Dipak Misra, J. [for himself and Ashok Bhushan, J.]

The cold evening of Delhi on 16th December, 2012 could not have even
remotely planted the feeling in the twenty-three year old lady, a para-
medical student, who had gone with her friend to watch a film at PVR Select
City Walk Mall, Saket, that in the next few hours, the shattering cold
night that was gradually stepping in would bring with it the devastating
hour of darkness when she, alongwith her friend, would get into a bus at
Munirka bus stand to be dropped at a particular place; and possibly could
not have imagined that she would be a prey to the savage lust of a gang of
six, face brutal assault and become a playful thing that could be tossed
around at their wild whim and her private parts would be ruptured to give
vent to their pervert sexual appetite, unthinkable and sadistic pleasure.
What the victims had not conceived of, it all happened, as the chronology
of events would unroll. The attitude, perception, the beastial proclivity,
inconceivable self-obsession and individual centralism of the six made the
young lady to suffer immense trauma and, in the ultimate eventuate, the
life-spark that moves the bodily frame got extinguished in spite of
availing of all the possible treatment that the medical world could
provide. The death took place at a hospital in Singapore where she had
been taken to with the hope that her life could be saved. 2. The friend of the girl survived in spite of being thrown outside the
bus along with the girl and the attempt of the accused-appellants to run
over them became futile as they, by their slight movement, could escape
from being crushed under the bus, and the appellants left them thinking
that they were no more alive. Lying naked, as the clothes were removed from
their bodies, they shouted for help and as good fortune would have it, the
night patrolling vehicle, a motor cycle, arrived and the said man, Raj
Kumar, PW-72, gave the shirt to the boy and contacted the control room from
which a Bolero patrol van came and they brought a bed sheet and tore it
into two parts and gave a piece to each of the victims so that they could
cover themselves and feel civil. The PCR van took the victims to the
Safdarjung Hospital where treatment commenced. 3. The present case is one where there can be no denial that the
narrative is long, the investigation has been cautious and to bring home
the charge, modern and progressive scientific methods have been adopted.
Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondent-State, has
made indefatigable endeavour to project that the investigation is flawless
and exemplary; and Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel for
the appellants, have severely criticized it as faulty on many a score and
that it is completely biased; and Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned senior
counsel, the friend of the Court, in his own way, has highlighted that the
investigation is not only flawed but also unreliable which deserves
chastisement and warrants rejection. Many facets of the investigation that
pertain to recording of dying declaration, recording of statements of
witnesses under Section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure ( CrPC ), the
medical examination, holding of the test identification parade, the manner
and method of search and seizure and the procedure of arrest have been
seriously commented upon. That apart, criticism is advanced from many a
spectrum to strengthen the stance that it does not meet the standard and
test determined by law. Needless to say, the factual score and the
investigation have to withstand the test of reliability and acceptability.
The appreciation of evidence brought on record requires to be appositely
scrutinized to adjudge the fact whether the appellants are guilty of their
culpability or there has been public pressure, as alleged, to falsely
implicate the appellants or to treat them as guinea pigs to save others and
accept the hypothesis that the prosecution has booked them at the instance
of some political executives or to save a situation which a disturbed
society perceives as a collective catastrophe on the paradigm of social
stability and to sustain its faith in the investigation to keep the precept
of rule of law alive. In essence, the submission is that the whole
exercise, namely, investigation and trial, has been carried out with the
sole purpose for the survival of the prosecuting agency. We have stated in
the beginning that Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh appearing for the appellants
commenced their submission with all the vehemence and sensitivity at their
command to strike at the root of the prosecution branding it as suspicious,
absolutely unreliable, apathetic to the concept of individual dignity and
engaged in maladroit effort to book the vulnerable and the innocent so as
to disguise and cover their inefficiency to catch the real culprits. In
the course of our deliberation, we shall dwell upon the same and keenly
scrutinize the justifiability of the aforesaid criticism. The Prosecution Narrative 4. Presently, we shall advert to the exposition of facts. The
prosecution case, as projected, is that on 16.12.2012, the deceased,
‘Nirbhaya’ (not her real name), had gone with her friend, the informant, PW-
1, to the PVR situated in Select City Walk Mall, Saket to watch a movie.
After the show was over, about 8:30 p.m., they took an auto and reached
Munirka bus stand wherefrom they boarded a white coloured chartered bus [DL-
1P-C-0149, Ext.P1] which was bound to Dwarka/Palam Road, as a boy in the
bus was calling for commuters for the said destination. As per the version
of the informant, PW-1, the friend of the prosecutrix, the bus had yellow
and green lines/stripes and the word “Yadav” was written on it. After both
of them had entered the bus, they noticed that six persons were already
inside the bus, four in the cabin of the driver and two behind the driver’s
cabin. The deceased and the informant sat on the left side in the row of
two-seaters and paid the fare of twenty rupees as demanded. Before they
could get the feeling of a safe journey (though not a time-consuming
journey), a feeling of lonely suffocation and a sense of danger barged in,
for the accused persons did not allow anyone else to board and the bus
moved and the lights inside the bus were put off. With the lights being put
off, the darkness and the fear of the unexpected darkness ruled. A few
minutes later, three persons (who have been identified as accused Ram
Singh, Akshay and a young boy, who has been treated as a juvenile in
conflict with law) came out of the driver’s cabin and started to abuse PW- 1. The young companion of the deceased raised opposition to the abuse that
led to an altercation which invited the other two who were sitting outside
the driver’s cabin to join. The spirit to oppose and the duty to save the
prosecutrix had to die down and perilously succumb to the assault by the
accused persons with the iron rods that caused injuries to his head, both
the legs and other parts of the body and the consequence was that he fell
on the floor of the bus to hear the painful cries of the lady who, he knew,
was being treated as an object, an article for experimentation and prey to
the pervert proclivity of the six but could do nothing except to hear
unbearable cries made in agony and pain. His spirit was dead, and bound to. 5. As the prosecution story further unfurls, the two accused persons,
namely, Pawan and Vinay, pinned the young man down and robbed the victims
of their mobiles besides robbing the informant of his purse carrying a Citi
Bank credit card, ICICI Bank Debit Card, his identity card issued by his
employer-company, metro card, a sum of rupees one thousand, his Titan
Watch, a golden ring studded with jewels and a silver ring studded with
pearl, black colour Hush Puppies shoes, black colour Numero Uno jeans, a
grey colour pullover and a brown colour blazer. As per the version of the
prosecution, PW-1 was carrying two mobiles and the prosecutrix was carrying
only one, and the accused snatched away all the three mobiles. 6. The overpowering was not meant to satisfy the avarice. As the
accusations proceed, after the informant was overpowered, as it could only
have a singular result, the accused persons, namely, Ram Singh, Akshay and
the Juvenile in Conflict with Law (JCL) took the prosecutrix to the rear
side of the bus and she was raped by them, one after the other. 7. After committing rape, the accused Ram Singh (since deceased),
accused Akshay and the JCL came towards the informant, PW-1, and nailed him
down; then the accused Vinay and accused Pawan went to the rear side of the
bus and committed rape on the prosecutrix, one by one. PW-1 noticed that
earlier the bus was moving at fast speed but after sometime, he felt that
the speed of the bus was reduced and he saw that the accused Mukesh, who
was driving the bus, came near him and hit him with the rod and he also
went to the rear side of the bus and raped the prosecutrix. The
prosecutrix was brutally gang raped by the accused one after the other and
she was also subjected to unnatural sex. Her private parts and her
internal organs were seriously injured by inserting iron rod and hand in
the rectal and vaginal region. As per PW-1, he had heard the cries of the
prosecutrix like “chod do, bachao”. PW-1 could hear the prosecutrix
shouting in a loud oscillating voice. The prosecutrix was carrying a grey
colour purse having an Axis Bank ATM card and other belongings. The accused
persons robbed her of her belongings and stripped her. They also took away
the clothes of the informant while beating him with iron rods. The accused
were exhorting that both the victims be not left alive. The accused then
tried to throw both the informant and the prosecutrix out of the moving bus
from its rear door but could not open it and so, they brought them to the
front door and threw them out of the moving bus at National Highway No. 8,
Hotel Delhi 37, Mahipalpur flyover by the side of the road. 8. As indicated earlier, the prosecutrix and PW-1 were noticed by PW-72,
Raj Kumar, who heard the voice of ‘bachao, bachao’ from the left side of
the road near a milestone opposite to Hotel Delhi 37. PW-72 saw PW-1 and
the prosecutrix sitting naked having blood all around. Immediately
thereafter, PW-72, Raj Kumar, informed PW-70, Ram Pal, who was in the
Control Room, requesting him to call PCR. PW-70, Ram Pal, of EGIS Infra
Management India (P) Limited, dialed 100 No. and even asked his other
patrolling staff to reach the spot. 9. About 10:24 p.m., PW-73, H.C. Ram Chander, who was in charge of PCR
van Zebra 54, received information about the incident and the lying of
victims in a naked condition near the foot of Mahipalpur fly over towards
Dhaula Kuan opposite GMR Gate. PW-73 reached the spot and found the
victims. He got the crowd dispersed and brought a bottle of water and a
bedsheet from the nearby hotel and tore the same into two parts and gave it
to both the victims to cover themselves. Travel to the Safdarjung Hospital 10. About 11:00 p.m., PW-73 took the victims to Safdarjung Hospital, New
Delhi. On the way to the hospital, the victims gave their names to him and
informed that they had boarded a bus from Munirka and that after some time
the occupants had started misbehaving and had beaten the boy and taken the
girl (prosecutrix) to the rear side of the bus and committed rape on her.
Thereafter, they had taken off the clothes of the victims and thrown them
naked on the road. While leaving the informant, PW-1, in the casualty
where he was examined by PW-51, Dr. Sachin Bajaj, and his MLC, Ext. PW-
51/A, was drawn up, PW-73 took the prosecutrix to the Gynae ward and got
her admitted there. The MLC of the prosecutrix,PW- 49/B, was prepared by
PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja. 11. PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, recorded the history of the incident as told
to her by the prosecutrix and noted the same in Exhibit PW-49/A. As per
the version narrated by the prosecutrix to her, it was a case of gang rape
in a moving bus by 4-5 persons when the prosecutrix was returning after
watching a movie with the informant. She was slapped on her face, kicked
on her abdomen and bitten over lips, cheek, breast and vulval region. The
prosecutrix remembered intercourse two times and rectal penetration also.
She was also forced to have unnatural oral sex but she refused. All this
continued for half an hour and then she was thrown off from the moving bus
along with her friend. 12. The following external injuries were noted by Dr. Rashmi Ahuja in Ex.
PW-49/A: 13. As the evidence brought on record would show, 20 samples of the
prosecutrix were taken and sealed with the seal of the hospital and handed
over to PW-59, Inspector Raj Kumari. Registration of FIR and the progress thereon 14. At this juncture, it is necessary to state that after the victims
were rescued, the informant, PW-1, Awninder Pratap, gave his first
statement to the police at 3:45 a.m. on 17.12.2012 which culminated into
the recording of the FIR at 5:40 a.m. being FIR No. 413/2012 dated
17.12.2012, PS Vasant Vihar under Section 120B IPC and Sections
365 / 366 / 376(2)(g) / 377 / 307 / 302 IPC and/or Sections 396 / 395 IPC read with Sections 397 / 201 / 412 IPC. It was thereafter handed over to S.I. Pratibha
Sharma, PW-80, for investigation. 15. On the same night, i.e., 16/17.12.2012, the prosecutrix underwent
first surgery around 4:00 a.m. The prosecutrix was operated by PW-50, Dr.
Raj Kumar Chejara, Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi and his surgery team
comprised of Dr. Gaurav and Dr. Piyush. OT notes have been exhibited as
Ex.PW-50/A and Ex.PW-50/B. The second and third surgeries were performed
on 19.12.2012 and 23.12.2012 respectively. 16. During the period the prosecutrix was undergoing surgeries one after
the other, and when all were concerned about her progress of recovery, the
prosecution was carrying out its investigation in a manner that it thought
systematic. The first and foremost responsibility of the prosecution was to
find out, on the basis of the information given, about the accused persons.
That is how the prosecution story uncurtains. 17. On 17.12.2012, supplementary statements of PW-1 were recorded by PW-
80, SI Pratibha Sharma. Based on the description of the bus given by PW-1,
the offending bus bearing No. DL-1PC-0149 was found parked in Ravi Das
Jhuggi Camp, R.K. Puram, New Delhi. PW-80 along with PW-74, SI Subhash
Chand, and PW-65, Ct. Kripal Singh, went to the spot and found accused Ram
Singh sitting in the bus. On seeing the police, Ram Singh got down from
the bus and started running. The police intercepted Ram Singh and he was
arrested and interrogated. 18. Personal search was conducted on Ram Singh and his disclosure
statement, Ex. P-74/F, was recorded by PW-74 and his team. Based on his
disclosure statement, PW-74, Investigating Officer, SI Subhash Chand,
seized the bus, Ex. P1, vide Seizure Memo Ex. PW- 74/K. PW-74 seized the
seat cover of the bus of red colour and its curtains of yellow colour. On
the bus, ‘Yadav’ was found written on its body with green and yellow
stripes on it. The Investigating Officer also seized the key of the bus,
Ex. P-74/2, vide Seizure Memo Ex. PW-74/J. The documents of the bus were
also seized. The disclosure statement of Ram Singh, Ex. PW-74/F, led to
the recovery of his bloodstained clothes, iron rods and debit card of Asha
Devi, the mother of the prosecutrix. PW-74, Investigating Officer, also
recovered ashes and the partly unburnt clothes lying near the bus which was
seized vide Memo Exhibit No. PW-74/M and Unix Mobile Phone with MTNL Sim,
Ex. P-74/5, vide Memo Ex. P/74E. The Investigating Officer prepared the
site plan of the place where the bus was parked and from where the ashes
were found. The arrest of the accused persons and seizure of articles 19. The arrest of accused, Ram Singh, also led to the arrest of two other
accused persons, namely, accused Vinay Sharma and accused Pawan @ Kaalu. On
18.12.2012, accused Mukesh was apprehended from village Karoli by PW-58, SI
Arvind Kumar, and was produced before PW-80, SI Pratibha Sharma. At the
instance of accused Mukesh Singh, a Samsung Galaxy Trend DUOS Blue Black
mobile belonging to the informant was recovered. On 23.12.2012, at his
instance, PW-80 prepared the route chart of the route where Mukesh drove
the bus at the time of the incident, Ex PW-80/H. Besides that, he got
recovered his bloodstained clothes from the garage of his brother at Anupam
Apartment, Saidulajab, Saket, New Delhi. He opted to undergo Test
Identification Parade. In the Test Identification Parade conducted by PW-
17, Sandeep Garg, Metropolitan Magistrate, PW-1, identified accused-Mukesh. 20. Accused Pawan was apprehended and arrested about 1:15 p.m. on
18.12.2012 vide memo Ex.PW-60/A; his disclosure, Ex.PW-60/G, was recorded
and his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW-60/C. In his
disclosure statement, Pawan pointed out Munirka bus stand where the
prosecutrix and PW-1 boarded the bus and memo Ex.PW-68/I was prepared. He
also pointed at the spot where PW-1 and the prosecutrix were thrown out of
the bus and memo Ex.PW-68/J was prepared in this regard. 21. Accused Vinay Sharma got recovered his bloodstained clothes, PW-1’s
Hush Puppies leather shoes and the prosecutrix’s mobile phone, Nokia Model
3110 of black grey colour. Further recoveries were made pursuant to his
supplementary disclosure. Similarly, accused Pawan Kumar got recovered from
his jhuggi his bloodstained clothes, shoes and also a wrist watch make
Sonata and Rs. 1000/- robbed from PW-1. 22. On 21.12.2012, accused Akshay was also arrested from Village
Karmalahang, PS Tandwa, Aurangabad, Bihar. His disclosure statement was
recorded. He led to his brother’s house in village Naharpur, Gurgaon,
Haryana and got recovered his bloodstained clothes. A ring belonging to PW-
1, two metro cards and a Nokia phone with SIM of Vodafone Company was also
recovered from Akshay. Akshay also opted to undergo TIP and was positively
identified by PW-1. The mobile phones of the accused persons were seized
and call details records with requisite certificates under Section 65-B of
Indian Evidence Act were obtained by the police. 23. After getting arrested, all the accused were medically examined. The
MLCs of all the accused persons show various injuries on their person;
viz., in the MLC, Ex.PW-2/A, of accused Ram Singh, PW-2, Dr. Akhilesh Raj,
has opined that the injuries mentioned at point Q to P-1 could possibly be
struggle marks. Similar opinions were received in respect of other accused
persons. PW-7, Dr. Shashank Pooniya, has opined that the injuries present
on the body of accused Akshay were a week old and were suggestive of
struggle as per MLC, Ex.PW-7/A. MLC, Ex.PW-7/B, pertaining to accused Pawan
shows that he had suffered injuries on his body which were simple in
nature. The MLC, Ex.PW-7/C, of accused Vinay Sharma proved that he too
suffered injuries, simple in nature, 2 to 3 days old, though injury No. 8
was claimed to be self inflicted by the accused himself. Further treatment of the victim and filing of chargesheet 24. While the arrest took place, as indicated earlier, the victim
underwent second and third surgeries on 19.12.2012 and 23.12.2012
respectively. The second surgery was performed on the prosecutrix on
19.12.2012 by PW-50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, along with his operating
team consisting of Prof. Sunil Kumar, Dr. Pintu and Dr.
Siddharth. Dr. Aruna Batra and Dr. Rekha Bharti were present along with the
anaesthetic team. The clinical notes, Ex.PW-50/C, and notes prepared by the
Gynaecology team, Ex.PW-50/D, can be referred to in this regard. The
prosecutrix was re-operated on 23.12.2012 for peritoneal lavage and
placement of drain under general anaesthesia and the notes are exhibited as
Ex.PW-50/E. 25. As the condition of the prosecutrix did not improve much, the
prosecution thought it appropriate to record the statements of the
prosecutrix. The said statements have been conferred the status of dying
declaration. As is noticeable from the evidence, PW-49 also deposed that
certain exhibits were collected for examination such as outer clothes,
i.e., sweater, sheet covering the patient; inner clothes, i.e., Sameej
torned; dust; grass present in hairs, dust in clothes; debris from in
between fingers; debris from nails; nail clippings; nail scrapings; breast
swab; body fluid collection (swab from saliva); combing of pubic hair;
matted pubic hair, clipping of pubic hair; cervical mucus collection;
vaginal secretions; vaginal culture; washing from vaginal; rectal swab;
oral swab; urine and oxalate blood vial; blood samples, etc. 26. On 21.12.2012, on being declared fit, the second dying declaration
was recorded by PW-27, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, Sub-Divisional Magistrate.
This dying declaration is an elaborate one where the prosecutrix has
described the incident in detail including the insertion of rods in her
private parts. She also stated that the accused were addressing each other
with names like, “Ram Singh, Thakur, Raju, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay”. 27. On 25th December, 2012, at 1:00 p.m., PW-30, Shri Pawan Kumar,
Metropolitan Magistrate, went to the hospital to record the dying
declaration of the prosecutrix. The attending doctors opined that the
prosecutrix was not in a position to speak but she was otherwise conscious
and responded by way of gestures. Accordingly, PW-30 put questions in such
a manner as to enable her to narrate the incident by way of gestures or
writing. Her statement, Ex.PW-30/D, was recorded by PW-30
in the form of dying declaration by putting her questions in the nature
of multiple choice questions. The prosecutrix gave her statement/dying
declaration through gestures and writings, Exhibit PW-30/D, the contents of
which will be discussed later. 28. At this juncture, the cure looked quite distant. The health
condition was examined on 26th December 2012 by a team of doctors
comprising of Dr. Sandeep Bansal, Cardiologist, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, Dr.
Sunil Kumar, Dr. Arun Batra and Dr. P.K. Verma and since the condition of
the prosecutrix was critical, it was decided that she be shifted abroad for
further treatment and fostering oasis of hope on 27th December, 2012, she
was shifted to Mt. Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore, for her further
treatment. The hope and expiration became a visible mirage as the
prosecutrix died on 29th December, 2012 at Mt. Elizabeth Hospital,
Singapore. Dr. Paul Chui, PW-34, Forensic Pathologist, Health Sciences
Authority, Singapore, deposed that her exact time of death was 4:45 a.m. on
29th December, 2012. The death occurred at Mt. Elizabeth Hospital and the
cause of her death was sepsis with multiple organ failure following
multiple injuries. The original post mortem report is Ex. PW-34/A and its
scanned copy is Ex.PW-34/B; the Toxicology Report dated 4th January, 2013
is Exhibit PW-34/C. In the post-mortem report, Ex.PW-34/A, besides other
serious injuries, various bite marks have been observed on her face, lips,
jaw, rear ear, on the right and left breasts, left upper arm, right lower
limb, right upper inner thigh (groin), right lower thigh, left thigh
lateral and left leg lower anterior. 29. It is apt to note here that during the course of investigation
(keeping in mind that the vehicle was identified), the investigating agency
went around to collect the electronic evidence. A CCTV footage produced by
PW-25, Rajender Singh Bisht, in a CD, Ex.PW-25/C-1 and PW-25/C-2, and the
photographs, Ex.PW-25/B-1 to Ex.PW-25/B-7, were collected from the Mall,
Select City Walk, Saket to ascertain the presence of PW-1 and the
prosecutrix at the Mall. The certificate under Section 65-B of the Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, “ Evidence Act ”) with respect to the said
footage is proved by PW-26, Shri Sandeep Singh, vide Ex.PW-26/A. Another
important evidence is the CCTV footage of Hotel Delhi 37 situated near the
dumping spot. The said footage showed a bus matching the description given
by the informant at 9:34 p.m. and again at 9:53 p.m. The said bus had the
word “Yadav” written on one side. Its exterior was of white colour having
yellow and green stripes and its front tyre on the left side did not have a
wheel cap. The description of the bus was affirmed by PW-1’s statement.
The CCTV footage stored in the pen drive, Ex.P-67/1, and the CD, Ex.P-67/2,
were seized by the I.O. vide seizure memo Ex.PW-67/A from PW-67, Pramod
Kumar Jha, the owner of Hotel Delhi 37. The same were identified by PW-67,
Pramod Jha, PW-74, SI Subhash, and PW-76, Gautam Roy, from CFSL during
their examination in Court. PW-78, SHO, Inspector Anil Sharma, had
testified that the said CCTV footage seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW-67/A
was sent to the CFSL through S.I. Sushil Sawaria and PW-77, the MHC(M).
Thereafter, on 01.01.2013, the report of the CFSL was received. 30. As the prosecution story would further undrape, in the course of
investigation, the test identification parade was carried out. We shall
advert to the same at a later stage. 31. We had indicated in the beginning that the investigating team had
taken aid of modern methods to strengthen its case. The process
undertaken, the method adopted and the results are severely criticized by
the learned counsel for the appellants to which we shall later on revert to
but presently to the steps taken by the investigating agency during
investigation. With the intention to cover the case from all possible
spheres and to establish the allegations with the proof of conclusivity and
not to give any chance of doubt, the prosecution thought that it was its
primary duty to ascertain the identity of the accused persons; and for the
said purpose, it carried out DNA analysis and fingerprint and bite mark
analysis. Collection of samples and identity of accused persons 32. The blood sample of the informant was collected by Dr. Kamran Faisal,
PW-15, Safdarjung Hospital, on 25.12.2012 and was handed over to SI
Pratibha Sharma, PW-80, vide seizure memo Ex.PW-15/A by Constable Suresh
Kumar, PW-42. Similarly, as mentioned earlier, PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, had
collected certain samples from the person of the prosecutrix which are
reflected in Ex.PW-49/A from point B to B. All the samples were collected
by Inspector Raj Kumari, PW-59, vide seizure memo Ex.PW-59/A and were
handed over to PW-80, SI Pratibha Sharma, at Safdarjung Hospital in the
morning of 17.12.2012. Also the samples of gangrenous bowels of the
prosecutrix were taken on 24.12.2012 and were handed over to SI Gajender
Singh, PW-55, who seized the same vide seizure memo Ex.PW-11/A. All the
samples were deposited with the MHC(M) and were not tampered with in any
manner. A specimen of scalp hair of the prosecutrix was also taken on
24.12.2012 by Dr. Ranju Gandhi, PW-29, and was handed over to PW- 80, SI
Pratibha Sharma, vide seizure memo Ex.PW-29/A. 33. The accused were also subjected to medical examination and samples
were taken from their person which were sent for DNA analysis. 34. DNA analysis was done at the behest of PW-45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, Sr.
Scientific Officer, Biology, CFSL, CBI, and Biological Examination and DNA
profiling reports were prepared which are exhibited as Ex. PW-45/A-C. The
report, after analysing the DNA profiles generated from the known samples
of the prosecutrix, the informant, and each of the accused, concluded that: 35. On 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012, a team of experts from the CFSL went to
Thyagraj Stadium and lifted chance prints from the bus in question, Ex.P-1.
On 28.12.2012, PW-78, Inspector Anil Sharma of P.S. Vasant Vihar, the then
S.H.O. of Police Station Vasant Vihar, requested the Director, CFSL, for
taking digital palm prints and foot prints of all the accused persons vide
his letter Ex.PW-46/C. Pursuant to the said request made by PW-78,
Inspector Anil Sharma, the CFSL, on 31.12.2012, took the finger/palm prints
and foot prints of the accused persons at Tihar Jail. After comparing the
chance prints lifted from the bus with the finger prints/palm prints and
foot prints of all the accused persons, PW-46, Shri A.D. Shah, Senior
Scientific Officer (Finger Prints), CFSL, CBI submitted his report Ex.PW-
46/D. In the report, the chance prints of accused Vinay Sharma were found
to have matched with those on the bus in question. 36. Bite mark analysis was also undertaken by the investigative team to
establish the identity and involvement of the accused persons. PW-66,
Asghar Hussain, on the instructions of the I.O., S.I. Pratibha Sharma, had
taken 10 photographs of different parts of the body of the prosecutrix at
SJ Hospital on 20.12.2012 between 4:30 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. which were marked
as Ex.PW-66/B (Colly.) [10 photographs of 5” x 7” each] and Ex.PW-66/C
(Colly.) [10 photographs of 8” x 12” each]. PW-66 also proved in Court the
certificate provided by him in terms of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act in
respect of the photographs, Ex. PW-66/A. Thereafter, PW-18, SI Vishal
Choudhary, collected the photographs and the dental models from Safdarjung
Hospital on 01.01.2013 and duly deposited the same in the malkhana after
he, PW-18, had handed them over to the S.H.O. Anil Sharma, PW-78. The same
were later entrusted to S.I. Vishal Choudhary, PW-18 on 02.01.2013, which
is proved vide RC No.183/21/12 and exhibited as Ex.PW-77/V. PW-71, Dr.
Ashith B. Acharya, submitted the final report in this regard which is
exhibited as Ex. PW-71/C. In the said report, he has concluded that at
least three bite marks were caused by accused Ram Singh whereas one bite
mark has been identified to have been most likely caused by accused Akshay. 37. It is seemly to note here that on completion of the investigation,
the chargesheet came to be filed on 03.01.2013 under Section
365 / 376(2)(g) / 377 / 307 / 395 / 397 / 302 / 396 / 412 / 201 / 120 / 34 IPC and supplementary
chargesheet was filed on 04.02.2013. Charge and examination of witnesses, conviction and awarding of sentence by
the trial court 38. After the case was committed to the Court of Session, all the accused
were charged for the following offences: During the course of trial, accused Ram Singh committed suicide and
the proceedings qua him stood abated vide order dated 12.10.2013. 39. It is worthy to mention here that in order to bring home the charge,
the prosecution initially examined 82 witnesses and thereafter, the
statements of the accused persons were recorded and they abjured their
guilt. Accused Pawan Gupta @ Kaalu examined Lal Chand, DW-1, Heera
Lal, DW-2, Ram Charan, DW-3, Gyan Chand, DW-4, and Hari Kishan Sharma, DW-
16, in support of his plea. Accused Vinay Sharma examined Smt. Champa Devi,
DW-5, Hari Ram Sharma, DW-6, Kishore Kumar Bhat, DW-7, Sri Kant, DW-
8, Manu Sharma, DW-9, Ram Babu, DW-10, and Dinesh, DW-17, to establish his
stand. Accused Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur examined Chavinder, DW-
11, Sarju Singh, DW-12, Raj Mohan Singh, DW-13, Punita Devi, DW-14, and
Sarita Devi, DW-15. As the factual matrix would reveal, subsequently three
more prosecution witnesses were examined and on behalf of the defence, two
witnesses were examined. 40. Learned Sessions Judge, vide judgment dated 10.09.2013, convicted all
the accused persons, namely, Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur, Vinay Sharma,
Mukesh and Pawan Gupta @ Kaalu under Section 120B IPC for the offence of
criminal conspiracy; under Section 365 / 366 IPC read with Section 120B IPC
for abducting the victims with an intention to force the prosecutrix to
illicit intercourse; under Section 307 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for
attempting to kill PW-1, the informant; under Section 376(2)(g) IPC for
committing gang rape with the prosecutrix in pursuance of their conspiracy;
under Section 377 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for committing unnatural
offence with the prosecutrix; under Section 302 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for committing murder of the helpless prosecutrix; under Section 395 IPC for conjointly committing dacoity in pursuance of the aforesaid
conspiracy; under Section 397 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for the use of
iron rods and for attempting to kill PW-1 at the time of committing
robbery; under Section 201 IPC read with Section 120B IPC for destroying of
evidence and under Section 412 IPC for the offence of being individually
found in possession of the stolen property which they all knew was a stolen
booty of dacoity committed by them. 41. After recording the conviction, as aforesaid, the learned trial Judge
imposed the sentence, which we reproduce: In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such
convict; (e) for the offence under Section 376(2)(g) IPC I award the punishment of
life imprisonment to each of the convict person with fine of Rs.5000/- to
each of them. In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one
month to such convict; (f) for the offence under Section 377 IPC I award the punishment of ten
years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs.5000/- to each of them.
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such
convict; (g) for the offence under Section 307 IPC I award the punishment of seven
years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs.5000/- to each of them.
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such
convict; (h) for the offence under Section 201 IPC I award the punishment of seven
years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs.5000/- to each of them.
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such
convict; (i) for the offence under Section 395 read with Section 397 IPC I award
the punishment of ten years to each of the convict person and fine of
Rs.5000/- to each of them. In default of payment of fine simple
imprisonment for one month to such convict; (j) for the offence under Section 412 IPC I award the punishment of ten
years to each of the convict person and fine of Rs.5000/- to each of them.
In default of payment of fine simple imprisonment for one month to such
convict;” 42. Be it noted, the learned trial Judge directed the sentences under Sections 120B / 365 / 366 / 376(2)(g) / 377 / 201 / 395 / 397 / 412 IPC to run
concurrently and that the benefit under Section 428 CrPC would be given
wherever applicable. He further recommended that appropriate compensation
under Section 357A CrPC be awarded to the legal heirs of the prosecutrix
and, accordingly, sent a copy of the order to the Secretary, Delhi Legal
Services Authority, New Delhi, for deciding the quantum of compensation to
be awarded under the scheme referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 357A CrPC. That apart, as death penalty was imposed, he referred the matter to
the High Court for confirmation under Section 366 CrPC. The view of the High court 43. The High Court, vide judgment dated 13.03.2014, affirmed the
conviction and confirmed the death penalty imposed upon the accused by
expressing the opinion that under the facts and circumstances of the case,
imposition of death penalty awarded by the trial court deserved to be
confirmed in respect of all the four convicts. As the death penalty was
confirmed, the appeals preferred by the accused faced the inevitable
result, that is, dismissal. Commencement of hearing and delineation of contentions 44. As we had stated earlier, the grievance relating to the lodging of
FIR and the manner in which it has been registered has been seriously
commented upon and criticized by the learned counsel for the appellants.
Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants - Mukesh and Pawan Kumar
Gupta, and Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants – Vinay Sharma and
Akshay Kumar Singh, have stressed with all the conviction at their command
that when a matter of confirmation of death penalty is assailed before this
Court, it is the duty of this Court to see every aspect in detail and not
to treat it as an ordinary appeal. 45. As the argument commenced with the said note, we thought it
appropriate to grant liberty to the learned counsel for the appellants to
challenge the conviction and the imposition of death sentence from all
aspects and counts and to dissect the evidence and project the
irregularities in arrest and investigation. Learned counsel for the
parties argued the matter for considerable length of time and hence, we
shall deal with every aspect in detail. Delayed registration of FIR 46. The attack commences with the registration of FIR and, therefore, we
shall delve into the same in detail. PW-57, ASI Kapil Singh, the Duty
Officer at P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi, on the intervening night of
16/17.12.2012, received information about the incident. He lodged DD No.6-
A, Ex.PW-57/A, and passed on the said DD to PW-74, SI Subhash Chand, who
was on emergency duty that night at P.S. Vasant Vihar. Immediately
thereafter, PW-57, ASI Kapil Singh, received yet another information qua
admission of the prosecutrix and of the informant in Safdarjung Hospital
and he lodged DD No.7-A, Ex.PW-57/B, and also passed on the said DD to SI
Subhash Chand. 47. PW-74, SI Subhash Chand, then left for Safdarjung Hospital where he
met PW-59, Inspector Raj Kumari, and PW-62, SI Mahesh Bhargava. PW-59,
Inspector Raj Kumari, handed over to him the MLC and the exhibits
concerning the prosecutrix as given to her by the treating doctor and PW-
62, SI Mahesh Bhargava, handed over to him the MLC of the informant. PW-74,
SI Subhash Chand, then recorded the statement, Ex.PW-1/A, of the informant
at 1:30 a.m. on 17.12.2012 and made his endorsement, Ex.PW-74/A, on it and
he gave the rukka to PW-65, Ct. Kripal Singh, for being taken to P.S.
Vasant Vihar, New Delhi and to get the FIR registered. PW-65, Ct. Kripal
Singh, then went to P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi and at 5:40 a.m. and gave
the rukka to PW-57, ASI Kapil Singh, the Duty Officer, who, in turn,
recorded the FIR, Ex.PW-57/D, made endorsement, Ex.PW-57/E, on the rukka
and returned it to PW-65, Ct. Kripal Singh, who then handed it to
PW-80, SI Pratibha Sharma, at P.S. Vasant Vihar to whom the investigation
was entrusted. 48. SI Subhash Chand, PW-74, deposed that the statement of the informant
might have been recorded around 3:45 a.m. although PW-1 deposed that his
statement was recorded at 5:30 a.m. It was submitted that the original
statement was recorded by HC Ram Chander, PW-73, and the investigation
process had already begun around 1:15 a.m. and the subsequent information
from the informant which is stated to be the first information was, in
fact, crafted after the investigating agency decided on a course of action.
 It is submitted by the learned counsel for the appellants that the delay
in the FIR raises serious doubts. 49. Delay in setting the law into motion by lodging of complaint in court
or FIR at police station is normally viewed by courts with suspicion
because there is possibility of concoction of evidence against an accused.
Therefore, it becomes necessary for the prosecution to satisfactorily
explain the delay. Whether the delay is so long as to throw a cloud of
suspicion on the case of the prosecution would depend upon a variety of
factors. Even a long delay can be condoned if the informant has no motive
for implicating the accused. 50. In the present case, after the occurrence, the prosecutrix and PW-1
were admitted to the hospital at 11:05 p.m.; the victim was admitted in the
Gynaecology Ward and PW-1, the informant, in the casualty ward. PW-74, SI
Subhash Chand, recorded the statement of PW-1 at 3:45 a.m. After PW-1 and
the prosecutrix were taken to the hospital for treatment, the statement of
PW-1 was recorded by PW-74, SI Subhash Chand, at 1:37 a.m. and the same was
handed over to PW- 65, Constable Kripal Singh, to PW-57, Kapil Singh. In
the initial stages, the intention of all concerned must have been to save
the victim by giving her proper medical treatment. Even assuming for the
sake of argument that there is delay, the same is in consonance with
natural human conduct. 51. In this case, there is no delay in the registration of FIR. The
sequence of events are natural and in the present case, after the
occurrence, the victim and PW-1 were thrown out of the bus at Mahipalpur in
semi-naked condition and were rescued by PW-72, Raj Kumar, and PW-70, Ram
Pal, both EGIS Infra Management India (P) Limited employees. The victim was
seriously injured and was in a critical condition and it has to be treated
as a natural conduct that giving medical treatment to her was of prime
importance. The admission of PW-1 and the victim in the hospital and the
completion of procedure must have taken some time. PW-1 himself was
injured and was admitted to the hospital at 11:05 p.m. No delay can be said
to have been caused in examining PW-1, the informant. 52. In the context of belated FIR, we may usefully refer to certain
authorities in the field. In Ram Jag and others v. State of U.P. [1] , it
was held as that witnesses cannot be called upon to explain every hour’s
delay and a commonsense view has to be taken in ascertaining whether the
first information report was lodged after an undue delay so as to afford
enough scope for manipulating evidence. Whether the delay is so long as to
throw a cloud of suspicion on the seeds of the prosecution case must depend
upon a variety of factors which would vary from case to case. Even a long
delay in filing report of an occurrence can be condoned if the witnesses on
whose evidence the prosecution relies have no motive for implicating the
accused. On the other hand, prompt filing of the report is not an
unmistakable guarantee of the truthfulness of the version of the
prosecution.” 53. In State of Himachal Pradesh v. Rakesh Kumar [2], the Court repelled
the submission pertaining to delay in lodging of the FIR on the ground that
the first endeavour is always to take the person to the hospital
immediately so as to provide him medical treatment and only thereafter
report the incident to the police. The Court in the said case further held
that every minute was precious and, therefore, it is natural that the
witnesses accompanying the deceased first tried to take him to the hospital
so as to enable him to get immediate medical treatment. Such action was
definitely in accordance with normal human conduct and psychology. When
their efforts failed and the deceased died they immediately reported the
incident to the police. The Court, under the said circumstances ruled that
in fact, it was a case of quick reporting to the police. Judged on the anvil of the aforesaid decisions, we have no hesitation
in arriving at the conclusion that there was no delay in lodging of the
FIR. Non-mentioning of assailants in the FIR 54. An argument was advanced assailing the FIR to the effect that the FIR
does not contain: (i) the names of the assailants either in the MLC, Ex.PW-
51/A, or in the complaint, Ex.PW-1/A, (ii) the description of the bus and (iii) the use of iron rods. 55. As far as the argument that the FIR does not contain the names of all
the accused persons is concerned, it has to be kept in mind that it is
settled law that FIR is not an encyclopedia of facts and it is not expected
from a victim to give details of the incident either in the FIR or in the
brief history given to the doctors. FIR is not an encyclopedia which is
expected to contain all the details of the prosecution case; it may be
sufficient if the broad facts of the prosecution case alone appear. If any
overt act is attributed to a particular accused among the assailants, it
must be given greater assurance. In this context, reference to certain
authorities would be fruitful. 56. In Rattan Singh v. State of H.P. [3], the Court, while repelling the
submission for accepting the view of the trial court took note of the fact
that there had been omission of the details and observed that the criminal
courts should not be fastidious with mere omissions in the first
information statement since such statements can neither be expected to be a
chronicle of every detail of what happened nor expected to contain an
exhaustive catalogue of the events which took place. The person who
furnishes the first information to the authorities might be fresh with the
facts but he need not necessarily have the skill or ability to reproduce
details of the entire story without anything missing therefrom. Some may
miss even important details in a narration. Quite often, the police
officer, who takes down the first information, would record what the
informant conveys to him without resorting to any elicitatory exercise. It
is voluntary narrative of the informant without interrogation which usually
goes into such statement and hence, any omission therein has to be
considered along with the other evidence to determine whether the fact so
omitted never happened at all. The Court also referred to the principles
stated in Pedda Narayana v. State of A.P. [4]; Sone Lal v. State of U.P. [5]; Gurnam Kaur v. Bakshish Singh [6]. 57. In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Naresh and others [7], reiterating the
principle, the Court opined that it is settled legal proposition that FIR
is not an encyclopedia of the entire case. It may not and need not contain
all the details. Naming of the accused therein may be important but not
naming of the accused in FIR may not be a ground to doubt the contents
thereof in case the statement of the witness is found to be trustworthy.
The court has to determine after examining the entire factual scenario
whether a person has participated in the crime or has been falsely
implicated. The informant fully acquainted with the facts may lack
necessary skill or ability to reproduce details of the entire incident
without anything missing from the same. Some people may miss even the most
important details in narration. Therefore, in case the informant fails to
name a particular accused in the FIR, this ground alone cannot tilt the
balance of the case in favour of the accused. For the aforesaid purpose
reliance was placed upon Rotash v. State of Rajasthan [8] and Ranjit Singh
v. State of M.P. [9] 58. In Rotash (supra) this Court while dealing with the omission of
naming an accused in the FIR opined that: 59. While dealing with a similar issue in Animireddy Venkata Ramana v.
Public Prosecutor [10], the Court held as under: 60. In view of the aforesaid settled position of law, we are not disposed
to accept the contention that omission in the first statement of the
informant is fatal to the case. We are disposed to think so, for the
omission has to be considered in the backdrop of the entire factual
scenario, the materials brought on record and objective weighing of the
circumstances. The impact of the omission, as is discernible from the
authorities, has to be adjudged in the totality of the circumstances and
the veracity of the evidence. The involvement of the accused persons
cannot be determined solely on the basis of what has been mentioned in the
FIR. 61. In his statement recorded in the early hours of 17.12.2012, PW-1
stated about going to the Select City Walk Mall, Saket alongwith the
prosecutrix and boarding the bus. He has also stated about the presence of
four persons sitting in the cabin of the bus and two boys sitting behind
the cabin and clearly stated about the overt act. He has broadly made
reference to the accused persons and also to the overt acts. There are no
indications of fabrication in Ex.PW-1/A. 62. The victim and PW-1 were thrown out of the bus and after some time
they were admitted to the hospital. Both the injuries on PW-1’s person and
the gruesome acts against the victim must have put him in a traumatic
condition and it would not have been possible for him to recall and narrate
the entire incident to the police at one instance. It cannot be said that
merely because the names of the accused persons are not mentioned in the
FIR, it raises serious doubts about the prosecution case. Appreciation of the evidence of PW-1 63. Having dealt with the contention of delay in lodging of the FIR and
omission of names in the FIR on the basis of the first statement of PW-1,
we may now proceed to appreciate the evidentiary value to be attached to
the testimony of PW-1 and the contentions advanced in this regard. 64. As per the evidence of PW-1, he alongwith the prosecutrix, on the
fateful day about 3:30 p.m., took an auto from Dwarka, New Delhi to Select
City Walk Mall, Saket, New Delhi, where they watched a movie till about
8:30 p.m. and, thereafter, left the Mall. As they could not get an auto for
Dwarka, they hired an auto for Munirka intending to take a bus (route No. 764) thereon. About 9:00 p.m. when they reached Munirka bus stand they
boarded a white colour chartered bus and JCL was calling for commuters to
Dwarka/Palam Mod. While boarding the bus, PW-1 noted that the bus had
“Yadav” written on its side; had yellow and green lines/stripes; the entry
gate was ahead of its front left tyre; and its front tyre was without a
wheel cover. After boarding, he saw that besides the boy (JCL) who was
calling for passengers and the driver, two other persons were sitting in
the driver’s cabin and two persons were seated inside the bus on either
side of the aisle. After the bus left the Munirka bus stand, the lights
inside the bus were turned off. Then accused Ram Singh, accused Akshay
Thakur and the JCL (all three identified later) came towards PW-1 and
verbally and physically assaulted him. When PW-1 resisted them, accused
Vinay and accused Pawan were called along with iron rods and all the
accused persons started hitting PW-1 with the iron rods. When the
prosecutrix attempted to call for help, PW-1 and the prosecutrix were
robbed of their possessions. 65. PW-1 was immobilized by accused Vinay and accused Pawan Kumar; while
others, viz., accused Ram Singh, Akshay and the JCL took the prosecutrix to
the rear side of the bus whereafter PW-1 heard the prosecutrix shout out
“chod do, bachao” and her cry. After the above, three accused committed the
heinous act of raping the prosecutrix, accused Vinay and Pawan then went to
the rear side of the bus while the other three pinned down PW-1.
Thereafter, accused Mukesh (originally driving the bus) hit PW-1 with the
rod and went to the rear side of the bus. PW-1 also heard one of the
accused saying “mar gayee, mar gayee”. After the incident, PW-1 and the
prosecutrix were dragged to the front door (because the rear door was
jammed) and were pushed out of the moving bus opposite Hotel Delhi 37.
After being thrown outside, the bus was turned in such a manner as to crush
both of them but PW-1 pulled the prosecutrix and himself out of the reach
of the wheels of the bus and saved their lives. 66. The statement of the informant, PW-1, was recorded by PW-74 in the
early hours of 17.12.12 and Ex.PW-1/A is the complaint. In his chief
examination, PW-74 deposes that he had given the complaint (rukka) to Ct.
Kripal Singh and sent him to the police station at 5:10 a.m. which thereby
leaves the time of recording the informant’s statement inconclusive. Even
if the version of PW-74 was to be relied upon and the informant’s statement
had been recorded by 5:10 a.m., DD entry which forms Ex.PW-57/C records
that till 5:30 a.m., no punishable offence has been reported to have
occurred and information of well-being had been recorded despite the fact
that previous DD entries had been recorded on the basis of telephonic
conversations between police officers at the hospital, the scene of crime
and the control room (both DD entries 6A and 7A had been recorded on the
basis of phone conversations). The first supplementary statement was
recorded around 7:30 a.m., on 17.12.2012 specifically with respect to the
bus in question. In this statement, Ex. PW-80/D1, PW-1 merely gives a
generic description of the bus. However, unlike in Ex. PW-1/A, in his
supplementary statement, the informant states that the bus was white in
colour with stripes of yellow and green, that there were 3 x 2 seats and
that if he remembered anything else, he would reveal the same. At this
time, the investigating agency had neither seized the bus nor arrested the
accused; the statement of the informant is, therefore, silent on specific
details about the same. PW’s second supplementary statement, Ex.PW-80/D3,
was recorded around noon on 17.12.2012 in which the informant, for the
first time since the time of the incident, revealed details about the bus
in which the crime allegedly occurred (that there was the word “Yadav”
written on the side, that the front wheel cover was missing), and also
revealed the names of the accused (Ram Singh, one Thakur, one
Mukesh/Ramesh, Vinay and Pawan). 67. The learned amicus curiae, Mr. Hegde, submitted that at every stage,
PW-1 made improvement in his statements. It was submitted that when PW-1
was confronted with the omissions Ex.PW-1/A, Ex.PW-8/D1 and Ex. PW-80/D3,
he stated that he was unable to talk at the time of recording of his
statement due to injury to the tongue. It was submitted that as per Ex.PW-
51/A, he sustained only simple injury and it does not state that PW-1
suffered injury to his tongue. It was further contended that the process
of improving and embellishing the informant’s statement did not end with
recording his statement under Section 161 CrPC. On 19.12.2012, the
informant made a statement under Section 164 CrPC before the Metropolitan
Magistrate, Saket Courts. This statement is the most comprehensive and
contains details which had been discovered by the prosecution by then such
as the names of all the accused (including the name of the JCL for the
first time) and details from inside the bus (colour of the seats and
curtains). It was contended that the improved version of PW-1 renders his
evidence unreliable and merely because he is an injured witness, his
evidence cannot be accepted. 68. It is urged by Mr. Hegde, learned amicus curiae, that inconsistencies
and omissions amounting to contradiction in the testimony of PW-1 make him
an untrustworthy and unreliable witness. The inconsistencies pointed out
by the learned amicus curiae pertain to the number of assailants, the
description of the bus and the identity of the accused. As regards the
omission, it is contended by him that the said witness had not mentioned
about the alleged use of rod in the FIR. He has further submitted that
though he has stated that he had been assaulted by the iron rods as per his
subsequent statement, yet the said statement is wholly unacceptable since
he had sustained only simple injuries. 69. Mr. Hegde, in his further criticism of the evidence of
PW-1, has put forth that the effort of the prosecution had been to
highlight the consistencies instead of explaining the inconsistencies.
That apart, submits Mr. Hegde, that the witness has revealed the story step
by step including the gradual recognition of the identity of the accused in
tandem with the process of investigation and in such a situation, his
testimony has to be looked with suspicion. 70. Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants - Mukesh and Pawan
Kumar Gupta, and Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants – Vinay
Sharma and Akshay Kumar Singh, submit that the omissions in the statement
of PW-1 amount to contradictions in material particulars and such
contradictions go to the root of the case and, in fact, materially affect
the trial or the very case of the prosecution. Therefore, they submit that
the testimony of PW-1, who is treated as a star witness, is liable to be
discredited. Reliance has been placed on the authorities in State
Represented by Inspector of Police v. Saravanan & another [11], Arumugam v.
State Represented by Inspector of Police , Tamil Nadu [12], Mahendra Pratap
Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh[13] and Sunil Kumar Sambhudayal Gupta (Dr.)
and others v. State of Maharashtra [14]. 71. The authorities that have been commended by Mr.
Sharma need to be appositely understood. In Arumugam (supra), the Court
was dealing with the issue of acceptance of the version of interested
witnesses. It has referred to Dalip Singh v. State of Punjab[15], State of
Punjab v. Jagir Singh, Baljit Singh and Karam Singh[16], Lehna v. State of
Haryana[17], Gangadhar Behera and others v. State of Orissa[18] and State
of Rajasthan v. Kalki and another[19] and opined that while normal
discrepancies do not corrode the credibility of a party’s case, material
discrepancies do so. 72. In Saravanan (supra), reiterating the principle, the Court held: 73. In Mahendra Pratap Singh (supra), the Court referred to the authority
in Inder Singh and another v. State (Delhi Administration )[20] wherein it
has been held thus: 74. In Sunil Kumar Sambhudayal Gupta (supra), while dealing with the
issue of material contradictions, the Court held: 75. Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent-
State, on the other hand, has disputed the stand of the appellants as
regards the discrepancies in the statement of PW-1. According to him, the
evidence of PW-1 cannot be discarded on grounds which are quite specious.
The circumstances in entirety are to be appreciated. He has placed reliance
on the appreciation of the trial court and contended that the appreciation
and analysis are absolutely impeccable. The relied upon paragraph is as
follows: 76. The evidence of PW-1 is assailed contending that he is not a reliable
witness. During the cross-examination, his evidence was assailed contending
that Ex.PW-1/A is replete with contradictions and inconsistencies. Taking
us through the evidence, Mr. Singh has submitted that in his first
statement, Ex.PW-1/A, there were lot of omissions and contradictions and
the improvements in his subsequent statements render the evidence wholly
untrustworthy. The appellants, in an attempt to assail the credibility of
the testimony of PW-1, inter alia, raised the contentions: (i) Non-
disclosure of the use of iron rod and (ii) the names of the assailants in
the MLC in Ex. PW-51/A or in Ex.PW-1/A. However, the trial court held these
assertions as non-fatal to PW-1’s testimony: 77. The contentions assailing the evidence of PW-1 does not merit
acceptance, for at the time when he was first examined his friend (the
prosecutrix) was critically injured and he was in a shocked mental
condition. The evidence of a witness is not to be disbelieved simply
because he is a partisan witness or related to the prosecution. It is to
be weighed whether he was present or not and whether he is telling the
truth or not. 78. The informant, PW-1, in his deposition, has clearly spoken about the
occurrence and also corroborated his complaint, Ex.PW-1/A. The evidence of
PW-1 is unimpeachable in character and the roving cross-examination has not
eroded his credibility. It is necessary to mention here that PW-1 was
admitted in the casualty ward of Safdarjung Hospital. As he was injured, he
was medically examined by Dr. Sachin Bajaj, PW-51, and as per the evidence,
Ext.PW-51/A, the following injuries were found on his body: 79. The injuries found on the person of PW-1 and the fact that PW-1 was
injured in the same occurrence lends assurance to his testimony that he was
present at the time of the occurrence along with the prosecutrix. The
evidence of an injured witness is entitled to a greater weight and the
testimony of such a witness is considered to be beyond reproach and
reliable. Firm, cogent and convincing ground is required to discard the
evidence of an injured witness. It is to be kept in mind that the
evidentiary value of an injured witness carries great weight. In Mano Dutt
and another v. State of Uttar Pradesh [23], it was held as under: State of Punjab[36] where this Court reiterated the special evidentiary
status accorded to the testimony of an injured accused and relying on its
earlier judgments held as under: 80. As is manifest from the evidence, S.I. Pratibha Sharma, PW-80,
recorded the First Supplementary Statement under Section 161 CrPC of the
informant, PW-1, Awninder Pratap Singh about 7:30 a.m. on 17.12.2012.
Thereafter, PW-1, the informant, took PW-80, S.I. Pratibha Sharma, to the
spot from where he and the prosecutrix had boarded the bus. 81. Apart from the injuries sustained, the presence of PW-1 is further
confirmed by the DNA analysis of: 82. The trial court judgment was fortified by the decisions of this Court
in Pudhu Raja and another v. State Represented by Inspector of Police[40], Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana [41] and Akhtar and others v. State of
Uttaranchal [42] on the law of material omissions and contradictions.
Concurringly, the High Court too observed that the defence had failed to
demonstrate from the informant’s testimony such discrepancies, omissions
and improvements that would have caused the High Court to reject such
testimony after testing it on the anvil of the law laid down by this Court: 83. In this context, we may fruitfully reproduce a passage from State of
U.P. v. M.K. Anthony [43]: 84. In Harijana Thirupala v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of A.P.[44],
it has been ruled that: 85. In Ugar Ahir v. State of Bihar [45], a three-Judge Bench held: 86. In Krishna Mochi v. State of Bihar [46], the Court ruled that: 87. In Inder Singh (supra), Krishna Iyer, J. laid down that: 88. In the case of State of U.P. v. Anil Singh [47], it was held that a
Judge does not preside over a criminal trial merely to see that no innocent
man is punished. A Judge also presides to see that a guilty man does not
escape. One is as important as the other. Both are public duties which the
Judge has to perform. 89. In Mohan Singh and another v. State of M.P. [48], this Court has held: 90. Keeping the aforesaid aspects in view, we shall now proceed to test
the submission of the learned counsel for the appellants and the learned
amicus curiae on the issue whether the testimony of PW-1 deserves
acceptance being reliable or not. It is no doubt true that in the earlier
statement of PW-1, that is, Ex.PW-1/A, there are certain omissions; but the
main thing to be seen is whether the omissions go to the root of the matter
or pertain to insignificant aspects. The evidence of PW-1 is not to be
disbelieved simply because there were certain omissions. The trial Court
as well as the High Court found his evidence credible and trustworthy and
we find no reason to take a different view. 91. The case of the prosecution is attacked contending that PW-1 is a
planted witness and that he keeps on improving his version. It is
submitted that PW-1 is not reliable as had he been present at the time of
occurrence, he would have endeavoured to save the victim and the nature of
injuries as mentioned in Ex. PW-51/A on the person of PW-1 raises serious
doubt about his presence at the time of occurrence. 92. The prosecutrix and PW-1 were surrounded and attacked by at least six
accused persons. As narrated by PW-1, he was pinned down by two of the
assailants while the others committed rape on the prosecutrix on the rear
side of the bus. The accused persons were in a group and were also armed
with iron rods. PW-1 was held by them. It would not have been possible for
PW-1 to resist the number of accused persons and save the prosecutrix. The
evidence of PW-1 cannot be doubted on the ground that he had not interfered
with the occurrence. The improvements made in the supplementary statement
need not necessarily render PW-1’s evidence untrustworthy more so when PW-1
has no reason to falsely implicate the accused. 93. Learned counsel for the State has highlighted that the version of PW-
1 is absolutely consistent and the trial court as well as the High Court
has correctly relied upon his testimony. He has drawn our attention to the
version of PW-1 in the FIR, the statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC
and his testimony before the trial court. We have given anxious
consideration and perused the FIR, supplementary statements recorded under Section 164 CrPC and appreciated the evidence in court and we find that
there is no justification or warrant to treat the version of the witness as
inconsistent. The consistency is writ large and the witness, as we
perceive, is credible. 94. Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel, further contested the argument
advanced on behalf of the appellants as regards the discrepancies so far as
PW-1 is concerned. As regards the items stolen, it is recorded in the FIR
that the accused persons stole the informant’s Samsung Galaxy Mobile phone
bearing 7827917720 and 9540034561 and his wallet containing Rs.1000, ICICI
debit card, Citi Bank Credit Card, ID Card, one silver ring, one gold ring
and took off all his clothes, i.e., khakhi coloured blazer, grey sweater,
black jeans, black Hush Puppies shoes and they also stole the prosecutrix’s
mobile phone with number 9818358144. His statement recorded under Section
164 CrPC states that the accused snatched the Samsung Galaxy S-Duos Mobile,
one more mobile phone of Samsung, one purse with Rs. 1000, one Citibank
credit card, ICICI Debit Card, Company I-Card, Delhi Metro Card and also
snatched black jeans, one silver ring, one gold ring, Hush Puppies shoes.
They also snatched the prosecutrix’s Nokia mobile phone and grey colour
purse and both the wrist watches. Before the trial court, he deposed that
they snatched both the rings, shoes, purse containing cards and cash, socks
and belt; they took off all his clothes and left him in an underwear; the
accused had also taken off all the prosecutrix’s clothes and snatched all
her belongings including grey purse containing Axis bank card. PW-1 also
identified Hush Puppies shoes, Ex. P-2, Sonata watch, Ex. P-3, metro card,
Ex. P-5, Samsung Galaxy Duos, Ex. P-6, and currency notes, Ex. P-7. As
regards the weapon of assault, in the FIR and in the Section 164 statement,
“rod” was recorded as weapon of assault and in his testimony before the
trial court, PW-1 deposed that the weapon of assault was “iron rods”. So
far as throwing from the bus is concerned, it is recorded in the FIR that
the other accused persons told the driver to drive the bus at a fast speed
and then tried to throw the informant from the back door of the bus,
however, the back door of the bus did not open. Then they threw both the
informant and the prosecutrix from the moving bus near NH 8 Mahipalpur on
the side of the road. His statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC states
that the bus driver was driving the bus at a fast speed on being told by
the other accused and he heard them saying that the girl had died and to
throw her off the bus. They then took the informant and the prosecutrix to
the rear door of the bus but could not open the door and, therefore,
dragged them to the front door of the bus and threw them out. The bus
driver turned the bus in such a manner after throwing them, that if the
informant had not pulled the prosecutrix, then the bus would have run over
her. PW-1 has deposed before the trial court that he heard one of the
accused saying “mar gayee, mar gayee”; the accused were exhorting that the
informant and the prosecutrix should not be left alive; the accused persons
pulled the informant near the rear door and put the prosecutrix on him.
The rear door was closed, so they dragged both the informant and the
prosecutrix to the front door; they were thrown off opposite Hotel Delhi
37; after they were thrown, the accused persons turned the bus and tried to
crush them under the wheels. As regards the naming/description of the
accused, the FIR recorded that the accused were aged between 25-30 years;
one of them had a flat nose and was the youngest; one of them wore a red
banian and they were wearing pant and shirt; and the accused were named as
Ram Singh, Thakur, Mukesh, Vinay and Pawan. In the statement, it was
recorded that he saw a dark coloured man who was being called “Mukesh,
Mukesh”; he over-heard them calling each other as Ram Singh, Thakur; and
the other three were addressing each other Pawan and Vinay and taking the
name of JCL. In his testimony, it is recorded that he identified A-2,
Mukesh, as Driver, A-1, Ram Singh, and A-3, Akshay, as persons sitting in
the driver’s cabin and identified A-4, Vinay, and A-5, Pawan, as persons
sitting in the bus. 95. As regards the minor contradictions/omissions, the trial court has placed reliance upon Pudhu Raja (supra) and Jaswant Singh (supra) and
treated the version of PW-1 as reliable. The testimony of PW-1 has been placed reliance upon by both the Courts and on an anxious and careful
scrutiny of the same, we do not perceive any reason to differ with the said
view. 96. As we find, the trial court has come to the conclusion that the
incident has been aptly described by PW-1, the injured. The injuries on his
person do show that he was present in the bus at the time of the incident.
His presence is further confirmed by the DNA analysis. Suffice it to say
for the present, the contradictions in the statement, Ex.PW-1/A, are not
material enough to destroy the substratum of the prosecution case. From
the studied analysis of the evidence of PW-1, it is the only inevitable
conclusion because the appreciation is founded on yardstick of
consideration of totality of evidence and its intrinsic value on proper
assessment. Recovery of the bus and the CCTV footage 97. The endeavour of the prosecution was to first check the route and get
a clue of the bus. For the aforesaid purpose, the CCTV footage becomes
quite relevant. The story starts from the Select City Walk Mall, Saket and
hence, we have to start from there. As per the case of the prosecution, the
informant and the prosecutrix had gone to Select City Walk Mall, Saket to
see a film. The CCTV footage produced by PW-25, Rajender Singh Bisht, in a
CD, Ex.PW-25/C-1 and PW-25/C-2, and the photographs, Ex.PW-25/B-1 to Ex.PW-
25/B-7, are evident of the fact that the informant and the prosecutrix were
present at Saket till 8:57 p.m. The certificate under Section 65B of the
Evidence Act with respect to the said footage is proved by PW-26, Shri
Sandeep Singh, vide Ex.PW-26/A. The informant as well as the prosecutrix
gave brief description of the entire incident in their MLCs which led the
investigating team to the Hotel near Delhi Airport where the prosecutrix
and the informant were dumped after the incident. PW-67, Pramod Kumar Jha,
the owner of the Hotel at Delhi Airport, was examined by the investigating
officers regarding the present incident. He handed over the pen drive
containing the CCTV footage, Ex.P-67/1, and the CD, Ex.P-67/2 to the I.O.
which were seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW-67/A. The CCTV footage and the
photographs were identified by PW-67, Pramod Jha, PW-74. SI Subhash Chand,
and Gautam Roy, PW-76, from CFSL during their examination in Court. The
CCTV footage twice showed a white coloured bus having yellow and green
stripes at 9:34 p.m. and again at 9:53 p.m. The bus exactly matched the
description of the offending bus given by the informant. It had the word
“Yadav” written on one of its sides and its front tyre on the left side did
not have a wheel cap. PW-78, the S.H.O., Inspector Anil Sharma, has further
deposed that the said CCTV footage seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW-67/A was
sent to the CFSL through SI Sushil Sawariya, PW-54, on 02.01.2013, and this
part of the testimony of PW-78 is corroborated by the testimony of PW-54,
SI Sushil Sawaria, and PW-77, the MHC(M). Thereafter, on 03.01.2013, the
report of the CFSL was received. In fact, the trial court had assured
itself of the correct identification of the bus by playing the said CCTV
footage shown in the pen drive, Ex.PW-67/1, and the CD, Ex.PW-67/2, during
the cross-examination of PW-67, Pramod Jha. 98. Learned counsel Mr. Singh has asserted that bus, Ex. P-1, has been
falsely implicated in the present case as is evidenced from the recovery of
the CCTV footage. In an attempt to discredit the CCTV footage, he pointed
out that only the CCTV recording alleged to be of this bus was recorded and
not of all other white buses that had ‘Yadav’ written on them. The learned
counsel for the defence subsequently maintained that the CCTV footage
cannot be relied upon as the same has been tampered with by the
investigating officers. 99. PW-76, Gautam Roy, HOD, Computer Cell, Forensic Division, has
testified that on 02.01.2013, he had received two sealed parcels sealed
with the seal of PS and the seals tallied with the specimen seals provided.
He marked the blue coloured pen drive found in parcel No.1 as Ex.1 and the
Moser Baer CD found in the second parcel as Ex.2. He further testified that
both the exhibits were played by him in the computer and the bus was seen
twice, at 9:34 p.m. and 9:54 p.m. He had photographed all these three by
freezing the pen drive and the CD and these photographs were compared by
him with the photographs taken by the photographer, PW-79, P.K. Gottam,
which he had summoned. The witness testified that he had prepared the three
comparison charts in this regard as Ex.PW-76/B, PW-76/C and PW-76/D, and
his detailed report as Ex.PW-76/E. The footage taken in a CD and pen drive
was sealed in PW-67’s presence and as the recording was automatic data
being fed on regular basis into the hard disk, the question of tampering
with the same could not arise. PW-79, P.K. Gottam, from CFSL, CBI, has
stated in his examination that he took photographs of the bus bearing No.DL-
1P-C-0149 parked at Thyagraj Stadium, INA, New Delhi from different angles
on 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012 and handed over the same to PW-76. The said
photographs were marked as B1 in Ex.PW-76/B; as C1 and C2 in Ex.PW-76/C;
and as D1 in Ex.PW-76/D. He has deposed as to the genuineness of the
photographs by deposing that the software used for developing the
photographs was tamper proof. 100. Once it is proved before the court through the testimony of the
experts that the photographs and the CCTV footage are not tampered with,
there is no reason or justification to perceive the same with the lens of
doubt. The opinion of the CFSL expert contained in the CFSL report marked
as Ex.PW-76/E authenticates that there was no tampering or editing in both
the exhibits, Ex.P-67/1 and Ex.P- 67/2, and that a bus having identical
patterns as the one parked at Thyagraj Stadium is seen in the CCTV footage,
which includes the word “Yadav” written on one side, "back side dent
(left)" and absence of wheel cover on the front left side. The contents of
the report is also admitted to be true by its author, PW-76, Gautam Roy.
Quite apart from that, it is perceptible that the High Court, in order to
satisfy itself, had got the CCTV footage played during the hearing and
found the same to be creditworthy and acceptable. 101. As the narrative proceeds, the next step was to find out the
bus. The identity of the bus in the CCTV footage was known and the said
knowledge could propel the prosecution to move for recovery. We may start
from the beginning. The bus, Ex. P-1, bearing registration No. DL-
1P-C-0149, is the vehicle alleged to have been involved in the incident. PW-
74, SI Subhash Chand, on 17.12.2012, along with PW-1, the informant, and PW-
80, WSI Pratibha Singh, went to Munirka bus stand from where the victims
had boarded the alleged bus, Ex. P-1, and then to Mahipalpur to the spot
where both the victims were thrown off the bus on 16.12.2012. After the
collection of exhibits from the spot, PW-74 and PW-80 went to the hotels
opposite the spot having CCTV cameras installed and amongst those was Hotel
Delhi 37. At the said hotel, the informant/PW-1 identified the bus they had
boarded in the CCTV footage of the road and the relevant footage of the
recording was taken in a pen drive and CD and was handed over to the
Investigating Officer as Ex. PW-67/A. Later in the day, secret information
was received by PW-80 that the alleged bus was parked at Sector 3, R.K.
Puram. PW-74 accompanied PW-80 and PW-65, Ct Kripal Singh, to Ravidass Camp
where a bus matching the description given by PW-1 was parked near the
Gurudwara. It was white in colour with ‘Yadav’ written on the side. When
the police approached the bus, A-1, Ram Singh, got down from it and started
to run; he was later apprehended in a chase by PW-74 and PW-65. From A-1,
the fitness certificate, PUC and other documents regarding the registration
of the vehicle DL-1PC-0149 were seized as Ex. PW-74/I, PW-74/J and PW-74/K.
 The entry door of the bus was ahead of the front wheel and the wheel cap
was missing from the front tyre. After recovery of the burnt clothes at the
behest of A1, he was sent to the police station with PW-65. PW-42,
 Ct. Suresh Kumar, was called to the spot and he drove the bus to
Thyagraj Stadium around 5:45 p.m. on the same day. An inspection of the
bus was conducted inside the stadium and the CFSL team lifted Ex. PW-74/P.
Thereafter, PW-32, SI Vishal Chaudhary, and PW-33, SI Vikas Rana, were
called from police station Kotla Mubarakpur to guard the bus. 102. Mr. Singh has raised the following issues with respect to the
identification and recovery of the alleged bus: 103. Mr. Singh has made bald allegation that the bus, Ex P-1, was
falsely implicated and that all the DNA evidence recovered therefrom was
actually planted. He contends that the bus, Ex. P-1, was sent to Thyagraj
Stadium instead of the concerned Police Station, PS Vasant Vihar, with the
deliberate intention of avoiding the media attention so that the evidence
could be planted easily. This argument is in furtherance of his false
implication theory. He has, however, provided no further specific
assertions to cast a doubt in our mind that the police has planted the
evidence in the bus. 104. Mr. Luthra, in his turn, relying on the decision of the Delhi
High Court in Manjit Singh v. State [49], has placed statistics before us
pointing to the paucity of physical space in police stations across the
city. In Manjit Singh (supra), the High Court had ordered the Delhi Police
to furnish data regarding case properties with the Police. The High Court
noted that there was an accumulation of “2,86,741 case properties including
25,547 vehicles, out of which as many as 2,479 properties are lying in
public places outside the police stations”. Given the state of affairs, the
submission put forth by Mr. Luthra is acceptable. There is dearth of space
inside the police stations in Delhi and the use of Thyagraj Stadium as
parking lot in the present case does not necessarily mean that there was
any mala fide intention on the part of the investigating agency without any
specific assertion to advance the said bald allegation. 105. It may also be noted that on 17.12.2012, PW-42, Ct. Suresh
Kumar, drove the bus from Ravidass Camp to Thyagraj Stadium around 5:45
p.m. along with PW-74 and PW-80. About 6:15 p.m., PW-32, SI Vishal
Chaudhary, along with Ct. Amit, both of PS Kotla Mubarakpur, were sent to
Thyagraj Stadium where on the instructions of PW-80, SI Pratibha, PW-
32, guarded the bus till 8:00 a.m. the next day. On 18.12.2012, he handed
over the charge of guarding the bus to PW-33, SI Vikas Rana, PS Kotla
Mubarakpur, and he guarded the bus till 8:30 p.m., until after the CFSL
team left. Thus, the criticism as regards the parking of the bus at
Thyagraj Stadium and not at the Police Station pales into insignificance. Reliability of the testimony of PW-81 (the owner of the bus) 106. Having dealt with the recovery of the bus, it is necessary to
dwell upon the contention put forth by the learned counsel for the
appellants which pertains to the acceptability and reliability of the
testimony of PW-81, Dinesh Yadav. The principal contention in this regard
is that PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, the owner of the bus, was in judicial custody
and, therefore, his version in the court is under tremendous pressure as he
was desirous of getting a bail order to enjoy his liberty. Highlighting
this aspect, it is urged by Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh, learned counsel for
the appellants, that the testimony of the said witness deserves to be
totally discarded. 107. PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, is a transporter and owns 8 to 10 buses
including Ex. P-1. He runs the buses under the name ‘Yadav Travels’. He was
examined by the prosecution to prove that A-1, A-2 and A-3 are connected
with the bus, Ex. P-1. In his examination, PW-81 admitted that the word
‘Yadav’ is written across Ex. P-1 and that it is white in colour with
yellow stripes. PW-81 stated that A-1, Ram Singh (since deceased), was the
driver of the said bus in December 2012, A-3, Akshay Kumar Singh, was his
helper and the bus was usually parked by A-1, Ram Singh, in R.K. Puram,
near his residence. The bus was attached to Birla Vidya Niketan School,
Pushp Vihar, New Delhi to ferry students in the morning and also to a
Company, M/s Net Ambit, Sector 132, Noida, to take its employees from Delhi
to Noida. On 17.12.2012, the bus went from Delhi to Sector 132, Noida to
take the staff of M/s Net Ambit to their office and PW-81 was informed by A-
1, Ram Singh, or A-2, Mukesh, that the bus was checked at the DND toll
plaza on their route to Noida. 108. Learned counsel Mr. Singh has asserted that PW-81 was kept in
judicial custody to obtain a statement favourable to the prosecution in the
present case. In this aspect, it is noted that PW-81 also stated that he
was kept in judicial custody. The arrest was, however, not made in the
present case; it was in connection with another case in relation to
providing incorrect address to the Transport Authority. He was lodged in
jail in case FIR No. 02/2013 of PS Civil Lines under Sections 420 , 468 , 471 IPC. PW-81 had provided his friend’s address as his own at the time of
registration and was arrested on a complaint made by the Transport
Authority. He was named in the charge-sheet in the present case and was
cited as a witness at serial No. 36 but was dropped by the prosecution on
28.05.2013. Later on, his examination was sought by way of an application
under Section 311 CrPC. The application was allowed by the trial court
order dated 03.07.2013 on the ground that he was the owner of the bus and
his examination was necessary to prove as to whom he had handed over the
custody of the bus on the night of the incident, i.e., 16.12.2012. It is
limpid from the deposition of PW-81 that he was in judicial custody for a
separate offence and, therefore, it is difficult to accede to the argument
advanced by Mr. Singh that he was under pressure to support the version of
the prosecution. 109. Apart from the above, the prosecution, in order to place A-1 as
the driver of the bus, Ex. P-1, has examined PW-16, Rajeev Jakhmola. PW-16,
Manager (Admn) of Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, handled their
transport. In his examination, he stated that PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, had
provided the school with 7 buses on contract basis including Ex. P-1 and
that A-1, Ram Singh, was its driver. He also submitted a copy of Ram
Singh’s Driving Licence to the Police along with the copy of the agreement
of the school with the owner of the bus, copy of the RC, copy of the
fitness certificate, certificate of third party technical inspection,
pollution certificate, two copies of certificate–cum-policy schedule
(Insurance), copy of certificate of training undergone by accused Ram
Singh, copy of permit and list of the transporters, collectively as Ex. PW-
16/A. 110. Thus, according to the prosecution, from the evidence of PW-16,
Rajeev Jakhmola, and PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, it stands proved that the bus in
question was routinely driven by Ram Singh. When an argument was raised
before the High Court over the veracity of PW-81’s testimony, it recorded
as under: 111. The aforesaid analysis commends our approval because we, having
analysed the said aspect on our own, have arrived at the same conclusion.
There is no trace of doubt that the testimony of the said witness
withstands close scrutiny and there is no reason to treat it with any kind
of disapproval. That apart, the evidence of PW-16 corroborates the
testimony of the owner of the bus. Personal search and statements of disclosure leading to recovery 112. Learned counsel for the appellants have seriously questioned
the arrest of the accused persons and the recoveries made pursuant to the
said arrest. It is the stand of the prosecution that pursuant to the
arrest of all the accused A-1 to A-5, there were disclosure statements
recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act which led to recoveries of
incriminating articles such as objects belonging to the victims as also
objects which have been linked orally or scientifically (such as through
DNA profiling) to the prosecutrix and PW-1. These material objects
recovered are used to link the convicts with the crime and corroborate the
version of the eye witness PW-1 and the dying declaration of the deceased
victim. 113. First, we shall refer to the arrest of Ram Singh and the
recoveries made at his instance. As already stated, on 17.12.2012, PW-80,
SI Pratibha Sharma, had spotted accused Ram Singh sitting in the offending
bus, Ex. P1, which was parked at Ravidass Camp, R.K. Puram, New Delhi. On
seeing the police, Ram Singh got down from the bus and started running. He
was chased and instantly arrested at 4:15 p.m. vide memo Ex.PW-74/D and
subsequently, his personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW-74/E and
his disclosure Ex.PW-74/F was recorded. Notably, Ram Singh has led to
several important discoveries and seizures from inside the bus. 114. Accused Mukesh was apprehended on 18.12.2012 from village
Karoli, Rajasthan, by a team headed by PW-58, SI Arvind. He produced
accused Mukesh before PW-80, SI Pratibha Sharma, the Investigating Officer,
at Safdarjung Hospital in muffled face alongwith a mobile, Samsung Galaxy
Duos, Ex.P-6, seized by her vide memo Ex.PW-58/A. The accused was arrested
at 6:30 p.m. on 18-12-2012 by her vide memo Ex.PW-58/B and his personal
search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW-58/C. The accused pointed the Munirka
bus stand vide memo Ex.PW-68/K and the dumping spot vide memo Ex.PW-68/L.
This Samsung Galaxy phone was identified to be that of PW-1, the informant. 115. On 23.12.2012, accused Mukesh led the police to Anupam
Apartment, garage No. 2, Saidulajab, Saket, New Delhi, and got recovered a
green colour T-shirt, Ex.P-48/1, on which the word “play boy” was printed;
a grey colour pant, Ex.P-48/2, and a jacket, Ex.P-48/3, of bluish grey
colour, all seized vide memo Ex.PW-48/B. The Investigating Officer also
prepared the site plan, Ex.PW-80/I, of the place of recovery. On
24.12.2012, accused Mukesh also got prepared a route chart Ex.PW-80/H. 116. On 18.12.2012, accused Ram Singh led the Investigating Officer
to Ravidass Camp and pointed towards his associates, namely, accused Vinay
and accused Pawan. Accused Pawan was apprehended and arrested about 1:15
p.m. vide memo Ex.PW-60/A; his disclosure, Ex.PW-60/G, was recorded and his
personal search was conducted vide memo Ex.PW-60/C. Accused Pawan Gupta
pointed out the Munirka bus stand and a pointing out memo Ex.PW-68/I was
prepared. He also pointed the dumping spot and memo Ex.PW-68/J was
prepared in this regard. 117. On 19.12.2012, from accused Pawan Gupta, PW-80, got effected
the following recoveries: 118. On 18.12.2012, about 1:30 p.m., accused Vinay Sharma was
arrested in front of Ravidass Mandir, Main Road, Sector-3, R.K. Puram, New
Delhi vide arrest memo Ex.PW-60/B; and his disclosure Ex.PW-60/H was also
recorded. He pointed out the Munirka bus stand from where the victims were
picked up vide memo Ex.PW-68/I and he also pointed out Mahipalpur Flyover,
the place where the victims were thrown out of the moving bus vide pointing
out memo Ex.PW-68/J. On 19.12.2012, he led to the following recoveries: 119. On 19.12.2012, pursuant to his supplementary disclosure
statement Ex.PW-68/A, the following recoveries were made by the accused
vide seizure memo Ex.PW-68/B: 120. During the personal search of Vinay Sharma, the following
article was recovered: 121. On 21.12.2012, about 9:15 p.m., accused Akshay Kumar Singh @
Thakur was arrested from village Karmalahang, P.S. Tandwa, District
Aurangabad, Bihar vide memo Ex.PW-53/A and on 21.12.2012 and 22.12.2012,
his disclosures, Ex.PW-53/I and Ex.PW-53/D, respectively were recorded. On
22.12.2012, he got effected the following recoveries from the residence of
his brother, Abhay, from the rented house of one Tara Chand, village
Naharpur, Gurgaon, viz; Blood stained jeans (Ex.P-53/3) worn by the accused at the time of the
incident, recovered from a black bag (Ex.P-53/2)

A blue black coloured Nokia mobile phone (Ex.P-53/1)

 Blood-stained red coloured banian (vest). 122. On 27.12.2012, he got recovered the informant’s Metro card Ex.P-
5 and the informant’s silver ring, Ex.P-4, from House No. 1943, 3rd Floor,
Gali No.3, Rajiv Nagar, Sector-14, Gurgaon, Haryana. 123. Learned counsel for the appellants and learned amicus, Mr.
Hegde, have vehemently criticized the arrest and recoveries that have been
made or effected. It is urged by Mr. Sharma that the appellant Mukesh was
not in custody when the recovery took place and additionally, he was not
produced before the nearest Magistrate within twenty-four hours from the
time of detention. Mr. Luthra, in his turn, would submit that the said
accused was formally arrested at Delhi and, thereafter, the recovery on the
basis of his disclosure took place. Mr. Singh, learned counsel, contended
that the disclosure statements which have been recorded by the police do
tantamount to confessional statements relating to the involvement and
commission of the crime. This argument requires to be squarely dealt with.
For appreciating the said submission, it is necessary to appreciate the
inter-se relationship between the accused persons and thereafter dwell upon
the process of the arrest and judge the acceptability on the anvil of the
precedents in the field. 124. As the evidence brought on record would show, the accused
persons were known to each other. Mukesh, A-2, and deceased Ram Singh, A-1,
were brothers. According to the testimony of Dinesh Yadav, PW-81, Ram
Singh was the driver of the bus and A-3, Akshay, was working as a helper in
the bus. The same is manifest from the Attendance Register, Ex. P-81/2,
seized vide Ex. PW-80/K and the Driving License of A-1, Ram Singh, Ex. P-
74/4, seized vide Ex. PW-74/1. From the testimony of PW-13, Brijesh Gupta,
and PW-14, Jiwant Shah, it is evident that Ram Singh and Mukesh were
brothers. From the evidence of Champa Devi, DW-5, mother of Vinay, A-4, it
is quite clear that Vinay, Pawan, A-5, and Ram Singh, A-1, were known to
each other. Mukesh, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, has admitted
that he and Ram Singh are brothers. A-3, Akshay, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, has admitted that he was working with Ram Singh in the
bus, Ex. P-1, as a helper. He has also admitted that he knew Ram Singh
and there had been altercation on 16.12.2012 with A-1, Ram Singh. A-5,
Pawan, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, admitted that he was a
witness to the quarrel between A-4, Vinay, and A-1, Ram Singh. From the
aforesaid evidence, it is luminous that all the accused persons were
closely associated with each other. 125. Having dealt with this facet, we shall now proceed to meet the
criticism advanced by the learned counsel for the appellants with regard to
the recoveries and the disclosure statements that led to the discoveries. 126. Assailing the acceptability of the arrest and the disclosure
statements leading to the recoveries, Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh have
contended that the materials brought on record cannot be taken aid of for
any purpose since the items seized have been planted at the places of
recovery and a contrived version has been projected in court. That apart,
it is submitted that the recoveries are gravely doubtful inasmuch as the
prosecution has not seized all the articles from one accused on one
occasion but on various dates. We have cleared the maze as regards the
arrest and copiously noted the manner of arrest of the accused persons and
their leading to recoveries. Be it noted, recovery is a part of
investigation and permissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act.
However, Mr. Sharma has raised a contention that this Court should take
note of the fact that Section 27 of the Evidence Act has become a powerful
weapon in the hands of the prosecution to rope in any citizen. The said
submission, as we perceive, is quite broad and specious. It is open to the
defence to find fault with recovery and the manner in which it is done and
its relevance. It is not permissible to advance an argument that Section
27 of the Evidence Act is constantly abused by the prosecution or that it
uses the said provision as a lethal weapon against anyone it likes. In the
instant case, we have noted how the recoveries have been made and how they
have been proved by the unimpeachable testimony of the prosecution
witnesses. 127. Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing for the State, would
submit that in the present case, the material objects recovered serve as
links to corroborate and they have been used as the law permits. In this
regard, he has filed a chart which we think it appropriate to reproduce for
better appreciation of the said aspect. It is as follows: 128. Having reproduced the chart, now we shall refer to certain
authorities on how a statement of disclosure is to be appreciated. In Pulukuri Kottaya v. Emperor [50], it has been observed: 129. In Delhi Administration v. Bal Krishan and others [51], the Court,
analyzing the concept, use and evidentiary value of recovered articles,
expressed thus: 130. In Mohd. Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra [52], dealing with
the scope and object of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, the Court held: Crown[53]; Rex v. Ganee[54]). Now it is fairly settled that the expression
“fact discovered” includes not only the physical object produced, but also
the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to
this (see Palukuri Kotayya v. Emperor; Udai Bhan v. State of Uttar
Pradesh [55]). 131. Analysing the earlier decisions, in Anter Singh v. State of
Rajasthan [56], the Court summed up the various requirements of Section 27 as follows: 132. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu alias Afsan Guru[57],
the Court referred to the initial prevalence of divergent views and
approaches and the same being put to rest in Pulukuri Kottaya case (supra)
which has been described as locus classicus, relying on the said
authority, observed: 133. Explaining the said facet, the Court proceeded to state thus: 134. Expatriating the idea further, the Court proceeded to lay down: 135. In the instant case, the recoveries made when the accused
persons were in custody have been established with certainty. The
witnesses who have deposed with regard to the recoveries have remained
absolutely unshaken and, in fact, nothing has been elicited from them to
disprove their creditworthiness. Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for
the State, has not placed reliance on any kind of confessional statement
made by the accused persons. He has only taken us through the statement to
show how the recoveries have taken place and how they are connected or
linked with the further investigation which matches the investigation as is
reflected from the DNA profiling and other scientific evidence. The High
Court, while analyzing the facet of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, upheld
the argument of the prosecution relying on State, Govt. of NCT of Delhi v.
Sunil and another [58], Sunil Clifford Daniel v. State of Punjab [59], Ashok
Kumar Chaudhary and others v. State of Bihar [60], and Pramod Kumar v. State
(Government of NCT of Delhi )[61]. 136. On a studied scrutiny of the arrest memo, statements recorded
under Section 27 and the disclosure made in pursuance thereof, we find that
the recoveries of articles belonging to the informant and the victim from
the custody of the accused persons cannot be discarded. The recovery is
founded on the statements of disclosure. The items that have been seized
and the places from where they have been seized, as is limpid, are within
the special knowledge of the accused persons. No explanation has come on
record from the accused persons explaining as to how they had got into
possession of the said articles. What is argued before us is that the said
recoveries have really not been made from the accused persons but have been
planted by the investigating agency with them. On a reading of the
evidence of the witnesses who constituted the investigating team, we do not
notice anything in this regard. The submission, if we allow ourselves to
say so, is wholly untenable and a futile attempt to avoid the incriminating
circumstance that is against the accused persons. Test Identification Parade and the identification in Court 137. Now, we shall deal with the various facets of test
identification parade. Upon application moved by PW-80, SI Pratibha Sharma,
Investigating Officer, PW-17, Sandeep Garg, Metropolitan Magistrate,
conducted the Test Identification Parade (TIP) for the accused Ram Singh
(since deceased), who refused to participate in the TIP proceedings on the
ground that he was shown to the witnesses in the police station. Since
accused Ram Singh died during the trial, neither the trial court nor the
High Court delved into this aspect regarding the refusal of accused Ram
Singh to participate in the TIP proceedings. 138. On 19.12.2012, PW-17, Sandeep Garg, Metropolitan Magistrate
initiated TIP proceedings for accused Vinay and Pawan, but they refused to
participate in the TIP. In the TIP proceedings, the Metropolitan
Magistrate has recorded the following:- 139. Vinay and Pawan refused to participate in the TIP proceedings
without giving any reason whatsoever. TIP of accused Mukesh was conducted
on 20.12.2012 at Tihar Jail by PW-17, Sandeep Garg, in which PW-1, Awninder
Pratap, identified accused Mukesh. In his testimony, the informant, PW-1,
has identified his signature at point ‘A’ in TIP proceedings with respect
to the accused Mukesh, Ex.PW-1/E. The High Court has pointed out
that there was no serious challenge to the TIP proceedings of accused
Mukesh in the cross-examination of the Metropolitan Magistrate, PW-17, or
even the Investigating Officer, PW-80. TIP of accused Akshay was conducted
on 26.12.2012 at Central Jail No.4, Tihar Jail, where the informant, PW-1,
identified accused Akshay. PW-1 identified his signature at point ‘A’ in
the TIP proceedings of accused Akshay marked as Ex.PW-1/F. The accused
Mukesh and Akshay were already identified in the TIP proceedings by the
informant. Test Identification Proceedings corroborate and lend assurance
to the dock identification of accused Mukesh and Akshay by the informant,
PW-1. 140. Criticizing the TIP, it is urged by the learned counsel for the
appellants and Mr. Hegde, learned amicus curiae, that refusal to
participate may be considered as circumstance but it cannot by itself lead
to an inference of guilt. It is also argued that there is material on
record to show that the informant had the opportunity to see the accused
persons after they were arrested. It is necessary to state here that TIP
does not constitute substantive evidence. It has been held in Matru alias Girish Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh [62] that identification test is
primarily meant for the purpose of helping the investigating agency with an
assurance that their progress with the investigation of an offence is
proceeding on the right lines. 141. In Santokh Singh v. Izhar Hussain and another [63], it has been
observed that the identification can only be used as corroborative of the
statement in court. 142. In Malkhansingh v. State of M.P. [64], it has been held thus: 143. In this context, reference to a passage from Visveswaran v.
State represented by S.D.M.[65] would be apt. It is as follows: 144. In Sidhartha Vashisht alias Manu Sharma v. State (NCT of
Delhi )[66], the Court, after referring to Munshi Singh Gautam v. State of
M.P. [67], Harbhajan Singh v. State of J & K [68] and Malkhansingh (supra),
came to hold that the proposition of law is quite clear that even if there
is no previous TIP, the court may appreciate the dock identification as
being above board and more than conclusive. 145. In the case at hand, the informant, apart from identifying the
accused who had made themselves available in the TIP, has also identified
all of them in Court. On a careful scrutiny of the evidence on record, we
are of the convinced opinion that it deserves acceptance. Therefore, we
hold that TIP is not dented. Admissibility and acceptability of the dying declaration of the
prosecutrix: 146. At this stage, it would be immensely seemly to appreciate the
acceptability and reliability of the dying declaration made by the
prosecutrix. 147. The circumstances in this case, as is noticeable, makes the
prosecution bring in three dying declarations. Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh
have been extremely critical about the manner in which they have been
recorded and have highlighted the irreconcilable facets. In quintessence,
their submission is that the three dying declarations have been contrived
and deserve to be kept out of consideration. Mr. Hegde, learned friend of
the Court, contends that the dying declarations do not inspire confidence,
for variations in them relate to the number of assailants, the description
of the bus, the identity of the accused and the overt acts committed by
them. It is contended that the three dying declarations made by the
prosecutrix vary from each other and the said variations clearly reveal the
inconsistencies and the improvements in the dying declarations mirror the
improvements that are brought about in PW-1’s statements and the progress
of the investigation. 148. The sudden appearance of the name ‘Vipin’ in the third dying
declaration after the recording of Akshay’s disclosure statement where he
mentions a person named Vipin is alleged to be indicative of the fact that
the dying declaration is, in fact, doubtful. It is contended that the
prosecution has failed to explain ‘Vipin’, his connection with the crime
and his elimination from the case. The vapourisation of Vipin has to be
considered against the backdrop of repeated assertions by the prosecution
that every word of the three dying declarations is correct, consciously
made and worthy of implicit belief. Learned senior counsel has also
submitted that apart from the inconsistencies, the numerous procedural
irregularities in the recording of the declarations make it suspicious. In
this regard, lack of an independent assessment of the mental fitness of the
prosecutrix, while recording the second dying declaration, has been
highlighted. The multiple choice questions in the third and final dying
declaration are being nomenclatured as leading questions and it is asserted
that they have not been satisfactorily explained by the prosecution.
Further, the evidence by the doctors does not cure the impropriety of lack
of an independent assessment by the SDM while recording her second dying
declaration. 149. It is submitted that if at all any dying declaration is to be
relied on, it should only be the first dying declaration made on 16.12.2012
and recorded by PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, and the said dying declaration
only states that there were 4 to 5 persons on the bus. It is further
stated that the prosecutrix was raped by a minimum of 2 men and that she
does not remember intercourse after that. It is, therefore, unsafe to
proceed on the assumption that all six persons on the bus committed rape
upon the prosecutrix within a span of 21 minutes. 150. Keeping the aforesaid criticism in view, we proceed to analyse
the acceptability and reliability of the dying declarations. Firstly, when
the prosecutrix was brought to the Gynae Casualty about 11:15 p.m., she
gave a brief account of the incident to PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, in her MLC
on 16.12.2012. PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, has deposed that on the night of
16.12.2012 about 11:15 p.m., the prosecutrix was brought to the casualty by
a PCR constable and that she gave a brief history of the incident. PW-49,
Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, recorded the same in her writing in the Casualty/GRR
paper, i.e., Ex. PW-49/A. 151. In the instant case, as per the history told by the prosecutrix
to Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, it was a case of gang rape in a moving bus by 4-5
persons when the prosecutrix was returning after watching a film with her
friend. She was slapped on her face, kicked on her abdomen and bitten over
lips, cheek, breast and vulval region. She remembers intercourse two times
and rectal penetration also. She was also forced to suck their penis but
she refused. All this continued for half an hour and then she was thrown
off from the moving bus with her friend. We have already stated about the
injuries which were noted by Dr. Rashmi Ahuja in Ex.PW-49/A. 152. The relevant statement of the prosecutrix in the Medico Legal
Expert, Ex.PW49/A, reads as under: 153. PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, had noticed number of injuries on the
person of the prosecutrix and the same were noted in Ex. PW- 49/B as under: 154. PW-50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, and the surgery team operated the
prosecutrix in the intervening night of 16/17.12.2012 and the operative
findings have also been earlier noted. 155. PW-50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, has proved the OT notes as Ex.PW-
50/A bearing the signature of Dr. Gaurav and his own note in this regard is
Ex.PW-50/B. As per his opinion, the condition of the small and large bowels
were extremely bad for any definitive repair. After performing the
operation, the patient was shifted to ICU. The first surgery was damage
control surgery and it was expected that unhealthy bowel would be there. 156. The second surgery was performed on 19.12.2012 by him along
with his operating team consisting of Prof. Sunil Kumar, Dr. Pintu and Dr.
Siddharth. From the gynaecological side, Dr. Aruna Batra and Dr. Rekha
Bharti were present along with anaesthetic team. The findings were as
under: 157. Dying Declaration was recorded by SDM, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, PW-
27, on 21.12.2012. The medical record of the prosecutrix shows that the
prosecutrix was not found fit for recording of her statement until 21st
December, 2012 about 6:00 p.m. when the prosecutrix was declared fit for
recording statement by PW-52, Dr. P.K Verma. PW-52 had examined the
prosecutrix and found her to be fit, conscious, oriented and meaningfully
communicative for making statement vide his endorsement at point ‘A’ on
application, Ex.PW-27/DB. The second dying declaration, Ex.PW-27/A, was
recorded by PW-27, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, SDM. This dying declaration is an
elaborate one where the prosecutrix has described the incident in detail
including the act of insertion of rod in her private parts. She also stated
that the accused were addressing each other with names like,“Ram Singh,
Thakur, Raju, Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay”. 158. The relevant portion of the dying declaration
 Ex. PW-27/A recorded by PW-27, SDM, is extracted below: 159. The clinical notes, Ex.PW-50/C, and notes prepared by the
gynaecology team were proved as Ex.PW-50/D. The gynaecological notes were
prepared on actual examination of the patient on the operation table during
the surgery. PW-50 further operated the prosecutrix on 23.12.2012 for
peritoneal lavage and placement of drain under general anaesthesia and his
notes are Ex.PW-50/E. 160. Statement of the prosecutrix was recorded by PW-30, Pawan
Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, vide Ex.PW-30/D. On 24.12.2012, an
application for recording the statement of the prosecutrix under Section
164 CrPC was moved by the Investigating Officer, which is exhibited as
Ex.PW-30/A and, thereafter, the learned Metropolitan Magistrate fixed the
date for recording of the statement as 25.12.2012 at 9:00 a.m. at
Safdarjung Hospital vide his endorsement at Point “P” to “P-1” on Ex. PW-
30/A. On 25.12.2012, PW-28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, at 12:40 p.m., declared the
prosecutrix fit for recording statement through gestures. She was found
conscious, oriented, co-operative, comfortable and meaningfully
communicative to make a statement through non-verbal gestures. 161. On 25.12.2012, the prosecutrix’s statement,
Ex.PW-30/D, under Section 164 CrPC was recorded by PW-30, Pawan Kumar,
Metropolitan Magistrate, in the form of questions by putting her multiple
choice questions. This statement was made through gestures and writings.
The statement recorded by PW-30 which ultimately became another dying
declaration reads as under: Ques.: What did they do after rape? Left at home 2. Threw at unknown place 3. Got down at some other bus stop. Ans: 2”

As per Ex. PW-30/D, this answer was written by the prosecutrix in her own
hand. 162. On 26.12.2012, the condition of the prosecutrix was examined
and it was decided to shift her abroad for further treatment. Notes in this
regard are Ex.PW-50/F bearing the signatures of Dr. Raj Kumar, Dr. Sunil
Kumar, Dr. Aruna Batra and Dr. P.K. Verma. 163. The prosecutrix died at Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore on
29.12.2012 at 4:45 a.m. The cause of death is stated as sepsis with multi
organ failure following multiple injuries, as is evincible from Ex.PW-34/A. 164. Learned counsel for the appellants have objected to the
admissibility of the dying declarations available on record mainly on the
ground that they are not voluntary but tutored. It is argued that the
second and third dying declarations are nothing but a product of tutoring
and are non-voluntary and the only statement recorded is the MLC, Ex.PW49/A
and Ex. PW49/B, prepared immediately after the incident, wherein the
prosecutrix has neither named any of the accused nor mentioned the factum
of iron rod being used by the accused persons and the act of the accused in
committing unnatural offence. It is further alleged that the prosecutrix
could not have given such a lengthy dying declaration running upto four
pages on 21.12.2012 as she was on oxygen support. PW-27 has deposed that
the prosecutrix was on oxygen support at the time of recording the second
dying declaration. It is further contended that it must be taken into
account that ever since the prosecutrix was admitted to the hospital, she
was continuously on morphine and, thus, she could not have gained
consciousness. The second dying declaration has been further assailed on
the ground of being recorded at the behest of SDM, PW-27, instead of a
Magistrate and that too after a delay of nearly four days. The third dying
declaration, Ex.PW-30/D, recorded by the Metropolitan Magistrate, PW-30, on
25.12.2012 through gestures and writings is controverted by putting forth
the allegations of false medical fitness certificate and absence of
videography. 165. Another argument advanced by the lerned counsel raising
suspicion on the genuineness of the second and third dying declarations is
that the dates on which the dying declarations were recorded have been
manipulated. The counsel asseverated that the second dying declaration,
i.e., Ex.PW-27/A, purported to have been recorded by PW-27 on
21.12.2012 was, in fact, recorded on the previous day as evidenced from the
overwriting of the date in Ex. PW-27/B. The counsel also
pointed to the overwriting of the date in the third dying declaration,
i.e., Ex. PW-30/C, recorded by PW-30. It is propounded by them that the
date was modified thrice in order to fit in the fake chain of circumstances
contrived by the prosecution. 166. Resisting the said submissions, Mr. Luthra, learned senior
counsel for the State, astutely contended that all the three dying
declarations recorded at the instance of the prosecutrix are consistent and
well corroborated by medical evidence as well as by PW-1’s testimony, and
other scientific evidence. The prosecutrix’s first statement, Ex. PW-49/A,
given to PW-49 was only a brief account of the heinous act committed on her
and in that state of shock, nothing more could be legitimately expected of
her. Only after receiving medical attention, she was declared fit to
record statement and on 21.12.2012, PW-52 had examined the prosecutrix and
found her to be fit, conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative for
making statement vide his endorsement at point ‘A’ on application Ex.PW-
27/DB. PW-27, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, SDM, recorded her statement in which
the prosecutrix described the incident in detail and also named the accused
persons. In fact, PW-27 has also deposed before the court that the
prosecutrix was in a fit mental condition to give the statement on
21.12.2012. Moreover, the prosecutrix’s third statement, Ex.PW-30/D, which
was recorded in question-answer form through gestures and writings by PW-
30, Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, is consistent with the earlier
two dying declarations and that adds to the credibility and conclusively
establishes reliability. 167. In the first dying declaration made to PW-49,
 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, recorded in Ex.PW-49/A and in MLC, Ex.PW-49/B, due to
her medical condition, though the prosecutrix broadly described the
incident of gang rape committed on her and injuries caused to her and PW-1,
yet she failed to vividly describe the incident of inserting iron rod, etc.
 As soon as the prosecutrix was brought to the hospital, she gave a brief
description of the incident to PW-49, Dr. Rashmi Ahuja. As it appears from
the record, the prosecutrix had lost sufficient quantity of blood due to
which she was drowsy and could only give a brief account of the incident
and injuries caused to her and the informant. Even though the prosecutrix
has given only a brief account of the occurrence, yet she was responding to
verbal command and hence, the same is natural and trustworthy and
furthermore, Ex. PW-49/A is also consistent with the other dying
declarations. 168. By virtue of the second dying declaration recorded as Ex.PW-
27/A on 21.12.2012 about 9:10 p.m. by the SDM, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, the
exact details of the incident and the injuries caused to the prosecutrix
have come on record. The learned SDM has satisfied herself that the
prosecutrix was fit to make the statement. While recording the dying
declaration of the prosecutrix, Ex.PW-27/A, Dr. P.K Verma, PW-52, had found
her conscious, oriented and meaningfully communicative vide his endorsement
at point ‘A’ on the application, Ex.PW-27/DB. It was only thereafter that
PW-27, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, SDM, recorded the statement, Ex.PW-27/A, of
the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix not only signed it but even wrote the date
and time in this statement. She narrated the entire incident specifying the
role of each accused; gang rape/unnatural sex committed upon her; the
injuries caused in her vagina and rectum by use of iron rod and by
inserting of hands by the accused; description of the bus, robbery and
lastly throwing of both the victims out of the moving bus, Ex.P1, in naked
condition at the footfall of Mahipalpur flyover. 169. As it appears from the record, PW-27, after recording the
statement of the prosecutrix, as contained in Ex.PW-27/A, forwarded the
statement alongwith the forwarding letter, Ex. PW-27/B, to the ACP, Vasant
Vihar undersigned by herself. Ex. PW-27/A, which contains the statement of
the prosecutrix, is duly signed by the prosecutrix on all the pages and
also signed by PW-27, SDM. PW-27 has certified in Ex.PW-27/A that the
signature of the prosecutrix was obtained in her presence at 9:00 p.m. on
21.12.2012 after which she has signed the same. No overwriting of date is
evidenced in Ex.PW-27/A. However, so far as the forwarding letter, i.e.,
Ex.PW-27/B, is concerned, the date mentioned by PW-27 after putting her
signature is overwritten as 21.12.2012. When cross-examined on this aspect,
PW-27 has stated that she had herself overwritten the date and, thus,
overruled the possibility of any falsification of the document at the
behest of the investigating team. PW-27 explained the overwriting of date
as a ‘human error’ and the same has been rightly construed by the trial
court and accepted by the High Court as a complete explanation. The
relevant statement of PW-27 is as under: However, the court, while admitting a dying declaration, must be vigilant
towards the need for 'Compos Mentis Certificate' from a doctor as well as
the absence of any kind of tutoring. In Laxman v. State of Maharashtra [69],
the law relating to dying declaration was succinctly put in the following
words: Judge Bench decisions in Babulal (supra) and Prakash (supra), the Court
held: 50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, Surgical Specialist, Department of Surgery,
Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi and his surgery team comprising of himself,
Dr. Gaurav and Dr. Piyush, and the prosecutrix was shifted to ICU. The
second surgery was performed on her on 19.12.2012. Ex.PW-50/C, OT notes
dated 19.12.2012 show that the prosecutrix was put on ventilation after the
surgery. Considering the facts and circumstances and the law laid down
above, a mere omission on the part of the prosecutrix to state the entire
factual details of the incident in her very first statement does not make
her subsequent statements unworthy, especially when her statements are duly
corroborated by other prosecution witnesses including the medical evidence. 181. The contention that no dying declaration could have been
recorded on 21.12.2012 as the prosecutrix was administered morphine does
not hold good as PW-52, Dr. P.K. Verma, has deposed that morphine was
injected at 6:00 p.m. on 20.12.2012 and its effect would have lasted for
only 3-4 hours. PW-52 has denied that the prosecutrix was unconscious and
had difficulty in breathing at the time when she made the statement to PW-
27, SDM, on 21.12.2012. 182. Yet another objection raised by the the learned counsel for the
appellants concerning the medical fitness of the prosecutrix, while
recording the third dying declaration is that when PW-30, Metropolitan
Magistrate, Pawan Kumar, recorded the dying declaration of the prosecutrix,
she was not in a position to speak as per the endorsement made by PW-52,
Dr. P.K. Verma, and, therefore, no weight could be attached to the dying
declaration recorded by PW-30. In this regard, reliance is placed
upon Ex.PW-30/B1. This contention was raised before the High Court as well
as the trial court and while considering the contention, we find that: 183. PW-28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, opined vide Ex.PW-28/A at 12:40 p.m.
on 25.12.2012 that the prosecutrix was conscious, cooperative, meaningfully
communicative through non-verbal gestures, oriented and fit to give
statement. PW-28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, examined the prosecutrix around 12
noon and finished it by 12:00-12:30 p.m. On 25.12.2012 at 12:35 p.m., Dr.
P.K. Verma had endorsed on the document Exhibit PW-30/B that the victim
could not speak as she had endotracheal tube in place (that is, in larynx
and trachea) and was on ventilator. However, subsequently, at 12:40 p.m. on
the same day, PW-28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi, had endorsed on the said document,
Ex.PW-30/B, to the effect that the victim was conscious, cooperative,
meaningfully communicative, oriented, responding through non-verbal
gestures and fit to give statement. The learned counsel contended that it
is inconceivable that the prosecutrix who was on life support system at
12:35 p.m. could be opined to be conscious, cooperative and fit to give
statement within five minutes, i.e., at 12:40 p.m. 184. The said contention, as we find, has been appropriately dealt
with by both courts below by adverting to the depositions of PW-52, Dr.
P.K. Verma, and PW-28, Dr. Rajesh Rastogi. Regarding the fit mental
condition of the prosecutrix and as to the different endorsements made by
PW-52, Dr. P.K. Verma, and PW-28, Rajesh Rastogi, PW-52 was questioned
suggesting that the prosecutrix was not in a fit mental condition to give
the dying declaration. PW-52 has clearly deposed in his cross-examination
that he had never endorsed that the victim was unfit to give statement at
12:35 p.m., rather he had said that she was on ventilator and hence, could
not speak. The aforesaid explanation of PW-52, Dr. P.K. Verma, who was
incharge of the ICU in Safdarjung Hospital at the relevant time makes it
limpid that even though the prosecutrix was not able to speak, yet she was
conscious and oriented and was in a position to make the statement by
gestures. 185. The contention that the third dying declaration made through
gestures lacks credibility and that the same ought to have been
videographed, in our view, is totally sans substance. The dying declaration
recorded on the basis of nods and gestures is not only admissible but also
possesses evidentiary value, the extent of which shall depend upon who
recorded the statement. In the instant case, the dying declaration was
recorded by PW-30, Mr. Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate. A perusal of
the questions and the simple answers by way of multiple choice put to the
prosecutrix is manifest of the fact that those questions and answers were
absolutely simple, effective and indispensable. The dying declaration
recorded by PW-30, Ex.PW-30/D, though by nods and gestures and writings,
inspires confidence and has been rightly relied upon by the trial Court as
well as the High Court. Videography of the dying declaration is only a
measure of caution and in case it is not taken care of, the effect of it
would not be fatal for the case and does not, in any circumstance, compel
the court to completely discard that particular dying declaration. 186. In Meesala Ramakrishan v. State of A.P. [81], this Court, while
admitting the dying declaration made through gestures, made the following
observations: 187. In B. Shashikala v. State of A.P. [82], it was observed that: 188. Appreciating the third dying declaration recorded on the basis
of gestures, nods and writings on the base of aforesaid pronouncements, we
have no hesitation in holding that the dying declaration made through
signs, gestures or by nods are admissible as evidence, if proper care was
taken at the time of recording the statement. The only caution the court
ought to take is that the person recording the dying declaration is able to
notice correctly as to what the declarant means by answering by gestures or
nods. In the present case, this caution was aptly taken, as the person who
recorded the prosecutrix’s dying declaration was the Metropolitan
Magistrate and he was satisfied himself as regards the mental alertness and
fitness of the prosecutrix, and recorded the dying declaration of the
prosecutrix by noticing her gestures and by her own writings. 189. Considering the facts and circumstances of the present case and
upon appreciation of the evidence and the material on record, in our view,
all the three dying declarations are consistent with each other and well
corroborated with other evidence and the trial court as well as the High
Court has correctly placed reliance upon the dying declarations of the
prosecutrix to record the conviction. Insertion of the iron rod: 190. Presently, we shall advert to the contentions raised as regards
the use of iron rod for causing recto-vaginal injury. The case of the
prosecution is that the accused, in most inhumane and unfeeling manner,
inserted iron rod in the rectum and vagina of the prosecutrix and took out
the internal organs of the prosecutrix from the vaginal and anal opening
while pulling out the said iron rod. They also took out the internal
organs of the prosecutrix by inserting iron rod in the vagina of the
prosecutrix thereby causing dangerous injuries. Two iron rods, Ex.P-49/1
and Ex.P-49/2, were recovered vide seizure memo Ex.PW-74/G by the
Investigating Officer, PW-80, at the instance of accused Ram Singh (since
deceased). As per Ex.PW-49/A, the internal injuries sustained by the
victim were like vaginal tear, profused bleeding from vagina, rectal tear
communicating with vaginal tear and other injuries. 191. PW-50, Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara, and the surgery team operated the
prosecutrix in the intervening night of 16/17.12.2012 and the operative
findings are as under: 192. PW-80, SI Pratibha Sharma, the Investigating Officer, deposed
before the trial court that accused Ram Singh had led her inside the bus,
Ex.P1 and had taken out two iron rods from the shelf of the driver's cabin.
 One of the rods, 59 cm in length, was primarily used for changing
punctured tyres; it was hooked from one end and chiseled from the other.
It also had multiple serrations on both the ends. The other rod was of
silver colour, hollow and 70 cm long. This rod formed part of a hydraulic
jack and was used as its lever, Ex.PW49/G. The rods were blood stained and
the recovered rods were sealed with the seal of PS and were deposited in
the Malkhana. On 24.12.2012, the said iron rods along with the sample seal
were sent to CFSL, CBI for examination through SI Subhash, PW-74, vide RC
No. 178/21/12, proved as Ex.PW-77/R. The DNA report prepared by Dr. B.K.
Mohapatra, PW-45, suggests that the DNA profile developed from the
bloodstains from both the iron rods is consistent with the DNA profile of
the prosecutrix. 193. Mr. Sharma, learned counsel for the appellants, has countered
the prosecution case on the use of iron rods. He has drawn support from the
medical records and the testimony of the witnesses as also the prosecutrix
to assert the aforesaid submission. He submits that the prosecution has
fabricated the story as regards the use of iron rods only to falsely
implicate all the accused in the death of the prosecutrix. The defence has
refuted the use of iron rods by the accused on the ground that the
informant as well as the prosecutrix did not mention about the use of iron
rods in their first statements. The main contention of the accused is that
the prosecutrix herself, in her first statement given to Dr. Rashmi Ahuja,
PW-49, Ex. PW-49/A, failed to disclose the use of iron rods. He relies on
the absence of the words ‘iron rods’ in Ex.PW-49/A to fortify this
submission. He contends that as recorded by PW-49, the prosecutrix was in a
fit state of mind for she even gave her residential address after
undergoing the traumatic experience, but she failed to mention that the
accused persons also used the iron rods on her, a fact that would have had
a bearing on her treatment. 194. The aforesaid proponement is not sustainable as MLC, Ex.PW49/A,
of the prosecutrix suggests that she was brought to the hospital in a
traumatized state with grievous injuries and she was cold and clammy, i.e.,
whitish (due to vasoconstriction) and had lost a lot of blood. As per Ex.PW-
49/A, the prosecutrix was sure of intercourse to have been committed twice
along with rectal penetration whereafter she did not remember intercourse.
It is worthy to note that she was oscillating between consciousness and
unconsciousness at the time of the incident and there was loss of lot of
blood by the time she had reached the hospital which is evident from Ex.
PW49/B-MLC. A victim who has just suffered a ghastly and extremely
frightening incident cannot be expected to immediately come out of the
state of shock and state the finest details of the incident. The subsequent
dying declarations of the prosecutrix corroborated by the medical evidence
cannot be disregarded merely on the ground that the use of iron rods is not
substantiated by the prosecutrix’s first statement. 195. The gravity and hideousness of the injuries caused to the
prosecutrix, as has already been discussed above, clearly shows the use of
iron rods by the accused. The injuries caused to the prosecutrix by
incessantly and abominably injuring her private parts using the concerned
iron rods were so grave that death was the inevitable consequence. As
already noted, both the iron rods, Ex.P-49/1 and Ex.P-49/2, were recovered
at the instance of accused Ram Singh from inside the concerned bus. The DNA
profile developed from the blood stains obtained from the iron rods is also
consistent with the DNA profile of the prosecutrix. In such circumstances,
merely because the finger prints of the accused were not obtained from the
iron rods, it cannot be concluded that the accused were not linked with the
concerned iron rods. Accused Ram Singh himself had the iron rods recovered
to the Investigating Officer. Furthermore, the dying declaration of the
prosecutrix, which is highly reliable, clearly establishes the horrendous
use of iron rods by the accused persons. 196. The iron rods were sent for forensic examination to the CFSL.
The DNA profile developed from the blood stains obtained from the iron rods
recovered at the instance of accused Ram Singh was found to be of female
origin and were found to be consistent with the DNA profile of the
prosecutrix. Hence, the factum of insertion of iron rods in the private
parts of the prosecutrix is also fortified by the scientific evidence. 197. PW-1, in his chief examination, deposed that he was severely
assaulted by the accused with iron rods on his head and the rest of his
body. It is submitted that as per MLC of PW-1, Ex.PW-51/A, the nature of
injuries sustained by PW-1 were simple. It is contended that if PW-1 was
beaten with the iron rod in the manner alleged by him, he would have
sustained more serious injuries. It is canvassed that PW-1 sustained only
simple injuries which leads to an inference that the iron rod was not used
in the manner stated by the prosecution. Of course, as per Ex.PW-51/A, PW-1
sustained simple injuries but as seen from Ex.PW-51/A, there was also nasal
bleeding from his nose and PW-1 was also vomiting. Merely because the
injuries sustained by PW-1 were opined to be of simple nature, the use of
iron rods cannot be doubted. 198. Learned counsel for the appellants further stressed on the
point that PW-1 neither in his MLC, Ex. PW-51/A, nor in his complaint,
Ex.PW1/A, mentioned the use of iron rod; the description of bus or the
names of the accused. In this regard, it has to be kept in mind that the
purpose of FIR is mainly to set the criminal law in motion and not to lay
down every minute detail and the entire gamut of the evidence relating to
the case and, therefore, non-mention of use of iron rods in the FIR does
not remotely create a dent in the case of the prosecution. When the
subsequent statements of the prosecutrix well corroborated by the medical
evidence are available, it is completely immaterial that the statement of
PW-1 does not mention the use of iron rods. Thus, PW-1’s omission to state
the factum of use of iron rods in his complaint or MLC is not fatal to the
case of the prosecution. 199. It is apposite to state here that non-mention of the use of
iron rods in PW-1’s statement has been a ground for giving rise to
suspicion of his testimony. We find it difficult to comprehend as to how PW-
1 could have been aware of any use of iron rods against the prosecutrix. PW-
1 was being held by the accused towards the front of the bus, while the
prosecutrix was being raped at the rear side of the bus and the lights of
the bus also had been turned off. His statement in his complaint, Ex.PW-
1/A, that he heard the prosecutrix shouting and crying and that her voice
was oscillating is consistent with the narration of facts as also the
medical records. 200. The second statement of the prosecutrix recorded in Ex.PW-27/A
by PW-27, Smt. Usha Chaturvedi, has detailed the account of the entire
incident specifying the role of each accused; gang rape/unnatural sex
committed upon her; and the injuries caused in her vagina and rectum by use
of iron rod and by inserting of hands by the accused are mentioned. This
statement, in fact, bears the date and signature of the prosecutrix and
records that the accused committed gang rape on her, inserted iron rod in
the vagina and through anal opening causing injuries to the internal organs
of the prosecutrix. The subsequent statement of the prosecutrix also
affirms the above facts. That apart, as per the medical opinion Ex.PW-49/G
given by PW-49, the recto-vaginal injury of the prosecutrix could be caused
by the rods recovered from the bus. Anatomy argument 201. Learned counsel for the appellants also submitted that if the
rods purported to be used had actually been inserted through the vagina, it
would have first destroyed the uterus before the intestines were pulled
out. It was submitted that there were no rods related injuries in her
uterus and medical science too does not assist the prosecution in their
claim that the iron rods were used as a weapon for penetration. Mr. Sharma
placed reliance on: 202. The aforesaid submission can be singularly rejected without
much discussion on the foundation that a question to that effect was not
put to the doctors in their respective cross-examinations. However, instead
of summary rejection, we shall deal with it for the sake of our
satisfaction and also to meet the contention. While it may be so that the
uterus, tubes and the cervix were not damaged, that does not mean that the
intestines could not have been damaged as they have been. It stands to
reason based on common understanding and medical science to allay this
contention. First, it is nowhere the stance that the rod was inserted only
through the vagina. The prosecutrix herself had stated in her dying
declarations that she was raped through the vagina as also the anus, Ex. PW-
27/A. The anus is directly connected to the intestines via the rectum and,
thus, deep penetration by use of a rod or other long object could have
caused injuries to the bowels/intestines. 203. To appreciate the above contention, it is necessary to
understand the anatomy and position of the uterus. We may profitably refer
to the following excerpts from ‘Gray’s Anatomy: Descriptive and Applied’,
34th Edn. [Orient Longman Publication] at pages 1572 and 1579: 204. The exhibits relating to injuries may be noted. OT notes from
17.12.2012 and 19.12.2012 read as under: Therefore, merely because no injuries to the uterus of the victim were
noticed, that does not lead to the conclusion that iron rod was not used.
Thus, the submission that has been raised with immense enthusiasm and
ambition to create a concavity in the case of the prosecution on this score
deserves to be repelled and we do so. Analysis of evidence pertaining to DNA 207. Having dealt with the aspect pertaining to insertion of rod, it
is apposite to advert to the medical evidence and post mortem report. We
have, while dealing with other aspects, referred to certain aspects
including DNA analysis of medical evidence but the same requires to be
critically dealt with as the prosecution has placed hevy reliance upon it. 208. DNA is the abbreviation of Deoxyribo Nucleic Acid. It is the
basic genetic material in all human body cells. It is not contained in red
blood corpuscles. It is, however, present in white corpuscles. It carries
the genetic code. DNA structure determines human character, behaviour and
body characteristics. DNA profiles are encrypted sets of numbers that
reflect a person’s DNA makeup which, in forensics, is used to identify
human beings. DNA is a complex molecule. It has a double helix structure
which can be compared with a twisted rope ‘ladder’. 209. The nature and characteristics of DNA had been succinctly
explained by Lord Justice Phillips in Regina v. Alan James Doheny & Gary
Adams[83]. In the above case, the accused were convicted relying on
results obtained by comparing DNA profiles obtained from a stain left at
the scene of the crime with DNA profiles obtained from a sample of blood
provided by the appellant. In the above context, with regard to DNA, the
following was stated by Lord Justice Phillips: 210. In the United States, in an early case Frye v. United
States[84], it was laid down that scientific evidence is admissible only if
the principle on which it is based is substantially established to have
general acceptance in the field to which it belonged. The US Supreme Court
reversed the above formulation in Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,
Inc.[85] stating thus: 211. The principle was summarized by Blackmun, J., as follows: 212. After the above judgment, the DNA Test has been frequently
applied in the United States of America. In District Attorney’s Office for
the Third Judicial District et al. v. William G. Osborne[86], Chief Justice
Roberts of the Supreme Court of United States, while referring to the DNA
Test, stated as follows: 213. DNA technology as a part of Forensic Science and scientific
discipline not only provides guidance to investigation but also supplies
the Court accrued information about the tending features of identification
of criminals. The recent advancement in modern biological research has
regularized Forensic Science resulting in radical help in the
administration of justice. In our country also like several other developed
and developing countries, DNA evidence is being increasingly relied upon by
courts. After the amendment in the Criminal Procedure Code by the insertion
of Section 53A by Act 25 of 2005, DNA profiling has now become a part of
the statutory scheme. Section 53A relates to the examination of a person
accused of rape by a medical practitioner. 214. Similarly, under Section 164A inserted by Act 25 of 2005, for
medical examination of the victim of rape, the description of material
taken from the person of the woman for DNA profiling is must. Section 53A
sub-section (2) as well as Section 164(A) sub-section (2) are to the
following effect: 215. This Court had the occasion to consider various aspects of DNA
profiling and DNA reports. K.T. Thomas, J. in Kamti Devi (Smt.) and another
v. Poshi Ram [87], observed: 216. In Pantangi Balarama Venkata Ganesh v. State of Andhra
Pradesh [88], a two-Judge Bench had explained as to what is DNA in the
following manner: 217. In Santosh Kumar Singh v. State Through CBI [89], which was a
case of a young girl who was raped and murdered, the DNA reports were
relied upon by the High Court which were approved by this Court and it was
held thus: 218. In Inspector of Police, Tamil Nadu v. John David [90], a young
boy studying in MBBS Course was brutally murdered by his senior. The torso
and head were recovered from different places which were identified by the
father of the deceased. For confirming the said facts, the blood samples of
the father and mother of the deceased were taken which were subject to DNA
test. From the DNA, the identification of the deceased was proved.
Paragraph 60 of the decision is reproduced below: 219. In Krishan Kumar Malik v. State of Haryana [91], in a gang rape
case when the prosecution did not conduct DNA test or analysis and matching
of semen of the appellant-accused with that found on the undergarments of
the prosecutrix, this Court held that after the incorporation of Section 53-
A in CrPC , it has become necessary for the prosecution to go in for DNA
test in such type of cases. The relevant paragraph is reproduced below: 220. In Surendra Koli v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others [92], the
appellant, a serial killer, was awarded death sentence which was confirmed
by the High Court. While confirming the death sentence, this Court relied
on the result of the DNA test conducted on the part of the body of the
deceased girl. Para 12 is reproduced below:- 221. In Mohammed Ajmal Mohammad Amir Kasab alias Abu Mujahid v.
State of Maharashtra [93], the accused was awarded death sentence on charges
of killing large number of innocent persons on 26th November, 2008 at
Bombay. The accused with others had come from Pakistan using a boat ‘Kuber’
and several articles were recovered from ‘Kuber’. The stains of sweat,
saliva and other bodily secretions on those articles were subjected to DNA
test and the DNA test matched with several accused. The Court observed: 222. In Sandeep v. State of Uttar Pradesh [94], the facts related to
the murder of pregnant paramour/girlfriend and unborn child of the
accused. The DNA report confirmed that the appellant was the father of the
unborn child. The Court, relying on the DNA report, stated as follows: 223. In Rajkumar v. State of Madhya Pradesh [95], the Court was
dealing with a case of rape and murder of a 14 year old girl. The DNA
report established the presence of semen of the appellant in the vaginal
swab of the prosecutrix. The conviction was recorded relying on the DNA
report. In the said context, the following was stated: 224. In Nandlal Wasudeo Badwaik v. Lata Nandlal Badwaik and
another [96], the appellant, father of the child born to his wife,
questioned the paternity of the child on the ground that she did not stay
with him for the last two years. The Court directed for DNA test. The DNA
result opined that the appellant was not the biological father of the
child. The Court also had the occasion to consider Section 112 of the
Evidence Act which raises a presumption that birth during marriage is
conclusive proof of legitimacy. The Court relied on the DNA test holding
the DNA test to be scientifically accurate. The pertinent observations are
extracted below: acceptance of the same, it is to be established that there had been no
quality control or quality assurance. If the sampling is proper and if
there is no evidence as to tampering of samples, the DNA test report is to
be accepted. 225. In order to establish a clear link between the accused persons
and the incident at hand, the prosecution has also adduced scientific
evidence in the form of DNA, fingerprint and bite mark analysis. 226. Various samples, for the purpose of DNA profiling, were lifted
from the person of the prosecutrix; the informant; the accused, their
clothes/ articles; the dumping spot; the iron rods; the ashes of partly
burnt clothes; as well as from the offending bus. PW-45, Dr. B.K.
Mohapatra, analysed the said DNA profiles and submitted his report thereof.
In his report, he concluded that the samples were authentic and capable of
establishing the identities of the persons concerned beyond reasonable
doubt. 227. After establishing the identities of each of the accused
persons, the informant and the prosecutrix through DNA analysis, the DNA
profiles generated from the remaining samples, where the identity of
biological material found thereon needed to be ascertained, were matched
with the DNA profiles of the prosecutrix, the informant and the accused,
generated earlier from known samples. Such an analysis cogently linked each
of the accused with the victims as also with the crime scene. A summary of
the findings in the report submitted by PW-45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, is as
under: 228. Further, a summary of the DNA analysis of the biological
samples lifted from the material objects such as the bus, the iron rods,
and the ash and unburnt pieces of clothes is also worth producing here: 229. PW-45, Dr. B.K. Mohapatra, has clearly testified in his cross-
examination that all the experiments conducted by him confirmed to the
guidelines and methodology documented in the Working Procedure Manuals of
the laboratory which have been validated and recommended for use in the
laboratory. He further added that once a DNA profile is generated, its
accuracy is 100%. The trial court and the High Court have consistently
noted that the counsel for the defence did not raise any substantial ground
to challenge the DNA report during the cross-examination of PW-45. In such
circumstances, there is no reason to declare the DNA report as inaccurate,
especially when it clearly links the accused persons with the incident. 230. Mr. Sharma, learned counsel appearing for appellants - Mukesh
and Pawan Kumar Gupta, submitted that in the insant case, the DNA test
cannot be treated to be accurate, for there was blood transfusion as the
prosecutrix required blood and when there is mixing of blood, the DNA
profiling is likely to differ. It is seemly to note, nothing had been put
to the expert in his cross-examination in this regard. As the authorities
relating to DNA would show, if the quality control is maintained, it is
treated to be quite accurate and as the same has been established, we are
compelled to repel the said submission of Mr. Sharma. The evidence relating to finger print analysis: 231. Next aspect that is required to be adverted is the evidence of
fingerprint analysis adduced by the prosecution to establish the identity
of the accused persons. By virtue of the finger print analysis, the
prosecution has tried mainly to establish the presence of the accused in
the offending bus. On 17.12.2012 and 18.12.2012, a team of experts from the
CFSL had lifted chance finger prints from the concerned bus, Ex.P-1, at
Thyagraj Stadium. On 28.12.2012, PW-78, Inspector Anil Sharma of P.S.
Vasant Vihar, the then S.H.O. of Police Station Vasant Vihar, requested the
Director, CFSL for taking digital palm prints and foot prints of all the
accused persons vide his letter Ex.PW-46/C. Pursuant to the said request
made by PW-78, Inspector Anil Sharma, the CFSL on 31.12.2012 took the
finger/palm prints and foot prints of the accused persons at Tihar Jail.
After comparing the chance prints lifted from the bus with the finger
prints/palm prints and foot prints of all the accused persons, PW-46, Shri
A.D. Shah, Senior Scientific Officer (Finger Prints), CFSL, CBI, submitted
his report, Ex.PW-46/D. 232. As per the report, Ex.PW-46/D, the result of the aforesaid
examination of the Finger Print Division of the CFSL, CBI, New Delhi was
that the chance prints of accused Vinay Sharma were found on the bus in
question. The relevant portion of the report is as under: This forms the basis of the opinion that these prints are identical. Eight
of them have been marked with projected red lines with their detailed
description are placed at Annexure-1)

 II. The chance print marked as Q.4 is identical with right thumb
impression of Vinay Sharma S/o Sh.Hari Ram Sharma marked here as RTS-23 on
the slip marked here as S.23 (Matching ridge characteristics have been
found in their relative positions in the chance print and specimen finger
print. This forms the basis of the opinion that these prints are identical.
Eight of them have been marked with projected red lines with their detailed
description are placed at Annexure-2).”

The above report incontrovertibly proves that accused Vinay was present in
the bus at the time of the incident. Be it noted, the other chance prints
were found to be unfit for comparison or different from specimen print. The Odontology report 233. Now, we shall analyse the Odontology report. In today’s world,
Odontology is a branch of forensic science in which dental knowledge is
applied to assist the criminal justice delivery system. S. Keiser-Nielsen,
an authority on Forensic Odontology defines the basic concept of Forensic
Odontology in the following words: 234. Professor Neilsen, elaborating on Forensic Odontology, further
states: 235. In the instant case, the prosecution has relied upon the
odontology report, i.e., bite mark analysis report prepared by PW-71, Dr.
Ashith B. Acharya, to link the incident with the accused persons. The
Odontology report links accused Ram Singh and accused Akshay with the crime
in question. 236. Dr. K.S. Narayan Reddy, in his book, Medical Jurisprudence and
Toxicology (Law, Practice and Procedure), Third Edition, 2010, Chapter VIII
page 268, has extensively dealt with human bites, their patterns, the
manner in which they should be lifted with a swab and moistened with
sterile water and the manner in which such swabs need to be handled is
delineated along with their usefulness in identification. The High Court
has also referred to the same. It is as follows: 237. After making the aforesaid observations, the author dwells upon
the various methods used for bite mark analysis including the photographic
method, which method was utilized in the instant case. The photographic
method is described as under: 238. In the present case, the photographs of bite marks taken by PW-
66, Shri Asghar Hussein, of different parts of the body of the prosecutrix
were examined by PW-71, Dr. Ashith B. Acharya. The photographs depicted the
bite marks on the body of the prosecutrix. The said bite marks found on the
body of the victim were compared with the dental models of the suspects.
The analysis showed that at least three bite marks were caused by accused
Ram Singh, whereas one bite mark has been identified to have been most
likely caused by accused Akshay. An excerpt from the report, Ex. PW- 71/C,
of PW-71, Dr. Ashith B. Acharya, has been extracted by the High Court. It
reads thus: 239. Be it noted, the present is a case where the victim's body
contained various white bite marks. Bite mark analysis play an important
role in the criminal justice system. Advanced development of technology
such as laser scanning, scanning electron microscopy or cone beam computed
tomography in forensic odontology is utilized to identify more details in
bite marks and in the individual teeth of the bite. Unlike fingerprints
and DNA, bite marks lack the specificity and durability as the human teeth
may change over time. However, bite mark evidence has other advantages in
the criminal justice system that links a specific individual to the crime
or victim. For a bite mark analysis, it must contain abundant information
and the tooth that made the mark must be quite distinctive. 240. Bite marks in skin are photographed in cases where the suspect
is apprehended. A thorough dental combination is administered after dental
examination of the suspect. Final comparison of the details of the
original mark with the dentation of the suspect is done by experts. 241. The bite marks generally include only a limited number of
teeth. The teeth and oral structure of the accused are examined by experts
and, thereafter, bite marks are compared and reports are submitted.
Forensic Odontology is a science and the most common application of
Forensic Odontology is for the purpose of identification of persons from
their tooth structure. 242. Forensic Odontology has established itself as an important and
indispensable science in medico-legal matters and expert evidence through
various reports which have been utilized by courts in the administration of
justice. In the case at hand, the report is wholly credible because of
matching of bite marks with the tooth structure of the accused persons and
there is no reason to view the same with any suspicion. Learned counsel for
the appellants would only contend that the whole thing has been stage-
managed. We are not impressed by the said submission, for the evidence
brought on record cogently establish the injuries sustained by the
prosecutrix and there is consistency between the injuries and the report.
We are not inclined to accept the hypothesis that bite marks have been
managed. Acceptability of the plea of alibi 243. Presently, we shall deal with the plea of alibi as the same has
been advanced with immense conviction. It is well settled in law that when
a plea of alibi is taken by an accused, the burden is upon him to establish
the same by positive evidence after the onus as regards the presence on the
spot is established by the prosecution. In this context, we may usefully
reproduce a few paragraphs from Binay Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar [97]: 244. The said principle has been reiterated in Gurpreet Singh v.
State of Haryana [98], Shaikh Sattar v. State of Maharashtra [99], Jitender
Kumar v. State of Haryana [100] and Vijay Pal (supra). 245. We had earlier indicated that in their Section 313 CrPC
statements, the accused have advanced the plea of alibi. Accused Pawan
Kumar Gupta @ Kaalu has taken the plea of alibi stating, inter alia, that
throughout the evening of 16.12.2012 till late night, he was in the DDA
District Park, Hauz Khas, Opposite IIT Gate, New Delhi, watching a musical
event organised in connection with Christmas Celebration and that he was
never in the bus, Ex.P1, and had not committed any offence with the
prosecutrix or with the informant. 246. Before coming to the defence evidence led by him, we may refer
to the answers given by him in response to the questions put to him in his
statement under Section 313 CrPC wherein he has admitted that mobile No.
9711927157 belongs to him. He further stated that he had consumed liquor in
the evening of 16.12.2012 and had accompanied accused Vinay Sharma to the
musical event at DDA District Park where he took more liquor and fell
unconscious and was later brought to his house by his father and uncle. He
stated that he went out in the evening of 16.12.2012 and saw a quarrel
between accused Vinay Sharma and accused Ram Singh (since deceased). Then
he returned to his jhuggi. After sometime, he came out of his jhuggi and
saw accused Vinay Sharma, his sister, mother and others going to a musical
party and so, he also went with them and took more liquor in the party and
even lost his mobile phone. Strangely enough, in his supplementary
statement recorded on 16.08.2013 under Section 313 CrPC, he stated that he
was present in the said party with his family members and friends and that
a video clip was prepared by one Ram Babu, DW-13, and that he does not
remember if he had accompanied accused Vinay Sharma to the said park on
that evening. It is in contradiction to the stand taken by him in his
earlier statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC. 247. Accused Pawan examined his father, DW-2, Shri Hira Lal Ram, who
deposed that on 16.12.2012 about 7:15 p.m., when he came to his house, he
was informed by his daughter that accused Pawan had gone to DDA District
Park, Hauz Khas. It is in contradiction to the deposition made by the other
defence witnesses who have said that accused Vinay Sharma and his family
members had left Ravi Dass Camp, Sector-3, R.K. Puram, New Delhi, about
8:00/8:30 p.m. and that accused Pawan had accompanied them. Accused Pawan
also said so in his initial statement under Section 313 CrPC. 248. DW-4, Shri Gyan Chand, the maternal uncle of accused Pawan,
deposed that he brought accused Pawan Gupta @ Kaalu to the jhuggi from the
DDA District Park and saw one Ram Charan warming his hands on a bonfire
just outside his jhuggi who came and asked him about the well- being of
accused Pawan. Ram Charan, DW-3, however, deposed that about 8:30/9:00
p.m., he was sitting inside his jhuggi with its door open and he saw
accused Pawan being brought by his uncle in drunken state. This is yet
again in contradiction to what has been deposed by the other defence
witnesses who said that accused Pawan Gupta and accused Vinay Sharma had
rather left Ravi Dass Camp, Sector-3, R.K. Puram, New Delhi about 8:00/8:30
p.m. for the DDA District Park. 249. DW-16, a shopkeeper of the locality, had deposed that he had
seen the vehicle of Shri Gyan Chand about 9:00/9:30 p.m. on 16.12.2012 when
accused Pawan Gupta was brought in drunken condition and was taken to his
jhuggi. Initially, he failed to mention if Shri Hira Ram was accompanying
Shri Gyan Chand. 250. Though the witnesses have also deposed about the taking away of
accused Pawan by 3/4 persons on 17.12.2012, yet that plea too is in
contradiction to the arrest memo Ex.PW-60/A wherein the accused is stated
to have been arrested on 18.12.2012 about 1:15 p.m. at the instance of
accused Ram Singh (since deceased). 251. Hence, there exist contradictions in the statements of the
defence witnesses produced on behalf of accused Pawan Gupta (a): qua the
timing when the accused had left his jhuggi at Ravi Dass Camp on the
fateful night of 16.12.2012 inasmuch as some of the witnesses deposed that
accused Pawan left for DDA District Park at 8:00/8:30 p.m. and some others
deposed that they saw him being brought to his jhuggi about 8:30/9:00 p.m.; (b) qua the fact if DW-2 had gone with DW-1 to the park to fetch his son;
and (c) qua the fact if accused Pawan went to the park with accused Vinay
Sharma or not. 252. Accused Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur, in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, stated that he was not in Delhi on the fateful night and
that on 15.12.2012, he had left Delhi for his village in Mahabodhi Express
on the ticket of his brother, Abhay, along with his brother’s wife and
nephew. He produced certain witnesses in his defence. DW-11, Shri
Chavinder, an auto driver from his village, deposed that he had brought
accused Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur and his family members from Anugrah
Narayan Railway Station, District Aurangabad, Bihar to his native village
Karmalahang, P.S. Tandwa, in his own auto on 16.12.2012 at 10:00 a.m. It is
interesting to note that he does not remember about any other
passenger/native who shared his auto on that day. DW-13, Sh. Raj Mohan
Singh, the father-in-law of the accused, deposed that when he reached
accused Akshay’s house, he found his son-in-law being implicated in a rape
case allegedly committed on 16.12.2012. It probably shows that DW-13 had
gone to meet Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur only when he had come to know
about his implication in the rape case and when accused Akshay Kumar Singh
@ Thakur was on the run. It is an admitted fact that the Chowkidar of P.S.
Tandwa had met father-in-law of the accused on 20.12.2012 and had informed
him about the implication of accused Akshay for the first time. If it was
so, then DW-13, Shri Raj Mohan, must have visited the house of accused
Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur either on 20.12.2012 or on 21.12.2012. 253. DW-12, DW-14 and DW-15 are all relatives of accused Akshay
Kumar Singh @ Thakur and, as observed by both the courts, they tried to
wriggle him out of the messy situation, as is the natural instinct of the
family members. However, it is to be seen that during the evidence of DW-
14, wife of accused Akshay Kumar Singh @ Thakur, she was interrupted from
answering by accused Akshay from behind on more than one occasion.
Similarly, DW-15, the sister-in-law of the accused, who had allegedly
accompanied the accused to her native village, mysteriously, was not aware
as to why her husband Abhay who was to accompany her on 15.12.2012 to the
native village did not accompany her. She was not aware of the reason which
made her husband stay behind in Delhi. Being the wife, she was expected to
know this, at least. 254. While weighing the plea of ‘alibi’, the same has to be weighed
against the positive evidence led by the prosecution, i.e., not only the
substantive evidence of PW-1 and the dying declarations, Ex.PW-27/A and
Ex.PW-30/D-1, but also against the scientific evidence, viz., the DNA
analysis, finger print analysis and bite marks analysis, the accuracy of
which is scientifically acclaimed. Considering the inconsistent and
contradictory nature of the evidence of ‘alibi’ led by the accused against
the positive evidence of the prosecution, including the scientific one, we
hold that the accused have miserably failed to discharge their burden of
absolute certainty qua their plea of ‘alibi’. The plea taken by them
appears to be an afterthought and rather may be read as an additional
circumstance against them. 255. In response to the questions put to him in his statement under Section 313 CrPC, accused Vinay had admitted that mobile No. 8285947545,
Ex.DW10/1, belongs to his mother and its SIM was lost prior to 16.12.2012
and that on 16.12.2012, at 9:30 p.m., his friend Vipin had taken his phone
to the DDA District Park and had returned it the next morning without SIM
card and memory card. 256. In response to question No. 221, he stated that about 8:00/8:30
p.m., he went to see accused Ram Singh and he had a scuffle/exchange of
fist blow and then he returned to his jhuggi. Thereafter, he left for
musical party with his sister, mother and others. He did not say if his
father had accompanied them. He also told that about 11:30 p.m., he had
returned to his jhuggi. 257. It is worthy to note that the prosecution had proved the Call
Detail Record, Ex.PW-22/B, of the phone of accused Vinay Sharma, having SIM
No. 8285947545, admittedly in the name of his mother, Smt. Champa Devi, but
in the possession of accused Vinay Sharma in the evening of 16.12.2012 and
allegedly snatched by one Vipin in the said music party and returned to him
in the morning of 17.12.2012 without SIM card and memory card. The Call
Detail Record Ex.PW-22/B does show that the accused had been making calls
to one particular number, viz., 8601274533 from 15.12.2012 till 20:19:37 of
17.12.2012. The authenticity of the CDR is proved under Section 65-B of the
Indian Evidence Act. If the accused was not having a SIM card in his phone
No. 8285947545, then how could he have called from this SIM on 15.12.2012,
then on 16.12.2012 and in the morning of 17.12.2012 till about 8:23:42 p.m. 258. The accused rather said that his SIM and memory card were not
in his phone when it was returned by his friend Vipin and that the phone
was not with him at 9:55:21 when it registered a call for 58 seconds and
when his location was found near IGI Airport, i.e., the road covered by the
Route Map, Ex.PW-80/H, where the bus, Ex.P1, was moving on that night.
Further, if as per accused Vinay Sharma he had no memory card and SIM card
in his mobile phone, then the question of making of a video clip from his
mobile phone by his friend DW-10, Shri Ram Babu, does not arise. Even his
personal search memo Ex.PW-60/D does not show that the said mobile phone,
when seized, had any memory card in it. The intention of the accused
appears to be to wriggle himself out of explaining the receipt of call on
his mobile at 9:55 p.m. on 16.12.2012. 259. After referring to the decision in Ram Singh and others v. Col .
Ram Singh[101], the trial Court has held that accused Vinay had miserably
failed to prove the authenticity of the video clip in terms of the above
judgment. The accused had failed to show if DW-10, Ram Babu, aged 15 years,
was ever competent to record the clip and how such device was preserved.
Admittedly by him, the memory card was not in the phone when returned to
him by his friend, Vipin. It is also not shown in the seizure memo Ex.PW-
60/D that the mobile, Ex.DW-10/1, was seized along with memory card. Thus,
it raises a doubt as to how and by whom this memory card was later inserted
in his phone, Ex.DW-10/1, and how and when the video clip was taken and
whether there was any tampering, etc. and thus, the compliance of Section
65-B of the Indian Evidence Act was mandatory in these circumstances to
ensure the purity of the evidence and in its absence, it would be difficult
to rely upon such evidence. 260. Even otherwise, in the alternative, the properties of mobile
Ex.DW-10/1 show the timing of the video clip as 8:16 p.m. of 16.12.2012
which is patently false because as per the defence witnesses, accused Vinay
Sharma with his family had left Ravi Dass Camp at 8:00/8:30 p.m. and as per
Smt. Champa Devi, DW-5, it takes about one hour on foot to reach the DDA
District Park and, thus, even if we believe their theory, then also accused
Vinay Sharma and accused Pawan Gupta @ Kaalu were not in the park at 8:16
p.m. on 16.12.2012. 261. Vinay Sharma’s mother, Smt. Champa Devi, DW-5, deposed that her
son, accused Vinay Sharma, had gone to meet accused Ram Singh (since
deceased), about 8:00 p.m. on 16.12.2012 and he had a quarrel with Ram
Singh, he was beaten and then the accused returned to his jhuggi.
Thereafter, accused Vinay Sharma accompanied her to DDA District Park, Hauz
Khas, Opposite IIT Gate, New Delhi to watch a musical programme and stayed
in the park till late in the night. His mother does not speak if her
husband had also accompanied her to the said DDA District Park but DW-6
deposed that his son had returned about 8:00 p.m. after the quarrel and
then they had gone to the said DDA District Park. DW-7, Shri Kishore Kumar
Bhat, also deposed that about 8:00/8:30 p.m., he was in his jhuggi when the
father of accused Vinay Sharma with his children came to his jhuggi and
they all went to DDA District Park. He has also stated that a musical
programme was organized by St. Thomas Church, Sector-2, R.K. Puram, New
Delhi, in the said DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, on that night. 262. DW-9, Shri Manu Sharma, deposed that he went with accused Vinay
Sharma to reason with accused Ram Singh (since deceased) but accused Vinay
Sharma had stated that his brother had accompanied him to meet accused Ram
Singh (since deceased). Further, DW-9, Manu Sharma, stated that he had
accompanied accused Vinay Sharma to the musical event but accused Vinay
Sharma did not say so. 263. Hence, as per the statement of accused Vinay Sharma (under Section 313 CrPC) and as per the statements of the defence witnesses,
accused Vinay Sharma and his family with accused Pawan Gupta @ Kaalu had
left Ravi Dass Camp about 8:15 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. and as per DW-5, Smt.
Champa Devi, it takes about an hour to reach the DDA District Park, Hauz
Khas, on foot, so even according to them, they allegedly reached the park
about 9:15 p.m. or 9:30 p.m. Thus, from this angle too, the video clip
showing the accused in the park on 16.12.2012 about 8:16 p.m. appears to
have been tampered. 264. PW-83, Shri Angad Singh, the Deputy Director (Horticulture),
DDA, had deposed that no such permission was ever granted by any authority
to organize any such function in the evening of 16.12.2012 in the said DDA
District Park, Hauz Khas, New Delhi and that no function was ever organized
in the park on 16.12.2012 by anyone. PW-84, Father George Manimala of St.
Thomas Church, as also PW-85, Brother R.P. Samual, Secretary, Ebenezer
Assembly Church, deposed that their Church(es) never organized any musical
programme/event in the DDA District Park, Hauz Khas, in the evening of
Sunday, i.e., on 16.12.2012. Rather, they deposed that on Sundays, there is
always a mass prayer in the church and there is no question of organizing
any programme outside the Church premises and that even otherwise, they
have their own space/lawn within the Church premises where they can hold
such type of programmes/functions. 265. Though Shri Singh, learned counsel for the respective
appellants, tried to press upon a document, Ex.PW-84/B, a programme
pamphlet of St. Thomas Church wherein it was mentioned that the Church was
holding programmes of “Carol Singing” from 10.12.2012 to 23.12.2012 at 7:00
p.m. at public places, yet in view of the categorical denial by PW-84 and
PW-85 that any such programme was organized by the Church on 16.12.2012 in
the DDA District Park, opposite IIT Gate, Hauz Khas, New Delhi, the plea
has no substance. 266. It is settled in law that while raising a plea of ‘alibi’, the
burden squarely lies upon the accused person to establish the plea
convincingly by adducing cogent evidence. The plea of ‘alibi’ that accused
Vinay Sharma and accused Pawan Gupta @ Kaalu had attended the alleged
musical programme in the evening of 16.12.2012 in the DDA District Park,
Hauz Khas, opposite IIT Gate, New Delhi, has been rightly rejected by the
trial court which has been given the stamp of approval by the High Court. Criminal conspiracy 267. The next aspect that we intend to address pertains to criminal
conspiracy. The accused persons before us were charge-sheeted for the
offence of criminal conspiracy within the meaning of Section 120A IPC apart
from other offences. The trial court found all the accused guilty of the
offence under Section 120B IPC and awarded life imprisonment alongwith a
fine of Rs. 5,000/- to each of the convicts. The High Court has also
affirmed their conviction under Section 120B after recording concurrent
findings. 268. Before analysing the present facts with reference to Section
120A IPC in order to find out whether the charge of criminal conspiracy is
proved in respect of each of the accused, it is pertinent to note the
actual nature and purport of Section 120A IPC and allied provisions. Section 120A IPC as contained in Chapter V-A defines the offence of
criminal conspiracy. The provision was inserted in the IPC by virtue of Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1913 . Section 120A IPC reads as under: 269. Section 120B being pertinent is reproduced below: 270. The underlying purpose for the insertion of Sections 120A and 120B IPC was to make a mere agreement to do an illegal act or an act which
is not illegal by illegal means punishable under law. The criminal
thoughts in the mind when take concrete shape of an agreement to do or
cause to be done an illegal act or an act which is not illegal by illegal
means than even if nothing further is done an agreement is designated as a
criminal conspiracy. The proviso to Section 120A engrafts a limitation
that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to
a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides the agreement is done by one
or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof. 271. By insertion of Chapter V-A in IPC , the understanding of
criminal conspiracy in the Indian context has become akin to that in
England. The illegal act may or may not be done in pursuance of an
agreement but the mere formation of an agreement is an offence and is
punishable. The law relating to conspiracy in England has been put forth in
Halsbury's Laws of England (vide 5th Ed. Vol.25, page 73) as under: 272. The English law on ‘conspiracy’ has been succinctly explained
by Russell on Crimes (12th Ed. Vol. 1 page 202) in the following passage: 273. Coleridge J. in R. v. Murphy[102] explained ‘conspiracy’ in the
following words: 274. Lord Brampton of the House of Lords in Quinn v. Leatham[103]
had aptly defined conspiracy which definition was engrafted in Sections
120A and 120B IPC. Following was stated by the House of Lords: 275. A perusal of the above shows that in order to constitute an
offence of criminal conspiracy, two or more persons must agree to do an
illegal act or an act which if not illegal by illegal means. This Court on
several occasions has explained and elaborated the element of conspiracy as
contained in our penal law. In Noor Mohammad Mohd. Yusuf Momin vs State of
Maharashtra [104], this Court has observed: 276. In E.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay [105], the following was
stated: 277. A three-Judge Bench in Yash Pal Mittal v. State of Punjab [106]
had noted the ingredients of the offence of criminal conspiracy and held: They were also charged along with the appellant under Section 120-B IPC.
The object of criminal conspiracy is absolutely clear and there is no
substance in the argument that the object is merely to cheat simpliciter
under Section 417 , IPC.” 278. Certainly, entering into an agreement by two or more persons to
do an illegal act or legal act by illegal means is essential to the offence
of criminal conspiracy as has been rightly emphasized by this Court in Kehar Singh and Ors. v. State (Delhi Administration )[107]. In the said
case, the court further stressed upon the relevance of circumstantial
evidence in proving conspiracy as direct evidence in such cases is almost
impossible to adduce. 279. In the said case, K. Jagannatha Shetty, J., in his concurring
opinion, has also elaborated the concept of conspiracy to the following
effect: 280. In Saju v. State of Kerala [108], explaining the concept of
conspiracy, this Court stated the following: 281. In Mir Nagvi Askari v. Central Bureau of Investigation [109],
this Court reiterated the various facets of ‘criminal conspiracy’ and laid
down as follows: Condition precedent for holding the accused persons to be guilty of a
charge of criminal conspiracy must, therefore, be considered on the anvil
of the fact which must be established by the prosecution viz. meeting of
minds of two or more persons for doing or causing to be done an illegal act
or an act by illegal means. 62. The courts, however, while drawing an inference from the materials
brought on record to arrive at a finding as to whether the charges of the
criminal conspiracy have been proved or not, must always bear in mind that
a conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it is difficult, if not impossible,
to obtain direct evidence to establish the same. The manner and
circumstances in which the offences have been committed and the accused
persons took part are relevant. For the said purpose, it is necessary to
prove that the propounders had expressly agreed to it or caused it to be
done, and it may also be proved by adduction of circumstantial evidence
and/or by necessary implication. (See Mohd. Usman Mohammad Hussain Maniyar
v. State of Maharashtra [110].) 282. In Pratapbhai Hamirbhai Solanki v. State of Gujrat and
another[111], this Court explained the ingredients of ‘criminal conspiracy’
as under: 283. As already stated, in a criminal conspiracy, meeting of minds
of two or more persons for doing an illegal act is the sine qua non but
proving this by direct proof is not possible. Hence, conspiracy and its
objective can be inferred from the surrounding circumstances and the
conduct of the accused. Moreover, it is also relevant to note that
conspiracy being a continuing offence continues to subsist till it is
executed or rescinded or frustrated by the choice of necessity. In K. R.
Purushothaman  v. State of Kerala [115], the Court has made the following
observations with regard to the formation and rescission of an agreement
constituting criminal conspiracy: 284. After referring to a catena of judicial pronouncements and
authorities, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in State through
Superintendent of Police, CBI/SIT v. Nalini and others[116] summarised the
principles relating to criminal conspiracy as under: 285. The rationale of conspiracy is that the required objective
manifestation of disposition of criminality is provided by the act of
agreement. Conspiracy is a clandestine activity. Persons generally do not
form illegal covenants openly. In the interest of security, a person may
carry out his part of a conspiracy without even being informed of the
identity of his co-conspirators. An agreement of this kind can rarely be
shown by direct proof; it must be inferred from the circumstantial evidence
of co-operation between the accused. What people do is, of course,
evidence of what lies in their minds. To convict a person of conspiracy,
the prosecution must show that he agreed with others that they would
together accomplish the unlawful object of the conspiracy. [See: Firozuddin
Basheeruddin and others v. State of Kerala [117]] 286. In Suresh Chandra Bahri v. State of Bihar [118], this Court
reiterated that the essential ingredient of criminal conspiracy is the
agreement to commit an offence. After referring to the judgments in Noor
Mohd. Mohd. Yusuf Momi (supra) and V.C. Shukla v. State (Delhi Admn. )[119],
 it was held in S.C. Bahri (supra) as under: 287. From the law discussed above, it becomes clear that the
prosecution must adduce evidence to prove that: 288. In the case at hand, the prosecution has examined PW-82 to
prove the charges of conspiracy and for further identification of all the
accused persons in the bus on the date of the incident. He has also been
presented to support the prosecution case that immediately preceding the
fateful incident, all the accused persons had, in execution of their
conspiracy, been robbing/merry-making with passengers on the road. 289. The defence has controverted the testimony of PW-82 on several
aspects which has already been discussed before. It has been alleged that
Ram Adhar, PW-82, is a planted witness who was brought in by the
investigators to fill the lacunae, if any, in their investigation and to
further make a strong case against the accused persons. The defence has
further denied the presence of accused Mukesh at the scene of the crime.
Accused Vinay and accused Akshay have also raised the plea of alibi which
has been dealt with separately by us. Regardless of the fact that we have
found the testimony of PW-82 to be creditworthy, even if the same is not
taken into account for the purpose of establishing that the accused acted
in concert with each other to commit heinous offences against the victim,
the testimony of PW-1 coupled with the dying declarations of the
prosecutrix irrefragably establish the charge under Section 120B against
all the accused persons. 290. First of all, in order to prove the presence of all the accused
on board the bus where the entire incident took place, the prosecution has
relied upon the testimony of PW-1, PW-82, PW-16 and, most importantly, the
dying declarations of the prosecutrix. 291. As per the records, PW-82 has testified to the effect that on
the date of the incident, about 8:30 p.m., he had boarded the concerned bus
from Munirka Bus Stand, New Delhi, on noticing that the conductor of the
bus sought commuters for Khanpur. However, he was later informed that he
would be dropped at Nehru Place instead of Khanpur. When PW-82 tried to get
down the bus, he was wrongfully confined, attacked by the persons inside
the bus who robbed him of his belongings, viz., Rs.1500/- in cash and a
mobile phone, and he was then thrown out of the moving bus. During the
trial, PW-82 has identified all the four accused persons, viz., Akshay
Kumar Singh @ Thakur, Pawan Gupta, Vinay Sharma and accused Mukesh, present
in the concerned bus at the time of the incident. PW-82 had lodged the
complaint on 18.12.2012 on the basis of which FIR No. 414 of 2012 was
registered at P.S. Vasant Vihar, New Delhi under Sections 365 , 397 , 342 IPC. 292. Learned senior counsel for the State, Mr. Luthra, has submitted
that PW-82 had been examined to establish the conduct of the accused on the
aspect of conspiracy and also to establish the identity of the accused
persons before the trial court. It was further submitted that PW-82, Ram
Adhar, identified all the four accused in the court, namely, Akshay Kumar
Singh @ Thakur, Pawan Gupta, Vinay Sharma and Mukesh besides two others
present inside the bus and also identified Mukesh as driving the bus and
stated that others took him inside the bus and robbed him and attacked him. 293. The contention of the appellants is that the testimony of PW-82
is not bereft of doubt for several reasons, namely, a) delay in lodging
FIR, b) non-examination of Sanjiv Bhai as a witness, c) he has stated that
he heard the person with the burnt hand say “Mukesh, tez chalao”, d) apart
from that, he does not mention that he heard the names of any of the
accused, and e) he had not visited a doctor/hospital despite stating that
he had injuries on his face which prevented him from registering an FIR. 294. Regarding the alleged incident of attack on PW-82 by the
accused, it was submitted that the said case against the accused ended in
conviction and the same is pending in appeal. In respect of the
credibility of the testimony of PW-82 as to the commission of the offence,
we are not inclined to take into account the evidence of PW-82 except on
one limited aspect, that is, the presence of the accused in the bus, Ex.P1,
on the night of 16.12.2012 since PW-82’s presence in the bus on the night
of 16.12.2012 is admitted. In his statement under Section 313 CrPC, Mukesh-
A2 admitted that PW-82 had boarded the offending bus prior to the boarding
of the bus by the informant and the victim. The relevant portion of his
statement is extracted as under: 295. The evidence of PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, the owner of the offending
bus, indicates accused Ram Singh, A-1, (since deceased) as the driver of
the bus and Akshay Kumar as the cleaner of the bus which is further shown
in the attendance register of the bus exhibited as Ex.PW-80/K. The evidence
of PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, is corroborated by the entries made in the
attendance register where in the driver’s page at Sl. No. 5, the name of
accused Ram Singh (since deceased) is written against bus No. 0149 and at
Sl.No. 15, the name of Akshay is written as helper against bus No. 0149.
As stated earlier, the bus bearing Registration No.DL-1PC-0149 was one of
the buses hired by Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi and
the fact that the driver of the bus at the relevant time was Ram Singh is
sought to be proved by the prosecution through the testimony of PW-16,
Rajeev Jakhmola, Manager (Administration) of the said school. The said
witness has testified that one Dinesh Yadav, PW-81, had provided seven
buses to the school including bus bearing No. DL-1PC-0149 for the purpose
of ferrying the children of the school. The driver of this bus was one Ram
Singh, son of Mange Lal. The documents relating to the bus including the
photocopies of the agreement between the school and the bus contractor,
copy of the driving licence of Ram Singh, A-1, and the letter of
termination dated 18.12.2012 with “Yadav Travels” were furnished to the
Investigating Officer, SI Pratibha Sharma, vide his letter dated
25.12.2012, exhibited as Ex.PW-16/A (colly.). From the evidence of PW-16,
Rajeev Jakhmola, it stands proved that the bus in question was routinely
driven by Ram Singh (since deceased). The statement of PW-16, Rajeev
Jakhmola, is corroborated by the testimony of PW-81, Dinesh Yadav.
Significantly, PW-81, Dinesh Yadav, further testified: She has stated in her evidence that her son, Vinay Sharma, A-4, who
returned home at 4:00 p.m. on 16.12.2012, went in search of A-1 on hearing
about the misbehaviour of A-1, Ram Singh (since deceased), with his sister
and was able to trace him by 8:00 p.m. and that her son Vinay Sharma, A-4,
had quarreled with Ram Singh, A-1. She has deposed in her evidence that her
son Vinay Sharma returned bleeding from his mouth and after some time they
had left to the DDA District Park to attend a musical programme where they
had met A-5, Pawan alias Kaalu, alongwith two others. 300. The prosecution has, thus, established that the accused were
associated with each other. The criminal acts done in furtherance of
conspiracy is established by the sequence of events and the conduct of the
accused. An important facet of the law of conspiracy is that apart from it
being a distinct offence, all conspirators are liable for the acts of each
other of the crime or crimes which have been committed as a result of the
conspiracy. Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act which reads as under is
relevant in this context: 301. Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act begins with the phrase
“where there is reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have
conspired together to commit an offence” which implies that if prima facie
evidence of the existence of a conspiracy is given and accepted, the
evidence of acts and statements made by any one of the conspirators in
furtherance of the common intention is admissible against all. In the facts
of the present case, the prima facie evidence of the existence of
conspiracy is well established. 302. The informant, PW-1, has also deposed as to the clarity of the
entire incident. He has identified all the accused to be present in the bus
when he had boarded the same with the prosecutrix. He has maintained that
he saw three persons sitting in the driver's cabin who were moving in and
out of the cabin. Both the informant and the prosecutrix had sensed some
sort of hostility and strangeness in the behaviour of the accused. But, as
they had paid for the ticket, they quietly kept sitting. Soon they found
that the lights in the bus were put off and the accused Ram Singh (since
deceased) and accused Akshay came near them to ask where PW1 was heading
with the prosecutrix at that odd time of the evening. PW-1, on objecting to
such a query, was beaten and pinned down by the accused. Thereafter, all
the accused, one after the other, committed rape and unnatural sex on the
prosecutrix using iron rods which has been explicitly described by the
prosecutrix herself in her dying declarations recorded by PW-27, Sub-
Divisional Magistrate, and PW-30, Metropolitan Magistrate. The relevant
portion of the second dying declaration of the prosecutrix as contained in
Ex.PW-27/A is as under: 303. The chain of events described by the prosecutrix in her dying
declarations coupled with the testimonies of the other witnesses clearly
establish that as soon as the informant and the prosecutrix boarded the
bus, the accused persons formed an agreement to commit heinous offences
against the victim. Forcefully having sexual intercourse with the
prosecutrix, one after the other, inserting iron rod in her private parts,
dragging her by her hair and then throwing her out of the bus all establish
the common intent of the accused to rape and murder the prosecutrix. The
trial court has rightly recorded that the prosecutrix’s alimentary canal
from the level of duodenum upto 5 cm of anal sphincter was completely
damaged. It was beyond repair. Causing of damage to the jejunum is
indicative of the fact that the rod was inserted through the vagina and/or
anus upto the level of jejunum. Further, septicemia was the direct result
of multiple internal injuries. Moreover, the prosecutrix has also
maintained in her dying declaration that the accused persons were exhorting
that the prosecutrix had died and she be thrown out of the bus. Ultimately,
both the prosecutrix as well as the informant were thrown out of the moving
bus through the front door by the accused after having failed to throw them
through the rear door. The conduct of the accused in committing heinous
offences with the prosecutrix in concert with each other and thereafter
throwing her out of the bus in an unconscious state alongwith PW-1
unequivocaly bring home the charge under Section 120B in case of each of
them. The criminal acts done in furtherance of the conspiracy is evident
from the acts and also the words uttered during the commission of the
offence. Therefore, we do not have the slightest hesitation in holding that
the trial court and the High Court have correctly considered the entire
case on the touchstone of well-recognised principles for arriving at the
conclusion of criminal conspiracy. The prosecution has been able to unfurl
the case relating to criminal conspiracy by placing the materials on record
and connecting the chain of circumstances. The relevant evidence on record
lead to a singular conclusion that the accused persons are liable for
criminal conspiracy and their confessions to counter the same deserve to be
repelled. Summary of conclusions: 304. From the critical analysis, keen appreciation of the evidence
and studied scrutiny of the oral evidence and other materials, we arrive at
the following conclusions: 305. Now we shall proceed to sentencing. A submission was raised
that provisions of Section 235(2) CrPC was not complied with. The said
provision reads as follows: 306. While discussing Section 235(2) CrPC, this Court, in Santa
Singh v. State of Punjab [120], observed as follows: 307. A three-Judge Bench in Dagdu and others v. State of
Maharashtra [121] considered the object and scope of Section 235(2) CrPC and
held that: 308. Mr. Raju Ramachandran, learned amicus curiae, submitted that
the sentence passed by the trial court that has been confirmed by the High
Court ought to be set aside as they have not followed the fundamental norms
of sentencing and have not been guided by the paramount beacons of
legislative policy discernible from Section 354(3) and Section 235(2) CrPC.
It is urged by him that the import of Section 235 CrPC is not only to hear
the submissions orally but also to afford an opportunity to the prosecution
and the defence to place the relevant material having bearing on the
question of sentence. Learned amicus curiae would submit that the trial
court as well as the High Court has failed to put any of the accused
persons to notice on the question of imposition of death sentence; that
sufficient time was not granted to reflect on the question of death
penalty; that none of the accused persons were heard in person; that the
learned trial Judge has failed to elicit those circumstances of the accused
which would have a bearing on the question of sentence, especially the
mitigating factors in a case where death penalty is imposed; that no
separate reasons were ascribed for the imposition of death penalty on each
of the accused; and that it was obligatory on the part of the learned trial
Judge to individually afford an opportunity to the accused persons.
Learned amicus curiae would submit that the learned trial Judge has
pronounced the sentence in a routine manner which vitiates the sentence
inasmuch as the solemn duty of the sentencing court has not been kept in
view. Mr. Ramachandran had emphatically put forth that denial of an
individualized sentencing process results in the denial of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the
respondent-State, submitted that the learned trial Judge had heard the
accused persons and there has been compliance with Section 235(2) CrPC and
the High Court has appositely concurred with the same. 309. Be it stated, after hearing the learned counsel for the both
sides and the learned amicus curiae, the Court, on 03.02.2017, passed the
following order: 310. After passing of the said order, the hearing continued and on
13.02.2017, the following order was passed: Mr. Manohar Lal Sharma, learned counsel submits that a report was
asked for from the Superintendent of Jail with regard to the conduct of the
accused persons while they are in custody, but the same has not directly
been filed by the Superintendent of Jail. Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondent-
State, would, per contra, contend that he has filed the affidavit and the
affidavit contains the report of the Superintendent of Jail. In our considered opinion, the Superintendent of Jail should have
filed the report with regard to the conduct of the accused persons since
they are in custody for almost four years. That would have thrown light on
their conduct. Let the report with regard to their conduct be filed by the
Superintendent of Jail in a sealed cover in the Court on the next date of
hearing. As far as the affidavit filed by Mukesh is concerned, Mr. Sharma,
learned counsel stated that he will keep the aspects which are required to
be highlighted in mind and file a further affidavit within a week hence. The direction issued on the earlier occasion with regard to the visit of
jail by the learned counsel for the parties shall remain in force till the
next date of hearing. Let the matter be listed at 2.00 p.m. on 20.3.2017. The report of the
Superintendent of Jail, as directed hereinabove, shall be filed in Court on
that date.” 312. Thereafter, the matter was heard on 20.03.2017 and the
following order came to be passed: 313. Be it noted, we have heard the learned counsel appearing for
the parties, Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel for the respondent-State,
Mr. Ramachandran and Mr. Hegde on the question of sentence. Before we
advert to the principles for imposition of sentence, we think it
appropriate to deal with the affidavits filed by the accused. For the sake
of convenience, it is necessary to make a summary of the affidavits. 314. Accused Mukesh, A-2, filed his statement, written in his own
hand-writing in Hindi, denying his involvement in the occurrence and
pleading innocence. He stated that on 17.12.2012, he was picked up from his
house at Karoli, Rajasthan and brought to Delhi where the police tortured
him and threatened to kill him. Therefore, he acted as per the direction of
the police and V.K. Anand, Advocate. He further stated that he is
uneducated and poor, but not a criminal and if he is acquitted, he would go
back to Karoli, Rajasthan and would take care of his parents. 315. Accused Akshay Kumar Singh, A-3, has stated that he hails from
a naxal affected area in District Aurangabad, Bihar and due to poverty, he
could not continue his studies beyond 9th class. He has stated that his
aged father Shri Saryu Singh and mother, Smt. Malti Devi, are dependent on
him. He has further stated that he is married to Punita Devi since 2010 and
they have a son, now aged about six years. He further stated that due to
poverty and lack of adequate opportunity in home town, he came to Delhi in
the month of November 2012 to earn his livelihood. To maintain his
dependants which include his parents, wife and child, he started working as
a cleaner in the concerned bus at a wage of Rs.50/- per day. He reiterated
his plea of alibi asserting that he had left Delhi on 15.12.2012 in
Mahabodhi Express accompanied by his sister-in-law, Sarita Devi, and went
to his native place Karmalahang where he was arrested. He further stated
that after his confinement in Tihar Jail, he has been maintaining good
behaviour and is working hard as a labourer in the prison to maintain his
family. 316. Accused Vinay Sharma, A-4, in his affidavit stated that he was
born in Kapiya Kalan, Tehsil Rudra Nagar, District Basti, Uttar Pradesh and
that his parents used to work as labourers and that his family is very
poor. The accused stated that he used to take care of his grandfather who
was a religious saint and up to July, 2012, he was studying at his native
place in Uttar Pradesh and only after July, 2012, he came to Delhi to
pursue his further studies. He has stated that he got himself admitted to
the University of Delhi, School of Open Learning, Delhi and to earn his
livelihood, he worked as a part-time instructor in gym and also as a
seasonal waiter in hotels and marriage ceremonies at night. Accused Vinay
Sharma further stated that he has to take care of his ailing parents and
also his younger sisters and younger brother, who are totally dependent on
him. In his affidavit, he reiterated his plea of alibi asserting that on
the fateful day, he had participated in the Christmas celebration and was
enjoying there with his family. The accused has further stated that he has
no criminal antecedents and after his confinement in Tihar Jail, he has
maintained good behaviour and has also organized various musical programmes
and his paintings are displayed in Tihar Jail. 317. Accused Pawan Gupta, A-5, filed his affidavit stating that he
comes from a very poor family where his father used to sell fruits on the
road for their living. He further stated that he is a resident of Cluster
Jhuggi Basti and was assisting his father in selling fruits on a cart. The
accused also illustrated the ailing condition of his family stating that
his parents are heart patients and his mother is a handicapped person
suffering from BP and thyroid. He also stated that his younger sister,
Dimple Gupta, was under depression on account of the false implication of
her brother in the present case and could not tolerate humiliation by the
society and she has committed suicide on 09.02.2013. Apart from that, he
has to look after his dependant parents and two other sisters, one married
and the other unmarried and aged 17 years, and one younger brother. On
behalf of accused Pawan Gupta, fervent plea was made that he has no prior
criminal antecedent and after being confined to Central Jail, Tihar, he is
trying to reform himself into a better person. 318. Mr. Ramachandran, learned amicus curiae, criticized the
sentence, placed reliance on Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab [123] and
submitted that the trial court and the High Court have committed the error
of not applying the doctrine of equality which prescribes similar treatment
to similar persons and stated that the Court in Bachan Singh (supra) has
categorically held that the extreme penalty can be inflicted only in
gravest cases of extreme culpability; in making the choice of sentence, in
addition to the circumstances of the offence, due regard must be paid to
the circumstances of the offender also; and that the mitigating
circumstances referred therein are undoubtedly relevant and must be given
great weight in the determination of sentence. Further placing reliance on Machhi Singh v. State of Punjab [124], it is submitted by learned amicus
curiae that in the said case, the Court held that a balance sheet of the
aggravating and mitigating circumstances should be drawn up and the
mitigating circumstances should be accorded full weightage and a just
balance should be struck between the aggravating and mitigating
circumstances. He further pointed out number of decisions wherein this
Court has given considerable weight to the circumstances of the criminal
and commuted the sentence to life imprisonment. 319. Mr. Ramachandran further urged that in the present case, the
decision in Bachan Singh (supra) was completely disregarded and the trial
court, while sentencing the accused, only placed emphasis on the brutal and
heinous nature of the crime and the mitigating factors including the
possibility of reform and rehabilitation were ruled out on the basis of the
nature of the crime and not on its own merits. It is further contended by
him that in Sangeet and another v. State of Haryana [125] and Shankar
Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra [126], the decisions, i.e., Shiv v.
High Court of Karnataka[127], B.A.Umesh v. Registrar General, High Court
of Karnataka[128] and Dhananjoy Chaterjee v. State of West Bengal [129],
relied upon by the Special Public Prosecutor and the High Court, have been
doubted by this Court. 320. Learned amicus curiae has further propounded that sentencing
and non-consideration of the mitigating circumstances are violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. It is his submission that the
prosecution’s argument on aggravating circumstances gets buttressed by the
material on record while the plea of mitigating circumstances rests solely
on arguments and this imbalance is a serious violation of the doctrine of
fairness and reasonableness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution;
that there should be a fair and principle-based sentencing process in death
penalty cases by which a genuine and conscious attempt is made to
investigate and evaluate the circumstances of the criminal; that the fair
and principled approaches are facets of Article 14; and that if the
enumeration and evaluation of mitigating factors are left only to the
accused or his counsel and the Court does not accord a principle-based
treatment, the imposition of death penalty will be rendered the norm and
not the exception, which is an inversion of the Bachan Singh (supra) logic
and a serious violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. 321. Mr. Ramachandran submitted that the trial court and the High
Court failed to pay due regard to the mitigating factors; that the courts
have committed the mistake of rejecting the mitigating factors by reasoning
that it may not be sufficient for awarding life sentence; and that the
courts have not considered all the mitigating factors cumulatively to
arrive at the conclusion whether the case fell within the rarest of rare
category. He has referred to the Constitution Bench decision in Triveniben
v. State of Gujarat [130] wherein Shetty, J. in his concurring opinion,
opined that death sentence cannot be given if there is any one mitigating
circumstance in favour of the accused and all circumstances of the case
should be aggravating and submitted that this line of judicial thought has
been completely ignored by the High Court and the trial court. 322. Learned amicus curiae further contended that the attribution of
individual role with respect to the iron rod, which was a crucial
consideration in convicting the accused under Section 302 IPC, was not
considered by the trial court or the High Court in the sentencing process
and stressed that when life imprisonment is the norm and death penalty the
exception, the lack of individual role has tobe regarded as a major
mitigating circumstance. In this regard, reliance has been placed by him
on Karnesh Singh v. State of U.P. [131], Ronny v. State of Maharashtra [132], Nirmal Singh v. State of Haryana [133] and Sahdeo v. State of U.P [134]. 323. Mr. Ramachandran has also contended that subsequent to the
pronouncement in Machhi Singh (supra), there are series of decisions by
this Court where the Court has given considerable weight to the concept of
reformation and rehabilitation and commuted the sentence to life
imprisonment. According to him, young age is a mitigating factor and this
Court has taken note of the same in Raghubir Singh v. State of
Haryana [135], Harnam Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh [136], Amit v. State of
Maharashtra [137], Rahul v. State of Maharashtra [138], Rameshbhai Chandubhai
Rathod v. State of Gujarat [139], Santosh Kumar Bariyar v. State of
Maharashtra [140], Sebastian v. State of Kerala [141], Santosh Kumar Singh (supra), Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod II v. State of Gujarat [142], Amit v.
State of Uttar Pradesh [143] and Lalit Kumar Yadav v. State of Uttar
Pradesh [144]. That apart, it is urged by him that when the crime is not
pre-meditated, the same becomes a mitigating factor and that has been taken
note of by this Court in the authorities in Akhtar v State of Uttar
Pradesh [145], Raju v. State of Haryana [146] and Amrit Singh v. State of
Punjab [147]. 324. Learned amicus curiae would further urge that when the criminal
antecedents are lacking and the prosecution has not been able to say about
that the appellants deserve imposition of lesser sentence. For the said
purpose, he has commended us to the authorities in Nirmal Singh (supra), Raju v. State of Haryana (supra), Amit v. State of Maharashtra (supra),
Surender Pal v. State of Gujarat[148], Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod II (supra), Amit v. State of Uttar Pradesh (supra), Anil v. State of
Maharashtra[149] and Lalit Kumar Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh [150]. 325. Learned senior counsel has emphasized on the reform,
rehabilitation and absence of any continuing threat to the collective which
are factors to be taken into consideration for the purpose of commutation
of death penalty to life imprisonment. In this regard, learned senior
counsel has drawn inspiration from the decisions in Ronny (supra), Nirmal
Singh (supra), Bantu v. State of Madhya Pradesh [151], Lehna (supra), Rahul (supra), Santosh Kumar Bariyar (supra), Santosh Kumar Singh (supra), Rajesh
Kumar v. State [152], Amit v. State of Uttar Pradesh (supra), Ramnaresh v.
State of Chhattisgarh[153], Sandesh v. State of Maharashtra [154] and Lalit
Kumar Yadav (supra). 326. Mr. Ramachandran has also submitted that the present case
should be treated as a special category as has been held in Swamy
Shradhananda (2) v. State of Karnataka[155] and the recent Constitution
Bench decision in Union of India v. Sriharan [156]. It is urged by him that
in many a case, this Court has exercised the said discretion. Learned
senior counsel in that regard has drawn our attention to the pronouncements
in Rameshbhai Chandubhai Rathod (supra), Neel Kumar v. State of
Haryana [157], Ram Deo Prasad v. State of Bihar [158], Chhote Lal v.State of
Madhya Pradesh[159], Anil v. State of Maharashtra (supra), Rajkumar (supra)
 and Selvam v. State [160]. 327. Mr. Hegde, learned friend of the Court, canvassed that the
theory of reformation cannot be ignored entirely in the obtaining factual
matrix in view of the materials brought on record. Learned senior counsel
would contend that imposition of death penalty would be extremely harsh and
totally unwarranted inasmuch as the case at hand does not fall in the
category of rarest of rare case. That apart, it is contended by him that
the entire incident has to be viewed from a different perspective, that is,
the accused persons had the bus in their control, they were drunk, and
situation emerged where the poverty-stricken persons felt empowered as a
consequence of which the incident took place and considering the said
aspect, they may be imposed substantive custodial sentence for specific
years but not death penalty. Additionally, it is submitted by him that in
the absence of pre-meditation to commit a crime of the present nature, it
would not invite the harshest punishment. 328. Mr. Luthra, learned senior counsel, has referred to the reports
of the Superintendent of Jail that the conduct of the accused persons in
the jail has been absolutely non-satisfactory and non-cooperative and the
diabolic nature of the crime has shaken the collective conscience.
According to him, the diabolic nature of the crime has nothing to do with
poverty, for it was not committed for alleviation of poverty but to satiate
their sexual appetite and enormous perversity. He would submit that this
would come in the category of rarest of the rare cases in view of the law laid down in Sevaka Perumal v. State of Tamil Nadu [161], Kamta Tiwari v.
State of Madhya Pradesh [162], State of U.P. v. Satish [163], Holiram
Bordoloi v. State of Assam [164], Ankush Maruti Shinde v. State of
Maharashtra [165], Sundar v. State [166] and Mohfil Khan v. State of
Jharkhand [167]. 329. It is also submitted by Mr. Luthra that mitigating
circumstances are required to be considered in the light of the offence
and not alone on the backdrop of age and family background. For this
purpose, he has relied upon Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar [168] and Purshottam Dashrath Borate v. State of Maharashtra [169]. 330. Mr. Sharma and Mr. Singh, learned counsel for the appellants,
would submit that the conduct of the accused persons shows reformation as
there are engaged in educating themselves and also they have been
participating in affirmative and constructive activities adopted in jail
and so, death penalty should not be affirmed and should be commuted. Mr.
Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the accused Mukesh, submits that he
is not connected with the crime in question. It is put forth that the case
at hand cannot be regarded as rarest of the rare cases and, therefore, the
maximum punishment that can be given should be for a specific period. 331. Presently, we shall proceed to analyse the aforesaid aspect. In Bachan Singh (supra), the Court held thus: 332. In the said case, the Court, after referring to the authority
in Furman v. Georgia[170], noted the suggestion given by the learned
counsel about the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances. The
aggravating circumstances suggested by the counsel read as follows: 333. Thereafter, the Court referred to the suggestions pertaining to
mitigating circumstances: 334. In the said case, the Court has also held thus: 335. In Machhi Singh (supra), a three-Judge Bench has explained the
concept of ‘rarest of the rare cases’ by observing thus: 336. Thereafter, the Court has adverted to the aspects of the
feeling of the community and its desire for self-preservation and opined
that the community may well withdraw the protection by sanctioning the
death penalty. What has been ruled in this regard is worth reproducing: 337. It is apt to state here that in the said case, stress was laid
on certain aspects, namely, the manner of commission of the murder, the
motive for commission of the murder, anti-social or socially abhorrent
nature of the crime, magnitude of the crime and personality of the victim
of murder. 338. After so enumerating, the propositions that emerged from Bachan
Singh (supra) were culled out which are as follows: 339. The three-Judge Bench further opined that to apply the said
guidelines, the following questions are required to be answered: 340. The Court in Haresh Mohandas Rajput v. State of
Maharashtra [171], while dealing with the situation where the death sentence
is warranted, referred to the guidelines laid down in Bachan Singh (supra)
and the principles culled out in Machhi Singh (supra) and opined as
follows: 341. This Court, while dealing with the murder of a young girl of about
18 years in Dhananjoy Chatterjee (supra), took note of the fact that the
accused was a married man of 27 years of age, the principles stated in
Bachan Singh’s case and further took note of the rise of violent crimes
against women in recent years and, thereafter, on consideration of the
aggravating factors and mitigating circumstances, opined that: Appreciating the manner in which the barbaric crime was committed on a
helpless and defenceless school-going girl of 18 years, the Court came to
hold that the case fell in the category of rarest of the rare cases and,
accordingly, affirmed the capital punishment imposed by the High Court. 343. In Laxman Naik v. State of Orissa [177], the Court commenced the
judgment with the following passage: 344. It is worthy to note that in the said case, the High Court had
dismissed the appellant’s appeal and confirmed the death sentence awarded
to him. While discussing as regards the justifiability of the sentence,
the Court referred to the decision in Bachan Singh’s case and opined that
there were absolutely no mitigating circumstances and, on the contrary, the
facts of the case disclosed only aggravating circumstances against the
appellant. Elaborating further, the Court held thus: 345. Kamta Tiwari (supra) is a case where the appellant was
convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 363 , 376 , 302 and 201 of IPC and sentenced to death by the learned trial Judge and the same was
affirmed by the High Court. In appeal, the two-Judge Bench referred to the
propositions culled out in Machhi Singh (supra) and expressed thus: 346. In Bantu v. State of Uttar Pradesh [178], a five year old minor
girl was raped and murdered and the appellant was awarded death sentence by
the trial Court which was affirmed by the High Court. This Court found the
appellant guilty of the crime and, thereafter, referred to the principles
stated in Bachan Singh, Machhi Singh (supra) and Devender Pal Singh v.
State of A.P.[179] and eventually came to hold that the said case fell in
the rarest of the rare category and the capital punishment was warranted.
Being of this view, the Court declined to interfere with the sentence. 347. In Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra [180], the
appellant was awarded sentence of death by the learned trial Judge which
was confirmed by the High Court, for he was found guilty of the offences
punishable under Sections 376(2)(f) , 377 and 302 IPC. In the said case,
the prosecution had proven that the appellant had lured a three year old
minor girl child on the pretext of buying her biscuits and then raped her
and eventually, being apprehensive of being identified, killed her. In
that context, while dismissing the appeal, the Court ruled thus: 348. At this stage, it is fruitful to refer to some authorities
where in cases of rape and murder, the death penalty was not awarded. In State of T.N. v. Suresh and another [181], the Court, while unsettling the
judgment of acquittal recorded by the High Court and finding that the
accused was guilty of rape of a pregnant woman and also murder, awarded the
sentence of life imprisonment by observing: 349. In Akhtar v. State of U.P. (supra), the appellant was found
guilty of murder of a young girl after committing rape on her and was
sentenced to death by the learned Sessions Judge and the said sentence was
confirmed by the High Court. The two-Judge Bench referred to the decisions
in Laxman Naik (supra) and Kamta Tiwari (supra) and addressed itself
whether the case in hand was one of the rarest of the rare case for which
punishment of death could be awarded. The Court distinguished the two
decisions which have been referred to hereinabove and ruled: 350. In State of Maharashtra v. Barat Fakira Dhiwar [182], a three-
year old girl was raped and murdered by the accused. The learned trial
Judge convicted the accused and awarded the death sentence. The High Court
had set aside the order of conviction and acquitted him for the offences.
This Court, on scrutiny of the evidence, found the accused guilty of rape
and murder. Thereafter, the Court proceeded to deal with the sentence and,
in that context, observed: 351. Keeping in view the aforesaid authorities, the Court, in Vasanta Sampat Dupare v. State of Maharashtra [183], proceeded to adumbrate
what is the duty of the Court when the collective conscience is shocked
because of the crime committed and observed: 352. In the said case, the Court dwelt upon the manner in which the
crime was committed and how a minor girl had become a prey of the sexual
depravity and was injured by the despicable act of the accused to silence
the voice so that there would be no evidence. Dealing with the same, the
Court referred to earlier judgments and held: year minor innocent girl child the prey of his lust and deliberately causes
her death. A helpless and defenceless child gets raped and murdered because
of the acquaintance of the appellant with the people of the society. This
is not only betrayal of an individual trust but destruction and devastation
of social trust. It is perversity in its enormity. It irrefragably invites
the extreme abhorrence and indignation of the collective. It is an anathema
to the social balance. In our view, it meets the test of the rarest of the
rare case and we unhesitatingly so hold.” 353. In the said case, a review petition bearing Review Petition
(Criminal) Nos. 637-638 of 2015 was filed which has been recently
dismissed. U.U. Lalit, J., authoring the judgment, has held: 354. The mitigating factors which have been highlighted before us on
the basis of the affidavits filed by the appellants pertain to the strata
to which they belong, the aged parents, marital status and the young
children and the suffering they would go through and the calamities they
would face in case of affirmation of sentence, their conduct while they are
in custody and the reformative path they have chosen and their
transformation and the possibility of reformation. That apart, emphasis
has been laid on their young age and rehabilitation. 355. Now, we shall focus on the nature of the crime and manner in
which it has been commited. The submission of Mr. Luthra, learned senior
counsel, is that the present case amounts to devastation of social trust
and completely destroys the collective balance and invites the indignation
of the society. It is submitted by him that that a crime of this nature
creates a fear psychosis and definitely falls in the category of rarest of
the rare cases. 356. It is necessary to state here that in the instant case, the
brutal, barbaric and diabolic nature of the crime is evincible from the
acts committed by the accused persons, viz., the assault on the informant,
PW-1 with iron rod and tearing off his clothes; assaulting the informant
and the deceased with hands, kicks and iron rod and robbing them of their
personal belongings like debit cards, ring, informant’s shoes, etc.;
attacking the deceased by forcibly disrobing her and committing violent
sexual assault by all the appellants; their brutish behaviour in having
anal sex with the deceased and forcing her to perform oral sex; injuries on
the body of the deceased by way of bite marks (10 in number); and insertion
of rod in her private parts that, inter alia, caused perforation of her
intestine which caused sepsis and, ultimately, led to her death. The
medical history of the prosecutrix (as proved in the record in Ex. PW-50/A
and Ex. PW-50) demonstrates that the entire intestine of the prosecutrix
was perforated and splayed open due to the repeated insertion of the rod
and hands; and the appellants had pulled out the internal organs of the
prosecutrix in the most savage and inhuman manner that caused grave
injuries which ultimately annihilated her life. As has been established,
the prosecutrix sustained various bite marks which were observed on her
face, lips, jaws, near ear, on the right and left breast, left upper arm,
right lower limb, right inner groin, right lower thigh, left thigh lateral,
left lower anterior and genitals. These acts itself demonstrate the mental
perversion and inconceivable brutality as caused by the appellants. As
further proven, they threw the informant and the deceased victim on the
road in a cold winter night. After throwing the informant and the deceased
victim, the convicts tried to run the bus over them so that there would be
no evidence against them. They made all possible efforts in destroying the
evidence by, inter alia, washing the bus and burning the clothes of the
deceased and after performing the gruesome act, they divided the loot among
themselves. As we have narrated the incident that has been corroborated by
the medical evidence, oral testimony and the dying declarations, it is
absolutely obvious that the accused persons had found an object for
enjoyment in her and, as is evident, they were obsessed with the singular
purpose sans any feeling to ravish her as they liked, treat her as they
felt and, if we allow ourselves to say, the gross sadistic and beastly
instinctual pleasures came to the forefront when they, after ravishing her,
thought it to be just a matter of routine to throw her alongwith her
friend out of the bus and crush them. The casual manner with which she was
treated and the devilish manner in which they played with her identity and
dignity is humanly inconceivable. It sounds like a story from a different
world where humanity has been treated with irreverence. The appetite for
sex, the hunger for violence, the position of the empowered and the
attitude of perversity, to say the least, are bound to shock the collective
conscience which knows not what to do. It is manifest that the wanton
lust, the servility to absolutely unchained carnal desire and slavery to
the loathsome beastility of passion ruled the mindset of the appellants to
commit a crime which can summon with immediacy “tsunami” of shock in the
mind of the collective and destroy the civilised marrows of the milieu in
entirety. 357. When we cautiously, consciously and anxiously weigh the
aggravating circumstances and the mitigating factors, we are compelled to
arrive at the singular conclusion that the aggravating circumstances
outweigh the mitigating circumstances now brought on record. Therefore, we
conclude and hold that the High Court has correctly confirmed the death
penalty and we see no reason to differ with the same. 358. Before we part with the case, we are obligated to record our
unreserved appreciation for the assistance rendered by Mr. Raju
Ramachandran and Mr. Sanjay R. Hegde, learned amicus curiae appointed by
the Court. We must also record our uninhibited appreciation for
 Mr. M.L. Sharma and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel for the
appellants, for they, keeping the tradition of the Bar, defended the
appellants at every stage. 359. In view of our preceding analysis, the appeals are bound to
pave the path of dismissal, and accordingly, we so direct. ………………………J.
 (Dipak Misra)

 ………………………J.
 (Ashok Bhushan)
New Delhi
May 05, 2017

|REPORTABLE |

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
 CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION

 CRIMINAL APPEAL NOS. 607-08 OF 2017
 [@SLP(CRL) NOS. 3119-3120 OF 2014]

Mukesh & Anr. ….. Appellants
 Vs.

State of NCT of Delhi and Ors. ….. Respondents

 With

 CRIMINAL APPEAL NOS. 609-10 OF 2017
 [@SLP(CRL) NOS. 5027-5028 OF 2014]

Vinay Sharma & Anr. ….. Appellants
 Vs.

State of NCT of Delhi and Ors. ….. Respondents

 J U D G M E N T

R. BANUMATHI, J. I have gone through the judgment of my esteemed Brother Justice Dipak
Misra. I entirely agree with the reasoning adopted by him and the
conclusions arrived at. However, in view of the significant issues
involved in the matter, in the light of settled norms of appreciation of
evidence in rape cases and the role of Judiciary in addressing crime
against women, I would prefer to give my additional reasoning for
concurrence. 2. Honesty, pride, and self-esteem are crucial to the personal freedom
of a woman. Social progress depends on the progress of everyone. Following
words of the father of our nation must be noted at all times: 3. Crimes against women – an area of concern: Over the past few decades,
legal advancements and policy reforms have done much to protect women from
all sources of violence and also to sensitize the public on the issue of
protection of women and gender justice. Still, the crimes against women are
on the increase. As per the annual report of National Crime Records Bureau
titled, ‘Crime in India 2015’ available at
http://ncrb.nic.in/StatePublications/CII/CII2015/FILES /Compendium -
15.11.16.pdf, a total of 3,27,394 cases of crime against women were
reported in the year 2015, which shows an increase of over 43% in crime
against women since 2011, when 2,28,650 cases were reported. A percentage
change of 110.5% in the cases of crime against women has been witnessed
over the past decade (2005 to 2015), meaning thereby that crime against
women has more than doubled in a decade. An overall crime rate under the
head, ‘crime against women’ was reported as 53.9% in 2015, with Delhi UT at
the top spot. 4. As per the National Crime Records Bureau, a total of 34,651 cases of
rape under Section 376 IPC were registered during 2015 (excluding cases
under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 ). An
increasing trend in the incidence of rape has been observed during the
period 2011-2014. These cases have shown an increase of 9.2% in the year
2011 (24,206 cases) over the year 2010 (22,172 cases), an increase of 3.0%
in the year 2012 (24,923 cases) over 2011, with further increase of 35.2%
in the year 2013 (33,707 cases) over 2012 and 9.0% in 2014 (36,735 cases)
over 2013. A decrease of 5.7% was reported in 2015 (34,651 cases) over 2014
(36,735 cases). 12.7% (4,391 out of 34,651 cases) of total reported rape
cases in 2015 were reported in Madhya Pradesh followed by Maharashtra
(4,144 cases), Rajasthan (3,644 cases), Uttar Pradesh (3,025 cases) and
Odisha (2,251 cases) accounting for 11.9%, 10.5%, 8.7% and 6.5% of total
cases respectively. NCT of Delhi reported highest crime rate of 23.7%
followed by Andaman & Nicobar Islands at 13.5% as compared to national
average of 5.7%. In order to combat increasing crime against women, as
depicted in the statistics of National Crime Records Bureau, the root of
the problem must be studied in depth and the same be remedied through
stringent legislation and other steps. In order to secure social order and
security, it is imperative to address issues concerning women, in
particular crimes against women on priority basis. 5. Stringent legislation and punishments alone may not be sufficient for
fighting increasing crimes against women. In our tradition bound society,
certain attitudinal change and change in the mind-set is needed to respect
women and to ensure gender justice. Right from childhood years’ children
ought to be sensitized to respect women. A child should be taught to
respect women in the society in the same way as he is taught to respect
men. Gender equality should be made a part of the school curriculum. The
school teachers and parents should be trained, not only to conduct regular
personality building and skill enhancing exercise, but also to keep a watch
on the actual behavioural pattern of the children so as to make them gender
sensitized. The educational institutions, Government institutions, the
employers and all concerned must take steps to create awareness with regard
to gender sensitization and to respect women. Sensitization of the public
on gender justice through TV, media and press should be welcomed. On the
practical side, few of the suggestions are worthwhile to be considered.
Banners and placards in the public transport vehicles like autos, taxis and
buses etc. must be ensured. Use of street lights, illuminated bus stops and
extra police patrol during odd hours must be ensured. Police/security
guards must be posted at dark and lonely places like parks, streets etc.
Mobile apps for immediate assistance of women should be introduced and
effectively maintained. Apart from effective implementation of the various
legislation protecting women, change in the mind set of the society at
large and creating awareness in the public on gender justice, would go a
long way to combat violence against women. 6. Factual Matrix: The entire factual matrix of the concerned horrendous
incident has already been fairly set out in the judgment of my esteemed
brother Justice Dipak Misra, the High Court and the trial Court. Suffice
only to briefly recapitulate the facts, for my reference purpose and for
completion. 7. In the wintry night of 16.12.2012, when the entire Delhi was busy in
its day-to-day affair, embracing the joy of year-end, two youths were
bravely struggling to save their dignity and life. It is a case of barbaric
sexual violence against women, in fact against the society at large, where
the accused and juvenile in conflict with law picked up a 23 year old
physiotherapy student and her male friend (PW-1) accompanying her, from a
busy place in Delhi-Munirka Bus stop and subjected them to heinous
offences. The accused gang-raped the prosecutrix in the moving bus and
completely ravished her in front of her helpless friend, Awninder Pratap
(PW-1). The accused, on satisfaction of their lust, threw both the victims,
half naked, outside the bus, in December cold near Mahipalpur flyover. The
prosecutrix and PW-1 were noticed in miserable condition near Mahipalpur
flyover, where they were thrown, by PW-72 Raj Kumar, who was on patrolling
duty that night in the area and PW-73 Ram Chandar, Head Constable, rushed
the prosecutrix and PW-1 to Safdarjung Hospital owing to the need of
immediate medical attention. Law was set in motion by the statement of PW-
1, which was recorded after giving primary medical treatment to him.
Statement/Dying declaration of the prosecutrix was also recorded by PW-49
Doctor, PW-27 Sub-Divisional Magistrate and PW-30 Metropolitan Magistrate.
After intensive care and treatment in ICU in Delhi, the victim was
airlifted to a hospital in Singapore by an air-ambulance where she
succumbed to her injuries on 29.12.2012. 8. The incident shocked the nation and generated public rage. A
Committee headed by Justice J.S. Verma, Former Chief Justice of India was
constituted to suggest amendments to deal with sexual offences more sternly
and effectively in future. The suggestions of the Committee led to the
enactment of Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 which, inter alia, brought
in substantive as well as procedural reforms in the core areas of rape law.
The changes brought in, inter alia, can broadly be titled as under:- (i)
Extension of the definition of the offence of rape in Section
375 IPC; (ii) Adoption of a more pragmatic approach while dealing with the
issue of consent in the offence of rape; and (iii) Introduction of harsher
penalty commensurating with the gravity of offence. These subsequent events
though not relevant for the purpose of this judgment, I have referred to it
for the sake of factual completion. 9. Both the courts below, by recording concurrent findings, have found
all the accused guilty of the offences they were charged with and owing to
the gravity and manner of committing the heinous offences held that the
acts of the accused shake the conscience of the society falling within the
category of rarest of rare cases and awarded death penalty. Briefly put,
the courts below have found that the prosecution has established the guilt
of the accused inter alia on the following: 10. While concurring with the majority, I have recorded my reasoning by
considering the evidence on record in the light of settled legal principles
and also analysed the justifiability of the punishment awarded to the
accused. For proper appreciation of evidence, it is apposite to first refer
to the settled principles and norms of appreciation of evidence of
prosecutrix and other evidence in a rape case. 11. Duty of court in appreciation of evidence while dealing with cases of
rape: Crime against women is an unlawful intrusion of her right to privacy,
which offends her self-esteem and dignity. Expressing concern over the
increasing crime against women, in State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh and
Others (1996) 2 SCC 384, this Court held as under:- 12. The above principle of law, declared in Gurmeet Singh’s case is
reiterated in various cases viz., State of Rajasthan v. N.K. The Accused (2000) 5 SCC 30; State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj and Another (2000) 1 SCC
247; State of H.P. v. Asha Ram (2005) 13 SCC 766. 13. Clause (g) of sub-section (2) of Section 376 IPC (prior to 2013
Amendment Act 13 of 2013) deals with cases of gang rape. In order to
establish an offence under Section 376(2)(g) IPC, read with Explanation I
thereto, the prosecution must adduce evidence to indicate that more than
one accused had acted in concert and in such an event, if rape is committed
by even one, all the accused are guilty, irrespective of the fact that only
one or more of them had actually committed the act. Section
376(2)(g) read with Explanation I thus embodies a principle of joint
liability. But so far as appreciation of evidence is concerned, the
principles concerning the cases falling under sub-section(1) of Section 376 IPC apply. 14. In a case of rape, like other criminal cases, onus is always on the
prosecution to prove affirmatively each ingredients of the offence. The
prosecution must discharge this burden of proof to bring home the guilt of
the accused and this onus never shifts. In Narender Kumar v. State (NCT of
Delhi ) (2012) 7 SCC 171, it was held as under:- 15. At the same time while dealing with cases of rape, the Court must act
with utmost sensitivity and appreciate the evidence of prosecutrix in lieu
of settled legal principles. Courts while trying an accused on the charge
of rape, must deal with the case with utmost sensitivity, examining the
broader probabilities of a case and it should not be swayed by minor
contradictions and discrepancies in appreciation of evidence of the
witnesses which are not of a substantial character. It is now well-settled
that conviction for an offence of rape can be based on the sole testimony
of the prosecutrix corroborated by medical evidence and other
circumstantial evidence such as the report of chemical examination,
scientific examination etc., if the same is found natural and trustworthy. 16. Persisting notion that the testimony of victim has to be corroborated
by other evidence must be removed. To equate a rape victim to an accomplice
is to add insult to womanhood. Ours is a conservative society and not a
permissive society. Ordinarily a woman, more so, a young woman will not
stake her reputation by levelling a false charge, concerning her chastity. In State of Karnataka v. Krishnappa , (2000) 4 SCC 75, it was held as under:- ……. [emphasis supplied]”

It was further held in Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai (supra) that if the
evidence of the victim does not suffer from any basic infirmity and the
“probabilities-factor” does not render it unworthy of credence, there is no
reason to insist on corroboration except corroboration by the medical
evidence. The same view was taken in Krishan Lal v. State of Haryana (1980) 3 SCC 159. 18. It is well-settled that conviction can be based on the sole testimony
of the prosecutrix if it is implicitly reliable and there is a ring of
truth in it. Corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the
testimony of a prosecutrix is not requirement of law but a guidance of
prudence under given circumstances. In Rajinder alias Raju v. State of
Himachal Pradesh , (2009) 16 SCC 69, it was held as under:- 19. In Raju and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 15 SCC
133, it was held as under:- The accused must also be protected against the possibility of false
implication, particularly where a large number of accused are involved. It
must, further, be borne in mind that the broad principle is that an injured
witness was present at the time when the incident happened and that
ordinarily such a witness would not tell a lie as to the actual assailants,
but there is no presumption or any basis for assuming that the statement of
such a witness is always correct or without any embellishment or
exaggeration.” 20. In State of H.P. v. Asha Ram (2005) 13 SCC 766, this Court
highlighted the importance of, and the weight to be attached to, the
testimony of the prosecutrix. In para (5), it was held as under: 21. As held in the case of State of Punjab v. Ramdev Singh (2004) 1 SCC
421, there is no rule of law that the testimony of the prosecutrix cannot
be acted upon without corroboration in material particulars. She stands at
a higher pedestal than an injured witness. However, if the Court of facts
finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face
value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial, which would
lend assurance to her testimony. The above judgment of Ramdev Singh (supra) has been approvingly quoted in State of U.P. v. Munshi (2008) 9
 SCC 390. 22. In a catena of decisions, this Court has held that conviction can be
based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, provided it is natural,
trustworthy and worth being relied upon vide State of H.P. v. Gian Chand ( 2001) 6 SCC 71, State of Rajasthan v. N.K. The Accused (2000) 5 SCC 30; State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj and Another (2000) 1 SCC 247, Wahid Khan v. State
of Madhya Pradesh (2010) 2 SCC 9, Dinesh Jaiswal v. State of Madhya Pradesh
(2010) 3 SCC 232; Om Prakash v. State of Haryana (2011) 14 SCC 309. 23. Observing that once the statement of the prosecutrix inspires
confidence, conviction can be based on the solitary evidence of the
prosecutrix and that corroboration of testimony of a prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but only a rule of prudence, in Narender Kumar’s case
(supra), this Court held as under:- State of Maharashtra (2006) 1 SCC 283.)” 24. Courts should not attach undue importance to discrepancies, where the
contradictions sought to be brought up from the evidence of the prosecutrix
are immaterial and of no consequence. Minor variations in the testimony of
the witnesses are often the hallmark of truth of the testimony. Trivial
discrepancies ought not to obliterate an otherwise acceptable evidence. Due
to efflux of time, there are bound to be minor contradictions/discrepancies
in the statement of the prosecutrix but such minor discrepancies and
inconsistencies are only natural since when truth is sought to be projected
through human, there are bound to be certain inherent contradictions. But
as held in Om Prakash v. State of U.P. (2006) 9 SCC 787, the Court
should examine the broader probabilities of a case. 25. There is no quarrel over the proposition that the evidence of the
prosecutrix is to be believed by examining the broader probabilities of a
case. But where there are serious infirmities and inherent inconsistencies
in evidence; the prosecutrix making deliberate improvement on material
point with a view to rule out consent on her part, no reliance can be
placed upon the testimony of the prosecutrix. In Tameezuddin v. State (NCT
of Delhi ), (2009) 15 SCC 566, it was held as under:- 26. On the anvil of the above principles, let us test the case of
prosecution and version of the prosecutrix as depicted in her dying
declaration. 27. Dying Declaration: Prosecution relies upon three dying declarations
of the victim:- (i) Statement of victim recorded by PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja
(Ex. PW-49/A) when the victim was brought to Safdarjung Hospital and
admitted in the Gynae casualty at about 11:15 p.m. on 16.12.2012 – the
victim gave a brief account of the incident stating that she went to a
movie with her friend Awnindra (PW-1) and that after the movie, they
together boarded the bus from Munirka bus stop in which she was gang-raped
and that she was thrown away from the moving bus thereafter, along with her
friend; (ii) Second dying declaration recorded by PW-27 Usha Chaturvedi,
SDM (Ex. PW-27/A) on 21.12.2012 at about 09:00 p.m. – the victim gave the
details of the entire incident specifying the role of each accused: gang-
rape, unnatural sex committed on her, the injuries inflicted by accused on
her vagina and rectum, by use of iron rod and by insertion of hands in her
private parts; description of the bus, robbery and lastly throwing both the
victim and also her boyfriend out of the moving bus in naked condition near
Mahipalpur flyover; (iii) Third dying declaration recorded by PW-30 Pawan
Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate (Ex.PW-30/D) on 25.12.2012 at 1:00 PM at
ICU, Safdarjung Hospital by putting questions in multiple choice and
recording answers through such questions by gestures or writings – the
victim wrote the names of the accused in the third dying declaration.
Evidence of PW-28 Dr. Rajesh Rastogi and the certificate (Ex.PW-28/A) given
by him establishes that the victim was in a fit mental condition to give
the statement through gestures. Furthermore, PW-75 Asha Devi, mother of
the victim in her cross-examination also deposed that she had a talk with
her daughter on the night of 25.12.2012, which shows that the victim was
conscious, communicative and oriented. Contentions urged, assailing the
fit mental condition of the victim have no merit. 28. With regard to the contention that there were improvements in the
dying declarations, I am of he view, the victim was gang-raped and iron rod
was inserted in her private parts in the incident and the victim must have
been pushed to deep emotional crisis. Rape deeply affects the entire
psychology of the woman and humiliates her, apart from leaving her in a
trauma. The testimony of the rape victim must be appreciated in the
background of the entire case and the trauma which the victim had
undergone. As a matter of record, PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja, at around 11:15
p.m. on the night of 16.12.2012, had attended to the prosecutrix as soon as
she was brought to the hospital and had prepared casualty/OPD Card of the
prosecutrix (Ex. PW-49/A), as well as her MLC (Ex. PW-49/B). At that
time, PW-49 had found her cold and clammy due to vaso-constriction. The
prosecutrix was found shivering, for which she was administered IV line and
warm saline in order to stabilize her pulse and BP. When the victim was in
such a condition, the victim cannot be expected to give minute details of
the occurrence like overt act played by the accused, insertion of iron rod
etc. There is no justification for blowing up such omission out of
proportion in the statement recorded by PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja and doubt
the same. In the occurrence, physical and emotional balance of the victim
must have been greatly disturbed. Startled by the incident, whatever the
victim was able to momentarily recollect, she narrated to PW-49 and placed
in that position non-mention of minute details in Ex.PW-49/A cannot be
termed as a material omission. 29. Dying declaration is a substantial piece of evidence provided it is
not tainted with malice and is not made in an unfit mental state. Each
case of dying declaration has to be considered in its own facts and
circumstances in which it is made. However, there are some well-known
tests to ascertain as to whether the statement was made in reference to
cause of death of its maker and whether the same could be relied upon or
not. The Court also has to satisfy as to whether the deceased was in a fit
mental state to make the statement. The Court must scrutinize the dying
declaration carefully and ensure that the declaration is not the result of
tutoring, prompting or imagination. Once the Court is satisfied that the
declaration is true and voluntary, it can base its conviction without any
further corroboration. It cannot be laid down as an absolute rule of law
that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless
it is corroborated. The rule requiring corroboration is merely a rule of
prudence. That the deceased had the opportunity to observe and identify the
assailants and was in a fit state to make the declaration. [ K. Ramachandra
Reddy and Anr. v. Public Prosecutor (1976) 3 SCC 618] 30. The principles governing dying declarations have been exhaustively laid down in several judicial pronouncements. In Paniben (Smt.) v. State of
Gujarat , (1992) 2 SCC 474, this Court referred to a number of judgments
laying down the principles governing dying declaration. In this regard, I
find it apposite to quote the following from Paniben (supra) as under:- Krishnamurti Laxmipati Naidu (1980) Supp. SCC 455) (viii) Equally, merely because it is a brief statement, it is not be
discarded. On the contrary, the shortness of the statement itself
guarantees truth. Surajdeo Oza v. State of Bihar (1980) Supp. SCC 769) (ix) Normally the court in order to satisfy whether deceased was in a fit
mental condition to make the dying declaration look up to the medical
opinion. But where the eye witness has said that the deceased was in a fit
and conscious state to make this dying declaration, the medical opinion
cannot prevail. ( Nanahau Ram v. State of M.P. (1988) Supp. SCC 152) (x) Where the prosecution version differs from the version as given in the
dying declaration, the said declaration cannot be acted upon. ( State of
U.P. v. Madan Mohan (1989) 3 SCC 390)”

The above well-settled tests relating to dying declarations and the
principles have been elaborately considered in a number of judgments. [ Vide
Khushal Rao v. State of Bombay , AIR 1958 SC 22; State of Uttar Pradesh v.
Ram Sagar Yadav , (1985) 1 SCC 552; State of Orissa v. Bansidhar Singh ,
(1996) 2 SCC 194; Panneerselvam v. State of Tamil Nadu (2008) 17 SCC 190; Atbir v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi (2010) 9 SCC 1 and Umakant and Anr. v. State
of Chhattisgarh (2014) 7 SCC 405]. 31. Multiple Dying Declarations: In cases where there are more than one
dying declarations, the Court should consider whether they are consistent
with each other. If there are inconsistencies, the nature of the
inconsistencies must be examined as to whether they are material or not.
In cases where there are more than one dying declaration, it is the duty of
the Court to consider each one of them and satisfy itself as to the
voluntariness and reliability of the declarations. Mere fact of recording
multiple dying declarations does not take away the importance of each
individual declaration. Court has to examine the contents of dying
declaration in the light of various surrounding facts and circumstances.
This Court in a number of cases, where there were multiple dying
declarations, consistent in material particulars not being contradictory to
each other, has affirmed the conviction. [Vide Vithal v. State of
Maharashtra (2006) 13 SCC 54]. 32. In Amol Singh v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2008) 5 SCC 468, while
discarding the two inconsistent dying declarations, laid down the
principles for consideration of multiple dying declarations as under:- 33. In Ganpat Mahadeo Mane v. State of Maharashtra (1993) Supp.(2) SCC
242, there were three dying declarations. One recorded by the doctor; the
second recorded by the police constable and also attested by the doctor and
the third dying declaration recorded by the Executive Magistrate which was
endorsed by the doctor. Considering the third dying declaration, this
Court held that all the three dying declarations were consistent and
corroborated by medical evidence and other circumstantial evidence and that
they did not suffer from any infirmity. 34. In Lakhan v. State of M.P. (2010) 8 SCC 514, this Court considered a
similar situation where in the first dying declaration given to a police
officer was more elaborate and the subsequent dying declaration recorded by
the Judicial Magistrate lacked certain information given earlier. After
examining the contents of the two dying declarations, this Court held that
there was no inconsistency between two dying declarations and non-mention
of certain features in the dying declarations recorded by the Judicial
Magistrate does not make both the dying declarations inconsistent. 35. In the light of the above principles, I now advert to analyze the
facts of the present case. The victim made three dying declarations:- (i)
statement recorded by PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja immediately after the victim
was admitted to the hospital; (ii) Dying declaration (Ex.PW-27/A) recorded
by PW-27 SDM Usha Chaturvedi on 21.12.2012; and (iii) dying declaration
(Ex.PW-30/D) recorded by PW-30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate on
25.12.2012 at 1:00 P.M by multiple choice questions and recording answers
by gestures and writing. In the first dying declaration (Ex.PW-49/A), the
prosecutrix has stated that more than two men committed rape on her, bit
her on lips, cheeks and breast and also subjected her to unnatural sex. In
the second dying declaration (Ex.PW-27/A) recorded by PW-27, the
victim has narrated the entire incident in great detail, specifying the
role of each accused, rape committed by number of persons, insertion of
iron rod in her private parts, description of the bus, robbery committed
and throwing of both the victims out of the moving bus in naked condition.
In the second dying declaration, she has also stated that the accused were
addressing each other with the names like, “Ram Singh, Thakur, Raju,
Mukesh, Pawan and Vinay”. In the second dying declaration, though there
are improvements in giving details of the incident, names of the accused
etc., there are no material contradictions between the first and second
dying declaration (Ex.PW-49/A and Ex.PW-27/A). 36. On 25.12.2012 at 1:00 P.M, PW-30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate
recorded the statement by putting multiple choice questions to the victim
and by getting answers through gestures and writing. The third dying
declaration (Ex.PW-30/D) is found consistent with the earlier two
declarations. It conclusively establishes that the victim was brutally
gang-raped, beaten by iron rod, subjected to other harsh atrocities and was
finally dumped at an unknown place. While making the third declaration,
the victim also tried to reveal the names of the accused by writing in her
own handwriting viz. Ram Singh, Mukesh, Vinay, Akshay, Vipin, Raju. 37. As per the settled law governing dying declarations, even if there
are minor discrepancies in the dying declarations, in the facts and
circumstances of the case, the Court can disregard the same as
insignificant. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Abrar v. State of Uttar
Pradesh (2011) 2 SCC 750, held that it is practical that minor
discrepancies in recording dying declarations may occur due to pain and
suffering of the victim, in case the declaration is recorded at multiple
intervals and thus, such discrepancies need not be given much emphasis.
“12. It is true that there are some discrepancies in the dying declarations
with regard to the presence or otherwise of a light or a torch. To our
mind, however, these are so insignificant that they call for no discussion.
It is also clear from the evidence that the injured had been in great pain
and if there were minor discrepancies inter se the three dying
declarations, they were to be accepted as something normal. The trial court
was thus clearly wrong in rendering a judgment of acquittal solely on this
specious ground. We, particularly, notice that the dying declaration had
been recorded by the Tahsildar after the doctor had certified the victim as
fit to make a statement. The doctor also appeared in the witness box to
support the statement of the Tahsildar. We are, therefore, of the opinion,
that no fault whatsoever could be found in the dying declarations.” 38. When a dying declaration is recorded voluntarily, pursuant to a
fitness report of a certified doctor, nothing much remains to be questioned
unless, it is proved that the dying declaration was tainted with animosity
and a result of tutoring. Especially, when there are multiple dying
declarations minor variations does not affect the evidentiary value of
other dying declarations whether recorded prior or subsequent thereto. In Ashabai and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 2 SCC 224, it was held as
under: 39. Considering the present case on the anvil of the above principles, I
find that though there was time gap between the declarations, all the three
dying declarations are consistent with each other and there are no material
contradictions. All the three dying declarations depict truthful version
of the incident, particularly the detailed narration of the incident
concerning the rape committed on the victim, insertion of iron rod and the
injuries caused to her vagina and rectum, unnatural sex committed on the
victim and throwing the victim and PW-1 out of the moving bus. All the
three dying declarations being voluntary, consistent and trustworthy,
satisfy the test of reliability. 40. Dying Declaration by gestures and nods: Adverting to the
contention that the third dying declaration made through gestures lacks
credibility, it is seen that the multiple choice questions put to the
prosecutrix by PW-30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate, were simple and
easily answerable through nods and gestures. That apart, before recording
the dying declaration, PW-30 Pawan Kumar, Metropolitan Magistrate had
satisfied himself about fit mental state of the victim to record dying
declaration through nods and gestures. There is nothing proved on record
to show that the mental capacity of the victim was impaired, so as to doubt
the third dying declaration. As the victim was conscious, oriented and
meaningfully communicative, it is natural that the victim was in a position
to write the names of the accused persons and also about the use of long
iron rod. The third dying declaration recorded through nods and gestures
and also by the victim’s own writing, writing the names of the accused
inspires confidence in the Court; the same was rightly relied upon by the
trial Court as well as the High Court. 41. Dying declaration made through signs, gesture or by nods are
admissible as evidence, if proper care was taken at the time of recording
the statement. The only caution the Court ought to take is to ensure that
the person recording the dying declaration was able to correctly notice and
interpret the gestures or nods of the declarant. While recording the third
dying declaration, signs/gestures made by the victim, in response to the
multiple choice questions put to the prosecutrix are admissible in
evidence. 42. A dying declaration need not necessarily be by words or in writing.
It can be by gesture or by nod. In Meesala Ramakrishan v. State of A.P. (1994) 4 SCC 182, this Court held as under:- 43. In the case of rape and sexual assault, the evidence of prosecutrix
is very crucial and if it inspires confidence of the court, there is no
requirement of law to insist upon corroboration of the same for convicting
the accused on the basis of it. Courts are expected to act with
sensitivity and appreciate the evidence of the prosecutrix in the
background of the entire facts of the case and not in isolation. In the
facts and circumstances of the present case as the statements of the
prosecutrix in the form of three dying declarations are consistent with
each other and there are no material contradiction, they can be completely
relied upon without corroboration. In the present case, the prosecutrix
has made a truthful statement and the prosecution has established the case
against the respondents beyond reasonable doubt. The victim also wrote the
names of the accused persons in her own hand-writing in the dying
declaration recorded by PW-30 (Ex.PW-30/D). Considering the facts and
circumstances of the present case and upon appreciation of the evidence and
material on record, I find all the three dying declarations consistent,
true and voluntary, satisfying the test of probabilities factor. That
apart, the dying declarations are well- corroborated by medical and
scientific evidence adduced by the prosecution. Moreover, the same has been
amply corroborated by the testimony of eye witness-PW-1. 44. Corroboration of Dying declaration by Medical Evidence:- The dying
declaration is amply corroborated by medical evidence depicting injuries to
vagina and internal injuries to rectum and recto-vaginal septum as noted by
PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja and PW-50 Dr, Raj Kumar Chejara. On the night of
16.12.2012, the prosecutrix was medically examined by PW-49 who recorded
her injuries and statement in the MLC (Ex. PW-49/B). On local examination,
a sharp cut over right labia and a 6 cm long tag of vagina was found
hanging outside the introitus. Vaginal examination showed bleeding and
about 7 to 8 cm long posterior vaginal wall tear. A rectal tear of about 4
to 5 cm was also noticed communicating with the vaginal tear. Apart from
the said injuries to the private parts of the prosecutrix, guarding and
rigidity was also found in her abdomen and several bruises and marks on
face were noticed. Bruises and abrasions around both the eyes and nostrils
were also found. Lips were found edematous and left side of the mouth was
injured by a small laceration. Bite marks over cheeks and breast, below
areola, were also present. Bruises over the left breast and bite mark in
interior left quadrant were prominent. 45. During surgery, conducted on 16/17.12.2012 PW-50 Dr. Raj Kumar
Chejara (Ex.PW-50/A and Ex. PW-50/B) noted contusion and bruising of
jejunum, large bowel, vaginal tear, and completely torn recto-vaginal
septum. Small and large bowels were affected and were extremely bad for any
definitive repair. It was also noted that rectum was longitudinally torn
and the tear was continuing upward involving sigmoid colon, descending
colon which was splayed open. There were multiple perforations at many
places of ascending colon and calcum. Terminal illeum approximately one and
a half feet loosely hanging in the abdominal cavity avulsed from its
mesentery. Rest of the small bowel was non-existent with only patches of
mucosa at places and borders of the mesentery were contused. While
performing second surgery on 19th December, 2012, surgery team also
recorded findings that rectum was longitudinally torn on anterior aspect in
continuation with peritorial tear and other internal injuries. On 26-12-
2012 the condition of the prosecutrix was examined and it was decided to
shift her abroad for further treatment and she was shifted by an air-
ambulance to Singapore Mount Elizabeth Hospital. The prosecutrix died at
Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore on 29-12-2012 at 04:45 AM. Cause of
death is stated as sepsis with multi organ failure following multiple
injuries. (Ex.PW-34/A) 46. Injuries to vagina, rectum and recto-vaginal septum as noted by PW-
49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja and PW-50 Dr. Raj Kumar Chejara; and the injuries as
depicted in the post-mortem certificate, including the other external
injuries which are evidently marks of violence during the incident, exhibit
the cruel nature of gang rape committed on the victim. The profused
bleeding from vagina and tag of vagina hanging outside; completely recto-
vaginal septum clearly demonstrate the violent act of gang rape committed
on the victim. The medical reports including the operation theatre notes
(Ex. PW-50/A and 50/B) and the injuries thereon indicates the pain and
suffering which the victim had undergone due to multiple organ failure and
other injuries caused by insertion of iron rod. 47. If considered on the anvil of settled legal principles, injuries on
the person of a rape victim is not even a sine qua non for proving the
charge of rape, as held in Joseph v. State of Kerala (2000) 5 SCC 197. The
same principle was reiterated in State of Maharashtra v. Suresh (2000) 1
SCC 471. As rightly held in State of Rajasthan v. N.K. , The Accused (2000)
5 SCC 30, absence of injury on the person of the victim is not necessarily
an evidence of falsity of the allegations of rape or evidence of consent on
the part of the prosecutrix. In the present case, the extensive injuries
found on the vagina/private parts of the body of the victim and injuries
caused to the internal organs and all over the body, clearly show that the
victim was ravished. 48. Corroboration of dying declaration by scientific evidence:- The DNA
profile generated from blood-stained pants, t-shirts and jackets recovered
at the behest of A-2 Mukesh matched with the DNA profile of the victim.
Likewise, the DNA profile generated from the blood-stained jeans and banian
recovered at the behest of A-3 Akshay matched with the DNA profile of the
victim. DNA profile generated from the blood-stained underwear, chappal and
jacket recovered at the behest of A-4 Vinay matched with the DNA profile of
the victim. DNA profiles generated from the clothes of the accused
recovered at their behest consistent with that of the victim is an
unimpeachable evidence incriminating the accused in the occurrence. As
submitted by the prosecution, there is no plausible explanation from the
accused as to the matching of DNA profile of the victim with that of the
DNA profile generated from the clothes of the accused. The courts below
rightly took note of the DNA analysis report in finding the accused guilty. 49. Bite marks on the chest of the victim and Odontology Report: It is
also to be noted that the photographs of bite marks found on the body of
the victim, lifted by PW-66 Shri Asghar Hussain were examined by PW-71 Dr.
Ashith B. Acharya. The analysis shows that at least three bite marks were
caused by accused Ram Singh whereas one bite mark has been identified to
have been most likely caused by accused Akshay. This aspect of Odontology
Report has been elaborately discussed by the High Court in paragraphs (91)
to (94) of its judgment. Odontology Report which links accused Ram Singh
and accused Akshay, with the case, strengthens the prosecution case as to
their involvement. 50. Going by the version of the prosecutrix, as per the dying declaration
and the evidence adduced, in particular medical evidence and scientific
evidence, I find the evidence of the prosecutrix being amply corroborated.
As discussed earlier, in rape cases, Court should examine the broader
probabilities of a case and not get swayed by discrepancies. The
conviction can be based even on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix.
However, in this case, dying declarations recorded from the prosecutrix are
corroborated in material particulars by:- (i) medical evidence; (ii)
evidence of injured witness PW-1; (iii) matching of DNA profiles, generated
from blood-stained clothes of the accused, iron rod recovered at the behest
of deceased accused Ram Singh and various articles recovered from the bus
with the DNA profile of the victim; (iv) recovery of belongings of the
victim at the behest of the accused, viz. debit card recovered from A-1 Ram
Singh and Nokia mobile from A-4 Vinay. The dying declarations well
corroborated by medical and scientific evidence strengthen the case of the
prosecution by conclusively connecting the accused with the crime. 51. Use of Iron Rod and death of the victim: Case of the prosecution is
that the accused brutally inserted iron rod in the vagina of the
prosecutrix and pulled out internal organs of the prosecutrix. The
defence refuted the use of iron rod by the accused on the ground that the
complainant as well as the victim did not mention the use of iron rods in
their first statements. Contention of the appellants is that when the
victim had given details of the entire incident to PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja,
if iron rod had been used, she would not have omitted to mention the use of
iron rods in the incident. We do not find force in such a contention, as
ample reliable evidence are proved on record which lead to the irresistible
conclusion that iron rod was used and it was not a mere piece of
concoction. 52. Use of iron rods and insertion of the same in the private parts of
the victim is established by the second dying declaration recorded by SDM
PW-27 Usha Chaturvedi, where the victim has given a detailed account of the
incident, role of the accused, gang rape committed on her and other
offences including the use of iron rods. The brutality with which the
accused persons inserted iron rod in the rectum and vagina of the victim
and took out her internal organs from the vaginal and anal opening is
reflected in Ex.PW- 49/A. Further, medical opinion of PW-49 (Ex. PW-49/G)
stating that the recto-vaginal injury could be caused by the rods recovered
from the bus, strengthens the statement of the victim and the prosecution
version. When the second and third dying declarations of the prosecutrix
are well corroborated by the medical evidence, non-mention of use of iron
rods in prosecutrix’s statement to PW-49 Dr. Rashmi Ahuja (Ex. PW-49/A),
does not materially affect the credibility of the dying declaration.
Insertion of iron rod in the private parts of the prosecutrix is amply
established by the nature of multiple injuries caused to jejunum and rectum
which was longitudinally torn, tag of vagina hanging out; and completely
torn recto-vaginal septum. 53. At the behest of accused Ram Singh two iron rods (Ex.P-49/1 and Ex.P-
49/2) were recovered from the shelf of the driver's cabin vide seizure Memo
Ex.PW-74/G. The blood-stained rods deposited in the Malkhana were
thereafter sent for chemical analysis. The DNA report prepared by PW-45
Dr. B.K Mohapatra, indicates that the DNA profile developed from the blood-
stained iron rods is consistent with the DNA profile of the victim.
Presence of blood on the iron rods and the DNA profile of which is
consistent with the DNA profile of the victim establishes the prosecution
case as to the alleged use of iron rods in the incident. 54. Evidence of PW-1: In his first statement made on 16.12.2012, eye
witness PW-1 stated that he accompanied the prosecutrix to Select City
Mall, Saket, New Delhi in an auto from Dwarka, New Delhi where they watched
a movie till about 08:30 p.m. After leaving the Mall, PW-1 and the victim
took an auto to Munirka from where they boarded the fateful bus. After the
prosecutrix and PW-1 boarded the bus, the accused surrounded PW-1 and
pinned him down in front side of the bus. While the accused Vinay and
Pawan held PW-1, the other three accused committed rape on the victim on
the rear side of the bus. Thereafter, other accused held PW-1, while
Vinay and Pawan committed rape on the victim. Later accused Mukesh who was
earlier driving the bus, committed rape on the victim. After the incident,
PW-1 and the prosecutrix were thrown out of the moving bus, near Mahipalpur
flyover. In the incident, PW-1 himself sustained injuries which lends
assurance to his credibility. 55. That PW-1 accompanied the victim to Select City Mall and that he was
with the victim till the end, is proved by ample evidence. As per the case
of the prosecution, on the fateful day, the complainant and the prosecutrix
had gone to Saket Mall to see a movie. CCTV footage produced by PW-25
Rajender Singh Bisht in two CDs (Ex.PW-25/C-1 and PW-25/C-2) and seven
photographs (Ex.PW-25/B-1 to Ex.PW-25/B-7) corroborate the version of PW-1
that the complainant and the victim were present at Saket Mall till 8:57
p.m. The certificate under Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872
with respect to the said footage is proved by PW-26 Shri Sandeep Singh
(Ex.PW-26/A) who is the CCTV operator at Select City Mall. 56. The computer generated electronic record in evidence, admissible at a
trial is proved in the manner specified in Section 65-B of the Evidence
Act. Sub-section (1) of Section 65 of the Evidence Act makes electronic
records admissible as a document, paper print out of electronic records
stored in optical or magnetic media produced by a computer, subject to the
fulfillment of the conditions specified in sub-section (2) of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act. When those conditions are satisfied, the electronic
record becomes admissible in any proceeding without further proof or
production of the original, as evidence of any of the contents of the
original or any fact stated therein of which direct evidence is admissible.
 Secondary evidence of contents of document can also be led under Section
65 of the Evidence Act. 57. Having carefully gone through the deposition of PW-1, I find that his
evidence, even after lengthy cross examination, remains unshaken. The
evidence of a witness is not to be disbelieved simply because of minor
discrepancies. It is to be examined whether he was present or not at the
crime scene and whether he is telling the truth or not. PW-1 has clearly
explained as to how he happened to be with the victim and considering the
cogent evidence adduced by the prosecution, presence of PW-1 cannot be
doubted in any manner. PW-1 himself was injured in the incident and he was
admitted in the Casualty Ward, where PW-51 Dr. Sachin Bajaj examined him.
As per Ex.PW-51/A, lacerated wound over the vertex of scalp, lacertated
wound over left upper lip and abrasion over right knee were found on the
person of PW-1. Testimony of PW-1 being testimony of an injured witness
lends credibility to his evidence and prosecution’s case. As rightly
pointed out by the Courts below, no convincing grounds exist to discard the
evidence of PW-1, an injured witness. 58. The question of the weight to be attached to the evidence of an
injured witness has been extensively discussed by this Court in Mano Dutt
and Anr. v State of Uttar Pradesh (2012) 4 SCC 79. After exhaustively
referring to various judgments on this point, this Court held as under :- State of Punjab(2009) 9 SCC 719 where this Court reiterated the special
evidentiary status accorded to the testimony of an injured accused and
relying on its earlier judgments held as under: (SCC pp. 726-27, paras 28- 29)
‘28. Darshan Singh (PW 4) was an injured witness. He had been examined by
the doctor. His testimony could not be brushed aside lightly. He had given
full details of the incident as he was present at the time when the
assailants reached the tubewell. In Shivalingappa Kallayanappa v. State of
Karnataka1994 Supp (3) SCC 235 this Court has held that the deposition of
the injured witness should be relied upon unless there are strong grounds
for rejection of his evidence on the basis of major contradictions and
discrepancies, for the reason that his presence on the scene stands
established in case it is proved that he suffered the injury during the
said incident. 29. In State of U.P. v. Kishan Chand (2004) 7 SCC 629 a similar view has
been reiterated observing that the testimony of a stamped witness has its
own relevance and efficacy. The fact that the witness sustained injuries at
the time and place of occurrence, lends support to his testimony that he
was present during the occurrence. In case the injured witness is subjected
to lengthy cross-examination and nothing can be elicited to discard his
testimony, it should be relied upon (vide Krishan v. State of Haryana (2006)
12 SCC 459). Thus, we are of the considered opinion that evidence of
Darshan Singh (PW 4) has rightly been relied upon by the courts below.’ 30. The law on the point can be summarised to the effect that the testimony
of the injured witness is accorded a special status in law. This is as a
consequence of the fact that the injury to the witness is an inbuilt
guarantee of his presence at the scene of the crime and because the witness
will not want to let his actual assailant go unpunished merely to falsely
implicate a third party for the commission of the offence. Thus, the
deposition of the injured witness should be relied upon unless there are
strong grounds for rejection of his evidence on the basis of major
contradictions and discrepancies therein.” 59. After the accused were arrested, they made disclosure statements.
Pursuant to the said disclosure statements, recoveries of various articles
were effected which included clothes of the accused and articles belonging
to PW-1 and the prosecutrix. The Samsung Galaxy Duos mobile phone
recovered from A-2 was identified by the complainant in the court as
belonging to him and testimony of the complainant was further fortified by
the testimony of PW-56 Sandeep Dabral, Manager, Spice Mobile Shop, who
stated that the said Samsung Mobile bearing the respective IMEI number was
sold in the name of the complainant. Also, the metro card and silver ring
recovered at the behest of A-3 Akshay were identified by PW-1 in court as
belonging to him. The silver ring was also identified by the complainant in
the TIP proceedings conducted on 28.12.2012. Likewise, the Hush-Puppies
shoes recovered at the behest of A-4 Vinay and wrist watch of Sonata make
recovered at the behest of A-5 Pawan were identified by PW-1 in TIP
proceedings as belonging to him. Recoveries of articles of PW-1 and other
scientific evidence, irrebutably establish the presence of PW-1 at the
crime scene and strengthens the credibility of PW-1’s testimony. 60. Apart from the recoveries made at the behest of the accused, presence
of PW-1 is also confirmed by DNA profile generated from the blood-stained
mulberry leaves and grass collected from Mahipalpur (seized vide Memo Ex.
PW-74/C) where both the victims were thrown after the incident. As per the
Chemical Analysis Report, DNA profile generated from the blood-stained
murberry leaves collected from the Mahipalpur flyover were found to be of
male origin and consistent with the DNA profile of PW-1. This proves that
PW-1 was present with the victim at the time of the incident and both of
them were together thrown out of the bus at Mahipalpur. 61. Further, as discussed infra, pursuant to the disclosure statement of
the accused, clothes of accused, some of which were blood-stained and other
incriminating articles were recovered. PW-45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra matched the
DNA profiles of the blood detected on the clothes of the accused with that
of the complainant and the victim. One set of DNA profile generated from
jeans-pant of the accused Akshay (A-3) matched the DNA profile of PW-1.
Likewise, one set of DNA profile generated from the sports jacket of
accused Vinay (A-4) was found consistent with the DNA profile of PW-1.
Also, one set of DNA profile generated from black coloured sweater of
Accused Pawan Gupta (A-5) was found consistent with the DNA profile of PW- 1. Result of DNA analysis further corroborates the version of PW-1 and
strengthens the prosecution case. DNA Analysis Report, as provided by PW-
45 is a vital piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime. 62. Matching of DNA profile generated from the bunch of hair recovered
from the floor of the bus near the second row seat on the left side, with
DNA profile of the complainant is yet another piece of evidence
corroborating the version of PW-1[vide Ex.PW-45/B]. Further, DNA profile
developed from burnt cloth pieces, recovered from near the rear side entry
of the bus was found consistent with DNA profile of PW-1; and this again
fortifies the presence of PW-1 with the victim in the bus. 63. Contention of the appellants is that there are vital contradictions
in the statements of PW-1. It is contended that initially PW-1 did not
give the names of the accused in the FIR and that he kept on improving his
version, in particular, in the second supplementary statement recorded on
17.12.2012 in which he gave the details of the bus involved. To contend
that testimony of PW-1 is not trustworthy, reliance is placed on Kathi
Bharat Vajsur And Anr. v State of Gujarat (2012) 5 SCC 724. In Kathi Bharat
Vajsur’s case, this Court has observed that when there are inconsistencies
or contradictions in oral evidence and the same is found to be in
contradiction with other evidence then it cannot be held that the
prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. 64. While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach must be to
consider the entire evidence and analyze whether the evidence as a whole
gives a complete chain of facts depicting truth. Once that impression is
formed, it is necessary for the court to scrutinize evidence particularly
keeping in view the prosecution case. Any minor discrepancies or
improvements not touching the core of the prosecution case and not going to
the root of the matter, does not affect the trustworthiness of the witness.
 Insofar as the contention that PW-1 kept on improving his version in his
statement recorded at various point of time, it is noted that there are
indeed some improvements in his version but, the core of his version as to
the occurrence remains consistent. More so, when PW-1 and the victim faced
such a traumatic experience, immediately after the incident, they cannot be
expected to give minute details of the incident. It would have taken some
time for them to come out of the shock and recollect the incident and give
a detailed version of the incident. It is to be noted that in the present
case, the statements of PW-1 recorded on various dates are not
contradictory to each other. The subsequent statements though are more
detailed as compared to the former ones, in the circumstances of the case,
it cannot be said to be unnatural affecting the trustworthiness of PW-1’s
testimony. There is hardly any justification for doubting the evidence of
PW-1, especially when it is corroborated by recovery of PW-1’s articles
from the accused and scientific evidence. 65. The trial Court as well as the High Court found PW-1’s evidence
credible and trustworthy and I find no reason to take a different view. The
view of the High Court and the trial court is fortified by the decisions of
this court in Pudhu Raja and Anr. v. State Rep. by Inspector of Police,
(2012) 11 SCC 196, Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana ( 2000) 4 SCC 484 and
Akhtar and Ors. v. State of Uttaranchal (2009) 13 SCC 722. Further, the
evidence of PW-1 is amply strengthened by scientific evidence and recovery
of the incriminating articles from the accused. The alleged omissions and
improvements in the evidence of PW-1 pointed out by the defence do not
materially affect the evidence of PW-1. 66. Recovery of the bus and its Involvement in the incident: Description
of the entire incident by PW-1 and the victim led the investigating team to
the Hotel named “Hotel Delhi Airport”, where PW-1 and the victim were
dumped after the incident. PW-67 P.K. Jha, owner of Hotel Delhi Airport
handed over the pen drive containing CCTV footage (Ex.P-67/1) and CD
(Ex.P-67/2) to the Investigating Officer which were seized. From the CCTV
footage, the offending bus bearing registration No.DL-1PC-0149 was
identified by PW-1. The bus was seized from Ravi Dass Camp and Ram Singh
(A-1) was also arrested. 67. PW-81 Dinesh Yadav is the owner of the bus bearing Registration No.DL-
1PC-0149 (Ex.P-1). PW-81 runs buses under the name and style “Yadav
Travels”. On interrogation, PW-81 Dinesh Yadav stated that A-1 Ram Singh
was the driver of the bus No.DL-1PC-0149 in December, 2012 and A-3 Akshay
Kumar Singh was his helper in the bus. PW-81 also informed the police that
the bus was attached to Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi
to ferry students to the school in the morning and that it was also engaged
by a Company named M/s. Net Ambit in Noida, to take its employees from
Delhi to Noida. PW-81 also informed the police that after daily routine
trip, A-1 Ram Singh used to park the bus at Ravi Dass Camp, R.K. Puram,
near his residence. PW-81 further informed that on 17.12.2012, the bus as
usual went from Delhi to Noida to take the Staff of M/s Net Ambit to their
office. The recovery of the bus (Ex.P-1) and evidence of PW-81 led to a
breakthrough in the investigation that A-1 Ram Singh was the driver of the
bus and A-3 Akshay was the cleaner of the bus. 68. Furthermore, in order to prove that A1 Ram Singh (Dead) was the
driver of the bus No.DL-1PC-0149 (Ex.P-1), PW-16 Rajeev Jakhmola, Manager
(Administration) of Birla Vidya Niketan School, Pushp Vihar, New Delhi was
examined. In his evidence, PW-16 stated that PW-81, Dinesh Yadav had
provided the school with seven buses on contract basis including the bus
No.DL-1PC-0149 (Ex.P-1) and that A-1 Ram Singh was its driver. In his
interrogation by the police, PW-16 had also handed over Ram Singh’s driving
licence alongwith copy of agreement of the school with the owner of the bus
and other documents. By adducing the evidence of PW-81 Dinesh Yadav and PW-
16 Rajeev Jakhmola, the prosecution has established that the bus in
question was routinely driven by A-1 Ram Singh (Dead) and A-3 Akshay Kumar
was the helper in the bus. 69. On 17.12.2012, a team of experts from CFSL comprising PW-45 Dr.
B.K. Mohapatra, PW-46 A.D. Shah, PW-79 P.K. Gottam and others, went to the
Thyagraj Stadium and inspected the bus Ex.P1. On inspection, certain
articles were seized from the said bus vide seizure memo Ex.PW-74/P. It
is brought on record that the samples were diligently collected and taken
to CFSL, CBI by SI Subhash (PW-74) vide RC No. 178/21/12 for examination.
The DNA profile of material objects lifted from the bus bearing No.DL-1PC-
0149 were found consistent with that of the victim and the complainant.
Matching of the DNA profile developed from the articles seized from the bus
DL-1PC-0149 like hair recovered from the third row of the bus on the left
side with the DNA profile of PW-1, strengthens the prosecution case as to
the involvement of the offending bus bearing registration No.DL-1PC-0149.
DNA profile developed from the blood-stained curtains of the bus and blood-
stained seat covers of bus and the bunch of hair recovered from the floor
of the bus below sixth row matched with the DNA profile of the victim. The
evidence of DNA analysis is an unimpeachable evidence as to the involvement
of the offending bus in the commission of offence and also strong
unimpeachable evidence connecting the accused with the crime. 70. The accused neither rebutted this evidence nor offered any convincing
explanation except making feeble attempt by stating that everything was
concocted. PW-46, A.D. Shah, Senior Scientific Officer (Finger Prints),
CFSL, CBI examined the chance prints lifted from the bus. Chance print
marked as ‘Q.1’ lifted from the bus (Ex.P-1) was found identical with the
left palm print of accused Vinay Sharma. Further chance print marked as
‘Q.4’ was found identical with right thumb impression of accused Vinay
Sharma. A finger print expert report (Ex.PW-46/D) states that the chance
print lifted from the bus being identical with the finger print of accused
Vinay Sharma, establishes the presence of accused Vinay Sharma in the bus,
thereby strengthening prosecution case. 71. Arrest and Recovery under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act: 72. As noted in the above tabular form, various articles of the
complainant and the victim were recovered from the accused viz., Samsung
Galaxy Phone (recovered at the behest of A-2 Mukesh); silver ring
(recovered at the behest of A-3 Akshay); Hush Puppies shoes (recovered at
the behest of A-4 Vinay) and Sonata Wrist Watch (recovered at the behest of
A-5 Pawan). Recovery of belongings of PW-1 and that of the victim, at the
instance of the accused is a relevant fact duly proved by the prosecution.
Notably the articles recovered from the accused thereto have been duly
identified by the complainant in test identification proceedings. Recovery
of articles of complainant (PW-1) and that of the victim at the behest of
accused is a strong incriminating circumstance implicating the accused. As
rightly pointed out by the Courts below, the accused have not offered any
cogent or plausible explanation as to how they came in possession of those
articles. 73. Similarly, the Indian bank debit card (Ex.PW-74/3) recovered at the
behest of A-1 Ram Singh and black coloured Nokia mobile phone (Ex.PW-
68/5) recovered at the behest of A-4 Vinay have been proved to be used by
the prosecutrix. PW-75 Asha Devi mother of the victim in her testimony
stated that the Debit card belonged to her PW-75 Asha Devi and that the
same was in the possession of her daughter. Nokia mobile phone (Ex.PW-
68/5) is stated to be the mobile used by the victim. Notably, the articles
of the prosecutrix recovered from the accused were proved by the evidence
of PW-75 Asha Devi (mother of the victim) and the same was not controverted
by the defence. 74. Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act (for short ‘the Evidence Act ’)
speaks of a confession made to a police officer, which shall not be proved
as against a person accused of an offence. Section 26 of the Evidence Act
also speaks that no confession made by the person whilst he is in the
custody of a police officer, unless it be made in the immediate presence of
a Magistrate, shall be proved as against such person. Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act put a complete bar on the admissibility of a
confessional statement made to a police officer or a confession made in
absentia of a Magistrate, while in custody. Section 27 of the Evidence Act
is by way of a proviso to Sections 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act and a
statement even by way of confession made in police custody which distinctly
relates to the fact discovered is admissible in evidence against the
accused. Section 27 of the Evidence Act reads as under:- 75. Section 27 has prescribed two limitations for determining how much of
the information received from the accused can be proved against him: State of Rajasthan (2004) 10 SCC 657:- 76. Appending a note of caution to prevent the misuse of the provision of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, this Court in Geejaganda Somaiah v. State
of Karnataka (2007) 9 SCC 315, observed that the courts need to be vigilant
about application of Section 27 of the Evidence Act. Relevant extract from
the judgment is as under:- 77. Even though, the arrest and recovery under Section 27 of the Evidence
Act is often sought to be misused, the courts cannot be expected to
completely ignore how crucial are the recoveries made under Section 27 in
an investigation. The legislature while incorporating Section 27 , as an
exception to Sections 24 , 25 and 26 of the Evidence Act, was convinced of
the quintessential purpose Section 27 would serve in an investigation
process. The recovery made under Section 27 of the Evidence Act not only
acts as the foundation stone for proceeding with an investigation, but also
completes the chain of circumstances. Once the recovery is proved by the
prosecution, burden of proof on the defence to rebut the same is very
strict, which cannot be discharged merely by pointing at procedural
irregularities in making the recoveries, especially when the recovery is
corroborated by direct as well as circumstantial evidence, especially when
the investigating officer assures that failure in examining independent
witness while making the recoveries was not a deliberate or mala fide,
rather it was on account of exceptional circumstances attending the
investigation process. 78. While the prosecution has been able to prove the recoveries made at
the behest of the accused, the defence counsel repeatedly argued in favour
of discarding the recoveries made, on the ground that no independent
witnesses were examined while effecting such recoveries and preparing
seizure memos. 79. The above contention of the defence counsel urges one to look into
the specifics of Section 27 of the Evidence Act. As a matter of fact, need
of examining independent witnesses, while making recoveries pursuant to the
disclosure statement of the accused is a rule of caution evolved by the
Judiciary, which aims at protecting the right of the accused by ensuring
transparency and credibility in the investigation of a criminal case. In
the present case, PW-80 SI Pratibha Sharma has deposed in her cross-
examination that no independent person had agreed to become a witness and
in the light of such a statement, there is no reason for the courts to
doubt the version of the police and the recoveries made. 80. When recovery is made pursuant to the statement of accused, seizure
memo prepared by the Investigating Officer need not mandatorily be attested
by independent witnesses. In State Govt. of NCT of Delhi v. Sunil and
Another (2001) 1 SCC 652, it was held that non-attestation of seizure memo
by independent witnesses cannot be a ground to disbelieve recovery of
articles’ list consequent upon the statement of the accused. It was
further held that there was no requirement, either under Section 27 of the
Evidence Act or under Section 161 Cr.P.C. to obtain signature of
independent witnesses. If the version of the police is not shown to be
unreliable, there is no reason to doubt the version of the police regarding
arrest and contents of the seizure memos. 81. In the landmark case of Pulukuri Kottaya v. King-Emperor AIR
1947 PC 67, the Privy Council has laid down the relevance of information
received from the accused for the purpose of Section 27 of the Evidence
Act. Relevant extracts from the judgment are as under: 82. In the light of above discussion, it is held that recoveries made
pursuant to disclosure statement of the accused are duly proved by the
prosecution and there is no substantial reason to discard the same.
Recovery of articles of PW-1 and also that of victim at the instance of the
accused is a strong incriminating evidence against accused, especially when
no plausible explanation is forthcoming from the accused. Further, as
discussed infra, the scientific examination of the articles recovered
completely place them in line with the chain of events described by the
prosecution. 83. DNA Analysis: In order to establish a clear link between the accused
persons and the incident at hand, the prosecution has also adduced
scientific evidence in the form of DNA analysis. For the purpose of DNA
profiling, various samples were taken from the person of the prosecutrix;
the complainant; the accused, their clothes/articles; the dumping spot; the
iron rods; the ashes of burnt clothes; as well as from the offending bus.
PW-45 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra analysed the said DNA profiles and submitted his
report thereof. In his report, he concluded that the samples were authentic
and capable of establishing the identities of the persons concerned beyond
reasonable doubt. Prosecution relies upon the biological examination of
various articles including the samples collected from the accused and the
DNA profiles generated from the blood-stained clothes of the accused. The
DNA profile generated from the samples collected, when compared with the
DNA profile generated from the blood samples of the victim and PW-1
Awninder Pratab Pandey, were found consistent. 84. For easy reference and for completion of narration of events, I
choose to refer to the articles recovered from the accused pursuant to
their disclosure statements and other articles like blood-stained clothes;
samples of personal fluids like blood, saliva with control swab; other
samples like nail clippings, penil swab, stray hair etc. Details of the
DNA analysis is contained in the reports of biological examination and DNA
profiling (Ex.PW-45/A to Ex.PW-45/C), furnished by PW-45 Dr. B.K.
Mohapatra. |Recovery pursuant |Samples |Items |Items matching|Findings (Ex.Pw45/B)| | |
|to disclosure |collected |matching|DNA profile of| | | |
|statement |from the |DNA |Victim. | | | |
| |person of |profile | | | | |
| |the |of PW1 | | | | |
| |accused | | | | | |
|(1) |(2) |(3) |(4) |(5) |
|(1) Bus (Ex.P-1) |(1)Penile |-NA- |(1) DNA |(1) DNA profile | | |
|DL-1PC-0149 |swab | |profile |generated from Blood| | |
|(2) Keys of Bus, | | |generated from|detected in gauze of| | |
|(Ex.P-74/2) |(2) Saliva| |Partially torn|accused matched the | | |
|(3)Driving License,| | |green and |DNA profile | | |
|Fitness |(3)Nail | |black colored |generated from | | |
|Certificate, Permit|clippings | |striped half |rectal swab of the | | |
|Pollution | | |sleeve t-shirt|victim. | | |
|Certificate and |(4)Control| |found to be | | | |
|other documents of |swab | |female in |(2) Blood as well as| | |
|bus bearing | | |origin and |human spermatozoa | | |
|registration no. |(5)Blood | |consistent |was detected in the | | |
|DL-1PC-0149 |in gauze | |with the DNA |underwear of the | | |
|(Ex.P-74/4) | | |profile of |accused and the DNA | | |
|(4) Two |(6) | |victim (1q) |profile generated | | |
|blood-stained rods |Underwear | |[8.7.3 @ Ex. |there-from was found| | |
|(Ex.P49/1 and | | |PW 45/B]. |to be female in | | |
|Ex.49/2) | | | |origin, consistent | | |
|(5) Indian Bank | | |(2) DNA |with that of the | | |
|Debit | | |profile |victim. | | |
|Card(Ex.P74/3) | | |generated from| | | |
|(6) Blood-stained | | |brown colored |(3) The DNA profile | | |
|green and black | | |plastic |developed from blood| | |
|coloured T-Shirt | | |chappal found |stains from both the| | |
|(Ex.74/6) and | | |to be female |iron rods, recovered| | |
|blood-stained brown| | |in origin and |at the instance of | | |
|coloured chappal | | |consistent |accused Ram Singh | | |
|(Ex.74/7). | | |with the DNA |from bus, is of | | |
|(7) Some ashes and | | |profile of |female origin and | | |
|partly burnt | | |victim (1q) |consistent with the | | |
|clothes (seizure | | |[8.7.3 @ Ex. |DNA profile of | | |
|memo Ex. PW-74/M.) | | |PW 45/B] |prosecutrix. | | |
| | | | | | | |
| | | | |(4) The DNA profile | | |
| | | | |developed from burnt| | |
| | | | |clothes pieces was | | |
| | | | |found to be of male | | |
| | | | |origin and | | |
| | | | |consistent with the | | |
| | | | |DNA profile of the | | |
| | | | |complainant. | | |

|ACCUSED MUKESH (A-2) |
|ARTICLES | |Findings of DNA |DNA profile generated |
|RECOVERED FROM | |generated from |from other articles, |
|ACCUSED | |clothes |swab etc. |
|Recovery |Samples |Items |Items |FINDINGS (Ex.PW45/B) |
|pursuant to |collected |matching |matching | |
|disclosure |from the |DNA |DNA profile| |
|statement |person of the|profile |of Victim | |
| |accused |of PW1 | | |
|(1) |(2) |(3) |(4) |(5) |
|Disclosure | (1) Blood in|-NA- |The DNA |(1) Blood was detected |
|statement |gauze | |profile |in gauze and nail |
|recorded on |(2)Nail | |generated |clippings but it did |
|18.12.2012 by |clippings | |from |not yield female |
|PW-60 HC Mahabir|(3) Urethral | |blood-stain|fraction DNA for |
|(Ex.PW-60/I) |swab | |ed pants, |analysis. |
|Following items |(4)Glans swab| |t-shirts |(2)Human Spermatazoa |
|recovered: |(5)Cut of | |and jackets|was detected in |
|1. one |pubic hair | |recovered |urethral swab, glans |
|blood-stained |(6) Saliva | |at the |swab and underwear but |
|green T-shirt |(7) Stray | |behest of |the same did not yield |
|2. one |hair | |accused |female fraction DNA for|
|blood-stained |(8) | |matched the|analysis. |
|grey colour |Underwear. | |DNA profile| |
|pants. | | |of the | |
|3. blood-stained| | |victim. | |
|bluish grey | | | | |
|colour jacket. | | | | |
|ACCUSED AKSHAY (A-3) | | |
|(1) |(2) |(3) |(4) |(5) | | |
|(1) One black |(1) Blood in |One set |The DNA |DNA profile generated | | |
|bag containing |gauze |of the |profile |from breast swab of | | |
|blood-stained |(2) Saliva |DNA |generated |the victim was found | | |
|blue jeans |(3) Control |profile |from |consistent with the | | |
|(2) Blue black |gauze |generated|blood-stain|DNA profile of the | | |
|Nokia mobile |(4) Penile |from |ed red |blood of the accused | | |
|phone bearing |Swab |jeans |coloured |Akshay. | | |
|IMEI |(5)Nail |pant of |banian | | | |
|No.35928604015 |clippings |the |recovered | | | |
|(3) |(6) Underwear|accused |at the | | | |
|Blood-stained |(7) Scalp |matched |behest of | | | |
|red coloured |hair and |the DNA |accused | | | |
|banian. |Pubic hair |profile |matched the| | | |
|(4) One silver |(8) Red |of PW1. |DNA profile| | | |
|ring |colour banian| |of the | | | |
|(5) Two metro | | |victim. | | | |
|cards | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |
| | | | | | | |

|ACCUSED VINAY (A-4) | | |
|ARTICLES RECOVERED | |Findings of DNA |DNA generated |
|FROM ACCUSED | |generated from |from other |
| | |clothes |articles, swab |
| | | |etc. |
|Recovery pursuant to |Samples |Items |Items |FINDINGS | | |
|disclosure statement |collected |matching |matching |(Ex.PW45/B) | | |
| |from the |DNA |DNA profile| | | |
| |person of the|profile |of Victim. | | | |
| |accused |of PW1 | | | | |
|(1) |(2) |(3) |(4) |(5) |
|1.Blood-stained blue | (1) Blood in|One set |The DNA |(1) Blood was | | |
|coloured jeans |gauze |of the |profile |detected only in| | |
|(Ex.P-68/1) |(2)Nail |DNA |generated |gauze, nail | | |
|2.Blood-stained black |clippings |profile |from |clipping and | | |
|coloured jacket |(3) Urethral |generated|blood-stain|pubic hair of | | |
|(Ex.P-68/2) |swab |from |ed |the accused but | | |
|3.blood-stained full |(4)Glans swab|sports |underwear, |the same did not| | |
|sleeved black coloured|(5)Cut of |jacket of|chappal and|yield female | | |
|T-shirt (Ex.P-68/3) |pubic hair |the |jacket |fraction DNA for| | |
|4.blue coloured |(6) Saliva |accused |recovered |analysis. | | |
|chappals |(7) Stray |matched |at the | | | |
|(Ex.P-68/4) |hair |the DNA |behest of | | | |
|5. Hush Puppy |(8) Underwear|profile |accused | | | |
|shoes(Ex.P2 under Ex. | |of PW1. |matched the| | | |
|PW-68/C) |(9)Mons Pubis| |DNA profile| | | |
|6. Black coloured | | |of the | | | |
|Nokia mobile phone | | |victim. | | | |
|with IMEI | | | | | | |
|No.353183039047391 | | | | | | |
|(Ex.P-68/5) | | | | | | |

|ACCUSED PAWAN GUPTA @ KALU (A-5) | | |
|(1) |(2) |(3) |(4) |(5) |
|Disclosure statement | (1) Blood in|One set |(1) Another |(1) Blood was | | |
|recorded by PW-60 HC |gauze |of the |set of DNA |detected only in| | |
|Mahabir. |(2)Nail |DNA |profile |gauze and nail | | |
|Following items |clippings |profile |generated |clipping of the | | |
|recovered on |(3)Urethral |generated|from sweater|accused but the | | |
|19.12.2012: |swab |from |recovered at|same did not | | |
|(1)one blood-stained |(4)Glans swab|black |the behest |yield female | | |
|black coloured sweater|(5) Cut of |coloured |of the |fraction DNA for| | |
| |pubic hair |sweater |accused |analysis. | | |
|(Ex. P-68/6) |(6) Saliva |of the |matched the | | | |
|(2)blood-stained coca |(7) Stray |accused |DNA profile | | | |
|cola (colour) pants. |hair |matched |of the | | | |
|(Ex.68/7) | |the DNA |victim. | | | |
|(3)Blood-stained brown| |profile | | | | |
|coloured underwear | |of PW-1. |(2) DNA | | | |
|(Ex.P-68/8) | | |profile | | | |
|(4)Brown coloured | | |generated | | | |
|sports shoes | | |from sports | | | |
|(Ex.P-68/9) | | |shoes of the| | | |
|(5)One wristwatch of | | |accused | | | |
|Sonata make | | |matched with| | | |
|(Ex.P-3) | | |the DNA | | | |
|(6)Two currency notes | | |profile of | | | |
|of Rs.500/- each | | |the | | | |
|(Ex.P-7) | | |prosecutrix | | | |
|Site plan of the spot | | | | | | |
|from where the said | | | | | | |
|articles are recovered| | | | | | |
|and seized | | | | | | |
|(Ex. PW-68). | | | | | | | 85. Before considering the above findings of DNA analysis contained in
tabular form, let me first refer to what is DNA, the infallibility of
identification by DNA profiling and its accuracy with certainty. DNA – De-
oxy-ribonucleic acid, which is found in the chromosomes of the cells of
living beings, is the blueprint of an individual. DNA is the genetic blue
print for life and is virtually contained in every cell. No two persons,
except identical twins have ever had identical DNA. DNA profiling is an
extremely accurate way to compare a suspect’s DNA with crime scene
specimens, victim’s DNA on the blood-stained clothes of the accused or
other articles recovered, DNA testing can make a virtually positive
identification when the two samples match. A DNA finger print is identical
for every part of the body, whether it is the blood, saliva, brain, kidney
or foot on any part of the body. It cannot be changed; it will be identical
no matter what is done to a body. Even relatively minute quantities of
blood, saliva or semen at a crime scene or on clothes can yield sufficient
material for analysis. The Experts opine that the identification is almost
hundred per cent precise. Using this i.e. chemical structure of genetic
information by generating DNA profile of the individual, identification of
an individual is done like in the traditional method of identifying finger
prints of offenders. Finger prints are only on the fingers and at times
may be altered. Burning or cutting a finger can change the make of the
finger print. But DNA cannot be changed for an individual no matter
whatever happens to a body. 86. We may usefully refer to Advanced Law Lexicon, 3rd Edition Reprint
2009 by P. Ramanatha Aiyar which explains DNA as under:- 87. DNA evidence is now a predominant forensic technique for identifying
criminals when biological tissues are left at the scene of crime or for
identifying the source of blood found on any articles or clothes etc.
recovered from the accused or from witnesses. DNA testing on samples such
as saliva, skin, blood, hair or semen not only helps to convict the accused
but also serves to exonerate. The sophisticated technology of DNA finger
printing makes it possible to obtain conclusive results. Section 53A Cr.P.C. is added by the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2005.
It provides for a detailed medical examination of accused for an offence of
rape or attempt to commit rape by the registered medical practitioners
employed in a hospital run by the Government or by a local authority or in
the absence of such a practitioner within the radius of 16 kms. from the
place where the offence has been committed by any other registered medical
practitioner. 88. Observing that DNA is scientifically accurate and exact science and
that the trial court was not justified in rejecting DNA report, in Santosh
Kumar Singh v. State through CBI (2010) 9 SCC 747, the Court held as under:- 89. From the evidence of PW-45 and the details given in the above tabular
form, it is seen that the DNA profile generated from blood-stained clothes
of the accused namely, A-1 Ram Singh (dead); A-2 Mukesh; A-3 Akshay; A-4
Vinay; and A-5 Pawan Gupta @ Kalu are found consistent with the DNA profile
of the prosecutrix. Also as noted above, two sets of DNA profile were
generated from the black colour sweater of the accused Pawan. One set of
DNA profile found to be female in origin, consistent with the DNA profile
of the prosecutrix; other set found to be male in origin, consistent with
the DNA profile of PW-1. Likewise, two sets of DNA profile were generated
from the black colour sports jacket of accused Vinay, one of which matched
the DNA profile of the prosecutrix and another one matched the DNA profile
of PW-1. Likewise, two sets of DNA profile were generated from the jeans
pant of accused Akshay, one of which matched the DNA profile of the
prosecutrix and another one matched the DNA profile of PW-1. The result of
DNA analysis and that of the DNA profile generated from blood-stained
clothes of the accused found consistent with that of the victim is a strong
piece of evidence incriminating the accused in the offence. 90. DNA profile generated from the blood samples of accused Ram Singh
matched with the DNA profile generated from the rectal swab of the victim.
Blood as well as human spermatozoa was detected in the underwear of the
accused Ram Singh (dead) and DNA profile generated therefrom was found to
be female in origin, consistent with that of the victim. Likewise, the DNA
profile generated from the breast swab of the victim was found consistent
with the DNA profile of the accused Akshay. 91. As discussed earlier, identification by DNA genetic finger print is
almost hundred per cent precise and accurate. The DNA profile generated
from the blood-stained clothes of the accused and other articles are found
consistent with the DNA profile of the victim and DNA profile of PW-1; this
is a strong piece of evidence against the accused. In his evidence, PW-45
 Dr. B.K. Mohapatra has stated that once DNA profile is generated and
found consistent with another DNA profile, the accuracy is hundred per cent
and we find no reason to doubt his evidence. As pointed out by the Courts
below, the counsel for the defence did not raise any substantive ground to
rebut the findings of DNA analysis and the findings through the examination
of PW-45. The DNA report and the findings thereon, being scientifically
accurate clearly establish the link involving the accused persons in the
incident. 92. Conspiracy: The accused have been charged with the offence of
“conspiracy” to commit the offence of abduction, robbery/dacoity, gang rape
and unnatural sex, in pursuance of which the accused are alleged to have
picked up the prosecutrix and PW-1. The charge sheet also states that in
furtherance of conspiracy, the accused while committing the offence of gang
rape on the prosecutrix intentionally inflicted bodily injury with iron rod
and inserted the iron rod in the vital parts of her body with the common
intention to cause her death. 93. The learned amicus Mr. Sanjay Hegde submitted that there is no
specific evidence to prove that there was prior meeting of minds of the
accused and that they had conspired together to commit grave offence by use
of iron rod, resulting in the death of the victim and, therefore,
insertion/use of iron rod by any one of the accused cannot be attributed to
all the accused in order to hold them guilty of the offence of murder. 94. The essentials of the offence of conspiracy and the manner in which
it can be proved has been laid down by this Court through a catena of
judicial pronouncements and I choose to briefly recapitulate the law on the
point, so as to determine whether the offence is made out in this case or
not. Meeting of minds for committing an illegal act is sine qua non of the
offence of conspiracy. It is also obvious that meeting of minds, thereby
resulting in formation of a consensus between the parties, can be a sudden
act, spanning in a fraction of a minute. It is neither necessary that each
of the conspirators take active part in the commission of each and every
conspiratorial act, nor it is necessary that all the conspirators must know
each and every details of the conspiracy. Essence of the offence of
conspiracy is in agreement to break the law as aptly observed by this Court
in Major E.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay (1962) 2 SCR 195. 95. So far as the English law on conspiracy is concerned, which is the
source of Indian law, KENNY has succinctly stated that in modern times
conspiracy is defined as an agreement of two or more persons to effect any
unlawful purpose, whether as their ultimate aim or only as a means to it.
Stressing on the need of formation of an agreement, he has cautioned that
conspiracy should not be misunderstood as a purely mental crime, comprising
the concurrence of the intentions of the parties. The meaning of an
‘agreement’, he has explained by quoting following words of Lord
Chelmsford: 96. The most important aspect of the offence of conspiracy is that apart
from being a distinct statutory offence, all the parties to the conspiracy
are liable for the acts of each other and as an exception to the general
law in the case of conspiracy intent i.e. mens rea alone constitutes a
crime. As per Section 10 of the Evidence Act, once reasonable ground is
shown for believing that two or more persons have conspired to commit an
offence then, anything done by any one of them in reference to their common
intention, is admissible against the others. As held in State of
Maharashtra v. Damu and Others (2000) 6 SCC 269, the only condition for the
application of the rule in Section 10 of the Evidence Act is that there
must be reasonable ground to believe that two or more persons have
conspired together to commit an offence. 97. The principles relating to the offence of criminal conspiracy and the
standard of proof for establishing offence of conspiracy and the joint
liability of the conspirators have been elaborately laid down in Shivnarayan Laxminarayan Joshi and Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (1980) 2
 SCC 465; Mohammad Usman Mohammad Hussain Maniyar and Ors. v. State of
Maharashtra (1981) 2 SCC 443; Kehar Singh and Ors. v. State (Delhi
Administration ) (1988) 3 SCC 609; State of Maharashtra and Ors. v. Som Nath
Thapa and Ors. (1996) 4 SCC 659; State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu @
Afsan Guru (2005) 11 SCC 600; State Through Superintendent of Police,
CBI/SIT v. Nalini and Ors. ( 1999) 5 SCC 253 Yakub Abdul Razak Menon v. The
State of Maharashtra , through CBI, Bombay (2013) 13 SCC 1. 98. Another significant aspect of the offence of criminal conspiracy is
that it is very rare to find direct proof of it, because of the very fact
that it is hatched in secrecy. Unlike other offences, criminal conspiracy
in most of the cases is proved by circumstantial evidence only. It is
extremely rare that direct evidence in proof of conspiracy can be
forthcoming from wholly disinterested, quarters or from utter strangers.
Conspiracy is a matter of inference, deduced from words uttered, criminal
acts of the accused done in furtherance of conspiracy. ( Vide Noor Mohammad
Mohd. Yusuf Momin v. State of Maharashtra (1970) 1 SCC 696; Firozuddin
Basheeruddin and Ors. v. State of Kerala (2001) 7 SCC 596; Ram Narain Poply
v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Ors. (2003) 3 SCC 641; Yogesh @
Sachin Jagdish Joshi v. State of Maharashtra (2008) 10 SCC 394; Pratapbhai
Hamirbhai Solanki v. State of Gujarat and Anr. (2013) 1 SCC 613; Chandra
Prakash v. State of Rajasthan (2014) 8 SCC 340 etc.) 99. In Yogesh @ Sachin Jagdish Joshi v. State of Maharashtra (2008) 10
SCC 394, this Court, after referring to the law laid down in several
pronouncements, summarised the core principles of law of conspiracy in the
following words: 100. In the present case, there is ample evidence proving the acts,
statements and circumstances, establishing firm ground to hold that the
accused who were present in the bus were in prior concert to commit the
offence of rape. The prosecution has established that the accused were
associated with each other. The criminal acts done in furtherance of
conspiracy, is established by the sequence of events and the conduct of the
accused. Existence of conspiracy and its objects could be inferred from
the chain of events. The chain of events described by the victim in her
dying declarations coupled with the testimony of PW-1 clearly establish
that as soon as the complainant and the victim boarded the bus, the accused
switched off the lights of the bus. Few accused pinned down PW-1 and
others committed rape on the victim in the back side of the bus one after
the other. The accused inserted iron rods in the private parts of the
prosecutrix, dragging her holding her hair and then threw her outside the
bus. The victim has also maintained in her dying declaration that the
accused persons were exhorting that the victim has died and she be thrown
out of the bus. Ultimately, both the victim and the complainant were
thrown out of the moving bus through the front door, having failed to throw
them through the rear door. The chain of action and the act of finally
throwing the victim and PW-1 out of the bus show that there was unity of
object among the accused to commit rape and destroy the evidence thereon. 101. In this case, the existence of conspiracy is sought to be drawn by an
inference from the circumstances: (i) the accused did not allow any other
passenger to board the bus after PW-1 and the prosecutrix boarded the bus; (ii) switching off the lights; pinning PW-1 down by some while others
commit rape/unnatural sex with the prosecutrix at the rear side of the bus; (iii) exhortation by some of the accused that the victim be not left alive;
and (iv) their act of throwing the victim and PW-1 out of the running bus
without clothes in the wintery night of December. Existence of conspiracy
and its objects is inferred from the above circumstances and the words
uttered. In my view, the courts below have rightly drawn an inference that
there was prior meeting of minds among the accused and they have rightly
held that the prosecution has proved the existence of conspiracy to commit
gang rape and other offences. 102. As already stated in the beginning, in achieving the goal of the
conspiracy, several offences committed by some of the conspirators may not
be known to others, still all the accused will be held guilty of the
offence of criminal conspiracy. The trial court has recorded that the
victim’s complete alimentary canal from the level of duodenum upto 5 cm
from anal sphincter was completely damaged. It was beyond repair. Causing
of damage to jejunum is indicative of the fact that the rods were inserted
through vagina and/or anus upto the level of jejunum.” Further “the
septicemia was the direct result of internal multiple injuries”. Use of
iron rod by one or more of the accused is sufficient to inculpate all the
accused for the same. In the present case, gang rape and use of iron rod
caused grave injuries to victim’s vagina and intestines; throwing her out
of the bus in that vegetative state in chilled weather led to her death;
all this taking place in the course of same transaction and with the active
involvement of all the accused is more than sufficient evidence to find the
accused guilty of criminal conspiracy. I, thus, affirm the findings of the
courts below with regard to conviction of all the accused under Section 120-
B IPC and Section 302 read with Section 120-B IPC. 103. Apart from considering the principles of law of conspiracy
distinctly, if we consider it in the context of ‘conspiracy to commit the
offence of gang rape, unnatural sex etc., as is specifically relevant in
the present case, we find that existence of common intent and joint
liability is already implicit in the offence of gang rape. Gang rape is
dealt with in clause (g) of sub-section (2) of Section 376 IPC
read with Explanation 1. As per Explanation 1 to Section 376 IPC, “where a
woman is raped by one or more in a group of persons acting in furtherance
of their common intention, each of the persons shall be deemed to have
committed gang rape” and all of them shall be liable to be punished under
sub-section (2) of Section 376 IPC. As per Explanation 1, by
operation of deeming provision, a person who has not actually committed
rape is deemed to have committed rape even if only one of the groups has
committed rape in furtherance of the common intention. 104. While considering the scope of Section 376(2)(g) IPC read with
Explanation, in Ashok Kumar v. State of Haryana (2003) 2 SCC 143, this
Court held as under:- 105. The prosecution has established the presence of the accused in the
bus and the heinous act of gang rape committed on the prosecutrix by the
accused by the ample evidence – by the multiple dying declaration of the
victim and also by the evidence of PW-1 and medical evidence and also by
arrest and recovery of incriminating articles of the victim and that of PW-
1 complainant. The scientific evidence in particular DNA analysis report
clearly brings home the guilt of the accused. 106. Section 235(2) , Criminal Procedure Code: Once the conviction of the
accused persons is affirmed, what remains to be decided is the question of
appropriate punishment imposed on them. On the aspect of sentencing, we
were very effectively assisted by the learned Amicus Curiae. Accused were
convicted vide judgment and order dated 10.09.2013 and on the very next day
of judgment i.e. on 11.09.2013, the arguments on sentencing were concluded.
 Thereafter, a separate order on sentence was pronounced on 13.09.2013. 107. Counsel for the appellants as well as the learned amicus Mr. Raju
Ramachandran contended that no effective opportunity was given to the
appellants to lead their defence on the point of sentencing as mandated
under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. and each of the accused were not individually
heard in person on the question of sentence. Learned Amicus Curiae, Mr.
Raju Ramachandran submitted only the counsel for the accused were heard and
all the accused were treated alike irrespective of their individual
background and were sentenced to death, which is in clear violation of the
mandate of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. It was submitted that Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is intended to give an opportunity to the accused to place before
the Court all the relevant facts and material having a bearing on the
question of sentence and, therefore, salutary provision should not have
been treated as a mere formality by the trial court. In support of his
contention, the learned Amicus has placed reliance upon a number of
judgments viz. – ( i) Dagdu & Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (1977) 3 SCC
68; (ii) Malkiat Singh and Ors. v. State of Punjab (1991) 4 SCC
341; and (iii) Ajay Pandit alias Jagdish Dayabhai Patel and Anr. v. State
of Maharashtra (2012) 8 SCC 43. 108. Section 235 Cr.P.C. deals with the judgments of acquittal or
conviction. Under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C., where the accused is convicted,
save in cases of admonition or release on good conduct, the Judge shall
hear the accused on the question of sentence and then pass sentence in
accordance with law. Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. imposes duty on the court to
hear the accused on the question of sentence and then pass sentence on him
in accordance with law. The only exception to the said rule is created in
case of applicability of Section 360 Cr.P.C. i.e. when the court finds the
accused eligible to be released on probation of good conduct or after
admonition. 109. Section 354 Cr.P.C. specifies the language and contents of judgment,
while delivering the judgment in a criminal case. Section 354(3) Cr.P.C.
deals with judgments where conviction is for an offence punishable with
death penalty or in the alternative with imprisonment for life. Section 354(3) Cr.P.C. mandates that when the conviction is for an offence
punishable with death or, in the alternative, with imprisonment for life or
imprisonment for a term of years, the judgment shall state the reasons for
the sentence awarded, and in the case of sentence of death, the special
reasons for such sentence. 110. The statutory duty to state special reasons under Section 354(3) Cr.P.C. can be meaningfully carried out only if the hearing on sentence
under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is effective and procedurally fair. To afford
an effective opportunity to the accused, the Court must hear on the
question of sentence to know about (i) age of the accused; (ii) background
of the accused; (iii) prior criminal antecedents, if any; (iv) possibility
of reformation, if any; and (v) such other relevant factors. The major
deficiency in the complex criminal justice system is that important factors
which have a bearing on sentence are not placed before the Court.
Resultantly, the Courts are constantly faced with the dilemma to impose an
appropriate sentence. In this context, hearing of the accused under Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. on the question of sentencing is a
crucial exercise which is intended to enable the accused to place before
the Court all the mitigating circumstances in his favour viz. his social
and economic backwardness, young age etc. The mandate of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. becomes more crucial when the accused is found guilty of an offence
punishable with death penalty or with the life imprisonment. 111. It is well-settled that Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is intended to give an
opportunity of hearing to the prosecution as well as the accused on the
question of sentence. The Court while awarding the sentence has to take
into consideration various factors having a bearing on the question of
sentence. In case, Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. is not complied with, as held in
Dagdu’s case, the appellate Court can either send back the case to the
Sessions Court for complying with Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. so as to enable
the accused to adduce materials; or, in order to avoid delay, the appellate
Court may by itself give an opportunity to the parties in terms of Section 235(2) Cr.P.C. to produce the materials they wish to adduce instead
of sending the matter back to the trial Court for hearing on sentence. In
the present case, we felt it appropriate to adopt the latter course and
accordingly asked the counsel appearing for the appellants to file
affidavits/materials on the question of sentence. Consequently, vide order
dated 03.02.2017, we directed the learned counsel for the accused to place
in writing, before this Court, their submissions, whatever they desired to
place on the question of sentence. In compliance with the order,
Mr. M.L. Sharma, learned counsel on behalf of the accused A-2 Mukesh and A-
5 Pawan and Mr. A.P. Singh, learned counsel on behalf of the accused Akshay
Kumar Singh, Vinay Sharma and Pawan Gupta filed the individual affidavits
of the accused. 112. Accused Mukesh (A-2) in his affidavit has stated that he was picked up
from his house at Karoli, Rajasthan and brought to Delhi and reiterated
that he is innocent and he denied his involvement in the occurrence. In
their affidavits, accused Akshay Kumar Singh (A-3), accused Vinay Sharma (A- 4) and accused Pawan Gupta (A-5) submitted in their individual affidavits
have stated that they hail from an ordinary/ poor background and are not
much educated. They have also stated that they have aged parents and other
family members who are dependent on them and they are to be supported by
them. Accused have also stated that they have no criminal antecedents and
that after their confinement in Tihar Jail they have maintained good
behavior. 113. Learned counsel Mr. M.L. Sharma submitted that accused Mukesh (A-2)
is innocent and he has been falsely implicated only because he is the
brother of accused Ram Singh. 114. Taking us through the affidavits filed by the accused, learned
counsel Mr. A.P. Singh submitted that the accused namely Akshay Kumar
Singh, Pawan Gupta and Vinay Sharma hail from very poor background; and
have got large families to support; and have no criminal antecedents. It
has been contended that having regard to the fact that the three accused
have no prior criminal antecedents and are not hardened criminals, the case
will not fall under “rarest of rare cases” to affirm the death sentence. 115. Supplementing the affidavits filed by the accused, the learned amicus
and senior counsel Mr. Raju Ramachandran and Mr. Sanjay Hegde submitted
that assuming that the conviction of the appellants are confirmed, the
accused who hail from very ordinary poor background and having no criminal
antecedents, the death sentence be commuted to life imprisonment. 116. Question of awarding sentence is a matter of discretion and has to be
exercised on consideration of circumstances aggravating or mitigating in
the individual cases. The courts are consistently faced with the situation
where they are required to answer the new challenges and mould the sentence
to meet those challenges. Protection of society and deterring the criminal
is the avowed object of law. It is expected of the courts to operate the
sentencing system as to impose such sentence which reflects the social
conscience of the society. While determining sentence in heinous crimes,
Judges ought to weigh its impact on the society and impose adequate
sentence considering the collective conscience or society’s cry for
justice. While considering the imposition of appropriate punishment,
courts should not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the
rights of the victim and the society at large. 117. In State of M.P. v. Munna Choubey and Anr. (2005) 2 SCC 710, it was
observed as under: 118. In Jashubha Bharatsinh Gohil and Ors. v. State of Gujarat (1994) 4
SCC 353, while upholding the award of death sentence, this Court held that
sentencing process has to be stern where the circumstances demand so.
Relevant extract is as under: 119. Whether the Case falls under rarest of rare cases: Law relating to
award of death sentence in India has evolved through massive policy reforms-
nationally as well as internationally and through a catena of judicial
pronouncements, showcasing distinct phases of our view towards imposition
of death penalty. Undoubtedly, continuing prominence of reformative
approach in sentencing and India’s international obligations have been
majorly instrumental in facilitating a visible shift in court’s view
towards restricting imposition of death sentence. While closing the shutter
of deterrent approach of sentencing in India, the small window of ‘award of
death sentence’ was left open in the category of ‘rarest of rare case’ in Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab (1980) 2 SCC 684, by a Constitution Bench
of this Court. 120. In Bachan Singh (supra), while upholding the constitutional validity
of capital sentence, this Court revisited the law relating to death
sentence at that point of time, by thoroughly discussing the law laid down
in Jagmohan Singh v. State of U.P. (1973) 1 SCC 20; Rajendra Prasad v.
State of U.P. (1979) 3 SCR 646 and other cases. The principles laid down in Bachan Singh’s case is that, normal rule is awarding of ‘life sentence’,
imposition of death sentence being justified, only in rarest of rare case,
when the option of awarding sentence of life imprisonment is unquestionably
foreclosed’. By virtue of Bachan Singh (supra), ‘life imprisonment’ became
the rule and ‘death sentence’ an exception. The focus was shifted from
‘crime’ to the ‘crime and criminal’ i.e. now the nature and gravity of the
crime needs to be analysed juxtaposed to the peculiar circumstances
attending the societal existence of the criminal. The principles laid down
in Bachan Singh’s case were considered in Machhi Singh and Ors. v. State of
Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 and was summarised as under:- The following propositions emerge from Bachan Singh 's case (supra): 121. In Machhi Singh’s case, this Court took the view that in every case
where death penalty is a question, a balance sheet of aggravating and
mitigating circumstances must be drawn up before arriving at the decision.
The Court held that for practical application of the doctrine of ‘rarest of
rare case’, it must be understood broadly in the background of five
categories of cases crafted thereon that is ‘Manner of commission of
crime’, ‘Motive’, ‘Anti-social or socially abhorrent nature of the crime’,
‘Magnitude of crime’, and ‘Personality of victim of murder’. These five
categories are elaborated in para nos. 32 to 37 as under:- (ii) when the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture or cruelty in
order to bring about his or her death. (iii) when the body of the victim is cut into pieces or his body is
dismembered in a fiendish manner. II. Motive for commission of murder 34. When the murder is committed for a motive which evinces total depravity
and meanness. For instance when (a) a hired assassin commits murder for the
sake of money or reward (b) a cold-blooded murder is committed with a
deliberate design in order to inherit property or to gain control over
property of a ward or a person under the control of the murderer or vis-a-
vis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of
trust, or (c) a murder is committed in the course for betrayal of the
motherland. III. Anti-social or socially abhorrent nature of the crime 35. (a) When murder of a member of a Scheduled Caste or minority community
etc., is committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which
arouse social wrath. For instance when such a crime is committed in order
to terrorize such persons and frighten them into fleeing from a place or in
order to deprive them of, or make them surrender, lands or benefits
conferred on them with a view to reverse past injustices and in order to
restore the social balance. (b) In cases of “bride burning” and what are known as “dowry deaths” or
when murder is committed in order to remarry for the sake of extracting
dowry once again or to marry another woman on account of infatuation. IV. Magnitude of crime 36. When the crime is enormous in proportion. For instance when multiple
murders say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number
of persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed. V. Personality of victim of murder 37. When the victim of murder is (a) an innocent child who could not have
or has not provided even an excuse, much less a provocation, for murder (b)
a helpless woman or a person rendered helpless by old age or infirmity (c)
when the victim is a person vis-a-vis whom the murderer is in a position of
domination or trust (d) when the victim is a public figure generally loved
and respected by the community for the services rendered by him and the
murder is committed for political or similar reasons other than personal
reasons.” 122. The principle laid down in Bachan Singh (supra) and Machhi Singh (supra) came to be discussed and applied in all the cases relating to
imposition of death penalty for committing heinous offences. However,
lately, it was felt that the courts have not correctly applied the law laid
down in Bachan Singh (supra) and Machhi Singh (supra), which has led to
inconsistency in sentencing process in India; also it was observed that the
list of categories of murder crafted in Machhi Singh (supra), in which
death sentence ought to be awarded are not exhaustive and needs to be given
even more expansive adherence owing to changed legal scenario. In Swamy
Shradhananda alias Murali Manohar Mishra (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008)
13 SCC 767; a three-Judge Bench of this Court, observed as under in this
regard:- There were no reports of custodial deaths and rape and fake encounters by
police or even by armed forces. These developments would unquestionably
find a more pronounced reflection in any classification if one were to be
made today. Relying upon the observations in Bachan Singh, therefore, we
respectfully wish to say that even though the categories framed in Machhi
Singh provide very useful guidelines, nonetheless those cannot be taken as
inflexible, absolute or immutable. Further, even in those categories, there
would be scope for flexibility as observed in Bachan Singh itself.” 123. A milestone in the sentencing policy is the concept of ‘life
imprisonment till the remainder of life’ evolved in Swamy Shradhananda
(2)(supra). In this case, a man committed murder of his wife for usurping
her property in a cold-blooded, calculated and diabolic manner. The trial
court convicted the accused and death penalty was imposed on him which was
affirmed by the High Court. Though the conviction was affirmed by this
Court also on the point of sentencing, the views of a two-Judge Bench of
this Court, in Swamy Shradhananda v. State of Karnataka (2007) 12 SCC 282
differed, and consequently, the matter was listed before a three-Judge
Bench, wherein a mid way was carved. The three-Judge Bench, was of the view
that even though the murder was diabolic, presence of certain circumstances
in favour of the accused, viz. no mental or physical pain being inflicted
on the victim, confession of the accused before the High Court etc., made
them reluctant to award death sentence. However, the Court also realised
that award of life imprisonment, which euphemistically means imprisonment
for a term of 14 years (consequent to exercise of power of commutation by
the executive), would be equally disproportionate punishment to the crime
committed. Hence, in Swamy Shradhananda (2) (supra) the Court directed
that the accused shall not be released from the prison till the rest of his
life. Relevant extract from the judgment reads as under: 124. After referring to a catena of judicial pronouncements post Bachan
Singh (supra) and Machhi Singh (supra), in the case of Ramnaresh and Ors.
v. State of Chhattisgarh (2012) 4 SCC 257, this Court, tried to lay down a
nearly exhaustive list of aggravating and mitigating circumstances. It
would be apposite to refer to the same here: Mitigating circumstances

(1) The manner and circumstances in and under which the offence was
committed, for example, extreme mental or emotional disturbance or extreme
provocation in contradistinction to all these situations in normal course. (2) The age of the accused is a relevant consideration but not a
determinative factor by itself. (3) The chances of the accused of not indulging in commission of the
crime again and the probability of the accused being reformed and
rehabilitated. (4) The condition of the accused shows that he was mentally defective and
the defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the circumstances of his
criminal conduct. (5) The circumstances which, in normal course of life, would render such
a behaviour possible and could have the effect of giving rise to mental
imbalance in that given situation like persistent harassment or, in fact,
leading to such a peak of human behaviour that, in the facts and
circumstances of the case, the accused believed that he was morally
justified in committing the offence. (6) Where the court upon proper appreciation of evidence is of the view
that the crime was not committed in a preordained manner and that the death
resulted in the course of commission of another crime and that there was a
possibility of it being construed as consequences to the commission of the
primary crime. (7) Where it is absolutely unsafe to rely upon the testimony of a sole
eyewitness though the prosecution has brought home the guilt of the
accused.” 125. Similarly, this Court in Sangeet and Another v. State of Haryana (2013) 2 SCC 452, extensively analysed the evolution of sentencing policy
in India and stressed on the need for further evolution. In para (77),
this Court emphasized on making the sentencing process a principled one,
rather than Judge-centric one and held that a re-look is needed at some
conclusions that have been taken for granted and we need to continue the
development of the law on the basis of experience gained over the years and
views expressed in various decisions of this Court. 126. As dealing with sentencing, courts have thus applied the “Crime
Test”, “Criminal Test” and the “Rarest of the Rare Test”, the tests examine
whether the society abhors such crimes and whether such crimes shock the
conscience of the society and attract intense and extreme indignation of
the community. Courts have further held that where the victims are
helpless women, children or old persons and the accused displayed depraved
mentality, committing crime in a diabolic manner, the accused should be
shown no remorse and death penalty should be awarded. Reference may be
made to Holiram Bordoloi v. State of Assam (2005) 3 SCC 793 [Para 15-17], Ankush Maruti Shinde and Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 667
(para 31-34), Kamta Tiwari v. State of Madhya Pradesh ( 1996) 6 SCC 250
(para 7-8), State of U.P. v. Satish (2005) 3 SCC 114 (para 24-31), Sundar
alias Sundarajan v. State by Inspector of Police and Anr. (2013) 3 SCC 215
(para 36-38, 42-42.7, 43), Sevaka Perumal and Anr. v. State of Tamil Nadu
(1991) 3 SCC 471 (para 8-10, 12), Mohfil Khan and Anr. v. State of
Jharkhand (2015) 1 SCC 67 (para 63-65). 127. Even the young age of the accused is not a mitigating circumstance
for commutation to life, as has been held in the case of Bhagwan Swarup v.
State of U.P. (1971) 3 SCC 759 (para 5), Deepak Rai v. State of Bihar
(2013) 10 SCC 421 (para 91-100) and Shabhnam v. State of Uttar Pradesh
(2015) 6 SCC 632 (para 36). 128. Let me now refer to a few cases of rape and murder where this Court
has confirmed the sentence of death. In Molai & Anr.  v. State of M.P. (1999) 9 SCC 581, death sentence awarded to both the accused for
committing offences under Sections 376 (2)(g) IPC, 302 read with Section
34 IPC and 201 IPC , was confirmed by this Court. The accused had committed
gang rape on the victim, strangulated her thereafter and threw away her
body into the septic tank with the cycle, after causing stab injuries. It
was held as under: The Court awarded extreme punishment of death, holding that for deciding
just and appropriate sentence to be awarded for an offence, the aggravating
and mitigating factors and circumstances in which a crime has been
committed must be delicately balanced by the Court in a dispassionate
manner. 130. In Ankush Maruti Shinde and Ors. v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6
SCC 667, concerned accused were found guilty of offences under Sections 307 IPC, 376(2)(g) IPC and 397 read with 395 and 396 of IPC . This Court
declined to interfere with the concurrent findings of the courts below and
upheld death penalty awarded to the accused, taking into account the
brutality of the incident, tender age of the deceased, and the fact of a
minor girl being mercilessly gang raped and then put to death. The court
also noted that there was no provocation from the deceased’s side and the
two surviving eye witnesses had fully corroborated the case of the
prosecution. 131. In Mehboob Batcha and Ors. v. State rep. by Supdt. of Police (2011)
7 SCC 45, accused were policemen who had wrongfully confined one Nandagopal
in police custody in Police Station Annamalai Nagar on suspicion of theft
from 30.05.1992 till 02.06.1992 and had beaten him to death there with
lathis, and had also gang raped his wife Padmini in a barbaric manner. This
Court could not award death penalty due to omission of the courts below in
framing charge under Section 302 , IPC. However, the observations made by
this Court are worth quoting here: …………….. 9. We have held in Satya Narain Tiwari @ Jolly and Anr. v. State of U.P. (2010) 13 SCC 689 and in Sukhdev Singh v. State of Punjab , (2010) 13 SCC
656 that crimes against women are not ordinary crimes committed in a fit of
anger or for property. They are social crimes. They disrupt the entire
social fabric, and hence they call for harsh punishment…………” 132. In Mohd. Mannan @ Abdul Mannan v. State of Bihar (2011) 5 SCC 317,
this Court upheld award of death sentence to a 43 year old accused who
brutally raped and murdered a minor girl, while holding a position of
trust. Relevant considerations of the Court while affirming the death
sentence are extracted as under: 133. In Dhananjoy Chatterjee alias Dhana v. State of W.B. (1994) 2 SCC
220, a security guard who was entrusted with the security of a residential
apartment had raped and murdered an eighteen year old inhabitant of one of
the flats in the said apartment, between 5.30 p.m. and 5.45 p.m. The entire
case of the prosecution was based on circumstantial evidence. However,
Court found that it was a fit case for imposing death penalty. Following
observation of the Court while imposing death penalty is worth quoting:- 134. In a landmark judgment Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra (2013) 5 SCC 546, Justice Madan B. Lokur (Concurring) after analysing
various cases of rape and murder, wherein death sentence was confirmed by
this Court, in para (122) briefly laid down the grounds which weighed with
the Court in confirming the death penalty and the same read as under:- State of W.B. (1994) 2 SCC 220, Laxman Naik v. State of Orissa (1994) 3 SCC
381, Kamta Tewari v. State of M.P. (1996) 6 SCC 250, Nirmal Singh v. State
of Haryana (1999) 3 SCC 670, Jai Kumar v. State of M.P. ( 1999) 5 SCC 1,
State of U.P. v. Satish (2005) 3 SCC 114, Bantu v. State of U.P. ( 2008) 11
SCC 113, Ankush Maruti Shinde v. State of Maharashtra (2009) 6 SCC 667,
B.A. Umesh v. State of Karnataka (2011) 3 SCC 85, Mohd. Mannan v. State of
Bihar ( 2011) 5 SCC 317 and Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of
Maharashtra (2012) 4 SCC 37); (2) the crime results in public abhorrence, shocks the judicial conscience
or the conscience of society or the community (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (1994)
2 SCC 220, Jai Kumar (1999) 5 SCC 1, Ankush Maruti Shinde (2009) 6 SCC 667
and Mohd. Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317); (3) the reform or rehabilitation of the convict is not likely or that he
would be a menace to society (Jai Kumar(1999) 5 SCC 1, B.A. Umesh (2011) 3
SCC 85 and Mohd. Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317); (4) the victims were defenceless (Dhananjoy Chatterjee (1994) 2 SCC 220,
Laxman Naik (1994) 3 SCC 381, Kamta Tewari (1996) 6 SCC 250, Ankush Maruti
Shinde (2009) 6 SCC 667, Mohd. Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317 and Rajendra
Pralhadrao Wasnik (2012) 4 SCC 37); (5) the crime was either unprovoked or that it was premeditated (Dhananjoy
Chatterjee (1994) 2 SCC 220, Laxman Naik (1994) 3 SCC 381, Kamta Tewari
(1996) 6 SCC 250, Nirmal Singh (1999) 3 SCC 670, Jai Kumar (1999) 5 SCC 1,
Ankush Maruti Shinde (2009) 6 SCC 667, B.A. Umesh (2011) 3 SCC 85 and Mohd.
Mannan (2011) 5 SCC 317) and in three cases the antecedents or the prior
history of the convict was taken into consideration ( Shivu v. High Court of
Karnataka (2007) 4 SCC 713, B.A. Umesh (2011) 3 SCC 85 and Rajendra
Pralhadrao Wasnik (2012) 4 SCC 37).” 135. We also refer to para (106) of Shankar Kisanrao Khade’s case where
Justice Madan B. Lokur (Concurring) has exhaustively analysed the case of
rape and murder where death penalty was converted to that of imprisonment
for life and some of the factors that weighed with the Court in such
commutation. Para (106) reads as under:- State of U.P.(2012) 4 SCC 107 aged 28 years]; (2) the possibility of reforming and rehabilitating the accused (in Santosh
Kumar Singh (2010) 9 SCC 747 and Amit v. State of U.P.(2012) 4 SCC 107 the
accused, incidentally, were young when they committed the crime); (3) the accused had no prior criminal record (Nirmal Singh (1999) 3 SCC
670, Raju (2001) 9 SCC 50, Bantu (2001) 9 SCC 615, Amit v. State of
Maharashtra (2003) 8 SCC 93, Surendra Pal Shivbalakpal (2005) 3 SCC 127,
Rahul (2005) 10 SCC 322 and Amit v. State of U.P (2012) 4 SCC 107); (4) the accused was not likely to be a menace or threat or danger to
society or the community (Nirmal Singh (1999) 3 SCC 670, Mohd. Chaman
(2001) 2 SCC 28, Raju (2001) 9 SCC 50, Bantu (2001) 9 SCC 615, Surendra Pal
Shivbalakpal (2005) 3 SCC 127, Rahul (2005) 10 SCC 322 and Amit v. State
of U.P. (2012) 4 SCC 107). (5) a few other reasons need to be mentioned such as the accused having
been acquitted by one of the courts ( State of T.N. v. Suresh ( 1998) 2 SCC
372, State of Maharashtra v. Suresh ( 2000) 1 SCC 471, State of Maharashtra
v. Bharat Fakira Dhiwar (2002) 1 SCC 622, State of Maharashtra v. Mansingh
(2005) 3 SCC 131 and Santosh Kumar Singh (2010) 9 SCC 747); (6) the crime was not premeditated ( Kumudi Lal v. State of U.P. (1999) 4
SCC 108, Akhtar v. State of U.P. (1999) 6 SCC 60, Raju v. State of Haryana
(2001) 9 SCC 50 and Amrit Singh v. State of Punjab (2006) 12 SCC 79); (7) the case was one of circumstantial evidence (Mansingh (2005) 3 SCC 131
and Bishnu Prasad Sinha (2007) 11 SCC 467). In one case, commutation was ordered since there was apparently no
“exceptional” feature warranting a death penalty (Kumudi Lal (1999) 4 SCC 108) and in another case because the trial court had awarded life sentence
but the High Court enhanced it to death (Haresh Mohandas Rajput (2011) 12
SCC 56).” 136. In the same judgment in Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of
Maharashtra (2013) 5 SCC 546, Justice Madan B. Lokur (concurring) while
elaborately analysing the question of imposing death penalty in specific
facts and circumstances of that particular case, concerning rape and murder
of a minor, discussed the sentencing policy of India, with special
reference to execution of the sentences imposed by the Judiciary. The Court
noted the prima facie difference in the standard of yardsticks adopted by
two organs of the government viz. Judiciary and the Executive in treating
the life of convicts convicted of an offence punishable with death and
recommended consideration of Law Commission of India over this issue. The
relevant excerpt from the said judgment , highlighting the inconsistency in
the approach of Judiciary and Executive in the matter of sentencing, is as
under: 137. Another significant development in the sentencing policy of India is
the ‘victim-centric’ approach, clearly recognised in Machhi Singh (Supra)
and re-emphasized in a plethora of cases. It has been consistently held
that the courts have a duty towards society and that the punishment should
be corresponding to the crime and should act as a soothing balm to the
suffering of the victim and their family. [Ref: Gurvail Singh @ Gala and
Anr. v. State of Punjab (2013) 2 SCC 713; Mohfil Khan and Anr. v. State of
Jharkhand (2015) 1 SCC 67; Purushottam Dashrath Borate and Anr. v. State of
Maharashtra (2015) 6 SCC 652]. The Courts while considering the issue of
sentencing are bound to acknowledge the rights of the victims and their
family, apart from the rights of the society and the accused. The agony
suffered by the family of the victims cannot be ignored in any case. In Mohfil Khan (supra), this Court specifically observed that ‘it would be the
paramount duty of the Court to provide justice to the incidental victims of
the crime – the family members of the deceased persons. 138. The law laid down above, clearly sets forth the sentencing policy
evolved over a period of time. I now proceed to analyse the facts and
circumstances of the present case on the anvil of above-stated principles.
To be very precise, the nature and the manner of the act committed by the
accused, and the effect it casted on the society and on the victim’s
family, are to be weighed against the mitigating circumstances stated by
the accused and the scope of their reform, so as to reach a definite
reasoned conclusion as to what would be appropriate punishment in the
present case- ‘death sentence’, life sentence commutable to 14 years’ or
‘life imprisonment for the rest of the life’. 139. The question would be whether the present case could be one of the
rarest of rare cases warranting death penalty. Before the court proceed to
make a choice whether to award death sentence or life imprisonment, the
court is to draw up a balance-sheet of aggravating and mitigating
circumstances attending to the commission of the offence and then strike a
balance between those aggravating and mitigating circumstances. Two
questions are to be asked and answered:- (i) Is there something uncommon
about the crimes which regard sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate; (ii) Whether there is no alternative punishment suitable except death
sentence. Where a crime is committed with extreme brutality and the
collective conscience of the society is shocked, courts must award death
penalty, irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability of
death penalty. By not imposing a death sentence in such cases, the courts
may do injustice to the society at large. 140. We are here concerned with the award of an appropriate sentence in
case of brutal gang-rape and murder of a young lady, involving most
gruesome and barbaric act of inserting iron rods in the private parts of
the victim. The act was committed in connivance and collusion of six who
were on a notorious spree running a bus, showcasing as a public transport,
with the intent of attracting passengers and committing crime with them.
The victim and her friend were picked up from the Munirka bus stand with
the mala fide intent of ravishing and torturing her. The accused not only
abducted the victim, but gang-raped her, committed unnatural offence by
compelling her for oral sex, bit her lips, cheeks, breast and caused
horrifying injuries to her private parts by inserting iron rod which
ruptured the vaginal rectum, jejunum and rectum. The diabolical manner in
which crime was committed leaves one startled as to the pervert mental
state of the inflictor. On top of it, after having failed to kill her on
the spot, by running the bus over her, the victim was thrown half naked in
the wintery night, with grievous injuries. 141. If we look at the aggravating circumstances in the present case,
following factors would emerge: 142. As noted earlier, on the aspect of sentencing, seeking reduction of
death sentence to life imprisonment, three of the convicts/appellants
namely A-3 Akshay, A-4 Vinay and A-5 Pawan placed on record, through their
individual affidavits dated 23.03.2017, following mitigating circumstances:- In his affidavit, accused Mukesh reiterated his innocence and only pleaded
that he is falsely implicated in the case. 143. In Purushottam Dashrath Borate and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra (2015) 6 SCC 652, this Court held that age of the accused or family
background of the accused or lack of criminal antecedents cannot be said to
be the mitigating circumstance. It cannot also be considered as mitigating
circumstance, particularly taking into consideration, the nature of heinous
offence and cold and calculated manner in which it was committed by the
accused persons. 144. Society’s reasonable expectation is that deterrent punishment
commensurate with the gravity of the offence be awarded. When the crime is
brutal, shocking the collective conscience of the community, sympathy in
any form would be misplaced and it would shake the confidence of public in
the administration of criminal justice system. As held in Om Prakash v.
State of Haryana (1999) 3 SCC 19, the Court must respond to the cry of the
society and to settle what would be a deterrent punishment for what was an
apparently abominable crime. 145. Bearing in mind the above principles governing the sentencing policy,
I have considered all the aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the
present case. Imposition of appropriate punishment is the manner in which
the courts respond to the society’s cry for justice against the crime.
Justice demands that the courts should impose punishments befitting the
crime so that it reflects public abhorrence of the crime. Crimes like the
one before us cannot be looked with magnanimity. Factors like young age of
the accused and poor background cannot be said to be mitigating
circumstances. Likewise, post-crime remorse and post-crime good conduct of
the accused, the statement of the accused as to their background and family
circumstances, age, absence of criminal antecedents and their good conduct
in prison, in my view, cannot be taken as mitigating circumstances to take
the case out of the category of “rarest of rare cases”. The circumstances
stated by the accused in their affidavits are too slender to be treated as
mitigating circumstances. 146. In the present case, there is not even a hint of hesitation in my
mind with respect to the aggravating circumstances outweighing the
mitigating circumstances and I do not find any justification to convert the
death sentence imposed by the courts below to ‘life imprisonment for the
rest of the life’. The gruesome offences were committed with highest
viciousness. Human lust was allowed to take such a demonic form. The
accused may not be hardened criminals; but the cruel manner in which the
gang-rape was committed in the moving bus; iron rods were inserted in the
private parts of the victim; and the coldness with which both the victims
were thrown naked in cold wintery night of December, shocks the collective
conscience of the society. The present case clearly comes within the
category of ‘rarest of rare case’ where the question of any other
punishment is ‘unquestionably foreclosed’. If at all there is a case
warranting award of death sentence, it is the present case. If the
dreadfulness displayed by the accused in committing the gang-rape,
unnatural sex, insertion of iron rod in the private parts of the victim
does not fall in the ‘rarest of rare category’, then one may wonder what
else would fall in that category. On these reasoning recorded by me, I
concur with the majority in affirming the death sentence awarded to the
accused persons. 147. The incident of gang-rape on the night of 16.12.2012 in the capital
sparked public protest not only in Delhi but nation-wide. We live in a
civilized society where law and order is supreme and the citizens enjoy
inviolable fundamental human rights. But when the incident of gang-rape
like the present one surfaces, it causes ripples in the conscience of
society and serious doubts are raised as to whether we really live in a
civilized society and whether both men and women feel the same sense of
liberty and freedom which they should have felt in the ordinary course of a
civilized society, driven by rule of law. Certainly, whenever such grave
violations of human dignity come to fore, an unknown sense of insecurity
and helplessness grabs the entire society, women in particular, and the
only succour people look for, is the State to take command of the situation
and remedy it effectively. 148. The statistics of National Crime Records Bureau which I have indicated
in the beginning of my judgment show that despite the progress made by
women in education and in various fields and changes brought in ideas of
women’s rights, respect for women is on the decline and crimes against
women are on the increase. Offences against women are not a women’s issue
alone but, human rights issue. Increased rate of crime against women is an
area of concern for the law-makers and it points out an emergent need to
study in depth the root of the problem and remedy the same through a strict
law and order regime. There are a number of legislations and numerous penal
provisions to punish the offenders of violence against women. However, it
becomes important to ensure that gender justice does not remain only on
paper. 149. We have a responsibility to set good values and guidance for
posterity. In the words of great scholar, Swami Vivekananda, “the best
thermometer to the progress of a nation is its treatment of its women.”
Crime against women not only affects women’s self esteem and dignity but
also degrades the pace of societal development. I hope that this gruesome
incident in the capital and death of this young woman will be an eye-opener
for a mass movement “to end violence against women” and “respect for women
and her dignity” and sensitizing public at large on gender justice. Every
individual, irrespective of his/her gender must be willing to assume the
responsibility in fight for gender justice and also awaken public opinion
on gender justice. Public at large, in particular men, are to be sensitized
on gender justice. The battle for gender justice can be won only with
strict implementation of legislative provisions, sensitization of public,
taking other pro-active steps at all levels for combating violence against
women and ensuring widespread attitudinal changes and comprehensive change
in the existing mind set. We hope that this incident will pave the way for
the same. .………………………..J.
 [R. BANUMATHI]
New Delhi; May 05, 2017. ----------------------- [2] (1974) 4 SCC 201 = AIR 1974 SC 606
[3] [4] (2009) 6 SCC 308 [5] [6] (1997) 4 SCC 161
[7] [8] (1975) 4 SCC 153
[9] [10] (1978) 4 SCC 302
[11] [12] 1980 Supp SCC 567
[13] [14] (2011) 4 SCC 324
[15] [16] (2006) 12 SCC 64
[17] [18] (2011) 4 SCC 336
[19] [20] (2008) 5 SCC 368
[21] [22] (2008) 17 SCC 587 : AIR 2009 SC 152
[23] [24] (2008) 15 SCC 590 :AIR 2009 SC 331
[25] [26] (2009) 11 SCC 334
[27] [28] (2010) 13 SCC 657 : JT 2010 (12) SC 287
[29] [30] AIR 1953 SC 364
[31] [32] (1974) 3 SCC 277
[33] [34] (2002) 3 SCC 76
[35] [36] (2002) 8 SCC 381
[37] [38] (1981) 2 SCC 752
[39] [40] (1978) 4 SCC 161
[41] [42] (2009) 11 SCC 106
[43] [44] (2006) 10 SCC 601
[45] [46] (2012) 4 SCC 79
[47] [48] (2010) 10 SCC 259
[49] [50] (1973) 3 SCC 881
[51] [52] (1975) 3 SCC 311
[53] [54] (1983) 3 SCC 470
[55] [56] 1988 Supp SCC 241
[57] [58] (1995) 6 SCC 447
[59] [60] (1997) 7 SCC 712
[61] [62] (2002) 7 SCC 606
[63] [64] (2008) 8 SCC 270
[65] [66] (2009) 10 SCC 477
[67] [68] (2009) 12 SCC 546
[69] [70] (2010) 6 SCC 673
[71] [72] (2009) 9 SCC 719
[73] [74] 1994 Supp (3) SCC 235
[75] [76] (2004) 7 SCC 629
[77] [78] (2006) 12 SCC 459
[79] [80] (2012) 11 SCC 196
[81] [82] (2000) 4 SCC 484
[83] [84] (2009) 13 SCC 722
[85] [86] (1985) 1 SCC 505
[87] [88] (2002) 6 SCC 470
[89] [90] AIR 1965 SC 277
[91] [92] (2002) 6 SCC 81
[93] [94] 1988 (Supp.) SCC 686
[95] [96] (1999) 2 SCC 428
[97] [98] 214 (2014) DLT 646
[99] [100] AIR 1947 PC 67
[101] [102] (1972) 4 SCC 659
[103] [104] (1976) 1 SCC 828
[105] [106] AIR 1929 Lah 344
[107] [108] AIR 1932 Bom 286
[109] [110] AIR 1962 SC 1116
[111] [112] (2004) 10 SCC 657
[113] [114] (2005) 11 SCC 600
[115] [116] (2001) 1 SCC 652
[117] [118] (2012) 11 SCC 205
[119] [120] (2008) 12 SCC 173
[121] [122] (2013) 6 SCC 588
[123] [124] (1971) 2 SCC 75
[125] [126] (1973) 2 SCC 406
[127] [128] (2003) 5 SCC 746
[129] [130] (2003) 6 SCC 73
[131] [132] (2010) 6 SCC 1
[133] [134] (2005) 9 SCC 631
[135] [136] (1975) 4 scc 480
[137] [138] (2002) 6 SCC 710
[139] [140] (2010) 9 SCC 1
[141] [142] (1992) 2 SCC 474
[143] [144] (2008) 17 SCC 190
[145] [146] (2012) 7 SCC 569
[147] [148] (2010) 14 SCC 444
[149] [150] (2015) 11 SCC 154 : (2015) 2 SCR 1999 SC
[151] [152] (2003) 12 SCC 490
[153] [154] (1992) 4 SCC 225
[155] [156] (2015) 4 SCC 749
[157] [158] (1992) 4 SCC 69
[159] [160] (2013) 14 SCC 159
[161] [162] (1994) 4 SCC 182
[163] [164] (2004) 13 SCC 249
[165] [166] 1997 (1) Criminal Appeal Reports 369
[167] [168] 54 App. D.C. 46 (1923)
[169] [170] 113 S.CT. 2786 (1993)
[171] [172] 129 Supreme Court Reporter 2308
[173] [174] (2001) 5 SCC 311
[175] [176] (2009) 14 SCC 607
[177] [178] (2010) 9 SCC 747
[179] [180] (2011) 5 SCC 509
[181] [182] (2011) 7 SCC 130
[183] [184] (2011) 4 SCC 80
[185] [186] (2012) 9 SCC 1
[187] [188] (2012) 6 SCC 107
[189] [190] (2014) 5 SCC 353
[191] [192] (2014) 2 SCC 576
[193] [194] (1997) 1 SCC 283
[195] [196] (2002) 8 SCC 18
[197] [198] (2010) 8 SCC 430
[199] [200] (2012) 6 SCC 204
[201] [202] 1985 (Supp.) SCC 611
[203] [204] (1837) 173 ER 502
[205] [206] (1901) AC 495
[207] [208] AIR 1971 SC 885
[209] [210] AIR 1961 SC 1762
[211] [212] (1977) 4 SCC 540 [213] [214] (1988) 3 SCC 609
[215] [216] (2001) 1 SCC 378
[217] [218] (2009) 15 SCC 643
[219] [220] (1981) 2 SCC 443
[221] [222] (2013) 1 SCC 613
[223] [224] (2004) 12 SCC 336
[225] [226] (1996) 4 SCC 659
[227] [228] (2003) 3 SCC 641
[229] [230] (2005) 12 SCC 631
[231] [232] (1999) 5 SCC 253
[233] [234] (2001) 7 SCC 596
[235] [236] 1995 Supp (1) SCC 80
[237] [238] (1980) 2 SCC 665
[239] [240] (1976) 4 SCC 190
[241] [242] (1977) 3 SCC 68
[243] [244] (1980) 2 SCC 684
[245] [246] (1980) 2 SCC 684
[247] [248] (1983) 3 SCC 470
[249] [250] (2013) 2 SCC 452
[251] [252] (2013) 5 SCC 546
[253] [254] (2007) 4 SCC 713
[255] [256] (2011) 3 SCC 85
[257] [258] (1994) 2 SCC 220
[259] [260] (1989) 1 SCC 678
[261] [262] AIR 1968 SC 1402
[263] [264] (1998) 3 SCC 625
[265] [266] (1999) 3 SCC 670
[267] [268] (2004) 10 SCC 682
[269] [270] (1975) 3 SCC 37
[271] [272] (1976) 1 SCC 163
[273] [274] (2003) 8 SCC 93
[275] [276] (2005) 10 SCC 322
[277] [278] (2009) 5 SCC 740
[279] [280] (2009) 6 SCC 498
[281] [282] (2010) 1 SCC 58
[283] [284] (2011) 2 SCC 764
[285] [286] (2012) 4 SCC 107
[287] [288] (2014) 11 SCC 129
[289] [290] (1999) 6 SCC 60
[291] [292] (2001) 9 SCC 50
[293] [294] (2006) 12 SCC 79
[295] [296] (2005) 3 SCC 127
[297] [298] (2014) 4 SCC 69
[299] [300] (2014) 11 SCC 129
[301] [302] (2001) 9 SCC 615
[303] [304] (2011) 13 SCC 706
[305] [306] (2012) 4 SCC 257
[307] [308] (2013) 2 SCC 479
[309] [310] (2008) 13 SCC 767
[311] [312] (2016) 7 SCC 1
[313] [314] (2012) 5 SCC 766
[315] [316] (2013) 7 SCC 725
[317] [318] (2013) 9 SCC 795
[319] [320] (2014) 12 SCC 274
[321] [322] (1991) 3 SCC 471
[323] [324] (1996) 6 SCC 250
[325] [326] (2005) 3 SCC 114
[327] [328] (2005) 3 SCC 793
[329] [330] (2009) 6 SCC 667
[331] [332] (2013) 3 SCC 215
[333] [334] (2015) 1 SCC 67
[335] [336] (2013) 10 SCC 421
[337] [338] (2015) 6 SCC 652
[339] [340] 33 L Ed 2d 346 : 408 US 238 (1972)
[341] [342] (2011) 12 SCC 56
[343] [344] (2010) 9 SCC 567
[345] [346] (2011) 2 SCC 490
[347] [348] Ibid
[349] [350] (2011) 5 SCC 317
[351] [352] (2011) 7 SCC 125s
[353] [354] (1994) 3 SCC 381
[355] [356] (2008) 11 SCC 113
[357] [358] (2002) 5 SCC 234
[359] [360] (2012) 4 SCC 37
[361] [362] (1998) 2 SCC 372
[363] [364] (2002) 1 SCC 622
[365] [366] (2015) 1 SCC 253
[367] [368] (2013) 7 SCC 77