A government-run online education application creeping into your personal information can surely turn out to be one of the worst pet peeves about the obsession with digital education. After several concerning reports about the alleged exposure of students’ data on the Indian government-owned DIKSHA online education platform, the autonomous body NCERT, which is managing the platform, has finally decided to heed the cries of cybersecurity researchers.

MediaNama nudged the NCERT, which was mum until now, to tell us about their plans to tackle this issue and say something about the allegations leveled against the platform. Interestingly, it worked, and, as usual, the NCERT responded with denials and justifications.

Not so much in the works to fix the damage already done, but a review of the situation is what the government is up for. While the will to address the issue is being indicated, it is worth checking what’s being refuted and accepted by the body checking DIKSHA’s operations. [ Read , 3.5 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

? Your Tech Policy Agenda

E-COMMERCE

Eyes on the prize: While Amazon joining ONDC sounds like a win, don’t let it divert you from what really matters. What would be great is if 1) Amazon brought its shopping arm to ONDC, not just its logistics and software suite, and 2) ONDC focused on improving consumer awareness and demand rather than increasing the number of sellers and logistics providers. Tick these two off and we can call for a celebration. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Uber gunning for EV rides: Days after the two-wheeler controversy, Uber is asking the Delhi government to work on Electric Vehicle regulations. The company laid on thick about the importance of bike taxis and the dependency of drivers on this ‘sole’ means of livelihood. But is that enough to convince the transport department? [ Read ?, 1.5 minutes ]

CRYPTOCURRENCY

India’s G20 bet for crypto: India has wasted no time in calling for a coordinated approach to regulate crypto assets across the globe at the G20 meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors. The country has asked the IMF and FSB to prepare a technical paper that will guide policy-making among countries. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

DIGITAL PAYMENTS/FINTECH AND LENDING

Sorry can’t help you: That was Google’s response to Tamil Nadu police when the latter asked for information regarding a digital lending app that was blackmailing users. The company asked the police to instead ask the Irish government for help. Such instances of non-compliance is what prompts the Indian government to curb predatory loan apps in other ways that could cause collateral damage to legitimate players in the industry. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Welcome to Chula Vista, where police drones respond to 911 calls [ Read ] (Patrick Sisson/ MIT Technology Review)

Elon Musk’s Twitter Lays Off Top Lieutenant in Charge of Twitter Blue [ Read ] ( Erin Woo and Kevin McLaughlin/ The Information)

AI-generated fiction is flooding literary magazines — but not fooling anyone [ Read ] (Mia Sato/ The Verge)

Security researchers warn of a new class of Apple bugs [ Read ] (Carly Page, Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai/ Tech Crunch)

Some companies are already replacing workers with ChatGPT, despite warnings it shouldn’t be relied on for ‘anything important’ [ Read ] (Trey Williams/ Fortune)

Indian fintech CRED adds buy now, pay later and tap to pay offerings [ Read ] (Manish Singh/ Tech Crunch)

Microsoft unveils suite of cloud tools for telecom firms [ Read ] (Supantha Mukherjee and Martin Coulter/ Reuters)

Australia plans to reform cyber security rules, set up agency [ Read ] (Renju Jose/ Reuters)

Don’t Call It ‘Crypto’: How Some Blockchain and NFT Projects are Rebranding [ Read ] (Stephen Graves/ Decrypt)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event