Aggrieved by the order dated 27/03/2023 passed by the learned
Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)- National Faceless Appeal Centre
(NFAC), Delhi ("Ld. CIT(A)"), in the case of Rudra Industries ("the assessee")
for the assessment year 2015-16, assessee preferred this appeal. 2. Briefly stated relevant facts are that the assessee is a partnership
firm engaged in the business of rice mill. It filed the return of income for
the assessment year 2015-16 on 10/10/2015, declaring an income of ITA No. 249/Hyd/2023 Rs. 5,66,910/-. During the course of scrutiny, learned Assessing Officer
noticed from the financial statements that the assessee claimed Rs.
93,70,450/- as expenditure towards VAT and Rs. 6,58,520/- as expenses
towards CST, totaling to Rs. 1,00,28,970/- in its Profit and Loss Account
(P&L Account). To verify the correctness of the claim of the VAT and CST,
learned Assessing Officer wrote to the CTO, Bodhan and got a reply that a
criminal case was filed regarding some fake challans which were under
investigation by the state CID and that the VAT authorities are calling
information from the dealers to verify the genuineness of the challans
paid. Assessee also failed to produce the challan/proof of payment of VAT
and the CST, stating that in the circumstances, such production is beyond
the control of the assessee. Learned Assessing Officer addressed their
letter to the CTO, Bodhan, calling for the details of the payments made by
the assessee towards VAT and CST, but received a reply stating that the
challan payments by the assessee were only to the tune of Rs. 22,65,822/-
towards VAT, Rs. 1,14,935/- towards CST totaling to Rs. 23,80,757/- in
aggregate. In the circumstances, learned Assessing Officer added the
difference of Rs. 84,38,910/- to the income of the assessee and
determined the total income at Rs. 91,20,430/-. 3. Aggrieved by such an action of the learned Assessing Officer,
assessee preferred appeal and had taken the plea that the assessee
produced all the relevant evidence to show that the assessee paid the VAT
and CST payments in the year and submitted ledger copy of VAT and CST
payments, ledger copy of VAT payment receipt, monthly returns of VAT
and CST payment, challan copies of VAT and CST payment etc., and when
the assessee produced all such information and all the expenditure is Page 2 of 7 ITA No. 249/Hyd/2023 wholly for the purpose of business, relief cannot be denied to the assessee
merely because the CTO did not confirm the genuineness of the VAT and
CST payments. Apart from this, the assessee took another plea that the
tax consultant deeply frauded the assessee by breaching VATIS portal and
preparing bogus challans driven by the greed to unduly enrich himself,
which the assessee is unaware of. The further plea of the assessee on this
aspect is that an FIR was lodged with police against the tax consultant and
evidence to that fact is furnished to the state CID also. On this score also,
the assessee pleaded before the learned CIT(A) that since it paid the
amount to the VAT consultant, who misappropriated the same, assessee
is entitled to claim the loss arising out of the misappropriation by the
agent. 4. Learned CIT(A) considered all these aspects and recorded that the
assessee filed the copies of the VAT returns and copies of the challan along
with copy of FIR and CID investigation report. But since the issue relates
to a scam or criminal breach of trust, forgery and criminal conspiracy with
the connivance of the Commercial Tax Office, Bodhan and the CID
highlighted all these facts, still the fact remains that the Government
Treasury received only a sum of Rs. 23,80,757/-, the assessee is entitled to
claim the deduction of only such amount and not the entire Rs.
1,00,28,970/- and, therefore, the learned Assessing Officer rightly
disallowed the balance of Rs. 84,38,910/-. 5. Assessee is therefore, before us in this appeal contending that the
authorities below failed to consider the evidence produced by the
assessee in support of its contention that the assessee made the entire
payment towards VAT and CST and as a matter of fact, the assessee filed Page 3 of 7 ITA No. 249/Hyd/2023 cases against the tax consultant and it is proved that CID also highlighted
this fact shows that the assessee suffered due to the misappropriation by
the agent, which is an allowable deduction. 6. Per contra, learned DR submitted that the assessee is not entitled
to claim the deduction under section 37(1) of the Act in respect of the
amounts said to have been misappropriated by the tax consultants in
connivance with the CTO office in respect of which the inquiry by the CID
is pending. She submitted that the assessee is not entitled to claim to
off-set the misappropriated portion of the money and claim deduction in
the return. 7. We have gone through the record in the light of the submissions
made on either side. It is a fact that out of the total sum of Rs.
1,00,28,970/-, the CTO, Bodhan confirmed a sum of Rs. 23,80,757/- to have
been remitted to the Government exchequer and to that extent, learned
Assessing Officer allowed the deduction. In respect of the balance of
amount of Rs. 84,39,910/-, assessee claims to be a victim of the fraud
committed by the agent and entitled to claim deduction in respect of such
sum also, which the authorities below denied. To establish the fraud,
assessee filed complaint against the tax auditor and produced the copies
of FIR and the CID report before the learned CIT(A). But, the authorities
below refused to grant any relief under section 37(1) of the Act. 8. On this aspect, in the case of Badridas Daga vs. CIT [1958] 34 ITR 10,
the Hon'ble Apex Court affirmed the view that the loss resulting from
embezzlement by an employee or agent of a business is admissible as a
deduction under section 10(1) of the 1922 Act, corresponding to section Page 4 of 7 ITA No. 249/Hyd/2023 28 of the Act, if it arises out of the carrying on of the business and is
incidental to it. In the case of Associated Banking Corporation of India Ltd.
vs. CIT [1965] 56 ITR 1, the Hon'ble Court held that the loss must be
deemed to have arisen only when the employer comes to know about it
and realizes that the amounts embezzled cannot be recovered. 9. It was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Associated
Banking Corporation of India Ltd. (supra) that it would be wrong to say that
irrespective of other considerations, as soon as an embezzlement of the
employer's funds takes place, whether the employer is aware or not of the
embezzlement, there results a trading loss, and so long as there is a
reasonable prospect of recovery of the embezzlement, trading loss in a
commercial sense cannot be deemed to have resulted. Further in the case
of Hopkin and Williams (Travancore) Ltd. v. CIT (1967) 64 ITR 76 (Ker) it
was held that deduction claimed was an admissible deduction if it was not
possible to recover the loss from the persons responsible for the same. If
the assessee has made the necessary attempts to recover the loss from
the persons concerned and had failed or if the assessee did not make such
attempts, because it was useless to make them in view of the financial
position of the persons concerned, then and then alone the loss could be
allowed. All the factual aspects require consideration by the authorities
below in the light of the decisions reported in the cases of Badridas Daga (supra) Associated Banking Corporation of India Ltd. (supra) and Hopkin
and Williams (Travancore) Ltd (supra). It would, therefore, be in the
interest of justice to set aside the impugned order and restore the issue to
the file of the learned Assessing Officer for verification of the facts in Page 5 of 7 ITA No. 249/Hyd/2023 respect of entitlement of the assessee to claim deduction of the amount
said to have been misappropriated by the VAT consultants. 10. We, therefore, set aside the impugned order and restore the issue
to the file of the learned Assessing Officer for verification of the facts in
respect of entitlement of the assessee to claim deduction of the amount
said to have been misappropriated by the VAT consultants. Grounds are
accordingly treated as allowed for statistical purposes. 11. In the result, appeal of the assessee is treated as allowed for
statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open court on this the 24th day of
November, 2023. 1. M/s. Rudra Industries, C/o. P. Murali & Co., Chartered Accountants,
 6-3-655/2/3, Somajiguda, Hyderabad. 2. Income Tax Officer, Ward-3, Nizamabad. 3. Pr.CIT, 4. DR, ITAT, Hyderabad. 5. GUARD FILE

 TRUE COPY

 ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
 ITAT, HYDERABAD Page 7 of 7