1. The present appeal arises out of a Writ Petition filed by respondent
No.1 seeking a direction to respondent No.3 Director General Civil Aviation
(hereinafter referred to as „DGCA‟) to de-register its Aircraft being
Bombardier Challenger Aircraft 300 bearing Manufacturer‟s Serial No.
20174. By the impugned order, the learned Single Judge allowed the Writ
Petition and directed issuance of a Writ of Mandamus directing DGCA to LPA 226/2013 Page 1 of 13 de-register the Aircraft in issue. The Aircraft Rules 1937 deal with
registration and de-registration of an aircraft. 2. The brief facts of the case are that respondent No.2 herein Peel
Aviation Limited (also known as PAL) is the owner of the Aircraft in
question. The said respondent No.2 entered into a lease agreement with an
Indian company Golden Wings Pvt. Limited (also known as GWPL) on
20.03.2008. On 16.04.2008 respondent No.3 DGCA granted to the said
GWPL a „No Objection Certificate‟ for import of the Aircraft into India.
On 20.04.2008 the Aircraft was imported into India under the category of
Non Scheduled (Passenger) Services and „nil‟ Customs Duty was paid. 3. Under a financing arrangement a loan was extended by respondent
No. 1 to PAL the owner i.e. respondent No.2. On 20.04.2008 GWPL
executed an Irrevocable De-registration Power of Attorney in favour of
respondent No.1. To secure the repayment of the loan, respondent No.2
executed Aircraft Security Agreement and Chattel Mortgage on 05.05.2008.
The instrument of mortgage confers on respondent No. 1 the right to seek
deregistration of the Aircraft in the jurisdiction of the concerned State
Registry. On 07.05.2008, respondent No.1 entered into a loan agreement
with the owner respondent No.2. Pursuant to the loan agreement credit
facility in the sum of US $ 15,885,916/-was agreed to be extended to
respondent no.2-PALThereafter it appears that various lease agreements
were executed between respondent no.2 and the Lessee GWPL. 4. It is the averment of the appellant that in 2010 investigations were
initiated and it was found that the Aircraft was being used for purposes other
than for what it had been imported. The Aircraft was being used by Mr.Lalit
K.Modi almost exclusively for his personal travel and hence investigations
for violation of terms and conditions of import were initiated. During
investigation it was revealed that there was hardly any payment made by
Mr.Lalit K.Modi to the Indian Lessee, GWPL. It appears that the Aircraft
was purchased mainly for the use of Mr. Lalit Modi and the entire process
of procurement, financing and leasing of the Aircraft was carried out under
the instructions of Mr.Modi. The said Aircraft was imported declaring „nil‟
customs duty claiming exemption under the appropriate notification wherein
Aircraft imported by Non-Scheduled Operators for Non-Scheduled Air
Transport Services operations were exempt from duty on fulfilment of
certain conditions. The Lessee GWPL had imported the Aircraft by filing an
Undertaking that they shall use the subject Aircraft for NSOP (Passenger)
services. They violated the said undertaking and no Non-Scheduled
Passenger Service was ever provided by the said Aircraft inasmuch as the
same was used exclusively by Mr.Lalit K.Modi. 5. It is further stated by the appellant that when investigations were
initiated by various government agencies on the IPL scam, the Aircraft in
question was flown out of India on 25.04.2010 and since then has remained
outside India. The Aircraft arrived in United Kingdom in July, 2010 and has
not flown since then. 6. It was in this background that the appellant DRI issued a letter dated LPA 226/2013 Page 3 of 13 10.12.2010 to DGCA/respondent no.3 requesting it not to de-register the
Aircraft till the investigations are complete. On 15.10.2010 respondent no. 2
wrote to respondent No. 3 of the fact of termination of lease related to the
Aircraft. Thereafter on 14.12.2010, DGCA wrote a letter to GWPL/the
lessee pointing out that as an operator no information has been given to
DGCA about termination of the lease agreement nor any request for issuance
of Export C of A and deregistration of the Aircraft. It was also pointed out
that in the circumstances in which this Aircraft is grounded at foreign
Airport is also not known to DGCA. Hence, comments were sought from
the said Lessee GWPL. 7. In response to the above, GWPL wrote back on 21.12.2010 to
respondent No.3 pointing out that the Aircraft had flown out of India on
25.04.2010. It is also accepted that GWPL was under the scanner since
August, 2010 by competent authorities including Income Tax Department,
DRI and Enforcement Directorate. GWPL stated that they have no objection
to the de-registration of the Aircraft. 8. The respondent No.3 on 27.12.2010 replied to GWPL making
following observations:- However, you have not clarified about the circumstances under
 which this aircraft was grounded at foreign station and what is
 the status of the maintenance of the aircraft since then. (ii) The Mortgagee, M/s. Corporate Aircraft Funding Company,
 LLC, Chichago, IIIInois, is also required to submit the No LPA 226/2013 Page 4 of 13 Objection certificate for the De-registration of the above
 mentioned aircraft. (iii) It may also be noted that Directorate of Revenue
 Intelligence, Mumbai Zonal Unit, is investigating the issue of
 evasion of custom duty of the above aircraft. They have
 requested the office not to de-register the aircraft till the
 investigation is completed by them." 9. Further correspondence has taken place between the parties. It appears
that respondent No. 2 defaulted under the loan agreement. Hence on
08.07.2011, respondent No. 1 as per the loan terms terminated the
commitment under the Loan Agreement and also asked PAL to re-deliver
the collateral including the Aircraft to respondent No. 1. On 07.10.2011
counsel for respondent no.1 wrote a letter to respondent no.3 requesting for
deregistration of the Aircraft at the earliest. On 08.10.2011 respondent no.3-
DGCA wrote to the counsel for respondent no.1 pointing out that DRI is
investigating the issue of evasion of Customs Duty on import of the above
Aircraft and that DRI vide a letter dated 10.12.2010 requested DGCA not to
de-register the said Aircraft till completion of the investigation. The
communication dated 08.10.2011 by DGCA states as follows:- 12/2010/11345 dated 10th December 2010 has requested this
 office not to de-register the subject aircraft till the completion
 of the investigation. This office has not received any clearance
 from the investigating agency till date. In view of above your request for deregistration of subject
 aircraft cannot be acceded to without prior clearance from the LPA 226/2013 Page 5 of 13 investigating agency." 10. In view of the above, respondent no. 1 filed the present writ
petition seeking aforenoted Writ of Mandamus. The said writ petition
was allowed vide impugned order dated 14.03.2013. 11. In the light of the above facts it is the contention of the appellant that
the impugned order is erroneous and ignores the powers of the appellant to
ask respondent No.3 not to de-register the Air Craft. Mr.Dubey, learned
counsel appearing for the appellant contends that Respondents no.1 and 2
have deliberately in order to deprive statutory authorities the right to
exercise their powers under Section 110 or 111 of the Customs Act , flown
the Aircraft out of the country in anticipation of the confiscation Orders. It
is contended that the violation of terms and conditions of the exemption of
Customs Duty has led to a evasion of Customs Duty of approximately Rs.19
crores. It is further claimed that it is within the powers of respondent
No.3/DGCA to withhold de-registering of the Aircraft on the ground of
pendency of investigation and proceedings under the Customs Act to
safeguard the Government revenue. It is further stated that merely because
the Aircraft has flown out of India would not be a ground for the appellant
not being able to exercise its powers. Learned counsel for the appellant
further contends that though Union of India is a signatory to the Cape Town
Convention under Form No. 4 of the instrument of accession lodged by India
under the Cape Town Convention, the said lodgement empowers detention
or arrest of an aircraft with the object of recovering amounts owed to the
Government or any internal-governmental organisation or private provider LPA 226/2013 Page 6 of 13 of public services. 12. Mr.Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel for respondent no.1
submits that there are no grounds to interfere in the impugned order. He
submits that the decision taken by DGCA, respondent No. 3 that without
clearance from the investigating agencies the appellant cannot agree for
deregistration of the Aircraft is untenable in law. He relies upon the
provisions of the Cape Town Convention and the Aircraft Protocol to the
Convention to argue that a signatory State is required to de-register an
Aircraft on a request being made by the mortgagee and/or owner of the
Aircraft and that India has acceded to the convention and protocol. He also
relies upon Rule 30(6) (iv), of the Aircraft Rules to argue that DGCA under
the said Rules was obliged to de-register the Aircraft on the request of
respondent No.1. He further submits that at the best it is the case of the
appellant that certain excise dues are payable by the lessor GWPL. There is
no allegation about any infringement of Customs Law or violation by
respondent No.1. The appellant is by all means free to take appropriate
action for recovery of its dues against the lessee GWPL but under the said
guise cannot start taking action against the assets of respondent no.1 . He
states that as the Aircraft has already flown out of India the relevant
department cannot exercise powers under Section 110 or 111 of the Customs
Act and in any case, the DGCA is not concerned with Section 110 or 111 of
the Customs Act . He further contends that the appellant has no powers to
write a communication to DGCA stopping it from de-registering the
Aircraft. 13. Learned senior counsel also argued that though the appellant has
written a communication to DGCA about pending investigation on
10.12.2010 regarding the alleged evasion of Customs Duty by GWPL the
Indian lessee, however, despite a lapse of more than two years, there appears
to have been no progress whatsoever in the investigation being carried out
by the appellant. It is contended that the appellant has not brought on record
any material regarding the alleged evasion of Customs Duty except its letter
dated 10.12.2010 written to DGCA. 14. The short issue here is as to whether the act of respondent No. 3-
DGCA in not de-registering the Aircraft in the given facts is correct. 15. On the issue of the right of respondent No.1 to seek de-registration.
DGCA has in its various communications and in its counter affidavit filed
before this Court has not argued that respondent no.1 is not authorised to
seek deregistration of the Aircraft. The only contention of the counsel for
DGCA was that it has not accorded deregistration to the Aircraft due to the
communication received by them from the appellant regarding the ongoing
investigation. This stand is also borne out from the letter dated 08.10.2011
sent by DGCA. Hence there is no dispute that respondent No. 1 is entitled to
request DGCA to de-register the Aircraft. 16. It is common ground that the powers of the DGCA to carry out
deregistration are contained in Rule 30(6) of the Aircraft Rules, 1937. The
said Rule 30 (6)reads as under: - Rule 30 (6) enables DGCA to exercise its power to de-register the
Aircraft. 17. Now the issue is whether DGCA was bound to follow the
request/direction of the appellant and refuse to permit de-registration till
approval of the appellant. The impugned order comes to a conclusion that
the appellant has no powers under the Customs Act to prevail upon DGCA
to desist from de-registering the Aircraft. Accordingly, the impugned order
issues a Writ of Mandamus directing DGCA to deregister the Aircraft in
issue. 18. In our view the learned counsel for the appellant has not been able to LPA 226/2013 Page 9 of 13 bring to our attention any provisions of law by which it could be said that
DGCA is bound to comply with the request of the appellant. A reading of sections 110 and 111 of the Customs Act on which reliance was placed by
learned counsel for the appellant, would show that there is nothing contained
therein which would oblige DGCA to comply with any instructions issued
by the appellant while dealing with a request for de-registration. We are,
however, not impressed by the argument of learned senior counsel for
respondent no.1 that the powers under Sections 110 and 111 of the Customs
Act cannot be exercised as the Aircraft has flown out of India. None of the
parties have argued as to under what circumstances, the Aircraft has flown
out of India and has been parked abroad in UK since 2010. 19. Hence, we agree with the findings recorded in the impugned order by
the learned Single Judge that the instructions issued by the appellant are not
mandatory and binding upon DGCA. However, in our view the
communication sent by the appellant to DGCA is a request and would be a
factor which DGCA can certainly keep in mind while exercising its powers
as stipulated in Rule 30 of the Aircraft Rules. We are not ready to accept the
contention that irrespective of the conduct or actions of the concerned party
seeking de-registration qua other Government agencies or bodies or
violation of Statutory provisions, DGCA has to ignore the same while
exercising powers of de-registration. Hence the request of the appellant,
though not binding, would be one of the factors DGCA could take into
account while dealing with the request for de-registration. 20. We now come to the action of DGCA on the request for de-
registration by respondent No. 1. The stand of respondent No.3 DGCA is
contained in its communications dated 27.12.2010 and 08.10.2011 and
shows that DGCA has taken a view that the request of respondent No.1 for
de-registration of the Aircraft cannot be acceded to without prior clearance
from the investigating agency. To that extent, the DGCA has gone by the
dictates of the appellant as communicated to it in its letter dated 10.12.2010,
to not allow the request of respondent no.1 and has failed to exercise its
discretion. 21. Rule 30(6) of the Aircraft Rules empowers DGCA to allow de-
registration of an Aircraft in accordance with the relevant provisions. The
said rule for public reasons confers an enabling power. The enabling power
of this kind conferred would be coupled with a duty on DGCA to exercise its
powers, when circumstances so demand. It is a duty which cannot be
shirked or shelved. The communications of DGCA dated 27.12.2010 and
08.10.2011 clearly indicate that DGCA has simply refused to exercise its
powers without giving any cogent or justifiable reasons. It has simply acted
at the behest of the appellant completely ignoring all other facts. DGCA
has a duty to exercise its powers in the circumstances of the case. The act of
DGCA in not exercising the said powers is arbitrary and illegal. 22. Now, we come to the relief. In our view the impugned order
erroneously issues a Writ of Mandamus directing DGCA to de-register the
Aircraft. Normally a Court would not direct a statutory authority to exercise LPA 226/2013 Page 11 of 13 its discretion in a particular manner not expressly required by law.
Reference in this context may be had to the judgment of the Hon‟ble
Supreme Court in the case of U.P.State Road Transport Corporation and
another -vs- Mohd. Ismail and others, (1991) 3 SCC 239 where in
paragraph 12 the Hon‟ble Court held as follows:- 23. Further, in this context reference may also be had to the case of
Union of India and another -vs- Bilash Chand Jain and another, (2009)
16 SCC 601, where the Hon‟ble Supreme Court held that the High Court
would itself not perform the functions of the statutory authority and that the
Court can command the statutory authority to perform its duty by exercising
its duty in accordance with law. 24. In view of the above, we modify the impugned Order of the learned
Single Judge, as set out below. We issue a Writ of Mandamus directing
respondent no.3 DGCA to exercise its enabling power and take a decision on
the request of respondent No.1 for de-registration of the Aircraft, in
accordance with law. Keeping in view the observations made above, the LPA 226/2013 Page 12 of 13 DGCA would take its decision and pass a reasoned order. Respondents no. 1
and 2 are permitted to make written submissions to DGCA within four
weeks from today in support of their application for de-registration. Based
on the said submissions and other material on record, DGCA- respondent
No. 3 shall take a reasoned decision within four weeks thereafter on the
request for de-registration filed by the respondents No. 1 and 2. 25. We may also clarify that irrespective of whatever decision is taken by
DGCA, the appellant-DRI is free to take appropriate steps if so advised, on
the allegations of evasion of custom duty as elaborated before this Court, in
accordance with law. JAYANT NATH, J. CHIEF JUSTICE
MAY 10 , 2013
nt/rb LPA 226/2013 Page 13 of 13