STORY OF PROSECUTION

1.0 Mr. Rajesh Sood was in Merchant Navy. He left the same as
Captain and started business of property dealing. He had a friend namely
Major V.K. Tomar, a retired Army Officer. Major V.K. Tomar was earlier posted CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 1 of 49 in Shilong in 1976-77 where he had come into contact of accused Murari Lal
who was, at that time, in CBI and was posted there. 1.1 Much later, while in Delhi, Captain Rajesh Sood was introduced
to Murari Lal by Major Tomar. They all developed good friendship and started
paying visit to one another. They also started meeting at family-level as well.
One Mr. Dilwali was also part of their such core group. 1.2 Captain Rajesh Sood was residing in Noida, UP. In 1997, a
scam known as 'Noida Land Scam' came to fore in which Captain Rajesh
Sood was also found indicted and Apex Court directed CBI to investigate the
matter. 1.3 Captain Rajesh Sood was very much apprehensive and upset
about said Noida Land Scam case and wanted to wriggle out from said
criminal case. 1.4 Accused Murari Lal was under suspension those days but he
had assured Captain Sood that he was going to win his own case pending
before Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) and thereafter he would join CBI
as DIG. He also told Captain Sood that since he was under suspension, he
was free to do the job of consultancy and offered his services to Captain
Sood. He also frightened Rajesh Sood by apprising him that he could be
arrested by CBI and could face severe torture and humiliation. By portraying
such a gloomy picture, he left no choice for Captain Sood but to accept his
offer of assistance and consultancy. 1.5 Accused Murari Lal revealed that he would charge Rs. 1 lac as
"consultancy charge" for advising the ways & means to be adopted for saving CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 2 of 49 him from CBI and also Rs. 6 lacs, in addition to consultancy charge of Rs. 1
lac, to bribe the concerned CBI officers dealing with Noida Land Scam case.
He assured Captain Rajesh Sood that he would save him by bribing the
concerned CBI officials of Noida Land Scam case and Law Officers of CBI
and he would be using his personal influence on account of his proximity with
them. 1.6 Amount was negotiated and accused Murari Lal reduced said
amount of Rs. 6 lacs to Rs. 4 lacs. 1.7 Major V.K. Tomar and Mr. Dilwali were also in the thick of the
things and knew about the plight of Captain Sood and about the said offer
made by accused Murari Lal. 1.8 Captain Rajesh Sood raised money by taking loan from his
known persons including his brother. A sum of Rs. 5 lacs was paid by Captain
Sood to accused Murari Lal as under:- IO of Noida Land Scam case which fact panicked him but accused Murari Lal
assured him that he was there to look after his quandary and assured that he
would neither be harassed nor arrested. 1.10 IO-H.P. Singh, later on, got transferred and was replaced by Sh. N.S. Rathore, Inspector CBI who called Captain Sood for recording of his
statements twice i.e. on 31.03.1999 and 01.07.1999. 1.11 Gradually, Captain Rajesh Sood started feeling that he had been
duped and cheated by accused Murari Lal as nothing was happening in his
favour in said Noida Land Scam case. He, therefore, asked Murari Lal to
return back his said amount of Rs. 5 lacs. Accused Murari Lal, however,
refused to return the same. Captain Sood then decided to file a case of
cheating against accused Murari Lal and in order to collect evidence against
Murari Lal, he recorded one telephonic conversation which he had with Murari
Lal. 1.12 Such conversation took place in first week of August 1999 which
noticeably indicated that Murari Lal had accepted a sum of Rs. 5 lacs. 1.13 Simultaneously, something else was also happening. 1.14 Though Captain Rajesh Sood had made payment to accused
Murari Lal between April 1998 and July 1998 and though he later on recorded
telephonic conversation in August 1999, CBI was already having a source
information which indicated that Murari Lal was actively indulging in
undesirable activities and, therefore, his telephone no. 5549810 installed at
his residence bearing H. No. 129, Arunodaya Apartment, H-Block, Vikas Puri,
New Delhi and his mobile no. 9810109333 were put under surveillance in
terms of the orders issued by Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. 1.15 Said land-line number remained under surveillance for two
months in terms of order dated 19.02.1999 and said mobile number remained
under surveillance for two months in terms of order dated 24.03.1999. 1.16 Contents of the conversation recorded during such surveillance
revealed that Sh. Murari Lal as well as Sh. R.S. Jamaur, former ALA/CBI and
Sh. Ram Chander, former DSP/CBI were working as middlemen between
different accused persons involved in CBI cases and IOs and other officers of
CBI and that said officers i.e. Murari Lal, R.S. Jamaur and Ram Chander
used to collect money from the concerned accused and were influencing CBI
officers to obtain favour for such concerned accused persons. Such
conversation was recorded by Sh. R.S. Jaggi, DSP/CBI who was posted in
SIU Branch and was keeping watch and tab on the telephones of different
suspected persons at the relevant time. He also transferred such
conversation to cassettes. 1.17 On the basis of reliable information, FIR, in the present case,
was registered on 12.08.1999. Such FIR was directed against accused
Murari Lal, R.S. Jamaur and Ram Chander and Captain Rajesh Sood and as
per the contents of FIR, accused Murari Lal had accepted illegal gratification
of Rs. 5 lacs from Captain Rajesh Sood for inducing the concerned IO of
Noida Land Scam case, to show undue favour to Captain Rajesh Sood in said
Noida Land Scam case. Out of said amount of Rs. 5 lacs, accused Murari Lal
had paid substantial amount to his co-accused Ram Chander as illegal
gratification. Such amount was for the then IO of Noida Land Scam case as
well as for accused Ram Chander himself. So much so, the then one IO of
Noida Land Scam had even accepted illegal gratification to show undue
favour to Captain Rajesh Sood. 1.18 FIR was accordingly registered u/s 120B IPC and u/s 7 / 8 / 9 / 12 of
Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. 1.19 Consequent to FIR, there was comprehensive investigation

1.20 Captain Rajesh Sood was also called and his statement was
recorded. Application was also moved u/s 164 Cr.P.C. for recording of his
confessional statement. He did make confessional statement on 16.10.1999
before Sh. Harish Dudani, the then learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi. 1.21 After such statement, CBI moved another application u/s 306 r/w Section 5(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 for grant of pardon to
Captain Rajesh Sood. Captain Rajesh Sood was eventually granted pardon
vide order dated 21.03.2002 which he accepted unconditionally. 1.22 It will be also worthwhile to mention here that Noida Land Scam
case was being investigated by Sh. Rishi Prakash, DSP and said case
pertained to irregularities committed by Smt. Neera Yadav, IAS, the then
Chairman, Noida and said FIR was covering various instances of
irregularities. Instance related to Captain Rajesh Sood was entrusted to Sh.
H.P. Singh the then DSP. After Sh. H.P. Singh, Sh. N.S. Rathore took up the
investigation. Investigation revealed that Sh. Rathore neither demanded nor
accepted any bribe from anyone. However, his predecessor Sh. H.P. Singh
initially admitted that he had accepted Rs. 85,000/- through accused Ram
Chander for showing favour to Captain Rajesh Sood in Noida Land Scam
case though later on H.P. Singh retracted. 1.23 Pieces of conversation, as recorded in the cassettes prepared
by Sh. R.S. Jaggi and as recorded by Captain Rajesh Sood, were minutely
scrutinized and it was established that accused Murari Lal and Ram Chander
had indulged in criminal conspiracy and had used personal influence, by
corrupt and illegal means, so that Captain Rajesh Sood was shown favour by CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 6 of 49 the concerned IO of CBI in the investigation of Noida Land Scam case.
However, sufficient evidence was not found forthcoming against Sh. R.S.
Jamaur as well as against Sh. H.P. Singh. 1.24 Murari Lal, R.S. Jamaur and Ram Chander had been arrested
on 13.08.1999. However, they did not acquiesce to give their voice samples
and also denied to undergo lie detector test. However, their respective voices
were got identified through other witnesses. Sh. Satya Prakash, Sh. Raj
Kishore and Sh. Bhopal Giri identified the voice of accused Murari Lal. Sh.
Anil Kumar and Sh. Satya Prakash recognized the voice of accused Ram
Chander. Sh. R.S. Jaggi also identified the voices of Murari Lal and Ram
Chander. COGNIZANCE AND CHARGES

2.0 After comprehensive investigation, charge-sheet was filed in the
Court on 02.04.2002 which was directed against accused Murari Lal and Ram
Chander only. 2.1 Cognizance was taken by the Court on 05.12.2002 and both the
accused, namely, Murari Lal and Ram Chander were ordered to be
summoned. 2.2 After compliance of Section 207 Cr.P.C., arguments on charge
were heard and order on charge was passed on 19.07.2003 directing that
both the accused be charged u/s 120B IPC r/w Section 8 & 9 of Prevention of
Corruption Act 1988 and accused Murari Lal was also ordered to be charged
for substantive offences u/s 8 & 9 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988.
2.3 Charges were framed on 02.08.2003. Both the accused CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 7 of 49 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 2.4 It would also be important to mention that accused Ram
Chander died during the trial and proceedings qua him stood abated vide
order dated 19.01.2005. WITNESSES FOR PROSECUTION

3.0 Prosecution was directed to adduce evidence and has examined
fifteen witnesses in support of its case. Witnesses can be classified as under:- PW5 Sh. S.S. Bal, the then learned Special Judge (CBI)
 PW7 Sh. Harish Dudani, the then learned MM (iv) Witnesses related to voice identification
 PW2 DSP R.S. Jaggi
 PW11 HC Raj Kishore CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 8 of 49 PW12 ASI S.P. Sharma (v) Officials related to Noida Land Scam case
 PW13 Sh. M.P. Singh
 PW15 Sh. N.S. Rathore (vi) Other witnesses
 PW10 Sh. D.P. Sharma, Chartered Accountant
 PW14 Sh. Prabodh Kumar, Investigating Officer

 STATEMENT OF ACCUSED & DEFENCE WITNESS

4.0 Statement of accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. in which he
admitted that he knew Major V.K. Tomar but he denied meeting Rajesh Sood
or asking any money from him or rendering any consultancy or any service to
him for helping him out in Noida Land Scam case. He also denied that there
was any conversation between him and Captain Rajesh Sood or for that
matter between him and his co-accused Ram Chander (since expired). He
also claimed that his voice was not there in any of the recorded conversation.
He also denied that he had any conversation with Major V.K. Tomar and
claimed that telephone number 5549810 was not used by him and was not
installed at his residence and that he was not subscriber of such telephone
number. He also denied his ever using mobile number 9810109333. 4.1 In his such statement, he asserted that he was enjoying the best
confidence of all his superiors including Director/CBI till 1998 or so and he
was supervising all the top cases of the country which annoyed few IPS
officers as he had been given preference over them and they engineered a
complaint in 1990 against him pursuant to which he was suspended. Though CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 9 of 49 he was exonerated in the inquiry yet he was not reinstated and, therefore, he
had to approach Central Administrative Tribunal pursuant to which he was
reinstated and transferred to Chennai. He was later on imposed penalty of
compulsory retirement which matter was challenged by him before CAT and
when CBI felt that he was going to win that case and might soon become
DIG, another false case i.e. present case was made against him. 4.2 He examined DW1 Sh. Sunil Kumar Soni, his son-in-law in his
defence in order to show that accused had no connection with land-line
number 5549810. RIVAL CONTENTIONS

5.0 Sh. V. N. Ojha, Ld. SPP for CBI has contended that prosecution
has been able to prove its case beyond shadow of doubt. It has been argued
that complainant Rajesh Sood has fully supported the case of prosecution
and it becomes very much evident and perceptible that accused Murari Lal
had, with wicked intention, depicted a very scary picture about CBI and also
represented that he was in a position to influence the investigating officers of
Noida Land Scam Case and thus virtually extorted a sum of Rs.5 lacs from
complainant Rajesh Sood. Out of this, as agreed between accused Murari Lal
and Rajesh Sood, a sum of Rs. one lac was to be pocketed by Murari Lal as
his consultancy charges and balance amount of Rs.4 lacs was to be paid to
the investigating officers and Law officers associated with Noida Land Scam
Case for showing unjustifiable favour to Rajesh Sood in said Noida Land
Scam Case. 5.1 Sh Ojha has also contended that two other important public
witnesses, who happen to be close friends of accused Murari Lal as well as of
Captain Rajesh Sood, have also clinched the issue in favour of CBI. It has CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 10 of 49 been argued that Sh. Dilwali and Major V. K. Tomar have also fully supported
the prosecution version and there is no reason whatsoever to disbelieve any
of the public witnesses including complainant. He has also argued that
testimony of Captain Rajesh Sood cannot be rejected merely because he had
consented to give bribe and because he had actually parted with a sum of Rs.
5 lacs. According to Ld. SPP, Captain Rajesh Sood was, in fact, in a dilemma
and since he wanted to wriggle out of CBI case, he agreed to the proposal
given by Sh. Murari Lal. However, later on he realized his folly and made
clean breast of his illegal act and, therefore, he was granted pardon. It has
also been argued that even the electronic evidence lends full corroboration to
the prosecution story. 5.2 Sh. Ojha has also argued that when the cassettes were played
before the court, the voice of Sh. Murari Lal was clearly and distinctly
audible and such conversation as well as the transcript thereof clearly
indicate that Sh. Murari Lal had accepted sum of Rs.5 lacs from Captain
Rajesh Sood for exercising his personal influence by corrupt and illegal
means so that Captain Rajesh Sood was shown favour by the concerned IO
of CBI in relation to the investigation of Noida Land Scam Case. It has been
argued that there is no doubt about conversation recorded therein as defence
itself also attempted to rely upon conversation in one of the cassettes. 5.3 Sh. Ojha has further contended that approver can be of three
different types. First type of approver is that who himself is interested in his
matter and deliberately participates in the commission of an offence without
any threat, force or influence and testimony of such approver requires full
corroboration. Second type of approver is a decoy one whose testimony
requires slight corroboration. Third type of approver is one who is forced to
participate in the commission of offence. Such approver is victim of CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 11 of 49 circumstances and his testimony does not require any corroboration though
fact remains that in the present case, prosecution possesses sufficient
corroboration - factual as well as circumstantial. 5.4 It has also been argued by Sh. Ojha that the offence was
complete the moment accused Murari Lal made a demand from Captain Sood
and at that time, Captain Sood was not even standing in the boots of
approver. It has also been claimed that material suggestions have not been
put by the defence to the material witnesses which clearly indicate that
defence has virtually admitted the correctness of the case of prosecution. He
has also relied upon Section 157 of Indian Evidence Act in order to bring
home the guilt of the accused. 5.5 According to Sh. Ojha, version of DW Sunil Soni is vague and
mere denial to the effect that land line no. was not being used by accused
Murari Lal or that cassettes were not containing voice of Murari Lal would
not suffice. Moreover, if Murari Lal was so sure that he had never entered
into any such conversation with anyone, why did he refuse to give his
specimen voice during investigation and, therefore, adverse inference should
be drawn against him. Moreover, accused has not elaborated his defence
and there is no reason of his being falsely implicated without any rhyme or
reason. He has also placed his reliance upon various judgments which I
would advert to at appropriate places. 5.6 Sh. M. P. Singh, Ld. defence counsel has, on the other hand,
refuted all such contentions and has claimed that accused has been falsely
implicated. It has been out-rightly denied that Murari Lal had ever met
Captain Rajesh Sood in connection with any such purpose or that he ever
demanded or received any money from Captain Rajesh Sood. It has also CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 12 of 49 been argued that Captain Rajesh Sood, even otherwise, was a person of
dubious character who was in the habit of bribing judges and testimony of
such person cannot be relied upon at all. 5.7 It has also been argued that even otherwise as per the settled
proposition of law, testimony of any accomplice is not worthy of any credence
and since there is no other corroboration remotely suggesting the
involvement or complicity of accused Murari Lal, accused deserves to be
acquitted right away. 5.8 As regards electronic evidence, Sh. Singh has contended that
such recorded conversation was without any authorization and further that it
did not contain any voice of accused Murari Lal. Sh. Singh has further
contended that during investigation, accused Murari Lal always and fully
cooperated with the investigating agency and at no point of time, he refused
to give his voice sample. According to Sh. Singh, on the contrary, CBI never
demanded voice sample from him. 5.9 Sh. Singh has also contended that during the relevant period,
accused was not residing at 129, Arunodaya Apartment, H Block, Vikaspuri,
New Delhi and rather Sh. Sunil Kumar Soni (son-in-law of accused Murari
Lal) was residing in said house and he was the subscriber of land line phone
no. 5549810 and, therefore, accused Murari Lal cannot be said to be
connected with any call, incoming or outgoing, emanating to and from such
land line number. It has also been denied that Murari Lal owned mobile no.
9810109333. 5.10 Sh. Singh has also asserted that accused Murari Lal has been
falsely implicated due to professional jealousy and he was victimized at every CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 13 of 49 stage and has been, therefore, falsely implicated in the present matter due to
personal vendetta of some IPS officers. 5.11 According to Sh. Singh, even otherwise, accused cannot be
charged simultaneously with section 8 & 9 of Prevention of Corruption Act as
these two penal sections cannot go hand in hand. He has also put a big
question mark over the electronic evidence and manner in which it was
kept preserved. According to him, these cassettes were, even as per the
prosecution witnesses, edited and copied and the primary evidence i. e.
hard disc has not been produced before the court and, therefore, no
reliance can be placed upon such electronic evidence and in view thereof,
the testimony of these witnesses who have attempted to identify voice of
Murari Lal also goes out automatically. 5.12 It has been also argued that for its own fanciful reasons, CBI
did not arrest the accused when interrogated by CBI despite the fact that
his anticipatory bail application had been dismissed by the court of Ld.
Special Judge and CBI officials, in connivance with Captain Rajesh Sood,
have concocted a story. Moreover, alleged offences in question were non
bailable offences and Captain Rajesh Sood was specifically named in the
FIR and despite that he was released on bail by CBI without there being
any order of the court and that too after having, on earlier occasion, strongly
opposed the bail plea of Captain Sood. 5.13 It has also been argued that there is utter chaos as to where
the alleged meetings amongst Captain Sood and his friends took place and
merely because Murari Lal had apprised about the possible consequences
in case Mr. Sood was to be arrested, it would not mean that he had CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 14 of 49 committed any offence. He has also claimed that no reliance can be placed
on the testimony of Mr. Sood and his two friends as they all were hands in
gloves and were acting at the behest of CBI and therefore, there is no
corroboration to the made-up testimony of Rajesh Sood. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE

6.0 I have given my thoughtful consideration to the rival contentions
and carefully scrutinized the testimony on record. 6.1 Let me evaluate the testimony. 6.2 As already noticed above, prosecution is heavily relying upon
the oral testimony of complainant Rajesh Sood as well as upon the
electronic evidence. 6.3 Let me first weigh up the oral testimony. 6.4 PW1 Captain Rajesh Sood has fully supported the case of
prosecution. His testimony indicates that he knew accused Murari Lal since
1990 when he was posted as SP, CBI. He deposed that he came to know
about him through his friend Major V. K. Tomar. Major Tomar was his
neighbour in Noida and Major Tomar and Murari Lal came to know each other
when they both were posted in Shilong in their respective departments. He
also deposed that he visited his residence many a times. He also deposed
that Murari Lal was staying at Sadiq Nagar, New Delhi and he, Murari Lal and
Major Tomar used to meet each other at their houses and common parties. 6.5 PW1 Captain Rajesh Sood further revealed that report of Sh.
Jogender Singh, the then Director, CBI was published in early 1997 and
there was mention of land scam in Noida in which Mr. Neera Yadav IAS
was allegedly held responsible and in such report, his name was also
indicted and Supreme Court ordered that matter be investigated by CBI. He
deposed that thereafter accused Murari Lal contacted him and offered his
services. Murari Lal told him that though he was under suspension by CBI yet
he was free to work as consultant and also told him that his case was
pending with Central Administration Tribunal, New Delhi and he was likely to
be promoted as DIG. Captain Sood deposed that Murari Lal depicted a
very gloomy picture of CBI before him and told him that if he did not spend
the money and did not take his services, he might be arrested, tortured and
may be taken to Dehradoon prison. Since he (Captain Rajesh Sood) was
down mentally as well as physically, he had no option but to accept the
services of Murari Lal. 6.6 According to PW1 Captain Rajesh Sood, Murari Lal demanded
Rs.one lac for advising him to show the ways and means of CBI and also
asked for additional Rs.6 lacs for saving him from harassment, torture and
promised to take his care even if he was taken to Dehradoon prison of CBI.
Such deal was negotiated over a period of 3-4 days and finally the deal was
settled at Rs.5 lacs. This included the sum of Rs.one lac for advice.
According to Sh. Sood, such discussion took place near New Star shop, Khan
Market, New Delhi. He also claimed that Major V. K. Tomar also knew about
such negotiation since he was the common friend and the negotiations were
held in his presence. Similarly Sh. C. P. Dilwali also knew about such
negotiations. Captain Rajesh Sood also deposed that his elder brother
Rakesh Sood also knew about such negotiations. 6.7 Captain Rajesh Sood further deposed that Murari Lal had told
him that he would use the sum of Rs.4 lacs to bribe the investigating officer
and law officers connected with Noida Land Scam Case. His testimony
further indicates that amount was paid as under:- Captain Sood and rests of the payments were made by him while he went
alone to accused Murari Lal. He also deposed that he borrowed a sum of Rs.
1.20 lacs from Sh. Rommel Sood (his nephew), Rs.1.60 lacs from Sh. Lallan
Jha and Rs.40,000/- from his brother Rakesh Sood. He had to borrow such
amount in order to make payments to accused Murari Lal and he deposed
that such amount was paid by him in the expectation that accused Murari Lal
would save him from the harassment and torture of CBI and would help him if
he was to be taken to jail. He deposed that he was conscious of the fact that
he was doing wrong act but he had no option but to accept because of his
compelling circumstances and also because of the assurance and influence
given to him by accused Murari Lal. 6.9 It becomes apparent that as per the oral testimony of
complainant Rajesh Sood, he paid a sum of Rs.5 lacs to accused Murari Lal CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 17 of 49 during April 1998 to July 1998. 6.10 Let me also, for a moment, see as to what Sh. Dilwali and Sh.
Tomar have to say on such score. 6.11 PW3 Sh. Chander Prakash Dilwali has deposed that he knew
Captain Rajesh Sood as well as accused Murari Lal. He also deposed that
there was a land scam in Noida which was being investigated by CBI and
name of Rajesh Sood had also cropped up in that case and they all were
scared. He deposed that in 1998 there was a talk amongst he himself, Major
Tomar, Captain Sood and accused Murari Lal and accused was requested to
help Mr. Sood. Murari Lal then claimed that money had to be spent for the
purpose and the work would be done and such discussion took place in the
house of Mr. Sood. Initially it was said that about Rs.7 lacs would be spent
but after negotiations the amount was settled as Rs.5 lacs. Captain Rajesh
Sood agreed to pay Rs.5 lacs but claimed that he would not be able to pay
the entire amount in one go but would be paying the same in installments.
Mr. Sood also apprised him subsequently that he had paid complete amount
of Rs.5 lacs to Murari Lal which was paid in four installments and he even
asked him to accompany him to Khan Market, CBI office for making
payment of first installment of Rs.one lac upon which he told Rajesh Sood to
take along Major Tomar who had better influence over accused Murari Lal
and, therefore, he himself did not accompany Rajesh Sood. He also
deposed that Captain Rajesh Sood told him subsequently that such payment
of Rs.one lac had also been made to Murari Lal. 6.12 PW3 Sh. Dilwali also deposed that money was demanded back
from Murari Lal by Rajesh Sood as work had not been done. He also claimed CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 18 of 49 that in such connection, Captain Sood talked to Murari Lal on many occasions
on telephone in his presence but Murari Lal did not return back the money to
Captain Rajesh Sood. 6.13 PW4 V. K. Tomar has also claimed before the court that he knew
Murari Lal as well as Captain Rajesh Sood as well as Mr. Dilwali. He also
claimed that they all used to meet occasionally in a friendly gathering. He also
claimed that he knew that Murari Lal was in CBI and that he was under He also deposed that thereafter Captain Sood confirmed that amount of CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 19 of 49 Rs.one lac was handed over to Murari Lal. In his such deposition dated
23.2.2010, he also deposed that there was total deal of Rs.5 lacs between
Murari lal and Captain Sood and Rs.one lac was to be paid as part amount
to set right the enquiry pending against Captain Sood. 6.15 He also narrated that one such meeting had taken place at his
residence and second meeting had taken place at the residence of Rajesh
Sood when it was settled that a sum of Rs.5 lacs was to be paid by Rajesh
Sood and he did admit that he was present in both the said meetings and
accused Murari Lal had agreed that he would pay to CBI officers dealing
with the case of Captain Sood and in one second meeting C. P. Dilwali was
also present. 6.16 So much so, Major Tomar also deposed that even he himself
used to talk to Murari Lal regarding the payments of the settled amount with
Captain Sood. 6.17 I have seen cross examination of Mr. Dilwali and I am of the
considered opinion that defence has not been able to impeach his testimony
in any manner whatsoever. Admittedly, money was not paid by Rajesh Sood
to Murari Lal in his presence but he was in the thick of things and Captain
Sood had told him regarding the payments made by him to Murari Lal. 6.18 There is no dispute about the fact that they all four i. e.
Captain Sood, Murari Lal, Major Tomar and Sh. C. P. Dilwali were friends
and used to meet frequently. No suggestion to the contrary has been put to
Sh. Dilwali and it has not been explained by the defence as to why Sh.
Dilwali, despite being a good friend of accused, would depose against him. 6.19 Similarly, I have not been able to find out anything worth
mentioning appearing in cross examination of Sh. Tomar which may even
remotely indicate that his testimony was not trustworthy. He was grilled
though very little, with respect to first alleged payment of Rs.one lac and he
claimed in his cross examination that he was 15-20 feet away from the place
where accused Murari Lal had received the packet containing money from
Captain Sood. Curiously, there is no suggestion to the effect that no such
payment was received by the accused. Merely because Sh. Tomar was not
in a position to hear conversation which took place between Murari Lal and
Captain Sood at the time when such payment was made would not by itself
mean and indicate that no payment was actually received by accused Murari
Lal more so when no suggestion to that effect has been given to Sh. Tomar.
Curiously, it was also suggested to Rajesh Sood that he had dropped Mr.
Tomar before reaching Khan Market. Does it not mean that accused admits
that Sh. Sood had come that day but was alone? 6.20 Be that as it may, fact remains that Sh. Tomar and Sh. Dilwali
have fully corroborated the version of CBI. 6.21 I need not remind myself that minor variances and
insignificant discrepancies and contradictions are bound to appear in each
and every criminal case. A person is not supposed to have a photogenic
memory. It is not humanly possible to give precise and accurate detail of the
various meetings which took place on various occasions. It really does not
matter if the exact date of meeting is not clear. It does not matter if it's not
clear as to where exactly all such meetings took place - whether in Khan
Market or at the residence of Mr. Sood. It also does not matter whether
Captain Sood made request to Murari Lal to help him out or Murari Lal himself CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 21 of 49 volunteered to salvage him. Any conflicting or opposing version on this score
is, in fact, trivial in nature particularly when witnesses graced the witness box
after substantial time-gap. Case of the prosecution cannot be rejected
because of such inconsequential inconsistencies. Courts are required to
determine the crux of the testimony by scrutinizing the same in a judicious
manner. It needs no discerning eyes to visualize that Sh. Tomar and Sh.
Dilwali have, in no uncertain terms, deposed that Murari Lal had demanded a
sum of Rs.5 lacs from Captain Rajesh Sood and such amount was paid so
that Murari Lal was able to pull out Captain Sood from the mess of Noida
Land Scam Case. Their testimony also portrays that they knew about the
negotiations, about the payment made by Captain Sood and about his plea of
return of the money. In such a situation, even if there is any variance with
respect to place of meeting or participants of such meeting, same will not
cause any adverse impact being superficial in nature. Even if these two
friends, while coming for deposition before the court, were accompanied by
Captain Sood, that fact by itself would not imply that they all had deposed
falsely. Being friends, their coming to court together particularly in the
backdrop of the present case does not look unnatural or outlandish. 6.22 As I have noticed above, amount of Rs. 5 lacs had been paid to
Sh. Murari Lal by July 1998. 6.23 Let me now see as to whether it showed any result or not. 6.24 Sh. Rishi Prakash was the main IO of Noida Land Scam Case.
However, since said CBI case was on a larger magnitude, the relevant part
related to Sh. Sood was being dealt with by Sh. H. P. Singh. Sh. H. P. Singh
was, later, replaced by Sh. N. S. Rathore and one Sh. M. P. Singh also
remained IO of that part of Noida Land Scam Case. 6.25 Sh. Rishi Prakash is not a cited witness of prosecution. 6.26 Sh. H. P. Singh is also neither an accused nor the witness. 6.27 I have carefully gone through the charge sheet and it seems to
me that CBI has chosen to show some mercy, albeit unwarranted and
undesirable, to Sh. H. P. Singh. During investigation Sh. H. P. Singh had
admitted that he had received Rs.85,000/- in November-December, 1998 for
showing favour to Rajesh Sood. Surprisingly when later on Sh. H. P. Singh
was asked to produce such illegally received bribe amount of Rs.85,000/-
and when he was served with notice u/s 91 Cr. P. C., he retracted and
denied blatantly having received any such money from anyone. Thus he
took a complete somersault despite his initial confession. He was not
prosecuted by CBI because according to CBI the investigation could not
reveal any other corroborative fact. Such task should have been rather left to
the court and the manner in which Sh. H. P. Singh has been let off by CBI is
not in good taste. Moreover, CBI should have at least bothered to place on
record the statements made by Sh. H. P. Singh during the examination. His
first confessional statement and his second retracted statement have been
held back for reasons for best known to CBI. Copy of notice u/s 91 Cr. P. C.
has also not been placed on record and it seems to me that some sort of
clemency has been showered upon him. 6.28 Let me now come to the testimony of PW15 Sh. N. S. Rathore. 6.29 PW15 Sh. N. S. Rathore has deposed that he was given part
investigation of Noida Land Scam Case and Sh. M. P. Singh was S. P. at that
time and Sh. Rishi Prakash was the IO of that case. He claimed that H. P.
Singh was from U.P. Police and he was repatriated to U.P. Police and CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 23 of 49 thereafter said case was entrusted to him (Mr. Rathore). He claimed that he
collected all the documents from H. P. Singh but no case diary as such was
handed over to him by H. P. Singh. I take a little pause here. Sh. H. P. Singh
was part IO and being IO, he was supposed to maintain case diary and his
involvement seems quite evident as he did not maintain any case diary and
did not hand over any case diary to his successor. It only indicates that he
had not done the investigation in the fair and transparent manner. 6.30 PW15 inspector Rathore has further deposed that he called
Rajesh Sood several times during the course of investigation and as long as
he remained IO, the investigation remained clean and Captain Rajesh Sood
never ever offered or attempted to offer any bribe to him. He also claimed
that during his tenure as assisting IO of Noida Land Scam Case, he was
once called by Sh. Prabodh Kumar the then SP, ACU-III who played one CD
and when such CD was played he identified voice of Rajesh Sood which
indicated that Rajesh Sood was to give some money to CBI officials
including he himself (Mr. Rathore) and then he told Prabodh Kumar that he
had never demanded any money from Rajesh Sood. Sh. Rathore further
deposed that when Rajesh Sood came to his office in connection of
investigation of Noida Land Scam Case, he confronted him with respect to
such conversation upon which Sh. Sood revealed that Murari Lal had taken
Rs.5 lacs for settling the matter with CBI officials and he immediately took
him to his SP Sh. M. P. Singh where also Sh. Sood reconfirmed said fact. 6.31 PW13 M. P. Singh has also corroborated Sh. Rathore and has
deposed that somewhere in January, 2000, Sh. Rathore had produced
Captain Rajesh Sood before him and he interrogated Sh. Sood who told him
that he had given Rs.5 lacs to Murari Lal for looking after his interest in
said case. 6.32 Ld. defence counsel has contended that such deposition of M. P.
Singh is inadmissible being hearsay in nature. 6.33 However, it certainly is a corroborating fact which cannot be
brushed aside casually. Moreover, a careful perusal of cross examination of
PW13 M. P. Singh and of PW15 N. S. Rathore would reveal that defence has
not been able to shake their testimony. 6.34 Accused Murari Lal was very open and explicit. He demanded
Rs.one lac as consultancy charges and Rs.4 lacs to bribe the concerned IOs
and law officers related to Noida Land Scam Case. 6.35 Undoubtedly, Captain Rajesh Sood should have adopted the
path of righteousness and should not have offered sum of Rs.5 lacs to Murari
Lal. Even if Rajesh Sood was not physically fit and was under the fear of
his being arrested by CBI, he should not have allowed Sh. Murari Lal to
have control over his own sense of wisdom and should not have
succumbed to his pressure and influence. 6.36 Naturally, till July 1998, no electronic gadget was used or
pressed into service by any one. Sh. Sood probably felt that despite shelling
out a sum of Rs.5 lacs to accused Murari Lal, his interest was not being take
care of as he was being called for investigation in said case of Noida Land
Scam Case. He, therefore, started thinking differently. He deposed that
H. P. Singh called him for investigation in March-April, 1999 but his statement
was not recorded that day since H. P. Singh had no time. Thereafter, Sh.
Rathore succeeded him and called him twice and his statement was
recorded. During such period also, Murari Lal kept on assuring Captain CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 25 of 49 Sood that his case was being taken care of but Captain Sood started
feeling that he had been cheated and, therefore, he started asking for return
of his money. Captain Rajesh Sood further deposed that since Murari Lal
did not return his money he planned to initiate a case of cheating against
him and with that purpose he recorded the conversation between himself
and accused Murari Lal in first week of August, 1999 in which Murari Lal
confirmed that he had taken a sum of Rs.5 lacs from him and also
expressed his inability to return the same. 6.37 Captain Rajesh Sood recorded the conversation and
subsequently micro cassette, containing such conversation, was also seized.
Such conversation was also played before the court during the time of
recording of testimony of PW1 Captain Rajesh Sood and such conversation
is as under and Captain Rajesh Sood has identified his voice as well as the
voice of accused Murari Lal:- ELECTRONIC EVIDENCE

7.0 Needless to say that time of court is valuable. It has been
experienced that in such type of cases, sometimes, court has to sacrifice
whole day for hearing entire such conversation recorded on cassette. 7.1 CBI, for totally inexplicable reasons, is not making best use of
the technological tools. Playing of such conventional cassette, virtually now a
stone age tool, requires bringing a cassette player. Biggest drawback of such
cassette player is that one cannot run such cassette from a particular point for
any particular duration. In case of CD or DVD, conversation can be heard
even from a particular fraction of second. It is not so in the case of cassette.
Courts are equipped with computer systems and if instead of transferring the
contents to cassettes, such contents are transferred to CD or DVD, it would
become very easy and convenient for the Court to hear such audio-evidence
with the help of computer. 7.2 This job of transferring the contents can be undertaken while
keeping in mind the stringent and mandatory requirements of law related to
electronic evidence. 7.3 As already noticed, in the instant case, accused had refused to
give the voice sample during investigation. Taking voice sample of an
accused by the police during investigation is not hit by Article 20 (3) of the
Constitution. But whether in the absence of any provision in the Code, can a
Magistrate authorize the investigating agency to record the voice sample of
the person accused of an offence? This issue is still undecided and matter
has recently been referred to Larger Bench of Apex Court in view of the split
decision in the case of Ritesh Sinha Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & anr . 2013(2) SCC 357. In the case of RAKESH BISHT V. CENTRAL BUREAU
OF INVESTIGATION 2007 CRI.L.J. 1530 DELHI, it has been held that
accused cannot be compelled to give his voice sample during investigation. 7.4 Though, accused cannot be compelled to give voice-sample for
want of any legal provision yet fact remains that court would not be unjustified
in drawing adverse inference from refusal made by accused to the request of
investigation and such denial can also be taken as a corroborating piece. Sh.
Singh has contended that CBI never ever asked for any voice sample and,
therefore, only, there is no Memorandum to that effect and no request was
ever made to court on such score. Normally, a Memorandum is drawn when
some action is, in fact, taken. Here, accused never agreed to give sample
and, therefore, there was no real need of preparing a Memorandum to that
effect. Preparation of such Memorandum would not have served any material
purpose. Admittedly, CBI was able to get their voices identified through other
CBI officials. A careful perusal of the record would, however, show that in fact
CBI did bring such fact to the knowledge of the Court. When application
seeking police custody remand of accused persons including Murari Lal
was moved, it was specifically mentioned in the application that accused had
refused to give their specimen voice samples and that they were required
to undergo lie detector test. Such application was considered by the court
and I have seen the order dated 18.08.1999 as well in this regard and the
contents of such application and the order passed by the Ld. Court go on to
show that such aspect was not hidden from the court and was rather
highlighted before the court. 7.5 A contemporaneous tape record of a relevant conversation is a
relevant fact and is admissible under Evidence Act . It is res gestae. In S.
PRATAP SINGH V. STATE OF PUNJAB , AIR 1964 SC 72, Apex Court CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 29 of 49 considered the issue and clearly propounded that tape recorded talks are
admissible in evidence. As regards the evidence recorded on a tape Recorder
or other mechanical process, court is always required to keep following
safeguards in mind:- 7.6 Reference be also made to Ram Singh & Ors vs Col . Ram Singh AIR 1986 SC 3, R. M. Malkani v. State of Maharashtra AIR
1973 SC 157, two most landmark and often-quoted judgments on the subject. 7.7 Thus, as regards such recorded voice, proper identification is
sine qua non and the time and place and accuracy of the recording must be
proved by a competent witness and the voices must be properly identified. It
is also required to be established that such conversation was appropriately
recorded and secured and sealed immediately leaving no chance of
tempering. It is known fact that tape recorded conversation can be erased CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 30 of 49 with ease by subsequent recording and insertion could be superimposed.
Voice of the speaker must be also duly identified by the maker of the record
or by others who recognize his voice. Here, voice of accused has been duly
identified by prosecution witnesses including Captain Sood and Sh. Jaggi. 7.8 There are two sets of electronic evidence in the instance case.
First set consists of recording done by Captain Rajesh Sood himself. It is
contained in micro cassette. Sh. Singh has agitated that that such
conversation is fabricated and also does not contain voice of accused at all.
He has contended there is no explanation as to why such cassette was not
immediately handed over to CBI by Rajesh Sood. To appreciate said fact, it
will be proper to extract relevant questions and answers put to Rajesh Sood
and suggestions thereto. These read as under:- Q Did you tell to CBI on 17.09.1999 or on 20.09.1999 about the recording of
conversation by you on micro cassette? Ans. I do not remember. I perhaps had stated said fact in my statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. on 16.10.1999 when my statement was recorded by learned MM.
Said statement was read over to me and I signed the same as correct. I do
not remember whether in my statement dated 16.10.99, I told learned MM
that I had handed over micro cassette to CBI. It is wrong to suggest that I never revealed about micro cassette to CBI
officials in any of my statements because I had not recorded any
conversation. It is wrong to suggest that therefore, such fact is not mentioned
in my statement. It is wrong to suggest that micro cassette does not contain
any voice of accused Murari Lal. 7.9 I feel that defence has not been able to shake Rajesh Sood on
the point of his recording such conversation. Mere suggestion would not
dislodge the onus in the desired manner. I also cannot be oblivious of the fact
that as a layman, it was not expected from a commoner to take stringent
safeguards while venturing into such task. Captain Sood recorded such
conversation in his self-styled manner and handed over the same later on to
CBI. Merely because the cassette had not been handed over to CBI
immediately, its contents cannot be rejected out-rightly. Captain Sood
admittedly gave that cassette to CBI when he realized his blunder. 7.10 IO has deposed that he had seized one micro cassette Ex P6
(Sony MC 60 Made in Japan) from Rajesh Sood on 6.10.99 vide seizure
memo Ex.PW1/D (D3). He also deposed that such micro cassette was also
played at that time and he had heard the conversation contained therein and
also prepared a transcription thereof upon the identification of voices made by
Rajesh Sood. He also claimed that Rajesh Sood had identified his voice as CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 32 of 49 well as that of accused Murari Lal. Such transcription has been proved as
Ex.PW14/B. After preparing the transcription and sealing the cassette, as per
IO, such cassette was deposited with Malkhana of CBI. 7.11 Second set of electronic evidence came through Mr. Jaggi.
There was already a source information and accordingly, two numbers of
accused were under surveillance. Sh. Jaggi had been recording the
conversation with due approval. He has proved the relevant permission/
sanction and has also identified the voice of accused Murari Lal and Ram
Chander. 7.12 IO also deposed that he had seized 4 audio cassettes of Sony
from Mr. Jaggi and even at that time, all such 4 cassettes were played and he
heard the voices contained therein and transcriptions were prepared thereof.
Court questions were put to IO and these, along with corresponding answers
are as under:- Singh has expressed his astonishment as to how Mr. Jaggi was contacted.
FIR was registered on 12.8.99 and statement of Mr. Jaggi was also recorded
on 12.8.99. IO did not send any notice to Mr. Jaggi and rather as per IO, Mr.
Jaggi himself had come to CBI office. Following question put to IO and
corresponding answer is also worth-extracting:- 5549810 and, therefore, accused Murari Lal cannot be said to be connected
with any call, incoming or outgoing, emanating from and to such land line
number. 7.22 It really does not matter even if Sh. Sunil Soni was registered
subscriber of said landline number. Fact remains that such landline number
was under surveillance and recording depicts voice of none other than Murari
Lal. No recording contains voice of Sunil Soni. Interestingly, there is no
evidence showing that accused Murari Lal was registered subscriber of such
mobile number. 7.23 Undoubtedly, science of voice recognition is not as accurate and
prefect as the science of fingerprinting. It is still developing. But then here,
situation is different as court has the benefit of scrutinizing the primary
evidence i.e. oral evidence. Captain Sood has stood the ground and his
testimony is practically unshaken. Moreover, defence itself has also placed
reliance upon one such same cassette in order to show that Captain Sood
was not a man of good character as he was in the habit of bribing others. In
such a situation, it cannot be heard from defence that electronic evidence, in CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 36 of 49 the present matter, is inadmissible. Defence cannot be permitted to approbate
and reprobate

7.24 Electronic evidence is essentially to be used for corroboration
purpose. It cannot be taken as primary evidence. This court is conscious of
the observations given by Apex Court in the case of Nilesh Dinkar Paradkar
Vs. State of Maharashtra (2011) 4 SCC 143 to the effect that evidence of
voice identification is, at best, suspect, if not, wholly unreliable. Thus, it is
being weighed in the backdrop of primary evidence only. It is being evaluated
in order to purely comprehend whether it lends assurance and credibility to
the version of Captain Sood. And, on careful perusal of transcription of such
conversation and also on the basis of hearing the actual contents of such
cassettes, I do feel that defence cannot dig out any advantage out of these
conversations which apparently support the CBI's version. Voices of accused
have been identified by the witnesses of prosecution and it cannot be said
these witnesses were not in apposition to identify witness or that they have
wrongly identifies such voice. 7.25 Though there is not much force behind the issue of non-
production of hard disk where Mr. Jaggi had stored the primary conversation
yet the manner in which these cassettes were edited, copied and abruptly
seized and the manner in which these were deposited in malkhana leave
much to be desired. Naturally, if there is doubt in electronic evidence, the
version of voice-identifiers, to that extent, pales into insignificance and
inconsequentiality. In the present matter, however, I would go to the extent of
saying that even if I completely disregard the electronic evidence, the
overwhelming oral evidence, in itself, is sufficient to nail down accused Murari
Lal. TESTIMONY OF APPROVER

8.0 An accomplice is a competent witness and though conviction
can lawfully rests upon his uncorroborated testimony, yet the court is entitled
to presume and may indeed, be justified in presuming in the generality of
cases that no reliance can be placed on the evidence of an accomplice
unless the evidence is corroborated in material particulars, which means that
there has to be some independent witness tending to incriminate the
particular accused in the commission of the crime. Thus, the court has to
appreciate the evidence with caution and take a view as to the credibility of
the evidence tendered by an accomplice. 8.1 It is not necessary that there should be an independent
corroboration of every material circumstance in the sense that the
independent evidence in the case, apart from the testimony of the
accomplice, should in itself be sufficient to sustain conviction. All that is
required is that, there must be some additional evidence rendering it probable
that the case of the accomplice is true and it is reasonably safe to act upon it.
Secondly, the evidence on record must reasonably connect or tend to connect
the case with the crime by confirming in some material particular the
testimony of an accomplice. Thirdly, the circumstances involved in the case
must be such as to make it safe to dispense with the necessity of
corroboration, though, such evidence may be merely circumstantial evidence
to show connection of the case with the crime. 8.2 In Prithipal Singh Etc. vs State Of Punjab & Anr. 2012(1)SCC
10, it has been held that the law on the issue can be summarised to the effect
that the deposition of an accomplice in a crime who has not been made an
accused/put to trial, can be relied upon, however, the evidence is required to CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 38 of 49 be considered with care and caution. An accomplice who has not been put on
trial is a competent witness as he deposes in the court after taking oath and
there is no prohibition in any law not to act upon his deposition without
corroboration. 8.3 It is also to be assessed whether at any point of time such
wrong-doer acted under pressure to become an approver. If after serious
thought and due to repentance, he realizes his mistake and his statement is
not borne out of fear but due to his conscience and repentance, same can be
acted upon. Reference be made to Yakub Abdul Razak Memon Vs. State
of Maharashtra, Criminal Appeal No. 1728 of 2007 (DOD 21.03.2013,
Apex Court)

8.4 In Venkatesha Vs. State of Karnataka (Criminal Appeal No.
135 of 2005 decided on January 8, 2013), Apex Court observed as under:- 8.5 Thus, testimony of any approver is always required to be
accepted with great caution as he is an accomplice. He has to be, first of all, a
reliable witness. Then, corroboration is required to be found out. For
corroborative evidence, the court can look at the broad spectrum of the
approver's version and then find out whether there is other evidence to
corroborate and lend assurance to that version. The nature and extent of
such corroboration may vary from case to case. There cannot be any handy
and strait- jacket formula for that. Corroboration need not be in the form of
ocular testimony of witnesses and may even be circumstantial in nature. In
the case in hand, I don't find any reason to discard or reject the testimony of
Captain Sood and also feel that he has been duly corroborated by his two
friends Mr. Tomar and Mr. Dilwali. They have stood the ground. Moreover,
testimony of Mr. Jaggi also lends support to the case of CBI. Even PW
Rathore and PW Singh of Noida Land Scam Case have given helping hand to
the testimony of Mr. Sood. 8.6 On careful perusal of record, I don't find any discrepancy with
respect to procedure adopted by CBI for seeking pardon for Captain Sood.
Captain Sood himself spilled the beans and repented for his mis-deed. He
made clean breast of his act in his confessional statement made before the
court. I have not been able to find out anything which may suggest that his
confessional statement was false and cooked up and as per the tutoring of
CBI. Naturally, once anyone chooses to make confession, he expects mercy CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 40 of 49 and clemency from the justice delivery system. Merely because, Captain
Sood turned approver, it cannot be robotically inferred that he had done so on
the basis of any inducement or false promise. 8.7 I have seen deposition of IO on this score. He has deposed that
after accused Rajesh Sood made statement before CBI, he filed an
application in the court of Special Judge, CBI on 12.10.99 for the purpose of
getting his confessional statement recorded u/s 164 Cr. PC. Such application
has been proved as Mark PW7/A. Ld. Special Judge marked such application
to the court of Ld. CMM who, in turn, marked the same to the court of Sh.
Harish Dudani, Ld. MM for disposal. Ld. MM posted the matter for 16.10.99
for further action. Accused Rajesh Sood, who was on bail at that time,
appeared before the court of Ld. MM and was identified by IO. Ld. MM
recorded his statement in isolation. He further deposed that subsequently, he
moved application dated 22.8.2001(Ex.PW5/A) through SPP for grant of
pardon to Rajesh Sood as he had made a full and voluntary disclosure of the
facts and circumstances. Captain Sood was granted pardon by the court of
Ld. Special Judge which was duly accepted by Captain Rajesh Sood.
Thereafter, Captain Sood was made witness and became approver in the
present case. 8.8 I have also seen the deposition of PW5 Sh. S.S. Bal, the then
learned Special Judge (CBI) and of PW7 Sh. Harish Dudani, the then learned
MM. they both have also deposed on the same lines and defence has failed
to bring out any infirmity to the fore. I have carefully seen the proceedings
recorded u/s 164 Cr. PC by Sh. Harish Dudani, the then Ld. MM who
painstakingly and meticulously ventured into elaborate enquiry and took all
possible safeguards and precautions before recording confessional
statement of Captain Rajesh Sood. Similarly, Sh. S. S. Bal, the then Ld. CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 41 of 49 Special Judge also drew comprehensive memorandum of enquiry before
grant of pardon. Such memorandum of enquiry has been proved as
Ex.PW1/B.

8.9 However, I would hasten to add that since the offences in
question were non-bailable, CBI should not have ventured into usurping the
powers of the court. Captain Sood had applied for anticipatory bail which was
opposed tooth and nail and was dismissed by the court on 24.08.1999.
Thereafter, he was interrogated and came to CBI office 3 or 4 times but he
was not arrested. It was on 06.10.1999 that he was arrested and was
released on bail as well by CBI. Once Captain Sood had been arrested, he
should not have been released on bail by CBI without any order of the court
keeping in mind the nature of offences. It seems that CBI had made up its
mind by then that since Rajesh Sood had confessed his mistake, he be made
approver. However, in such an eventuality as well, CBI should not have acted
in contravention of provisions of law. It could have rather produced him before
the court without arresting and could have got his confessional statement
recorded. However, such omission would not nullify the entire
proceedings though it is expected that CBI would keep such basic
aspect in mind in future. 8.10 According to defence, CBI has manipulated the case in order to
implicate the accused at the behest senior CBI officials as they were annoyed
with Murari Lal who was having litigation with the department on the issue of
his own promotion and the department was not inclined to promote him. I,
however, feel that such theory has only remained on papers and has not been
roved in the desired manner. I also don't think that in order to falsely implicate
accused, CBI would have taken risk of roping in his friends as prime
witnesses. 8.11 Merely because, Captain Sood was never arrested in Noida
Land Scam Case, it cannot be assumed that there was no reason to have felt
scared or that there was no requirement of contacting accused Murari Lal for
helping him out. A news-item appearing in paper by top brass of CBI indicting
Sood as well was, in itself, sufficient to shake him. Any commoner would feel
shiver down the spine in any such situation. Arrest part comes much later and
naturally idea and intention of Mr. Sood was to let that stage not reach at all. CONSPIRACY ANGLE, LEGAL PROVISIONS AND JUDGMENTS CITED
 AT THE BAR

9.0 As far as role of Accused Ram Chander (since deceased) is
concerned, I have not been able to find sufficient incriminating material qua
him. Captain Sood has not whispered even a single word against him. He
never met him either. It will be highly unsafe to infer his complicity merely on
the basis of recorded conversation. Conclusion in a criminal trial cannot be
made on the basis of Inferences and guess work. Moreover, as far as
accused Murari Lal is concerned, he had himself demanded a sum of Rs. 1
lac for himself as consultancy charges besides sum of Rs. 4 lacs for gagging
concerned officials and never disclosed name of accused Ram Chander to
Captain Sood. Though as per CBI, accused Murari Lal had given substantial
money (out of the money paid to him by Captain Sood) to Ram Chander, yet
such fact does not stand proved in the desired manner. Thus the conspiracy
theory does not stand proved. 9.1 It will also be very important to extract section 8 and section 9 of
Prevention of Corruption Act. These read as under:- Section 8 and section 9 can evidently go together. Their spheres may look
overlapping but are still different. Sec 8 talks about agreeing, obtaining or
accepting gratification by corrupt and illegal means whereas sec 9 talks about
use of personal influence. Accused Murari Lal was in CBI and was, therefore,
in a position to exercise his personal influence. It was not that he merely
wanted to exercise personal influence. He also demanded money for self and
for bribing other CBI officials and, therefore, both the penal sections stand
attracted unmistakeably. 9.3 Sh. M. P. Singh, ld. defence counsel has relied upon judgment
cited as Ashish Batham Vs State of Madhya Pradesh AIR 2002 Supreme
Court 3206. I have seen that judgment and the legal proposition is not
disputed and suspicion, however, strong or probable, would not be a
substitute for the legal proof. I have also seen judgment cited as State
Inspector of Police, Vishakhapatnam Vs. Surya Sankarram Karri (2006) 7
Supreme Court Cases 172 and undoubtedly fair investigation is expected
from the concerned investigating agency. However, at the same time, I need
not remind myself that there are catena of judgments to the effect that if the
investigation is found to be defective, such fact by itself cannot become a
ground of acquittal. 9.4 Sh. Singh has further relied upon judgment cited as Rampal
Pathwa Rahidas and Others Vs. State of Maharashtra 1994 Supreme
Court Cases (Cri) 851 and has claimed that testimony of approver is liable
to be discarded in case statement of such approver is found to be CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 45 of 49 exculpatory. There is, again, no doubt about such proposition but fact
remains that the statement made by Captain Sood u/s 164 Cr. PC was
evidently inculpatory in nature and not exculpatory and, therefore, defence
cannot dig out any advantage out of such judgment either. 9.5 Sh. M. P. Singh had contended that even if court comes to the
conclusion that there is corroboration to the version of approver, even then,
accused Murari Lal cannot be convicted because Captain Rajesh Sood was
a person of suspicious character and wicked nature who was in the habit of
bribing judges and no conviction can be based on testimony of such a
witness. 9.6 Sh. Ojha has countered said contention by relying upon Ram
Sarup Charan Singh Vs. State AIR 1967 Delhi 26. I have seen said
judgment and I also subscribe to the view that testimony of any person
cannot be rejected merely on the ground that such person is having shady
or doubtful characteristic. Testimony of every witness needs to be
scrutinized on its own merits and court is not expected to show any bias in
view of the background of any witness. CONCLUSION

10.0 In view of foregoing discussion, it becomes manifestly
perceptible that accused Murari Lal had malafide intention since inception. 10.1 Captain Rajesh Sood was in fact in catch 22 situation as he did
not want to do any illegal act but at the same time, he also wanted to wriggle
out of the clutches of law CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 46 of 49 10.2 What type of friend was accused when he did not even spare his
close pal and demanded money from him? My such remark rings sarcasm
only. By putting across such illegal offer, he dragged Captain Sood in a big
mess and instead made his life much more miserable. 10.3 Accused Murari Lal had served CBI for quite some time and he
was buoyant that he would eventually win his case before Central
Administrative Tribunal which he, in fact, did. He also claimed that he was
free to give consultation even when he was under suspension and depicted
such terrifying and murky picture about CBI that Captain Rajesh Sood was
left with no option but to succumb to his offer. This, certainly, does not mean
that Captain Rajesh Sood was justified in accepting such offer. He also had to
pay price for his misdeed as he became accused in the instant case as well.
Since he candidly confessed his guilt, he was granted pardon. 10.4 Money was ostensibly taken by accused Murari Lal by corrupt
and illegal means and also for exercising his personal influence. It is not very
much clear as to what money actually transferred from accused Murari Lal to
his co accused Ram Chander or for that matter to any of the IO of Noida
Land Scam Case but fact remains that as per the bare language contained
in section 8 & 9 of Prevention of Corruption Act, the offence was complete
the moment accused Murari Lal agreed to accept the money. The
gravamen of the offence is acceptance of or the obtaining or even the attempt
to obtain or agreeing to accept illegal gratification as a motive or reward for
inducing a public servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercising personal
influence. It is not necessary that the person who received the gratification
should have succeeded in inducing the public servant. The receipt of CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 47 of 49 gratification as a motive or reward for the purpose of inducing the public
servant by corrupt or illegal means will complete the offence. Accused was
also having the animus or intent at the time when he received gratification
and his such intention can be easily gathered and inferred from the deposition
on record. In Devan Alias Vasudevan. vs State 1988 Cr.L.J. 1005, it has
been aptly observed that though the person who pays the gratification was, in
a way, an accomplice in the offence but before his evidence is dubbed as
unworthy of credit without corroboration, a pragmatic or realistic approach has
to be made towards such evidence. If the bribe-giver voluntarily goes to the
offender and persuades him to accept the bribe, his position is that of an
undiluted accomplice and it is a rule of prudence to insist on independent
corroboration for such evidence. On the other hand, if the giver of gratification
was persuaded to give it, he actually becomes a victim of persuasion by the
offender. To name him an accomplice and to reject his testimony due to want
of corroboration, would sometimes, be unrealistic and imprudent. The Court
must always bear in mind that insistence on corroboration for the evidence of
accomplice is not on account of any rule of law, but it is a caution of
prudence. The density of the stigma to be attached to a witness as an
accomplice depends upon the degree of his complicity in the offence. It was
also observed that rule which requires corroboration of the evidence of an
accomplice, if it applies at all, applies with less rigor and force in a case of
bribery or receipt of illegal gratification while making reference to Narayana
Prasad v. Emperor AIR 1948 Nagpur 342. 10.5 Here, whereas, fortunately, there is enough corroboration as
well. 10.6 In view of my foregoing discussion, I hereby hold accused
Murari Lal guilty and convict him u/s 8 & 9 of Prevention of Corruption Act. Convict Murari Lal in person with counsel Sh. M.P. Singh. 1 Heard arguments on sentence. 2 Sh. Ojha, learned SPP has prayed for maximum sentence as he
accepted illegal gratification not only for himself but for others and thereby he
was also spreading corruption amongst others. 3 Sh. Singh has, on the other hand, prayed for maximum leniency.
It has been contended by learned defence counsel that convict is an aged
man in his seventies and suffering from various ailments. His wife is also not
keeping up good health. Sh. Singh has also reiterated that convict is rather a
victim and has been implicated falsely at the behest of some IPS officers who
were jealous of him. 4 As per often used cliché, corruption has become a menace
which is, like termite, eating fabric of our nation. 5 CBI is a premier agency primarily entrusted with the herculean
task of catching the corrupt persons and to bring them to the books. Fair and
just trial prolongs the age of the case but then stigma of conviction under Prevention of Corruption Act warrants that such accused must have
unbounded opportunity to put forth his stance and defence though eventually
in hindsight, Justice delivery system can be equated with ''Mills of God'' which CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 50 of 49 grind slowly but grind exceedingly small. 6 Chaotic situation emerges out when those shouldered with the
responsibility to expose corrupt themselves become so. Accused Murari Lal
was holding responsible position in CBI. He had a long career in CBI. He
reportedly joined CBI in 1972 as DSP. It was only in the fag end of his service
that his dubious act came to fore. Whether his preceding period remained
unblemished is anybody's guess? Conversation recorded in the present case
coupled with oral testimony portray a very gloomy and bleak image about
''back-door-exoneration-against-consideration''. People are being served with
virtual acquittal in platter this manner. By bribing and gagging the mouths of
concerned law officers of CBI and investigating officers - with money or by
exercising personal influence- accused are being given clean chit. In such a
sorry state, courts cannot be expected to do anything really substantial. 7 Fortunately, the bribe giver mustered courage and chose to side
with truth, finally. Undoubtedly, had his work been done in time, who knows,
even this case would not have even seen the light of the day? 8 Much though needs to be done, sooner than later, to apply
technological tools in proper and lawful manner so that evidence, so
collected, is able to withstand judicial scrutiny and is not discarded being
gathered in contravention of provisions of law. There is no harm in recording
conversation. I would rather say that there should not be any real requirement
of seeking any permission from any authority to put any contact number of
any such public servant under surveillance. Given the nature of job, any
public servant holding responsible position has to make some sacrifices and
since it's expected that he would do his job with honesty and integrity, even if
such recording is done without any formal permission, it should have equal CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 51 of 49 persuasive value. Such public servant cannot be heard complaining that his
personal liberty has been breached. Rather, his holding public office has in-
built and implied consent on such score. Only, it's to be ensured that such
recording(s) are properly maintained and everyone concerned is informed
about such recording promptly and no one tries to misuse those. 9 Coming to the case in hand, convict Murari Lal accepted
gratification from Captain Sood so that undue favour was shown to him in
Noida Land Scam Case. He was in CBI for quite some time and must have
thought that he could have helped Captain Sood by illegal or corrupt means
or by exercising his own personal influence. He did accept Rs. 5 lacs. It really
does not matter whether he actually tried to influence anyone or not or gave
any bribe to anyone or not as the offences were complete the moment he
agreed to accept illegal gratification from Captain Sood. 10 Court is duty bound to assess the aggravating and mitigating
circumstances while finalizing the sentence. Old age itself cannot be claimed
as a mitigating circumstance as even when the offence had been committted
by the convict, he was on the verge of superannuation. Minimum sentence
under the offences in question is six months and maximum is five years
besides fine. 11 Keeping in mind all the factors, convict is sentenced as under:- 12 Both the sentences would, however, run concurrently. 13 Needless to say that convict would be entitled to benefit of
Section 428 Cr.P.C. 14 Convict be sent to jail under appropriate warrants to serve the
sentence. 15 A copy of judgment and order on sentence be supplied to
convict free of cost. 16 Ahlmad is directed to paginate and book-mark for digitization
purpose. 17 File be consigned to Record Room. Announced in the open Court
on this 15th day of July, 2013
 (MANOJ JAIN)
 Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI)
 South Distt: Saket Courts: New Delhi CC No. 03/2012 CBI Vs. Murari Lal Page 53 of 49