SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: AITAH for telling a girl that she is stupid and irresponsible to get played by a guy with major red flags?
DATE: 2023-08-27
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/162jh53/aitah_for_telling_a_girl_that_she_is_stupid_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

So there's this girl who's a friend of a friend. My friend wanted my opinion on what happened to her friend.

So this girl was attracted to a punk asshole senior in her college. The sole reason of attraction was that the guy literally a bad guy. She approached him on social media. Low and behold they started to date within 2 days. This is where I knew the story wasn't gonna be good. The very next week the guy gave her two choices. Either sleep with him or get dumped. Then she said she'll think about it. I was so shocked that this dumb girl didn't see the big bold red flag and actually gave a thought to his "proposal". Again, low and behold she said yes to sleeping with him. I was shocked out of my mind on how such a dumb girl exist. Within 2 hours of her saying yes, they did the deed with her consent. Now after the deed, the girl asks him to become her boyfriend and commit to her but that guy said he'll think about it. At this point I pretty much knew where this was going. He started demanding physical relationship every day and she'd sneak out of hostel to go with him. This went on for two semesters and the guy still didn't commit to her. Recently she started getting less response from him and him basically ghosting her. Then she got to know that he's actually engaged and realised that she got pumped and dumped. He's gonna graduate in a few weeks too. Now she's playing a victim card and isn't going to file a case because the whole time she gave her consent to all the things and on top of that he never promised to marry her or commit to her.

Now comes my opinion.
From the start she didn't see the red flags. She didn't leave when he gave her those two options. She didn't get commitment from him even after giving herself to him. This shows that she is irresponsible. Then she continues to sleep with him thinking he'd commit to her but in reality he never said he's going to. This again shows her incompetence to see what's happening with her. Then get ghosted after getting pumped and dumped. Plays the victim card saying he played with her and all men are same. This shows lack of accountability in her for her actions and blames it on every man on earth. She refuses to see that she's the one who opened her legs. She's the one who didn't see red flags. She's the one who let herself get played by the guy. Why do women sleep with men without getting a ring on their finger? Why open your legs for incompetent guys who are never gonna commit to you? Why open your legs for scumbags and later play the victim card saying that he's a dead beat? Why tolerate a guy for a whole year who you know very well that he is using you?
I then told this girl that she's the one to blame too because you she gave her consent and she knew what she was getting into and now she's learnt a life lesson that she'll never forget.
Both of them got so mad at me for trying to held her accountable too. I'm not saying that the guy's not at the fault but she's at the fault as well. Both got up mad and stormed off telling me that you all men the same and the patriarchy is at fault. This wasn't even about patriarchy and i laughed a little as they stormed off.

I know I'm not the asshole here but still would like to know you guys' opinion on this as well.