1. Supplementary affidavit filed today is taken on record. 2. Heard Sri Kartikey Singh, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Ramesh Kumar, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the record. 3. The instant bail application has been filed with a prayer to release the applicant on bail in Case Crime No.179 of 2024, under Sections-319(2), 318(4), 316(2), 61(2), 338, 336(3), 340(2) BNS, Police Station-Mant, District-Mathura, during the pendency of the trial. 4. Contention of learned counsel for the applicant is that as per the allegation in the FIR, co-accused persuaded the first informant to purchase the land of one Suresh Kumar Bhati. After defrauding the first informant, they obtained the cheque for consideration amount and deposited the same in the account of Suresh Kumar Bhati. Subsequently, it was found that actually Suresh Kumar Bhati is the present applicant i.e. Prempal. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant has submitted that as per the prosecution case, he was not involved in any of the transaction or persuading the first informant to purchase his land and the account was opened by Mahesh and other co-accused persons by misusing the aadhaar card of the applicant. It is further submitted that charge sheet has been filed in the present case, therefore, there is no requirement of custodial interrogation. It is further submitted that the applicant has explained the criminal history in the accompanying affidavit as well as in the supplementary affidavit. The applicant is a law abiding citizen and he is languishing in jail since 17.09.2024. In case, he is granted bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail and would cooperate in the trial proceedings. 6. Learned A.G.A. has opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the aforesaid facts. 7. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case, submissions of learned counsel for the parties and keeping in view the nature of offence, evidence, complicity of accused and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I am of the opinion that the applicant is entitled to be enlarged on bail. 8. Let the applicant- Prempal involved in the aforementioned crime be released on bail, on his furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount, to the satisfaction of the court concerned, with the following conditions:- 9. In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. 10. Identity, status and residence proof of the applicant and sureties be verified by the court concerned before the bonds are accepted. Order Date :- 10.7.2025
 
S.Chaurasia