We missed this earlier: The Delhi High Court has granted L’Oréal Paris a permanent injunction restraining “ www.lorealglobal.in” from copying L’Oréal Paris’ trademark. L’Oréal approached the court in 2021, stating that an unknown entity operating the domain name had contacted Nicholas Healthcare Limited to purchase products worth ₹1 crore. When Nicholas Healthcare asked this fake entity for documents, the entity sent a forged GST certificate, a Certificate of Incorporation, and a forged canceled cheque in the name of L’Oréal’s Indian subsidiary—L’Oréal India Pvt Ltd. It was only when Nicholas Healthcare employees reached out to L’Oréal that the company discovered the entity was impersonating a L’Oréal India employee.

L’Oréal claims that these unknown entities are committing fraud and misleading prospective consumers, business entities, and the general public by pretending to act on L’Oréal’s behalf. The court had already granted L’Oréal an interim injunction in 2021, restraining the entity running the Loreal Global site from using any email or website containing L’Oréal’s trademark.

The court observed that the website “lorealglobal.in” replicated the essential features of L’Oréal’s official site, including the company’s logo and website layout. “The similarity between the two websites is so striking that an average consumer with imperfect recollection would be unable to distinguish between the two,” the Delhi High Court stated.

The court has directed the National Internet Exchange of India (NIXI) to not permit any domain name or website under the “.co.in” and “.in” extensions from using the trademark “L’Oréal.” Additionally, the court imposed a Rs 1 lakh fine on the entity infringing L’Oréal’s trademark, mandating that it be paid within eight weeks.

This is yet another case in a long line of trademark infringement disputes that the Delhi High Court has dealt with in the recent past. For instance, in December last year, the court restrained websites copying RummyCircle’s design and content from infringing on its trademark. Then, in February this year , the court restrained illegal offshore betting companies from infringing on the trademark of Moonshine Technology Private Limited, the parent company of games like PokerBaazi.

What remains unclear, however, is how effective the court’s permanent injunctions are in preventing trademark infringement. How does a court order prevent more bad actors from cropping up and copying a business’s trademark and products?

“There has indeed been a noticeable increase in trade mark infringement cases being filed by companies in recent years. This trend is largely driven by increased brand awareness and a more proactive approach from brand owners in protecting their intellectual property,” Bharadwaj Jaishankar, Partner, Induslaw said in a comment shared with MediaNama. On a similar note, Siddharth Mahajan, Partner, Athena Legal mentioned that startups today are aware that if they do not proactively protect their brand, it could impact their potential fund raising efforts, citing this as one of the reasons why there is increasing attention to trademark protection.

Both Jaishankar and Mahajan said that permanent injunctions are effective tools in preventing future infringement. “From a broader brand protection perspective, they can also create a deterrent effect, discouraging other potential infringers,” Jaishankar explained. Discussing the effectiveness of injunctions, Sidhant Goel, parter, Sim and San law firm, mentioned that typically in trademark cases, companies make an unidentified person “Ashok Kumar” a party in the lawsuit. “Ashok Kumar is an unidentified person who has made a party so that if in case the defendant were to impersonate as another entity or as another body, the injunction order would be then extended even to that third party,” he explained.

Jaishankar explained that unfortunately, many companies continue to face trademark infringement from websites impersonating their brands even after taking legal action. “With the evolved digital landscape, it is incredibly easy for counterfeiters to quickly set up new websites with similar domain names or create fake brand pages to deceive consumers. These websites can be launched and taken down within moments, making it a constantly moving target for brand owners,” he said. He added that executing court orders particularly across borders, can be complex and time-consuming. As a result of this,  companies often find themselves in a continuous battle to protect their brand in an ever-evolving online environment.

Goel mentioned that the solution to this issue is a dynamic injunction, explaining that the Delhi High Court first issued such an injunction in the UTV case in 2019 . For context, dymanic injunctions prevent companies from going through the process of getting a court order to issue blocking orders to telcos. Instead, they can approach the Joint Registrar of the Delhi High Court (an administrative position), to extend an injunction order already granted against a website, against a similar ‘mirror/redirect/alphanumeric’ websites.

Note: The story was updated on April 2, 2025 at 6:30 PM to add comments from lawyers.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event