Arresting Officer

 (Signature with Seal) 31 In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors. -Vs. -Union of India and Others

reported in 2022 SCC OnLine SC 929, the following paragraphs are relied upon

for the purpose of the present case which are set out below: The safeguards to be adhered to by the jurisdictional police officer
 before effecting arrest as stipulated in the 1973 Code, are certainly
 not comparable. Suffice it to observe that this power has been given
 to the high-ranking officials with further conditions to ensure that
 there is objectivity and their own accountability in resorting to arrest
 of a person even before a formal complaint is filed under Section
 44(1)(b) of the 2002 Act. Investing of power in the high-ranking
 officials in this regard has stood the test of reasonableness
 in Premium Granites, wherein the Court restated the position that
 requirement of giving reasons for exercise of power by itself excludes
 chances of arbitrariness. Further, in Sukhwinder Pal Bipan Kumar,
 the Court restated the position that where the discretion to apply the
 provisions of a particular statute is left with the Government or one
 of the highest officers, it will be presumed that the discretion vested 32 in such highest authority will not be abused. Additionally, the
Central Government has framed Rules under Section 73 in 2005,
regarding the forms and the manner of forwarding a copy of order of
arrest of a person along with the material to the Adjudicating
Authority and the period of its retention. In yet another decision
in Ahmed Noormohmed Bhatti, this Court opined that the provision
cannot be held to be unreasonable or arbitrary and, therefore,
unconstitutional merely because the authority vested with the power
may abuse his authority. (Also see Manzoor Ali Khan). 326. Considering the above, we have no hesitation in upholding the
validity of Section 19 of the 2002 Act. We reject the grounds pressed
into service to declare Section 19 of the 2002 Act as unconstitutional.
On the other hand, we hold that such a provision has reasonable
nexus with the purposes and objects sought to be achieved by the
2002 Act of prevention of money-laundering and confiscation of
proceeds of crime involved in money-laundering, including to
prosecute persons involved in the process or activity connected with
the proceeds of crime so as to ensure that the proceeds of crime are
not dealt with in any manner which may result in frustrating any
proceedings relating to confiscation thereof. 400. It is important to note that the twin conditions provided under Section 45 of the 2002 Act, though restrict the right of the accused to
grant of bail, but it cannot be said that the conditions provided
under Section 45 impose absolute restraint on the grant of bail. The
discretion vests in the Court which is not arbitrary or irrational but
judicial, guided by the principles of law as provided under Section
45 of the 2002 Act. While dealing with a similar provision
prescribing twin conditions in MCOCA, this Court in Ranjitsing
Brahmajeetsing Sharma, held as under: (emphasis supplied) 401. We are in agreement with the observation made by the Court
 in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma. The Court while dealing with
 the application for grant of bail need not delve deep into the merits of
 the case and only a view of the Court based on available material on
 record is required. The Court will not weigh the evidence to find the
 guilt of the accused which is, of course, the work of Trial Court. The
 Court is only required to place its view based on probability on the
 basis of reasonable material collected during investigation and the
 said view will not be taken into consideration by the Trial Court in
 recording its finding of the guilt or acquittal during trial which is
 based on the evidence adduced during the trial. As explained by this
 Court in Nimmagadda Prasad, the words used in Section 45 of the
 2002 Act are "reasonable grounds for believing" which means the
 Court has to see only if there is a genuine case against the accused
 and the prosecution is not required to prove the charge beyond
 reasonable doubt. Relying on the observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

aforesaid judgment it can be stated that the Enforcement Directorate exercised 35 its discretion and authority under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 to arrest a

person wherein they found higher standard of evidence relating to proceeds of

crime which were available with them and the custodial detention of the

accused wasthought to be necessary in the background of the object and

purpose of the PMLA, 2002. Needless to state that such powers are vested with

the superior officers of the Enforcement Directorate and there are rigors on the

exercise of the powers which have been thrusted on them, so thatthe

authorised officers, arresting officer are to comply with the rules framed under Section 73 of the Act, which warrants the forwarding of a copy of the warrant of

arrest of the person along with material to the adjudicating authority and the

purpose of detention. Thus, the applicability of the twin conditions under Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002 for granting bail is to be satisfied in case of

release of such an accused. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Ors.(supra) the Hon'ble Apex Court

was pleased to emphasise on the issue relating to a delicate balance between

the merits of appreciation while deciding a case at the stage of acquittal or

conviction and an application for bail. For this purpose the phrase "reasonable

grounds for believing" was also emphasized in relation to the material collected

by the prosecution at the time of considering the bail application. Be that as it may, there is difference with regard to releasing a person on

bail who has appeared in response to summons and a person who was arrested

in course of investigationunder the PMLA, 2002 by the Investigating Authorities

invoking their powers under Section 19 of the Act. The accused nos. 2 to 11 36 appeared before the learned Special Court pursuant to the summons which

were issued to them as such taking into account the provisions of Section 65 of

the PMLA, 2002 it can be held that if the learned Special Court intended to

exercise its option under Section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure the

same cannot be interfered with until and unless supervening circumstances

are brought on record. In view of the aforesaid the order dated 04.04.2022 wherein the learned

Special Court granted bail to accused nos.2 to 11 and against whom, this

Court was pleased to issue show causeby its order dated 28.07.2022is not

interfered with. The order of bail dated 04.04.2022 granted by the learned

Special Court to accused nos. 2 to 11 is hereby affirmed. However, so far as the accused Debabrata Halder is concerned the

learned Special Court by its order dated 12.04.2022 was pleased to release the

said accused on bail which calls for interference in view of the reasons so

assigned by the learned Special Court which is quoted below: In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy &Ors. -Vs. - CBI reported in (2013) 7 SCC

439 it has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that economic offences

constitute a class apart and need to be visited with different approach in the

matter of bail. Paragraph 34 and 35 of the said judgment is relevant for the

purpose of consideration of this case, as such the same is set out below: Ordinarily, the considerations which weigh with a Court in granting bail

in non-bailable offences are the nature and seriousness of the offences; the

character of the evidence; circumstances which are peculiar to the accused; a

reasonable possibility of the presence of the accused not being secured at the

trial; reasonable apprehension of witness being tampered with; the larger 38 interest of the public or the State and other similar factors which may be

relevant in the facts and circumstances of the case. In State of Gujarat -Vs. - Sandip Omprakash Gupta reported in 2022

SCC OnLine SC 1727 the Hon'ble Supreme Court while dealing with the

provisions of bail under Section 20(4) of the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and

Organised Crime Act, 2015 was pleased to observe as follows: The order of the learnedJudge, Special (CBI) Court No.1, Bichar Bhawan,

Calcutta dated 12.04.2022 reflects that the Public Prosecutor opposed the

prayer for bail and as such it was incumbent upon the learned Special Court to

satisfy itself regarding the broad probabilities relating to the existence of

reasonable grounds for believing that the accused was not guilty of the offence

alleged under the PMLA, 2002 while he wasbeing released on bail. The learned

Special Court without adhering to the merits of the case and the provisions of

law proceeded to allow the prayer for bail on reasons which are not applicable

in respect of the offences under the PMLA, 2002. The complaint filed by the prosecution itself contained prayer for further

investigation but the learned Special Court observed that there was no prayer

for further investigation. It would be apposite to state that an investigating

agency is not required to pray for permission for further investigation of the

case which is a settled principle of law and the same is prerogative of the

investigating agency. The duty of the investigating agency is to the extent of

informing the Court which the investigating agency in this case has done by

informing the Court in the complaint filed before it. Considering that the order dated 12.04.2022 passed by the Learned

Judge, Special (CBI), Court no.1, Calcutta in ML Case No. 11 of 2022 is in

violation of the provisions of Section 45 of the PMLA, 2002, I am of the opinion

that the said order calls for interference. Accordingly, the order dated

12.04.2022 granting bail to the accused Debabrata Halder is hereby set aside. 40 The bail granted to the accused Debabrata Halder being cancelled, he is

directed to surrender before the Learned Judge, Special (CBI), Court no.1,

Calcutta within 72 hours. Accordingly CRM (SB) 93 of 2022 is allowed. Pending applications, if any, are consequently disposed of.

 All parties shall act on the server copy of this judgment duly downloaded

from the official website of this Court. Urgent Xerox certified photocopy of this judgment, if applied for, be given

to the parties upon compliance of the requisite formalities. (Tirthankar Ghosh, J.)