1. This appeal has been filed by the appellant (the plaintiff in the suit)
 challenging the order dated 31.08.2019 passed by the learned Additional
 District Judge (Central)-10, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi (in short, 'the ADJ')
 in Suit bearing TM No. 97 of 2019 (157 of 2019) titled Ms. Dhani
 Aggarwal v. Mahesh Yadav & Ors. , whereby the learned ADJ has been
 pleased to dispose of the application of the appellant filed under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 read with Section 151 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908 (in short, the ' CPC ') as also the application of the
 respondents under Order XXXIX Rule 4 read with Section 151 of the
 CPC, holding that prima facie the word per se, that is, 'RAMU' (of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 1 of 25 appellant) and 'RAMAA', 'RAMAA MUNAKKA' label (of the
 respondents) may not have phonetic similarity but the overall get
 up/label/packaging of the appellant has been copied by the respondents
 and the respondents have tried to come close to the appellant; the
 appellant being the prior user of the mark/label and an established brand,
 was entitled to the protection of its label. The learned ADJ has held that
 the defendants in the suit/respondents herein would be entitled to use the
 trade mark 'RTC RAMAA', but with a label and colour combination
 which they have adopted for their inner packaging. The respondents have
 been restrained from use of the outer trade dress/label/colour combination
 as is being used by the appellant on its products. 2. The appellant is aggrieved of the vacation of the temporary
 injunction on the respondents from using its mark 'RAMMA' and
 'RAMMA MUNAKKA'. 3. On the other hand, the respondents have filed cross-objections,
 C.M. NO. 3-2022, praying that even the limited temporary injunction has
 been wrongly granted and should be vacated by this Court. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 4. The learned counsel for the appellant urges that the two marks, that
 is 'RAMU' (of the appellant) and 'RAMAA' (of the respondents), are
 phonetically similar. He submits that the appellant is admittedly the
 proprietor and the prior user of the mark, having adopted the same
 honestly and in a bona fide manner in the year 1995, through her
 predecessor, the Late Shri Ramavtar Aggarwal. The appellant is also the
 registered proprietor of the said mark in various forms and for various Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 2 of 25 goods under Class 29. The appellant also has registrations in copyright
 for artistic works involved in the said trade mark/label/trade-dress, under
 the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957 . Referring to the plaint filed
 before the learned ADJ, he submits that the appellant had sales of
 Rs.33,22,23,091/- (Rupees Thirty-Three Crore Twenty-Two Lakh
 Twenty-Three Thousand Ninety-One only) in the financial year 2017-18
 alone. He submits that the respondents have given no explanation for
 adopting a deceptively-similar mark for identical goods as that of the
 appellant. 5. The learned counsel for the appellant further submits that the
 appellant became aware of the existence of the respondents/defendants in
 the suit only in the second week of February 2019. On further inquiry, it
 came to the knowledge of the appellant that the respondents have
 obtained registration of its mark on a 'proposed to be used' basis vide
 application no. 3772367 under Class 29, filed on 07.03.2018. The
 appellant has also filed an application seeking rectification of the said
 mark and the said proceedings are pending. He submits that therefore, not
 only did the appellant have a good prima facie case in its favour but also
 had the balance of convenience in its favour and against the respondents,
 as the respondents have adopted the deceptively-similar mark just prior to
 the filing of the suit. 6. He submits that the learned ADJ has made an artificial distinction
 between the outer packaging and the inner packaging adopted by the
 respondents. He submits that the trade marks 'RAMU' and 'RAMAA',
 which form a pre-dominant part of the packaging, being deceptively
 similar, the other parts of the packaging cannot be sufficient to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 3 of 25 distinguish the two, or to hold that there will be no case of deception
 being caused. 7. Placing reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Laxmikant V Patel v. Chetanbhat Shah & Anr. , (2002) 3 SCC 65, he
 submits that where there is case of deliberate and intentional
 misrepresentation, it would amount to a fraud and the plaintiff does not
 have to prove actual damage in order to succeed in an action of passing
 off- as the likelihood of such damage caused is sufficient. 8. He submits that where the registration is obtained in a label mark,
 even the word mark contained therein is entitled to an equal protection. In support, he places reliance on the judgment dated 12.05.2022 passed
 by the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in V Guard Industries Ltd. v.
 Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Ltd., CS(COMM ) 92 of 2022. 9. He further submits that the test to be adopted is that of both,-
 phonetic and visual similarity, both being equally important. In support,
 he places reliance on the judgment of Division Bench of this Court in Hitachi Ltd. v. Ajay Kr. Agarwal & Ors. MANU/DE/0698/1995 . He
 submits that the test to be adopted is of comparison of the marks as a
 whole and the same cannot be dissected. 10. Placing reliance on the judgment of this Court in Century Traders
 v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. , AIR 1978 Del 250, he submits that the
 prior user trumps the registration of the trade mark. In the present case,
 even though the respondents obtained the registration of its mark, by the
 appellant being prior user, the appellant would have a better right and be
 entitled to protection of the said mark. He submits that, in fact, in such a
 case, infringement proceedings can be maintained even against a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 4 of 25 registered proprietor of the mark in this regard. In support, he places
 reliance on the judgments of a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Clinique Laboratories LLC and Another v. Gufic Limited and Another ,
 2009 (41) PTC 41 (Del) as also of the Division Bench of this Court in Raj Kumar Prasad and Anr v. Abbott Healthcare (P) Ltd. , 2014 SCC
 OnLine Del 7708. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 11. On the other hand, the learned senior counsel for the respondents
 submits that this Court, while exercising the power of an Appellate Court
 against an ad-interim order, cannot substitute its view for that of the
 learned Trial Court; interference will be warranted only where the view
 expressed by the learned ADJ is found to be perverse or unsustainable in
 law. In support of this assertion, he places reliance on the judgment of
 the Supreme Court in Wander Ltd. & Anr. v. Antox India P. Ltd. , 1990
 Supp SCC 727. 12. He submits that in the present case, the two marks are different and
 the same has been observed prima facie by the learned ADJ as well. The
 packaging of the products is also different and therefore, there is
 absolutely no likelihood of confusion or deception being caused by the
 adoption of the mark 'RAMAA' or of the packaging by the respondents.
 He submits that the source of the goods is clearly mentioned and
 distinguished in the packaging adopted by the respondents. In support of
 this claim, he places reliance on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
 Laboratories , (1965) 1 SCR 737. 13. The learned senior counsel for the respondents further submits that
 the appellant is not using the label for which she had obtained
 registration. In this regard, he submits that while the registration has
 been obtained by the appellant in the following label, the label used by
 the appellant is different: Registered Label Actual Label 14. He submits that therefore, the claim of infringement of trade mark
 is liable to be dismissed. 15. He submits that by the non-use of the registered mark for more
 than five years, the said mark is also liable to be cancelled under Section
 47 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (in short, 'the Act') and for the said
 purpose, the respondents have also filed an application seeking
 permission of the learned Trial Court to file a cancellation petition under Section 124 of the Act. He submits that this Court, while considering the
 interim relief to the appellant, can take into consideration whether the
 registration of the mark in favour of the appellant itself is prima facie
 liable to be cancelled. In support, he places reliance on the judgment of
 the Division Bench of this Court in Marico Limited. v. Agro Tech Foods
 Limited, (2010) 174 DLT 279 (DB). 16. The learned senior counsel for the respondents further submits that
 the respondents, being the registered proprietor of the mark, can use the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 6 of 25 defence that a suit for trade mark infringement does not lie against the
 said registered proprietor. In this regard, he places reliance on the
 judgment of S.Syed Mohideen v. P. Sulochana Bai , (2016) 2 SCC 683. 17. He further submits that the word 'RAMU' is a common name in
 India and therefore, no monopoly can be claimed over the same. This
 itself, in his submission, is sufficient to cancel the registration of the trade
 mark granted in favour of the appellant. 18. The learned senior counsel for the respondents further submits that
 the appellant is primarily dealing only in almonds and therefore, cannot
 claim monopoly over the mark for other goods-dry fruits. 19. He submits that the goods in question being dry fruits, the
 consumers can easily distinguish the two marks and there is no likelihood
 of confusion being caused. 20. The learned senior counsel for the respondents further submits that
 the adoption of the mark by the respondents is also bona fide inasmuch as
 the name of the grandmother of the respondents is 'Rama Devi'. 21. The learned senior counsel for the respondents finally submits that
 even the impugned order insofar as it directs the respondents to use only
 the inner packaging is liable to be set aside. He submits that the learned
 ADJ cannot issue such a mandatory direction; at best the power of the
 learned ADJ would be to restrain the use of a particular packaging. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS OF THE COURT 22. I have considered the submissions made by the learned counsels
 for the parties. 23. The appellant in the plaint has contended that she adopted the trade
 mark/label 'RAMU' in relation to the processing and marketing of dry
 fruits and other allied and related goods in January 1995, through her
 predecessor, the Late Sh. Ramavtar Aggarwal (trading as M/s Sabar
 International). After the death of the Late Sh. Ramavtar Aggarwal on
 09.11.2013, the appellant became the sole proprietor of M/s Sabar
 International. The appellant/plaintiff in the suit also gives details of the
 registration of her trade marks in paragraph 5 of the plaint as under: SR. NO. Trade Mark Application Class MARK Status
 No. DEVICE 1. RAMU 1409501 29 Label Registered 2. RAMU MAMRA 1965879 29 Label Registered
 GIRI 3. RAMU DHAANI 1980842 29 Label Registered
 MAMRA GIRI 4. RAMU MAMRA 2576049 29 Label Registered
 GIRI 5. RAMU 2393184 29 Label Registered
 SITARBAI 6. RAMU 2604618 29 Label Registered
 CALIFORNIA
 ALMOND 7. RAMU MAMRA 2853180 29 Label Registered
 GIRI GOLD
 COIN

 In order to acquire statutory rights under the Trade Marks Act, 1999 , the Plaintiff has also filed
 various other trademark applications for the said
 Trade marks/Labels to obtain registrations and
 are likely to be registered soon." 24. The appellant/plaintiff in the suit also has been granted copyright
 registrations for the artistic work in the labels, the details whereof have
 been given by the appellant/plaintiff in paragraph 9 of the plaint. 25. The appellant/plaintiff in paragraph 10 of the plaint, has also given
 the sales figures from the years 2001-02 to 2017-18, with the sales in the
 financial year 2017-18 being Rs.33,22,23,091/-. 26. From the above, at least prima facie, the appellant has been able to
 show goodwill and reputation of her mark/label in which the word
 'RAMU' is clearly the most predominant part. In V Guard Industries
 Ltd. (supra), this Court has held that the word mark in a label is also
 equally worth of protection. 27. On the other hand, the respondents applied for registration of its

 device mark ' ' on 07.03.2018 on a 'proposed to be
 used' basis. The appellant/plaintiff in the suit has asserted that she
 gained knowledge of the use of the impugned mark by the respondents in
 the second week of February 2019. The appellant filed the suit from
 which the present appeal arises on or about 30.04.2019 and an ad-interim
 ex-parte order of injunction was granted in her favour on 10.07.2019,
 which has been vacated vide the impugned order. 28. From the above narration, it is apparent that while the
 appellant/plaintiff in the suit is an established dealer and has a goodwill
 and reputation of her mark 'RAMU' by long user, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 9 of 25 respondents/defendants in the suit are relatively new entrant in the market
 as on the date of filing of the suit. 29. Though the learned senior counsel for the respondents sought to
 urge that the appellant is primarily dealing in almonds whereas the
 respondents do not deal in almonds, at least prima facie, the same does
 not appear to be correct, inasmuch as the respondents itself has produced
 packaging of the appellant's goods, which are khurmani and munakka. In
 any case, the goods of the appellant and the respondents are related/allied
 goods sold over the time counters and through the same trade channels.
 It is imperative to look at the matter from a commercial point of view,
 and trade channels are an important consideration in the event competing
 goods are used in the same sector. 30. This Court, in FDC Limited v. Docusuggest Healthcare , 2017
 SCC OnLine Del 6381 has considered in detail the concept of
 'allied/cognate goods or services', and has held as follows: Reference may also be made to New Webster's
 Dictionary and Thesaurus of the English
 Language, 1992 which defines "Allied" as
 "relating in subject or kind" and "Cognate" as
 "1. adj. having a common ancestor or origin (of
 languages or words) having a common source or
 root (of subjects etc.) related, naturally grouped Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 10 of 25 together.". Cognate goods/services can be
 described, inter alia, as goods or services which
 have a trade connection - as in glucose and
 biscuits (See Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd., AIR 1960 SC 142)
 or which are intended for the same class of
 customers - as in television picture tubes (parts
 thereof, video tapes and cassettes and television
 tuners etc.) and televisions, tuners and T.V. Kits
 (See Prakash Industries Ltd. v. Rajan Enterprises (1994) 14 PTC 31), or are complementary to each
 other - as in toothbrushes and toothpaste (See HM
 Sariya v. Ajanta India Ltd. (2006) 33 PTC 4). xxxx 53. Now, to determine whether the defendants'
 services are allied and cognate to plaintiff's
 goods, it is essential to first discuss the law on
 similarity in goods/services in trademarks and its
 development so far. While the Act is silent on the
 factors to be considered for similarity in
 goods/services, the Courts in India - relying upon
 international cases and literature, have
 consolidated the guiding principles and factors
 found relevant in ascertaining the similarity
 between goods/services. They are as follows: (emphasis supplied) 3. In Para 9-075, the Learned Author has
 mentioned some illustrations on similar
 goods or services including under Para 9-
 078 ""Services offered by beauty salons; solarium services" similar to "business
 assistance with beauty preparations, sales" 4. In British Sugar Plc. v. James Robertson
 & Sons Ltd. [1996] R.P.C. 281 at 294-297,
 relied upon in Balkrishna Hatcheries v. Nandos International Ltd. 2007 SCC
 OnLine Bom 449 and Advance Magazine
 Publishers, Inc. v. Just Lifestyle Pvt. Ltd. 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 8417, the court laid
 down the objective test for similarity of
 description of goods/services as follows: 5. Kerly 15 ed. while relying upon Canon
 (supra), further observes in Para 9-065 that
 the element of distinctive character of a
 trademark and its reputation is also viewed
 when determining similarity between the
 goods and services and whether such
 similarity is sufficient to give rise to the
 likelihood of confusion." (Emphasis supplied) 31. As held by the Supreme Court in Corn Products Refining Co. v.
 Shangrila Food Products Ltd. , (1960) 1 SCR 968, the test to be applied
 is also of 'trade connection'. In the present case, it cannot be said that
 the products of the appellant and the respondents are so distinct that they
 cannot create any confusion in the mind of the common
 purchasers/consumers. The common purchasers/consumers who are
 aware of the mark of the appellant can easily be misguided into believing
 that the appellant has now expanded its business to other dry fruits, which
 may be considered as a natural trade progression for the plaintiff. 32. In this regard, reference can also be made to the judgment of this
 Court in Ceat Tyres of India Ltd. v. Jai Industrial Services, 1990 SCC
 OnLine Del 360 and of the High Court of Bombay in Sunder Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 13 of 25 Parmanand Lalwani v. Caltex (India) Ltd., 1965 SCC OnLine Bom 151. 33. Having considered the above, it now brings me to the two labels to
 find out if the same can be said to be identical or deceptively-similar.
 The test to determine the above is now too well-settled. In Corn
 Products Refining (supra) and Parle Products (P) Ltd. v. J.P. & Co.
 Mysore , AIR 1972 SC 1359, the Supreme Court held that the question
 has to be approached from the point of view of a man of average
 intelligence and imperfect recollection. The test is of an unwary
 purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect recollection who would
 go by the overall structural and phonetic similarity. Reference may also
 be made to Mondelez India Foods Pvt. Ltd. and Anr. v. Neeraj Food
 Products , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 2199. 34. In Cadila Healthcare Ltd. v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , (2001)
 5 SCC 73, the Supreme Court laid down the test for deciding the question
 of marks being 'deceptively similar' as under: 36. Weightage to be given to each of the
 aforesaid factors depends upon facts of each case
 and the same weightage cannot be given to each
 factor in every case." 35. In the matter of an application by Rysta Ld. to register a
 Trade Mark, (1943) 60 RPC 87, it has been held that "the answer to the
 question whether the sound of one work resembles too nearly the sound
 of another so as to bring the former within the limits of section 12 of the
 Trade Marks Act, 1938, must nearly always depend on first impression,
 for obviously a person who is familiar with both words will neither be
 deceived nor confused. It is the person who only knows the one word, and
 has perhaps an imperfect recollection of it, who is likely to be deceived
 or confused. Little assistance, therefore, is to be obtained from a
 meticulous comparison of the two words, letter by letter and syllable by
 syllable, pronounced with the clarity to be expected from a teacher of
 elocution." 36. In M/s South India Beverages Pvt. Ltd. v. General Mills
 Marketing Inc. , (2015) 61 PTC 231 (Del.), a Division Bench of this
 Court held as under: 37. In Walter Bushnell Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. v. Miracle Life Sciences &
 Anr. , 2014 (59) PTC 339 (Del), a learned Single Judge of this Court has
 held that "in order to prove the case for infringement of trade mark, the
 plaintiff has to show that the essential features of the registered trade
 mark which has been adopted by the defendant has been taken out from
 the plaintiff‟s registration. Only the marks are to be compared by the
 Court and in case the registration is granted in favour of the plaintiff, he
 acquires valuable right by reason of the said registration." It was further
 held that "the test of comparison of the marks side by side is not a sound
 one since a purchaser will seldom have the two marks actually before
 him when he makes his purchase. The eye is not an accurate recorder of
 visual detail and that marks are remembered by general impression or by
 some significant detail rather than by any photographic recollection of
 the whole. While judging the question as to whether the defendant has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 16 of 25 infringed the trade mark by colourable imitation of the mark or not, the
 Court has to consider the overall impression of the mark in the minds of
 general public and not by merely comparing the dissimilarities in the two
 marks." 38. Applying the above test to the facts of the present appeal, it must
 be held that the words 'RAMU' and 'RAMAA', are the predominant
 part of the two label marks; the same closely resemble each other - both
 structurally as also phonetically; the class of purchasers are those who
 would not pay much attention to the dissimilarities in the two labels but
 go by their imperfect recollection of the marks; the goods are sold over-
 the-counter and through e-commerce websites, therefore, having the
 same selling point; the use of the prefix 'RTC' is also not sufficient to
 distinguish the two marks or the source of the goods. The two marks,
 therefore, are deceptively similar to each other. 39. The learned ADJ in his impugned order has held that there is no
 visual and phonetic similarity between the trade marks 'RAMU' and
 'RAMAA'. In my opinion, the learned ADJ has erred in law in reaching
 the above conclusion. It has not only failed to apply the test culled out
 hereinabove, but also seems to have adopted the test of comparison of the
 marks side-by-side, which as observed herein above, is not the correct
 test. Phonetically the two marks, that is, 'RAMU' and 'RAMAA' are
 similar and would cause confusion in the mind of an unwary consumer
 wanting to purchase goods like dry fruits off-the-shelf. It appears that the
 test applied by the learned ADJ in the present case is not of an unwary
 consumer with imperfect recollection but of a person who has an ideal Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 17 of 25 memory and therefore, who can easily distinguish between the two
 marks. 40. The learned ADJ has further been guided by the fact that the
 appellant did not file any opposition against the trade mark 'RAMAA'
 when it was advertised for registration in the Journal of Trade Marks.
 This, in my view, cannot be of much significance as the suit has been
 filed by the appellant/plaintiff in the suit immediately on coming to know
 of the use of the mark by the respondents/defendants in the suit. The
 advertisement of a mark of an opponent can escape one's attention and
 therefore, such mark can proceed to registration. However, on coming to
 know of the use of the mark, if the proprietor has taken immediate action,
 it cannot be said that the proprietor has acquiesced the use of such
 deceptively-similar mark by their opponent. [Ref: Midas Hygiene
 Industries (P) Ltd. v. Sudhir Bhatia , (2004) 3 SCC 90]. It is also well-
 settled that an injunction can be granted even against a registered
 proprietor of a mark. Reference in this regard may be made to the
 judgment of this Court in Clinique Laboratories LLC and Another (supra). 41. In S. Syed Mohideen (supra), which has been relied upon by the
 learned senior counsel for the respondents, it has been held that the rights
 of prior user are superior to that of registration and are unaffected by the
 registration rights under the Act. Registration merely recognises the
 rights which are pre-existing in common law and does not create any
 rights and in case of conflict between the two registered proprietors, the
 evaluation of the better rights in common law is essential as the common
 law rights would enable the court to determine whose rights between the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 18 of 25 two registered proprietors are better and superior in common law which
 have been recognised in the form of the registration by the Act. Applying
 the said principle, the appellant being the prior adopter of the mark,
 certainly has a superior right over the respondents in the said mark and is
 entitled to protection of the same notwithstanding the registration
 obtained by the respondents. 42. The learned ADJ has also come to the conclusion that the
 respondents have used the packaging which is similar to that of the
 appellant; the kind of packaging material used by the respondent is
 absolute similar; the colour combination of packaging at serial nos.3,4,6
 and 9 are deceptively-similar; the adoption of different label for inner and
 outer packaging shows the dishonesty on the part of the respondents; and
 that the overall get up/label/packaging has been copied by the
 respondents, and they have attempted to come close to the appellant,
 which has been in the market prior to the respondents' mark and was an
 established brand. In spite of having reached the above conclusion, the
 learned ADJ in the impugned order, has allowed the respondents to use
 the trade mark 'RTC RAMAA' with the label and colour combination,
 which they have for their inner packaging. 43. The above direction is also incorrect. The learned ADJ has also
 failed to appreciate that once it is held that the adoption and user of a
 mark by the respondent was not bona fide but was, in fact, intended to
 deceive, injunction must follow. Reliance in this regard is placed on a
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Renaissance Hotel Holdings Inc. v.
 B. Vijaya Sai and Others , (2022) 5 SCC 1. 44. In Laxmikant Patel (supra), it has been held that where a
 defendant has imitated or adopted the plaintiff's distinctive trade mark or
 business name, the order may be of an absolute injunction that he would
 not use or carry out business under that name. 45. In the present case, the packaging, both outer and inner adopted by
 the respondents, appears to be intending to merely come as close to the
 appellant as possible. As held in Baker v. Master Printers Union of
 New Jersey, 47 USPQ 69 at 72 (D.N.J. 1940) and quoted by the learned
 Single Judge of this Court in Marico Limited v. Mr.Mukesh Kumar &
 Ors. , 2018 SCC OnLine Del 10823), "The most successful form of
 copying is to employ enough points of similarity to confuse the public
 with enough points of different to confuse the courts. Few would be
 stupid enough to make exact copies of another‟s mark or symbol." 46. The packaging adopted by both the parties are reproduced
 hereinbelow: 47. Compared as a whole, the packaging of the products of the
 appellant and the respondents appears deceptively-similar to each other
 and the adoption thereof on part of the respondents has rightly been held
 by the learned ADJ to be dishonest. 48. The submission of the learned senior counsel for the respondents
 that dissimilarity of packaging by reason of variation in colours and other
 features of their general get-up negates the appellant's claim of passing
 off cannot be accepted. It is the overall impression of the mark and the
 label which is the guiding principle and not the minute dissimilarity, as
 are being pointed out by the learned senior counsel for the respondents.
 The judgment in Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma (supra), therefore,
 is not applicable to the facts of the present case. 49. The submission of the learned senior counsel for the defendant
 that no injunction can be granted in favour of the appellant as it is using a
 label/mark which is different from the one that is registered and that such
 registration itself is liable to be cancelled on this ground, also cannot be
 accepted at this stage. When enquired as to whether the plea of non-user
 was taken by the respondents in the written statement filed in the suit
 which is pending before the learned ADJ, the learned senior counsel for
 the respondents drew my attention to paragraph 6 of the preliminary
 submissions/objections in the written statement in the suit, which reads as
 under: 50. The above averment in the written statement in the suit is very
 different to the one that is being argued before this Court. As presently
 there is neither an averment in the written statement in the suit by the
 defendants/respondents that the registration granted in favour of the
 plaintiff/appellant is liable to be cancelled for its non-user, nor does this
 submission appear to have been made before the learned ADJ, the said
 plea cannot be considered in the present appeal. 51. Apart from the fact that a plea of non-user of the mark has not been
 taken by the respondents before the learned ADJ, the fact remains that the
 appellant is not seeking a right on the stylised version of its mark Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 22 of 25 'RAMU' but on the word per se. It is the words 'RAMU' and
 'RAMAA' which are found to be phonetically similar and likely to
 deceive and not their stylised versions. The claim of the appellant is not
 only of infringement but also of the respondents/defendants passing off.
 Therefore, an injunction cannot be refused to the appellant if a case of
 passing off is made good. 52. In Veerumal Praveen Kumar v. Needle Industries (India) Ltd. &
 Anr. , 2001 SCC OnLine Del 892, relied upon by the learned senior
 counsel for the respondents, there was no evidence of use of the mark and
 the question before the court was whether injunction can be granted only
 because of registration of the said mark. This was answered in the
 negative. However, in the present case, the misuser alleged is at best of
 the registered stylised version and not of the mark 'RAMU'. The said
 judgment therefore, cannot have any application to the facts of the
 present case. For the same reason, the judgment of the Division Bench of
 this Court in Fedders Llyod Corporation Ltd. & Anr. v. Fedders
 Corporation & Anr. , 2005 (30) PTC 353 (Del), also cannot come to the
 rescue of the respondents. 53. The submissions of the learned senior counsel for the respondents
 that no monopoly can be claimed by the appellant in a common name like
 'RAMU' and that no injunction can be granted against the use of the
 word 'RAMAA', which is the name of a Hindu God, is liable to be
 rejected. The word 'RAMU' has no association with the goods in
 question, that is, dry fruits. It is, therefore, arbitrary as far as the goods in
 question are concerned. Further, the respondents themselves having
 obtained registration in the mark 'RAMAA', are estopped from Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 23 of 25 contending that the said mark is publici juris. By seeking registration
 thereof, it is the respondents who have sought to obtain monopoly over
 the said mark. 54. Though the learned senior counsel for the respondents has rightly
 submitted that the Appellate Court should not interfere with the exercise
 of discretion of the Court of the first instance and substitute its own
 discretion, however, in the facts of the present case, in my opinion, the
 discretion has been wrongly exercised by the learned ADJ by ignoring
 the settled principles of law. As held by the Supreme Court in Laxmikant Patel (supra), a refusal to grant an injunction in spite of the
 availability of facts, which are prima facie established by overwhelming
 evidence and material available on record justifying the grant thereof,
 occasions a failure of justice and such injury to the plaintiff as would not
 be capable of being undone at a later stage; it, therefore, becomes
 obligatory on the part of the Appellate Court to interfere. 55. In view of the above, the impugned order is set aside. The
 respondents are restrained by way of an ad-interim injunction from using,
 selling, soliciting, exporting, displaying, advertising or marketing their
 product under the mark 'RAMAA', 'RAMAA MUNAKKA' label or
 any other mark, which is deceptively-similar to the appellant's trade mark
 'RAMU', during the pendency of the suit. 56. The appeal is allowed in the above terms. There shall be no order
 as to costs. 57. It is made clear that any and all observations made herein above
 are prima facie in nature and shall not in any manner be held to be Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SHALOO BATRA Signing Date:23.08.2022 18:30:42 FAO-IPD 23/2021 Page 24 of 25 binding on the learned Trial Court or influence the learned Trial Court at
 the trial of the suit. NAVIN CHAWLA, J
 AUGUST 22, 2022/Arya/RN/AB/Ais.