Madras High Court has granted interim relief to Tamil news publication Vikatan, lifting the blocking of the news site, according to a blog post by the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF). This comes after the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) blocked the publication’s site in February after it posted a cartoon of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his hands and feet cuffed and chained, sitting next to US President Donald Trump.

The government initially gave Vikatan no information about the blocking. However, after the publication contacted the MIB, it informed Vikatan that there was an inter-ministerial meeting to discuss the matter. It gave Vikatan till February 20 to respond to the blocking order. In a statement about the situation, Vikatan’s Managing Editor, Srinivasan B, had said that if the committee’s decision was not in line with the principles of press freedom, the publication would pursue legal action.

As such, Vikatan filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court, stating that the blocking order does not fall under the reasonable restrictions defined outlined in 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act, 2000) and Article 19 (2) of the Constitution of India . Section 69A of the IT Act allows the government to issue blocking orders for a range of reasons, including in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, and friendly relations with foreign States.

As the Internet Freedom Foundation pointed out, the government claims that it issued blocking orders for Vikatan’s site under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (IT Rules, 2021) because the cartoon ‘endangered’ India’s sovereignty and friendly relations with foreign states.

In the cartoon, Vikatan was trying to satirically depict Prime Minister Modi’s silence on the issues of Indians whom the US government had handcuffed and deported . However, instead of taking down one cartoon, the government issued blocking orders for an entire news site, raising concerns about freedom of speech and expression online. It could deter other news publications from being critical of the government.

Vikatan argued the same in its petition, stating that blocking the whole site, and that too for nearly a month, was a disproportionate measure. Further, it stated that the order restricts Vikatan’s economic and operational rights.

During the case hearing on March 6, Vikatan’s legal representatives argued that the blocking order lacked transparency because the government refused to disclose who filed the complaint against its cartoon or the basis for the complaint. They further argued that the government could not justify the blocking order solely on the grounds of India’s sovereignty. Instead, it needed to demonstrate a clear link between the cartoon and any threat to the country’s sovereignty and integrity.

While the government’s legal representatives opposed restoring Vikatan’s site, they acknowledged that the interministerial committee had recommended reinstating access if the publication removed the cartoon.

The court has directed the government to restore public access to all other content on Vikatan’s website besides the cartoon. On the other hand, it instructed Vikatan to temporarily take down the cartoon till the court takes a final decision on the matter. According to a statement that Vikatan issued, the court is yet to decide whether Vikatan’s cartoon is protected under the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(2) of the constitution or if MIB had permissible grounds to block it under the IT Act.

16.02.2025 விகடன் பிளஸ் இதழின் (10.02.2025 அன்று வெளியான) அட்டையாக வெளியான கார்ட்டூன், WP 7944 of 2025 என்ற வழக்கில் 06-03-2025 அன்று மாண்பமை சென்னை உயர் நீதிமன்றம் தந்த உத்தரவின்படி நீக்கப்படுகிறது. இந்த விவகாரத்தில், குறிப்பிட்ட அந்த கார்ட்டூன் அரசியல் சாசனத்தின் பிரிவு… pic.twitter.com/SjHmQZFi6D

For now, Vikatan’s website is live again, and the court has scheduled the case for a hearing on March 21, 2025.

MediaNama has filed an RTI with MIB for the blocking order against Vikatan. We have also sent questions about the reasons behind blocking the entire site to the Ministry and will update the story once we receive a response .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event