At Medianama’s PrivacyNama 2022 event, four privacy officers shared insights into how they help organisations adopt a ‘data-friendly’ approach and what challenges companies face while dealing with data. They discussed a range of subjects, from data localisation and cross-border transfers to managing data breaches. This article based on the virtual discussion held on October 7, 2022, will help readers better understand the role and functions of a privacy officer.

Session timestamp: 3:08

Session Chair: Rahul Narayan (Advocate, Supreme Court) Speakers: Ali Khan (Head: Governance, Risk, Compliance & Audit, ZS Associates Inc.), Ivana Bartoletti (Global Data Privacy Officer at Wipro), and Monika Tomczak-Gorlikowska (Chief Privacy Officer of Prosus N.V.), Raditya Kosasih ( Group Data Protection Officer, Gojek )

MediaNama is hosting these discussions with support from Mozilla, Meta, Walmart, Amazon, the Centre for Communication Governance at NLU Delhi, Access Now, the Centre for Internet and Society, and the Advertising Standards Council of India.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

Working as a privacy officer

When asked about her work as a privacy officer, Ivana Bartoletti said, “whoever works in privacy at the moment knows that there is never a quiet moment”. She added that the role of a privacy officer is not limited to just making data processing agreements or overseeing privacy programs, but extends to how an organisation applies privacy at the intersection with other disciplines. She stressed on the importance of lawyers and IT professionals working together to solve problems. Earlier, lawyers and IT professionals wouldn’t understand each other but now it has become important for a programmer working on artificial intelligence to understand the meaning of fairness from a legal and ethical standpoint.

Dealing with multiple Data Protection Authorities

Regarding this, Bartoletti stressed three important points:

Data officer without a law degree

Role of a privacy officer

Privacy officers should act as auditors

We say that risk and compliances are your first and second line of defenses, these are business enablers, audit is your third line of defense which is also a tool for continuous improvement. It also depends on the audit and compliance professionals’ personal behaviour on how they want to make business feel that comfort that we are enablers, we are providing you with insight that could be a tool for improvement and (we’re) not somebody standing with a yardstick and say you have crossed the line.

Working as a privacy officer for an investment firm

“All of this is very much pull rather than push and it’s very much on the capacity you bring to those companies” – Monika Tomczak-Gorlikowska

“So the audit is really like sort of last of those methods that we use and I think we also managed to persuade our companies that you know audit is an enabler of the ability for them to identify those areas where they need to improve and we have worked a lot with our audit function to make sure that this model is properly understood by both sides.” – Monika Tomczak-Gorlikowska

“The role of a privacy officer extends to providing companies “with a framework where there is a specific person in that room which will be the privacy leader for that organization depending on its size and location who is going to be there and who is going to be able to communicate effectively with their business and tech counterparts, product and tech people using the right language, having the right skills and I think as we all mentioned the world is not getting an easier place in terms of regulatory developments.” – Monika Tomczak-Gorlikowska

The concept of minimum privacy standards

Data protection in South-East Asia

“So I think if you want to adopt the golden rules of privacy for example like GDPR you need to be very careful and make sure that the citizen or the public also have a good awareness or digital literacy. Make sure that they really understand the data privacy law before you adopt those principles because otherwise I think you can have the law but the enforcement is not there yet.” – Raditya Kosasih

Dealing with data localisation and cross-border transfer of data

“In my past professional [experience] […] I went through the trauma of actually adhering to a number of data localization regimes globally for you know for all systems and sort of in a big centralized businesses and it is not simple, it costs a lot of money and you basically need to rework your entire governance of the program sometimes.”

“…let’s look at China, cross-border data transfer is a big deal there. It’s a growing market we cannot avoid in any manner, we need to work and learn to work with the regulators to meet with the compliances. So there are some places where there’s a hard stop, you must adhere or else you cannot operate” – Ali Khan

Dealing with a data breach

At the time of the data breach is when “the industry, the authorities as well as a collaborative forum needs to come together and say you know we stand by you, we all are one, understand the pain, we understand the hurt, let’s recover together and let’s be bold enough to accept we are all victims, till that point of time we do not embrace this pain, I think we are giving an opportunity to the Cyber threat actors to breach us, to find avenues to steal our data”

How would you draft a ‘perfect’ data protection law? The session chair asked the panelists

Privacy in the future

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event