An X/Twitter user who went viral on the platform for posting her photograph in an auto rickshaw, wearing a bandana, along with the comment “makeup  ate today” has locked her account after she was allegedly doxed online , and her photos were used to make AI generated videos . While the post had gone viral at the beginning of this month, a recent post where she displayed her degree online has reportedly led to her doxing. A twitter summary suggested that non-consensual explicit AI generated images were also circulated online.

While locking her account, she wrote: “This is going to be my last tweet for a while. There are a lot of AI-generated images and videos of me being circulated that I DID NOT CONSENT TO. It’s reached a lot of people I know, and it’s affected me heavily. Please stop feeding AI applications media of real people. This has actual real-life consequences. Please ASK FOR CONSENT before you upload anything onto an AI platform.”

Now a few things here:

1. People didn’t legally need her consent to generate AI images: It’s a failure of India’s Digital Personal Data Protection Act that we don’t have protection for personal data that we might publish online on a social media platform. It’s rank stupidity from the Indian government that they’ve inserted a clause that says:

3. Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall— (a) apply to the processing of digital personal data within the territory of India where the personal data is collected–– (i) in digital form; or (ii) in non-digital form and digitised subsequently; (b) also apply to processing of digital personal data outside the territory of India, if such processing is in connection with any activity related to offering of goods or services to Data Principals within the territory of India; Application of Act.

(c) not apply to— (i) personal data processed by an individual for any personal or domestic purpose; and (ii) personal data that is made or caused to be made publicly available by— (A) the Data Principal to whom such personal data relates; or (B) any other person who is under an obligation under any law for the time being in force in India to make such personal data publicly available.

Illustration.

X, an individual, while blogging her views, has publicly made available her personal data on social media. In such case, the provisions of this Act shall not apply.

This means that all our photos and videos online, if we’ve published them on social media, are fair game, as per a law that’s supposed to protect our personal data.

I’m not saying that they shouldn’t need her consent. I’m just saying they didn’t need it because of the law. This incident once again illustrates that India’s privacy law is not built for a world where scale is instant, harm is irreversible, and the subject is actually disempowered by the law. Our laws should make public spaces (even if privately owned) safer for our citizens.

As I’ve said before, publicly available isn’t public property, and this applies to facial data as well.

2. AI companies need to have some checks here, even if the law fails us. They need to find mechanisms of ascertaining whether someone has consent to use someone’s voice. I know it will be argued that technology is just a tool and it can be used for good and bad, and don’t blame the tool, blame the person using it. The fact is that there are clearly situations where there are checks and balances in place, including CSAM. The Indian government has recently released guidelines for non consensual sexual imagery. I don’t see why restrictions should apply to all imagery that is non-consensual. The flip side of it is that if a photographer is using tools like filters to make changes to photographs they’ve taken from a client, will they have to get consent for each and every person in each and every instance? There’s got to be a middle ground and we need to find it.

3. X/Twitter needs to do better: The Internet is already unsafe for women. I won’t say that this is a new thing – 4Chan has existed for decades, but platforms like X have a responsibility to create a safer space for all their users, not just women. As we’ve reported in the past, ads were being run on platforms like X, featuring singer Shreya Ghoshal ( my interview with her here ), without consent. It’s all fine for X to go to court against the Sahyog portal to protect free speech, but they need to be more responsive in protecting the privacy of their users as well. Their platform reporting mechanisms are cumbersome, and their local teams, including their Chief Compliance Officer, are unresponsive – I know because I’ve tried to contact him for people who’ve reached out to me for help.

4. All platforms need to protect against identity theft: Deepfakes aren’t just a content issue, or just a content moderation and tagging issue, while India’s attempt at regulating deepfakes treats them only as a content moderation issue. One can argue that deepfakes are actually identify theft, and while the IT Act does protect against impersonation, what happens when someone is making fake AI generated videos of you? Is that impersonation? The harm is clear: this can impact someones employability, reputation and safety. Celebrities can be protected under personality rights, and they’re going to court by the dozens for protection. YouTube has protection for its creators, but is a limited attempt. We need platforms to do better to protect their users against identity theft, because our lawmakers have clearly failed us with the Data Protection Act.

5. People need to be more careful because AI can do so much more: I’m not victim blaming here, but we really need to be more careful when disclosing personal information or even photographs that don’t feature us, on the Internet, because of all that AI can do. Recently Pieter Levels, a well known developer and entrepreneur, posted a photo with a view from his hotel room. When he went down to the lobby, there was a stranger there who had figured out his hotel from that photo.

His point: “But still it did make me remember that rule to never post photos in a place until you’ve left! Because you may get instantly d0xed and visited by people I guess obvious in 2025 Especially in a time where AI can find where any photo is taken in literally seconds, even up to the floor number you stay in a hotel, I stayed at floor 37 and it correctly guessed the range (33-38)”

The morning after posting this photo in Tokyo, a stranger awaited me in the lobby of my hotel I went for breakfast and while passing through the lobby, someone on the sofa there turned around and said "Hello Pieter 🤝 " I was like WTF 😳 It turns out he was an indie hacker… https://t.co/tKrzzEPN90 pic.twitter.com/S8oIPYMX4G

We need to be more careful. It isn’t 2015 anymore.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event