Data fiduciaries should report all data breaches to the Data Protection Authority (DPA) within 72 hours of becoming aware of them, the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 has recommended in its report, which was tabled in Parliament on December 16.

The committee has also recommended that the DPA direct data fiduciaries to inform data principals of personal data breaches after considering the severity of the harm caused.

The earlier draft of the bill had no provisions for reporting breaches to data principals, and only required reporting to the DPA if the breach was likely to cause harm to data principals. There was also no specific timeline prescribed for reporting breaches.

The committee has recommended significant changes to the role of the DPA during a data breach and obligations of fiduciaries:

Scope: Data fiduciaries will be required to report all data breaches to the DPA.

Timeline: Data fiduciaries must be required to submit the notice to the DPA within 72 hours after becoming aware of the data breach, the committee recommended

Urgent measures: The DPA has been empowered to direct the data fiduciary to take ‘any urgent measures’ to mitigate the harm caused to data principals.

Non-personal data: The committee suggests that the bill add a provision for non-personal data, saying only that the DPA shall ‘take necessary steps as may be prescribed.”

The committee recommends that the Data Protection Authority follow a set of guiding principles while framing regulations around data breaches, including the following points:

Corrigendum (19 Dec, 11:07 AM): An earlier version of this story incorrectly mentioned that the JPC report includes new requirements for reporting data breaches to data principals. No additional requirements have been imposed on that front. The article has been updated to reflect the same.

[gravityform id=”1″ title=”true” description=”true”]

Subscribe to MediaNama to get access to our ongoing coverage of the bill. Here is everything we have planned around the JPC report:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event