Per Rajpal Yadav, Vice-President (KZ):- 2. The assessee has taken five grounds of appeal, but
its grievances revolve around a single issue, namely ld.
CIT(Appeals) has erred in confirming the disallowance of
short-term capital loss of Rs.6,60,500/-, which was
disallowed by the ld. Assessing Officer by disbelieving the
transaction of the assessee. 3. ITAT has issued number of notices to the assessee,
but in response to notices, no one has come present on
behalf of the assessee. With the assistance of ld. D.R., we
have perused the record carefully and proceed to decide
the appeal ex par te qua the assessee. 4. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee has filed
its return of income on 21.08.2014 declaring total loss of
Rs.8,84,736/-. The case of the assessee was selected for
scrutiny assessment and a notice under section 143(2)
was issued and served upon the assessee. On perusal of
the accounts, it revealed to the ld. Assessing Officer that
assessee-company had claimed short-term capitl loss of
Rs.6,60,500/- in the shares of M/s. SRK Industries
Limited. The ld. Assessing Officer has directed the
assessee to submit necessary details in support of the
claim. The assessee has contended that it has purchased
8,000 shares of SRK Industries Limited from the Stock
Exchange and sold them on real time basis at prevalent
market price at BSE. The assessee has submitted 2 ITA No. 1739/KOL/2019 Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 Omang Trade & Management Pvt. Limited
documentary evidence in support of the claim. In other
words, it has purchased shares @ Rs.172.67 per share
and sold these shares @ Rs.90.11. Thus a loss has been
claimed. On an analysis of all the transactions, ld.
Assessing Officer has observed that shares of this
Company have been treated as a penny stock, which has
been transacted in and around Kolkata. He disbelieved
these transactions and disallowed the loss. 5. The ld. CIT(Appeals) has concurred with the ld.
Assessing Officer. His order is running into 18 pages, out
of those 18 pages, from pages no. 4 to 18, he has only
made reference to the ratio of law laid down in different
judgments. In other words, he has reproduced the Head
Notes and other details of these judgments. The factual
finding is available only in pages no. 2 & 3, which reads
as under:- In view of the above the AO was not satisfied with the
 genuineness of the Short Term Capital Loss claimed by the
 appellant and therefore he disallowed the amount claimed of
 Rs.6,60,500/- by treating it as Bogus. The appellant has filed before the AO the following
 documents in support of their claim: It has been contended that the shares in which the
 appellant has traded is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and
 all the purchase and sale transactions were made on the Online
 System of the Bombay Stock Exchange through the broker M/s.
 ISE Securities & Services Limited and M/s. Prabhat Kumar
 Jhunjhunwala. It has been contended that the AO has made the
 addition on suspicion, surmises and conjectures. It was further
 submitted that there was absolutely no evidence on record for
 linking the assessee with the alleged scam of manipulation in
 share pricing leading to Long Term Capital Gain/Short Term
 Capital Loss. Accordingly, it was argued that the loss being
 genuine in nature, should be allowed. Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 Omang Trade & Management Pvt. Limited

 I find that all the submissions made by the appellant during
 the course of the appellate proceedings and during the course of
 the assessment proceedings point towards elaborate
 documentation i.e. the appellant has produced papers relating
 purchase/sale of the shares, the holding of the shares, the demat
 account, payments by cheque and the necessary bank
 statements. It is the contention of the appellant that they have
 provided copies of the bank statement, bank contract notes and
 delivery instructions to the broker by way of proof that all these
 transactions were genuine. However in my considered view of the
 matter, it is precisely this elaborate paperwork that strengthens
 the matter relating to the bogus losses in the said share
 transactions, which clearly has been pre-planned and executed in
 an organized manner with mala fide intentions. Therefore all
 these papers and documents are self-serving and do not have
 much evidentiary value. The whole gamut of transactions are
 natural highly suspicious, and therefore the rules of suspicious
 transactions do apply in the impugned case. There are grave
 doubts in the story propounded by the assessee before (he
 authorities below. None of the material produced before .he Ld AO
 by the appellant, are enough to justify the losses that have
 accrued in the share transactions. In my considerate view the
 banking documents are mere self-serving recitals". 6. We have gone through the findings of both the
Revenue Authorities. It is pertinent to observe that
during inve stigation of Director of Investigation, the
transaction in the sale and purchase of shares of M/s.
SRK Industries was termed as a penny stock and recently
Hon'ble Calcutta High Court has dismissed a large
number of appeals, wherein more than 80 scrips were
treated as bogus. This scrip is one of them and,
therefore, after going through the finding of Revenue
Authorities, we do not find any merit in it and it is
dismissed. Assessment Year: 2014-2015
 Omang Trade & Management Pvt. Limited 7. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is
dismissed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 09 January,
2023. Copies to :(1) Omang Trade & Management Pvt. Ltd.,
 25A, Camac Street, 4 t h Floor,
 Room No. 408A, Kolkata-700016

 (2) Income Tax Officer,
 Ward-8(2), Kolkata,
 Aayakar Bhawan,
 P-7, Chowringhee Square,
 Kolkata-700069
 (3) Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-3,
 Kolkata;