The Reserve Bank of India has said that customers will have zero liability if a fraudulent or unauthorised transaction takes place, in case of negligence or deficiency from the bank, or a third party breach takes place and the customer notifies the bank in three working days , after receiving communication from the bank of the unauthorised transaction.

However, that limited liability of the customer increases as time passes. For example, in case of Mobile Wallets or Credit Cards with a limit of up to Rs 5 lakh, the maximum liability will be of Rs 10,000 if the transaction is reported between 4-7 working days. More details on liability.

What’s also very significant here is that the RBI has recommended that Banks may deny customers the ability to transact digitally, if customers decline to link mobile numbers with their bank accounts.

What is important here is that the RBI has emphasised that the liability for unauthorised transactions lies with the banks, and only a limited liability may be passed on to customers. The burden of proving customer liability in case of unauthorised electronic banking transactions shall also lie with the bank.

Previously, the cardholder had to bear the loss sustained “up to the time of notification to the bank of any loss, theft or copying of the card but only up to a certain limit (of fixed amount or a percentage of the transaction agreed upon in advance between the cardholder and the bank), except where the cardholder acted fraudulently, knowingly or with extreme negligence.” The RBI has now determined that limit.

Banks were also not be held liable for any loss caused by a technical breakdown of the payment system, “if the breakdown of the system was recognizable for the cardholder by a message on the display of the device or otherwise known.”

Important: The number of working days calculation excludes the date of the customer receiving the communication.

On being notified the by the customer, the bank must reverse the amount involved in the unauthorised transaction to the customers account within 10 working days from the date of notification by the customer. Banks may also waive liability, at their discretion, in case this is owing to customer negligence.

In case of debit card or bank account, the customer should not suffer any loss of interest. In case of credit card, the customer should not be charged any additional interest (for this transaction).

The resolution, in case the complaint is post 7 working days, needs to be done in a timeframe not exceeding 90 days, and where the bank is unable to resolve the complaint or determine the customers liability within 90 days, the compensation (based on the liability list above) needs to be given to the customer.

What Banks need to do

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event