SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Whistleblower - Exposing A MLM from Indian Premier institute graduates.
DATE: 2019-09-30
SCORE: 268
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/db5ei4/whistleblower_exposing_a_mlm_from_indian_premier/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sorry, for posting this here but I had to get it off my chest. I am JU chemical engg dropout, pursuing a cse degree from a 3 tier college at the age of 25. Recently, one of my seniors from JU(2014 batch), whom I have never spoken to in my entire life approached me for a "business proposal". When I asked him what the business was about, he said it's an ecommerce business. I asked him if it's something like shopify. He said no and he said the details can only be explained to me in person. It sounded like a mlm/pyramid scheme/ponzi scheme to me. I have experiences of this from 2012, when I was 18, a school friend of mine was doing a similar thing. But I was smart back then and I am smart now, so I decided to play along. He invited me over to Starbucks, Park Street, yesterday. Now, I have experiences of freelancing and side hustles. So, when I met him I was giving him advice how business is not a short time thing but its a long journey and it's totally based on luck. We were supposed to meet his "mentor". Another friend of his, who did his BTech in mechanical and did his MBA from IIM A, was there, he was giving me advice, how to get rich in 3-4 years. I don't believe in quick money and even if you earn that sort of money in 3-4 years, your lifestyle will change according to this new found wealth and that money won't last long. This is what I was telling them. Now, mind it, these guys are 3-4 years elder to me. And I was giving them advice. I didn't even know that this guy was from IIM A. When he said that, I was shocked. I was like, I can't believe Im giving advice to people whose qualifications I can never match. Anyway, this IIM A guy leaves after 20 minutes and the mentor comes around 5 pm. He sees my marketing skills and my talent. But then he tells me about " Rich dad poor dad" And shows how with their MLM scheme I can earn 3-4 crores in 3-5 years. Now this mentor, is a MBA graduate from XLRI, and was a banker and what not. I couldn't believe, graduates from such premier instutions were doing this. I only have to invest 3 lacs upfront and then hire 10 people and mentor them to hire 10 more and this keeps going on. So, what's the endgame here? Either someone will run off with this money, or they have to perpetually add new members to their MLM to sustain the cashflow and marketing. They asked me if I would like to have something at Starbucks. I refused because I am an unemployed student, and I know then I would have to pay the bills. Those people spend their time in starbucks yet drink normal tap water and nothing else from there. Who are they fooling with their "looking rich" Lifestyle?? One thing that I have learned from the 2008 recession was most investment bankers and bankers in general are Grade A crooks. White collar criminals. I can't believe that IIM A guy spent 30 lacs on his degree to do this now. They are now harassing me over whatsapp to send me 3 lac rupees within wednesday.

 If students and alumnus from premier institutions are doing this, I wonder what the rest of the country is upto. That "mentor" simply asked me to switch off my brain for the next 3-5 years and do as he says, then I will become rich. They were showing me videos of events they had in Bangkok last year and they are going to conduct another one next week. I have been to Bangkok with my own hard earned money at the age of 22, so such things don't attract me. I could hardly control my laughter. I would have laughed off on their face. But I was smart, I nodded and I agreed and then ran the f*** out of that place as soon as possible. I believe talking to them is a simple waste of my time, energy and mental resources. I can't believe these people have quit their jobs and doing this fulltime for a living. I want to make people aware of such scams. Please do NOT fall into such money making traps. There is no quick money or success in life. Also, please have the integrity and character to never scam anyone in your life, no matter how hard the times get. Even if you have to beg on the streets, but don't scam others.

Any advices or suggestions are always welcome. 
TLDR : graduates from IIM A, JU-IIT Roorkee, XLRI running a huge ponzi scheme/MLM/pyramid scheme