Amazon will soon be streaming content from NFDC, Doordarshan, and the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) on its streaming platforms, according to a press release .

The company announced that it has a Letter of Engagement (LoE) with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) which will see the two collaborate on a wide range of initiatives.

The release said that Amazon and MIB will look to promote creative talent in India, create capacity across film and TV institutes, and exhibit Indian content globally.

The agreement was signed at an event attended by Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of Information & Broadcasting, Chetan Krishnaswamy, Vice President, Public Policy, Amazon India, and Gaurav Gandhi, Vice President, Asia Pacific, Prime Video, in New Delhi.

Treasure trove of Prasar Bharti Archives to be on OTT soon. @MIB_India join hands with Amazon Prime. @vishal_baristo @Varun_dvn @apurvaIAS @amazonIN @nfdcindia

Watch: https://t.co/pEAnYTgIqy pic.twitter.com/AraDtEheCv

— DD India (@DDIndialive) April 5, 2023

Why it matters: It is a significant development given the company’s tense relationship with the Indian government in the past over content streamed on its platform. A controversy came to a head after Amazon executives were arrested by the police. The deal not only marks a tremendous shift in the company’s relationship with the state but it is also an indication of how indispensable India is to Amazon’s growth plans, which might make it crucial for the company to be on good terms with the government.

Overview of the pact: The agreement will see National Film Development Corporation (NFDC) and IMDb, Amazon’s rating service, work together to list profiles and skill sets of artists in order to offer them discoverability.

Prime on the controversy around Tandav: It was only a few years ago when Amazon Prime was in hot waters following the premiere of its series called Tandav. The controversy invited the wrath of the government and reached the Allahabad High Court which ordered Amazon Prime Video’s content head for India, Aparna Purohit, to present herself for questioning at Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station after a police complaint was filed against the show. The complaints were from people supposedly offended by Tandav’s satirical portrayal of a student staging a play where he portrays the Hindu god Shiva discussing his social media presence.

Amazon Prime Video officials in India summoned by the Information & Broadcasting Ministry in connection with the controversy around web series ' #Tandav ' @CNBC_Awaaz @MIB_India @amazonIN #TandavOnPrime #BanTandav

— Aseem Manchanda (@aseemmanchanda) January 17, 2021

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event