THIRU.R.SUBBIAH, PRESIDENT(Open court) 

 

 

 

                The opposite party before the District Commission is the appellant herein. 2. The case of the complainant before the District Commission is that on 25.10.2020 the complainant placed an order for POCO X2 256 mobile phone with M/s.Mitesh Mobiles, the agent of the opposite party, whose advertisement was published on the opposite party's e-commerce platform. On the next day, the complainant received a message of cancellation of his order with the above said agent.  Soon thereafter, the complainant received a call from mobile number +91 72087 63639, introducing himself as an agent of the opposite party and giving the entire details of the order placed by the complainant on the previous day.  He further stated that since there was a technical error in the payment gateway of the opposite party, the order of the complainant has got cancelled and gave the details of another bank of the opposite party and advised the complainant to pay Rs.18,099/-.  The complainant budged by his words, paid the said amount through the ICICI banking channel.  Though the amount was credited to the recipient, it did not get reflected in his Amazon user interface.  The further enquiries to the mobile number +91 72087 63639 were unattended by the agent of the opposite party.  Immediately, the complainant raised this issue before the opposite party customer service agent, who provided the details of the agent M/s.Mitesh Mobiles by email dated 26.10.2021 and also stated that the money paid was in safe hands and that the complainant would not be in any trouble.  But, to the shock and surprise, the complainant received an email dated 03.11.2020 stating that their team had provided incorrect information in the previous mail and asked the complainant to resort alternative remedy.  The unreasonable delay by the opposite party to resort to the alternate remedy for the fraud/negligence on the part of the opposite party and their agent, led to loss to the complainant of his hard earned money.  Hence, the complainant sent a legal notice dated 23.11.2020.  The opposite party had sent an evasive reply to the legal notice sent by the complainant.  Though a rejoinder notice dated 08.12.2020 was served on the opposite party, there was no response from the opposite party.   Hence, alleging deficiency of service on the part of the opposite party, the complaint has been filed by the complainant, before the District Commission for a direction to the opposite party, to pay a sum of Rs.18,099/- being the amount paid for purchasing the mobile phone along with interest @ 18% p.a; to pay a sum of Rs.2,00,000/- as  compensation for mental agony suffered by the complainant and to pay the cost of the proceedings. 3.    Though notice was served on the opposite party, they have failed to appear before the District Commission and hence the opposite party was set ex-parte.   Consequently, the District Commission passed an ex-parte order directing the opposite party to pay a sum of Rs.18,099/- being the online payment made for purchasing the mobile phone along with interest @ 9% p.a from the date of complaint till the date of realization within a period of one month; to pay a sum of Rs.10,000/- as  compensation for mental agony suffered by the complainant due to deficiency in service and to pay a sum of Rs.3000/- as cost of the proceedings.  Further, the District Commission has directed the opposite party to pay the said amount within one month from the date of the order failing which the opposite party shall be liable to pay interest at the rate of 9% p.a. 4.  Aggrieved over the said order, this appeal is preferred by the opposite party, praying to set aside the order and for a chance to contest the case on merits. 5. Before this Commission, the counsel for the appellant/opposite party submitted that they provide an                e-commerce marketplace for the transaction of sales that takes place between an independent third party seller and a buyer.  The appellant/opposite party exercises no influence or interference in the said process.  The appellant neither provided any services to the complainant nor sell the product to him.  The complaint concerns a sale by a third party seller and a fraudulent transaction, which the complainant seems to have made by his own will and volition to an unknown party.  In the mail dated 03.11.2020, the appellant/opposite party had categorically advised the complainant to take steps on the fraud taken place and that they would assist him if there be a need.  The complainant had placed order for the product "POCO X2 256GB storage 8GB RAM" 3 times and every time the orders were cancelled by the seller of the product due to stock issues and the refund was credited to the complainant's account.  The person on the phone call had falsely represented himself as Amazon's Agent and had asked the complainant to make the payment.  It has been explicitly mentioned in the appellant's website that the user must always ensure that they are making payment only on the Amazon website/app.  Further in the ASSPL website it has been clearly stated that Amazon customer support never uses any unofficial number to contact users.  The complaint is bad for non-joinder of parties as the seller has not been made a party to the complaint.  The counsel engaged by the appellant/ opposite party had failed to appear before the District Commission and it is well established principle that parties should not suffer because of the negligence of the Advocate. 6. When the case came up before this Commission today, on 18.10.2023, after hearing the submission of the appellant/opposite party, this Commission felt that there is some force in the arguments of the counsel for the appellant/opposite party and therefore, in order to give a chance to the appellant/opposite party, to agitate their right on merits, was inclined to allow this appeal by remanding the matter to the District Commission, to dispose of the case on merit.   However, considering the lethargic attitude of the opposite party in not appearing before the District Commission, this Commission imposed a cost of Rs.3,000/- to be paid to the Legal Aid Account of the State Commission.  The said cost was also paid today itself and since the condition imposed by this Commission has been complied with, the appeal is allowed and the complaint is remanded to the District Commission for fresh disposal according to law. In the result, the appeal is allowed by setting aside the order of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Coimbatore in C.C. No.271/2021 dt.16.08.2022 and the matter is remanded to the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission,  Coimbatore for fresh disposal according to law and on merits. Both parties are directed to appear before the District Consumer Commission, Coimbatore on 24.11.2023 for further proceedings.  The appellant/opposite party is directed to file Vakalat, Written Version, proof affidavit, written arguments and documents if any on the same day itself. The District Commission is directed to dispose of the complaint on merits within three months after hearing both parties as expeditiously as possible as per law. Both parties shall abide by the order of the District Commission regarding the mandatory deposit already made by the appellant/opposite party before this Commission. R. SUBBIAH

 

                                                                           PRESIDENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Index :  Yes/ No

 

 

 

AVR/SCDRC/Chennai/Orders/October/2023