1. Heard Sri Sunil Kumar Tripathi, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Manoj Kumar Singh, learned Brief Holder for the State-respondent. 2. The instant application has been filed seeking release of the applicant on bail in Case Crime No. 298 of 2023, under Sections 420 , 408 , 419 , 411 IPC, Police Station Dhaulana, District Hapur, during pendency of the trial in the court below. 3. FIR of the present case was lodged against the applicant and three others and according to the FIR applicant was doing job in a courier company in place of his cousin brother Vivek and he alongwith other accused persons committed fraud of about 231 parcels which were not delivered to the customers. 4. Learned counsel for the applicant submitted that on the basis of false allegations, applicant has been made accused in the present matter. 5. He further submitted that applicant never did the job in place of co-accused Vivek. 6. He further submitted that even from perusal of the FIR, it reflects that entire salary was being deposited in the account of co-accused Vivek, therefore, there was no occasion for the applicant to do the job in place of co-accused Vivek. 7. He further submitted that applicant is not having any concern with the alleged fraud. 8. He further submitted that even all the alleged offences are triable by Magistrate Ist class and all the alleged offences are also punishable with maximum punishment of seven years. 9. He further submitted that applicant is having no criminal history and he is in jail in the present matter since 31.1.2024 i.e for last almost six months. 10. Per contra, learned AGA opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the arguments on facts advanced by learned counsel for the applicant. 11. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record of the case. 12. However, as per allegation by playing fraud, applicant duped the parcels of the customers of the company and he was also doing the job by playing fraud on behalf of his cousin brother co-accused Vivek but all the alleged offences are triable by Magistrate Ist class and all the alleged offences are also punishable with maximum punishment of seven years. 13. Further, applicant is having no criminal history and he is in jail in the present matter since 31.1.2024 i.e for last almost six months. 14. Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case, discussed above, in my view, applicant is entitled to be released on bail. 15. Accordingly, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the instant bail application is allowed. 16. Let the applicant-Saurabh, be released on bail in the aforesaid case on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- 17. In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution will be at liberty to move an application before this Court for cancellation of the bail of the applicant. 18. It is clarified that the observations made herein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. Order Date :- 1.7.2024 
 
Ankita