Telecom equipment manufacturers have requested a two-year extension on the deadline by which they are expected to complete mandatory security testing of WiFi customer premises equipment (CPE) and IP (internet protocol) routers, according to an ET report. In a submission to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), the Manufacturers Association of Information Technology (MAIT) has argued that since there are only three labs accredited to carry out security testing, the cost of testing is very high. It also suggests that security certifications for this equipment should be done on a voluntary basis.

This comes after the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) extended the date for mandatory security testing for WiFi CPEs and IP routers from 1 January 2024 to 1 April 2024 in December last year and then finally to 1 July 2024 in March this year. The DoT had mandated telecom equipment certification in the amendments made to the Indian Telegram Rules in 2017 . These rules state that every piece of telecom equipment must undergo mandatory testing and certification before sale, import or use in India. The testing is expected to be carried out for conformance to essential requirements for the equipment, by Indian accredited labs designated by the Telecommunications Engineering Center (TEC). TEC issues certification based on reports by these accredited labs.

These mandatory tests are expected to ensure the telecom equipment doesn’t degrade the performance of the existing network to which it is connected and that the end user is safe.  Earlier in 2023, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) released a set of recommendations to promote Networking and Telecom Equipment (NATE) Manufacturing in India where it asked telecom equipment makers to focus on components and subassembly manufacturing.

[Note: We have reached out to MAIT asking them to comment on the reasons why the extension is being sought. The story will be updated to reflect their response.]

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event