Petitioner is seeking the concession of bail under Section

 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 in case FIR No.218 dated

 17.04.2024 under Sections 420 / 120B of the IPC and Sections

 75 / 66D / 66 of the I.T. Act, registered at Police Station Kundli,

 District Sonipat. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner has reiterated his

 submissions made on the last date of hearing that there was no cogent

 evidence on record to link him with the co-accused, who were allegedly

 running a fake call center and duping foreigners, who were based

 outside India. Learned counsel has submitted that even as per the case

 of the prosecution, in the secret information received, the petitioner was

 not named as the said information was only qua one Neeraj and others;

 subsequently, when the police raided a flat, two accused Hojefa and

 Junaid Khan were apprehended, who then in turn suffered a disclosure

PUNEET SACHDEVA statement nominating the petitioner as being one of their accomplices. 2024.08.06 15:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh CRM-M-29846-2024 -2- Learned counsel has argued that both the co-accused on whose

 disclosure statement the petitioner came to be nominated as an accused

 had since been extended the concession of bail by the trial Court vide

 orders dated 19.06.2024 and 21.06.2024. It has also been submitted by

 the learned counsel for the petitioner that since the investigation in the

 present case is complete, further incarceration of the petitioner would

 serve no useful purpose as prosecution evidence has not yet

 commenced, even though charges have been framed. It has also been

 contended that the petitioner has clean antecedents and is not involved

 in any other criminal case much less a case of similar nature. 3. Per contra, learned State counsel while opposing the prayer

 and submissions made by the counsel opposite, has not disputed that

 there was no specific information received qua the involvement of the

 petitioner in the crime in question, however, it has been submitted that

 information had been received against co-accused 'Neeraj and others'.

 Petitioner was one of those 'other persons', who were part of the gang

 indulging in duping foreigners by running a fake call center. It has also

 been submitted by the learned State counsel that when the petitioner

 was arrested on 17.04.2024, three laptops along with two mobile

 handsets and three headphones were recovered from the petitioner,

 which were being used in the crime by all the accused, including the

 petitioner. The stage of the trial has not been disputed by the learned

 State counsel nor has it been disputed that the petitioner has no criminal

 antecedents. 4. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the

 material placed on record. PUNEET SACHDEVA 2024.08.06 15:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh CRM-M-29846-2024 -3- 5. Before proceeding further, it would be apposite to

 reproduce the FIR, which is as under:- 6. The case at hand rests on documentary evidence, which is

 already part of the challan. Co-accused Hojefa and Junaid Khan, on

 whose disclosure statement the petitioner came to be nominated as an

 accused, have since been extended the concession of bail by the trial PUNEET SACHDEVA 2024.08.06 15:51 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document Chandigarh CRM-M-29846-2024 -7- Court. The trial is unlikely to conclude in view of the fact that none of

 the 18 prosecution witnesses have been examined so far. 7. In the facts and circumstances as enumerated hereinabove,

 the instant petition is allowed. The petitioner be admitted to bail to the

 satisfaction of the trial Court/Duty Magistrate concerned. However, it is

 made clear that anything observed hereinabove shall not be construed to

 be an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 8. Needless to say, in case the petitioner misuses the

 concession of bail granted to him, the State would be at liberty to seek

 cancellation of the same.