This is first application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure 1973 for grant of bail filed on behalf of the applicant who has been
arrested relating to FIR/Crime No.263/2023 dated 14.07.2023 registered at
Police Station Ratibad, district Bhopal, for the offences punishable under Sections 419 , 420 , 120-B of IPC and Section 66 of I.T. Act. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is in custody
since 19.08.2023 and the trial will take considerable time to conclude. He further
submits that the applicant is innocent and has falsely been implicated in the
case. The applicant is a permanent resident of district Bhopal and there is no
possibility of his absconding or tampering with prosecution evidence. He is
ready to furnish adequate surety and shall abide by all the conditions to be
imposed by the Court. Upon these grounds, it is prayed that the applicant be
released on bail. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State has opposed the bail
application. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the case diary.
 According to the prosecution, applicant and co-accused persons were
involved in an online bank fraud which was being run by an e-commerce
company linked with ASPER TRP. Bhupendra was entrapped in this e-
commerce fraud and after accruing huge financial loss, he committed suicide
after causing death of his wife and two children. An inquiry was held in the
Marg case and it was revealed that one company named Amaira Traders was
involved in this financial fraud. The investigation reveals that applicant was
involved in operating the bank account maintained in Yes Bank by Amaira
Traders. He also instigated co-accused persons to open bank accounts and for
this huge money was paid to them. The bank account of Amaira Traders was
found involved in financial transaction with the deceased Bhupendra. Having considered the involvement of applicant in the online financial
fraud, which resulted into the death of four persons, this court does not find fit
to allow the bail application of applicant. Learned counsel for applicant has relied upon some of the bail orders 3 passed by this court in a case registered under Section 306 IPC but the present
 case is not exclusively covered under Section 306 IPC, therefore the orders
 relied upon by the applicant cannot be applied here. The application is accordingly dismissed. (ANURADHA SHUKLA)
 JUDGE
 ps Digitally signed by PRASHANT SHRIVASTAVA Date: 2023.12.22 19:54:54 +05'30' Adobe Reader version: 11.0.8