By this judgment, this Court shall adjudicate the suit filed
 by plaintiff against the defendants seeking a decree of
 declaration, mandatory and permanent injunction. Before
 adjudicating upon the issues framed in the present suit, it is
 necessary to first mention the facts as stated in the pleadings in
 the present suit, concisely, which are as follows: 2. It has been averred in the plaint that the plaintiff and
 defendant no.1/Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman were working in ITDC
 and had worked in Ashoka Tourist Service Station, Neeti
 Bagh, Chanakya Puri, New Delhi from 01.09.1969 to
 31.05.2001. That the plaintiff was appointed as Senior Sales
 and the defendant no.1 was a helper of the plaintiff in the
 Digitally

 same organization. That the plaintiff and the defendant no.1
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: That the plaintiff had requested DDA for issuance of final
 letter through defendant no.1 and requested to issue final
 demand letter. However, the defendant no.1 did not pursue
 the matter further due to his malafide intention which came
 to the knowledge of the plaintiff at a later stage. 7. It is further averred that the plaintiff sent various letters to the
 DDA to handover the possession of the flat in question as the
 flat was sold to the plaintiff through valid documents like
 agreement to sell etc. However, the DDA informed him that
 the defendant no.1 and 2 had informed the DDA that the
 possession of the flat in question should not be handed over
 to the plaintiff as there is litigation going between the
 defendant no. 1 and 2 regarding the flat in question; that the
 plaintiff contacted defendant no.1 and 2 and requested
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 delivery of the possession of the flat for which the plaintiff
 Date: 25,000/- as profit premium. 8. It is further averred that the defendant no.1 had taken excuses
 and informed that his wife (defendant no.2) was not ready to
 sell the flat in question, however, he again reiterated that the
 flat allotted to him will be handed over to the plaintiff
 positively within one month after taking possession from the
 DDA; that when the plaintiff asked him about the litigation,
 he avoided the same; however, on enquiry it was revealed
 that the defendant no. 2 had filed a suit in collusion with the
 defendant no.1 and had obtained the injunction order on the
 suit property restraining transfer, alienation or parting with
 possession of the flat; that, the plaintiff again contacted the
 defendant no.1 and 2 and pressed very hard because the
 payment had already been made by the plaintiff to the
 defendants along with the premium of Rs.25,000/- and that
 plaintiff also threatened them to take the matter with the
 police and they agreed to withdraw it from the Court of law.
 That ultimately the defendants compromised the collusive
 case in the Court of Shri A.K. Mahendiratta, Ld. CJ, Delhi. 9. It has been further averred that while the other case was
 pending in the court, defendant no.1 executed GPA,
 Digitally

 agreement to sell, many affidavits, undertakings, indemnify
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 10. It has been further averred that the plaintiff approached and
 requested the defendant to deliver the possession of suit
 property, but they avoided the same on one pretext or the
 other. Moreover, plaintiff came to know that the defendant
 no.1 and 2 were openly claiming themselves to be the owner
 of the suit property, even though they had already sold the
 flat after executing valid documents after taking a valuable
 consideration amount; that, on July 4, 2001, the plaintiff
 discovered locks on the defendants' Delhi house, he was
 informed by the neighbours that they had gone to Kerala; that
 his further investigations revealed that the defendants were
 interested in selling the suit property; local property dealers
 confirmed this, and the plaintiff became concerned about his
 payments. On 19.07.2001, the defendants were caught in the
 house and plaintiff requested them to deliver the possession
 of the suit property. However, they made excuses and did not
 comply with the terms and conditions of the documents
 executed by defendant no.1. That the plaintiff, having no
 other equally efficacious remedy available with him, filed the
 present suit. Important Proceedings during Trial - (i) Addition of
 Defendant no.3/DDA, (ii) substitution of LRs of Defendant

 Digitally
 no.1/KK Shivaraman, (iii) setting aside of ex-parte
 signed by Lalit
Lalit Kumar
 proceedings and (iv) amendment of Plaint :- 11. The original suit was filed by the plaintiff against the
 Defendant no.1 (Sh. K.K. Shivaraman) and Defendant no.2
 (Ms. Vijaya w/o K.K. Shivaraman). By its order dated
 10.11.2004, the then learned trial court ordered that DDA be
 also made a party to the suit in order to ascertain the correct
 position as regards the rules and by-laws of DDA so that it
 can be clarified that whether the alleged sale transaction by
 original allottee was permissible under the scheme of DDA
 and to further ascertain whether the property was in the name
 of the defendant no.1 only or the same is in the name of
 defendant no.2 as well. The DDA was deemed to be a proper
 and necessary party to the suit, thus, DDA was added as
 Defendant no.3 for complete and effectual adjudication of the
 controversy. 12. DDA entered appearance on 15.01.2005. DDA informed the
 court on 11.04.2005 that, as per its records, defendant
 no.1/KK Shivaraman had expired around four years ago, in
 July, 2001. DDA also filed its Written Statement ("WS" in
 short). 13. The plaintiff substituted Legal representatives ("LRs" in
 short) of deceased defendant no.1/KK Shivaraman.
 Defendant no.4/KS Suresh Kumar and defendant no.5/KS
 Suneeta Kumar were added as defendant no.4 and 5, as legal
 representatives of deceased defendant no.1. The LRs were
 served through the mode of publication; they did not join the Digitally signed trial proceedings and were proceeded ex-parte.
 by Lalit Kumar
Lalit Date: 14. The initial trial (before addition of DDA as defendant no.3)
 had also proceeded ex-parte since defendant no.1 and 2 did
 not join the proceedings. 15. On 12.12.2012, the defendants no.2, 4 and 5 filed an
 application under O.IX, R.7, Code of Civil Procedure (" CPC " in short) seeking to join the trial proceedings and
 setting aside of orders whereby the trial had proceeded ex-
 parte against them. Their application was allowed by the then
 learned trial court on 21.05.2013 and the defendants were
 allowed to file their WS. 16. The plaintiff had filed an application under O.VI, R.17, CPC seeking to amend the plaint. His application was allowed on
 05.04.2016 and the defendants were directed to file amended
 WS. 17. Lastly, an amended memo of parties was filed by the
 plaintiff in 06.12.2016, upon directions of the learned trial
 court, wherein the previous defendant no.2, 4 and 5 were
 shown as LR (A), (B) and (C) of deceased defendant no.1,
 respectively. The previous defendant no.3/DDA was shown
 as defendant no.2. Pleadings of the Defendants:- 18. Pleadings of Defendant no.1 through LRs - denied the

 Digitally
 allegations as contained in the plaint and it was submitted
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 19. It was averred in the WS that as per the averments made in
 the plaint itself, the defendant no. 1 had received the suit
 property as a joint allottee from the defendant no.2/DDA and
 the position of the plaintiff is thus not tenable in the eyes of
 the law; that the plaintiff had lost his rights to seek
 indulgence of this Court since he omitted to appear before the
 Court (in other case filed by the defendant no.2) even after
 gaining the knowledge of litigation between the defendant
 no.1 and 2 regarding the suit property; that the plaintiff had
 failed to establish any prima facie case in his favour; 20. It was further averred that defendant no.1 and 2 had applied
 jointly for the allotment of SFS category IInd flat under 64 th
 Self Financing Scheme, 1985 vide application no.004700
 with registration no.001750 dated 08.08.1985; that there was
 enough balance in the account of wife of defendant no.1 for
 payment of the installment of the suit property and that there
 was no need for them to ask the plaintiff in that respect; that
 Digitally
 signed by
 the plaintiff had taken in his possession 162 grams gold of
Lalit Lalit
 Date: 21. It was further averred that the plaintiff has tried to usurp the
 suit property through various means; that the plaintiff never
 purchased the suit property from the defendants and the
 question of depositing the entire cost of the flat by plaintiff
 did not arise at all; that the plaintiff filed the present matter in
 the year 2001 trying to take benefits of a scheme of DDA
 which was allegedly introduced in the year 2011, as per the
 submissions of the plaintiff himself. That the so-called
 receipts furnished by the plaintiff are worded vaguely and
 cannot be said to be connected to the suit property; that the
 plaintiff was superior of the defendant no.1 at their
 workplace and he took advantage of the drinking habits of
 the defendant no.1, advanced small sums of money to him
 intermittently for the drinking purposes at a usurious rate of
 interest and later on demanded huge sums of money from
 him by way of unpaid interest and principal; that the plaintiff,
 being a shrewd and calculating person, bluffed the defendant
 no.1 into signing the agreement by making him believe that
 the same was necessary for getting possession of the flat
 from DDA; that being an unlettered person, the defendant
Lalit
 Digitally
 signed by
 Lalit Kumar
 Date: 22. It was also averred that in spite of being aware of the Court
 Proceedings, plaintiff did not do anything to protect his
 alleged interest in the suit property; and that knowing fully
 well that wife of defendant no.1 was the co-owner and joint
 allottee of the suit property, plaintiff went for dubious
 execution of documents such as agreement to sale, GPA,
 affidavits, etc, by the defendant no.1; that a genuine buyer
 would have examined all the title documents related to the
 allotment and would have known that there is another joint
 owner and co-allottee of the suit property. On these grounds,
 it was prayed that the suit of the plaintiff be dismissed with
 exemplary costs. 23. Written statement of Defendant no. 2/DDA - denied the
 allegations as contained in the plaint and, inter alia, it was
 submitted that the present suit was not maintainable and
 liable to be dismissed since the plaintiff has no locus standi,
 right, title or interest to file the present suit; that plaintiff is
 having no relationship of any nature with the
 defendant/DDA; that the documents being relied upon by the
 Digitally

 plaintiff are having no value and infructuous, as the
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 24. Replications were also filed by the plaintiff to the written
 statements of the defendants wherein the averments made in
 the written statements were denied and those made in the
 plaint were reiterated and reaffirmed. Issues: - 25. From the pleadings of the parties, following issues were
 framed in the present case, vide order dated 27.03.2010: - OPD-3/DDA

 (3) Whether the suit is not properly valued and
 sufficient Court fee has not been affixed thereon?
 OPD-3/DDA

 (4) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree for
 declaration against the defendants as prayed for?
 OPP
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 26. Two additional issues were framed through order dated
 08.03.2017, as follows:- i. PW-1/Plaintiff led his evidence by way of affidavit which
 is Ex.PW-1/A, wherein he reiterated the averments made in
 the plaint. PW-1 also relied upon 47 documents. PW-1 was
 cross-examined at length on behalf of both the defendants. ii. PW-2/Sh. Vikas Malik, LDC, DDA, SFS (Housing), Vikas
 Sadan, DDA, INA brought the summoned documents i.e.
 Ex.PW-2/1 i.e. original receipt no.001750 dated 08.08.1985,
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit
 Date: letter dated 31.08.1998 written by Asst. Director, DDA as
 Ex.PW-2/D6; letter dated 28.12.1998 written by Sh. K.K.
 Shivraman as Ex.PW-2/D7 attaching the original deed of
 cancellation of GPA executed by K.K. Shivraman as
 Ex.PW-2/D8 and original deed of cancellation of Will as
 Ex.PW-2/D9 - both dated 18.11.1998; the original letters
 Digitally
 signed by
 dated 05.09.2000 and 09.10.2000 written by Sh. K.K.
Lalit Lalit Kumar

 Shivraman to DD(SFS)/DDA as Ex.PW-2/D10 and
 Date: iii. PW-3 was Sh. Satya Narayan, who tendered his evidence
 by way of affidavit Ex.PW-3/1. He also relied upon the
 document already exhibited as Ex.PW-1/7. PW-3 was also
 cross-examined at length on behalf of both the defendants. iv. PW-4 was Sh. Abdul Majid, who tendered his evidence
 by way of affidavit Ex.PW-4/A. PW-4 relied upon the
 documents already exhibited as Ex.PW-1/8 and PW-1/10.
 PW-4 was also cross-examined at length on behalf of both
 the defendants. v. PW-5 was Sh. R.S. Mishra, who tendered his evidence by
 way of affidavit Ex.PW-5/A. He relied upon certain
 documents already Ex.PW-1/13 to Ex.PW-1/15 and
 Ex.PW-1/18 bearing his signature at point 'A' on all of these
 documents. PW-5 was also cross-examined at length on
 behalf of both the defendants. 28. Thereafter, the plaintiff evidence was closed vide order dated
 08.01.2024 and the matter was proceeded for defence

 Digitally
 evidence. signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: i) DW-1 Smt. Vijaya tendered her evidence by way of
 affidavit which is Ex.DW-1/A. DW-1 also relied upon certain
 documents which are as under: - India issued by Immigration Department. Ex.DW-1/2 Certified copy of Suit No.178/91. Mark-A Relinquishment deed dated 25.10.2001. DW-1 was cross-examined at length by the counsel of the
 plaintiff. ii) DW-2 Sh. Jai Kumar, JJA, Record Room (Civil), Tis
 Hazari Courts brought the goshwara register of March 1998,
 New Delhi Mauza from Record Room (Civil) and stated that
 Digitally

 as per the goshwara register, the summoned record i.e. file of
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: iii) DW-3 Sh. Sonu, DEO from Office of SR-VII, Vikas
 Sadan, INA, Delhi brought the summoned record i.e.
 cancellation of GPA dated 18.11.1998 executed by K.K. Shiv
 Raman registered as document no.9872 in Additional Book
 No.IV, Vol. No.264 on page no.99 dated 19.11.1998 and
 cancellation of Will dated 18.11.1998 executed by K.K. Shiv
 Raman registered as document no.8900 in Additional Book
 No.III, Vol. No. 111 on page no.67 dated 10.12.1998. The
 forwarding letter issued by Sub-Registrar-VII, INA, New
 Delhi dated 05.08.2024 was exhibited as Ex.DW-3/1, Copy
 of cancellation of GPA dated 18.11.1998 as Ex.DW-3/2
 (OSR) and cancellation of Will dated 18.11.1998 as
 Ex.DW-3/3 (OSR). DW-3 was also cross-examined by the counsel of the
 plaintiff. iv) DW-4 Sh. Deepak Mathur, JSA/SFS (Allotment), DDA,
 Vikas Sadan, INA brought the summoned record i.e., file
 no.145(278)/88/SFS/PA/II. The original record from the
 summoned file i.e., proceedings sheets dated 04.06.1998 and
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: copy of registration receipts issued in favour of K.K. Shiv
 Raman as Ex.DW-4/2 (OSR); copy of challan dated
 05.08.1985 as Ex.DW-4/3 (OSR); copy of application form
 for allotment of DDA flat in the name of K.K. Shiv Raman as
 Ex.DW-4/4 (OSR); copy of request letter dated 01.12.1994
 written by Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/5 (OSR); copy
 of application for acceptance of document dated 28.12.1998
 written by Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/6 (OSR); copy
 of cancellation of GPA dated 18.11.1998 executed by Sh.
 K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/7 (OSR); copy of cancellation
 of Will dated 18.11.1998 executed by Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman
 as Ex.DW-4/8 (OSR); copy of request letter dated 05.09.2000
 written by Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/9 (OSR); copy
 of indemnity bond dated 25.10.2001 executed by Smt. Vijaya
 W/o Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/10 (OSR); copy of
 relinquishment deed dated 25.10.2001 executed by Sh.
 Suresh Kumar and Sunita Shiv Raman in favour of Smt.
 Vijaya W/o Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/11 (OSR);
 Copy of affidavit and undertaking dated 21.01.2002 executed
 by Smt. Vijaya as Ex.DW-4/12 (colly) (OSR); copy of death
 Certificate of Sh. K.K. Shiv Raman as Ex.DW-4/13 (OSR);
 copy of application dated 11.10.2012 written by Smt. Vijaya
 as Ex.DW-4/14 (OSR); copy of request letter dated
 03.03.2016 written by Smt. Vijaya as Ex.DW-4/15 (OSR).
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit
 Date: Director, SFS Housing Scheme, D-Block, DDA, Vikas Sadar,
 INA, who tendered his evidence by way of affidavit
 Ex.D3W-1/A. D3W-1 also relied upon certain documents
 which are as under: - Ex.D3W-1/3, Cancellation of GPA dated
 D3W-1/4 & 18.11.1998, cancellation of the will
 D3W-1/5 (OSR) deed dated 18.111998 and request
 letter to DDA. D3W-1 was also cross-examined by the counsel of plaintiff at
 length. 32. Thereafter, DE was closed on behalf of defendant/DDA vide

 Digitally
 order dated 11.11.2024. signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 33. The final arguments were heard on behalf of all the parties. The entire record has been carefully perused. During the
 course of final arguments, the parties have placed reliance on
 their respective pleadings and evidence led on their behalf as
 stated herein above. 34. Now, let us deliberate upon the factual matrix and evidences
 in the matter at hand before giving the issue-wise findings
 thereon. 35. In a gist, the case of the plaintiff is that he purchased the suit
 property from the defendant no.1 upon execution of
 documents such as - two unregistered Agreements to sale
 (Ex.PW1/12 and Ex.PW1/20), a registered GPA dated
 29.07.1993 (Ex.PW1/8 and Ex.PW1/11 - both same
 document), Two undated Special Power of Attorney
 (Ex.PW1/18 and Ex.PW1/19), registered Will dated
 29.07.1993 (Ex.PW1/16), Indemnity Bond (Ex.PW1/15) and
 Affidavit (Ex.PW1/17). On the basis of this alleged sale
 transaction, the plaintiff is claiming himself to be the owner
 of the suit property and has sought a declaration to that effect.
 Further, as a consequence of such declaration, the plaintiff
 has sought mandatory injunction directing defendant
 no.2/DDA to issue final demand letter, lease deed in favour
 of the plaintiff and handover the possession of the suit
 Digitally
 signed by

 property to the plaintiff; as well as permanent injunction
 Lalit Kumar
Lalit Date: then also, the plaintiff cannot claim ownership of the suit
 property on the basis of these documents. The law on this
 point was crystallised by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
 in Suraj Lamp & Industries Pvt Ltd. v. State of Haryana &
 Anr.2 and has been reiterated from time to time as - Sale of
 immovable property with a value over Rs. 100 must be made
 by a registered instrument and no title could be transferred
 with respect to immovable properties on the basis of
 unregistered Agreement to Sell or on the basis of an
 unregistered General Power of Attorney. Two latest
 pronouncements of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India on
 this point are - Shakeel Ahmed v. Syed Akhlaq Hussain3 and
 Ramesh Chand (D) through LRs v. Suresh Chand & Anr.4 37. In Shakeel Ahmed v. Syed Akhlaq Hussain5 , the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court has held that :- Suit No.608170 /2016 Jai Varinder Singh Vs. K.K. Shiv Raman & Anr. Page-24/36 -25- "...the fact remains that no title could
 be transferred with respect to
 immovable properties on the basis of an
 unregistered Agreement to Sell or on
 the basis of an unregistered General
 Power of Attorney. The Registration
 Act, 1908 clearly provides that a
 document which requires compulsory
 registration under the Act, would not
 confer any right, much less a legally
 enforceable right to approach a Court
 of Law on its basis. Even if these
 documents i.e. the Agreement to Sell
 and the Power of Attorney were
 registered, still it could not be said that
 the respondent would have acquired
 title over the property in question. At
 best, on the basis of the registered
 agreement to sell, he could have
 claimed relief of specific performance
 in appropriate proceedings. In this
 regard, reference may be made to sections 17 and 49 of the Registration
 Act and section 54 of the Transfer of
 Property Act, 1882. 11. Law is well settled that no right,
 title or interest in immovable property
 can be conferred without a registered
 document. Even the judgment of this
 Court in the case of Suraj Lamps &
 Industries (supra) lays down the same
 proposition. Reference may also be
 made to the following judgments of this
 Court: Suit No.608170 /2016 Jai Varinder Singh Vs. K.K. Shiv Raman & Anr. Page-25/36 -26- (ii). Balram Singh Vs. Kelo Devi7 (iii). M/S Paul Rubber Industries
 Private Limited Vs. Amit Chand Mitra
 & Anr.8 " (emphasis supplied) 38. Further, regarding the applicability of the 2011 Suraj Lamps
 & Industries judgment on the cases filed prior to 2011, it was
 observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Shakeel Ahmed v.
 Syed Akhlaq Hussain that:- 39. In Ramesh Chand (D) through LRs v. Suresh Chand & Anr.,9 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has again reiterated
 that :- Suit No.608170 /2016 Jai Varinder Singh Vs. K.K. Shiv Raman & Anr. Page-26/36 -27- conveyance (duly stamped and registered
 as required by law), no right, title or
 interest in an immovable property can be
 transferred. 19. Any contract of sale (agreement to
 sell) which is not a registered deed of
 conveyance (deed of sale) would fall
 short of the requirements of Sections 54 and 55 of the TP Act and will not confer
 any title nor transfer any interest in an
 immovable property (except to the
 limited right granted under Section 53-A of the TP Act). According to the TP Act,
 an agreement of sale, whether with
 possession or without possession, is not a
 conveyance. Section 54 of the TP Act
 enacts that sale of immovable property
 can be made only by a registered
 instrument and an agreement of sale does
 not create any interest or charge on its
 subject-matter. 18. A power of attorney is a creation
 of an agency whereby the grantor
 authorizes the grantee to do the acts
 specified therein, on behalf of grantor,
 which when executed will be binding on
 the grantor as if done by him. It is
 revocable or terminable at any time
 unless it is made irrevocable in a manner
 known to law. A General Power of
 Attorney does not ipso facto constitute an
 instrument of transfer of an immovable
 property even where some clauses are
 introduced in it, holding it to be
 irrevocable or authorizing the attorney
 Digitally
 holder to effect sale of the immovable
 property on behalf of the grantor. It
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 19. A power of attorney is not a sale.
 A sale involves transfer of all the rights
 in the property in favour of the transferee
 but a power of attorney simply authorises
 the grantee to do certain acts with respect
 to the property including if the grantor
 permits to do certain acts with respect to
 the property including an authority to sell
 the property 23. The term "Will" has
 been defined under Section
 2(h) of the Succession Act,
 1925 as "the legal declaration
 of a testator with respect to
 his property which he desires
 to be carried into effect after
 his death"...Will has also been
 expounded upon in the case
 of Suraj Lamp (supra), thus: Digitally
 signed by
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: OPD-3/DDA" - is decided against the plaintiff and in favour
 of the defendants. It was validly argued by both the
 defendants that the plaintiff has sought possession of the suit
 property in the garb of mandatory injunction. The relief of
 possession cannot be granted as a relief of mandatory
 injunction. Since the plaintiff was seeking possession of the
 Digitally
 signed by
Lalit
 allotted flat/suit property from the defendant no.2/DDA, the
 Lalit Kumar
 Date: In view of the discussion in paragraphs no. 35 to 43 above,
 the plaintiff has failed to discharge the onus of proof cast
 upon him. No valid document could be produced by the
 plaintiff to entitle him for a decree declaring the plaintiff as
 the owner of the suit property. 50. Issue No. 5 - "Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a decree for
 permanent injunction against the defendants as prayed for?
 OPP" - is also decided against the plaintiff and in favour of
 the defendants since the relief of permanent injunction is a
 consequential relief to the relief of declaration. The plaintiff
 has failed to prove ownership or any right, title or interest
 over the suit property. The decree of declaration has been
 denied to the plaintiff. Therefore, as a consequence, the
 plaintiff cannot be granted the decree of permanent
 Digitally
 signed by Lalit
 injunction. Lalit Kumar
 Date: 51. Additional Issue No. 1 - "Whether the plaintiff is entitled
 to a decree of Mandatory Injunction as prayed for? OPP " - is
 also decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the
 defendants since the relief of mandatory injunction is a
 consequential relief to the relief of declaration. The plaintiff
 has failed to prove ownership or any right, title or interest
 over the suit property. The decree of declaration has been
 denied to the plaintiff. Therefore, as a consequence, the
 plaintiff cannot be granted the decree of mandatory
 injunction. 52. Additional Issue No. 2 - "Whether there is any privity of
 contract between plaintiff and defendant no.3/DDA? OPP" -
 is also decided against the plaintiff and in favour of the
 defendant no.2/DDA. Plaintiff has failed to lead any evidence
 to show that there was any agreement or transaction between
 the plaintiff and the defendant no.2/DDA. Merely sending
 letters to the defendant no.2/DDA (Ex. PW1/22, Ex. PW1/23,
 Ex. PW1/27, Ex. PW1/28, Ex. PW1/30 and Ex. PW1/31) did
 not create any agreement/contract between the plaintiff and
 defendant no.2/DDA. The allotment letter regarding the suit
 property (Ex. PW1/2) was issued in favour of the defendant
 no.1. As such, the plaintiff did not have any right, title or
 interest in the suit property. Merely tendering the installments
 of the cost of the allotted flat/suit property by the plaintiff to
 the defendant no.2/DDA through various challans (Ex.PW1/3
 Digitally
 signed by Lalit
 to Ex. PW1/7) did not create any right in favour of the
Lalit Kumar
 Date: 53. Four out of five main issues and both the additional issues
 have been decided against the plaintiff. The decision on issue
 no. 2 in favour of the plaintiff is inconsequential for the
 purpose of the present suit. Thus, the suit of the plaintiff is
 dismissed. Cost:- 54. The present suit, instituted by the Plaintiff in the year 2001,
 has remained pending for nearly twenty-four years, engaging
 the time and resources of this Court and forcing the
 Defendants to defend a baseless claim for more than two
 decades. The defendant no.1 and his legal
 heirs/representatives could not enjoy the suit property for
 over 2 decades since the possession of the same was not
 handed over to them by the defendant no.2/DDA because of
 the pendency of the present suit. Thus, the long-drawn
 Digitally
 signed by
 proceedings have not only caused unnecessary harassment to
Lalit Lalit Kumar
 Date: 55. Let, decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 56. File be consigned to record room after completing the
 necessary formalities.