SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Swiggy cheating on customers
DATE: 2025-03-13
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1jaa563/swiggy_cheating_on_customers/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone, 

I'm F(20) from Kolkata. 

Today, on March 13th 2025, I placed an order from "Biryani by kilo" via swiggy which was of 590 INR. I wanted to cancel the order for some reason and thus I clicked on the "help" option and then clicked on "cancel my order". However, a warning popped up that clearly mentioned"If i cancel my order now then it'll incur 100% of the billing amount as cancellation charges". 

After reading the details carefully, I specifically clicked on "NO, DON'T CANCEL MY ORDER". And right at that moment, I placed a call to the customer care where an associate named Priyanka spoke to me. She informed me that my order was cancelled. Simultaneously, I received an SMS from Swiggy saying that my order is cancelled. 
She connected me to her senior/supervisor, but all of them kept on mentioning that the order was cancelled from my end. This went on frustratingly for more than an hour with no resolution or whatsoever. Pathetic assholes simply kept on harassing me by repeating the same copy paste thing nonstop. 

I was completely taken aback since I didn't initiate the cancellation. This is truly pathetic. 

Firstly, the very thing of 100% cancellation is truly a harsh fraudulent policy and is coercively inflicted upon every customer.

Secondly, I as a customer feel vehemently undervalued since my opinion in this case doesn't hold any value. Why bother providing the options of "No, keep my order " and "Yes, cancel my order" if it doesn't work.

They steal my money &amp; offer no refund. What's the point of having such mahaan customer support if all you do is fuck customer's ass. 

Also, today onwards I will never order anything from Swiggy and I've also posted a tweet about it and I'll make a video on Instagram tagging the official page of swiggy and let everyone know about these monetary scams. I'm hungry with no lunch &amp; all I get to eat is scam fraud money laundering. 

I've attached the screenshots for reference. Did you guys also face such situation where your money is cheated &amp; stolen from you? If yes, please help me on how to get my money back or any resolution which can be helpful to me.