Bipin Preet Singh , founder & CEO of  mobile wallet firm, MobiKwik, did a Reddit Ask Me Anything session taking questions from Reddit users. Some of the questions about the company’s customer service were particularly interesting: (questions and answers have been edited for brevity)

Question: From past 2-3 years I haven’t used Mobikwik at all. Once I did recharge of some 250-300, I never received that recharge nor I got my money back, on top of it, your customer care wasn’t helpful at all. Even among my friends circles, I have many disappointed with Mobikwik’s customer service.

Bipin: Yes, I believe we had issues given our scale, but its far better now.

Question: Mobikwik claims: It offers payment by credit card, debit card, net banking, and even cash pay.

However, Payment by Cash is NOT available. It may lose credibility by such false statements.

Bipin: We have a cash pay service where you can deposit cash into your nearest ICICI bank branch and it shows up instantly in your wallet. You don’t need to have a bank account for this.

Our mission to reduce cash and you will soon see more around this.

Also read from MediaNama: Mobikwik wallet users can now load cash at ICICI Bank branches

Question:

Bipin:

Also read from MediaNama: One wallet to pay for them all: Pay with Mobikwik for tickets on MakeMyTrip, Cleartrip, Yatra & Goibibo

Question: One thing clear. Customer Care people really know how to piss off user’s against asking again n again.They will took a month answer with some default templates.

Bipin: Its something we continue working on and aspire to improve. Try out our new Help section with threaded conversations.

Question: Is it true that you folks deliberately do not keep anything like a call center to make more money in this business.

It’s obviously true man. I have seen quite a lot of people who lost money on Mobikwik (while doing mobile recharges 100 rupees). I have lost 1200+ These idiots just have an automated text response to every ticket, that everything is working fine on their end.

Bipin: Sorry about that. Someone is on it already.

Question: Why are debit/credit card payments preferred more over net banking? All the discount codes are only applicable on card and not on net banking.

Bipin : I don’t like netbanking. The experience is very poor and non-standard. We want people to use their cards. Also, fraud is better managed with cards. In general, internet banking is not meant for payments – it is a casual fix.

Question: There seems to be very less information about you.

Bipin:

Question: How are you managing privacy with Mobikwik? I’ve been wary of using mobile payments cos I don’t want to hand over access to all my private stuff. Is that an issue that I need to be concerned about?

Bipin: We have a fairly comprehensive privacy policy. You could see that on the website. We don’t disclose any of your information including PII ( Personally Identifiable Information) with any third party. Your card information as well as your wallet money is saved in secure infra.

Also read from MediaNama: MobiKwik adds two-step authentication and self destruct features to its app

Question: What is the future of online wallets like MobiKwik? Currently, it is largely bridging a need gap – being the intermediary for small merchants so that they don’t have to invest in 2-factor authentication. But what after RBI reduces stringency in its rules?

Bipin: Its not just a two-factor authentication fix. We are bringing new debit card users into digital transactions mix. This is real impact. Remember, India has 250 million smartphone/internet users but only 35-40 million pay online.

Only 7 lakh SME’s accept electronic payments. This is huge opportunity to convert to electronic and replace cash.

Question: Do you see mobile banking from SBI as a challenge for wallets?

Bipin: In long-term, mobile banking does compete with wallets. However, it is hard for banks to compete with us – biggest ones move very slowly and we are seeing adoption faster than smaller ones. We are changing our product as we speak, and tech is our strength – we do everything including client, design, product, infra, security in-house. And this makes a big difference.

Also read from MediaNama : MobiKwik raises $25 million from Tree Line Asia, Sequoia, Cisco Investments and AmEx

Question: Just downloaded Mobikwik and googled you and wanted to ask you a few questions.

Bipin:

Build a strong team and invest in innovation. Some branding as well.

MobiKwik is the only true wallet app IMHO – you can’t do anything without a wallet experience which is very fast. Recharge or Bill Pay is very fast which is the whole idea. You can do any payment within app without using your phone keyboard ! We are bringing the same experience to other apps – try booking a movie ticket on PVR – you do it within its app and no redirects !

Also read from MediaNama: MobiKwik partners with Payback in a bid to expand customer base

Question: One can easily look at the android app code find your API calls and figure out what is happening in your app. Security through obscurity is not security. The purpose of obfuscation should be to prevent people from stealing code. It’s not a security mechanism. At best, it can make it a little more difficult.

When doing a security audit of your application, you should assume people know what’s happening in your application.

Bipin: We pro-guard our apps religiously. Security is something critical when it comes to handling money. If you find a hack, do report to me on my email.

Question: Please DO NOT make your iPad app landscape! It’s such a pain in the ass! Landscape is good for games and some novelty purposes, not for recharging my phone!

Bipin: Getting rid of the iPad app – it’s hard to maintain. We launched it when iPhone app on iPad was pretty poor experience.

Editors note: A previous version of this story cited Mobkwik as India’s first mobile wallet company. It isn’t. We’ve edited that bit out

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event