In a hearing of the Internet Freedom Foundation’s (IFF) petition, the Calcutta High Court on March 10 stayed the West Bengal government’s order to suspend internet across multiple districts in the state. The petition was filed by IFF staffer Ashlesh Biradar, challenging the shutdown order in the public interest.

T he High Court observed that the order was not issued by the right person as per the law i.e. Section 144 Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) under which the order was issued, and insufficient reasoning – both in the order and the West Bengal review committee’s report submitted to the Court later, according to a LiveLaw report,

“ This is the first stay order in India for an internet shutdown,” Apar Gupta, executive director at the IFF said in a tweet following the High Court’s decision. Citing intelligence inputs about unlawful activities, the West Bengal government had ordered the internet shutdown across multiple days in the districts between 11:00 AM to 3:15 PM- timings which coincide with the Class X board exams being held in the state.

Internet shutdowns in India have unfortunately become a regular occurrence, causing a loss of $582.2 million in 2021 which saw 1,157 hours of the internet being blocked in the country. The Supreme Court of India’s verdict in Anuradha Bhasin v Union of India 2020, declared that access to the internet enjoyed constitutional protection as it was a medium to exercise the right to freedom of speech and expression as well as the right to practice a trade or profession.

In the petition, the HC is asked to stay the present order and restore internet services in the affected districts. It also asked that the West Bengal Home and Hill affairs department, its men, assignees, etc., be restricted from taking any further actions to give effect to the shutdown order.

Apart from this, it asked the HC to direct the West Bengal government to:

The petition stated that the shutdown order violates the SC judgement in the following manner:

Orders required to be passed under Telecom Suspension rules: The 2020 judgement laid down that internet shutdown orders have to be issued only under the telecom suspension rules and not CrPc, the petition said. The West Bengal government had passed the order under Section 144 CrPc and added that it was in compliance with the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Service) Rules, 2017 and Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Amendment) Rules, 2020.

Not in line with the definitions of public order, safety, or emergency: In the 2020 judgement, the SC held that ’emergency’ under the Telegraph Act, 1885, was different from everyday emergencies and meant serious and sometimes widespread risk of injury or harm to members of the public or the destruction of or severe damage to property, the petition said. According to the Telegraph Act 1885 – under which the telecom suspension rules are enacted – internet suspensions are allowed in the interest of public safety, the occurrence of public emergency, the sovereignty of a state, prevention of incitement to offence, etc. The West Bengal government’s reasoning of preventing unlawful activities or generally for law and order does not fall under these stated reasons, the petition said.

It further illustrated this point in the following manner:

“The Hon’ble Supreme Court has explained the difference between ‘public order’ and ‘law and order’ by illustrating three concentric circles — law and order representing the largest circle within which is the next circle representing public order and the smallest circle representing security of the State. Therefore, an act may ‘affect law and order but not public order just as an act may affect public order but not the security of the State — for an act to affect public order it must affect the community or the public at large. In the same case, the Hon’ble Supreme Court also held that the maintenance of public order means prevention of disorder of a grave nature whereas maintenance of law and order means prevention of disorder of comparatively lesser gravity.” — IFF Petition

Order fails proportionality test laid down in the judgement: Internet shutdown orders also need to be proportional, according to the 2020 judgement. The petition described the tests for determining proportionality as follows:

Order was not made public on social media and website: The judgement had asked that such shutdown orders be placed in public so that they may be challenged. However, the petition noted that in this case, the order was only accessible through ‘media reporting on social media’ and not on the website or social media handles of the government.

Unlawful orders have to be struck down: The petition said that according to the 2020 judgement, shutdown orders that are not in accordance with the law have to be struck down.

Additional Chief Secretary not authorised to issue such directions: Under Section 144 the district magistrate, sub-divisional magistrate, or any other executive magistrate especially empowered by the state government can pass such an order. Thus, even if passing it under Section 144 could be allowed, the petition argued that the Additional Chief Secretary who has undersigned the order, would not be the authorised person.

The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, in its report on internet shutdowns, provided the following recommendations:

Maintaining a database: The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) should maintain a central database of all internet shutdown orders. This should contain additional information such as the number of times suspension has been imposed, reasons, duration, the decision of the competent authority, the decision of the Review Committees, and also whether any internet shutdown has been ordered by resorting to Section 144 of CrPC, etc.

Selective blocking: The committee recommended that services (like Facebook and WhatsApp) that can be used by terrorists/anti-social elements in times of crisis, be selectively blocked instead of complete internet shutdowns.

Curbing the use of CrPc: The passage of internet shutdown orders under Section 144 of the CrPc had been flagged, recommending that the DoT and the MHA monitor when states and union territories invoke the provision.

While in the case of West Bengal, only two days of the shutdown could be observed before the High Court stayed the order, here are other recent internet shutdowns. The IFF’s petition will next be heard on April 6.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Do you want to keep track of internet shutdowns in India but don’t have the time? Relying on scattered content from across the web makes it feel harder than it needs to be.

Subscribe to MediaNama and get crisp, timely updates on tech policy developments in India and across the world.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event