The Issue 1. This order will deal with Original Application No. 300/2022 and

Original Application No. 288/2022 as both the matters relate to violation

of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 in handling of legacy waste sites 1 in Delhi. O.A No. 288/2022 relates to site at 'Ghazipur' landfill site while

O.A No. 300/2022 relates to site at 'Bhalswa' dump site. 2. In O.A No. 288/2022, the Tribunal initiated proceedings in the light

of media report that serious hazard to public health and environment was

caused by fire of the garbage dump site at Ghazipur in Delhi. It was

emitting toxic smoke with potential for airborne diseases in the densely

populated area. The dump sites in Delhi are like Time Bombs because they

constantly generate explosive gases like methane which may escape

through vertical and lateral ways posing constant threat of explosion. In

O.A No. 300/2022 proceedings were initiated in the light of the media

report that serious hazard to environment and public safety was caused by

fire of the garbage dump site at Bhalswa Dump Yard in Delhi. 3. Vide order dated 22.04.2022 in O.A No. 288/2022, the Tribunal

considered the background of the matter in the light of earlier orders of

this Tribunal in OA No. 519/2019 titled "In re: News item published in "The

Times of India" Authored by Jasjeev Gandhiok & Paras Singh Titled "Below

mountains of trash lie poison lakes" and found it necessary to constitute

multi-department Committee of concerned Departments to ascertain facts

and suggest way forward. Accordingly, joint Committee headed by Justice

S.P. Garg, former Judge, Delhi High Court with members from CPC B,

DPCC, Department of Urban Development, Delhi, EDMC, Delhi Disaster

Management Authority, District Magistrate and DCP, East Delhi was

constituted to undertake visit to the site, interact with the stakeholders,

ascertain the factual situation and suggest further course of action after

interaction with the concerned stakeholders. 4. In O.A No. 300/2022, vide order dated 27.4.2022, the Tribunal asked

the Committee already constituted in O.A No. 288/2022 with modification 2 of replacement of EDMC with NDMC and jurisdictional District Magistrates

and DCPs for District Magistrates and DCPs of East Delhi to ascertain

factual situation in respect of present incident also and suggest further

course of action after interaction with the concerned stakeholders. Earlier orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Tribunal on the issue
of solid waste management 5. The issue of solid waste management was dealt with by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Writ Petition No. 888/1996, Almitra H. Patel vs. Union of

India & Ors. for about 18 years and finally vide order dated 02.09.2014,

the same was transferred to this Tribunal with the observation that

"handling of solid municipal waste is a perennial challenge and would

require constant efforts and monitoring with a view to making the

municipal authorities concerned accountable, taking note of

dereliction, if any, issuing suitable directions consistent with the said

Rules and direction incidental to the purpose underlying the Rules

such as upgradation of technology wherever possible. All these

matters can, in our opinion, be best left to be handled by the National

Green Tribunal established under the National Green Tribunal Act,

2010 . The Tribunal, it is common ground, is not only equipped with

the necessary expertise to examine and deal with the environment

related issues but is also competent to issue in appropriate cases

directions considered necessary for enforcing the statutory

provisions." 6. Vide order dated 22.12.2016, (2016) SCC Online NGT 2981, in Almitra Patel case, the issue was disposed of by the Tribunal requiring

strict compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 by all the

States/UTs. It was made clear that if violations continue, the States will be

liable to pay compensation. Later, the matter was again taken up to 3 ascertain compliance status and finding that all the States/UTs were still

non-compliant in the matter, further directions were issued. Vide order

dated 16.01.2019, the Tribunal directed personal presence of Chief

Secretaries of all States and UTs for interaction to ensure compliance. Chief Secretary Delhi appeared on 11.3.2019. On appearance of the Chief

Secretary directions were issued for monitoring by the Chief Secretaries at

the State level and by the District Magistrates at the District level to ensure

timely compliance of norms as per earlier directions and to take action for

non-compliance by recovery of compensation and recording adverse ACRs

against erring officers. The Tribunal also directed filing of quarterly reports

by the Chief Secretaries. Based on such reports, CPC B was to file

consolidated status reports. The Chief Secretaries were to appear again

with updated status of compliance. 7. The matter was then reviewed on 12.09.2019 in the light of report of

the CPC B dated 09.09.2019 showing wide gaps in compliance of solid

waste, plastic waste, bio-medical waste management, rejuvenation of

identified polluted river stretches, polluted industrial clusters and non- attainment cities. A fresh schedule for appearance of the Chief Secretaries

was issued. Vide order dated 07.01.2020, the Tribunal directed CPC B to

ascertain Compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 in terms of

MSW generated, segregated and treated, gaps in the waste processing,

enforcement of statutory timelines and orders of this Tribunal, number of

sites remediated, and quantity of legacy waste therein and timelines for

completing remediation. the Chief Secretaries of 18 States/UTs appeared

and filed updated status reports. Since there still existed huge gaps in

compliance, further directions were issued by way of different orders. Further review is being undertaken and matter being dealt with in OA

606/2018. 8. Statutory timelines under the MSW Rules are : abandoned dump sites. 9. Vide order dated 30.11.2021, the Tribunal considered the report of

CPC B dated 25.10.2020 giving compliance status in 32 States/UTs as in

March, 2021 as follows:- 10. On consideration of above, it was observed:- The data to be furnished should cover all categories of areas
 in the State - big cities, towns and villages. 20. The hearing on each of above dates will commence at
 10:30 a.m. sharp. The Chief Secretaries may not delegate the
 responsibility. As far as possible, they may adjust other work
 for which long advance notice is being given. In case
 adjustment is found difficult for any unforeseen reason,
 request for change of date may be mailed by e-mail at judicial- [email protected] . 21. All the States/ CPC B may undertake process of verification of
 data after having interaction on video conferencing with the concerned
 States/UTs within one month. The Secretaries, Environment, Urban
 Development Department and Irrigation Department may also
 coordinate with the Member Secretaries of State Legal Services
 Authorities in all State/UTs in the light of background mentioned in
 paras 3 and 4 above for the awareness programmes on the subject." Separate consideration of issue of legacy waste of Delhi 11. The issue of legacy waste in Delhi was also considered in OA No.

519/2019 In Re: news item published in "The Times of India" authored

by Mr. Jasjeev Gandhiok & Paras Singh and titled "Below Mountains of

Trash lies Poison Lakes" to the effect that the said dumpsites were

resulting in huge water contamination. The same were not being

scientifically managed. The leachate was getting discharged into soil and

also slipping to the River Yamuna, affecting its water quality. Accumulation of huge waste at the said sites posed a serious danger to

the environment, life and public health in the area. 12. Vide order dated 30.05.2019, this Tribunal directed North, East and

South Delhi Municipal Corporations to furnish their respective action

taken reports. The Commissioners of the said Municipal Corporations

were required to remain present in person. 13. The matter was then considered vide order dated 17.07.2019. It was

observed:- Besides, the average high level of Residual Free Chlorine
 of208.7 mg/1 (limit 0.2mg/l), Chlorides 769.7 mg/1 (limit
 250 mg/1), Sulphate 228.2 mg/1 (limit 200mg/l),
 Alkalinity 508.7 mg/1 (limit 200 mg/1), Lead 0.2 mg/1
 (limit 0.01 mg/1) and Nickel 0.1 mg/1 (limit 0.02mg/l)
 indicates that drinking water from the hand pumps has
 been significantly polluted and is not drinkable. (b) Table-2 (Annexure-IX) reflects ground water analysis
 report pertaining to 18 boreholes. The average levels of
 BOD (93.11 mg/1), COD (783.72 mg/1) and TDS (6841.83
 mg/1) were found more as against the acceptable limit of
 zero for BOD, zero for COD and 500 mg/1 for TDS
 indicating that ground water has been significantly.
 contaminated due to percolation of leachates from the
 landfill. (c) Table-3 (Annexure-X) pertains to analysis of surface
 water taken from Bhalsawa drain and Bhalsawa lake.
 The analysis report indicates that the average levels of
 BOD (68.40 mg/1), COD (547.51 mg/l) and TDS (4465.23
 mg/l) were found higher as against the permissible limit
 for drinking water for BOD (0), COD (0) and TDS (500
 mg/I) respectively indicating that surface water is
 significantly polluted due to discharge of untreated
 leachates. Besides, the average levels of residual free 10 chlorine (179.60 mg/1, limit 0.2 mg/1), Iron (0.53 mg/1,
 limit 0.3), Chlorides (13119.04 mg/1, limit 250), Calcium
 (188.99 mg/1, limit 75), Alkalinity (1285.96 mg/1, limit 200), phenolic compound (0.07 mg/1, limit 0.001), Lead
 (0.15 mg/1, limit 0.01), Mercury ( 3.75 mg/1, limit 0.001)
 and Nickel (0.15 mg/1, limit 0.02) were found high
 indicating that surface water is very polluted and
 Bhalswa lake is not meeting the criteria for drinking water
 as toxic elements like phenolic compounds including
 heavy metals are present in the lake water. It is quite
 possible that the animals (buffalos, cows etc.) may be
 drinking lake water and as such the possibility of toxic
 chemicals and heavy metals entering the food chain
 cannot be over ruled. Therefore, lake water should not be
 used for drinking purposes by the human beings and the
 animals. (d) Table-4(Annexure-XI) leachate emanating from the BLF
 indicates that BOD (500 mg/1), COD (2279 mg/1) & TDS
 (19000 mg/1) levels are higher in comparison to leachate
 standards of BOD (30 mg/1), COD (250 mg/1) & TDS
 (2100 mg/1) as prescribed in SWM Rules,2016. 3.8 There are various technologies available for treatment of
MSW such as composting, bio-methanation, incineration
coupled with power generation, gasification, pyrolysis, plasma
arc gasification, molten salt oxidation (non-flame thermal
process for destroying organic materials) etc.

4.0 Recommendations

 i. NDMC should do a detailed assessment of the alternative
 technological options including Bio-mining / Bio-
 remediation for Bhalswa dumpsite. ii. Niti Aayog has constituted a Committee to identify the
 technologies in Solid Waste Management for Cleaning up
 of Delhi (Annexure XII). NDMC may consider the outcome
 of this committee's report in assessing options for
 Remediation of Bhalswa dumpsite. iii. In case, capping of Bhalswa Dumpsite (which is not
 advisable as per CPC B Guidelines as mentioned at point
 3.6 above) is proposed as the only option due to time and
 space constraints as also technoeconomic reasons, the
 DPR should be revisited especially to look into the
 following conditions: 9. We may note that as per information furnished during the hearing,
the extent of legacy waste and the land covered by the three dump
sites are as follow: 10. Information made available from Indore Municipal Corporation
is as follows: 11. In-Charge, Member Secretary, CPC B has similar view. Chief
 Secretary, Delhi suggests that a functional model may be preferred to
 any other option which has not been experienced on the ground. 12. We find merit in the model followed by Indore Municipal
 Corporation, the views of Member Secretary, CPC B and the Chief
 Secretary, Delhi. This opinion is also in consonance with the SWM
 Rules as well as the CPC B Guideline on Legacy Waste2 and recent
 orders of this Tribunal. A conjoint reading of Rule 15 (zj), Rule 15(zk)
 and Clause J of Schedule I of the SWM Rules leaves room for capping
 of old dump sites, only in cases where there is "absolute absence of
 potential of bio-mining and bio-remediation" and not in cases of
 present nature where bio-mining and bio-remediation is possible. In
 cases of present nature, both ex-situ and in-situ bio-mining
 options can be exercised according to Indore Municipal
 Corporation, which is not only environmentally safe but cost
 effective. Though plea for capping legacy waste dumpsites is being
 raised frequently as a convenient mode, there may be hardly any
 situation when bio-remediation is not possible. The option of
 capping of legacy wastes, which has huge environmental and
 health consequences, in practical terms is no option at all,
 except for inert waste, which again is to be disposed in a
 scientific secured landfill. According to Indore Municipal
 Corporation, bio-mining as a treatment option is environmentally safe
 and does not require recurrent costs on account of leachate treatment
 in Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP). Furthermore, only peripheral 2 Guidelines for Disposal of Legacy Waste (Old Municipal Solid Waste), Central Pollution Control
Board, February 2019 13 leachate can be taken to the ETP and leachate percolating underneath
 the dumpsite contaminates ground water and water in subterranean
 space. Bio-mining as a treatment option in comparison to engineering
 capping of legacy wastes, is not only environmentally safe and holistic
 but also meets the yardstick of fiscal prudence and propriety." 14. The matter was thereafter considered on 19.11.2019 in the light of

report dated 13.11.2019 filed by NCT of Delhi as follows: 15. The matter was thereafter considered on 23.03.2020 in the light of

status report filed by the CPC B dated 31.01.2020, compliance report filed

by the Department of Urban Development dated 20.01.2020, status report

filed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) dated 21.01.2020,

status report of North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) dated 14 30.01.2020 and affidavit on behalf of the North DMC dated 13.03.2020. It

was observed:- 9. The report of CPC B clearly shows the work being executed
 is inadequate in terms of quantity as well as compliance of
 the environmental norms. Several untenable excuses are
 sought to be given which can hardly be taken as
 justification for failure of the constitutional mandate under Article 243 W read with Schedule XII and directions of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Tribunal, which have been
 dealt with in O.A. No. 606/2018, to which Delhi Government
 is a party. 10. In view of the above, stand of the Municipal Corporations and Delhi
 Government is found to be wholly unacceptable. Coercive steps
 appear to be necessary for upholding the rule of law and the
 concern for public health. 11. We may note that the matter was earlier considered by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court inter-alia vide judgments reported in (2000) 2 SCC
 678 and (2004) 13 SCC 538 directing scientific disposal of waste
 by setting up of compost plants, preventing water percolation
 through heaps of garbage, creating focused 'solid waste
 management cells' in all States and complying with the
 Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 (SWM Rules,
 2016) on urgent basis. It was observed that the local
 authorities constituted for providing services to the citizens
 are lethargic and insufficient in their functioning which is
 impermissible. Non-accountability has led to lack of effort
 on the part of the employees. Domestic garbage and sewage
 along with poor drainage system in an unplanned manner
 contribute heavily to the problem of solid waste. The number of
 slums have multiplied significantly occupying large areas of public
 land. Promise of free land attracts more land grabbers. Instead of
 "slum clearance" there is "slum creation" in cities which is
 further aggravating the problem of domestic waste being
 strewn in the open. Accordingly, the Court directed that
 provisions pertaining to sanitation and public health be complied
 with, streets and public premises be cleaned daily, statutory
 authorities levy and recover charges from any person
 violating laws and ensure scientific disposal of waste,
 landfill sites be identified keeping in mind requirement of the city
 for next 20 years and environmental considerations, sites be
 identified for setting up of compost plants, steps be taken to
 prevent fresh encroachments and compliance report be submitted
 within eight weeks. 12. Further observations in the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 are: 13. In this regard, reference may also be made to orders of Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Municipal Council, Ratlam vs. ArchiCAD3 and B.L. Wadhera v. Union of India and Ors.4 laying down that clean
 environment is fundamental right of citizens under Article
 21 and it is for the local bodies as well as the State to ensure that
 public health is preserved by taking all possible steps. For doing
 so, financial inability cannot be pleaded. 14. The matter has also been considered by this Tribunal in
 pursuance of orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. This Tribunal
 considered the matter of solid waste management after notifying
 all the concerned States/Regulatory Bodies and finally disposed
 of the same on 22.12.20165 requiring all the States/UTs to follow
 the SWM Rules, 2016 after preparing requisite action plans in a
 time bound manner with further direction that any State/UT
 which failed to comply with the Rules shall be liable to be
 proceeded against under Section 15 of the Environment
 (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act ), apart from being required
 to pay environmental compensation and senior most
 officers of the States/Local Bodies being personally liable.
 The directions also include requirement for segregation of waste,
 providing buffer zone around plants and landfill sites and due
 monitoring. The States/Local Bodies were also to create market
 for consumption of RDF. Tipping fee was to include the efficient
 and regular monitoring of waste processing plant, segregation of
 inert and C&D material and its transportation. Landfill sites were
 required to be bio-stabilized preventing leachate and generation
 of Methane, enforcement of Extended Producer Responsibility,
 rights and liabilities under contracts being made consistent with
 the Rules, creating public awareness about the facilities available
 at regular intervals. Copy of the judgment was circulated to
 all the Chief Secretaries/ Advisors of States/UTs. 16. Finally, the matter was dealt with vide order dated 28.1.2021. Relevant extracts from the said order are:- xxx.........................................xxx................................xxx 10. Accordingly, we direct the NCT Delhi and the Municipal
 Corporations concerned to coordinate and execute the work of
 remediating the legacy waste dump sites for enforcing the rule of law
 and protection of environment and public health, expeditiously in
 terms of earlier orders of this Tribunal. Due care has to be taken for
 preventing fire accidents on the landfill sites and maintaining stability
 of the dumps. The Chief Secretary, Delhi, may continue to hold
 meetings for coordination with all the stake-holders, atleast
 once in a month, as earlier directed to device ways and means
 to expedite the pending work, including coercive measures
 against those responsible for delay. The CPC B is at liberty to
 recover the compensation already assessed, with further
 compensation for continuing damage till compliance of law,
 following due process of law. The amount of recovered
 compensation be spent on restoration of environment in Delhi." Consideration of the issue now raised 17. In above background, the issue surfaced again as noted in opening

part of this order on account of media reports of fires in the two dumpsites

showing continuing hazards and failure to take remedial action by the

concerned authorities in terms of the statutory Rules, orders of Hon'ble

Supreme Court and orders of this Tribunal in the light thereof. Reports of the joint Committees headed by Justice SP Garg (retd)
dated 31.07.2022 and 21.09.2022 about current compliance status
and way forward in pursuance of orders of the Tribunal 18. As already mentioned in the opening part of the order, reports were

sought vide orders dated 22.4.2022 and 27.4.2022 in the two matters

pertaining to two of the three legacy dump sites in Delhi. In pursuance

thereof, reports dated 31.07.2022 and 21.09.2022 have been filed. 19. Report dated 31.07.2022 in O.A No. 288/2022 gives the particulars

and status of the site and suggestions for further course of action as

follows:- 20 meters long back and had attained height of 65 meters with
 140 lac tonnes of MSW in July, 2019. The dumpsite receives
 about 2300 tonnes per day (TPD) of fresh MSW out of the total
 2600 TPD of MSW generated from the areas under the
 jurisdiction of EDMC. Rest of the MSW (about 300 TPD) is
 processed/disposed through the decentralized facilities
 (Material Recovery Facilities), (MRF)/Bio-methanation
 plants/composters/compost pits etc. Fresh Municipal Solid
 Waste received at the dumpsite is layered alternatively with
 Municipal Solid Waste and C&D was to deal with the high
 moisture content in the waste. 4. Mr. Sharma further informed that vide order dated 17.07.2019
 in O.A.No. 519/2019 with O.A. No. 386/2019, Hon'ble NGT had
 directed the Municipal Corporations in Delhi to go for bio-
 mining using trommels instead of capping the dumpsites
 including Ghazipur dumpsite. Earlier bio-mining of Legacy
 Waste (Old MSW) was being carried out using two types of
 trommels (30 mm and 6 mm screen size). Presently, 25
 trommels have been installed for bio-mining of Legacy Waste.
 Also, 4 pair of high capacity machines have been installed for
 increasing the bio-mining of Legacy Waste. Since October,
 2019, about 9.5 lac MT of Legacy Waste has been bio-mined.
 Main fractions obtained from the bio-mining of the Legacy
 Waste are (i) Inert (ii) C&D Waste and (iii) Combustible Material
 (RDF) (Refused Derived Fuel). RDF is used in Waste to Energy
 Plant (WTE) at Ghazipur. C&D Waste is used at the site itself
 to construct approach roads etc. Inert which is about 60-70%
 of the total bio-mined waste, is being used in the low lying
 areas of EDMC and also by NHAI in its projects. NHAI has sent
 requirement of soil like material (Inert) for filling up of
 embankments/road shoulders for 50 lac MT. EDMC has also
 called Request for Proposal (RPF) for bio-mining of 50 lac MT of
 Legacy Waste on output basis along with construction of 150 20 KLD Leachate Treatment Plant and an Engineered Sanitary
Landfill (SFL). The bids are under evaluation. RDF can only be
disposed of in the Waste to Energy Plant, Cement Industries or
Kilns. It was also informed that Waste to Energy Plant was
established at Ghazipur in agreement with IL&FS with
processing capacity of 1300 TPD of Municipal Solid Waste.
Presently, it has been shut down for the last more than 6
months for refurbishment/revamping; it is scheduled to be
recommissioned by 10.05.2022. 5. Mr. Sharma further informed that Integrated Solid Waste
Management Facility of 2000 TPD capacity was proposed to be
developed by EDMC in joint venture with NTPC at Ghonda
Gujran, however, the Principal Committee constituted by the
Hon'ble NGT in O.A. No. 6/2012 has rejected the project in its
meeting held on 14.01.2022 as the said facility was falling
under the flood plain of river Yamuna. EDMC was pursuing
with DDA for allotment of alternative land. 6. Mr. Sharma was asked about the measures taken by
EDMC to prevent fire incidents at Ghazipur dumpsite. He
informed that methane generation and high temperature,
particularly in summer, were the main causes of fire incidents
at the Ghazipur dumpsite including fire incidents on
28.03.2022, 09.04.2022 and 20.04.2022. These fire incidents
occurred at places where Municipal Solid Waste was dumped
about one or two years back. 24 CCTV cameras have been
installed and a control room has been established in the office
of EDMC at dumpsite. It had already prepared an action plan
in the year 2017 to minimize the fire incidents and for that
reason, the fire incidents have minimized after 2017. When
enquired if there is any boundary wall or fencing around the
site to prevent unauthorized entry, he informed that Rs.25
crore were required to construct the boundary wall. Due to
financial constraints and non availability of funds, proper
boundary/fencing could not be provided. EDMC has, however,
provided guards and there is one police picket in front side of
the site. In the absence of proper boundary/fencing,
unauthorized entry of rag pickers cannot be ruled out. Rag
pickers generally make their entries from Live Stock market
behind the Ghazipur dumpsite. FIRs have been lodged and
letters have been written to DCP for police picket at the Live
Stock market site to provide protection to EDMC officials who
are threatened by the ragpickers. DCP (East) was requested to
assess the requirement of police pickets at the Ghazipur
dumpsite and to provide police officials round the clock to
have surveillance along with the EDMC officials. DCP (East)
assured the assistance of Delhi Police in this regard. 7. The Committee was surprised to know that dumping of
fresh MSW at the Ghazipur dumpsite was more than the
processed/disposed one. Under these circumstances, there was
least possibility of the total elimination of the garbage
mountain in the near future. There was urgent requirement to
provide alternative site to EDMC to dump fresh MSW. EDMC was
asked to identify land and have correspondence with DDA and 21 Delhi Government for its availability. Mr. Sharma further
informed that they had requested Delhi Fire Service to station
one fire tender at the site to reduce the response time. It
generally takes 30-40 minutes for a fire tender to reach the
site. 8. DCP (East) informed that they have lodged 13 FIRs
regarding the fire incidents at site. During the investigation of
a case, CFSL team was called for a spot inspection and report.
CFSL opined the cause of fire as 'position of place of occurrence
of fire and other environmental conditions indicates that the
fire could not be started due to external ignition but it could
start due to spontaneous combustion'. Investigation of the
cases revealed that the fire erupts due to methane gas and
other natural processes and no foul play or mischievous act has
been revealed till date. In future, the role of human intervention
in aggravating or initiating fire eruption could not be ruled out.
Therefore, to thwart human intervention, contact numbers of
SHO; beat and Division Officer have been exchanged with the
officers of Mandawali Fire Station so that immediate response
can be given in case of any fire incident. Staff of local PS
Ghazipur has been briefed to initiate prompt legal action
against unauthorized entry/attempt to entry in respect of SLF
site. A temporary police booth has been set up at the approach
road of the landfill site. The DCP (East) further informed that
the FIRs have been treated 'untraced'. 9. Mr. D.K. Singh, Senior Environmental Engineer (DPCC)
informed that a meeting was taken by the Hon'ble Environment
Minister, Government of NCT of Delhi with experts from IIT-
Delhi, GAIL, Centre for Science and Environment, Indial
Agriculture and Research Institute, three Municipal
Corporations and Environment Department (DPCC) on
21.04.2022 regarding discussion on the probable measures to
control fire at the dumpsites in Delhi. Minutes of the said
meetings were awaited. It was decided that a team comprising
of officers from DPCC, EDMC and North DMC shall visit the
Gorai dumpsite in Greater Mumbai to know about the existing
Methane capturing system and other details. 10. The Committee was of the unanimous view that 100% bio-
mining of Legacy Waste at the dumpsite as per the orders of
the Hon'ble NGT was the solution to the problems associated
with dumpsites in Delhi. However, bio-mining of Legacy Waste
at the Ghazipur dumpsite is very slow. Only about 7% of the
total Legacy Waste has been processed since July, 2019.
Dumping of fresh unsegregated/partially segregated municipal
solid of 2200-2300 TPD was aggravating the problems. It was
enquired from Mr. Sharma if there was possibility for
extraction of methane gas from the dumpsite by inserting pipes
etc. He informed that a pilot project for extraction of methane
gas was undertaken by GAIL in 2016. However, the project was
stopped as it was not found commercially viable. He further
informed that EDMC has again requested GAIL to study the
possibility of methane extraction." 20. The report shows that the above issues were further deliberated upon

in 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th meetings of the Committee. The report mentions

the decisions taken and further suggestions in the 6th meeting as follows:- 21.05.2008 between MCD and East Delhi Waste Processing Company
 Private Limited. Its processing capacity is 1300TPD of Municipal Solid
 Waste. The plant was lying shut for the last around 6 months at the
 time of constitution of the Joint Committee. It became operational on
 06.05.2022 and started taking MSW at the facility from dumpsite; it 23 did not run at its full capacity. It again became non-functional due to
fault in the conveyer belt. WTE plant has started functioning with
effect from 15.06.2022. Even at present, it is running at 70% of its
capacity. The Committee took serious note of it as due to non-
operationalization of WTE plant, the MSW being dumped at site could
not be processed and has accumulated in large quantity. The
Committee is of the view that closure of WTE plant for long 6 months
for revamping/refurbishment is not appreciable. It has not been
disclosed as to why so long period of more than 6 months was taken
for revamp of the WTE plant; what exact works have been carried out
during this period and how much expenses have been incurred. Even
after revamping, it did not function, and again fault occurred in its the
conveyer belt and it was shut. The Committee called the
representative of the Concessionaire and directed him to furnish
detailed report leading to abrupt closure of vital facility for more than
6 months. As per report received on 29.07.2022, very less quantity of
waste material is being taken for processing. The boiler has not yet
stabilized. As per report, in May, 2022, no fresh waste was taken or
processed. In June, 2022 only 46.75MT fresh waste and 2156.41RDF
was taken and 2778MT was processed. In July 2022, fresh waste
and RDF taken is 4375.305MT and 7568.607MT respectively. It
processed only 20164 tonnes. It is really a sorry state of affairs and
cannot countenanced. The WTE was visited by DPCC on 15.07.2022
and its report is annexed as Annexure C. The MCD officials have been
directed to produce the Contract/Agreement to ascertain if it contains
provision for shutting down of WTE plant for so long period and if there
is penalty clause for any omission on the part of the Concessionaire.
The Committee is of the view that detailed enquiry is required to be
conducted as to under what circumstances the WTE plant remained
shut for more than 7 months and who was responsible for its closure. 70. The Committee is of the firm view that more WTE plants are
required to be established within the jurisdiction of MCD to process
the huge MSW dumped at the site. Presently, around 2300TPD of fresh
MSW is dumped at the site. The capacity of the WTE plant at Ghazipur
if run at full capacity is around 1300TPD. Apparently, the WTE plant
is inadequate to meet the requirements. Immediate steps are required
to set up additional WTE plants at proper locations. 71. For an Integrated Solid Waste Management Facility of 2000TPD
in Joint Venture with NTPC at Ghonda Gujran, land was allotted by
DDA. However, the Principal Committee constituted by Hon'ble NGT in
O.A. No. 06/2012 has rejected the project in its meeting held on
14.01.2022 as the said facility was falling under the flood plain of
river Yamuna. After rejection of the project, no alternative site has
been provided to EDMC. Several correspondences have taken place
with DDA for allotment of alternative land but no concrete action has
yet been taken. It is recommended that on urgent basis, DDA/Delhi
Government should provide alternative land to Municipal Corporation
to set up the Solid Waste Management Facility. The Corporation was
directed to identify suitable land where MSW processing facility can
be set up and coordinate with DDA for its allotment. 72. Recently, the Hon'ble LG has visited Okhla Waste to Energy
Plant. Direction has been given to civic officials to take steps
immediately to increase its pending capacity to fully utilize legacy 24 waste and free the city of the garbage menace on a long term basis.
The plant at Okhla consumes 1950MT solid waste. Directions have
also been given to complete the Tehkhand plant in South Delhi by
August, 2022. The plant will use nearly 2000MT of Residual Derives
Fuel (RDF), in addition to 500MT Construction and Demolition waste.
The Committee noted that the space/facility at Okhla can be utilized
to dump MSW generated within the EDMC area to lessen the load at
Ghazipur dumpsite. After the unification of all the Corporations, there
should not be any difficulty in exploring the utilization of Okhla land
fill site/facility to dump MSW temporarily. Inert disposal 73. At Ghazipur site, at the time of visit of the Committee on
02.05.2022, 58,000 tonnes of RDF was lying at the site. It was
informed that about 60% - 70% of the Inert was used by EDMC in low
lying areas. NHAI has sent requirement of Inert for filling up of
embankments/road shoulders for 50 lacs MT. Around 2500-3000TPD
of Inert was being transported at the construction site of NHAI. The
Committee took exception to it and enquired as to why less quantity
of Inert was being transported to NHAI when EDMC had the contract
to send 50 lacs MT. There was no valid reasons for EDMC officials not
to deploy more vehicles/trucks for transportation of Inert. A lame
excuse was given that due to prohibition of entry of vehicles/trucks
during day time, it was difficult to transport the required Inert to NHAI.
The Committee enquired if there was any request by EDMC to Traffic
Police for exemption/permission to carry Inert during day time. The
answer was in the negative. The traffic police officials, on being
requested to attend the meeting, informed that there was no issue of
entry of trucks during day time. For that purpose, EDMC will have to
make a request to Traffic Police in writing along with the registration
number of vehicles to be used for transportation of Inert. The EDMC
has been directed to take up the matter with the Traffic Police
immediately and increase the deployment of more vehicle for
transportation of Inert to NHAI to complete the contract at the earliest.
In the 6th meeting held on 29.07.2022, it was informed that huge Inert
lying at the site has since been transported to NHAI completely. It is
an appreciable development. 74. Another issue that has cropped up during the meetings is that
no proper record has been maintained at site by EDMC as to how much
quantity of Inert has been transported to NHAI. The previous Nodal
Officer Mr. Sandeep Sharma had informed that 2500-3000TPD of Inert
was being transported to NHAI and it was expected to be increased to
5000-6000TPD by May, 2022. However, Mr. Deepak Kumar, Nodal
Officer, who replaced Mr. Sharma attended the meeting on
02.07.2022, informed that transportation of Inert to NHAI was around
1000TPD. The Committee took serious note of it. Record has been
called from EDMC and NHAI to ascertain the exact transportation of
Inert during the last three months. The Committee suggests that
proper record must be maintained as to how much quantity of Inert
has been transported on daily basis to NHAI; how many
trucks/vehicles have been deployed for the said purpose and how
much expenses have been incurred on it. The mismatch of the quantity
of transportation of Inert to NHAI by two different Nodal Officers is a 25 cause of concern and requires investigation by the Commissioner of
MCD. 75. The Joint Committee has appreciated the efforts made by
Municipal Corporation of Delhi to supply Inert free to cost to the public
at large. In this regard, an appeal has been made and published in
the Newspapers by the Commissioner (MCD) to optimally use the C&D
waste and Inert material for their construction activities. It is
suggested that the Government agencies/Departments/RWAs be
involved and mandatorily they be asked to utilize Inert in their projects
to the extent it is feasible. BIOMINING OF LEGACY WASTE 76. The dumpsite at Ghazipur is spread in around 70 acres. It is
used for dumping MSW since 1984. It has crossed its carrying capacity
long back. In July, 2019, its height was around 65 meters. The Legacy
Waste dumped at site was 140 lakh tonnes. Around 2300 fresh MSW
is dumped daily at site. The average processing capacity is only
2100TPD. The Legacy Waste bio-mined till date is only 9.60 lakh tonne
(6.86%) of the total Legacy Waste. Apparently, the progress of bio-
mining is very slow and tardy. No effective steps seem to have been
taken for bio-mining the waste. Under this scenario, it is highly unlikely
that EDMC would achieve its target of flattening the garbage mountain
by December, 2024. The situation becomes more serious and
aggravated when fresh MSW is dumped at site and its quantity is more
than the processed one. It would take years together to process the
Legacy Waste at the current pace. No effective plans to reduce the
height of the garbage mountain have been made. It should have
proposed a long time ago that future dumping of garbage in them
would pollute the groundwater systems. The Joint Committee is of the
view that segregation of waste at source is the urgent need of the
hour. Directions have been issued under Section 5 of the Environment
(Protection) Act, 1986 read along with Solid Waste Management
Rules, 2016 by CPC B vide letter dated 26.05.2022. DPCC has also
issued directions vide letter dated 10.06.2022 to the Municipal
Corporations. Some interim measures have been suggested to be
implemented on priority by the Corporations till the time
Onsite/Offsite Emergency Plans were prepared and implemented.
One of such direction is that fresh waste be not disposed at the
dumpsite. Organic waste from slaughter house, fish market etc.,
industrial waste be not disposed of at the dumpsite. It be ensured
that no industrial waste/e-waste/lithium battery is dumped at the
site. 77. EDMC must comply with the directions issued by CPC B and
DPCC. Instead of sending plastic waste to dumpsite/WTE, the focus
should be on minimization, segregation, recycling and reuse of
materials. Slaughter house, APMC, Flower Market around Ghazipur
dumpsite must be encouraged to segregate the Municipal Solid Waste
at source and have in house arrangement for their use/recycling. To
discourage such big units to dump indiscriminately, Municipal
Corporation can explore possibility of levying charges/penalty for
dumping unsegregated MSW at site. RWAs be involved and it should
be ensured that minimum waste reaches the landfill site. They be 26 encouraged to segregate at home and compost at the colony level. The
Solid Waste Management Byelaws for Delhi notified in 2018 place the
onus of waste segregation - into wet waste (bio-degradable), dry
waste (non bio-degradeable) and domestic hazards waste, directly on
those who generate it including households. Violators are liable to pay
a fine or Rs. 200/-. DDA/Delhi Government must allocate space for the
corporations to handle fresh waste. Waste processing infrastructure
needs to be strengthened so that no organic waste reaches the landfill
site. FIRE MOCK DRILL 78. The causes of eruption of fire at the landfill site has been
detailed by the Fire Service Department in its report annexed as
Annexure D. In pursuance of directions of the Joint Committee, a
surprise Fire Mock Drill was organized by DDMA (East) to check the
preparedness and response time of Emergency Support Functionaries
(ESFs) on 18.05.2022 at 11:26AM at Ghazipur landfill. The detailed
report was submitted by DM (East) along with photographs. SOP
prepared is annexed as Annexure E. 79. Some deficiencies/shortcomings were noted at the time of Fire
Mock Drill. There was no display of emergency numbers anywhere at
the site; no presence of siren; evacuation plan or map at the site; and
no disaster management plan. There was no Standard Operating
Procedure at the site on how to deal with any kind of disaster. The
trucks were moving in and out of the dumping site during the drill as
stopping them around would have caused traffic jam due to only one
gate for entry and exit. The staff was not aware of the workers and
vehicles working at the spot at any point of time. There was no formal
record about the people going to the dumping site. The staff was not
even aware of the details of the vehicles like which area they
belonged to. There was lack of trained staff for dealing with disaster.
Directions were issued to remove/rectify the deficiencies. 80. Several recommendations made for prevention of fire incidents
were circulated to various stakeholders for implementation/
compliance as:- 81. The Joint Committee appreciated the efforts of DM (East) to
organize the fire mock drill which has been conducted for the first time
in any landfill site. 82. Mr. D.K.Singh, one of the members in the team who had visited
the Gorai and Deonar dumpsites in Mumbai on 05.05.2022 and
06.05.2022 submitted the comprehensive report which is annexed as
Annexure F. The Committee has examined the report minutely and is
of the view that various steps taken at the Gorai and Deonar
dumpsites are very useful and can be replicated at land fill sites at
Delhi. The stakeholders have been directed to examine the report and
explore the possibility of its implementation. To prevent fire incidents,
the possibility of its implementation. To prevent fire incidents,
following suggestions can be considered: MCD has also given subsidy on property tax to colonies engaged in
waste segregation to encourage the residents. As per newspaper
report in The Times of India dated 29.07.2022, there was 100% door
to door collection of Municipal Solid Waste in 297 wards out of the total
302 wards across the three municipal areas - MCD, NDMC and
Cantonment Board. It also mentioned that there was 100% source
segregation of waste in 295 wards which is nearly 97.7% of all the
municipal wards. It was also informed that 90% of the Municipal Solid
Waste generated daily in the city is processed. Another report
published in the same newspaper on 29.07.2022 states that to
prevent fresh waste being dumped at the landfills in future, MCD is
establishing two more Waste to Energy (WTE) plants by 2024-25
taking the total to five, with a total processing capacity of 11800
tonnes a day. It also reports that MCD is also working on small
projects, such as bio-CNG plants to ensure 100% processing of
municipal waste. These are good and appreciable development." 21. Report dated 21.09.2022 in O.A No. 300/2022 is also on the

same pattern. The status of the landfill site and suggestions for further

action are mentioned as follows:- pickers for their entry at the dump-site. He was also asked to
inform about requirement of number of CCTV camera along
with the location of each camera. The Committee also
suggested to use water tankers to mitigate dust pollution and
sprinkling of water on the susceptible areas for methane
generation. 10. ACP (Swaroop Nagar) who attended the meeting on behalf
of DCP (Outer North) was directed to provide all support and
security required by North DMC for prevention of unauthorized
entry at the dump-site. It was directed that the police
department will deploy adequate number of beat constables
and explore possibility of providing police picket at the site.
North DMC will assess the requirement of CCTV cameras along
with locations in consultation with the police department. 11. Divisional Officer, Delhi Fire Service informed that the fire
station was situated within a radius of 1km and there was no
need of stationing a dedicated fire tender at dump-site. He
informed that it is difficult for fire tenders of 9-10kl capacity
to reach the top of the dump-site. He suggested some
preventive/remedial measures to avoid fire incidents as under: 12. The Committee asked Mr. Singh from DPCC about the visit
of team of officials from North DMC, EDMC and DPCC to landfill
sites in Mumbai. The observations made by the said team were
briefed to the Joint Committee and it was informed that the
report of the team would be submitted soon. Mr. Singh was
requested to share the report regarding their visit at Mumbai. 13. DM (North) suggested that North DMC should authorize
some NGO for regulating the entry of rag-pickers at the site.
She offered to explore possibility of deploying Civil Defense
Volunteers at the dump-site for preventing unauthorized entry.
ADM (North) representative of DDMA informed that DDMA
should be immediately informed about any fire incident at the
site so as to coordinate with concerned departments for
immediate action for dousing of fire and to avoid damage to
the nearby habitants/property. It was also suggested to have
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for controlling fire in case
of fire incidents and Mock Drill should be conducted in this
regard. Emergency Response Plan be prepared at the
concerned Municipal Corporation in consultation with DDMA. 14. After detailed discussions and deliberations, following
decisions were taken: VISIT TO BHALSWA DUMP-SITE 15. On 11.05.2022 at around 11:00AM, the Joint Committee visited
 the Bhalswa dump-site to ascertain the prevailing situation. DM
 (North), Ms. Harleen Kaur, Addl. Commissioner (North DMC), Addl.
 DCP (Outer North District), ADM (North) as representative of DDMA
 (North), Sh. Rajesh Kumar, Dy. Secretary, UD Department, Sh. C.K.
 Dikshit, Scientist "C", CPC B, Sh. V.K.Gupta, Director in Chief (North
 DMC) along with Sh. M.P. Gupta, CE (North DMC) and Sh. P K Raja,
 SE (C) (North DMC), Sh. Roop Chand, SE (E&M) (North DMC), Sh. A S
 Yadav, EE, SLF and Sh. D.K.Singh SEE, DPCC were present at the
 site. 16. The Committee visited peak site of the dump-site and surveyed
 the surrounding areas minutely. The landfill is adjacent to NH-1 and
 Bhalswa Diary. It is accessible through the internal roads adjacent to
 the Delhi-Chandigarh section of NH-1. Addl. Commissioner, Director-
 in-Chief (North MCD) briefed the Joint Committee about the site as: 17. It was informed that as per orders of the Hon'ble NGT dated
 17.07.2019 in O.A. No. 519/2019 and O.A. No. 386/2019, legacy
 waste dumped at the 3 dump-sites including Bhalswa is to be
 disposed of by bio-mining using trommels instead of capping the site.
 Bio-mining of legacy waste started in October, 2019. It was further
 informed that the fire incidents occur only in fresh waste dumped 1-2
 years before. The legacy waste is dumped in an area of 60 out of 70
 acres and the fresh waste is dumped in 6-7 acres of the area. Due to
 space constraints, the mound of fresh waste is being piled up over
 and over. 18. Addl. Commissioner (North DMC) stated that water tankers (with
 treated waste water from Rithala STP) and mounds of Inert have ben
 maintained at the fire prone area so that in case of fire, the fire
 affected waste can be excavated out and fire could be doused by
 cutting off oxygen. 19. It was informed that bio-mining of legacy waste was being carried
 out using 2 types of trommels (30mm & 6mm screen size) and
 Kleeman machines. 40 trommels and 4 keleeman machines have
 been installed for this purpose. C&D Waste is used at the site itself to
 construct approach roads etc. MoU of 14 lakh MT of Inert has been
 signed with NHAI. The disposal rate of Inert to NHAI is 2000 TPD for
 its UER-II project. Till date, 1.5 lakh ton of Inert has been sent to NHAI. 20. The Committee viewed the LED screens installed at the office of
 North (DMC) at site showing live footage received from CCTV cameras
 installed at various sites/locations at the dump-site. The Committee
 also visited crucial points of the site where fresh MSW was being
 dumped and previously dumped waste was being covered with Inert
 using machinery. The Committee also observed that mixed MSW was
 being dumped indicating lack of segregation at source. Site/location
 of fire incident on 26.04.2022 was also shown to the Joint Committee.
 It also saw the trommels installed at the site for bio-mining of legacy
 waste and RDF and Inert accumulated at site. Many rag-pickers were
 seen at the dump-site; animals were also seen roaming. 21. North DMC has installed a board in the office at site mentioning
 roaster duty of officers and status of machinery deployed at site.
 Power Point Presentation was given to the Joint Committee during the
 visit. 22. Other issues mentioned in the presentation and discussed with
 the officers of North DMC were: 23. After detailed discussion and deliberation, following decisions
 were taken: Extracts from the report are as follows:- Since then, 25 lakh MT of legacy waste has been processed. In-spite
of all efforts, the desired progress has not been achieved due to
various reasons i.e. lack of stacking space of recovered material
within landfill; shortage of disposal sites of recovered material
especially RDF; multiplicity of trommeling and transportation
agencies etc. The contribution of 10 agencies towards RDF lifting was
miniscule. As a result, recovered material had accumulated at landfill
site itself which was creating issues in operation of already installed
trommels and it was difficult to increase the capacity in line with
action plan prepared by MCD for completion of bio-mining process at
the dump-site. For that reason, all the 10 agencies including M/s
Delhi Municipal Waste Solution (WTE at Bawana) engaged for 36 disposal of plastic waste/incinerable waste have been disengaged. It
was further informed that MCD was in process of calling fresh tenders
to undertake the integrated work of bio-mining of 30 lakh MT of legacy
waste including disposal of all the fractions recovered through bio-
mining process i.e. Inert, RDF and C&D waste. It is further informed
that as the work of bio-mining is presently hampered due to rainy
season, the generation of RDF is very less. Tenders have been invited
and the pre-bid meeting was conducted on 16.08.2022. The bid
opening date is 02.09.2022. 57. About the present status of bio-mining of legacy waste at dump-
site including number of trommels operational, disposal of RDF and
Inert, it was informed that out of 51 trommels, 23 were installed at
lower level on a land area of approximately 5 acres. These machines
were installed at a very close distance to each other causing lack of
stacking space. As the offtake of RDF fraction was less than its
generation, huge quantity of RDF had stacked near trommels as a
result the trommels were not able to function at full capacity. For that
reason, the department has disengaged 23 machines installed at the
lower level for effective work management, to enhance efficiency and
better regulatory checks. It was further informed that at present, 14
trommels, 4 kleeman machines and 1 rotor were functional at the site.
The details of the disposal of RDF, Inert, C&D was as under: 58. It was further informed that there was a proposal of signing of
an MoU between MCD and JK Cement for disposal of RDF. Every
month, JK Cement will dispose of RDF minimum 3000MT per month
from 3 landfill sites including Bhalswa. There is a comprehensive
tender of "Disposal of 30MT of legacy waste by bio-remediation and
bio-mining at Bhalswa dump-site, Delhi." and it is under process. The
last opening date of the tender is 2nd September, 2022. 59. In the report, it was informed that 6 number of HDEP pipes have
been provided at various vulnerable locations in fresh waste dumping
site for release of methane. In future, it will be provided as and when
required. 60. Regarding status of MRF facility, it was informed that an MoU has
been signed with M/s 21 Century Polymers (WME) for setting up of
150TPD capacity MRF plant at Bhalswa diary. Land measuring 2000
sq meter was handed over to the agency on 25.05.2022. Since the
land was marshy, Inert generated at dump-site was dumped there.
Further, the agency was in the process of filling C&D waste so as to
make firm base for the facility. Plant is likely to be made operational
within 3 months. 61. Regarding disposal of RDF accumulated at site, it was informed
that tenders for "Design, Finance, Build, Own, Operate and Maintain
Processing facility to process minimum 1000TPD of incinerable waste 37 fraction recovered from processing of legacy waste into RDF and its
subsequent transportation and disposal on daily basis" were invited.
The agencies were asked to provide GPS tracking system. The
agency, however, declined to provide it being not part of tender
condition. One of the agencies requested for much more land from 1.5
to 2 acre as per bid of RDF which was not available with the
department. Hence, the work was foreclosed. 62. Regarding installation of Spark Arresters, it was informed that the
concessionaire namely Metro Waste Handling Private Limited
engaged for Karol Bagh Zone for door to door collection of MSW has
given list of vehicles deployed for the work where it was mentioned
that all the vehicles were equipped with catalytic converters and
hence, there was no need to install Spark Arresters. They also
enclosed the exemption list of vehicles and exemption certificate of
Spark Arrester. Similarly, M/s IPMSW Solutions Private Limited for
Narela Zone and M/s AG Enviro furnished the list of vehicles
exempted from installation of Spark Arresters. 63. Regarding construction of boundary wall, it was informed that an
estimate amounting to Rs.23,03,11,300/- has been prepared to cover
the probable cost of construction of RCC boundary wall of 4 meter
height along with concertina coil fencing and the same has been sent
to Addl. Secretary, UD Department for releasing adequate budget. 64.Regarding upgrading the existing water tankers with sufficient
capacity and pumps, it was informed that two water tankers of 9000
liters and two water tankers of 3000 liters capacity remain deployed
around the clock and sprinkle water regularly over the dry waste to
maintain 5-25% moisture content. Jetting machines from zones were
also deployed from time to time. 65.About treatment of leachate generated from the dump-site, it was
informed that the proposal was being initiated as per directions of
DPCC. 66.About status of 49 acres of land at Sultanpur Dabas village, 35
acres of land at Narela Bawana and 55 acres of land at Ranikhera,
it was informed that in order to ensure scientific disposal of
unprocessed MSW, MCD was in the process of setting up another
waste plant processing facility (WTE) at Narela-Bawana which would
cater to about 3000 MT of Solid Waste per day. Tenders have been
invited and the plant is likely to be made operational by June, 2025.
As per this tender, WTE plant will be set up at Narela Bawana and
Engineered Landfill will be set up at 49 acres available land at
Sultanpur Dabas. Request for cutting of trees will be sent to the forest
department for grant of permission in due course of time. 55 acres
land at Rani Khera is close to human habitation and not suitable as
per the MSW manual for construction of Solid Waste Management
Facilities. 67. Regarding watch towers, it was informed that once the estimate
for construction of boundary wall was approved, there won't be any
need to provide watch towers. About Temperature Sensors, Fire
Alarms, Infrared/Thermal Imaging Cameras for early detection and
control of fire at the dump-site, it was informed that the proposal was 38 being initiated. Regarding 50KLD capacity water reservoir at the spot
 for emergency purposes including dousing of fire and control of dust
 solution, it was informed that submersible pump was available and
 was being utilized for refilling of water tankers/sprinklers deployed
 for mitigating dust and air pollution. The proposal for underground
 reservoir will be taken up as per the availability of space and budget. 68. It was further informed that Drone Survey of the dump-site has
 been carried out for the assessment of entire area of Bhalswa dump-
 site. During emergency, the DDMA, DM (North), Delhi Fire Services will
 be informed and necessary steps to handle the disaster will be taken
 by the MCD in coordination with the other departments. It was also
 informed that number of CCTV cameras have been increased from 21
 to 31. 69. The MCD in the Action Taken Report also informed about
 constraints in managing dump-site; additional measures taken after
 the fire and long terms measures being taken to prevent fire incidents.
 The detailed Action Taken Report is annexed as Annexure D.

 DRONE SURVEY 70. Drone Survey was conducted at Bhalswa landfill site in June,
 2022. The MCD engaged Caritas Eco System Private Limited as
 consultant to conduct a drone based survey to monitor the progress
 of the process at Bhalswa landfill site. As per survey report, the actual
 site area of landfill site was about 78.5 acres (about 31.71 hectare).
 The MCD officials had earlier reported the total area of the landfill to
 be 70 acres. The site area has thus increased by 12%. It was also
 seen that the waste has reached a height of 62 meter from the ground.
 The highest point being more than 274m. The consultant has
 estimated the waste volume as per the table below as on 15.06.2022: SLF site area 78.47 Acre 31.76 Ha. SLF site area considered for volumetric assessment 76.87 Acre 31.11 Ha.
Waste Volume @ 212 m baseline level 73 Lakh Cubic Meter
Waste volume @ 215 m baseline level 65 Lakh Cubic Meter 71. As per the information given in the report about 25 lakh tons of
 legacy waste has been processed till date. Presently, MCD has 24
 trommels operating at Bhalswa landfill site with 2200 tons waste
 being removed everyday. Presence of rag-pickers, including children
 atop the landfill busy with their work was also noticed during survey.
 The detailed drone survey report is annexed as Annexure E.

 FIRE MOCK DRILL 72. The causes of eruption of fire at the landfill site have been
 detailed by the Fire Service Department in its report. To review the
 alertness and response time of different Emergency Support
 Functionaries (ESFs) in the North Delhi district for any disaster and
 to identify areas for further improvement, a surprise Fire Mock Drill
 was organized by DDMA (North) on 08.06.2022 at 11:57AM at
 Bhalswa landfill pursuant to the directions of the Joint Committee. The scenario was of fire. The report was shared with all the
concerned departments. They were directed to rectify the deficiencies
mentioned in the Mock Drill Report. 73. Several recommendations made for prevention of fire incidents
were circulated to various stakeholders for
implementation/compliance as: 74. The Joint Committee appreciated the efforts of DM (North) to
organize the Fire Mock Drill. The detailed report of Fire Mock Drill is
annexed as Annexure F.

ADDITIONAL SUGGESTIONS 75.When the Joint Committee was constituted, there were three
different Municipal Corporations. Mr. P.K. Raja, Superintendent
Engineer had represented the erstwhile North MCD in various
meetings till 3rd meeting held on 22.07.2022. After unification of the
three corporations, there was change of the Nodal Officer and in the
4th meeting held on 20.08.2022 Mr. K. Kannan, SE (MCD) participated
as Nodal Officer for Bhalswa landfill site. Action Taken Report was
filed by him pursuant to the directions of the Committee on
23.08.2022. Lot of discrepancies in the functioning of the erstwhile
MCD have been noted by the Committee: mined/processed till 11.05.2022. In the Drone Survey
 Report, it is stated that about 25 lakh metric tons of legacy
 waste has been processed till June, 2022. In the Action
 Taken Report dated 23.08.2022 filed by Mr. K. Kannan,
 again the total quantity of legacy waste processed till date
 has been stated to be 25 lakh metric tons. Apparently, there
 is mismatch between the two quantities i.e. 14 lakh tons till
 11.05.2022 and 25 lakh tons till June, 2022. Commissioner,
 MCD must enquire as to how much legacy waste has been
 processed till date. It should also be ascertained if proper
 record has been maintained at the landfill site regarding
 processing of the legacy waste and how the different figures
 have been arrived at. The target for the MCD for Bhalswa
 landfill is October, 2023. As per Drone Survey Report, waste
 volume @ 212 meter base line level is 73 lakh cubic meter. It
 is 65 lakh cubic meter @ 215 meter base line level. Fresh
 MSW is dumped at the landfill site which is around 2200TPD
 (49%n of the total MSW generated). As observed above, the
 number of trommel machines operating at landfill site have
 been drastically reduced to 14 trommel machines, 4 Kleeman
 and 1 rotor as disclosed in the Action Taken Report. The
 Committee is of the view that the Commissioner, MCD should
 assess the total requirement of trommel machines to be
 installed/operated at landfill site so that the huge quantity
 of legacy waste lying at the landfill site along with fresh MSW
 is bio-mined or processed by the target date. Apparently, 41 the process of bio-mining is very slow and tardy. No
 effective steps seem to have been taken for bio-mining the
 waste. Under this scenario, it is highly unlikely that MCD
 would achieve its target of flattening the garbage mountain
 by October, 2023. The situation becomes more serious and
 aggravated when fresh MSW is dumped at the site and its
 quantity is almost equal to the processed one. It will take
 years together to process the legacy waste at the current
 rate. No effective plans to reduce the height of the garbage
 mounds have been made. The Committee is of the view that
 segregation of the waste at source is the urgent need of the
 hour. Directions have been issued under Section 5 of the
 Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 read along with Solid
 Waste Management Rules, 2016 by CPC B vide letter dated
 26.05.2022. DPCC has also issued directions vide letter
 dated 10.06.2022 to the Municipal Corporations. Some
 interim measures have been suggested to be implemented
 on priority by the Corporations till the time On-site/Off-site
 Emergency Plans were prepared and implemented. One of
 such direction is that fresh waste be not disposed at the
 dump-site. Organic waste from APMC and industrial waste
 be not disposed of at the dump-site. It be ensured that no
 industrial waste/e-waste/lithium battery is dumped at the
 site.  Disposal of RDF - The Committee was informed that
 generation of RDF is 3000TPD when the trommels and
 Kleeman machines are operated at full capacity. It was
 further informed that currently, 1000-1200TPD of RDF was
 being disposed through WTE plant at Bawana. About
 40000 MT RDF has accumulated at the dump-site which
 poses danger of catching fire. This situation was before the
 change of Nodal Officer at Bhalsawa landfill site. Mr. K.
 Kannan, the newly designated Nodal Officer for MCD
 informed in the 4th meeting held on 20.08.2022 that current
 agencies engaged in RDF disposal including Waste to
 Energy Plant at Bawana have been disengaged and there
 was no lifting of RDF by M/s MSW Solutions Ltd. from the
 dump-site since 29.07.2022 and presently, it was being
 stored at the dumpsite. The Committee was taken by
 surprise. Mr. K. Kannan was unable to disclose the specific
 reasons for disengagement of current agencies engaged in
 RDF disposal including WTE plant at Bawana. He was
 asked to furnish a detailed Status Report/Action Taken
 Report. In the Action Taken Report dated 23.08.2022, it was
 informed that erstwhile North DMC had empaneled and
 engaged 5 agencies for disposal of plastic waste,
 incinerable waste recovered from bio-mining process @
 1746 per MT on 13.12.2021 for a period of 12 months.
 These agencies, however, could not lift the entire incinerable
 waste resulting in accumulation at site hindering with
 normal functioning of bio-mining process. Therefore, all
 these agencies were disengaged. It was further informed
 that MCD was in the process of calling fresh tenders to
 undertake the integrated work of bio-mining of 30 lakh MT
 of legacy waste including disposal of all the fractions 42 recovered through bio-mining process i.e. Inert, RDF and
 C&D. Tenders have been invited and bid opening date is 2nd
 September, 2022.  The Committee is of the view that the matter needs to
 be thoroughly enquired as to why these agencies who were
 engaged in the disposal of RDF have been suddenly
 disengaged without making alternative arrangements for
 disposal of RDF which is being accumulated at the dump-
 site. Responsibility should be fixed for the lapses of the
 officers concerned and the agencies involved in the disposal
 of RDF including WTE at Bawana for irregularities, if any.
 The Committee is of the view that alternative arrangement
 must be ensured at the earliest to avoid accumulation of RDF
 at landfill site. It would prevent the possibility of catching of
 fire. As per Action Taken Report dated 23.08.2022, as on
 22.08.2022, total quantity of RDF at the landfill was 37000
 MT which is quiet huge and is expected to increase in the
 absence of alternative arrangement.  Earlier it was informed that North DMC was in the process
 of awarding the work of installation of 3 RDF Pellate
 Manufacturing Plants at the site which was expected to be
 made operational within 2-3 months. In the Action Taken
 Report dated 23.08.2022, it has been informed that the
 tenders for 'Design, Finance, Build, Own, Operate and
 Maintain processing facility to process minimum 1000TPD
 of incinerable waste fraction recovered from processing of
 legacy waste into RDF and its subsequent transportation
 and disposal on daily basis, has been foreclosed. Mr. K.
 Kannan was unable to furnish any valid reasons for
 foreclosing the said tender. It reveals that the problem to
 dispose RDF is not being taken seriously. The Committee is
 of the view that whole hearted approach is required to be
 adopted while making any proposal for disposal of RDF etc.

 MCD must comply with the directions issued by CPC B and
 DPCC. Instead of sending plastic waste to dump-site/WTE,
 the focus should be on minimization, segregation, recycling
 and reuse of materials. APMC must be encouraged to
 segregate the Municipal Solid Waste at source and have in
 house arrangement for their use/recycling. To discourage
 such big units to dump indiscriminately, Municipal
 Corporation can explore possibility of levying
 charges/penalty for dumping unsegregated MSW at site.
 RWAs be involved and it should be ensured that minimum
 waste reaches the landfill site. They be encouraged to
 segregate at home and compost at the colony level. The
 Solid Waste Management Byelaws for Delhi notified in 2018
 place onus of waste segregation - into wet waste (bio-
 degradable), dry waste (non bio-degradable) and domestic
 hazards waste, directly on those who generate it including
 households. Violators are liable to pay a fine of Rs.200/-.
 Waste processing infrastructure needs to be strengthened
 so that no organic waste reaches the landfill site.  Lands available with MCD for Bhalswa landfill - The
 erstwhile North DMC was allotted 55 acres of land at
 Ranikhera in 2017. 49 acres of land in Sultanpur Dabas
 was allotted in 2018. Land measuring 35 acres at Narela,
 Bawana has been allotted. Recently, DDA has allotted 8.5
 hectares land in Narela for E-waste Eco-park in July, 2022.
 The lands made available to erstwhile North DMC have
 remained un-utilized till date for various reasons. It is stated
 that the land at Ranikheda is lying vacant and can't be
 utilized being close to habitation and lack of buffer zone of
 200 meters. Public resistance is also one of the factors.
 Again, the land at Bawana has remained un-utilized due to
 presence of high tension line. Land at Sultanpur Dabas has
 also not been used being in the forest protected area. The
 Committee noted with concern about the un-utilization of
 lands allotted to the MCD since long. There was no occasion
 for the MCD to have got allotted the land if these were not
 suitable. The Committee is of the view that the lands
 available with MCD should be utilized properly and
 impediments, if any, should be removed at the earliest. DDA
 has already informed that it was not possible to
 substitute/exchange the land at Sultanpur Dabas with any
 other land.  Waste to Engery Plant - The Committee is of the firm
 view that more WTE plants are required to be established
 within the jurisdiction of MCD to process the huge MSW
 dumped at the site. Presently, around 2200TPD of fresh
 MSW is dumped at the site. The capacity of the WTE plant
 at Bawana if run at full capacity is around 2500TPD but it
 is processing RDF only in the range of 1000-1200TPD.
 Apparently, the WTE plant is inadequate to meet the
 requirements. Immediate steps are required to set up
 additional WTE plants at proper locations.  Recently, the Hon'ble LG has visited Okhla Waste to
 Energy Plant. Direction has been given to civic officials to
 take steps immediately to increase its existing capacity to
 fully utilize legacy waste and free the city of the garbage
 menace on a long term basis. The plant at Okhla consumes
 1950MT solid waste. Directions have also been given to
 complete the Tehkhand plant in South Delhi by August,
 2022. The plant will use nearly 2000MT of Residual Derives
 Fuel (RDF), in addition to 500MT Construction and
 Demolition waste. The Committee noted that the
 space/facility at Okhla can be utilized to dump MSW to
 lessen the load at Bhalswa dump-site. After the unification
 of all the Corporations, there should not be any difficulty in
 exploring the utilization of Okhla land fill site/facility to
 dump MSW temporarily. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY AT SALIGAO (2016-
2021) 76. DM (North) used her good office to get report from Saligao regarding
the landfill site where appreciable work was done. The report is 44 annexed as Annexure G. This report was shared with all concerned
departments. They were asked to examine the report and implement
the same to the extent it is feasible in Delhi. BIO-MINING OF LEGACY WASTE IN GOA 77.Goa Waste Management Corporation was requested to furnish the
information/report regarding successful bio-mining of the legacy waste
and solid waste management/processing facilities in Goa. The detailed
report dated 07/08.09.2022 is annexed as Annexure H. This report
was also shared among all the departments. They were requested to
examine the report in detail and implement the best practices adopted
by them which can be replicated in Delhi. GORAI AND DEONAR DUMP-SITES REPORT 78. Mr. D.K.Singh, one of the members in the team who had visited the
Gorai and Deonar dump-sites in Mumbai on 05.05.2022 and
06.05.2022 submitted the comprehensive report which is annexed as
Annexure B. The Committee has examined the report minutely and is
of the view that various steps taken at the Gorai and Deonar dump-
sites are very useful and can be replicated at land fill sites at Delhi.
The stakeholders have been directed to examine the report and explore
the possibility of its implementation. To prevent fire incidents, the
following suggestions can be considered: 80.As per report in the newspaper 'The Times of India' dated
02.07.2022, the Hon'ble LG has invited suggestions from Delhites to
get rid of the 'unseemingly mountains of garbage'. 81.The Joint Committee has appreciated the efforts made by
Municipal Corporation of Delhi to supply Inert free of cost to the public
at large. In this regard, an appeal has been made and published in
the Newspapers by the Commissioner (MCD) to optimally use the C&D
waste and Inert material for their construction activities. It is
suggested that the Government agencies/Departments/RWAs be
involved and mandatorily be asked to utilize Inert in their projects to
the extent it is feasible. 82.As per report in newspaper 'The Times of India' dated 26.08.2022,
the Municipal Corporation of Delhi's appeal to people to use inert and
construction & demolition waste from the three landfill sites has
started yielding good response. According to officials, in less than a
month, orders for more than 10,000 metric tonnes of inert and C&D
have been received from private entities of which 8421.75 metric
tonnes had already been lifted. Hon'ble LG had asked government
agencies involved in building and road construction like DDA, PWD,
NDMC, CPWD to start using waste for their activities. DDA and PWD
have already decided to use the same. The Committee noted that this
was appreciable beginning. 83.PWD is likely to start using inert material generated at the landfill
sites in its various projects. One of the major PWD projects, wherein
inert material is to be used is Barapula Phase - III work, which
requires construction of elevated road segments over the Yamuna. 84.As per report in newspaper 'The Times of India' dated 03.09.2022,
Hon'ble LG facilitated 56 Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) and
Group Housing Societies that had achieved the 'zero-waste' target and
were contributing in minimizing the amount of waste getting dumped
at landfills. 85.As per report in the newspaper 'The Times of India' dated
16.09.2022, it has been reported by MCD that 28 colonies had become
zero waste areas and 30 more have become "Harit-Mitra". Many more
colonies have joined the efforts to become zero-waste localities. The
MCD has taken a slew of measures to reduce the height of landfills by
deploying trommel machines, offering inert and C&D waste free of
cost, sale of Refused Driven Fuel (RDF) to industry, coaxing the public
to segregate waste at source and discouraging use of single-use
plastic. 86.Times of India dated 30.08.2022 reported that Municipal
 Corporation of Delhi has signed a Memorandum of Understanding
 (MoU) with J.K. Cement for lifting the RDF lying at the 3 landfills. 5
 trucks carrying approximately 100MT of RDF from Okhla landfill site
 was flagged off by the Hon'ble LG. It is further informed that J.K.
 Cement will be lifting 50,000 metric tons of RDF annually and MCD
 will be saving Rs.6.73 crore annually in the process. 87. The Joint Committee has identified several bottlenecks. It has
 suggested various measures to combat the menace of garbage after
 consultation with experts. Some success has been achieved, more is
 to be done. War scale efforts are required to be undertaken by all the
 concerned agencies. The government must make sound policies to
 deal with the mammoth problem. As per report in the newspaper 'The
 Times of India' dated 19.09.2022, MCD is unlikely to meet its deadline
 for five waste plants. MCD's proposal to expand the daily incineration
 capacity of the Okhla plant from 1950 tons to 2950 tons has been
 rejected by an expert appraisal Committee constituted by the Union
 Environment Ministry. The Corporation has also shifted the deadline
 for completing the Tehkhand Project by a month to October end.
 Sincere and earnest efforts are required to deal with the mammoth
 problem which seems unresolved at present. Some plans made earlier
 have been foreclosed/abandoned and no effective alternative
 arrangements have been made. Possibility of aggravating the problem
 at Bhalswa landfill site cannot be ruled out. Steps taken so far are not
 adequate." Response of Delhi Government to the observations in the reports 23. The Delhi Government has filed its response to the two reports with

reference to the observations in the report and also mentions prospective

action plan. Relevant extracts from the said response are as follows:- Quantity of segregated materials expected to be generated
 after complete Bio-mining of Legacy Waste at the three
 Dumpsites in Delhi are given in the following Table: c) Tenders have been invited by MCD on 03.08.2022 for
 "Disposal of 30 Lakh MT of legacy waste by bio- remediation and bio-mining at Bhalswa Dumpsite, Delhi" The said facility including Waste to Energy Plant at
 Bawana is being operated by M/s Delhi MSW Solutions
 Ltd. The WtE Plant was earlier lifting RDF from bio-mining
 of legacy waste at Bhalswa Dumpsite however M/s Delhi
 MSW Solutions Ltd has stopped lifting RDF from Bhalswa
 Dumpsite from 23.07.2022 as per the instructions from
 MCD. A new Waste to Energy Plant of 3000 TPD is proposed at
 Narela -Bawana for which bid opening is due on
 14.10.2022. A new Waste to Energy Plant of 2000 TPD
 capacity at Tehkhand is likely to be operational by
 November, 2022. (iv) Disposal of Inert

 The inert material generated from the Bio-mining of Legacy
 Waste at the Bhalswa Dumpsite is disposed of by MCD at
 NHAI sites (Holambi Kalan, Helipot, DDA Site in front of
 Kalimata Mandir land, Madanpur Dabas, Ghogha Dairy,
 Bhalswa Dairy) and other low-lying areas. Month wise details of Inert disposed of in the last two months are
as under: - Record is being maintained at the site regarding the quantity
 of material disposed of to NHAI & other sites. The progress
 of work was hampered in July and August, 2022 due to
 rainy season. An appeal has been made by MCD and published in the
 Newspapers for utilization of Inert Material generated from
 the Bio-mining of Legacy Waste. And so far, around 18000
 MT of inert and C&D waste has been lifted by Private
 Agencies/individuals at their own cost. The bio-mined inert material will continue to be disposed of
 at NHAI sites Holambi Kalan, Helipot, DDA site: In front of
 Kalimata Mandir land and other low-lying areas. Disposal of Construction & Demolition Waste
 Generated from Bio-mining of Legacy Waste

 Construction and Demolition Waste which is 10-15% of the
 total Bio-mined Legacy Waste is utilised at the Dumpsite
 in making roads for the movement of vehicles. (v) Prevention of Fire Incidents

 a RCC Boundary Wall

 Presently there is no boundary wall around the periphery
 of the Dumpsite. An estimate amounting to about Rs. 23
 Crores has been prepared for construction of RCC
 Boundary Wall of 04 meter height along with concertina
 coil fencing and the same has been sent to Urban
 Development Department, GNCTD for releasing requisite
 budget. b Installation of Spark Arrestors. (i) The concessioner namely M/s Metro Waste Handling Pvt.
 Ltd., engaged for Karol Bagh Zone for door to door
 collection of MSW has given the list of vehicles deployed
 for the work where it is mentioned that all the vehicles
 are equipped with catalytic convertor, hence no need to
 install spark arrestor and has provided the exempt list of
 spark arrestor vehicles alongwith exemption certificate. (ii) The concessioner namely M/s IPMSW Solutions Pvt. Ltd. for Narela Zone informed that all their vehicles are BSVI
 model and are equipped with catalytic convertor which
 prevent fire incident. Therefore, there is no need to install
 spark arrestor. The list of exempted vehicles has been
 provided by MCD. (iii) The concessioner namely M/s AG Enviro informed that
 their vehicles are equipped with catalytic convertor,
 hence no need to install spark arrestor. The list of
 exempted vehicles has been provided by MCD. c Perforated Pipes for Release of Methane

 06 No. of HDPE pipes have been provided at various
 vulnerable locations in fresh waste dumping site. In
 future it will be provided as and when required. d. CO Monitors, Methane Detectors, Temperature
Sensors & Fire Alarm

 For checking the temperature of the inner surface of the
 Dumpsite at vulnerable locations, 03 No. temperature
 sensors are being procured. e. CCTV Cameras

 The number of CCTV Cameras installed have been
 increased from 21 to 31 and dedicated Control Room has
 also been provided at the Dumpsite. f. Drone Survey of Bhalswa Dumpsite

 Drone Survey of the Bhalswa Dumpsite has been carried
 out and the report has been submitted by the surveyor
 on June 2022. SLF site area is 78.47 Acres (31.76
 Hectares) as per the survey report. SLF site area
 considered for volumetric assessment is 76.87 acres
 (31.11 Hectares). The contours of the landfill along with
 slopes analysis details have been given in the report. At
 212 meter baseline level, waste volume is 73.0 Lakh
 Cubic meters as on 15.06.2022. Maximum Height is 62
 meters from the ground. g. Slope Stability to Prevent Landslide: MCD is stabilizing the garbage dump by doing step
 cutting and maintaining slopes at regular interval of
 height. The garbage is regularly dressed and compacted
 by laying a layer of C&D waste / debris on the garbage
 with helps of Heavy Earth moving machine. a. Mock Drill at the Bhalswa Dumpsite

 To sensitize the site staff at Bhalswa Dump site, a fire
 mock drill was conducted on 08.06.2022 by Delhi
 Disaster Management Authority and the instructions 52 during the mock drill are being complied with by the field
 officers. b. Authorization of Ragpickers: c. Construction of Peripheral Road

 Peripheral Road is already available around Bhalswa
 Dumpsite. d. Surveillance Squad/ Patrolling Team

  Patrolling team has been formed by MCD to have strict
 vigil over the activities going on at the Bhalswa
 Dumpsite. 30 Civil Defense Volunteers have also been
 engaged for the surveillance of Dumpsite.  Beat Constables have been deployed by Delhi Police
 for taking rounds of the Dumpsite. e. Lack of Land Availability for MSW Processing
Facilities Alternative

  55 Acres Land at Ranikhera had been allotted by DDA
 to North DMC in 2017 however the said land is close to
 human habitation and not suitable as per the MSW
 manual for construction of Solid Waste Management
 Facilities (Buffer zone of about 200 meter is required
 which is difficult to provide).  About 33 Acres land at Narela -Bawana is available
 near the existing Waste to Energy Plant at Bawana
 however there is issue of High Tension Line passing
 above the land. This land is proposed to be used for
 3000 TPD Waste to Energy Plant.  49 Acres land at Sultanpur Dabas Village was allotted
 by DDA in 2018. However the said land is a protected
 forest land and having a large number of grown up
 trees, bushes etc. This land is proposed to be used for
 developing Engineered Sanitary Landfill (SLF). f. Training of MCD Staff 53 A three day's training programme was organised by
 NDRF to the MCD Staff (One Batch per day). NDRF has
 provided training to 250 MCD staff till date. Further
 request has also been made to Delhi Fire Service for
 training programs. On other issues mentioned in the Interim Progress Report
 of Joint Committee, Action Taken by MCD and
 Prospective Action Plan is briefed in following table: operation at the time of Further 10 trommels remediation of
 conduct of Drone Survey machines in Aug 2022 Legacy waste and
 in June, 2022 and how were disengaged after disposal/
 many trommels machines approval of the transportation of
 were in operation in the competent authority due segregated material
 last week of July, 2022 to low performance of by same agency. site. It is ensured that no the remaining approx. utilization of Inert and materials ie RDF,
 C&D material INERT,C&D in 18
 generated from _ the months' time by
 Bio-mining of Legacy same agency and
 Waste. Around 19000 reducing the
 MT of inert and C&D quantity and height
 waste has been lifted of garbage in all in
 by Private time bound manner. Agencies/individuals
 at their own cost. 12 Relevant document to find Drone Survey of the
 exact area of landfill to Bhalswa Dumpsite
 make proper future plans has been carried out
 for removal of legacy and the report has --- Solid Waste Management Facility at Saligao

 To examine the report and The report shall be
1 implement the same to the studied and norms will --- extent it is feasible in be taken. Delhi. 6. Operational Waste to Energy Plants & Integrated Solid Waste
 Management Facilities, Gap Analysis on Solid Waste Management
 and proposed Waste Processing & Disposal Facilities in Delhi are
 given in following tables : Tribunal's Observations, findings and directions 24. We have interacted with the Chief Secretary, Delhi who is present by

 video conferencing along with other concerned officers including the

 Commissioner, MCD. 25. Questions which arise for consideration are: 26. With regard to questions (i) and (ii), it is seen that as per response

of the Delhi Government itself, legacy waste bio-mined till 29.09.2022 is

only to the extent of 21.08%. Thus, 78.92 or around 80% of legacy waste

at the three dumpsites remains un-remediated. Unprocessed waste

available is said to be about 220 lac MTs. Apart from the said waste, gap

in waste generation and treatment is said to be 5996 MTD and on that

account there is addition of 66 lakhs MTs in the last three years. Further

addition is continuing. However, the Committee has found that only 7%

legacy waste has been processed at Ghazipur since 2019. We assess the

quantity of legacy waste at 300 lakh MTs. 27. We have noted the earlier orders of this Tribunal, including orders

dated 11.03.2019 in OA 606/2018 and dated 17th July, 2019 in OA

519/2019, passed in the presence Chief Secretary, Delhi. Report of CPC B

dated 12.2.2020 based on expert study found that damage of about Rs.450

crore had been caused to the environment and public health till the said

report was submitted and further damage was continuing. As seen from

para 15 above, monitoring of compliance of solid waste norms has been

taking place in the last 26 years, for about 18 years in Supreme Court and

9 years in this Tribunal. We have noted orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court

in (2000) 2 SCC 679 and (2004) 13 SCC 538 in Almitra Patel requiring

compliance and (1980) 4 SCC 162, in Ratlam Municipality laying down that

lack of funds cannot be a plea in such matter. Further judgement in BL

Wadhera (1996) 2 SCC 594 is in respect of handling waste in Delhi. This

was followed by order dated 2.9.2014 in Almitra Patel WP 888/1996,

directing this Tribunal to continue further monitoring. 28. The Tribunal passed further orders dated 22.12.2016 and 11.3.2019

to follow statutory timelines. The statutory deadline for final steps for 64 remediation of legacy waste expired on 07.04.2021 as per Rule 22 N of the

Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Action required has not been

completed. Apart from huge un-remediated legacy waste, there is gap even

in processing of current waste generation. Para 6 of the report for Ghazipur

shows that plea of the authorities is that it is unable to spend Rs. 25 crore

for fencing/constructing wall around the dump site which is very essential,

even though a sum of Rs.250 crore was deposited earlier in July 2019

under orders of this Tribunal. Vide order dated 30.11.2021, in OA

606/2018, the Tribunal noted continuing harmful impact of waste

generating foul and toxic gases, contaminating ground water and affecting

health of population in thickly populated area around the dump sites. Vide

order dated 28.1.2021, direction to explore setting up of SPV for the

purpose was directed which appears to have remained uncomplied. 29. The above undisputed factual scenario presents a grim picture and

environmental emergency in the national capital. There is continuous

emission of methane and other harmful gasses adding to already polluted

air quality of Delhi. It is also continuously resulting in leachate generation

contaminating ground water of Delhi. Health and safety of huge population

in the vicinity of dump sites is seriously threatened. Even chances of fires

in future continue. Such serious environmental hazard needs to be dealt

with on war footing by any responsible administration. Needless to repeat

the hazardous consequences of accumulated and unscientifically stored

huge quantum of garbage which are 'mountains'. Even minimum

safeguards against repeated fires are not adopted. To maintain aesthetics

in the national capital and to avoid foul smell, garbage dumps need to be

covered/fenced. The media has rightly reported that the dump sites are

like 'time bombs'. Lives and health of inhabitants in the vicinity is certainly

at serious threat. Damage to the environment is real and serious. Thus, 65 citizens living in close proximity of the three sites are exposed to health

 hazard. The smoke and foul smell from these sites results in poor visibility

 and asphyxiating the contiguous area. There are continuing media reports

 about ill-effects of unscientific handling of the legacy waste dump sites to

 the detriment of environment and public health.6 30. Huge scarce and costly public land is occupied by the waste

 dump site. The area is 152 acres and its price even at conservative

 rate is more than Rs.10000 crores at applicable circle rate. However,

 the market value may be much more. There is thus urgency to retrieve

 the said public asset for the beneficial public use. 31. We thus conclude that there is serious violation of rights of

 citizens and failure of public trust doctrine to protect environment

 and public health by the concerned authorities, including the Delhi

 Government and the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Steps taken so

 far do not meet the mandate of law and are not commensurate to the

 grim factual emergency situation constantly threatening safety and

 health of citizens and the environment with no accountability of

 officers entrusted the task. This is in breach of constitutional and

 human rights of citizens of Delhi who are forced to breathe polluted

 air, accept contaminated water and face other health and safety

 hazards. Emergency measures are called for to remedy the situation

 with a new and sensitive approach in a mission mode, reviewing the

 past failures in the entirety of situation and with involvement of

 higher level dedicated officers. The report shows that so far work has

 been delegated to lower rank officers who have not been adequately 6 https://ndtv.in/delhi-ncr-news/when-will-the-government-be-serious-about-waste-management-mountains-of-
garbage-are-being-built-in-delhi-3400137 66 able to handle the situation. We answer questions (i) and (ii)

accordingly. 32. Coming to question (iii), we are of the view that remedial action needs

to be taken as per Rules and norms and orders of Hon'ble Supreme Court

and this Tribunal, as already mentioned. Recommendations in the two

reports of the Committee need to be accepted and followed as no objection

has been raised thereto. Accountability of the State authorities for past

violation needs to be fixed on polluter pays principle, consistent with orders

of this Tribunal dealing with such failures elsewhere. The Tribunal has to

follow the 'polluter pays' principle as mandated in Vellore Citizens (1996)

5 SCC 647 and under section 20 NGT Act read with section 15 . 33. As already mentioned, report filed by CPC B on 13.02.2020 in O.A.

No. 519 of 2019 shows the extent of loss to the environment in monetary

terms. For ready reference, observations from the report are quoted below:- Overall increase in Iron and COD levels
 observed with increase in distance from the
 dumpsites, indicating, marginal impact on
 ground water quality due to dumpsite within
 5 km distance from dumpsite
  Ground water outside 5 km radius have
 reported higher value of COD & Fe than
 stations located within 5 km radius,
 indicating minimal impact of dumpsite on
 ground water quality. Local factors are
 contributing in deterioration in water
 quality at these stations
  As several sources of water pollution including
 open drains observed in these regions, actual
 impact of the local sources as well as that of
 the dumpsite can be confirmed based on the
 hydrogeology of the region and contaminant
 transport modelling

ix. There are currently 37 Continuous Air Quality
 monitoring locations in Delhi, of which 10 are located
 within a distance of 5 km from the dumpsites. x. Range in variation in PM2.5 & PM10, NOx &
 Benzene concentration levels within 5 km overlaps
 the range observed for stations located at distance
 greater than 5 km from dumpsites. Fluctuating
 trend is observed in NOx /Benzene concentration
 levels vis-a-vis distance from the dumpsite. xi. Several local factors such as drains, road dust,
 vehicular pollution, C&D waste etc. also contribute
 towards air & water pollution in the region. As per analysis of air and water quality carried
 out, deterioration in environmental quality cannot
 be attributed directly to the various activities
 happening at the dumpsites. As further detailed
 investigations are required to assess actual
 impact of the dumpsite related activities on 69 the environment (air, water & soil quality),
 interim cost of damage to environment is
 based on the Environmental Compensation to
 be levied for violation of Solid Waste
 Management Rules, 2016. Cost of damage to
 environment has been calculated based on the
 Environmental Compensation to be levied for
 violation of Solid Waste Management Rules and
 has been assessed as Rs.155.9 Crore (for
 Bhalswa), Rs. 142.5 Crore (for Ghazipur) and
 Rs. 151.1 Crore (for Okhla). xii. Source apportionment studies are required to assess
 the actual impact of air pollution sources at dumpsite
 on air quality in the region. xiii. Detailed hydrogeological investigations and
 containment transport modelling is required to
 assess the impact of dumpsites on surface / ground
 water." Quantum of compensation payable by authorities 34. Coming to the quantum of compensation, the Tribunal has

 consistently held that it has to be approximately equal to cost of restoration

 which has been assessed at Rs. 300 per MT of waste.7 The CPC B report

 dated 13.2.2020 quoted earlier shows that damage of Rs. 450 crores in

 monetary terms has already taken place. 35. Following the pattern adopted in respect of other States, we hold the

 NCT of Delhi liable to pay environmental compensation of Rs. 900 Crores

 having regard to the quantity of undisposed waste which is to the extent of

 3 crore MTs at three landfill sites. This amount has to be used for

 restoration measures to recover the land which is of ten times the value. Any delay and even proposed timeline extending upto the end of year 2023

 is detrimental to public interest. The timelines are required to be

 compressed and credible service providers hired who can produce quick

 results. Plea of the State that non availability of funds is limiting factor

 even for construction of protection walls around the dumpsites has to be

 rejected. Tackling such serious emergency has to be the top priority of the

 authorities under the Constitutional scheme. Availability of funds could

 have been ensured by suitable planning particularly when cost involved is

 about 10 percent of value of land involved and tackling such problem will

 benefit public at large and the environment. Citizens cannot be faced with

 emergency situation due to lack of governance. 36. The amount may be placed in a ring-fenced account to be operated

 under the directions of the Chief Secretary, Delhi for restoration of

 environment by remediation of waste and other measures. The deposit may

 be made within one month which will be abide by further directions of a

 monitoring Committee in terms of order dated 28.1.2021 in OA 519/2019

 which has attained finality. Deposit will be responsibility of the Chief

 Secretary. Funds can be raised in appropriate manner from the generators

 of waste, violators, erring officers, corporates and if so necessary and so

 decided from a part of the land under the garbage. 37. Restoration measures will include scientific disposal of the

 accumulated garbage as per statutory Rules and environmental norms, fire

 control and mitigation measures, construction of boundary wall/bio- fencing by trees and shrubs/ afforestation, plantation, leachate treatment

 facility. Course of action planned and executed at other places8 where

 legacy waste dumpsites are reported to have been remediated may also be 8 such as Indore and Ahmedabad 71 studied. Ground Water Authority may examine the extent of leachate flow

into the ground water on which remedial action may be taken. 38. It is to be ensured that current waste is not added to legacy waste

dumpsites. After collection, the same be taken to the destination such as

Integrated Waste Management Facility or stand alone Waste Management

Facilities such as Composting Centres, C&D Waste Centres and RDF Units,

Waste to Energy Units, Cement Factories, Road Construction and filling up

identified low lying areas, as per norms. This requires careful planning and

execution with the involvement of senior level officers instead of leaving the

task to junior officers as appears to be currently happening. Precautions

in light of report of the Committee headed by Justice S.P. Garg, retired

Judge, Delhi High Court need to be taken forthwith. To control foul smell

and improve aesthetics, turfing of landfill sites must be done forthwith

either in the form of a boundary walls with necessary entry and exit gates

or fencing by plantations of at least three rows of native fast growing and

tall native trees requiring minimum water in the periphery of landfill sites

as well as complying with other criteria for development of facilities at such

sites following the provisions under the Schedule I of MSW Rules, 2016. A

clear action plan with defined course of action needs to be drawn up after

brain storming and studying the remediation processes adopted at other

places. Consequences of overshooting timeline against identified

officers/service providers may be specified and enforced. The Committee

may consider undertaking visits to appropriate sites. 39. One of the crucial links in management of remediation work based

on bio-mining and bio-remediation is the utilization and disposal of rejects

like inert, RDF, stabilized bio-earth. Segregated fractions and components

which are in high quantity be safely utilized and disposed. Bulk users of 72 RDF, three waste to energy projects should utilize the RDF and if required

enhance their capacity without compromising environmental norms and

public safety. 40. To compensate the affected citizens of the area, the authorities are

under obligation to develop dense forest in at least on one third of the land

occupied by the dumpsite, after the sites are cleared. One third can be

utilized for setting up Integrated Waste Management Facilities or other like

infrastructure. The remaining one-third can be utilized for any other

purpose, including raising of funds consistent with environment concerns

without affecting the use of the two-third, as earlier mentioned. The

authorities may explore setting up a tourism and recreational centre with

the involvement of an appropriate agency on PPP or Hybrid Annuity Model

or other mechanism so that investment is made which is allowed to be

recovered from the tourists visiting such centres. Creation of an

appropriate water body may be considered as part of such recreational

centre. Possibility of setting up an Interpretation Centres at all the three

sites to facilitate study for creating awareness for the citizens may also be

considered. 41. Community involvement including the Welfare Associations,

Educational Institutions, Volunteers, corporates, charitable and other

social organisations and individuals may be explored. Such involvement

may be explored for plantation drives also. There is also need to strengthen

the Control Room and set up Grievance Redressal Mechanism accessible

to the citizens to extend immediate help in emergencies within a month. 42. Since one of the obstacles pointed out by the Chief Secretary is the

delay in getting environmental clearance for expanding waste to energy

plant, we direct that expansion of such project can proceed without such 73 clearance but consistent with environment norms. We refer to similar view

taken in recent order dated 23.09.2022 in O.A. 172/2021, Poonam Yadav

v. M/s Ecogreen Energy Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. in handling legacy site at Gurgaon:- 43. Identifying the end users of the legacy waste dumpsites may help

timebound remediation. Since it is stated that the land belongs to DDA,

this aspect be considered within two months by a joint Committee of

Secretary, Urban Development, GoI and Vice Chairman, DDA or any other

relevant authority to be identified by the said two officers. Vice Chairman,

DDA will be the nodal agency for the purpose. 44. In terms of order dated 28.1.2021, reproduced in para 21 above, the

Monitoring Committee will be headed by Chief Secretary, Delhi with

nominees of LG, Secretary, Environment Department, Delhi, Secretary,

Urban Development, Delhi, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Delhi,

Chief Conservator of Forest, Delhi, Member Secretary, CPC B, CEO, DJB

and jurisdictional District Magistrates and DCPs (in all 13 members). To

utilise experience in handling such situations, nominees of Municipal

Corporations, Ahmedabad and Indore may be special invitees. 45. The Committee will be free to coordinate with any other concerned

Department and co-opt any other Experts/Institutions or officers for

speedy preparation and execution of the action plan. It may meet within

two weeks for taking stock of the situation and further planning. Meetings

may be physical or online. It must meet atleast once a month but its

secretariat may function round the clock with defined responsibilities. Interim progress report on the subject may be filed with this Tribunal giving

status of compliance as on 31.12.2022 by 15.01.2023 by e-mail at judicial- [email protected] preferably in the form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF

and not in the form of Image PDF. The report may specify the area

reclaimed and steps taken for speeding up the waste processing facilities

to reduce gap in waste generation and processing. 46. We place on record our appreciation for the services rendered by

Justice SP Garg, former Judge, Delhi High Court in providing useful inputs

by way of two reports. List for further consideration on 10.02.2023. The Chief Secretary, Delhi may remain present in virtual mode on

the next date. A copy of this order be forwarded to the Chief Secretary, Delhi, CPC B,

Secretary, Urban Development, GoI, Vice Chairman, DDA and Municipal

Corporations, Ahmedabad and Indore by email for compliance. A copy of this order be also forwarded to Chief Secretaries of all

States/UTs to consider the observations in this order (particularly in paras

37 to 41) and adopting necessary measures in handling the legacy waste

dump sites in their respective areas, by mail. A copy of this order be also forwarded to MoEF&CC, by mail. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM 75 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM

 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM

October 11, 2022
Original Application No. 300/2022
With Original Application No. 288/2022
AB+SN 76