Mr.Ananda B.V. Adv. for Petitioner
Mr.G.C. Shanmukha, Adv. for Respondents 1. The writ petitioner-M/s.Vennala Enterprises, a

Class-1 Electrical and K.P.W.D. Electrical contractor

has filed this writ petition with the following prayers:- respondents company dated 28.12.2013 vide
 Annexure-B. (c) Issue any other appropriate, writ
 order or direction and grant such other reliefs
 as this Hon'ble Court deems fit to grant in the
 facts and circumstances of the case, in the
 interest of justice". 2. The learned counsel for the petitioner has

submitted that the final report given by the respondent-

BESCOM on the irregularities in respect of the work

carried out in Kolar Division, Phase-I, II & III by the

Deputy General Manager (Ele)-1, Deputy General

Manager (Ele)-2, on 12.01.2009 vide Annexure-A

deserves to be quashed and on the basis of the same,

the impugned order Annexure-B issued by the

respondent-BESCOM withholding the payment of the

contractors for the alleged works executed during the

scam period also deserves to be quashed. Date of Order 29.11.2016 W.P.Nos.48670-671/2014
 M/s. Vennala Enterprises Vs.
 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd & Ors. 4/11 3. While issuing notice to the respondent-

BESCOM, the interim order was granted by the co-

ordinate bench of this Court on 21.11.2014 granting

interim order of stay of blacklisting of the petitioner and

other coercive steps to be initiated pursuant to

Annexures- 'A' and 'B' referred to above. 4. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits

that although for the recovery of money due to the

petitioner-contractor for the various works executed by

him, he filed Money Recovery Suits against the

respondent-BESCOM which have been decreed by the

competent civil court and against which, Regular First

Appeals have been filed by the respondent-BESCOM are

pending in this Court, yet, the impugned enquiry report

Annexures-'A' & 'B' and the order passed on that

basis deserves to be quashed by this Court, because,

actually, no survey of the works in question was carried

out by the BESCOM and the petitioner was never given
 Date of Order 29.11.2016 W.P.Nos.48670-671/2014
 M/s. Vennala Enterprises Vs.
 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd & Ors. 5/11 a prior notice of any such survey and therefore, these

reports are unsustainable. 5. On the contrary, learned counsel for the

respondents who has filed interim application and

which has come up for orders today before the Court

seeking vacation of the aforesaid ex-parte interim order

dated 21.11.2014, supported these impugned

orders/reports. 6. Having heard the learned counsel for the

parties, this Court is satisfied that no interference in the

matter can be made in the impugned Final Report of

irregularities Annexure-A and order issued on that

basis Annexure-B withholding the payments of the

contractors for the said work allegedly executed during

the scam period. The entire investigation appears to

have been initiated under reference of a letter of General

Manager(Electrical) dated 29.05.2007 referred to in the

said report and certain anonymous complaints as given
 Date of Order 29.11.2016 W.P.Nos.48670-671/2014
 M/s. Vennala Enterprises Vs.
 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd & Ors. 6/11 in the preamble of the Report Annexure-A in respect of

various works allegedly executed in Kolar Division in

Phase-I, II & III during the period 2006-07 and by a

Forty(40) page report consisting of two Deputy General

Managers arrived at a following conclusions in their

Report, which are quoted below for a ready reference to

give a insight into the matter. 7. On the basis of the said report, Annexure-B

Resolution appears to be passed by the respondent-

BESCOM that in view of the recommendation of the said

committee of Deputy General Managers, the payments

of the contractors for the pending bills for such works in

which these irregularities had occurred to that extent,

be withheld and the suitable disciplinary action may

also be initiated against the officials involved in such
 Date of Order 29.11.2016 W.P.Nos.48670-671/2014
 M/s. Vennala Enterprises Vs.
 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd & Ors. 9/11 execution of the works in this period. The relevant

portion of the recommendation in the Resolution passed

by the respondent-BESCOM is also quoted below for

ready reference:- 8. This Court is of the opinion that no interference

deserves to be made in the enquiry by the committee of

the High Level officials of the BESCOM, on the basis of

which the respondent-BESCOM is said to have initiated

action against the concerned officials of the BESCOM

itself and has also directed the withholding of the

payments due to the contractors for such works

allegedly executed during the said disputed period while

clearly recommending that payments for works done

other than those period deserves to be released to the

contractors. The same appears to be of the fair decision

taken by the respondent-BESCOM on the basis of

findings and recommendation of the Committee and

therefore, no interference is called for in writ

jurisdiction. Date of Order 29.11.2016 W.P.Nos.48670-671/2014
 M/s. Vennala Enterprises Vs.
 Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd & Ors. 11/11 9. The parties are already before High Court in the

Regular First Appeals as stated at the bar by both the

learned counsels and therefore, no opinion is required

to be expressed with respect to such pending matters. 10. The writ petitions are found to be devoid of

merits and liable to be dismissed and are dismissed

accordingly. No costs. Sd/- JUDGE

Srl.