SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My friend and I were scammed yesterday, we need all the advice we can get
DATE: 2023-04-20
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/12snndm/my_friend_and_i_were_scammed_yesterday_we_need/

--- POST TEXT ---

My friend and I have been SCAMMED and urgently need your help

In short, we live in Goa. We wanted a vape for a low price, my friend got a number online and so we hit the guy up. He was apparently running some kinda vape shop, and on call he said the delivery guy will come to deliver where we need it. 
We reached the pickup spot, and the “owner” told us that the transport guy and this guy are different. He told us he needed 3500+50 rupees on the owner’s address. We sent a total of 3550 on the owner’s UPI.
THEN the transport guy told us we needed to send two different transactions of 3500 and 50. So we did that too like a couple of FUCKING IDIOTS.
After this we get a call from the owner saying that the payments have some discrepancy or some shit and that we need to give the total amount of 7100 again. 
At this point ourselves and asked hom to cancel the order and give us all the money back. He said okay and he’ll call us in 5 mins. Since then we’ve been calling him for the last 30 mins and he’s not picking up.
We are shitting outselves and we both know that we’ve been utter fools. We accept that. We just need advice on what to do to get our money back.

We have some info. We have the UPI id names of the two people, and (1)we found that the number given on the “original” shop(which is where we got the number from) is also given on other similar fraud shops on google maps. Its basically the same number on other shops as well

2) we called the UPI number he asked us to transfer the money to, and that guy wasn’t picking up in the beginning, and the moment he did, we begged him to give us our money back. His tone had shifted, and he knew that we knew he was scamming us. He sort of scolded us for smoking, we cried that our family’s financial conditions weren’t good, and that we really needed our money. Again, he taunted us on how we should have thought of that while smoking. When I begged him again, he said he’ll transfer