1) The appellant/ wife Kalpana Khantwal has filed an appeal
 under Section 29 of Protection of Women from Domestic Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: The respondents never treated the complainant as a member
 of their family rather treated the complainant like a maid of
 their house. They also demanded money from the retirement
 fund of her father. Respondent no.1 used to give her beatings
 on coming late from office. On 14.09.2021, she prepared
 breakfast and lunch for respondent no.1 but he threw the
 same. When she was cleaning the floor, respondent no.1
 threw all the water on her and started beating her and choked
 Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU MADHU
 Date: Respondents tortured the appellant mentally, physically since
 the day of marriage and their insulting and abusive behavior
 ruined her life and all these atrocities caused great mental
 torture, agony, pain and strain to her. The appellant not only
 suffered mental pain but also suffered harassment and Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU MADHU
 Date: 3) Learned trial court after considering the submissions made
 by both the sides as well as after going through the income &
 expenditure affidavits filed by both the parties, disposed of
 the application under Section 23 of DV filed by the appellant
 directing the respondent no.1 to pay a sum of Rs.5,000/- per
 month to the appellant towards interim monetary relief. MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: Respondents have also filed reply to the appeal wherein they
 have denied all the allegations made by appellant. The
 respondents vide their reply have stated that the appellant is
 misleading the Court by submitting false facts, vague rent
 agreement, false income affidavit which is contempt of Court
 in view of judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Rajnesh Vs. Neha . Apex Court has held in various judgments
 that in order to get maintenance, applicant must prove that
 she is incapable to maintain herself. The appellant /
 complainant was well maintained during her stay at
 matrimonial home. The respondent no.1 has tried to fulfill all
 her needs and demands beyond his capacity and took care of
 her. The appellant / complainant being provoked by her own
 family members and friends and under severe influence of
 her mother has tortured the respondents no.1 to 3. The Digitally signed MADHU by MADHU JAIN
 Date: Further, all the averments made by him in his affidavit are
 not supported by any document and learned trial court has
 failed to consider this aspect. Learned counsel further argued
 that learned trial court has wrongly assessed the income of
 respondent no.1 as of Rs.30,000/- per month whereas, all the
 documents filed by respondent no.1 to show his salary
 income itself shows that he is concealing his actual income
 and assets with ulterior motives. Further, as per respondent
 no.1 himself he is having Membership, Credit Card,
 Insurance Policies and alleged loans in Lakhs of rupees but
 there is no explanation as to how he is bearing all these
 amounts in his meager income of Rs.30,000/-, which clearly
 indicates that he is earning much more than Rs.30,000/-.
 Learned counsel argued that respondent no.1 is professionally
 qualified and has experience of more than 13 years in his
 work but it does not appeal to the reason that inspite of such
 competency he is getting merely Rs.30,000/- p.m. as salary.
 Thus, the entire material available on record is required to be Digitally signed MADHU by MADHU JAIN
 Date: On account of matrimonial disputes and discord between the
 parties, their marital life got derailed and they could not
 continue their conjugal relationship. Since 14.09.2021 the
 appellant is living separately. The appellant has attributed
 various allegations of torture, harassment, dowry demands
 and domestic violence against the respondents. She has also
 narrated various incidents when atrocities leading to
 domestic violence were committed on her by the respondents
 while she was staying in the matrimonial home. The
 appellant has alleged that she was not only mentally harassed
 but was also physically assaulted by respondent no.1. MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: 11) The law is well settled that the test for determination of
 maintenance / monetary relief contemplated under the Act
 depend upon the financial status of the parties and the
 standard of living of the husband to which the wife was
 accustomed to in her matrimonial home. The monetary
 reliefs should neither be too extravagant which may become
 oppressive and unbearable for the respondent nor it should
 be so meager so as to drive the wife to destitution and
 hardship. A careful and just balance has to be drawn between
 the relevant factors pertaining to financial position and status
 of both the parties. 12) The grievance of the appellant is that the learned trial court
 while assessing the income of respondent no.1 has failed to
 take into account that he has concealed his true income from
 the court and the expenditure shown by him in his income Digitally signed MADHU by MADHU JAIN
CA No.20/2024 JAIN Date: 2024.07.22
 17:02:10 +0530 Kalpana Khantwal Vs. Deepak Baloni & Ors. Page 13 of 17 and expenditure affidavit are not supported by any
 documentary proof, which clearly indicates that his income
 is much more than as has been shown in salary slip. Further,
 the appellant has also contended that the amount shown
 towards monthly expenditures does not corroborate the
 salary income as assessed by the learned trial court. 13) Perusal of impugned order shows that while deciding the
 application under section 23 of DV Act filed by the
 appellant, learned trial court has meticulously dealt with the
 arguments, income & expenditure affidavits, and other
 relevant material before arriving at the impugned order.
 Perusal of the bank statement filed on record by the
 respondent w.e.f. 01.04.2022 to 12.07.2022 reflects that
 there are credit entries of Rs.30,000/- every month in his
 account. There is also one entry of Rs.49,900/- in his
 account. Thus, learned trial court in her discretion has
 correctly assessed the income of respondent no.1 as of
 Rs.30,000/- per month. Appellant has not placed on record
 any document to show that respondent no.1 is earning
 income from other sources or from another employment.
 Mere statements without concrete evidence do not establish
 the alleged concealment of income. The same should be
 based on documented proof, which the appellant has failed to
 provide. The salary details of respondent no.1 as given by
 the appellant is a matter of fact which cannot be decided
 without there being evidence led by both the parties. Also, it
 will not be out of context to mention here that in a
 maintenance proceedings generally party claiming the Digitally signed by MADHU MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: MADHU JAIN
 Date: stone of cross-examination and evidence to be led by each
 party and the amount remains adjustable after final order to
 Digitally
 signed by
 MADHU MADHU
 Date: 18) Nothing expressed hereinabove shall tantamount to an
 expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 19) A copy of this judgment along with Trial Court Record be
 sent back to the learned Trial Court. 20) Appeal file be consigned to Record Room. MADHU JAIN
 JAIN Date: