SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Recruitment Scam -- Lost 5 Lakhs [Reposting for Awareness]
DATE: 2023-10-08
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/172wbnm/recruitment_scam_lost_5_lakhs_reposting_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

This happened to me almost three years ago. I feel embarassed even thinking about it, but i have to come forward, so that others don't fall for it. 

Back then I was jobless and was desperately looking for a source of income. One day I got a call from this recruitment agency saying that they had come across my profile on Naukri and were considering me for a role. They said it was a government job. I was excited. 

They said that there was an online assissment and I had to pay a registration fee of five thousand. I was a bit hesitant at first, but the recruiter said it was a refundable amount. I had some savings, so I dipped into those and paid up. 

The assissment in itself was easy, it was -- versant and a psychometric test. Two days later I got a call saying I've qualified and now have to appear in a physical exam. They called me to a different city (in the same state) and put me up in a one star hotel. There was another payment involved. The physical exam involved endurance and strength testing. They took us to a seimming pool and asked us to swim laps, took us to a hilly part of the town and asked us to job up and down the mountain, and there was some weights lifting in the gym. This is where I got to meet the other candidates. The physical exam phase lasted for 1.5 months. And then we were sent back. 

Soon after reaching home I received another call saying I've passed the physical exam and need to give another test. Another payment. I obliged. Few days after the test another call came saying I passed. Then they said they wanted me to appear for one final physical exam, it was going to be in another state. Another payment. I obliged. This time they put me up in a three star hotel. I net another group. Different people. This time it was mild cardio daily, to test stamina. This lasted for two months and then we were sent back. 

And then I waited. And waited. Silence. 

After a few weeks I lost oatience and tried calling the number. And that's when I was in for a shock. The number was out of service. No longer active. I was screwed. 

I all I paid almost 5L in fees (which they had promised was refundable). There were atleast 20 people when I'd gone to the hotel each time. So that's about 1 Crore. And the whole scam lasted for about 9-months. And this is just one state. It wouldn't be wrong of me to assume that this is going on in every state in the country. 

Let my experience serve as a warning to you. Never pay or trust these people. Keep yourself safe from scams.