“[We] intend to work toward an environment that reinforces our democratic systems and promotes active participation of every citizen in democratic processes, secures and protects individuals’ privacy, maintains secure and reliable connectivity, resists efforts to splinter the global Internet, and promotes a free and competitive global economy,” sixty-one nations including the US, all EU member states, the UK, Australia, Canada, Israel, and New Zealand said on April 28 in the Declaration for the Future of the Internet , a political commitment to challenge rising digital authoritarianism.

Notably, India is not among the countries that have signed the Declaration. It’s concerning that India, as a democratic nation, isn’t participating in an initiative that is promoting an internet that protects freedom of speech and expression and fosters openness, competition, and inclusivity. The other large nations that are not part of the commitment are Russia and China, which is not great company to keep. With rising instances of internet shutdowns, content takedown notices, and even arrests for tweets critical of the government, it would have been welcome to see India reiterate its commitment to the democratic principles proposed in the Declaration. Nevertheless, there’s still a chance for India to join. “The hope remains that time isn’t fully passed yet for India to join […] we’ve been engaged in — in very intensive efforts to have all of these — all of these countries join,” a senior White House official said in a press briefing .

The Declaration has been in the works since September 2021. While the initial idea was to form some kind of “alliance,” this idea appears to have been dropped after negative feedback. The Declaration is not legally binding, but it will have an impact on the frameworks developed and adopted by international bodies. “This Declaration takes into account, and expects to contribute to, existing processes in the UN system, G7, G20, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the World Trade Organization, and other relevant multilateral and multistakeholder fora, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, Internet Governance Forum, and Freedom Online Coalition,” the Declaration states.

Dear reader, we urgently need to build capacity to cover the fast-moving tech policy space. For that, our independent newsroom is counting on you . Subscribe to MediaNama today, and help us report on the policies that govern the internet.

“Globally, we are witnessing a trend of rising digital authoritarianism where some states act to repress freedom of expression, censor independent news sites, interfere with elections, promote disinformation, and deny their citizens other human rights. At the same time, millions of people still face barriers to access and cybersecurity risks and threats undermine the trust and reliability of networks,” the US government said in a statement .

“The last two months have provided an extreme example of such behavior in connection with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Russia has aggressively promoted disinformation at home and abroad, censored Internet news sources, blocked or shut down legitimate sites, and gone so far as to physically attack the Internet infrastructure in Ukraine. Russia, however, is hardly alone but just one of the leaders in a dangerous new model of Internet policy along with the People’s Republic of China and some of the other most censorial states in the world,” a senior White House official said.

The Declaration explains that the internet, developed as an open “network of networks”, has been governed by a multi-stakeholder approach to avoid internet fragmentation. “For business, entrepreneurs, and the innovation ecosystem as a whole, interconnection promises better access to customers and fairer competition; for artists and creators, new audiences; for everyone, unfettered access to knowledge. With the creation of the Internet came a swell in innovation, vibrant communication, increased cross-border data flows, and market growth—as well as the invention of new digital products and services that now permeate every aspect of our daily lives,” the Declaration states.

However, over the last two decades, the idea of an interconnected network has been challenged by the following, the Declaration lays out:

According to the vision of the Declaration, the signatories commit to promoting the following:

In order to achieve the vision stated above, countries commit to adopting the following key principles into concrete policies and actions:

To promote human rights and fundamental freedoms

To promote the free flow of information and a global internet

To increase access to the internet

To increase trust in the digital ecosystem

To promote multistakeholder internet governance

“The Internet has brought humanity together, like never before in history. Today, for the first time, like-minded countries from all over the world are setting out a shared vision for the future of the Internet, to make sure that the values we hold true offline are also protected online, to make the Internet a safe place and trusted space for everyone, and to ensure that the Internet serves our individual freedom. Because the future of the Internet is also the future of democracy, of humankind.” – Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event