J.B. PARDIWALA J.,

 For the convenience of exposition, this judgment is divided
 into the following parts:- 2. Heard Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Gaurav
 Pachnanda, the learned Senior counsel appearing
 for the petitioners and Dr. Abhishek Manu
 Singhvi, Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul and Mr. Arvind
 Nigam, the learned Senior counsel appearing for
 the respondent. 3. We are of the view that there is no good reason
 for us to interfere with the impugned Judgment
 and Order passed by the High Court. 4. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly,
 dismissed. 5. In view of the dismissal of the Special Leave
 Petition, no orders are required to be passed on
 the application for intervention/impleadment and
 the same stands disposed of. 6. However, reasons to follow by a separate
 Order.” 2. This petition arises from the judgment and order passed by the High
 Court of Delhi, dated 01.07.2052 in the CM Application No. 26455 of
 2025 filed in the RFA(O.S.)(COMM) No.11 of 2025 by which the
 application filed by the respondent herein (judgment debtor-original
 defendant) under Order XLI Rule 5(1) and Rule 5(3) of the Civil
 Procedure Code, 1908, (for short, “ the CPC ”) respectively came to be
 allowed, and thereby the Court stayed the operation of the judgment
 and money decree dated 25.02.2025 passed by a learned Single Judge
 in the suit instituted by the petitioner herein. In short, the Division
 Bench of the High Court granted stay of the execution of the money
 decree suffered by the respondent herein without insisting for the
 deposit of the decretal amount. 3. For the sake of convenience, the petitioners herein shall be referred to
 as the original plaintiffs and the respondent herein shall be referred to
 as the original defendant. A. FACTUAL MATRIX 4. The plaintiffs along with its subsidiaries and licensees claim to be
 engaged in the business of manufacturing, distribution and sale of a
 wide range of products including garments, apparels, footwear for men,
 women and children, furniture, textiles, watches and other
 lifestyle/personal care products under the trademark Beverly Hills Polo
 Club (hereinafter referred to as, “BHPC”). 5. The plaintiff No. 1 is an Amsterdam based company and is the
 proprietor of the BHPC trademark and claims to hold exclusive rights
 for its use and commercialisation. The BHPC trademark consists of a
 distinctive look featuring a charging Polo pony with a mounted rider
 wielding a raised polo stick (mallet) symbolising the sport of Polo. 6. The plaintiff no. 2 is the licensee of the said trademark pursuant to the
 Master License and Licensing Service Agreement dated 20.05.2008. 7. The plaintiffs instituted Civil Suit (COMM) No. 443 of 2020 in the Delhi
 High Court, inter alia, seeking permanent injunction and damages
 against the defendant for the alleged infringement of their registered
 trademark BHPC. 8. It is the case of the plaintiffs that they are the rightful proprietors of
 the BHPC Mark which enjoys extensive goodwill and recognition in the
 domestic and international markets. The plaintiffs instituted the suit
 contending that the defendant has been unlawfully using a mark
 identically or deceptively similar to the plaintiffs’ trademark, thereby
 violating their statutory and common law rights. 9. In such circumstances referred to above, the plaintiffs prayed for the
 following reliefs: 10. It appears from the materials on record that in the suit filed by the
 plaintiffs there were three defendants including the respondent herein Page 5 of 73 as the original defendant No. 1. The plaint computed the damages
 claimed from all the defendants to the tune of Rs. 2,00,05,000/-
 (Rupees Two Crore and Five Thousand Only), or such other amount as
 the court would find it to be payable. 11. It further appears that the defendant No. 1 was proceeded ex parte vide
 Order dated 20.04.2022. Of the remaining two defendants, the suit was
 decreed against the defendant No. 2 for Rs. 4,78,484/- vide the Order
 dated 02.03.2023. The very same order deleted the defendant No. 3
 from the array of parties. 12. In such circumstances, the respondent before us is the only defendant
 now contesting the litigation. 13. It appears that upon institution of the suit by the plaintiffs the following
 Order dated 12.10.2020 came to be passed: Signing Date:13.10.2020 07:06:56 This file is
 digitally signed by PS to HMJ Mukta Gupta
 CS(COMM) 443/2020 I.A. 9254/2020 (under
 Order XXXIX Rule 1 and 2 CPC ) 1. Plaint be registered as a suit. 2. Issue summons in the suit and notice in the
 application to the defendants. 3. Learned counsel for the defendant No.2 and
defendant No.3 accept summons in the suit and
notice in the application. 4. Summons in the suit and notice in the
application be now issued to defendant No.1 on
the plaintiff taking steps through email and
whatsapp, returnable before this Court on 2nd
February, 2021. 5. Written statement and reply affidavit along
with affidavit of admission/denial be filed within
30 days of the receipt of summons in the suit and
notice in the application. 6. Replication and rejoinder affidavit, along with
affidavit of admission/denial, be filed within
three weeks thereafter. 7. Case of the plaintiff is that the plaintiff is a
brand-owner of "BEVERLY HILLS POLO CLUB" 8. Grievance in the present suit of the plaintiff is
limited to defendant No.1 which is a group
company of defendant No.3 but not working as an
intermediary but is selling its own brand, copying
the logo of the plaintiff as….. It is thus claimed
that by infringing the plaintiff's device mark as
also the copyright in the logo, the defendant No.1
is selling its goods representing them to be as the
plaintiff's brand. Learned counsel further states
that defendant No.2 is selling the products of the
defendant No.1 under the impugned logo mark by
listing the same on the platform of defendant
No.3. 9. None appears on behalf of defendant No.1
despite advance notice however, learned counsel
for defendant No.3, that is, Amazon Seller Service
Pvt. Ltd. enters appearance and states that in an
earlier suit filed by the plaintiff being CS(COMM)
1015/2018 Lifestyle Equities C.V. and Ors. vs.
Amazon Seller Services Pvt. Ltd. , vide order dated Page 7 of 73 16th July, 2018, this Court had already directed
the defendant No.3 to take down the URLs
wherein the brand/logo/device mark of the
plaintiff is copied including those mentioned in
the plaint and as and when the plaintiff gives any
further information in this regard. Learned
counsel for the defendant No.3 states that since
the defendant No.3 is covered by the said order
of this Court dated 16th July, 2018, no fresh suit
is maintainable and the plaintiff was only
required to intimate the same to the defendant
No.3 and hence the present suit is mala fide. 10. Learned counsel for the defendant No.2 states
that the defendant No.2 has already taken down
the listing and will further investigate into the
matter and take down any further listing which is
either on the defendant No.3's platform or any
other platform. 11. Case of the plaintiff is that in the earlier suit,
that is, CS (COMM) No.1015/2018, the plaintiff
had impleaded parties who were selling their
products on the defendant No.3's listing by
infringing the plaintiff's device mark and the
copyright and in the earlier suit the defendant
No.1 was not a party and in the present suit, not
only does the plaintiff seek delisting of the brand
of the defendant No.1 from the defendant No.3's
platform but also seeks the relief of injunction
against the defendant No.1 which is infringing
and diluting the plaintiff's mark by selling its
products on a much cheaper rates representing to
be that of the plaintiff. 12. Considering that the defendant No.1 is a
separate entity, this Court is prima facie of the
view that the present suit would be maintainable.
From the averments in the plaint as also the
documents filed therewith, this Court finds that
the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case in
its favour and in case no ex-parte ad-interim
injunction is granted, the plaintiff would suffer an
irreparable loss. Balance of convenience also lies
in favour of the plaintiff. Consequently, till the
next date of hearing, defendant No.1 and
defendant No.2, their Partners, Directors,
Proprietors, Shareholders, Affiliates, Licensees, Page 8 of 73 Agents etc. are restrained from selling, offering for
 sell, advertising, directly or indirectly dealing in
 any products or reproducing or using in any
 manner whatsoever the infringing logo mark
 which is identically/deceptively similar to the
 plaintiff's logo mark "BEVERLY HILLS POLO
 CLUB". In the meantime, defendant No.3 is
 directed to take down the products of the
 defendant No.1 with the infringing logo within 72
 hours of the URLs being provided by the plaintiff. 13. Compliance under Order XXXIX Rule 3
 CPC be made within one week.” 14. Thus, the Court while registering the plaint as a suit noted that the
 defendant No. 1, i.e., the respondent before us despite an advance
 notice failed to enter appearance, and accordingly granted an ex parte
 ad interim injunction restraining the defendants, their partners,
 directors, proprietors, shareholders, etc., from selling, offering for sale,
 advertising, directly or indirectly dealing in any products which is
 identically/deceptively similar to the plaintiffs’ logo mark “BHPC”. 15. The suit ultimately came to be adjudicated ex parte, and came to be
 decreed in favour of the plaintiffs and against the defendant No. 1, i.e.,
 the respondent before us in the following terms: 3,23,10,966.60/- along with the Court Fee. 122. The details of the relief granted are
 summarized below: 124. The suit along with all pending applications,
 if any are disposed of.” 16. The defendant being dissatisfied with the judgment and money decree
 passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court challenged the
 same by filing RFA (O.S.) (COMM) No. 11 of 2025. 17. In the appeal filed by the defendant, an application was filed under
 Order XLI Rule 5(1) and Rule 5(3) of the CPC respectively, seeking stay
 of the operation of judgment and money decree passed by the learned
 Single Judge referred to above . 18. The Division Bench of the High Court after hearing the decree-holders
 and the judgment-debtor allowed the stay application in the following
 terms: 19. In such circumstance referred to above , the original plaintiffs/decree-
 holders are here before us with the present petition. B. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFFS 20. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, the learned Senior
 Counsel appearing for the plaintiffs submitted that the Division Bench
 of the High Court committed an egregious error in granting the benefit
 of unconditional stay of the execution of money decree. It was
 vehemently submitted that the impugned judgment and order passed
 by the Division Bench of the High Court is in gross violation and
 flagrant disregard of the mandatory provisions of Order XLI Rule 5(1)
 and Rule 5(3) of the CPC respectively. 21. Mr. Rohatgi vehemently submitted that impugned judgment and order
 is erroneous on all counts. According to the learned Senior Counsel,
 the High Court is not correct in saying that there was no valid service
 of summons to the defendant. 22. The learned Senior Counsel vehemently submitted that Order XLI Rule
 1(3) of the CPC makes it abundantly clear that in an appeal against a
 decree for payment of amount, the appellant is obliged in law, within
 the time permitted by the Appellate Court, to deposit the amount
 awarded or furnish such security in respect thereof as the Court may
 think fit. He laid much stress on the fact that under Order XLI Rule
 5(5) of the CPC a deposit or security, is a condition precedent for an
 order by the Appellate Court staying the execution of the decree. 23. In other words, according to the learned Senior Counsel the provision
 is mandatory in character. With a view to fortify the submissions noted
 aforesaid, the learned Senior Counsel placed strong reliance on the
 decision of this Court in the case of Sihor Nagar Palika Bureau v.
 Bhabhlubhai Virabhai & Co. , reported in (2005) 4 SCC 1. 24. It was vehemently argued that, if according to the defendant it is a case
 of an ex parte decree, i.e., decree passed without service of valid
 summons, then why the defendant did not prefer any application under Order IX Rule 13 of the CPC ? Why defendant thought fit to prefer an
 appeal against such so called ex parte decree? 25. The learned Senior Counsel invited our attention to the second Proviso
 to Order IX Rule 13 of the CPC . Relying on the same, it was argued that
 the defendant had the requisite knowledge of the date of hearing and
 had sufficient time to appear, file its written statement, and to contest Page 12 of 73 the suit. It was argued that the delivery of the suit papers and the order
 passed by the High Court dated 12.10.2020 granting ex parte
 injunction subject to compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 of the CPC would amount to adequate service of summons in accordance with law.
 To fortify this submission reliance was placed on the decision of this
 Court in the case of Sunil Poddar and Others v. Union Bank of
 India , reported in (2008) 2 SCC 326, and the decision of the Delhi
 High Court in the case of LT Foods Ltd. v. Saraswati Trading
 Company , reported in 2022 SCC OnLine Del 3694. 26. It was also submitted by the learned Counsel that the Division Bench
 of the High Court committed an egregious error in staying the money
 decree on mere asking the defendant to furnish an undertaking on
 oath, that in the event, if the appeal is dismissed the defendant shall
 deposit the decretal amount. This according to the learned Senior
 Counsel cannot be termed as adequate security. 27. In such circumstances referred to above , the learned Senior Counsel
 prayed that there being merit in his petition the same may be allowed
 and the impugned judgment and order be set aside, and further the
 defendant may be directed to deposit the decretal amount with interest
 in the court below. C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT 28. On the other hand, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Mr. Neeraj Kishan
 Kaul and Mr. Arvind Nigam, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for
 the defendant, while vehemently opposing this petition submitted that
 no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been
 committed by the High Court in passing the impugned judgment and
 order. 29. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that all the relevant aspects of
 the matter could be said to have been looked into by the Division Bench
 painstakingly, and upon being fully convinced on all aspects, the
 Division Bench in its discretion thought fit to grant the benefit of stay
 of the execution of the money decree without insisting for the deposit
 of the decretal amount with interest or any other tangible security. 30. It was argued that the decision of this Court in Sihor Nagar Palika (supra) upon which strong reliance has been placed on behalf of the
 petitioner is of no avail in view of the decision of this Court in Malwa
 Strips Pvt. Limited v. Jyoti Limited , reported in (2009) 2 SCC 426. 31. It was pointed that in Malwa Strips (supra), this Court considered Sihor Nagar Palika (supra) and took the view that the word “shall” in Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC is not mandatory, and if an exceptional
 case is made out then it is always open for the Appellate Court to grant
 the benefit of stay of the execution of a money decree without insisting
 for deposit of the entire decretal amount with interest. 32. It was argued that the Division Bench of the High Court was fully
 convinced that not only any valid summons was not served upon the
 defendants and the suit proceeded ex parte, but even on other counts,
 the judgment and decree passed by the Court, prima facie, suffers from
 various legal infirmities. 33. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that the Division Bench of the
 High Court in its impugned judgment and order has recorded few
 shocking facts like the plaintiffs enhancing the claim of damages
 consequently from Rs. 2 crore in the plaint to Rs. 3,780 crore at the
 stage of written submissions post-trial, and that too without any Page 14 of 73 amendment and without putting the defendant to notice of such
 enhanced claim without any basis in the pleadings. It was argued that
 having regard to the gross perversities and illegalities writ large in the
 decree and conduct of the suit proceedings, asking the defendant to
 furnish security or deposit of any particular amount as a pre-condition
 for stay would be wholly disproportionate and excessive. 34. In such circumstances referred to above , the learned Senior Counsel
 prayed that there being no merit in the present petition the same may
 be dismissed. D. REJOINDER TO THE SUBMISSIONS CANVASSED ON
 BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANTS 35. Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
 plaintiffs in rejoinder put forward an important submission, which we
 must take record and deal with the same. 36. The learned Senior Counsel invited our attention to Section 36(3) of the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, “the Arbitration
 Act ”). He would submit that the second Proviso attached to Section
 36(3) of the Arbitration Act is an indication that ordinarily by applying
 the principles of Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC , as mentioned in Section
 36(3) of the Arbitration Act, the Court would not be empowered to
 unconditionally stay an arbitration award or a judgment. 37. In the alternative, the learned Senior Counsel sought to argue that,
 even if it was to be understood that the second Proviso attached to Section 36(3) of the Arbitration Act provides that instead of exercising
 discretion, the Court must grant unconditional stay in cases of fraud
 and corruption, the same would lead to a logical inference that the Page 15 of 73 discretion to grant an unconditional stay under Order XLI Rule 5 of the
 CPC would be restricted to only cases of fraud or corruption, or grounds
 that take colour from those two grounds and not cases of an extreme
 or egregious view on the merits of the adjudication. E. ANALYSIS 38. Having heard the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the parties and
 having gone through materials on record, the only question that falls
 for our consideration is whether the Division Bench of the High Court
 committed any error in passing the impugned judgment and order? 39. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, we
 must look into few relevant provisions of law and also look into few
 decisions of this Court and various High Courts. 40. Order XLI Rule 1(3) of the CPC reads thus:- 41. Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC reads as under:- Explanation- An order by the Appellate Court for the stay of
 execution of the decree shall be effective from
 the date of the communication of such order to
 the Court of first instance but an affidavit
 sworn by the appellant, based on his personal
 knowledge, stating that an order for the stay
 of execution of the decree has been made by
 the Appellate Court shall, pending the receipt
 from the Appellate Court of the order for the
 stay of execution or any order to the contrary,
 be acted upon by the Court of first instance.
(2) Stay by Court which passed the decree.-
Where an application is made for stay of
execution of an appealable decree before the
expiration of the time allowed for appealing
therefrom, the Court which passed the decree
may on sufficient cause being shown order the
execution to be stayed. (3) No order for stay of execution shall be made
under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) unless the Court
making it is satisfied- (a) that substantial loss may result to the party
 applying for stay of execution unless the order
 is made; (b) that the application has been made without
 unreasonable delay; and (c) that security has been given by the
 applicant for the due performance of such
 decree or order as may ultimately be binding
 upon him. (4) [Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (3)], the
Court may make an ex parte order for stay of
execution pending the hearing of the application.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the
foregoing sub-rules, where the appellant fails to
make the deposit or furnish the security specified
in sub-rule (3) of rule 1, the Court shall not make
an order staying the execution of the decree.” Page 17 of 73 i. History of the Legislation in Question 42. The Bill No. 27 of 1974, being a Bill to amend the CPC and the Limitation Act, 1963 , was introduced in the Lok Sabha on April 8,
 1974. The text of the Bill is found published in the Gazette of
 India, Extraordinary dated April 8, 1974, in Part-II, Section 2 at pages
 203 to 293. 43. The Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Bill recites in
 paragraph 5 at page 295 that after carefully considering the
 recommendations made by the Law Commission in its Twenty-seventh,
 Fortieth, Fifty-fourth and Fifty-fifth Reports, the Government had
 decided to bring forward the said Bill for the amendment of the Code of
 Civil Procedure , 1908, keeping in view, among others, the following
 basic considerations, namely: 44. Clause 90 of the Bill provided for the amendment of Order XLI. In Rule
 1 of Order XLI, after sub-rule (2), sub-rule (3) in the following terms
 was sought to be introduced: ii. Principles required to be followed while Interpreting a
 Provision of a Statute 55. As the entire debate revolves around the interpretation of the provisions
 of Order XLI Rule 5(1) and Rule 5(3) of the CPC respectively, we must Page 22 of 73 discuss the well settled principles required to be followed while
 interpreting a provision of a statute. 56. The well-settled principles required to be followed by a court while
 interpreting a provision of a statute is that the intention of the
 legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, and
 consequently, a construction which results in rejection of words as
 meaningless, has to be avoided. It is not a sound principle of
 construction to brush aside words or phrase in a statute as being
 inapposite surplusage if they can have appropriate application in
 circumstances conceivably within the contemplation of the statute. In
 interpretation of statutes, the courts always presume that the
 legislature inserted every part thereof for a purpose and the legislative
 intention is that every part of the statute should have effect. The
 legislature is deemed not to waste its words, or to say anything in vain.
 [See: Mithilesh Singh v. Union of India , reported in (2003) 3 SCC
 309]. 57. Similarly, in the case of Padma Sundara Rao v. State of Tamil
 Nadu, reported in (2002) 3 SCC 533, it was held that two principles of
 construction – one relating to casus omissus, and the other in regard
 to reading the statute as a whole appear to be well-settled. Under the
 first principle, the rule of casus omissus cannot be supplied by the
 court except in the case of clear necessity. The rule of casus
 omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose, all the
 parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every
 clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context of
 the statute and other clauses thereof, so that the construction to be
 put on a particular provision makes a consistent enactment of the
 whole statute. This would be more so, if literal construction of a Page 23 of 73 particular clause leads to manifestly absurd or anomalous results,
 which could not have been intended by the legislature. Therefore, if the
 language is plain, there is no necessity of taking aid of external aid for
 gathering the real intention of the legislature. 58. Over and above, we should bear in mind the following well-known rule
 of interpretation of the statute reiterated by this Court in the case
 of Union of India v. Deoki Nandan Agarwal , reported in 1992 Supp
 (1) SCC 323: 59. Applying the aforesaid principles, if we read the plain language of Order
 XLI Rule 1 sub-rule (3) of the CPC , we get the clear intention of the
 legislature that deposit of the decretal amount, or giving security
 thereof is not a condition precedent for maintaining a money appeal,
 and the court is vested with the discretion to grant time for depositing
 such amount and giving security before disposal of the appeal, and at
 the same time, the Appellate Court has also the power to extend the Page 24 of 73 time by taking aid of Section 148 of the CPC. On the other hand, a less
 grave consequence for non-compliance of such condition, was
 envisaged, namely, to disentitle the appellant to the benefit of stay of
 execution of the decree as provided in Rule 5(5) of Order XLI. 60. The aforesaid view has been expressed by this Court in the case of Kayamuddin Shamsuddin Khan v. State Bank of India , reported
 in (1998) 8 SCC 676, wherein it has been held as follows:- 61. It may be apposite to observe that this Court in the aforesaid decision
 was dealing with the interpretation of Order XLI Rule 1(3) of the CPC , Page 25 of 73 as amended in the State of Maharashtra, where the appellate Court
 has power to dispense with making deposit or security in fit and proper
 cases. 62. In Malwa Strips (supra) this Court interpreted Order XLI Rule 1(3) of
 the Code as provided in the Central legislation, i.e., the CPC , and held
 that the said provision although couched with the expression “shall”
 yet must be read as directory and not mandatory. It quoted with
 approval the ratio laid down in Kayamuddin (supra). 63. In view of the law declared by this Court in Kayamuddin (supra) and Malwa Strips (supra), there is no escape from the conclusion that the
 obligation under Order XLI Rule 1(3) is not mandatory but directory in
 nature, and failure to comply with the same shall not result in rejection
 of the appeal, but would disentitle the appellant the benefit of stay of
 execution of the money decree. 64. The provisions of Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC govern the question of
 grant or refusal of stay of execution of the decree by the appellate
 court. A mere reading of the provision makes it clear that it does not
 make any distinction between a money decree and other decrees. The
 powers of the Appellate Court to order stay of execution of the decree
 are not fettered in any way if there is “sufficient cause” for passing
 such an order. Even with regard to money decrees, the discretion of
 the court is circumscribed by the same limitations imposed under
 the provisions of Order XLI Rule 5. There is no reason why decrees
 for payment of money should receive a consideration different from
 the other decrees in the matter of stay pending appeals. In suitable
 cases, where the court is satisfied that substantial loss may result to
 the applicant, if no stay is granted or there are any exceptional Page 26 of 73 circumstances, the court may grant stay as prayed for either with or
 without any condition whatsoever. Otherwise, in the absence of any
 exceptional circumstance, money decree ordinarily would not be
 stayed unconditionally from its execution by the appellate court
 pending the final disposal of appeal on its own merits. 65. Mere filing of an appeal would not operate as stay of execution of
 decree, but the Appellate Court may, for “sufficient cause”, order stay
 of execution of decree. The other relevant part of the rule is contained
 in sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of Order XLI. As per the provisions of sub-
 rule (3) of Rule 5 of Order XLI, the Court has to see;
 (1) whether there will be substantial loss to the party applying for
 stay; (2) whether the application has been made without unreasonable
 delay; and
 (3) whether security has been given by the applicant for due
 performance of the decree. 66. Thus, the provisions of the Rule are very clear and they do not make
 any distinction between money decrees and other types of decrees. 67. This Court in Sihor Nagar Palika (supra), observed the following as
 regards the power of the Appellate Court to stay the decree in first
 appeal:- 68. In Atma Ram Properties (P) Ltd. v. Federal Motors (P) Ltd. ,
 reported in (2005) 1 SCC 705, this Court while deciding a litigation
 arising from the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 observed as under:- This consideration is pitted and weighed against
the other paramount consideration: why should a
party having succeeded from the court below be
deprived of the fruits of the decree or order in his
hands merely because the defeated party has
chosen to invoke the jurisdiction of a superior
forum. Still the question which the court dealing
with a prayer for the grant of stay asks itself is: 69. In Malwa Strips (supra), this Court after looking into the decision
 in Sihor Nagar Palika (supra) observed as under :- 267-68, para 19)
 “19. After close scrutiny of the aforesaid
 observations, I am of the opinion that in view
 of the provisions of sub-rule (5) of Rule 5 of Order 41 CPC it cannot be held that appeal
 against the decree for payment of money is not
 maintainable, if filed without making
 compliance with the provisions contained in
 sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 of Order 41 CPC and it is
 the duty of the Registry to see that on
 application under Order 41 Rule 5 CPC seeking
 stay of money decree the appellant has to
 incorporate a note in regard to his readiness
 and willingness to comply with the directions
 under sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 of Order 41 CPC . If
 the appeal is preferred against the decree for
 payment of money without any stay
 application under Order 41 Rule 5 CPC then in
 that event, it is the duty of the appellant to
 incorporate a note in the memo of appeal in
 respect of his readiness and willingness to Page 30 of 73 comply with the directions issued by the court
 under sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 of Order 41 CPC .” 11. We may, however, notice that although the
provisions of sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 of Order 41
have been held not to be mandatory, this Court in
Kayamuddin Shamsuddin Khan v. SBI [(1998) 8
SCC 676] opined that non-compliance with a
direction to deposit the decretal amount or part of
it or furnish security therefor would result in the
dismissal of the stay application but not the entire
appeal, stating: (SCC p. 677, para 8)
 “8. This would mean that non-compliance with
 the direction given regarding deposit under
 sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 of Order 41 would result
 in the Court refusing to stay the execution of
 the decree. In other words, the application for
 stay of the execution of the decree could be
 dismissed for such non-compliance but the
 Court could not give a direction for the
 dismissal of the appeal itself for such non-
 compliance.”
 To the same effect is the decision of this Court
 in Sihor Nagar Palika Bureau v. Bhabhlubhai
 Virabhai & Co. [(2005) 4 SCC 1], wherein it
 was held: (SCC pp. 2-3, para 6)
 “6. Order 41 Rule 1(3) CPC provides that in an
 appeal against a decree for payment of
 amount the appellant shall, within the time
 permitted by the appellate court, deposit the
 amount disputed in the appeal or furnish such
 security in respect thereof as the court may
 think fit. Under Order 41 Rule 5(5), a deposit or
 security, as abovesaid, is a condition
 precedent for an order by the appellate court
 staying the execution of the decree. A bare
 reading of the two provisions referred to
 hereinabove, shows a discretion having been
 conferred on the appellate court to direct either
 deposit of the amount disputed in the appeal
 or to permit such security in respect thereof
 being furnished as the appellate court may
 think fit. Needless to say that the discretion is
 to be exercised judicially and not arbitrarily
 depending on the facts and circumstances of a
 given case. Ordinarily, execution of a money Page 31 of 73 decree is not stayed inasmuch as satisfaction
 of money decree does not amount to
 irreparable injury and in the event of the
 appeal being allowed, the remedy of restitution
 is always available to the successful party. Still the power is there, of course a
 discretionary power, and is meant to be
 exercised in appropriate cases.”

 To the same effect is the decision of this Court
 in B.P. Agarwal v. Dhanalakshmi Bank Ltd . [(2008) 3 SCC 397] 12. The High Court in this case failed to notice the
provisions of sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 of Order 41.
The appellate court, indisputably, has the
discretion to direct deposit of such amount, as it
may think fit, although the decretal amount has
not been deposited in its entirety by the judgment-
debtor at the time of filing of the appeal. But while
granting stay of the execution of the decree, it
must take into consideration the facts and
circumstances of the case before it. It is not to act
arbitrarily either way. If a stay is granted,
sufficient cause must be shown, which means
that the materials on record were required to be
perused and reasons are to be assigned. Such
reasons should be cogent and adequate. 13. The High Court, with respect, failed to notice
that suit was one under Order 37 of the Code.
Whether it was maintainable or not may fall for
consideration in the appeal. Even assuming that
the same was not maintainable, the question
which should have been posed by the High Court
was as to whether sufficient cause had been
made out to reverse the decree passed in favour
of the appellant. Even a decree could have been
passed having regard to the defence raised by the
respondent under Order 12 Rule 6 of the Code.
We, therefore, see no justification at all as to why
an order of stay of the nature was passed by the
High Court. 14. Even if the said provision is not mandatory,
the purpose for which such a provision has been
inserted should be taken into consideration. An
exceptional case has to be made out for stay of Page 32 of 73 execution of a money decree. The parliamentary
 intent should have been given effect to. The High
 Court has not said that any exceptional case has
 been made out. It did not arrive at the conclusion
 that it would cause undue hardship to the
 respondent if the ordinary rule to direct payment
 of the decretal amount or a part of it and/or
 directly through the judgment-debtor to secure the
 payment of the decretal amount is granted. A
 strong case should be made out for passing an
 order of stay of execution of the decree in its
 entirety.”
 (Emphasis supplied) 70. Thus, in Malwa Strips (supra), this Court unequivocally observed
 that although the word “shall” has been used in Order XLI Rule 5
 CPC , yet the same is not mandatory in character. The Court further
 observed that the purpose for which such a provision has been
 inserted, should be taken into consideration. An exceptional case
 has to be made out for unconditional stay of execution of a money
 decree. Thus, it is necessary to imply that if an exceptional case is
 made out, the Appellate court has the discretion to stay the
 execution of the money decree without imposing any condition. iii. Decisions of various High Courts on the Subject 71. We may now look into few old decisions of various High Courts on
 the subject. In the case of A.A. Khan v. Ameer Khan , reported in
 1949 SCC OnLine Kar 11, the High Court of Mysore has observed
 as follows (headnote):- 72. Similarly, the Division Bench of the Saurashtra High Court in the
 case of Borough Municipality v. Firm Ramji Vashram, reported
 in AIR 1955 Guj 113, has in terms held that the judgment of the
 Bombay High Court in the case of Dhunjibhoy Cowasji Umrigar v.
 Lisboa , reported in ILR 1889 13 Bom 252, cannot serve as a useful
 guide for cases under Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC . It is further
 observed therein that when the Bombay High Court decided the case
 of Dhunjibhoy (supra), the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code,
 1882, were applicable and therein, there was no provision similar to
 that of Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC . The relevant observations read
 thus:- 73. In the case, Movie Enterprises v. M.S. Periasamy Mudaliar ,
 reported in 1952 SCC OnLine Kar 14, the High Court of Mysore has
 observed as under (headnote): 74. In Borough Municipality (supra), the Saurashtra High Court
 referred to the Bombay High Court decision in the case of Dhunjibhoy (supra). We must look into this decision of Dhunjibhoy (supra). 75. In the case of Dhunjibhoy (supra), the Bombay High Court had
 observed that no stay of execution of money decree should be granted
 without asking the judgment debtor to deposit the decretal amount. In Dhunjibhoy (supra) the Bombay High Court held that: 76. The case of Dhunjibhoy (supra) was decided by the Bombay High
 Court on August 31, 1888, under the provisions of the Civil
 Procedure Code, 1882. In that Code, there was no provision similar
 to Order 41 Rule 5 of the CPC . Therefore, the order must be taken
 to have been passed by the court in exercise of its inherent powers.
 On the other hand, the facts and circumstances of the present case
 are governed by the provisions of the CPC , wherein there is an
 express provision regarding grant or refusal of stay of execution of
 decree. Hence, it is not permissible to the court to have recourse to
 the inherent powers of the court. This distinction makes a world of
 difference between the two situations. 77. It may also be noted that in Dhunjibhoy (supra), the suit was for
 injunction restraining the defendant from erecting a building which Page 36 of 73 will interfere with the free access of light and air through certain
 windows in the plaintiff's house. The plaintiff had obtained a decree
 in respect of the windows and had also obtained a decree for
 compensation by way of damages for the injury done to the
 windows. The decree also directed the defendant to pay the
 plaintiff's costs of the suit. The defendant had filed an appeal and
 a question arose regarding the execution of the decree so far as it
 related to costs. It is in this context, i.e., where the prayer was for
 recovery of the amount of costs awarded by the trial court, the
 aforesaid observations were made by the Bombay High Court. 78. Thus, it cannot be said as a principle of universal rule that in all
 cases of money decree, the defendant should be directed to deposit
 the amount in court and then only the question of stay be
 considered. 79. The decisions of the High Court of Mysore in A.A. Khan (supra) and Movie Enterprises (supra) have been followed by the Rajasthan
 High Court in the case of Bansidhar v. Pribhu Dayal , reported in
 1952 SCC OnLine Raj. 80. Then the question is: Is there an established practice that the
 execution of money decree should not be stayed unless the
 judgment debtor deposits the decretal amount in court, and on
 such deposit, the successful party be permitted to withdraw the
 money on furnishing security to the satisfaction of the court. We do
 observe that in a large number of cases where a money decree is
 passed, this Court generally does not grant stay unless the
 defendant deposits the amount in court. But this appears to be a
 rule of prudence and not a principle of law of universal application. We also believe and hold that this practice based on the rule of
 prudence should ordinarily be followed by appellate courts. The
 practice of not granting stay in money decrees except on condition
 that the decretal amount be deposited in the court, and the
 successful party be permitted to withdraw the same on furnishing
 security to the satisfaction of the trial court appears to have been
 well entrenched, and for good reasons. [See: Central Bank of India
 v. State of Gujarat , reported in (1987) 4 SCC 407] 81. Hence, the term “sufficient cause” occurring in Order XLI Rule 5 of
 the CPC has got to be interpreted and understood in the light of the
 aforesaid discussion. After all, what is “sufficient”? One may again
 turn to Black’s Law Dictionary. “Sufficient” means “adequate-
 enough” as much as may be necessary-equal or fit for end
 proposed-and that which may be necessary to accomplish an
 object. iv. Meaning and Import of “sufficient cause” under Order XLI
 Rule 5 of the CPC 82. Having regard to the case law discussed above and for reasons to be
 recorded, we are inclined or rather persuaded to take the view that the
 benefit of stay of execution of a money decree may be granted by the
 Appellate Court unconditionally, if it: 83. The aforesaid factors would bring the case within the purview of
 “exceptional case” for the purpose of granting benefit of unconditional
 stay of the execution of money decree. 84. We are at one with the submission canvassed on behalf of the
 defendant that in contradistinction to Order XLI, the word “deposit”
 does not figure in Rule 1(3), Rule 5(5) and Rule 5(3) respectively. 85. Under Rule 5(3) sub-clause (c) – security has to be furnished for “due
 performance” of the decree. We find it difficult to read any mandate for
 direction to deposit the decretal amount. 86. As noted above, the provision under Order XLI Rule 5(3) of the CPC provides for satisfaction regarding sufficient cause as a pre-condition
 for granting benefit of stay of execution of decree. It casts an obligation
 upon the court to record its satisfaction for stay of execution such
 decree. Therefore, security can be in the shape of property, bond, or by
 undertaking from the appellant to abide by the decree, seeking stay of
 execution. 87. However, there is no provision under Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC imposing a mandate to deposit cash security as the only mode of
 security for execution of the decree. v. Service of Summons and Irregularity in the Service of
 Summons 88. At this stage, we must deal with one submission canvassed on behalf
 of the petitioners that in view of the second Proviso to Order IX Rule 13
 of the CPC , the defendant could be said to have had the requisite
 “knowledge” of the date of hearing and sufficient time to appear. It was
 sought to be argued vehemently that the delivery of suit papers and the
 order granting ex parte injunction dated 12.10.2020 could be said to
 be valid service of summons. In this regard, strong reliance was sought
 to be placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Sunil Poddar Page 39 of 73 (supra) and the Delhi High Court judgment in the case of LT Foods (supra) respectively referred to above . 89. We do not find any merit in the aforesaid submission, for the simple
 reason that the second Proviso to Order IX Rule 13 of the CPC would
 come into play only when there is “irregularity” in the service of
 summons (for instance, the publication in wrong newspaper, no
 acknowledgment on duplicate summons being received etc). 90. This has been well explained by this Court in its decision in Basant
 Singh v. Roman Catholic Mission , reported in (2002) 7 SCC 531. In
 the case in hand, the High Court has noted that prima facie there was
 nothing on record to establish valid service of “summons”. If that be so,
 the second Proviso would not come into play. This proposition is again
 well explained by this Court in its decision Sushil Kumar Sabharwal
 v. Gurpreet Singh & Ors. , reported in (2002) 5 SCC 377. 91. In the aforesaid context, the reliance placed on behalf the petitioners,
 on the decision in Sunil Poddar (supra) is of no avail. The undisputed
 facts in the said case were that the parties had already filed their
 pleadings before the civil court much prior to the case being transferred
 to the DRT. The parties were also aware of the transfer of the suit to
 the DRT. Despite such knowledge the party concerned consciously
 avoided service of summons in those proceedings. The decision in Sunil Poddar (supra) is distinguishable on the facts. 92. In the case on hand, the Division Bench in its impugned judgment has
 prima facie noted that there was nothing to indicate whether: 93. In the same manner the decision of the Delhi High Court in LT Food (supra) is also of no avail as the same is distinguishable on the facts. 94. We now proceed to deal with the submission canvassed by Mr. Gaurav
 Pachnanda, the learned Senior Counsel in rejoinder as noted by us in
 paras 35 and 36 respectively of our judgment. vi. Reading of Section 36 of the Arbitration Act and Order
 XLI Rule 3 and Rule 5 respectively of the CPC 95. At this stage, we need to clarify something important. At the outset, we
 must state that this litigation has nothing to do with Section 36 of the
 Arbitration Act. In the present litigation, we are only concerned with
 Order XLI Rule 3 and 5 respectively, of the CPC . We are referring to Section 36 of the Arbitration Act only for the limited purpose of
 answering the specific contention raised by Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda. In
 other words, whether the learned counsel is right in extending the
 analogy of Section 36 of the Arbitration Act to the present case or rather
 to the provisions of Order XLI Rule 3 and 5 of the CPC , is inappropriate.
 For this limited purpose only, we have thought fit to look into the two
 decisions of this Court one in the case of Sepco Electric Power
 Construction v. Power Mech Projects Limited , reported in 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 1243, and the other, in the case of Pam Developments
 Private Limited v. State of West Bengal , reported in (2019) 8 SCC 112. 96. Section 36 reads thus: Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby clarified that the above proviso shall apply
to all court cases arising out of or in relation to
arbitral proceedings, irrespective of whether the
arbitral or court proceedings were commenced
prior to or after the commencement of the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act,
2015 (3 of 2016)”
 (Emphasis supplied) Page 42 of 73 97. Section 36 of the Arbitration Act was substituted vide the Arbitration
 and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2015 (for short, “the Amendment
 Act, 2015”). Prior to the 2015 Amendment, the mere filing of an
 application challenging arbitral award under Section 34 of the
 Arbitration Act was understood in many quarters as a stay of the award
 in terms of the unamended Section 36 of the Arbitration Act. 98. This “automatic stay” became a subject matter of legal debate as being
 a great obstacle to the ease of enforcement of arbitral awards. In such
 circumstances, and with a view to address this lacuna, the Amendment
 Act, 2015, was introduced in the Arbitration Act . Under the
 Amendment Act, 2015, the existing provision in Section 36 was wholly
 substituted. Sub-section (2) of the amended provision provided that the
 filing of an application to set aside the arbitral award did not by itself
 render the award unenforceable unless an order was passed by
 “granting a stay on the operation of the award pursuant to a separate
 application filed to that effect”. Therefore, Section 36(2) of the
 Arbitration Act contemplated a separate application seeking stay. 99. In Hindustan Construction Company & Anr. v. Union of India &
 Ors. , reported in (2020) 17 SCC 324, this Court held that there would
 be no automatic stay on the enforcement of an arbitral award under Section 36 of the Arbitration Act due to the mere fact that an
 application to set aside the award under Section 34 had been field
 before a court. In the said case, the constitutional validity of Section
 87 of the Arbitration Act as inserted by Section 13 of the Arbitration
 and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2019 (for short, “the Amendment
 Act, 2019 ”) was challenged along with repeal of Section 26 of the
 Amendment Act, 2015 by Section 15 of the Amendment Act, 2019. This
 Court in the final analysis held as under: 100. Section 36(3) of the Arbitration Act provides that upon such an
 application being filed, the court may grant a stay “subject to such
 conditions as it may deem fit” for reasons to be recorded in writing. In
 terms of Section 36(3) of the Arbitration Act, the Court is conferred with
 the discretionary power to grant a stay of an arbitral award. Such
 discretionary power flows from the usage of the words “may” for grant
 of stay and the employment of the phrase “such conditions as it may
 deem fit” for the conditions that may be imposed if a stay was granted.
 Therefore, in terms of Section 36(3) , the court retains its discretionary
 power to grant a stay of an arbitral award. 101. Further, the first Proviso to Section 36(3) provides that if the arbitral
 award was for payment of money, the court shall have “due regard” to
 the provisions for grant of stay of money decree under the CPC . 102. The aforesaid was, the legal position for a period of six years from 2016
 to 2021. In 2021, Section 36 of the Arbitration Act was once again
 amended with retrospective effect from 23.10.2015, vide the
 Arbitration and Conciliation Amendment Act, 2021 (for short, “the
 2021 Amendment”). The 2021 Amendment, inter alia, introduced a
 second Proviso to Section 36(3) which provided that if a prima facie
 case is made out that either the arbitration agreement/contract which
 is the basis of the award, or the making of the award was induced or
 effect by fraud or corruption, the Court “shall” stay the award
 “unconditionally” pending the disposal of the challenge. 103. As is clear from a plain reading of the second Proviso referred to above,
 it was provided that if, inter alia, the making of the award was induced
 or effected by fraud or corruption then the court was mandated to stay
 the award and such a stay was to be unconditional. 104. Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, the learned Senior Counsel would argue that
 the courts cannot grant the benefit of unconditional stay of an award
 in cases other than those covered by the second Proviso to Section 36(3) of the Arbitration Act. In the same manner, according to the learned
 Senior Counsel, when it comes to staying a money decree
 unconditionally, the judgment-debtor needs to make out more than a
 prima facie case of fraud or corruption, or something analogous to the
 same, and it is just not sufficient to point out our serious infirmities in
 the judgment granting money decree. 105. In the aforesaid context, we must look into the decision of this Court
 in the Sepco Electric (supra). In the said decision , this Court was
 dealing with an appeal against a judgment of the Delhi High Court
 where the learned Single Judge had granted a stay of the arbitral award
 subject to deposit of 100% of the award amount. This order was passed
 in an application filed under Section 9 of the Arbitration Act which was
 heard together with an application under Section 36(3) of the Act in a
 connected petition. This decision was affirmed in appeal by this Court
 which held that there were no grounds made out for interfering with
 the judgment below. 106.This Court, while considering the contention of the appellant therein
 observed that a court may grant an unconditional stay if it is
 appropriate to do so. While so observing, this Court stated that
 unconditional stays were covered by the second Proviso to Section
 36(3) . The relevant portions of the judgement are extracted below: 107.While this Court acknowledged that an unconditional stay could be
 granted in appropriate cases, it quickly followed up saying that the
 power to grant an unconditional stay is governed by the second Proviso
 to Section 36(3) . This may indicate that the Court acknowledged the
 grant of an unconditional stay to the existence of the grounds
 mentioned in the second Proviso. This would indicate that the benefit
 of unconditional stay could be granted only in cases of fraud or
 corruption. 108.Notwithstanding the above, this Court in order to fortify its conclusion
 in the case, subsequently also noted that the appellant therein was not
 able to show any cogent and glaring error that went to the root of the
 award. This observation was repeated later where the Court stated that
 no cogent ground had been made out even, prima facie, for interference
 with the impugned award. The relevant observations are extracted
 below: 109.After arriving at such a finding, this Court proceeded to dismiss the
 appeal. Therefore, the observations referred to above formed part of this
 Court’s reasoning in arriving at its decision. 110.The aforesaid observations of this Court would suggest that the Court
 thought it fit to consider the merits of the award at a prima facie level
 in order to decide whether the conditional stay of the award was
 justified or not. In the facts of the present case, the Court felt that it
 was justified. 111.In light of the abovementioned observations, it is possible to
 legitimately argue that if the second Proviso to Section 36(3) was the
 sole source for granting an unconditional stay, there would have been
 no occasion for the Court to examine whether any prima facie cogent
 ground that went to the root of the award is forthcoming or not.
 Therefore, by relying upon this Court’s observations, it could be
 plausibly argued that in exceptional cases an unconditional stay can
 be granted even in cases not arising under the second proviso to Section 36(3) . Such unconditional stay would instead be relatable to
 the main part of Section 36(3) . 112.The above reading of Sepco Electric (supra) would also be in tune with
 the discretionary power of the court under the main part of Section
 36(3) both with respect to the power to grant stay and the power to
 impose conditions if a stay is granted. After all, it is not inconceivable
 to contend that a power to impose conditions would also include the
 power not to impose conditions. 113.Be that as it may, Sepco Electric (supra) does not clearly answer the
 question whether an unconditional stay can be granted in cases not Page 48 of 73 covered by the second Proviso to Section 36(3) . This confusion remains
 because while the Court states an unconditional stay can be granted
 in cases covered by the second Proviso, it does not categorically exclude
 the possibility of an unconditional stay in cases not covered by the
 second proviso. 114.This Court in Pam Developments (supra) had occasion to consider the
 nature of applicability of provisions of the CPC vis-à-vis the proceedings
 under the Arbitration Act , and specifically, the interpretation of the
 phrase “due regard” appearing in the first Proviso. The respondent
 therein had preferred an application seeking an unconditional stay of
 the arbitral award on the strength of Order XXVII Rule 8A, CPC which
 inter alia exempted Government from furnishing a security while
 seeking stay of a decree. Aggrieved by the application being allowed by
 the Calcutta High Court, the appellant-award holder approached this
 Court. 115.This Court allowed the appeal and directed deposit of the award
 amount as a condition for continuing the stay. The Court reasoned that
 the exemption from furnishing security under Order XXVII Rule 8A that
 would otherwise be applicable to the ordinary civil proceedings could
 not be strictly applied to the arbitration proceedings. Therefore, the
 respondent-government could not have relied upon that provision to
 avoid furnishing security for staying the award. The Court further held that even if the exemption from furnishing security was made
 applicable to the arbitration proceedings, such exemption would not
 extend to making deposit of the award amounts. This was based on the
 Court’s interpretation of the difference between Order XXVII Rule 8A
 which was introduced in 1937 and exempted furnishing of ‘security’
 and sub-rule (5) of Rule 5 of Order XLI that was introduced in 1976 Page 49 of 73 and which differentiated between ‘security’ and ‘deposit’. The Court
 also referred to the implications of a provision introduced during the
 colonial period and its continuance in the present constitutional set-
 up. 116.This Court in Pam Developments (supra) held that the phrase “due
 regard” would only mean that the provisions of CPC are to be taken
 into consideration and not that they are mandatory. The relevant
 observations are extracted below: contained Act, the provisions of CPC will apply
 only insofar as the same are not inconsistent with
 the spirit and provisions of the Arbitration Act .”
 (Emphasis supplied) 117.On the strength of the above reasoning, this Court held that the
 exemption from furnishing security could not be applied to the
 arbitration proceedings. The Court clarified that while courts must
 have due regard to the CPC , they are not rigidly bound by its
 provisions. The CPC serves as a guiding framework rather than a strict
 mandate because the Arbitration Act being a self-contained Act is to be
 first applied by the court. 118.Although not explicitly stated by the Court as a reason for its decision,
 yet this Court did note the consequence of accepting the contention
 that Order XXVII Rule 8A was applicable. The result would be that
 wherever the government was the judgment-debtor in the arbitration
 proceedings, it would be entitled to an unconditional stay on the mere
 filing of an application under Section 36(2) . 119.While Pam Developments (supra) relied on the phrase “due regard”
 appearing in the first Proviso to decline the rigid application of an
 exemption from furnishing security provided under the CPC it could
 also be argued that insisting on a conditional stay in all cases of a
 money award would be a rigid application of Order XLI Rule 5. This is
 because Rule 5 mandates the furnishing of security or deposit as a
 condition for granting stay. Relying on Pam Developments (supra), it
 could possibly be argued that “due regard” to the provisions of CPC ,
 especially Order XLI Rule 5, would not mean a mandatory grant of
 conditional stay in all cases. This is because the provisions of the Act,
 especially Section 36 , would have to be first applied wherein a
 discretionary power is vested in the court. 120. If the first Proviso has to be interpreted as done in Pam Developments (supra) and merits of the award have to be considered on a prima facie
 level as done in Sepco Electric (supra), it is difficult to rule out the
 existence of an unconditional stay in cases outside the second Proviso. A closer analysis of the decision in Sepco Electric (supra) and this
 Court’s interpretation of the first proviso in Pam Developments (supra)
 suggests that unconditional stays can be granted even in cases outside
 the second Proviso. 121.At this stage, we must look into one decision of the Bombay High Court
 in the case of ITD Cementation India Ltd. v. Urmi Trenchless
 Technology Pvt. Ltd. , reported in 2020 SCC OnLine Bom 10611,
 wherein the High Court after referring to and relying upon Pam
 Developers (supra) observed as under: 122.In such circumstances referred to above , we find it difficult to subscribe
 to the submission of Mr. Gaurav Pachnanda, that even for the purpose
 of grant of benefit of unconditional stay of money decree under Order Page 52 of 73 XLI Rule 5 of the CPC , the judgment-debtor has to make out more than
 a prima facie case of fraud or corruption and not solely on the basis of
 an extreme or egregious view on the merits of the adjudication. 123.We once again clarify that the analogy of Section 36 of the Arbitration
 Act sought to be applied is inappropriate. The decision of this Court in Pam Developments (supra) should also be understood and confined
 only to matters relating to arbitration, more particularly, Section 36 of
 the Arbitration Act. 124. We are of the view that if fraud or corruption or something analogous
 to the same is only to be seen for the purpose of granting benefit of
 unconditional stay of execution of money decree then in such
 circumstances, the decree holder may argue that although there may
 not be a valid service of summons to the defendant/judgment-debtor
 yet, the same by itself would not be sufficient to grant the benefit of
 unconditional stay of execution of money decree. This would lead to
 nothing but serious miscarriage of justice. vi. Relevant aspects which the High Court looked into for the
 purpose of granting unconditional stay 125.The first thing that the Division Bench of the High Court looked into
 was that the suit had proceeded in the absence of the respondent
 herein. In the aforesaid context, the findings recorded by the Division
 Bench may be looked into: The mere fact that learned Senior Counsel
appearing for Cloudtail advanced a submission,
on behalf of his client as well as on behalf of
Amazon Tech, that they were willing to suffer
reasonable damages, cannot be seen as proof of
Amazon Tech being aware of the proceedings or
deliberately refraining from participating therein.
Even prior to this date, Amazon Tech had been
proceeded ex parte on 20 April 2022. As a matter
of fact, therefore, Amazon Tech was never present
before the learned Single Judge on any date of
hearing. 170. When one peruses the orders passed in the
suit, vis-à-vis the notings of the Registry, it
becomes apparent that, in fact, no summons in
the suit were ever served on Amazon Tech. This,
to our mind, is a serious infirmity, which may
plague all other proceedings. Amazon Tech was
proceeded ex parte, by the learned Single Judge,
on 20 April 2022. In the order passed by the
learned Joint Registrar on 7 July 2021, which
was the immediately preceding effective date, it
was specifically noted that there was no report
regarding service of the suit on Amazon Tech. In
the circumstances, Lifestyle was directed to file
an affidavit of service. No affidavit of service was
filed by Lifestyle, between 7 July 2021 and 20
April 2022. The only affidavit of service which
was filed by Lifestyle was of 25 March 2021. That
affidavit enclosed, by it, an email dated 8 March
2021. No email, after 8 March 2021, was sent by
Lifestyle to Amazon Tech. There is no question of
the summons having been served by the email
dated 8 March 2021, as the delay in filing process
fee was condoned only on 16 April 2021. After 16 Page 54 of 73 April 2021, the summons have never been sent to
Amazon Tech, by any means of communication
including email. It was for this reason that the
order dated 7 July 2021 of the learned Joint
Registrar required Lifestyle to file an affidavit of
service. This was never done. As such, it is
apparent that the learned Single Judge was in
error in proceeding ex parte against Amazon Tech
by order dated 20 April 2022. 171. In fact, even before us, Mr. Pachnanda, with
characteristic candour and forthrightness, did not
seek to contend that formal service of summons
on Amazon Tech, as directed by the Court while
issuing summons on 12 October 2020, ever took
place. His submission is, however, that, prior to
issuance of summons by the Court on 12 October
2020, as well as by way of attachment to the
email dated 8 March 2021, all the documents
relating to the suit, as well as applications filed
therewith, were forwarded to Amazon Tech.
Besides, due compliance with the requirements of
the proviso to Order XXXIX Rule 13 of the CPC was also ensured. In these circumstances, Mr.
Pachnanda’s submission is that the learned
Single Judge was correct in holding that Amazon
Tech deliberately absented itself from the
proceedings and cannot, now, therefore, seek to
raise a grievance that it was proceeded ex parte. 172. We cannot, in law, accept the submission. 173. The law does not require a defendant to
enter appearance in a suit, unless summons in
the suit are served on it. The Commercial Courts
Act, 2015 contains strict provisions in that regard.
No amount of service, on the defendant, of the
papers relating to the suit, by the plaintiff, absent
actual summons issued by the suit, can compel a
defendant, in law, to enter appearance. The law
does not permit a defendant to be proceeded ex
parte, even before summons in the suit are served
on it. This is plain, and elementary. The learned
Single Judge could not, therefore, have proceeded
against Amazon Tech ex parte on 20 April 2022, Page 55 of 73 even before formal summons in the suit had been
served on it. In doing so, it appears that the
learned Single Judge was not made aware of the
order passed by the learned Joint Registrar on
the immediately preceding date, i.e. 7 July 2021,
in which it was specifically noted that there was
no report regarding service of the suit on Amazon
Tech. In holding that Amazon Tech had not
appeared despite service and, therefore,
proceeding against Amazon Tech ex parte,
therefore, we are of the opinion that the learned
Single Judge materially erred in law and on facts. 174. This, by itself, is a lapse serious enough to
vitiate all proceedings in the suit after 20 April
2022, at least insofar as the appellant Amazon
Tech is concerned. It also, therefore, suffices,
even by itself and independent of all other
considerations, as enough to justify
entertainment of the present appeal without
requiring any deposit of the decretal amount to be
made by Amazon Tech. 175. We also find considerable substance in the
submission of learned Senior Counsel for the
appellant Amazon Tech that, in any event, all
these developments took place at a time when the
damage claimed by Lifestyle were only to the
tune of ₹ 2,00,05,000/-. Enhancement of these
damages are necessarily to be proceeded by an
amendment of the plaint, of which Amazon Tech
had to be put on due notice. This was never done.
In fact, the written submissions filed by Lifestyle,
which enhanced the damages, earlier computed
at ₹ 20,005,000/– to ₹ 3780 crores, were also not
served on the Appellant Amazon Tech. In
accepting the enhancement of the claim for
damages, therefore, we agree with learned Senior
Counsel for the appellant Amazon Tech that the
learned Single Judge has not acted strictly in
accordance with the law. 176. In some circumstances, we are also of the
opinion that lifestyle cannot seek sanctuary
behind Order VII Rule 2 or Order VII rule 7 of the Page 56 of 73 CPC , or even Rule 120 of the IPD Rules. Order VII
Rule 2, in fact requires a plaint, seeking recovery
of money, to state the precise claimed amount.
The proviso to Order VII Rule 2 applies only in
cases of suits for mesne profits, or for an amount
which would be found on rendition of accounts
between the Plaintiff and the Defendant, or for
movables in the possession of the defendant or
debts of which the value cannot be reasonably
estimated at that stage. The present suit does not
fall within any of these categories. The suit does
not claim mesne profits, or value of movables in
the possession of the defendants, or any debt of
which the value was not ascertainable. Moreover,
para 86 of the impugned judgment records the
submission of Lifestyle that it was not pressing
for its prayer for rendition of accounts. In that
view of the matter, the proviso to Order VII Rule 2
of the CPC would not apply, and the main
provision, which requires the precise claim to be
quantified in the suit, would apply with all force.
The precise amount quantified in the suit was
only ₹ 2,00,05,000/–. There is, therefore,
substance in the contention of learned Senior
Counsel for Amazon Tech that, without an
amendment of the plaint, the damages could not
have been enhanced, much less to ₹ 3780 crores. 177. Order VII Rule 7, plainly, does not apply, as
it exempts a plaintiff from requiring to claim
“general or other relief”, apart from the specific
relief sought in the plaint. 178. In any event, what lies at stake, here, is
something far more empirical. The question that
is required to be addressed is whether (i) a claim
for damages, assessed in the plaint at ₹
2,00,05,000/–, could be inflated to ₹ 3780 crores
merely in written submissions filed by the
plaintiff after conclusion of arguments, without
amending the plaint and without even serving a
copy of the written submissions on a defendant
against whom the enhanced damages were
claimed and (ii) the Court would, in such
circumstances, have awarded damages in excess Page 57 of 73 of ₹ 336 crores, without any prior opportunity to
 the concerned defendant to contest the proposed
 judgment.” 126.The second relevant aspect that the Division Bench looked into was
 the fact that there were no pleadings of infringement against the
 respondent herein worth the name. In this regard, the following
 observations are relevant: These allegations are completely defeated by the
 assertions in the replication filed by Lifestyle, to
 the written statement of Cloudtail – also
 reproduced supra – that it was Cloudtail
 manufacturing and selling the apparel bearing
 the mark, and, thereby, infringing Lifestyle’s
 registered trademark. 159. Para 41 goes on to state that ASSPL was
 selling products of Amazon Tech on its platform
 under the trademark ‘SYMBOL’, bearing the
 infringing mark. This allegation, again, is
 incorrect. The products sold by ASSPL were not of
 Amazon Tech, but of Cloudtail. The only
 connection of Amazon Tech, with the said Page 58 of 73 products, was the ‘SYMBOL’ mark, which
Cloudtail affixed on the said apparel under
license from Amazon Tech. This does not, in any
way, connect Amazon Tech with the infringing
mark. 160. In fact, after making such bald and
unsubstantiated allegations, Lifestyle, in the
same para 41 of the plaint, acknowledges that it
was not certain about the actual relation between
Amazon Tech, Cloudtail and ASSPL. Obviously,
the allegations against Amazon Tech, regarding
its complicity in the affixation of the mark on the
apparel sold by Cloudtail on the ASSPL platform,
were merely shots in the dark, without any
knowledge of the actual state of affairs. In fact,
para 46 of the plaint acknowledges the fact that
the invoice, raised by ASSPL, with respect to the
apparel purchased by Lifestyle, only contained
the name and details of Cloudtail. Despite this,
para 48 of the plaint alleges that it was an
“admitted case of Defendant No 3 (ASSPL) that
orders for the infringing product of the Defendant
No 1 (Amazon Tech) are being fulfilled by
Defendant No 2 (Cloudtail)”, without any such
“admitted case” being available on record. The
plaint does not disclose where this “admission” is
to be found. 161. At this juncture, we may also refer to the
affidavits dated 21 July 2022 and 1 September
2022 of ASSPL, on which Mr. Pachnanda sought
to place reliance as supporting the finding of the
learned Single Judge, in the impugned judgment,
that Amazon Tech, Cloudtail and ASSPL
constitute a “cohesive commercial entity”. We find
no such inference being forthcoming from the
affidavits. In any case, we are not concerned,
here, with the interlink, as commercial entities,
between Amazon Tech, Cloudtail and ASSPL.
They are, admittedly, independent commercial
entities, as was, in fact, noted by the learned
Single Judge in the order dated 12 October 2020,
reproduced in para 19 of the impugned
judgement. What is to be seen is whether there Page 59 of 73 was any material to indicate involvement of
 Amazon Tech in the allegedly infringing activities
 of Cloudtail. There is, in fact, none. 162. Apart from this, the plaint only refers,
 repeatedly, to the infringing mark as belonging to
 Amazon Tech and has having been adopted by it.
 No factual basis for these allegations is
 forthcoming. 163. We have already explained, in para 18 to 26
 supra, why it cannot be said that any substantial
 allegation of involvement, by Amazon Tech, in the
 allegedly infringing activities of Cloudtail, by
 affixation of the mark on the apparel sold by it,
 can be said to exist. 164. This, therefore, is not merely a case in which
 damages have been awarded against Amazon
 Tech without any finding, by the learned Single
 Judge, of involvement, in the alleged infringing
 activities, but is, in fact, a case where no such
 pleadings exist.” 127.The third aspect which the Division Bench looked into was one
 relating to no pleadings for the purpose of claiming Rs.
 3,36,02,87,000/- towards damages. In this regard, the findings
 recorded are: 137. Mr. Pachnanda sought to submit that the
 damages to which the Plaintiff is entitled need not
 be specifically computed and claimed in the
 pleadings. The submission, in our view, begs the
 issue. This is not merely a case where there are
 no pleadings, supporting the damages of ₹ 3780
 crores, claimed by Lifestyle in its written
 submissions, or the damages of ₹
 336,02,87,000/-which ultimately came to be
 awarded by the learned Single Judge. Even the
 basis for the claim of ₹ 3780 crores, all for the
 amount of ₹ 336,02,87,000/-which was
 ultimately awarded, is not to be found anywhere
 in the pleadings of Lifestyle. 138. The basis for the claim for damages are, at
 all costs, to be contained in the pleadings of the
 Plaintiff. It cannot be reserved for evidence. It is a
 legal truism that evidence cannot traverse the
 pleadings.” 128.The fourth aspect that the Division Bench looked into was the fact
 that the learned Single Judge had recorded no findings as regards the
 role of the respondent herein in the alleged infringement. The relevant
 observations are as under: infringement – with which there can be no serious
cavil. Following this, however, the learned Single
Judge was on to note that the brand ‘Symbol’,
being used by Cloudtail, was owned by Amazon
Tech. This is also; however, is difficult to
understand how the ownership, by Amazon Tech,
of the brand ‘Symbol’ is of any relevance. The
mark ‘Symbol’ is, quite clearly, not infringing in
nature. 144. In fact, even the plaint in the suit does not so
assert. The case that Lifestyle has sought to build
up, in the plaint, is that, as the infringing mark
figured on the same apparel, which bore the
‘SYMBOL’ mark of Amazon Tech, Amazon Tech
could not escape liability from the tort of
infringement by use of the mark. In our
considered view, the said plea, which has
apparently found favour with the learned Single
Judge in the impugned judgment, has no basis in
law. 145. The learned Single Judge proceeds to lay
considerable stress on order dated 5 September Page 62 of 73 2022, passed in the suit, particularly on the
opening sentence of the order, which reads: 146. Para 47 of the impugned judgment observed
that Amazon Tech, Cloudtail and ASSPL were
“closely related to or interlinked with each other”.
Para 48 records that “it is a matter of public
knowledge that the www.amazon.in platform is
closely linked with Defendant No. 1”, i.e. the
present appellant Amazon Tech. To a large extent,
it is clear that the impugned judgement proceeds
on the premise that Amazon Tech, Cloudtail and
ASSPL, i.e., all the defendants, were acting in
concert and were one commercial entity. 147. We also find, prima facie, that the learned
Single Judge has, in para 52 of the impugned Page 63 of 73 judgment, completely misread the Licensing
Agreement dated 23 December 2015 as fastening
liability on Amazon Tech for infringement
whereas, in fact, it does nothing of the kind. The
learned Single Judge observes that the License
Agreement dated 23 December 2015, between
Amazon Tech and Cloudtail indicated “that
Amazon retains significant control over
Cloudtail’s branding and distribution activities”.
Following this, the learned Single Judge returns
an opinion that “the clauses in the Agreement
clearly diminish Amazon’s liability to distance
itself from the alleged infringement committed by
Cloudtail”, that “the contractual restrictions on
unauthorised trademark use, coupled with
indemnification obligations, provide strong legal
grounds for (Lifestyle) to argue Amazon’s direct
involvement in trademark infringement”, “the
agreement being a license agreement, Defendant
No. 1 being a licensor an Defendant No. 2 being a
licensee, any infringement or unlawful use by the
licensee would also affix liability about the
licensor”, “while licensing the word mark
SYMBOL” Amazon would be unable to distance
itself from the use of the accompanying horse logo
device mark” and that “thus, the consequences of
infringement squarely fall upon Defendant No. 1”. 148. We are, prima facie, unaware of any law
which supports these observations and findings.
The Licensing Agreement dated 23 December
2015 was restricted to the ‘SYMBOL’ mark,
owned by Amazon Tech. Amazon Tech had, by
the agreement, licensed, to Cloudtail, the right to
use the mark ‘SYMBOL’. The agreement does
nothing beyond this. By no stretch of imagination
could be Licensing Agreement be read as
authorising Cloudtail to affix, on the apparel sold
by it, the allegedly infringing mark. In fact, the
Licensing Agreement makes no reference to the
said mark at all, obviously because Amazon Tech
had no concern with the said mark. If, therefore,
Cloudtail did affix the mark on the apparel sold
by it, it certainly did not do so by virtue of any
authorisation or permission granted by the
Licensing Agreement dated 23 December 2015. In Page 64 of 73 fact, the Licensing Agreement contained a specific
clause proscribing any infringement, by Cloudtail,
of the trademark of any third party, and
indemnified Amazon Tech in that regard. 149. The observations contained in para 52 of the
impugned judgment, extracted by us earlier in
paragraph 139, are unsupported by law. In a
Licensing Agreement, whereby and whereunder
Amazon Tech had only licensed, to Cloudtail, the
right to use the ‘SYMBOL’ mark, we are unable to
understand how Amazon Tech could be fastened
with liability for use, by Cloudtail, of the mark,
with which the Licensing Agreement – and,
indeed, Amazon Tech itself – had no concern. 150. Needless to say, a licence by one party to
another, to do a particular act, cannot render the
first party liable for every infringing or illegal act
committed by the second, in the absence of any
material to indicate that the commission of the
illegal infringing act was also authorised by the
license. The findings in para 52 of the impugned
judgment, in our prima facie view, are contrary to
this principle which, according to us, is practically
fossilized in the law. They, therefore, suffer from
patent illegality. 151. In para 98, the learned Single Judge
observes that the judgment would proceed to
examine, inter alia, “the degree of culpability of
the Defendants”. Paras 98 to 99 proceed,
apparently, to record certain observations
regarding Amazon Tech which, in our view, are
not incriminating in any manner. Before,
however, adverting thereto, the learned Single
Judge observes, in para 98 and in the opening
part of para 99 of the impugned judgment, that
the mark ‘SYMBOL’, of which the right to use had
been licensed by Amazon Tech to Cloudtail, was
used “along with” the infringing mark, on the
apparel sold by Cloudtail. Even if it was, we are
unable to understand how any liability or
responsibility for infringement, on the ground, be
fastened on Amazon Tech. Amazon Tech was not
the manufacturer of the apparel on which the
infringing mark was used. It had never licensed, Page 65 of 73 to Cloudtail, the right to use the infringing mark,
with which, in fact, it had no concern. In fact,
Cloudtail itself conceded, before this Court on 2
March 2023, that the decision to use the
infringing mark on the apparel sold by was not of
Amazon, but of Cloudtail itself. Unfortunately, the
learned Single Judge has entirely overlooked this
concession, regarding which no objection or
reservation was ever expressed by Lifestyle,
either before this Court on 2 March 2023 or at any
point thereafter. In view thereof, it is plainly
obvious that the affixation, on the apparel sold by
Cloudtail, of the infringing logo, could not
incriminate Amazon Tech in any manner, merely
because the same apparel also happened to carry
the ‘SYMBOL’ mark, the use of which had been
licensed by Amazon Tech to Cloudtail. 152. Para 99 of the impugned judgment proceeds
to observe that Amazon Tech was “one of the most
dominant players in the ecommerce space”, that
it “possesses ways and means to utilise its
dominant presence in the e-commerce space to
promote its own products as also products which
it might otherwise wish to promote”, and that it
had “the leverage through its own platforms to
dilute Plaintiff’s brand/logo by indulging in deep-
discounting of its own products which compete
with the Plaintiff by using a similar mark/logo”.
These findings are, prima facie, entirely in the
realm of presumption and conjecture. They reflect
an impression, by the learned Single Judge, that
Amazon Tech was in a position to indulge in
infringing activities by means such as deep
discounting – with respect to which there is not
even a whisper of an allegation against Amazon
Tech in the entire plaint of Lifestyle – and that,
therefore, it must have done so. On the face of it,
we are of the view that these findings suffer from
perversity in law, and cannot, therefore, sustain. 153. Para 99 goes on further to observe that “it is
well known reality that all 3 Defendants belong
to the Amazon Group of Companies and operate
as a cohesive commercial entity”. This finding has
nothing forthcoming, available on the record, to
support it. There is certainly no pleading to that Page 66 of 73 effect. The plaint, filed by Lifestyle, does not
 allege, even indirectly, that Amazon Tech,
 Cloudtail and ASSPL constituted a “cohesive
 commercial entity”. A finding that 3 companies,
 which are independent corporate ventures,
 constitute a cohesive commercial entity, cannot be
 returned without any pleading to that effect. We
 are constrained to observe that the learned Single
 Judge has, in so holding, made out a case in
 favour of Lifestyle which it itself did not plead. 154. There are no other findings, in the impugned
 judgment, against Amazon Tech. Of course, the
 learned Single Judge has adversely commented
 on what she perceives as Amazon Tech’s
 deliberate absence from the proceedings in the
 suit. Even if it were to be presumed, merely for
 the sake of argument, that Amazon Tech took a
 conscious decision not to participate in the suit
 proceedings, that cannot justify mulcting it with
 damages of ₹ 336,02,87,000/-. 155. The case, therefore, is one of awarding,
 against Amazon Tech and in favour of Lifestyle,
 of damages of ₹ 336,02,87,000/-, without any
 sustainable finding of infringement, or of
 complicity in infringement, against Amazon
 Tech.” 129. If the Division Bench after looking into all the relevant aspects referred
 to above thought fit to grant benefit of unconditional stay of execution
 of money decree then, applying the principles of law discussed by us,
 it cannot be said that the Division Bench committed any error much
 less an error of law in passing the impugned judgment and order. 130.It goes without saying that whatever has been observed by the Division
 Bench in its impugned judgment and order is not an expression of any
 final opinion but are prima face observations for the purpose of
 granting the relief as prayed for by the respondents. 131.It is necessary for us to observe that the Court’s jurisdiction over a
 respondent is founded on a valid service of summons. Without a valid
 service, the Court cannot acquire jurisdiction over the respondent,
 unless the defendant voluntarily submits to it. The original defendant-
 respondent must be properly be apprised of a pending action against
 him and assured of the opportunity to present his defenses to the suit.
 Proper service of summons is used to protect one’s right to due process. 132. In an action strictly in personam, personal service on the defendant is
 the preferred mode of service, i.e., by handing a copy of the summons
 to the defendant in person. If defendant, for excusable reasons, cannot
 be served with the summons within a reasonable period, then
 substituted service can be resorted to. While substituted service of
 summons is permitted, "it is extraordinary in character and in
 derogation of the usual method of service." 133.In the case in hand, what is important for us to note is the Order passed
 by the Joint Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court of Delhi dated
 01.03.2021 which reads thus: 2 & 3 with affidavit of admission/denial. 2. Replication to the written statement of the
 defendant no.3 with affidavit of
 admission/denial of the documents has been
 filed by the plaintiff. 3. It is submitted by counsel for the plaintiff that
 replication and affidavit of admission/denial of
 the documents qua the defendant no.2 has also
 been filed but the same is lying under scrutiny.
 Let necessary steps be taken to ensure that
 replication and affidavit of admission/denial of
 the documents are placed on record. 4. Affidavit of service filed by the plaintiff reflects
 that entire paper book was delivered to the
 defendant no.1 through speed post and courier. However, from the report of the Registry it
 appears that PF was not filed for service of the
 defendant no.1 and summons of the suit through
 e-mail and Whatsapp were not issued to the
 defendant no.1 as per orders of the Hon’ble Court
 which is dated 12/10/2020. Let the order be
 complied with, and process be Issued, returnable
 for the next date. 5. Re-notify the matter for completion of service,
 completion of pleadings and admission/denial of
 the documents on 22"'' April, 2021.”
 (Emphasis supplied)

 F. CONCLUSION 134. We summarize our final conclusion on the grant of benefit of stay of
 execution of a decree by an appellate court in term of Order XLI as
 under: - In order to ascertain whether a “sufficient cause” exists for the
 grant of stay of execution of a decree under Order XLI of the
 CPC , the appellate court as per sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 is
 required to examine:- prescription thereof does not operate as a bar to staying the
 execution of a money decree. (XI) There is no provision under Order XLI Rule 5 of the CPC imposing a mandate to deposit cash security as the only mode
 of security for execution of the decree. Security, for the
 purpose of the said provision, can be in the shape of property,
 bond and or in the form of an appropriate undertaking from
 the appellant to abide by the decree, seeking stay of execution. 135.In view of the aforesaid, we have reached the conclusion that we
 should not disturb the impugned judgment and order passed by the
 Division Bench of the High Court. 136.It is needless to clarify that the main appeal shall be decided on its
 own merits and without being influenced in any manner by any of the
 observations made in the impugned judgment and order passed by
 the High Court including our judgment. 137.It shall be open for the parties to put forward all contentions available
 to them in law at the time of the final hearing of the Regular First
 Appeal. 138.Registry shall forward one copy each of this judgment to all the High
 Courts. ……………...................J.
 [J.B. PARDIWALA]

 ...................................J.
 [K.V. VISWANATHAN]

New Delhi; 7th October, 2025.