The deadline to comply with a 30 percent volume cap on market share has been extended by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), according to the latest circular released by the corporation. The circular added that the deadline is now set for December 31, 2024, as opposed to December 31, 2022.

“Taking into account the present usage and future potential of UPI [Unified Payments Interface], and other relevant factors, the timelines for compliance of existing TPAPs [Third Party App Providers or service providers] who are exceeding the volume cap, is extended by…” read the circular while explaining the reason behind the extension.

Why it matters: The circular is significant as it is bound to bring relief to major UPI companies like PhonePe and Google Pay which have a market share of 46 percent and 34 percent respectively.

What else did the circular say: The NPCI said that it was imperative for other existing and new players such as banks and non-banks to scale up their consumer outreach for the growth of UPI and achieve overall market equilibrium.

It remains to be seen how companies rush to comply with the circulars but it is unlikely they will make any headway as is evident from PhonePe’s Founder and CEO Sameer Nigam’s statement to Moneycontrol .

What did he say: Nigam said that he was not sure there will be a “significant change” in the market share of companies, and NPCI will have to keep extending the market cap indefinitely.

What is the 30 percent cap: NPCI announced the 30 percent cap on UPI transaction volumes in November 2020 and gave existing players two years, starting January 2021, to comply with the mandate in a phased manner.

What UPI apps are saying: While the third-largest UPI app, Paytm, wanted the market cap to be instituted as per the existing schedule, PhonePe and Google Pay approached NPCI seeking an extension of at least three years, The Economic Times said in its report in July 2022 indicating that NPCI was looking to extend the deadline for its 30 percent mandate because making the market leaders scale back might lead to market disruption for consumers.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event