“It is not enough to fight terrorism in the physical space; it is now spreading its presence through online radicalisation and cyber threats,” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his address at the 90th General Assembly of Interpol in New Delhi.

Why it matters: It is no secret that cyber attacks are being perceived as a major threat across the world. It is important to note how Interpol is deliberating upon the issue as it may provide insight into how countries are looking to tackle cyber crime within their borders. Modi’s comments underline the significance of a coordinated strategy.

Fighting cybercrime: Modi warned that an attack can be executed at the click of a button, bringing the system to its knees. Modi added that there was a need to develop a cohesive international strategy.

Proposed measures: Modi suggested that measures like the establishment of early detection and warning systems, protecting transportation and communication infrastructure, improving the security of critical infrastructure, technical assistance, and intelligence exchange, among others, must be “taken to a new level”.

“Each nation is working on strategies against them. But what we do within our borders is no longer enough,” he averred.

India gets access to Interpol database: The country has joined a special international anti-crime network operated by Interpol, according to The New Indian Express . The network consists of 19 databases containing 126 million records which include DNA profiles and facial recognition images, the report added.

Interpol’s findings: The body noted that crime has moved online, and cyber-enabled financial crimes, such as business email compromise, CEO fraud (where cybercriminals impersonate executives), e-commerce scams and investment fraud, have escalated in every region of the world in its report .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event