Google is testing a new feature in search that would show a blue ‘verified’ tick marks next to websites considered to be genuine. According to the Verge , the feature is supposed to help shoppers differentiate genuine websites from fraudulent imitators.

Hovering the cursor over a checkmark will display the following statement, “Google’s signals suggest that this business is the business that it says it is. Google can’t guarantee the reliability of this business or its products.”

While the company hasn’t officially announced the feature, a Google spokesperson confirmed that they were experimenting with showing blue tick marks next to certain businesses. The verified status is determined by website verification, Google Merchant Center data and manual reviews.

Google, holding a dominant position in the search engine market, is often the first stop for online shoppers who use the platform to find sellers. However, there are often many fake websites or other scams in the search results.

Last year, the tech giant filed a lawsuit against a bad actor who created hundreds of fraudulent business profiles, generated thousands of fake reviews for these profiles, and finally sold these profiles or information about consumers obtained through these profiles to real businesses. It also removed as many as 3 million fake business profiles from Google Maps in 2018.

Google has also been conducting multiple experiments with its search engines in the recent past. The most well-known of these is perhaps AI Overviews, which would display an AI-generated summary of content from various websites in response to search queries. Ironically, the Overviews themselves became infamous for being inaccurate and misleading.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event