1. Kumar Saurav @ Kumar Sourav, S/o Sri Balram Prasad
 Singh, Village Akhtiyarpur, P.S. Mahua, District Vaishali
 (Bihar). 2. Pragat Rana, S/o of Basdev Rana, resident of Mohanpur,
 P.S. & District Giridih (Jharkhand). .......... Petitioners. -Versus- The State of Jharkhand .......... Opp. Party. ----- CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJESH SHANKAR ----- 1. The petitioners are apprehending their arrest in a case

 registered under Sections 420 , 406 , 467 , 468 & 471 of the

 Indian Penal Code; Sections 65A , 69 & 63 of the Copyright Act,

 1957; and Sections 120 , 118 & 124 of the Patents Act, 1970. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the petitioners

 have been falsely implicated in the present case and have not

 committed any offence as alleged. The petitioners were the

 employees of a firm, namely, Carbon Resources Pvt. Ltd.,

 Giridih and for their better career, they joined another firm,

 namely, Western Carbon Products, Korba, Chhatisgarh. Since

 the petitioners were merely the employees of Carbon

 Resources Pvt. Ltd., Giridih, any secret data and information

 were not accessible to them and, therefore, there is no

 question of any leakage of any data or secret information of

 the earlier Company. It is further submitted that Western

 Carbon Products, Korba is a business competitor of the

 informant- Company. Therefore, only in order to harass and
 malign the image of the petitioners, the present first

information report has been lodged against them and another

person, namely, Ankush Agrawal. The petitioner no.1 was only

a Mechanical Engineer and was working in plant operation of

the said Company and had no concern with the data control

room or computer control room. Hence, he was not having any

access to the computer and data stored in the same. So far as

the petitioner no.2 is concerned, he was working in the said

Company as Electrician and even if it is assumed that he had

access to the computer data or computer control room, he was

not having technical expertise in computer operation so as to

leak or steal data from the same. The informant-Company had

not executed any employment bond/agreement with the

petitioners, who resigned from the said company after

rendering several years of service in search of better future.

Another Company, namely, Sanvira Industries Limited,

Vishakhapatnam is also producing Electrically Calcined

Anthracite (ECA), but no such case of patent violation has been

lodged against it by the informant-Company. Moreover,

various other staff have also joined there, but the informant

did not make any complaint against the said Company as it is

a big player and the informant is trying to harass a small

company i.e. Western Carbon Products, Korba, Chhatisgarh,

where the petitioners are presently employed. -2- A.B.A. No.7074 of 2024 3. It is further submitted that in the facts and circumstances of

 the case, no offence under the provisions of the Copyright Act,

 1957 and the Patents Act, 1970 is attracted against the

 petitioners. Moreover, no offence under Sections 420 , 406 , 467 , 468 & 471 of the Indian Penal Code is also made out

 against them, as they have neither cheated the informant-

 Company nor it had given any asset to the petitioners which

 can be said to be misappropriated. The petitioners, however,

 undertake to co-operate in ongoing investigation of the case.

 Hence, they may be given the privilege of anticipatory bail. 4. Learned A.P.P. opposes the petitioners' prayer for anticipatory

 bail. 5. Having heard learned counsel for the parties, this Court is

 inclined to enlarge the petitioners, above named, on

 anticipatory bail. Accordingly, the petitioners, in event of their

 arrest or surrender before the court below within three weeks

 from today, shall be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of

 Rs.20,000/- (Rupees Twenty Thousand), each, with two

 sureties of the like amount, each, to the satisfaction of learned

 Chief Judicial Magistrate, Giridih, in connection with Giridih

 (Town) P.S. Case no.23 of 2023, subject to the condition as

 laid down under Section 482(2) of the B.N.S.S., 2023. (Rajesh Shankar, J.)
Sanjay/ -3- A.B.A. No.7074 of 2024