VIII/75/DZU/2022, registered at Police Station NCB, Delhi for
 offences under Sections 8 / 22 / 23 of the Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (' NDPS Act '). 2. It is alleged that on a secret information, one parcel lying
 at DHL Express Pvt. Ltd. Limited, Rama Road, near Kirti Nagar,
 New Delhi was suspected to be containing Narcotics /
 Psychotropic substance. Upon seizure and upon being examined,
 the said parcel was found to be containing 202 strips of
 Alprazolam Tablets (around 2020 tablets), which is a
 psychotropic substance. 3. It is alleged that the consignment was booked by the
 applicant and the consignee's address was given of United
 Kingdom. 4. The learned counsel for the applicant submits that the BAIL APPLN. 4633/2024 Page 1 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/07/2025 at 23:02:25
 applicant was falsely implicated in the present case. He submits
 that the applicant had never booked any such parcel. He submits
 that the NCB has also not been able to find any evidence to link
 the applicant with the seized consignment except that the same
 was booked in the applicant's name. 5. The learned Sr. Standing Counsel for the NCB states that
 the consignment was booked by the applicant which is also clear
 from the fact that the copy of the Aadhaar Card of the applicant
 was also submitted with DHL for booking of the parcel. He
 submits that the CDR location of the applicant on the date of
 booking the parcel, that is, on 08.10.2022 also shows that he was
 present near the said area. 6. He further submits that the applicant has also, in his
 statement under Section 67 of the NDPS Act, admitted to have
 booked the parcel. He submits that the case involves recovery of
 commercial quantity of contraband and the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act would be attracted against the applicant. 7. It is relevant to note that no CCTV footage from the office
 of DHL was ever seized by the NCB and as observed by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in Tofan Singh v. The State of Tamil Nadu : AIR 2020 SC 5592, the disclosure statement in the absence of
 any additional corroboration is not admissible in the evidence. 8. The conviction, in the opinion of this Court, solely cannot
 be based on the CDR location showing the applicant to be near
 the place where the parcel was booked. 9. It is the case of the applicant that the copy of the Aadhaar
 Card was misused and the contraband was planted to have been
 shown to be booked by the applicant. 10. The same would be tested during the course of the trial
 which shall not be commented upon at this stage. However, it BAIL APPLN. 4633/2024 Page 2 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/07/2025 at 23:02:25
 cannot be ignored that the applicant has already suffered
 incarceration for more than 30 months and the trial is not likely
 to conclude in the near future. 11. The applicant was arrested on 30.11.2022 and has been in
 custody since then. Despite such a long period of incarceration, it
 is pointed out that only 02 out of 15 witnesses have been
 examined. It is trite that grant of bail on account of delay in trial
 and long period of incarceration cannot be said to be fettered by
 the embargo under Section 37 of the NDPS Act. The Hon'ble
 Apex Court, in the case of Mohd. Muslim v. State (NCT of
 Delhi ) : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 352 has observed as under: 24. There is a further danger of the prisoner turning to
 crime, "as crime not only turns admirable, but the more
 professional the crime, more honour is paid to the
 criminal"22 (also see Donald Clemmer's 'The Prison
 Community' published in 194023). Incarceration has further
 deleterious effects - where the accused belongs to the
 weakest economic strata : immediate loss of livelihood, and
 in several cases, scattering of families as well as loss of
 family bonds and alienation from society. The courts
 therefore, have to be sensitive to these aspects (because in
 the event of an acquittal, the loss to the accused is
 irreparable), and ensure that trials - especially in cases,
 where special laws enact stringent provisions, are taken up
 and concluded speedily." (emphasis supplied) 12. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Man Mandal &
 Anr. v. The State of West Bengal : SLP(CRL.) No. 8656/2023
 had granted bail to the petitioner therein, in an FIR for offences
 under the NDPS Act , on the ground that the accused had been
 incarcerated for a period of almost two years and the trial was
 likely going to take considerable amount of time. 13. The object of jail is to secure the appearance of the
 accused during the trial. The object is neither punitive nor
 preventive and the deprivation of liberty has been considered as a
 punishment. delay in the completion of the trial. 14. The applicant is stated to be of clean antecedents and in the
 opinion of this Court, is not likely to commit a similar offence
 while on bail. In this regard, this Court is of the view that no
 purpose would be served by keeping the applicant in further
 incarceration. 15. Therefore, without commenting further on merits of the
 case, this Court considers it apposite to grant bail to the
 applicant. 16. The applicant is, directed to be released on bail on
 furnishing a personal bond for a sum of ₹20,000/- with two BAIL APPLN. 4633/2024 Page 4 of 5 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/07/2025 at 23:02:25
 sureties of the like amount, subject to the satisfaction of the
 learned Trial Court, on the following conditions: 17. In the event of there being any FIR/DD entry/complaint
 lodged against the applicant, it would be open to the respondent
 to seek redressal by filing an application seeking cancellation of
 bail. 18. It is clarified that any observations made in the present
 order are for the purpose of deciding the present bail application
 and should not influence the outcome of the trial and also not be
 taken as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 19. The bail application is allowed in the aforementioned
 terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 10, 2025/"SK" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 11/07/2025 at 23:02:25