[ 1. Grievance in this application is against failure to prevent illegal

 mining, discharge of sewage and dumping of solid waste into river Doodh

 Ganga and Mamath Kull in violation of provisions of the Water

 (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 , judgments of the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court dated 22.02.2017 inter alia in Paryavaran Suraksha

 Samiti Vs. Union of India1 and orders of this Tribunal on the subject. 2. Case set out in the application is that Doodh Ganga is a tributary

 of the Jhelum River. It originates from Pir Panjaal Mountain and

 thereafter passing through number of villages and towns up-stream to

 down-stream like Sogam, Chadoora, Wathora, Kralpora, Bagh-e-Mehtab,

1 (2017) 5 SCC 326 1 Channapora, Natipora, Barzulla, Bulbul Bagh, it merges into Hoker Sar

Lake, at Lawaypora, Narbal and eventually meets the Jhelum River.

Mamath Kull also originates from Pir Panjal Mountains and after passing

through number of villages in Budgam District, enters the Mamath

Village which is 1 km away from the stream and thereafter first enters

the Hokersar Lake and eventually meets the Jhelum River. Rivers Doodh

Ganga and Mamath Kull have been subjected to pollution from pesticides

from Apple Orchards, discharge of untreated sewage and dumping of

municipal solid wastes from the area falling under Srinagar Municipal

Corporation and Municipal Committee of Budgam. 3. Precise submissions been set out in the application are as follows:- 4. The areas where untreated sewage is being discharged are

mentioned to be as follows: 5. In support of above, the applicant has filed photographs and a

report of the applicant published in Greater Kashmir titled "SMC 3 converting Doodh Ganga into a drain". The applicant has also filed copies

of letters of the State PCB addressed to the Srinagar Municipal

Corporation against dewatering stations having potential to pollute

water. The applicant has also annexed representation dated 11.08.2021

addressed to the Chief Secretary, J&K, Member Secretary, J&K Pollution

Control Committee, Member Secretary, CPC B, Commissioner, Srinagar

Municipal Corporation, Director, Urban Local Bodies, Kashmir, Deputy

Commissioners Srinagar and Budgam. The applicant has also relied

upon letter dated 10.09.2021 from Regional Director, J&K PCC to the

Member Secretary, J&K PCC stating that on analysis of water samples,

discharge of pollution in the rivers was established. The letter is

reproduced below: 6. The matter was earlier considered on 18.10.2021 in light of above

averments and materials. The Tribunal found prima facie violation of

environmental norms showing failure of statutory regulators in taking

remedial action. Accordingly, the Tribunal directed remedial action in

accordance with the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated

22.02.2017 in Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti Vs. Union of India , (2017) 5

SCC 326 and orders of this Tribunal on the subject. The operative part of

the order is reproduced below:- within one month of the said report." 7. In pursuance of above, the joint Committee has filed its report

dated 14.01.2022 acknowledging the violations but without any

meaningful remedial action. 5 8. The violations found include dumping of waste on the banks of

the river, discharge of untreated sewage into the river, unregulated

illegal mining activities and failure to protect the embankments of

the river. The report signed by the Additional Secretary to the

Government, Housing and Urban Development Department. 9. Once such serious violations have been found by the State

authorities, failure to take stringent action shows apathy to the

obligation of the State under the Constitution, particularly the Public

Trust Doctrine of ensuring clean environment by protecting rivers and

other natural assets. The attitude of indefinitely waiting for funds from

outside agencies is not merely ignorance of law but failure of

responsibility. Environment being part of Right to life under the

Constitution, such pleas are legally untenable and impermissible. It is for

the State to arrange resources for its inalienable and basic responsibility.

On that pretext, damage to the environment cannot be allowed to take

place or to continue. Timeline laid down under the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran Suraksha (Supra) for ensuring

setting up of all treatment equipments is 31.03.2018 and after the said

date, for any failure the Secretary to the Government is liable to be

prosecuted in terms of judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. This

Tribunal has also issued directions for taking disciplinary action and

payment of compensation for continued failure to manage waste to the

detriment of environment and public health. 10. The relevant extracts from the report are reproduced below for

ready reference:- B. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT 7 Door to Door collection of Solid Waste has been started in all 74
wards of SMC and 529 wards of (40) ULBs, which includes (13)
wards of Municipal Council Budgam and (13) wards of MC
Chadoora. Photographs of activity at MC Budgam and MC Chadoora
are enclosed as Annexure "A". The MC Budgam and MC Chadoora have taken measures to ensure
strict prohibition for illegal dumping of waste on the banks of River
Doodh Ganga and Mammath Kull. Special teams have been
constituted to keep strict vigil and ensure that no waste is dumped
within 500 meters of the banks of water bodies. Copy enclosed as
Annexure

All municipalities are collecting 100% waste from the households
through Door to Door collection. At present, segregation is being done
in (32) wards and processing in respect of (9) wards. Once the SWM
facilities approved in respect of every MC are established, the
segregation of waste as per the provisions of SWM Rules, 2016
would be observed in letter and spirit. The Municipalities have been asked to identify the bulk generators,
existing in their respective towns. The number of rag pickers has
been raised from 64 to 137 in last fifteen days. The municipalities ensuring prohibition of illegal dumping of
construction material on roadsides etc. However, usually the
demolition waste generated from the constructions is being utilized
by the inhabitants for earth filling etc.

After the establishment of Solid Waste Management facilities in all
towns, the process of composting/ RDF would definitely yield
income for the concerned MC's. Strict vigil is being kept to prevent Illegal
constructions/encroachments in all (40) ULBs. The Municipalities
are submitting weekly reports on every Saturday countersigned
by concerned elected ward member, certifying therein that no
encroachment/ illegal construction has taken place in their areas
of jurisdiction. Demolition drives are being conducted by the ULBs
in case of violations. Special Sunday drives are being conducted by the Municipal
Councils/ Committees, in which huge quantity of waste has
been removed from the water bodies. Besides, ULBs have been
directed to formulate of DPRs for preservation/ conservation of
water bodies of their respective areas. Water body cleanliness
drive photographs enclosed Annexure-C.

The waste dumped on the banks of Mammath Kull and Doodh
Ganga Nallah has been removed by concerned MC's. The MC
Budgam has removed around 50 MTs of waste and MC Chadoora
has removed 60MTs of waste, which includes bio-degradable as
well non bio-degradable waste. Photographs are attached.

So far, Legacy waste has been identified in five towns viz. MC
Bijbehara, MC Kulgam, MC Shopian, MC Baramulla and MC
Pampore for which the contour mapping has been recently
completed and process has been started for tendering of the job.
The tender document is being prepared by the recently 8 established PMU as per the approved action plan. The ULB-wise
 details of the contour mapped/ quantified legacy waste in given in
 the enclosed Annexure "D". Sites have already been identified for establishment of Solid
 waste Management facilities in all towns. The details of sites
 identified in respect of ULBs of District Budgam is given as under:- In order to redress the issue of handling/ managing and disposal
 of waste generated in the towns of Kashmir Division, the State
 Level Apex Committee in its meeting held on 16/03/202 lunder
 the chairmanship of Chief Secretary of J&K UT approved
 decentralised Solid Waste Management Action plan for all 76
 Urban Local Bodies of J&K UT. Under the said Action plan, the
 following decentralised technologies have been approved for
 implementation:- The overall cost of the project for (40) ULBs of Kashmir
 Division for establishment of decentralized facilities is Rs.
 191.67 Crores. The municipality-wise details of beak-up of type
 and capacity of facilities are given in the statement enclosed as
 Annexure "E". The DPR's have been prepared in respect of (20) ULBs and
 authorization for tendering has been conveyed to (17) ULBs so far.
 The ULB-wise details status of District Budgam is given as under:- The DPR of the MC Magam is under preparation and tendering has
 been initiated at, MC Chadoora. The above land parcels are in
 possession of concerned Municipal Committes/Councils. The
 Facilities shall be created within a period of 12 months 9 The Budgam and Chadoora towns being the important towns of
Central Kashmir and to ensure the restoration and preservation
the prestigious water bodies of Doodh Ganga and Mamath Kull,
comprehensive Solid Waste Management facilities have been
approved for Budgam town at the cost of Rs. 299.47 Lakhs at
PallarBudgam with two Waste Management Centers of 5 TPD
capacity and for the Chadoora town at Hayatpora at the cost of
Rs 124.38 Lakhs consisting of 01 Waste Management Centers
of 4 TPD capacity

The Waste generation details of two towns viz. Municipal Council
Budgam & Municipal Committee Chadoora are as under:- For proper and effective implementation of Solid Waste
Management Action plan, a dedicated Project Management Unit has
already been engaged by the Department and the PMU has started
its work and recently two site visits of MC Baramulla/ Sopore have
been conducted by the PMU and two meetings have also been taken
in the Directorate in respect of the integrated SWM facilities of
Anantnag and Baramulla/Sopore towns. he project envisages multiple activities/ measures for waste
management/ disposal viz. Establishment Door to Door
collection of Solid Waste for its proper disposal, prohibition of
dumping of solid and other waste near the banks of rivers,
collection and segregation of waste as per SWM Rules,
Compliance of SWM Rules by bulk generators, Recycling of
waste, management and disposal of C&D waste, Removal &
disposal of legacy waste dumped near river banks,
Environmental awareness campaigns and sensitization of the
inhabitants to prevent dumping of waste into or near the water
bodies. C. AWARENESS ACTIVITIES

Environmental awareness is being created among the communities
and people are being educated about the hazards and ill effects
associated with the pollution of water bodies. An amount of Rs.
568.12 Lakhs has been released to ULBs for IEC activities and an
amount of Rs. 9.50 Lakhs has been provided for installation of
Sign boards on the banks of water bodies. Awareness generated 10 through announcements, public interactions and media. Some
 photographs of Sign Boards are enclosed as Annexure "F".

 Sustainable awareness campaigns are being organized by all
 Municipal Councils/ Committees to create awareness among the
 public particularly in the vicinity of water bodies. The teams have
 been constituted by the Municipal Councils/ Committees to keep
 strict vigil to prevent dumping of waste into water bodies/ drains
 etc. Photographs of some water bodies are enclosed as Annexure
 "G". D. REGULATION OF MINING ACTIVITIES

 Two mineral blocks 11/bud and 12/bud in Doodh Ganga Nallah
 have been e-auctioned by the District Level Auctioned Committee,
 Budgam. Presently. the extraction from both the blocks is being
 carried out in a controlled and scientific manner in accordance with
 the approved mining plans, environmental clearances and consent
 to operate issued by PCC. The extraction is limited upto 1 mtr. depth
 as per the approved mining plan. Checkpoints have been
 established at the exit of both the mineral blocks where officials
 have been deployed to monitor the extraction and transportation of
 minerals. No illegal extraction is being allowed anywhere in the adjacent
 areas of nallah. Whenever complaints is received about illegal
 extraction, prompt action is taken against the same. So far, 27
 vehicles/machines found involved in illegal extraction and
 transportation of minor minerals in the areas were seized and
 penalty of Rs.3,41,060/- has been realized from offenders.
 Besides, registration of FIR's against the persons involved in
 illegal extraction. Extraction of minor minerals from Mamath Kull has been completely
 stopped after the only exit point near Mamath Bridge was
 disrupted. Plantation drives have been conducted by the ULBs and target of
 25000 plantation has been fixed by the Department for reducing the
 pollution and enhancing beautification. Some photographs of the plantation drives conducted at Uri,
 Ganderbal & Dooru-Verinag are enclosed as Annexure "H"." 11. The report shows that the water quality of Doodh ganga has

deteriorated in downstream locations. The relevant extract from the

report is reproduced below: The water quality analysis data is given in Table-3. The analysis of samples collected from Doodh Ganga at
 different locations indicate that water in upstream locations i.e. at
 Sogam and Chadoora meet the prescribed permissible limit for
 'Class B' (Out door Bathing Organised) criteria in terms of
 analysed physico-chemical parameters, whereas in the lower
 course of river i.e, at Bagh-e-Mehtaab, at Old Barzulla and
 Near Tengpora, the water quality does not confirm 'Class B'
 Criteria for parameters viz Dissolved Oxygen and
 Biochemical Oxygen demand. Comparatively inferior quality
 in the lower course of river can be attributed to addition of
 sewage/domestic waste into the water body. The observed Total Coliform levels do not meet the
 prescribed permissible limit for 'Class B' (Out door Bathing
 Organised) at Baghi-e- Mehtaab and Tengpora."

 However, Committee does not appear to have collected and

analysed the samples for Pesticides. 12. The report of the Additional Secretary has not given the status of

Mamath Kull river. Though water quality is said to be meeting primary

water quality criteria, the issue of dumping of solid waste on the banks of

Mamath Kull remains unaddressed. The relevant extract from the report

is reproduced below: 13. In view of above acknowledged failure of the State, we direct the

Chief Secretary, J&K to take immediate remedial action to remedy the

situation by ensuring clean environment and also taking coercive

measures against the erring irresponsible officers, acting in contempt of

directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and this Tribunal and causing

detriment to the environment and public health. We need not comment

upon the measures suggested in the report as the Tribunal is concerned

with enforcement of obligation of the State to provide clean environment.

It is for the State Authorities to decide as to which measures are 13 appropriate so as to prevent pollution of the river and prevent other

violations of environmental norms and what is the source of funding. 14. We find that neither the dumping of solid waste nor discharge of

untreated sewage has been prevented nor illegal mining stopped and nor

legacy waste cleared for which statutory timelines have already expired.

The State is accordingly held liable to pay interim compensation of

Rs. One crore each under all the three heads which may be

deposited in a separate account to be utilized for restoration of

environment. The amount may be deposited with the District

Magistrate, Budgam and spent as per plan approved by the Chief

Secretary, consistent with the District Action Plan of the concerned area.

It will be open to the State to recover the amount from the

polluters/erring officers in accordance with law. For illegal mining, the

loss caused to the State in the form of value of minerals as well as the

loss caused to the environment for undertaking such activity without

requisite clearances needs to be recovered by the State PCB in light of

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court inter-alia in Goa Foundation v

Union of India & Ors. ( 2014) 6 SCC 590 and Common Cause Vs. UOI &

Ors. , (2017) 9 SCC 499. It is also open to the State PCB to initiate

prosecution against the violators. 15. An action taken report may be filed before the Tribunal by the

Chief Secretary personally, after interaction with the concerned officers

within three months by e-mail at [email protected] preferably in the

form of searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF and not in the form of Image

PDF. The report may specify status of facilities to treat sewage as well as

fecal sludges, protection of flood plain, lifting of waste from the banks of

Doodh ganga and Mamath Kull to the identified sites and processing it as 14 per MSW rules, cow dung management and other associated issues. In

view of large scale continuing violations, we consider it appropriate to

direct that the Principal Secretary, Urban Development, J&K to remain

present in person on the next date by Video Conferencing for interaction. List for further consideration on 15.07.2022.

 A copy of this order be forwarded to the Chief Secretary, J&K and

Principal Secretary, Urban Development, J&K by e-mail for compliance. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP

 Sudhir Agarwal, JM

 Prof. A. Senthil Vel, EM

March 08, 2022
Original Application No. 241/2021
SN 15