Caller identification platform Truecaller has recently appointed Seema Jindal as their Head of Public Affairs, Telecom. This comes after the company’s previous Head of Public Affairs, Pragya Misra joined OpenAI as their first employee in India and the Public Policy and Partnerships Head for the country.

Jindal joins Truecaller after working with Bharti Airtel for over 24 years, in multiple regulatory rules. Most recently, she headed the regulatory affairs for Direct to Home (DTH), Teleports, and very small aperture terminal satellites (VSAT), and headed compliances and audits. Jindal joins the company as Airtel launched its AI-based spam detection service, which could prove to be a competition to Truecaller. Similarly, BSNL has also annouced its plans to launch its own AI/ML-based spam solution. Other telecom companies might soon follow suit given that the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) had directed them to implement AI/ML-based spam detection solutions last year in June .

Truecaller may also face challenges in the form of TRAI’s recommendations to implement Calling Name Presentation (CNAP) Supplementary Service (caller IDs) on telecom companies’ networks.

Speaking to MediaNama, Truecaller co-founder Nami Zarringhalam said that Truecaller’s user base and established preferences give the platform a significant edge over network-based solutions. “I think the regulatory requirement is interesting because, you know, what are you trying to protect the consumers from? Is it really the spam part or is it mainly the fraud part?” Zarringhalam questioned when asked about TRAI’s mandate for network-level spam solutions. He mentioned that telcos in other countries have launched network-level spam solutions, but that those solutions are yet to have a net positive effect on people’s ability to avoid spam and answer phone calls that they needed to take (like from a bank providing them credit cards).

When asked about TRAI’s recommendations for caller IDs, Zarringhalam mentioned that according to him, business identification would not resolve fraud. He stresses that fraudsters operate differently from legitimate businesses, adding, “Just because you can identify businesses, you will [not] have lower amounts of fraud happening because fraudsters are not working as a bank does in terms of like that there’s rules and regulations for how they should behave.”

Note, October 10, 2024, 10:35 AM: The story was edited to update Jindal’s work experience at Airtel.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event