1. Grievance in this application is against failure to prevent discharge

 of sewage and dumping of solid waste into river Doodh Ganga and Mamath

 Kull in violation of provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of

 Pollution) Act, 1974 , judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated

 22.02.2017 inter alia in Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti Vs. Union of India1 and orders of this Tribunal on the subject. 2. Case set out in the application is that Doodh Ganga is a tributary of

 the Jhelum River. It originates from Pir Panjaal Mountain and thereafter

 passing through number of villages and towns up-stream to down-stream

 like Sogam, Chadoora, Wathora, Kralpora, Bagh-e-Mehtab, Channapora,

 Natipora, Barzulla, Bulbul Bagh, it merges into Hoker Sar Lake, at

 Lawaypora, Narbal and eventually meets the Jhelum River. Mamath Kull

1 (2017) 5 SCC 326 1 also originates from Pir Panjal Mountains and after passing through

number of villages in Budgam District, enters the Mamath Village which

is 1 km away from the stream and thereafter first enters the Hokersar Lake

and eventually meets the Jhelum River. Rivers Doodh Ganga and Mamath

Kull have been subjected to pollution from pesticides from Apple Orchards,

discharge of untreated sewage and dumping of municipal solid wastes

from the area falling under Srinagar Municipal Corporation and Municipal

Committee of Budgam. 3. Precise submissions been set out in the application are as follows:- 4. The areas where untreated sewage is being discharged are

mentioned to be as follows: 2 5. In support of above, the applicant has filed photographs and a report

of the applicant published in Greater Kashmir titled "SMC converting

Doodh Ganga into a drain". The applicant has also filed copies of letters of

the State PCB addressed to the Srinagar Municipal Corporation against

dewatering stations having potential to pollute water. The applicant has 3 also annexed representation dated 11.08.2021 addressed to the Chief

Secretary, J&K, Member Secretary, J&K Pollution Control Committee,

Member Secretary, CPC B, Commissioner, Srinagar Municipal Corporation,

Director, Urban Local Bodies, Kashmir, Deputy Commissioners Srinagar

and Budgam. The applicant has also relied upon letter dated 10.09.2021

from Regional Director, J&K PCC to the Member Secretary, J&K PCC

stating that on analysis of water samples, discharge of pollution in the

rivers was established. The letter is reproduced below: 6. In view of above material, prima facie it appears that there is

continued violation of Water Act to the prejudice of the environment and

public health which remains unchecked. Thus, intervention of the

Tribunal may be called for. Accordingly, we direct the authorities to verify 4 the facts and take remedial action in accordance with law. We also

constitute a five-member Joint Committee of CPC B, J&K PCC, Deputy

Commissioners, Srinagar and Budgam and the Director, Urban Local

Bodies, J&K. The State PCB will be the nodal agency for compliance and

coordination. The Joint Committee may meet within two weeks and

undertake visits to the sites in question. The Committee may look into the

water quality in terms of Fecal coliform, quantity of sewage being

discharged, solid waste being dumped on the banks and the action plan

prepared by the River Rejuvenation Committee (RRC) for J & K constituted

as per orders of the Tribunal in OA 673/18. Further action be planned and

executed accordingly. It may give a factual report to this Tribunal within

two months by e-mail at [email protected] preferably in the form of

searchable PDF/ OCR Support PDF and not in the form of Image PDF. A

copy of the report may also be given to the Secretary, Urban Local Bodies

who may file an action taken report in terms of status of compliance of

orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Paryavaran Suraksha (Supra) and

orders of this Tribunal dated 21.05.2020 and 21.09.2020 in O.A.

593/2017, Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti v. Union of India & Ors. , dated

14.12.2020 in O.A. No. 606/2018, Compliance of Municipal Solid Waste

Management Rules, 2016 and other environmental issues and dated

06.12.2019 in OA 673/2018, In re: News item published in "The Hindu"