1. This   petition   under Section   482 of   Code   of 

Criminal Procedure ('the Cr.P.C .' for short) is filed 

for quashing of Criminal Case No.16 of 2008 pending 

in   the   Court   of   Chief   Judicial   Magistrate, Page 1 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

Jamnagar. The criminal case is filed for an offence 

under Sections 406 , 408 , 420 , 468 , 471 , 114 , 120(B) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 29 of Securities 

and   Exchanged   Board   of   India   Act   1992(SEBI).   The 

petition is filed by five applicants, which include a 

Company incorporated under the Company's Act , and the 

Directors of such company and for Directors of such 

company. 2. The brief facts are as under: The  complainant  therefore,   represented   in   detail   to Page 4 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

the   office   and   called   upon   the   company   to   do   the 

needful by re­transferring the shares in her account 

so that no loss is caused to her. It is alleged that 

instant   answering   to   the   communication   of   the 

complainant   the   company   gave   a   vague   reply.   It   is 

alleged   that   infact   the   company   called   upon   the 

complainant   to   make   payment   of   Rs.4,40,000/­   and 

amount against the claim of the complainant that she 

is entitled to receive an amount of Rs.1,34,550. It 

is with this allegation, the private complaint came 

to be filed on 22.02.2008 and on the same day Chief 

Judicial Magistrate, Jamnagar issued directions under 

Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. 3. The present application for quashing is moved on 

several grounds raised in the petition and interalia 

it   was   argued   on   behalf   of   the   applicant   that   the 

criminal   case   deserves   to   be   quashed   on   the   ground 

that the dispute raised in the F.I.R. is essentially 

a  civil  dispute.   It  is   filed   as  an  afterthought   to 

overcome   the   complainant's   own   liability   and   that 

though the applicant has conducted the transaction in 

due course of business as per the agreement entered Page 5 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

into between the parties, still the criminal case is 

filed  with   an  oblique   motive,  which  is   an  abuse   of 

process of law. 4. Heard Ms. Dharmishta Raval, learned advocate for 

the   petitioner,   learned   APP   for   the   State.   Non 

represents the respondent no.2. The Court has already 

recorded   on  previous   occasion,   learned   advocate  for 

the   respondent   no.2   was   given   last   opportunity   to 

represent its case. The previous orders also recorded 

the   persistence   absence   of   learned   advocate,   hence 

now the matter is taken up in his absence. 5. Learned advocate for the applicant submits, the 

applicant is a 5th largest Stock Broking company with 

branches   spread   all   over   India   and   is   having   more 

than one lakh demat accounts and sixty five thousand 

trading clients. It is submitted that the applicant 

company   is   functioning   under   the   strict   rules   and 

regulations framed under the provisions of SEBI Act and is strictly monitored by Securities and Exchange 

Board of India constituted under SEBI Act . 6. It   is   submitted   that   the   respondent   no.2   had 

entered   into   client   broker   agreement   with   the Page 6 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

applicant no.1 company. The respondent had signed his 

Know   Your   Client   form   as   well   as   risk   disclosure 

document   and   was   allotted   a   client   code.   The 

documents entered into mutually by both the parties 

contains the clauses strictly as per the requirement 

of   SEBI   and   it   contains   very   important   clauses 

starting from provisions relating to acquainting the 

client   with   the   system   of   operation   and   several 

cautions and risk involved in the transactions. It is 

after   the   respondent   no.2   having   acquainted  herself 

fully with the functioning of the system and the risk 

involved   as   entered   into   the   agreement   and   have 

mutually signed the documents to support their client 

agreement.   As   per   the   clause   in   the   agreement   the 

applicant company through its personnel used to be in 

touch with the complainant by telephone and by e­mail 

as   agreed   upon   the   instructions   were   received   with 

regards to trade over the mobile phone. Based on such 

instructions,   the   trade   is   carried   out   and   copy   of 

contract   note   is   forwarded   electronically   to   its 

clients like the respondent no.2. From the record of 

the   company,   it   was   found   that   the   respondent   no.2 

has   put  in   trades   in  Futures  &  Options   segments   of Page 7 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

National   Stock   Exchange   on   various   dates   starting 

from   18.12.2007   to   10.01.2008.   The   complainant 

company  was  therefore,   authorized   by   the   respondent 

no.2 herself to act as per her instructions to trade 

in   the   instant   case,   also   in     Futures   &   Options 

segment   the   respondent   no.   2   had   placed   orders   for 

purchase of stocks of ESSAR Oil, RPL, RCOM and ISPAT 

Securities. The trade in RPL and RCOM was squared off 

by the respondent no.2. However, shares of ESSAR Oil 

were put in Future & Options segment. The transaction 

was  accordingly  executed   at  National   Stock   Exchange 

on 09.01.2008 and the contract note is also generated 

in   its   regards.   This   trading   is   done   under   a 

transparent   system,   which   is   visible   to   all   the 

client including the respondent no.2 and the contract 

note   was   automatically   forwarded   to   the   respondent 

no.2. This was done in due course and long before the 

complaint came to be filed. 7. It   is   also   submitted   that   the   SEBI   regulation 

provide   for   resolving   any   dispute   that   arises   with 

the   clients   and   in   the   instant   case   the   respondent 

no.2 has not resorted to any procedure to resolve his 

grievance through the provisions of SEBI Act . It is Page 8 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

submitted that in the instant case inconformity with 

the system of trading wherein, the margin money to be 

collected   towards   the   transactions   of   the   Stock 

Exchange is determined by the system itself and not 

by   the   companies   like   the   applicant.   The   companies 

have to collect the margin money from its client in 

accordance   with   the   rules   and   regulations   of   the 

National   Stock   Exchange.   Accordingly   in  the  instant 

case for the transaction of ESSAR Oil the respondent 

no.2 was required to make payment of margin money for 

which the respondent authorized the applicant company 

to   transfer   shares   lying   in   the   demat   account   into 

the   common   pool   to   comply   with   the   margin 

requirement. The respondent no.2 had issued delivery 

instruction   slip   authorizing   the   complainant   to 

transfer the shares from demat account. Such slip is 

dated   10.01.2008   and   is   produced   on   record.   It   is 

further   submitted   that,   the   amount   required   to   be 

paid towards the traded stocks depends upon the price 

of   the   same   in   the   market   in   the   instant   case   on 

account of sudden fall in the market the transaction 

of the respondent no.2 suffered a loss and therefore, 

she   was   required   to   pay   the   difference   between   the Page 9 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

closing   price   of   the   day   and   contract   price   in 

connection   with   the   ESSAR   Oil   shares.   There   is   an 

expiry date before which the transactions has to be 

ordered,   which   is   governed   by   clause   5   of   the 

agreement   itself.   It   is   in   this   regards   the   notice 

was issued for respondent no.2 to make the payment to 

recover the dues. 8. It   is   submitted   that   the   entire   transaction   is 

maintained   on   the   ledger   by   company   as   per   the 

Contract   Regulations   Act   and   the   ledger   thus 

maintained of the respondent no.2, clearly indicates 

the transaction which she had authorized. 9. It   is   submitted   that   the   applicant   company   to 

honor the transaction had to make the payment to the 

Stock   Exchange   on   behalf   of   the   respondent   no.2 

complainant. Such transactions are also through banks 

and   therefore   completely   transparent   transactions. 

The   respondent   no.2   herself   has   paid   part   of   the 

amount by cheque and had issued instructions to sale 

equity shares of Sujata Metals and to appropriate the 

proceeds towards her dues. This incident took place 

on 11.01.2008. It is submitted it is only after this Page 10 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

that   is   an   afterthought,   the   applicants   thought   it 

fit   to   file   the   complaint   in   February   2008.   It   is 

submitted that in similar situation, this Court has 

passed an order in case of  Religare Securities Ltd.  

and others V/s State of Gujarat and others  in group 

of   applications   being   Cr.M.A.   8129,   7936,   3145   of 

2008 reported in 2014 SCC Online Guj 8607. 10. It   is   lastly   submitted   that   as   per   the 

provisions   contained   in   the   contract   between   the 

parties  which   provides   for   arbitration,  the  parties 

had   invoked   the   arbitration   clause   and   arbitration 

was   conducted   and   ultimately   an   award   came   to   be 

passed on 29.07.2008, wherein, the arbitrator passed 

an award in favour of the applicant company ordering 

that   the   respondent   no.2   was   having   outstanding 

amount   against   her   account   with   the   applicant 

company. This award has become final and binding to 

the   parties,   which   is   not   even   challenged   by   the 

respondent   no.2,   hence   also   the   present   criminal 

proceedings against the applicants is required to be 

quashed. 11. Heard   learned   advocate   for   the   applicants   and Page 11 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

perused the documents on record. 12. Clause   5  of   the   agreement   entered   into   between 

the applicant company and the respondent no.2, reads 

as under: (5) The client shall indemnify and 
 keep   indemnified   the   Member   (MSFL) 
 harmless   from   and   against   all 
 claims,   demands,   actions, 
 proceedings,   loss,   damages, 
 liabilities,   changes   and/   or 
 expenses   that   are   occasioned   or   may 
 be   occasioned   to   the   Member   (MSFL) 
 directly,   or   indirectly,   owing   to 
 bad   delivery   or   shares/   securities 
 and/ or as a result of fake/ forged/ 
 stolen   shares/   securities/   transfer 
 documents   that   are   introduced   or 
 that may be introduced by or through 
 the  client  during  the course  of its 
 dealings/   operations   on   the 
 Exchange. (8) The   client   hereby 
 unconditionally,   absolutely,   and 
 irrevocably   undertakes   to   pay 
 immediately   any   amount   due   and 
 payable under the agreement on being 
 called   upon   to   do   so,   merely   on   a 
 demand   in   writing   or   otherwise   from 
 the   Stock   Broker   stating   that   the 
 amount   has   become   due   and   any   such 
 demand   made   on   the   client   shall   be 
 conclusive as regards the amount due 
 and payable by the client. (9) The   client   further   agrees   to 
 pay   the   charge,   taxes,   levies   etc. 
 imposed   under   the   service   tax, 
 securities transaction tax and other 
 taxes   as   may   be   levied   by   the Page 12 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

 Central/   state   government   as   the 
 case   may   be   through   Appropriate 
 legislations   from   time   to   time,   the 
 quantum   of   such   charges,   taxes, 
 levies,   etc.   shall   be   reflected   in 
 the   contract   notes/bills   raised   by 
 the Member (MSFL) on the client. Clause A & B of the Risk Disclosure 
 Documents is as under: In this case, you will be liable for 
 any   losses   incurred   due   to   such 
 close­outs. Clause   8   of   Voluntary   Document   is 
 as under: All these documents are found to be 
 signed   by   the   respondent   no.2   in 
 presence of two witnesses. 13. The   Court   has   also   perused   the   contract   notes 

which   evidence   the   transaction   of   shares.   This 

contract   notes   give   the   specified   date   and   time   at 

which   the   transactions   have   taken   place   and   at   the 

price at which the transactions have taken place. 14. The Court has also perused the arbitration award 

dated   29.07.2008   in  connection   with  the  arbitration 

proceedings   in   arbitration   matter   no.F&O/M­034/2008 

between the applicant company and respondent no.2.The 

arbitration award is ordered to be taken on record. 

The   arbitrator   has   narrated   in   great   detail   the 

nature of transaction which has taken place and the 

claim of the applicant were examined and ultimately 

concluded   that   is   is   the   respondent   no.2   which   is 

required to pay certain amount. 15. Having   examined   the   relevant   documents   on 

record,   the   Court   comes   to   the   conclusion   that   the 

transfer of shares which took place on National Stock 

Exchange   by   the   applicant   company   on   behalf   of   the 

respondent no.2 is in response to the due course of Page 14 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

its   business   and   inconformity   with   the   agreement 

between   the   parties.   The   Criminal   case   therefore, 

registered subsequently appears to be an afterthought 

with   a   view   to   overcome   the   liability   of   the 

respondent   no.2,   which   has   arisen   out   of   the 

transactions. It is also found that though under the 

agreement clause, the remedy to resolve the dispute 

is made, including filing a complaint with the SEBI, 

the respondent no.2 has not resorted to such remedy 

and has thought it fit to criminal proceedings, which 

in   the   opinion   of   the   Court,   is   clear   abuse   of 

process of law. 16. The   perusal   of   the   criminal   complaint   suggests 

that,   on   which   on   the   very   same   day,   learned 

Magistrate has passed order under Section 156(3) of 

Cr.P.C. directing registration of the F.I.R. Contents 

of the complaint do not reveal any specific role of 

any   of   the   applicants   no.2   to   5   so   as   to   attract 

provisions of Sections 406 , 408 and 420 of the I.P.C. 

There  is   no  allegations  to   suggest   that   any  of   the 

applicants had misrepresented before the complainant 

so   as   to   influence   her   decision   to   enter   into   the 

transaction. In fact, there is no allegation that the Page 15 of 16 R/CR.MA/2861/2008 JUDGMENT

complainant had ever met the applicants in connection 

with any of the share transactions. The principles of 

vicarious liability cannot be invoked in the facts of 

the present case. 17. The judgment of this Court in case of  Religare  

Securities   Ltd.(Supra),  which   contains   facts 

identical to the present case wherein, this Court has 

considered   the   clause   of   the   agreement   between   the 

parties, the award of the Arbitrator and considering 

the   fact   that  the   transactions   of  such   nature   is  a 

dispute   of   Civil   nature.   Therefore,   this   Court   has 

proceeded   to   quash   the   F.I.R.   The   facts   being 

identical   the   Court   also   relies   upon   the   reasoning 

given   in   the   case   of  Religare   Securities   Ltd.  

(Supra). 18. In view of the above, the present application is 

allowed. Criminal Case No.16 of 2008 is ordered to be 

quashed  and  set  aside,   consequently  all  proceedings 

initiated pursuant to Criminal Case No.16 of 2008 are 

also   ordered   to   be   quashed   and   set   aside.   Rule   is 

made absolute. (A.Y. KOGJE, J)
URIL Page 16 of 16