1. The appellant has filed this Appeal under Section 14A of the
 Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for
 enlarging him on Regular Bail in connection with FIR being C.R. No.
 11200048241761 of 2024 registered with Vapi Town Police Station,
 Valsad, for the offences punishable under Sections 323 , 376(1) , 376(2)(n) of
 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 3(1)(w), 3(2)(v) and 3(2)(va) of
 Prevention of Atrocities Act. 2. Learned advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant submits that
 appellant is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the offence.
 Investigation is over and chargesheet has been filed. Applicant is in jail since
 21.06.2024. Trial is yet to be commenced. The applicant is police constable
 and based on false false allegations, FIR came to be filed. No any
 objectionable material is taken by the applicant. The applicant and victim
 were in consensual relationship. Even perusing the investigation papers, it
 appears that the victim herself had deleted the off scene materials or nude
 pictures from whats app account and time and gain she came with the Page 1 of 5 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Thu Mar 13 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Mar 13 22:23:04 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.A/2475/2024 ORDER DATED: 12/03/2025

 undefined

 applicant at the hotel and made physical relationship. No any false promise
 of marriage was given by the applicant. Considering the same, the appellant
 may be enlarged on regular bail by imposing suitable conditions. 3. Learned APP appearing on behalf of the respondent-State and
 learned counsel for the complainant have opposed the present application
 and submitted that, the appellant in the pretext of marry, developed
 physical relation with the victim and during that period, the accused had
 captured nude pictures and videos of the victim and blackmailed her. In this
 regard, sufficient material is produced on record and one witness namely
 Vandana has supported the case of the prosecution. If the applicant is
 released on bail, possibility cannot be ruled out to hamper the witness and
 tamper the evidence as the applicant was working in police department.
 Considering the same, he prays not to allow appeal. 4. While granting bail, the Court has to consider the involvement of the
 accused in the alleged offence, the jurisdiction to grant bail has to be
 exercised on the basis of the well settled principles having regard to the
 facts and circumstances of each case and the following factors are to be
 taken into consideration while considering an application for bail: (i) the
 nature of accusation and the severity of the punishment and the nature of
 the materials relied upon by the prosecution; (ii) reasonable apprehension
 of tampering with the witnesses and threat to the complainant or the
 witnesses; (iii) reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
 accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his abscondence; (iv)
 character behaviour and standing of the accused and the circumstances
 which are peculiar to the accused; (v) larger interest of the public or the
 State and similar other considerations are required to be considered. 5. I have heard the learned advocates appearing on behalf of the
 respective parties and perused the investigation papers. Following aspects
 have been considered: It is also alleged that, in the pretext of providing job on vacant posts
 of GRD, he has made physical relationship. Subsequently, though
 she was married and having child, forced her to make physical
 relationship. (5) Perusing the statement recorded during investigation under Section
 164 of Code, such objectionable material /off scene videos is
 deleted by the victim herself. (6) Instrument has been seized and sent to FSL for examination, hence,
 question does not arise to further circulate the said materials.
 (7) Prima facie, the applicant and victim were in consensual relationship
 (8) Both are major and victim was very much aware about the status of
 the applicant. (9) Applicant has no past antecedent. 6. This Court has also taken into consideration the law laid down by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Sanjay Chandra vs. Central Bureau of
 Investigation reported in [2012]1 SCC 40 as well as in the case of Gudikanti Narasimhulu And Ors vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court of
 Andhra Pradesh reported in (1978)1 SCC 240. Obviously, the conclusion of
 trial will take time and keeping the accused behind the bars is nothing but
 amounts to pre-trial conviction and therefore, considering the celebrated
 principle of bail jurisprudence is that "bail is a rule and jail is exception" as
 well as the concept of personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India, present application deserves consideration. 7. In the facts and circumstances of the case and considering the nature
 of the allegations made against the appellant in the FIR, without discussing Page 3 of 5 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Thu Mar 13 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Mar 13 22:23:04 IST 2025 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.A/2475/2024 ORDER DATED: 12/03/2025

 undefined

 further on merit, prima facie, this Court is of the opinion that this is a fit case
 to exercise the discretion and enlarge the appellant on regular bail. Hence,
 the present application is allowed. The appellant is ordered to be released
 on regular bail in connection with FIR being C.R. No. 11200048241761 of
 2024 registered with Vapi Town Police Station, Valsad, on executing a
 personal bond of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty-five Thousand only) with one
 local surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial Court and
 subject to the conditions that he shall; (a) not take undue advantage of liberty or misuse liberty; (b) not act in a manner injurious to the interest of the prosecution &
 shall not obstruct or hamper the police investigation and shall
 not to play mischief with the evidence collected or yet to be
 collected by the police; (c) surrender passport, if any, to the Trial Court within a week; (d) not to leave State of Gujarat without prior permission of the Trial
 Court concerned; (e) mark presence before the concerned police station once in a
 month for a period of six months; (f) furnish the Aadhar card, email ID/present address of his
 residence to the Investigating Officer and also to the Court at
 the time of execution of the bond and shall not change the
 residence/contact number without prior permission of Trial
 Court; (g) shall not directly or indirectly contact the witnesses connected to
 the offence. 8. The authorities will release the appellant only if he is not required in
 connection with any other offence for the time being. If breach of any of the
 above conditions is committed, the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to
 issue warrant or take appropriate action in the matter. 9. Bail bond to be executed before the lower Court having jurisdiction
 to try the case. It will be open for the concerned Court to delete, modify
 and/or relax any of the above conditions, in accordance with law. 10. At the trial, the trial Court shall not be influenced by the observations
 of preliminary nature qua the evidence at this stage made by this Court
 while enlarging the appellant on bail. 11. Rule is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is
 permitted. (HASMUKH D. SUTHAR,J)

 SUCHIT Page 5 of 5 Uploaded by SUCHITKUMAR PATEL(HC01083) on Thu Mar 13 2025 Downloaded on : Thu Mar 13 22:23:04 IST 2025