Represented by	: 2.	The relevant facts of the case, in brief, as per records are that M/s Siddhartha Bronze Products Pvt. (Appellant No.1) are engaged in the manufacture of Copper Scrap, Nickel Scrap, Aluminum Scrap, Brass Scrap and Copper Alloy Scrap, registered with the Central Excise authorities. They are availing CENVAT Credit under CENVAT Credit Rules, 2002 & 2004. At the initial stage, the appellants were manufacturing Scrap from ship breaking. As the ship breaking industry was experiencing recess, the appellant had to search a alternative source of raw material for manufacturing Scrap. Then, they started to procure duty paid inputs viz. Copper Ingots /Wire Bars, Nickel Ingots, Aluminum Ingots, Copper Alloy, Ship Breaking material etc from the indigenous manufacturers or imported from oversea suppliers either directly or through purchase of high sea sales and traders. The appellants have been manufacturing Scraps and supplied to the various customers namely, M/s. Jindal Stainless Steel Limited, M/s. Alcobex Metals Limited etc. on payment of Central Excise duty. 3.	On 09.01.2007, the Central Excise officers of Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence (DGCEI) visited the Appellants factory and searched the premises and also seized several records and documents. As a follow-up action, investigation were conducted at various places at check post of the Commercial Tax Department, Rajasthan, Custom House Agents, suppliers of raw materials, the appellants Delhi and Gurgaon office etc. The said officers recorded the statements of various persons including employees and Directors of the Appellant and also the transporters of the input materials, amongst others. 4.	A Show Cause Notice dt.23.12.2008 was issued by the Additional Director General of Directorate General of Central Excise, Intelligence, Ahmedabad Zonal Unit proposing, to deny the CENVAT Credit amounting to Rs.5,57,58,449.00 alongwith interest and to impose penalty on the Appellant No.1, on the ground that the Appellant Company wrongly availed the CENVAT Credit, without actual receipt of the inputs in the factory premises at Bhavnagar. It was further proposed to appropriate the amount deposited by the appellants, during investigation. It was also proposed to impose penalty on Shri K.K. Gupta, Managing Director of Appellant Company (Appellant No.2). By the Adjudication order dt.30.04.2010, the Commissioner of Central Excise confirmed the demand of duty alongwith interest and imposed penalty of equal amount of duty on the Appellant Company. It has also imposed penalty on the Appellant No.2. The Appellants filed appeals before the Tribunal. By Final Order No.A/1672-1673/WZB/AHD/2011, & M/1788/WZB/AHD/ 2011, dt.28.09.2011, the Tribunal set aside the Adjudication Order and remanded the matter to the Adjudicating authority to decide afresh after observing the principles of natural justice. By the impugned Order, in de-novo adjudication, the Commissioner of Central Excise & Service Tax, Bhavnagar confirmed the demand of CENVAT Credit of Rs.5,57,58,449.00 alongwith interest and imposed penalty of equal amount of CENVAT credit on the Appellant Company and also appropriated the amount deposited by the Appellant during investigation. It has also imposed a penalty of Rs.50 lakhs on Shri K.K. Gupta, Manager of the Company (Appellant No.2 herein). 5.	The learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the Appellants submits that the Appellant Company procured the duty paid inputs in three sources as under:- 5.1	He submits that the Appellant received the inputs in their factory premises and used in the manufacture of final product and duly recorded in their statutory records such as CENVAT Account, RG-1 register etc. The Appellants cleared the goods to various reputed Companies viz. M/s Jindal Stainless Steel, M/s Alcobex Metals etc. There is no dispute that the Appellant paid duty on final product upon utilisation of CENVAT Credit to their renowned buyers. The entire investigation was conducted under impression that it is not commercially viable for any manufacturer to manufacture copper scraps out of copper ingots/ wires/ bars. They had produced Cost Accountant certificate to substantiate the viability of costing of final product, which was not disputed by the Adjudicating authority and the entire demand of duty is liable to be set-aside on this ground alone. 5.2	CENVAT Credit was also denied on the ground that the transporters had not availed to route through RTO check post. The various statements were recorded of the transport companies. He drew attention of the Bench to the Report for avoiding RTO check post and this cannot be a ground for denial of CENVAT credit as it is evident from records that they received the goods. It is submitted that the Adjudicating authority on the basis of Panchnama, dated 09.01.2007, observed that there was no manufacturing activity, which is contrary to the earlier Panchnama drawn on 10.02.2006, where, it is clearly mentioned that the Appellant had sufficient machineries for cutting of the ingots. He further submits that the Adjudicating authority had not given opportunity for cross examination of the various persons and also not followed the procedure as provided under Section 9D of Central Excise Act, 1944 to examine the witnesses. The learned Senior Advocate drew the attention of the Bench to the relevant portion of the Adjudication order and also various documents to substantiate the receipt and utilization of inputs at their factory. The learned Senior Advocate explained the reasons in detail for import of Copper Ingots to convert into scrap and Cost Accountant certificate. They have filed Written Submissions with the compilation of case laws and various documents duly certified by the Chartered Accountant. 6.	The learned Authorised Representative for the Revenue reiterates the findings of the Adjudicating authority. He submits that the Tribunal in the remand order, had not directed to allow cross examination. The Appellants had not refuted the allegations in the Show Cause Notice. The evidences in the nature of statements of the transporters, CHAs, Buyers, etc would substantiate that the Appellants had not received the inputs in their factory premises. It is submitted that as per CENVAT Credit Rules, onus lies with the assessee to establish that the duty paid inputs were received in the factory and utilised in the manufacture of the final product. In the present case, it is evident from the records that the Appellant had not received the inputs at their factory premises and therefore, it is not necessary to examine the utilisation of the credit in the manufacture of final product and clearance thereof. He also drew the attention of the Bench to the relevant portion of the Adjudication order and filed Written Submissions with compilation of case laws. 7.	After hearing both the sides and on perusal of the records, we find that the Appellants were engaged in the manufacture of Scrap of different non-ferrous metals and registered with the Central Excise department. They were clearing the finished goods on payment of duty and availing CENVAT Credit facilities on the inputs under CENVAT Credit Rules. The main buyers are M/s Jindal Stainless Steel Limited, M/s Stainless India Limited, M/s Alcobex Metals Limited, M/s Shah Alloy Limited, Ahmedabad and other companies. The learned Senior Advocate submitted that they procured inputs from three sources. The denial of CENVAT Credit of total amount of Rs.5,57,58,449.00 for the period from December 2003 to June 2007, would also be in three parts as under: 8.	The learned Senior Advocate submitted that the Adjudicating authority had not allowed cross examination of several persons as prayed for, despite the order of the Tribunal. It is a second round of litigation. The Tribunal by Final Order No.A/1672-1673/WZB/ AHD/2011, dt.28.09.2011, M/1788/WZB/AHD/11, dt.28.09.2011, remanded the matter for de-novo adjudication after observing principles of natural justice. The relevant portion of the said order is reproduced below:- 8.4	In the present case, the Adjudicating authority observed that the statements of the transporters are not the only evidences to level the allegations of non-receipt of the cenvatable inputs to registered factory premises of the Appellant. It has further been observed that from the documentary evidences placed on record that the Show Cause Notice is issued after bringing on record various corroborative evidences to justify the allegation and considering all the evidences including the versions of the transporters. In view of that, the Adjudicating authority observed that the cross examination of the transporters is not found mandatorily required to be granted as requested by the noticee and the matter may be decided on the basis of evidences as available on record. In our view, there is no need to remand the matter again for cross-examination, and it may be decided on the basis of evidences, as held by the Adjudicating authority. 9.	Learned Authorised Representative for the Revenue submits that during investigation various evidences were unearthed to prove that the appellant had not received the inputs in their factory, such as; (i)	No manufacturing activities was found during visit on 09.1.2007. No documents was produced for lower electricity consumption. (ii)	Transportation of goods from Delhi/ Indore to Gujarat were not entered through R.T.O. check posts, as no seal of any CTO/ RTO was found in the transport documents. It has not followed the shortest route. (iii)	CHAs had deposed that they transported goods only to the border of Delhi at Shahadra and unloaded there. The goods purchased from Metal Appliances, Indore on High Sea Sale basis. But, the Transporter denied transporting the goods to the appellants factory. (iv)	Shri Ashok B. Bafna, broker of AIPL stated that he had supplied only invoices without any goods to the appellants and payment received by cheques, which were returned by cash. This is corroborated with the documents of M/s. AIPL. (v)	Shri Bipin M. Joshi, Joint Accountant of the Appellant Company in his statement dated 09.01.2007 admitted the allegation of the Revenue. (vi)	Two buyers namely M/s. Shah Alloys Limited and M/s. Red Strips Limited in their statements stated that they were not aware that the appellant was manufacturing Scraps, out of Ingots. 10.	We find from the records that on 10.02.2006, the Central Excise officers of DGCEI visited the Appellants factory premises and examined the manufacturing activities. They have seized voluminous records from their factory premises for the year 2001-02 to 2005-06 as evident from the Panchnama dated 10.02.2006. It is seen from the Panchnama dated 10.02.2006 that the following machineries were available for the purpose of manufacturing of scrap:- 10.2	On the basis of the said Panchnama dated 09.1.2007, it has been alleged in the Show Cause Notice that the appellant were not having sufficient machineries installed and infrastructure available in their factory for manufacture of Scraps of various metals. The appellant stated that as recorded from Panchnama dated 10.02.2006, they had sufficient machineries installed in their factory and the Department had not disputed Panchnama dated 10.02.2006. But, the appellant disputed the preparation and authenticity of Panchnama dated 09.01.2007. They also requested for cross-examination of Panchas, which was not allowed. The adjudicating authority observed that both the Panchnamas were drawn on different dates and there is no contradiction in each other and were prepared in the presence of independent witnesses. 10.3	We find that the matter may be decided without going into the controversies of preparation of Panchnama dated 09.7.2007. The demand of duty is for the period during 2003 to 2007. It is evident from Panchnama dated 10.02.2006 that the various machineries were installed in the factory premises for manufacturing Scrap. So, there is no scope to doubt that machineries were installed in the appellants factory for manufacturing Scrap up to 10.02.2006. Further, there is no material available on record and no enquiry was conducted by the Department that the appellants removed the machineries after 10.02.2006. So, there is no force in the submission of the learned Authorised Representative that there was no machinery installed in the factory for manufacturing Scraps. 11.	The appellants refuted the evidences placed by the Revenue before the Adjudicating authority, as the electricity consumption was less because the Bronze (cutting machine) was adjusted in such a manner that while it was running there was no pressure or load on the machine and by that process electricity consumption was highly reduced. The deposition made by Shri Ashok B. Bafna, agent of AIPL, Ludhiana wherein, he had stated that he used to give invoices to the appellant without physically supplying the goods. The statement of Shri Ashok B. Bafna would also be of no assistance for substantiating the case of the Revenue because the appellant had no direct connection with Shri Ahok B. Bafna. In fact, as regards the goods purchased from AIPL, Ludhiana, the said transactions were through broker named Jayant Bhai based in Mumbai, who used to send the goods alongwith invoices of AIPL. The appellant had never been in touch with the personnel of AIPL. We find that the appellant purchased the Copper Ingots from M/s. AIPL, Ludhiana in February 2004, March 2004 and in July 2004 and April 2005. It is seen from the Panchnama dated 10.02.2006, the DGCEI officers recovered papers from the premises of the appellants factory. No dispute was raised and the present proceeding was initiated on the basis of visit on 09.01.2007, Shri Ashok B. Bafna, broker of M/s. AIPL made his statement in July 2007 in respect of clearance of goods in 2004 and 2005, which were not testified by cross-examination. 11.1	The adjudicating authority observed that the shortest and more appropriate route for transporting goods from Delhi, Indore and Ahmedabad is alone the NH No.8, which enters into Gujarat from Shyamlajee check post and that since the Lorry Receipt under which the inputs were received by the appellant did not bear the seal of the said Check Post, it must be held that the inputs did not travel from Delhi and Indore to the appellants factory in Gujarat. The appellant contended that the alternative route was taken by the transporter while travelling to Gujarat. There is no logic in the conclusion drawn by the adjudicating authority that the goods would travel by the only route indicated by the department. The transporters for their own reason may not declare the entire goods loaded in the truck that they are carrying or transporting. They may do so for avoiding local RTO taxes or National Permit expired. Moreover, for safety reason also the transporters deliberately may not declare the entire goods loaded in the truck owing to fear of being stolen during transportation of goods to Gujarat. The mere fact that Lorry Receipt did not bear the stamp of the authorities at Check Post is not a ground to presume that the goods had never been transported to the appellants factory. There was no efficient checking in the Inter State Check Posts of Gujarat Border. This would be clear from the survey report of 2003 regarding checking of goods at the check posts, Computerized System at the check posts did not have database creation or alert mechanism for habitual violators of norms. The statements of transporters cannot be relied upon as no cross-examination was allowed. 11.2	It is submitted by the appellant that the adjudicating authority has failed to appreciate that the original importers already booked the material from whom the appellant had purchased the inputs were located in or around New Delhi and Indore. The said importers in or around Delhi and Indore used to book their consignments for their final destination i.e. Delhi and Indore. The appellant could not change it. Further reliance on the deposition made by the representatives of Custom House Agent would also be of no assistance to substantiate the case of the Revenue. It is submitted that merely because clearance of the goods taken place at ICD TKD and the same were initially transported locally by local transporters does not lead to the conclusion that the goods have been sold in Delhi. No evidence has been given by the Revenue to show that the goods were locally disposed of in Delhi. The finding of the Commissioner is that the goods were sold in the factories in Delhi is merely an assumption. In fact, no dealer at Delhi has been identified to whom the said goods has been sold. There is no statement by any person to the effect that the inputs were disposed of in the factories in or around Delhi. 11.3	The adjudicating authority relied on the statement dated 09.01.2007 of Shri Bipin M. Joshi, Accountant of the appellant Company. But, he retracted his statement by letter dated 13.01.2007. It is submitted that the buyers had not disputed the purchase of Scrap and the buyer is not supposed to know the raw material (i.e. Ingot). 12.	We find that on the basis of evidences unearthed during investigation, the Adjudicating authority presumed that the appellant availed CENVAT credit on the basis of the invoices without receiving the goods. But, the presumption was rebutted by appellant before the Adjudicating authority, as recorded from the impugned order, as under:- 13.	In the above cases, as relied upon by the Learned Authorised Representative, it has been held that the burden to prove the receipt of goods on assessee comes, when goods not reaching to its destination as evident from check post documents. On perusal of Annexure A-1 to Show Cause Notice, we find that during the period 2003-04 to 2007-08 (up to June 2007), the appellant purchased 77 consignments to the quantity of 11,27,636 Kgs. imported re-melted Copper Ingots/ Wire, involving CENVAT credit of Rs. 3,88,54,105.00. Annexure A-2 of the Show Cause Notice indicates that during the period 2003-04 to 2005-06 (up to 04.4.2005), the appellant purchased 6 consignments to the quantity of 71,164 Kgs Copper Ingots, from M/s. Annapurna Impex Pvt. Limited, Ludhiana, involving CENVAT credit of Rs. 29,61,982.00. As revealed from the Annexure A-3 to the Show Cause Notice, during the period 2006-07 to 2007-08 (Up to May 2007), the appellant purchased 20 consignments to the quantity of 2,15,276 Kgs of Copper Ingots from M/s. V.K. Metals Works/ Jain Metals Works, Jammu, involving CENVAT credit of Rs. 1,39,42,355.00. Thus, the present case relates to purchase of 103 consignments. 13.1	The appellant submitted the Chartered Accountant certificates that the above materials were purchased by the appellant and duly recorded in their books and accounts and CENVAT records and also reflected in their audited Balance Sheet. It is also certified the consumption of material in the finished goods are in conformity with statutory Audit Reports. There is no material available on record that such huge quantity of inputs of 103 consignments were sold by the appellant in the open market. Further, there is no evidence of procurement of alternative inputs for manufacturing of finished products. Furthermore, the Revenue has not disputed the evidences placed by the appellants, manufacture of finished goods, cleared on payment of duty. The receipt of huge quantity of materials and their utilization in the manufacture of final product, reflected in statutory records and in conformity with the statutory audit report and evidentiary value of such records can not be discarded on the basis of statements and the evidences of third party, relied upon by the Department which were not testified by allowing cross-examination. Furthermore, after thorough investigation, there is no iota of evidence of cash flow of huge amount involved in the 103 consignment. The adjudicating authority observed that Revenue need not establish its case by mathematical precision. In our considered view, evidence placed by the Department, is required to rebut, ought to be convincing, no matter that degree of proof may not be as high as proving the fact, beyond the reasonable doubt, as the test of preponderance of probability would be applicable on both the sides. In the present case, the inference of proof by relevant facts and materials on records, as placed by the appellant, would rationally construe that the issue is in their favour also. 13.2.	The Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in the case of Commissioner vs. Motabhai and Steel Industries -2015 (316) ELT 374 (Guj.) held as under:- 14.1	The appellant in their reply to show cause notice submitted that a certificate issued by Cost Accountant would show the costing of the scrap out of imported Ingots from Srilankan origin vis-`-vis scrap obtained from local/ domestic market. The certificate of Cost Accountant is prepared on the basis of their accounts and as per the standard accounting principles. The cost of production per unit is less than the sales value realized during the year 2003-04 and similar is the position in the rest of the years. It may be appreciated that in one year the cost of product is more than the value realized, it can be said that the Company has occurred loss in that particular year. The profit or loss are both sides of the same coin. Sometimes to minimize the loss Company has to continue production even at loss. So far as remaining years are concerned, the cost of production has been much less than the sales value realized. It is very important to note that the main work is to cut the big pieces of copper into smaller pieces so as to be used by the stainless steel manufacturers and automobile bushes manufacturers. Srilankan origin scrap comes in the form of ingots just to save import duty. The same has to be converted into scrap, if it is to be used by the stainless steel manufacturers and automobile bushes manufacturers. 14.2	During the course of hearing before the Tribunal, the learned Authorised Representative for the Revenue placed a copy of letter dated 13.11.2013 of the Deputy Commissioner (O&A), Office of the Commissioner of Central Excise, Bhavnagar. It is stated in the said letter, on the basis of 7 invoices of supplier of Ingot and 7 invoices of the appellant in June/ July 2005, it was not commercially viable to manufacture copper scrap out of costly imported copper ingots. Further, the Balance Sheet is not relied upon documents to the show cause notice issued and not available in the records. 14.3	The Appellant, in their Written Submissions explained as under:- 14.4	The aforesaid submission was already made by the appellant before the Adjudicating authority and no dispute was raised. We find that the Appellant submitted the cost certificate of the goods showing the economical viability of the goods in converting the ingots to scrap. The Adjudicating authority had not disputed the cost certificate in the Adjudication Order. In our considered view, the viability of manufacturing cost of final product would be determined following the Accounting principle and system of Institute of Cost Accountant and Institute of Chartered Accountant. The appellant submitted that Cost Accountant Certificate. The Deputy Commissioner (O&A) by letter dated 12.11.2013 attempted to ascertain the viability of cost, Profit and Loss only on the basis of 7 invoices of supplier and manufacturer, ignoring the accounting principle, cannot be accepted. 14.5 Section 14AA of Central Excise Act, 1944 was inserted in the statute books providing for Special Audit in certain cases, which is a self contained provisions. As per Section 14AA, if the Commissioner of Central Excise has reason to believe that the credit of duty availed of or utilized under the rules made under this Act by a manufacturer of any excisable goods; has been availed of or utilized by reason of fraud, collusion or any willful mis-statement or suppression of facts; he may direct such manufacturer to get the accounts of his factory, office, depot, distributor or any other place, as may be specified by him, audited by a cost accountant or Chartered accountant nominated by him. The cost accountant or Chartered accountant so nominated shall, within the period specified by the Commissioner of Central Excise, submit a report of such audit duly signed and certified by him to the said Commissioner mentioning therein such other particulars as may be specified. The manufacturer shall be given an opportunity of being heard in respect of any material gathered on the basis of the audit and proposed to be utilized in any proceeding under this Act or rules made thereunder. In the present case, the Adjudicating authority had not directed to get the account of Appellant would be audited by a Cost Accountant or a Chartered Accountant as per the provisions of Central Excise Act, 1944 . On the other hand, the appellant produced Cost certificate, Chartered Accountant certificate of utilization of input in the manufacture of final product. Therefore, the contention of the Adjudicating authority on this issue cannot be accepted. 15.	In view of the above discussion, we find that the demand of duty along with interest and penalty cannot be sustained. Accordingly, the impugned order is set aside. The appeals filed by the Appellant are allowed with consequential relief.