SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: 3 subjective questions to all the non-biased BJP supporters of r/India, related to AVAM.
DATE: 2015-02-06
SCORE: 17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2uwetj/3_subjective_questions_to_all_the_nonbiased_bjp/

--- POST TEXT ---

Just to brief, I personally don't support any of the party contesting elections in Delhi. I only became interested in the topic after the AVAM press conference came to light. 

I have been reading about this topic on this subreddit since last few days and have noticed a very strong inclination towards BJP and against AAP. Someone simply saying that they are voting for AAP (without saying anything against BJP) gets downvoted to oblivion. 

I am not here to fight that or change that. I only have 3 questions on my mind, and want to ask people, who can answer it subjectively, without any prejudice. So, here it goes.

1. Most people are saying here that it doesn't matter that the AVAM is linked to BJP. Only thing that matters is, what they are accusing or pointing out. Now, I would like to point out that from the start they have been constantly stating that they are independent and are not related to any party. They have gone on a record to decline those allegations completely in media. So, how can it not matter (In case those allegations are true) that they are constantly lying to the media and the public about their links to the BJP? Keep your Bias aside, and tell me, wouldn't people more likely believe their story if they were independent(as projected) compared to if they were aligned with BJP(as alleged). Wouldn't this 'little' lie make a little difference in influencing voters. **So, how can it not matter?**

2. The leader of AVAM is now stating in the media that he cannot produce any evidence directly to the media and would like to present them directly to court and let the court decide. Fair enough. But shouldn't he have gone directly to the court with evidence, instead of holding a press conference 3 days before the elections. Doesn't that seem a little too convenient and manufactured to you? Especially when we know that such allegations via PC can do some big damage and cause political tension just in time for the elections.

3. First and foremost, isn't this a responsibility of the Bank, the income tax department and the government of India to ensure that those companies are legitimate, before handing them an Account, PAN and registration number. Why are those aspects not questioned frequently? Why is the entire focus on an alleged fraud, without any concrete evidence? Again, a little too convenient.

Now, I am stating again. I am not a fan of either Kejriwal or most of what AAP does or says. They have constantly shown their inexperience and have been naive in handling tough situations like this. Most of their policies don't consider long term goals and aren't that well thought out. On paper, policies of the Modi government seem much better to me, but I have doubts that they will be executed to their fullest potential. (As any normal Indian citizen should)

This AVAM incident has however made me confused and angry, that a political move of this stature is still a norm in today's society.

I have also seen a sting video of the AVAM members, but I am unsure about it's credibility, so I wouldn't comment on it. 

Your thoughts.

Edit: Some good points and some biased opinions so far. Also, would like to point out that kejriwal indeed made a fool of himself saying that "black money can't be processed through cheques."

Edit2: Well, here goes the rain of down votes on anything positive said about AAP.