In a hit to safe harbour, the Supreme Court (SC) of Brazil has ruled in favour of holding social media platforms accountable for certain types of user posts, according to a report by Reuters. This judgment holds platforms responsible for taking down illegal content. One of the judges who voted in favour of platform accountability said that the current laws in the country fail to hold them responsible for any damage that occurs from harmful content staying online.

The court’s decision comes after the country’s SC instructed X (formerly Twitter) to take down certain accounts on its service based on misinformation charges in April last year . While X initially complied with the orders, it later called the judge who gave the takedown order a dictator and accused him of engaging in censorship. The situation escalated to the point that X was temporarily banned in the country.

In many countries, including India and the US , social media platforms are not held accountable for third-party content. In India, this protection comes under Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act). Without safe harbour, platforms can lean towards the side of being overly cautious and removing content that might fall within the scope of free and legitimate speech. As lawyer Sachin Dhawan had previously pointed out in his post for MediaNama, platforms do not have the time to carry out detailed examinations of content takedown requests. As such, if a user flags a piece of content for takedown, the platform will mechanically comply with user takedown requests to simplify avoid going to court over it.

The scope of safe harbour, however, is weakening across the world. In the US, the Senate Judiciary Committee conducted a hearing on safe harbour last year, going over its impact on online child safety. In India, the IT Ministry had conducted consultations in 2023 for the Digital India Act where it suggested removing safe harbour. The then Minister of State (MoS) for IT, Rajeev Chandrasekhar argued that mentioned that user anonymity and safe harbour together make it harder for the Government to prosecute illegal behaviour online. More recently, reports suggest that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) is looking into revisiting safe harbour. This came after the Government took down a range of Pakistani social media accounts in light of the Pahalgam terror attack on April 22, 2025.

In this context, the Brazil SC’s stance indicates a global trend toward re-evaluating safe harbour protections for social media platforms. This could potentially have far-reaching consequences for content moderation worldwide.

The Indian Government has relied on a sub-section of the safe harbour provision to tackle illegal content online. Section 79(3)(b) of the IT Act says that platforms can lose this liability protection if they fail to remove unlawful content after the Government or its agencies notify them of said content. As such, the Centre has relied on this provision for a range of content takedowns.

According to information released during a legal challenge of this section, the Government mentioned that the Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) has sent 426 content takedown notices under Section 79(3)(b) since March 2024.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event