The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has no data about the number of wrongful rejections of promotional message templates in the past two years, it has mentioned in response to a MediaNama RTI.

To explain, MediaNama had filed this RTI in relation to Indian National Congress (INC) member Praveen Chakravarthy’s X post, where he stated that TRAI had rejected the party’s message template, related to a documentary about alleged vote theft in Maharashtra meant for members of its state cadre, on the grounds that it included protest-related content.

The regulator has also re-emphasised that under the Telecom Commercial Communication Customer Preference Regulation (TCCCPR, 2018), telecom companies are responsible for registering message content templates.

Notably, TRAI had made a similar statement in response to Chakravarthy’s post at the time, stating that it had no role in the acceptance or rejection of such individual SMS campaigns.

The fact that TRAI has no record of any complaints around wrongful rejections of promotional SMS templates in the past two years is concerning because it suggests a level of ambiguity around the content template approval and rejection process.

Importantly when the situation around the INC message template rejection occured, MediaNama had sent the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), which is the telecom industry body, questions about the guidelines telecom operators follow for rejecting promotional content templates and whether there are any mechanisms for businesses to appeal message template rejections. However, we did not receive any response from them.

It’s also worth noting here that while both TRAI and telcos provide mechanisms for customers to complain about grievances related to unsolicited commercial communication (UCC/spam), there is no public information out about how businesses can raise grievances regarding content template registration requests. As such, the zero complaints recorded by TRAI likely reflect this structural gap rather than an absence of problematic rejections.

With TRAI deflecting responsibility to telecom service providers (TSPs), and TSPs operating without clear, standardised criteria for content-based rejections, there’s no clear accountability for decisions that may infringe on constitutional rights. Mishi Choudhary, the founder of Software Freedom Law Center, India (SFLC.in), told MediaNama that TCCCPR does not empower telecom companies to judge political content.

“This situation is related to the bulk messaging template, which is used to avoid spam. Telecom service providers [TSPs] are responsible for this. TRAI has no control over the content of messages; instead, it only lays out the framework and rules. Now, a TSP labelling something (as rejected) based on content that’s objectionable ,” she had explained, while discussing the situation with MediaNama.

The lack of oversight over this labelling creates a system where content-based censorship can occur around promotional messages in an opaque manner without documentation or recourse, effectively allowing speech restrictions to happen through regulatory infrastructure designed for spam prevention rather than content control.

The regulator did not provide answers to any of our questions.

Instead of providing responses to these questions, TRAI provided us with data about the spam complaints customers have sent in since January 2023. Between January and December 2023, TRAI received 139,886 spam complaints against registered telemarketers and 1,222,946 complaints against unregistered telemarketers.

Interestingly, between 2023 and 2024, the complaints against registered telemarketers increased by 36.8% reaching 191,430 by the end of December 2024. These complaints have only increased further in 2025 by 55.8% as of August 2025, reaching 298,371.

Source: RTI Data

Meanwhile, complaints against unregistered telemarketers increased by 42.8% between 2023 and 2024, but declined by 10.9% as of August 2025.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event