1. The petitioner, Indo Alusys Industries Ltd is a company duly 

registered under the Companies Act, filed a petition u/s 9 of Arbitration and 

Conciliation Act 1996 against respondent for stay of operation of mail dated 

22.12.2015 and restraining him from encashing the Bank Guarantee no. Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 1 of 17
 INBG04615000058 dated 11.09.2014 renewed upto 10.10.2016 along with another 

reliefs. 2. It is alleged in the petition that the petitioner company was awarded a 

work order on 23.06.2014 for aluminium works in various towers being constructed 

by the respondent. A mobilization advance of Rs.93,95,691/­ was issued to the 

petitioner company which was secured against a bank guarantee in Development 

Credit Bank, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi. In the petition, it is asserted that work 

was completed by the petitioner company in Tower F against which bills were raised. Part payments were received leaving a balance of Rs.1,31,493/­. It is alleged by the 

petitioner that subsequent to 30.12.2014 the respondent has not been approving the 

drawings and the plans of the project. There had been number of correspondences 

between the parties and eventually the respondent sent a courier dated 23.12.2015 

terminating the contract and seeking refund of Rs.93,95,691/­ through bank 

guarantee. In the petition, the petitioner has claimed that as on date Rs.28,00,000/­ 

has been spent on design, consultancy, sight survey etc. and the petitioner admitted 

that on cancellation of contract Rs.65,76,984/­ are payable which he has offered to 

refund in six installments of Rs. 10,00,000/­ each. The petitioner has prayed that 

respondent is at fault and the petitioner has a good prima facie case of fraud in its 

favour and against respondent and has special equities in the form of preventing 

irretrievable injustice. 3. The respondent filed appearance and contested the contentions of the 

petitioner by refuting each and every allegation made in the petition inter alia stating Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 2 of 17
 that petitioner has not performed the contractual obligations which resulted in delay 

of the project which is evident from the trail of e­mails exchanged between the 

parties. The respondent submitted that the petitioner was not able to provide 

technical acceptable product / design to the respondent and the respondent being the 

sufferer on account of petitioner's failure to complete even sample flats of Tower F 

and Tower A in the project, had finally written an e­mail dated 02.12.2015 to the 

petitioner whereby terminated the said work order as per clause 20 (a) of work order 

on account of non adherence of technical acceptance, design / execution of work 

assigned. The respondent vide e­mail dated 02.12.2015 also requested to the 

petitioner to return the mobilization advance alongwith interest by 12.12.2015 failing 

which the same will be recovered by encashment of mobilization bank guarantee. Despite correspondences and meetings the petitioner failed to return mobilization 

advance amount to the respondent. It is next contended that bank guarantee is an 

independent contract where by a bank undertakes to unconditionally and 

unequivocally abide by its terms and it cannot be affected by disputes between the 

parties. As per agreed clause 17 of duly executed work order dated 23.07.2014 

between the parties the bank guarantee creates an irrevocable obligation on the bank 

to perform the contract in terms thereof and occurrence of events therein, the bank 

guarantee becomes enforceable. There is no iota of evidence suggestive of the suit 

falling under exceptional circumstances. The termination of a contract may only 

give rise to a dispute, the element of fraud is missing. In the absence of any fraud 

the respondent is entitled to realize the bank guarantee. It is contended that 

defendant is a listed entity having a turnover of about Rs.650 crores which clearly 

dis­entitles the petitioner to claim the discretionary relief from this court. It is Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 3 of 17
 further submitted that there is a clear admission by the petitioner in para no. 18 of 

the petition that petitioner is ready and willing to pay a sum of Rs.65,76,984/­ out of 

bank guarantee amounting to Rs.93,95,691/­. It is further contended that the case of 

the petitioner does not fall within the parameters which were made for seeking an 

order of restrain for encashment of bank guarantee. In support of his contentions 

Ld. Counsel for respondent placed reliance upon following case laws : 4. I have heard arguments advanced by Ld. counsel for parties and have 

perused the relevant record. 5. The present dispute pertains to encashment of Bank Guarantee 

against the mobilization advance given by the respondent to the petitioner. In catena 

of judgments Hon'ble Supreme Court has laid down guiding principles for issues 

relating to grant of injunction of restraining the encashment of bank guarantee. In 

case of U.P. State Sugar Corporation vs. Sumac International Ltd AIR 1997 SC Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 4 of 17
 1644, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has dealt with the law relating to 

invocation of bank guarantee and observed that court should be slow in granting 

injunction for realization of bank guarantee and carved out exceptions such as fraud 

and irretrievable injuries. The relevant paragraph nos. 11 to 15 are reproduced as 

under : The two grounds are not necessarily connected, though both may 
 co­exist in some cases. In the case of U.P. Cooperative Federation 
 Ltd. v. Singh Consultants and Engineers (P) Ltd. (988 [1] SCC 174), which was the case of works contract where the performance Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 5 of 17
 guarantee given under the contract was sought to be invoked, this 
 Court, after referring extensively to English and Indian cases on 
 the subject, said that the guarantee must be honoured in 
 accordance with its terms. The bank which gives the guarantee is 
 not concerned in the least with the relations between the supplier 
 and the customer; nor with the question whether the suppler has 
 performed his contractual obligation or not, nor with the question 
 whether the supplier is in default or not. The bank must pay 
 according to the tenor of its guarantee on demand without proof or 
 condition. There are only two exceptions to this rule. The first 
 exception is a case when there is a clear fraud of which the bank 
 has notice. The fraud must be of an agregious nature such as to 
 vitiate the entire underlying transaction. Explaining the kind of 
 fraud that may absolve a bank from honouring its guarantee, this 
 Court in the above case quoted with approval the observations of 
 Sir John Donaldson, M.R. in Bolivinter Oil SA v. Chase Manhattan 
 Bank NA (1984 [1] AER 351 at 352): "The wholly exceptional 
 case where an injunction may be granted is where it is proved that 
 the bank knows that any demand for payment already made or 
 which may thereafter be made will clearly be fraudulent. But the 
 evidence must be clear both as to the fact of fraud and as to the 
 bank's knowledge. It would certainly not normally be sufficient 
 that this rests on the uncorroborated statement of the customer, for 
 irreparable damage can be done to a bank's credit in the relatively 
 brief time which must elapse between the granting of such an 
 injunction and an application by the bank to have it charged". This 
 Court set aside an injunction granted by the High Court to 
 restrain the realisation of the bank guarantee. 12. The same question came up for consideration before this 
 Court in Svenska Handelsbanken v. M/s Indian Charge Chrome & 
 Ors. (1994 [1] SCC 502). The Court once again reiterated that a 
 confirmed bank guarantee/irrevocable letter of credit cannot be 
 interfered with unless there is established fraud or irretrievable 
 injustice involved in the case. Irretrievable injury has to be of the Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 6 of 17
 nature noticed in the case of Itek Corporation v. The First 
 National Bank of Boston etc. (566 Fed Supp. 1210). On the 
 question of fraud this Court confirmed the observations made in 
 the case of U.P. Cooperative Federation Ltd. (supra) and stated 
 that the fraud must be that of the beneficiary, and not the fraud of 
 anyone else. 13. On the question of irretrievable injury which is the second 
 exception to the rule against granting of injunctions when 
 unconditional bank guarantees are sought to be realised the court 
 said in the above case that the irretrievable injury must be of 
 the kind which was the subject­matter of the decision in the Itek 
 Corporation case (supra). In that case an exporter in the U.S.A. 
 entered into an agreement with the Imperial Government of Iran 
 and sought an order terminating its liability on stand by letters of 
 credit issued by an American bank in favour of an Iranian Bank as 
 part of the contract. The relief was sought on account of the 
 situation created after the Iranian revolution when the American 
 Government cancelled the export licences in relation to Iran and 
 the Iranian Government had forcibly taken 52 American citizens 
 as hostages. The U.S. Government had blocked all Iranian assets 
 under the jurisdiction of United States and had cancelled the 
 export contract. The court upheld the contention of the exporter 
 that any claim for damages against the purchaser if decreed by the 
 American Courts would not be executable in Iran under these 
 circumstances and relisation of the bank guarantee/Letters of 
 credit would cause irreparable harm to the plaintiff. This 
 contention was upheld. To avail of this exception, therefore, 
 exceptional circumstances which make it impossible for the 
 guarantor to reimburse himself if the ultimately succeeds, will have 
 to be decisively established. Clearly, a mere apprehension that the 
 other party will not be able to pay, is not enough. In the Itek case 
 (supra) there was a certainty on this issue. Secondly, there was 
 good reason, in that case for the court to be prima facie satisfied 
 that the guarantors i.e. the bank and its customer would be found Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 7 of 17
 entitled to receive the amount paid under the guarantee. 14. Our attention was invited to a number of decisions on this 
 issue ­­ among them, to Larsen & Turbro Ltd. v. Maharashtra 
 State Electricity Board & Ors. (1995 [6] SCC 58) and Hindustan 
 Steel Workers Construction Ltd. v. G.S. Atwal & Co. (Engineers) 
 Pvt. Ltd. (1995 [6] SCC 76) as also to National Thermal Power 
 Corporation Ltd. v. Flowmore Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. (1995 [4] SCC 515). The latest decision is in the case of State of Maharashtra & 
 Anr. v. M/s National Construction Company, Bombay & Anr. (JT 
 1996 [1] SC 156) where this Court has summed up the position by 
 stating, "The rule is well established that a bank issuing a 
 guarantee is not concerned with the underlying contract between 
 the parties to the contract. The duty of the bank under a 
 performance guarantee is created by the document itself. Once 
 the documents are in order the bank giving the guarantee must 
 honour the same and make payment ordinarily unless their is an 
 allegation of fraud or the like. The courts will not interfere directly 
 or indirectly to withhold payment, otherwise trust in commerce 
 internal and international would be irreparably damaged. But that 
 does not mean that the parties to the underlying contract cannot 
 settle the disputes with respect to allegations of breach by resorting 
 to litigation or arbitration as stipulated in the contract. The 
 remedy arising ex­contract is not barred and the cause of action 
 for the same is independent of enforcement of the guarantee." 
 The other recent decision is in Hindustan Steelworks Construction 
 Ltd. v. Tarapore & Co. & Anr. (JT 1996 [6] SC 295). 15. Clearly, therefore, the existence of any dispute between the 
 parties to the contract is not a ground for issuing an injunction to 
 restrain the enforcement of bank guarantees. There must be a 
 fraud in connection with the bank guarantee. In the present case 
 we fail to see any such fraud. The High Court seems to have come 
 to the conclusion that the termination of the contract by the 
 appellant and his claim that the time was of the essence of the 
 contract, are not based on the terms of the contract and, therefore, Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 8 of 17
 there is a fraud in the invocation of the bank guarantee. This is 
 an erroneous view. The disputes between the parties relating to the 
 termination of the contract cannot make invocation of the bank 
 guarantees fraudulent. The High Court has also refereed to the 
 conduct of the appellant in invoking the bank guarantees on an 
 earlier occasion on 12th of April, 1992 and subsequently 
 withdrawing such invocation. The court has used this circumstance 
 in aid of its view that the time was not of the essence of the 
 contract. We fail to see how an earlier invocation of the bank 
 guarantees and subsequent withdrawal of this invocation make the 
 bank guarantees or their invocation tainted with fraud in any 
 manner. Under the terms of the contract it is stipulated that the 
 respondent is required to give unconditional bank guarantees 
 against advance payments as also a similar bank guarantee for 
 due delivery of the contracted plant within the stipulated period. In 
 the absence of any fraud the appellant is entitled to realise the 
 bank guarantees. 6. The latest decision is in the case of M/s Utc Fire & Security India 

Ltd vs. Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited and Anr in OMP no. 529/2014 

pronounced on 27.01.2015. the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has dealt with the issue of 

invoking of Bank Guarantee. The relevant paragraph no. 8 of the said judgment is 

re­produced as under : Larsen & Toubro Ltd. v. Maharashtra State Electricity Board : Accordingly, the Courts are required to see the nature of the 
 bank guarantee furnished by the petitioner. No dispute to the 
 fact that the petitioner had furnished three bank guarantees to 
 respondent No.1. Two were of the nature of performance bank 
 guarantees and the other bank guarantee is a security bank 
 guarantee against the advance. The copies of all the three 
 bank guarantees have been placed on record by the 
 petitioner. All the bank guarantees were payable on demand 
 by respondent No.2. Para 2 in all the three bank guarantees 
 provides that "We Citibank,.....do hereby guarantee and 
 undertake to pay the Employer immediately on demand any 
 or, all monies payable by the Contract, without any demur, 
 reservation, contest, recourse, or protest and /or without any 
 reference to the Contract. Any such demand made by the 
 Employer and the Contractor or any dispute pending 
 notwithstanding any difference between the Employer and the 
 Contract or any dispute pending before any Court, Tribunal, Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 11 of 17
 Arbitrator or any other authority. The bank undertakes not to 
 revoke this guarantee during its currency without previous 
 consent of the Employer and further agrees that the 
 guarantee herein contained shall be enforceable till ninety 
 (90) days after expiry of its validity". In para no. 11 onwards , the Hon'ble Courts has observed : B. Encashment of the bank guarantee would result in irretrievable harm 
 or injustice of an irreversible kind to one of the parties." 13. The petitioner has also contended that since the intention of the 
 respondent in invoking the bank guarantee is to enrich itself and this not 
 only is a fraudulent act on its part, but also inequitable. As discussed 
 above, the fraud of egregious nature played upon the petitioner has to 
 be fraud which has been played upon the petitioner at the time when the 
 bank guarantees were executed by him. The fraud should be of such a Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 13 of 17
 nature which shows that the petitioner was deceptively asked to issue 
 the bank guarantees. As discussed above, in the present case, the 
 petitioner has neither pleaded nor has shown on record any facts which 
 can show that a fraud had been played upon it at the time when the 
 bank guarantees were executed by it. It has also been held by this Court 
 in Consortium of Deepak Cable India Limited (supra) that Courts are 
 precluded from considering the disputes between the parties arising out 
 of the main contract, while dealing with the matters relating to the 
 encashment of the bank guarantees. The existence of a dispute between 
 the parties on account of failure of the terms of the contract does not in 
 any way affect the right of the beneficiary to encash the bank guarantee. The petitioner has also failed to show that he shall suffer an 
 irretrievable injury if the stay is not granted to it. 7. The Hon'ble Courts while dealing with the question of fraud has held 

that fraud was to be established fraud. The fraud should be such which would vitiate 

the very foundation of the bank guarantee. If such a fraud of which the beneficiary 

intends to take advantage, the other party must show that the bank guarantee has 

been fraudulently obtained. The second exception to the rule of granting injunction 

i.e. restitution of irretrievable injury, has to be such a circumstance which would 

make it impossible for guarantor to reimburse himself if he ultimately succeeded. 8. In the instant case, petitioner is seeking stay of operation of mail 

dated 22.12.2015 and restraining respondent from encashing the bank guarantee. At 

this stage, it is expedient to notice the relevant terms of bank guarantee which are as 

under:­

 NOW THEREFORE THIS DEED WITNESSTH AS FOLLOWS: The petitioner has no prima facie case to succeed. The balance of convenience also 

is not in favour of petitioner. No relief of the nature prayed for by the petitioner 

under Section 9 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act can be granted. 12. The petition is hereby dismissed. There is no case for interference 

into the encashment of bank guarantee, therefore, the order dated 20.01.2016 stands 

vacated. No order as to the cost. File be consigned to record room. Indo Alusys Industries Ltd. vs. India Bulls Construction Ltd. 29.01.2016

Present : Sh. Rajesh Banati, counsel for petitioner. Sh. Vinod Kumar, counsel for respondent. Vide separate judgment of even date the petition is dismissed. There 

is no case for interference into the encashment of bank guarantee, therefore, the 

order dated 20.01.2016 stands vacated. No order as to the cost. File be consigned to 

record room. (Vineeta Goyal)
 Additional District Judge­01,
 NDD/PHC/New Delhi/29.01.2016 Arbitration no. 7/16 Indo Alusys Industries Ltd V. India Bulls Construction Ltd. Page no. 18 of 17