The Telangana government cannot insist on collecting Aadhaar and caste details from property owners through its Dharani land records portal, the Telangana High Court has declared. In a major setback to the state government’s plan to digitise land records in the state, the court has issued a stay, directed it to not collect any details from non-agricultural land owners on the Dharani portal.

The court’s order , issued on Monday but made public on late Tuesday evening, flagged the use of Aadhaar for purposes not involving welfare schemes, and for the complete absence of provisions to ensure data security. The two-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan, held that the government’s mandate was violative of the right to privacy, as established in the Puttaswamy judgement.

The Dharani portal is part of the state government’s grand scheme for land reform in Telangana. Digitisation was supposed to address corruption across the system. Over October, the government went on a publicity drive, calling on citizens who own any kind of land to enter their property ownership details on the portal. Aadhaar and caste details (only confined to broad categories such as OC, SC and ST) were made mandatory .

In October, two separate public interest litigations (PIL) and a writ petition were filed in the court, asking for the court to declare the collection of Aadhaar from property owners and their family members as “unconstitutional”. One of the PILs also asked for the court directions to the government to delete all personal information it has collected till date from its records and databases.

According to the Aadhaar Act, 2016, the court noted, the state government can collect Aadhaar details only for the purpose of establishing identity with regard to welfare scheme. Furthermore, the Dharani scheme was floated under the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadhar Pass Books Act, 2020 (Act of 2020), which did not prescribe the collection of Aadhaar number.

“Hence, the Dharani Scheme dealing with the agricultural lands, floated under the Act of 2020, cannot be permitted seek Aadhaar Card details from the people” — Telangana High Court

State fails to convince court otherwise: The state Advocate General argued that the government had brought in the system to minimise fraud in property ownership and transfer. He claimed that the state government investment support scheme for farmers, Rythu Bandhu, is clearly a welfare scheme, and seeking Aadhaar details is justified. The court, however, remained unconvinced. It pointed out that the Act of 2020, did not have any provisions on collecting Aadhaar details. “Thus, prima facie, when Dharani portal makes it mandatory that the Aadhaar number must be given, such a requirement does not have the backing of Act of 2020.”

The court deliberated at length about the security of all personal information collected by the government so far. It held that the data being collected is prone to leakage, or even abuse by the state, and is hence a violation of the right to privacy.

“Therefore, the data being collected by the Government is prone to leakage; is prone to being abused by the State, or by a third patty. Such unregulated access to the information data clearly violates the right of privacy, a Fundamental right, of the people at large ” — Telangana High Court (emphasis added)

“Under what circumstances the information so collected can be accessed? By whom such information can be be accessed? And whether the person whose information is being accessed would have a right to a prior notice or not? Thus, the Act of 2020 nowhere deals with the protection, security and safety of the information data being collected ” — Telangana High Court (emphasis added)

“It is rather obvious that the State will not lose anything if the people were not to reveal their caste, or not to mention their Aadhaar number while uploading the details of the agricultural land. However, the people at large will lose vital, and personal information which as mentioned above, may be subjected to grave peril. Even with regard to the non-agricultural land, people will be forced to reveal their sensitive personal data or information. Thus, it is the people who will suffer a setback while the State has nothing to lose. Thus, even the balance of convenience is in favour of the petitioners, and not in favour of the respondent, State” — Telangana High Court (emphasis added)

The petitioners also challenged all collection of details from non-agricultural land owners in the state. The Act of 2020, they said, was only limited to agricultural land, and government’s insistence on collecting details on non-agricultural land via Dharani portal is “without any backing of law”.

“For, Dharani Portal is limited to only agricultural land. But the details of the non-agricultural land is also being sought to be uploaded on the Dharani Portal. Therefore, the requirement of having to place the details of non-agricultural land on Dharani Portal is self-contradictory, and patently illegal” — Telangana High Court (emphasis added)

The government sought two weeks time to file its counter. Meanwhile, the Court noted that once sensitive personal information falls into the hands of the State or of a third party, it would cause “irreparable loss” to citizens. “Since the State has not placed any evidence to show that the information data is protected, safe and sound, there is no convincing evidence that in fact, the information is presently safe and sound.”

The stay will continue till November 23.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event