SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of this new scam in trains
DATE: 2023-12-25
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/18qh7y6/beware_of_this_new_scam_in_trains/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday I was travelling from Nizamuddin to indore. I had to book sleeper coz AC ones couldn't book in tatkal. So When I went to my side lower seat there were 3 people sitting(1 couple and 1 guy). They said we have the ticket (attached the photo) At first I was stunned to see they have CNF status also PNR is same. I knew something is wrong. PNR can't be same. Those guys had two same print outs, one of them is bought for 850 rs and another couple one was bought for 1200 rs, I explained them that your printout shows U bought it at 8:30pm but train chart prepares 4 hours earlier. After that no one can book nothing. But they paid for it and had this printout so called "Ticket", so I was waiting for TT, but those corrupt people just didn't come once. Also the coach was crowded. I had to adjust and skip my dinner becuase of them. We 4 people sat on the side lower.

So what's the scam? How it happened? It happened in New delhi Railway station. The image you see it's just a PNR enquiry web page printout. When they put up the chart 4 hours before. Scammers take out random PNR and open railway pnr enquiry website. And just print out that page. Innocent and unaware people think it's a ticket coz it has all the detail but not the passenger name. and they sell it outside counter for anywhere between 500-1000 and so many people buy it. The sad part is they have a belief that their ticket is genuine and can never be convinced without TT. And the genuine ticket passenger has to suffer, argue with them. They could earn in lakhs doing this as ndls is a huge station. And they are selling pnr enquiry prinouts for many trains.

Did I get relief? Yes called rail madad, one time RPF denied that it's a job of TT. We don't have authority to do it. Then I raised concerns everywhere including Twitter. Then a police man came in middle of night. Even he was confused I explained him. Then he sent our tickets to some TT they told him mine is genuine. He made them get up and had argument with those people. Somehow I have sympathy for those people that they have been scammed but have anger also that why can't u be educated about it. They had smartphone and we're seeing train status and all. So even after they got up, the lady kept on setting I didn't tell her to get up also. I managed my legs sideways. As the coach was already too crowded and she was like 35-40s years old. Finally after Kota I had my seat.

Lesson learnt:- if couldn't Book ac coach then will prefer to vomit overnight in bus journey than take a sleeper coach.

Thanks for reading.