The petitioner appearing as party-in-person has filed

this writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the

Constitution of India read with Section 482 of Cr.P.C.

praying to grant the following reliefs: 2. The case of the petitioner, party-in-person, is

that he was an upright and meritorious Central

Government Servant served for 15 years and he was the

only whistle blower in the whole of the Indian Institute of

Astrophysics (Autonomous Institute under Department of

Science and Technology, Government of India) to file

cases on Rs.2,000/- crore cheating and misappropriation

of the public funds jointly by the Management and staff of

the said Institute. The list of civil and criminal cases are

as follows; i) O.A.No.21/2011 (W.P.No.38412/2012 (S-CAT) ii) O.A.No.1565/2015 (W.P.No.26063/2018(S-CAT) iii) O.A.No.13/2016 iv) O.A.No.590/2016 v) O.A.No.929/2016 vi) O.A.No.521/2017 7 vii) F.I.R. No.8204/2018 (P.C.R. No.8204/2018) viii) P.C.R. No.14364/2017) ix) Lokpal complaint etc.,

Apart from civil and criminal cases which were pending for

final disposal, some of the cases have become infructuous

due to inordinate delay. He has alleged that one Dr.

P.Sreekumar, an Ex-Director of the said institute took

advantage of his Malayalee Nayar community related to

the Presiding Officer of a Central Administrative Tribunal

(CAT), Bengaluru Bench, Dr. K.B. Suresh for colluding with

him for the purpose of jointly co-operating with each other

to hatch criminal conspiracy for dismissing the impeccable

charactered petitioner from the government service as a

remedy to permanently obliterate the aforesaid whistle

blowing acts and more importantly to safeguard himself

from criminal prosecution in the aforesaid scam cases

(being the prime accused in scam). For this very purpose,

Dr. P.Sreekumar had used one Ms.C.R. Sangeetha as

Honey Trap woman to Dr. K.B.Suresh for committing a 8 CASE_FIXED_DEAL_CRIME for passing a

CASE_FIX_DEALT_ORDER in petitioner's case

O.A.No.170/0982/2015. On enjoying the Honey Trap

woman, Dr. K.B.Suresh criminally heard the Out_of_Court

advises as his observations, contents and finding of fact in

the case. Dr. P.Sreekumar and Ms.C.R. Sangeetha and

others on the other hand gravely and heinously defaming

and irreparably injured the impeccable character of the

petitioners' conduct, career and service with utterly

criminally motivated remarks. Consequently, Dr.

P.Sreekumar used the CASE FIXED DEALT ORDER as a

vital documentary evidence to prosecute the petitioner to

an utterly false disciplinary case to charge sheet him.

Later, in the inquiry, he prevented petitioner to fairly

cross-examine the Management witnesses to unearth the

truth on the CASE FIXING DEAL CRIME and he abruptly

stopped the inquiry. Thus, without completing inquiry and

without inquiry report, Dr. P.Sreekumar, dictatorially

awarded petitioner with capital punishment for government

service (dismissal from Government service). Without 9 delay, the petitioner filed criminal case in PCR.

No.14364/2017 in IV ACMM Court on this matter, but Dr.

K.B.Suresh has been recklessly interfering to influence,

prejudice and pressurize every Magistrate of IV ACMM

Court to dismiss this case without a trial on accused.

Thus, Dr.K.B.Suresh has been criminally destroying each

and every police/criminal cases in which his involvement is

to be probed. On the other hand, he has been routinely

implicating the petitioner into one or the other false cases

by influencing the Police/Magistrate to convict and

sentence petitioner to imprison and endanger petitioner's

life and liberty. Hence, the writ petition is filed for reliefs. 3. The petitioner further contended that grave

defamatory remarks, contents, observations and findings

passed by Dr. P.Sreekumar in order to dismiss petitioner

from his Government service has barred petitioner from

his chances for re-employment in at-least Private sectors

also. Thus, due to unemployment, petitioner's dependents

are also thrown on streets starving for their lives, liberties 10 and fraternities and embattling for access to justice. Thus,

for discharging a fundamental duty as a citizen of India for

protecting the public property (public funds), petitioner's

entire family has been targeted, victimized and irreparably

injured. The petitioner is already a victim suffering

irreparable injuries at their hands. Further by implicating

him in false cases to lock him in jail to evade their crimes,

they are jeopardizing the life of petitioner. Further

contended that to prevent investigation on his

involvement, Dr. K.B.Suresh has been recklessly abusing

his vested powers and authorities and machineries and his

henchmen staff of CAT to mislead and to successfully

influence, prejudice and pressurize various Judges of

various Courts to pass their orders to conceal his crimes,

the Judges of the High Court of Karnataka in WP

No.51917/2016 (S-CAT) and RP No.54/2017, the Judges of

Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in SLP (C) No.9362-

9363/2019 and RP(C) No.1036-1037/2019 and Chairman

of the Central Administrative Tribunal in the Transfer

Petitions vide P.T.Nos.241/2017 & 242/2017. He has 11 been recklessly making his best criminal efforts to

influence the Police Authorities and every Magistrates of IV

ACMM Court and X ACMM Court for dismissing the cases

without investigation and trial on accused while he

recklessly made his best criminal efforts to influence the

Advocate General to grant sanction to initiate criminal

contempt on him for filing complaint to Hon'ble President

of India on CASE_FIXING_DEAL_CRIME and for this

purpose he used M/s. Sundaraswamy & Ramdas Advocates

as his private lawyers at the expense of Indian Institute of

Astrophysics to file two criminal contempt cases. Further,

recklessly influencing the Police Authorities and

Magistrates of X ACMM Court, Mayohall Unit for

successfully charge sheeting, convicting and sentencing

the petitioner in CC No.50750/2020. The petitioner further

alleges that Dr. K.B. Suresh through his henchmen (CAT

staff and Ms. C.R. Sangeetha) has been secretly poaching

concerned Court's Bench Clerks/Court Officers, Scrutiny

staff for the sake of espionage/informers on petitioner's

each and every freshly filed cases for compelling them to 12 some how create unwarranted scrutiny objections etc. to

dismiss the cases at scrutiny stage itself. If scrutiny is

cleared and passed, then they prey on peititoner's

advocates by secretly poaching, prejudicing and controlling

more than 17 numbers of Fee paid Lawyers of petitioners

who were on case records for petitioner's cases to use

them as their spies/informers for ascertaining complete

case documents for successfully motivating them to be

absent themselves for courts for their arguments so that

Judges dismiss the cases and to breach petitioner's

interest by creating unwarranted conflicts with him to

obliterate with him. Under such critical situation and

circumstance only without any other remedy, petitioner

has been compellingly contesting all of his still pending

cases as party-in-person. He further alleges that more

seriously they are preying on Judges to get their goals

fulfilled. Dr. K.B. suresh is such a predator to prey on all

upright Judges, Police, Court Staff, Advocate General,

Government Functionaries, petitioner's advocates,

presently respondent No.3 to entrap them to his 13 enticement to successfully fulfill his criminal goals. The

Honey Trap woman is the root cause who transformed

Dr.K.B.Suresh to such a notorious offender. He further

alleges that respondent No.3 has joined Dr. K.B. Suresh to

abet his committed crimes on petitioner. Despite

perpetrating all these hard core crimes, he is enjoying his

life to his best without even a trivial inquiry or

investigation or action. He also contended that the Court

shall take suo motu cognizance of the crimes for ordering

SIT to probe on Dr. K.B. Suresh's offences. 4. The petitioner has further contended that he

has absolute fundamental right to seek justice and filed WP

No.49540/2018 (GM-RES) praying to nominate a retired

justice to chair Special Investigation Team (SIT) to

ascertain all evidences through the assistance of Police/CBI

to probe a National Shame based grave

CASE_FIXING_DEAL_CRIME committed by Dr. K.B.Suresh

with Ms. C.R. Sangeetha and Dr. P. Sreekumar to submit

probe report for strictest criminal and disciplinary actions 14 on culprits, which case is still pending for final hearing. To

convince the Court for passing orders for setting up of the

SIT, petitioner ought to file substantiating evidences to

justify his allegations. To ascertain one small piece of

evidence out of several evidences, only the petitioner had

filed an RTI-Application (Annexure-A) to the Central Public

Information Officer (CPIO) of the Central Administrative

Tribunal (CAT), but such a piece of evidence was

intentionally denied for furnishing because evidence

justifies the CASE_FIXING_DEAL_CRIME. He further

contended that the substance and contention of each

Annexure is briefly averred in the List of Events (Dates) in

reference to the Index of writ petition, which information

has been satisfactorily furnished by CPIO-CAT in reference

to petitioner's RTI Act application (Annexure-A). The

information at Sl.No.1 in Annexure-A has been furnished

satisfactorily which information (documents) is not

furnished by CPIO-CAT in reference to petitioner's RTI Act Application. The information at Sl.Nos.2 and 3 is a vital

evidence for proving the CASE_FIXING_DEAL_CRIME 15 needed for W.P.No.49450/2018 (GM-RES). A Fraudulent

maneuver is adopted by CPIO-CAT to conceal or not to

furnish the sought information for Sl.No.2 in Annexure-A.

Respondent No.5 claims that furnishing information for

Sl.No.1 in Annexure-A itself is information for Sl.No.2 also,

which is false. The CPIO-CAT furnished document which is

not for Sl.No.2. One independent Ledger/Register Book is

maintained in each of the three branches for inventory

records purpose for movement of case files from one

Branch to another for tracing, tracking and locating the

case files. As and when a case file has been moved from

one Branch to another, a concerned staff, writes in serial

order the date, case number, party name etc. and

adjoiningly puts his/her initial (signature). This is a trite

law procedure. The CPIO-CAT is not justified in furnishing

the documents probably belongs to Judiciary-2, but not to

Administration Branch. The CPIO CAT furnished the

document (Annexure-B) dated 24.06.2016. The name of

the petitioner mentioned below in O.A.No.170/0982/2015

and respective names and addresses of respondents are 16 written from Sl.Nos.85 to 97 (total 13 entries for 13

respondents) in serial order by one Mr. Basappa,

concerned staff of Judiciary-2 Branch, with his signature

and date and has forwarded respondent, copies of case

files along with cause-title sheets from Judiciary-2 Branch

to Administration Branch on 24.06.2016 (Friday) at around

4 p.m. The concerned staff of Administration Branch

though received the same on 24.06.2016, but signed the

receipt in Ledger book only on 27.06.2016 (Monday).

Section Officer of the Judiciary-2 Branch, Mr. T. Srinivasa

has confirmed that Administration Branch has received

documents on 27.06.2016 and hence, he signed with date

27.06.2016 vertically on the left margin of the Ledger book

to indicate that the case documents are pending in

Administration Branch as on 27.06.2016. Both Mr.

T.Srinivasa and Mr. Basappa belong to Judiciary-2 but not

Administration Branch as on that date, since concerned

staff of Administration Branch did not write case details,

signature with by Ordinary Post, etc on 27.06.2016 in

Annexure-B, but the Ledger book is entirely different which 17 CPIO CAT has been concealing from petitioner's inspection

till date. So that CPIO CAT furnished document

(Annexure-B) belong to judiciary-2 Branch. Thus furnished

information is for Sl.No.1 but not for Sl.No.2. The cause of

action for filing the first appeal (Annexure-C) and second

appeal (Annexure-D) under RTI Act for non-furnishing of

sought information is at Sl.Nos.2 and 3 of his RTI Act Application (Annexure-A). Sl.No.2 is incriminatory

evidence. 5. The petitioner has further alleged the hidden

criminal motives of CPIO-CAT (A.Thomeena) for not

furnishing documents sought by the petitioner in Sl.NO.2

in annexure-A. That on 27.06.2016, the Administration

Branch of CAT dispatched case (O.A.No.170/0982/2015)

documents by ordinary post. Shockingly, on the same

date, the Ledger book of Receipt Section of the Indian

Institute of Astrophysics (Respondents) also made entries

to claim, they received the same by post on 27.06.2016

itself. Even Post Master General of India also knows that 18 Ordinary Post will never deliver to the recipient address on

the same day. The evidence is one of several evidences

which proves that Dr. K.B. Suresh of CAT and Dr. P.

Sreekumar of Indian Institute of Astrophysics jointly

committed CASE_FIXING_DEAL CRIME for passing a

CASE_FIX_DEALT_ORDER and for concealing such crime,

they have been recklessly fabricating, tampering, forging

various court documents, court orders etc. to prevent

investigation on them and to injure innocent petitioner

since the petitioner has averred all these facts in WP

No.49540/2018 (GM-RES), Crl.CCC.No.7/2018 and WP

No.50205/2019 (GM-RES-PIL) and entire copies of these

case files are served to Mr. T. Srinivasa, A Thomeena etc.,

Hence, they are aware of every bit of sensitive matters on

Case_Fixing_Deal_Crime. Hence, to prevent that SIT-

Probe on them, as per the instructions of Dr. K.B.Suresh,

the CPIO-CAT (A.Thomeena) did not furnish petitioner's

sought information (document) in Sl.No.2 of Annexure-A.

He further alleges that the findings of Respondent No.3

twist in Annexure-F to that of an oral order. During Video 19 Conference hearing, the petitioner argued as stated in para

No.4.14. Accordingly, three times, Respondent No.3

repeatedly ordered to CPIO-CAT to provide opportunity to

petitioner for his inspection of Ledger Book referred in

Sl.No.2 of Annexure-A. Accordingly, CPIO-CAT to furnish

certified copies of extracts of selected pages by collecting

applicable page charges. Consequent to the oral order,

Dr.K.B.Suresh intensely influenced Respondent No.3 to fix

him to smartly twist his oral order. Accordingly, as per

the advise of Dr. K.B.Suresh, Respondent No.3 passed his

order (Annexure-F) to observe CPIO-CAT already furnished

information (document) for Sl.No.2. Thus, the order is

pervert and illegal which needs to be quashed. Later,

petitioner through his complaint disputed this twisting of

oral order and pleaded for amending his order. But

Respondent No. 3 did not oblige it. Later, petitioner

submitted his reminder-cum-notice, still no action taken by

Respondent No. 3. Respondent No. 3 outrightly denied to

furnish any information. This act of Respondent No.3

proves that he colluded with CPIO-CAT to pass pervert and 20 illegal order. He further alleged that to fulfill criminal goals,

the CPIO-CAT filed a false complaint in CIR No.228/2019

now pending in CC No.50705/2020. He has sought

information at Sl.No.2 in Annexure-A as per her promise,

but she harassed petitioner to such an extent that she and

her henchmen jointly abused and attacked him shouting

Respondent No.3 has not passed an order for furnishing

documents for Sl.No.2 and then the CPIO-CAT started

blackmailing the petitioner that if he does not collect the

documents and write his note stating "he inspected

documents and obtained satisfactory information" for filing

the compliance report to Respondent No.3 for closing the

case, then, she lodges a police complaint on him. The

petitioner suspecting that the Administration Branch might

have been tampered/fabricated/forged by now, to exhaust

remedy from Respondent No. 3 for non-compliance of

Annexure-F and soon after release from jail on bail, the

petitioner submitted a complaint to Respondent No.3 for

initiating action under Sections 20 and 21 of the RTI Act,

2005. Respondent No.3 promptly issued a letter to the 21 CPIO-CAT seeking explanation for non-compliance of

Annexure-F to Respondent 3, but no further action is taken

till date. The said Dr. K.B.Suresh and his henchmen

perpetrate on petitioner consequent to his judicial custody

ordered by the Magistrate despite actual crime being

committed by the CPIO-CAT and others on the petitioner,

still by abusing their power and authority, and by

influencing Mr. M.Diwakar, Station House Officer, filed a

twisted and false complaint on petitioner and registered

FIR No.228/2019 against him. The petitioner got arrested

and sent to judicial custody. This news publicized to

defame the impeccable character and dignity of the

petitioner. The petitioner yet to be served with the charge

sheet. More serious is Dr. K.B.Suresh and his henchmen

CPIO-CAT, Mr. T.Srinivasa motivated Mr.M.Diwakar to

enter the official chamber of the Magistrate of the X ACMM

Court for influencing the Magistrate to convict and

sentence the petitioner, the petitioner was also present in

the Court hall waiting for commencement of open court for

attending the proceedings. The modus operandi of 22 Dr.K.B.Suresh is routinely taking place and Respondent

No.3 is the latest prey who got entrapped to Dr.

K.B.Suresh. Hence, he has filed this petition. 6. The petitioner further alleged that the Station

House Officer of the Police Station was part and parcel of

the crime. Hence, the petitioner filed the complaint to the

Assistant Police Commissioner who was superior, but no

action has been taken. Further he also filed to the

Commissioner of Police and then to Director General of

Police. No action has been taken. Hence, he filed PCR

No.55937/2019 before the X ACMM, Mayo Hall Unit,

Bengaluru, to secure sanction order under Section 197 of

Cr.P.C. for prosecuting the case for investigation for the

alleged crime. It is not the petitioner, but the

Investigating Officer to secure the sanction order, but still

the petitioner submitted application before the competent

authority. Till date, no reply. The case is not proceeded

further. Thus, Dr. K.B.Suresh has been influencing the

competent authorities not to grant any sanction to 23 prosecute against him. The accused committed the

offences punishable under Sections 116 , 119 , 120B , 166 , 167 , 182 , 191 , 192 , 195 , 196 , 203 , 204 , 209 , 211 , 217 , 323 , 336 , 342 , 500 and 504 of IPC. 7. The petitioner further alleges that prior to

production of petitioner before the Magistrate in the

Halasuru Police Station, the SHO Mr. M. Diwakar

voluntarily shown written complaint of Ms. A Thomeena to

petitioner and deceptively instructed him to record his

version of defense statement for complaint which shall be

filed along with FIR No.228/2019 in the Court. The

petitioner read the contents of the complaint which plainly

alleged that petitioner shouted at Ms. A.Thomeena for not

providing him an opportunity for his inspection of

document, so that the Police can take action. Accordingly,

the petitioner recorded his statement. Then he was taken

to Court and produced before the X ACMM and remanded

to judicial custody. The present copy of the complaint is

not the original complaint filed by Ms. Thomeena. The 24 petitioner further alleges that as per the legal provisions,

there is a specially expressed legal bar engrafted in

respect of Section 21 of the RTI Act. The petitioner enjoys

immunity from being prosecuted. Therefore, Criminal

Petition under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. is maintainable and

he is entitled for the relief. He further alleges that on bare

perusal and examination of all the allegations made by

Ms.A.Thomeena on the petitioner in her complaint is a

verbal altercation between the petitioner and Thomeena

and that it is actually the petitioner was to discharge his

obligatory duty for his Inspection of documents as per

quasi-judicial order, but the said Thomeena was assaulted,

prevented and obstructed to serve her vested criminal

interest and she dictatorially denied to furnish the sought

information. Further, she and her co-staff attacked the

petitioner using foul and filthy language, but they twisted

and filed false complaint against the petitioner. The

averments made in the complaint does not state any

offence under Sections 353 and 506 of IPC. He further

contended that continuing the proceedings against the 25 petitioner amounts to abuse of process of law and

therefore, prayed for allowing the petition and sought

various reliefs. 8. Smt. Anupama Hegde, learned Central

Government Standing Counsel appearing for respondent

Nos.1, 2 and 5. Learned High Court Government Pleader

appears for respondent No.4. Respondent No.3 is served and unrepresented. 9. Learned Central Government Standing Counsel

appearing for respondent No.5 filed written objections

contending that the prayer sought by the petitioner is

devoid of merits and the same is liable to be dismissed. It

is contended that the petitioner filed the application on

04.12.2017 before the Central Public Information Officer

(CPIO), Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Bangalore

under RTI Act, 2005 seeking certain information. The said

documents were furnished to the petitioner on 18.12.2017

with reference to query Nos.1 and 2, copies of the

Dispatch Register, Book extracts of Admin and Judicial. 26 However, query No.3, an endorsement was given stating

that since the same are court proceedings, the documents

sought for by the petitioner cannot be supplied in terms of Section 8(1)(h) of the RTI Act. He has filed an appeal to

the Appellate Authority and sought for supply of document

at query No.3 and the Central Information Commission

passed the order dated 09.02.2018. Based upon that

order, the petitioner was informed to attend the office on

24.07.2019. Accordingly he was allowed to inspect the

document and later he has stated saying that even though

the CIC has recorded that he has sought a copy of CAT-

Judiciary Section-II, Dispatch Register Book Extract and

related documents with respect to suo motu proceeding

No.1/2017, it was brought to the notice of the petitioner

that the appropriate reply has been provided by CPIO in

respect of query No.2 of the RTI application dated

04.12.2017. Hearing this, the petitioner started shouting

and threatening at the APIO and CPIO that there is lot of

criminal activities and fabrications going on and that he

will throw the copies of the documents mentioned in para 27 3 to the dustbin and the petitioner went on

saying/repeating in high voice that officers have colluded

and done many criminal activities. Therefore, the

complaint came to be lodged in Halasuru Police. It is

further stated that the incident has been reported to CIC

vide report dated 30.07.2019 and the petitioner also

complained before the CIC through his application dated

24.07.2019. The respondent No.5-CIC, on 12.09.2019,

has replied to the complaint of the petitioner dated

09.09.2019. It is further contended that the allegations

made in paragraph No.4.3 that inordinate delay was

caused deliberately in deciding cases and goals of all

offenders of in famous CASE_FIX_DEAL_CRIME are false

and baseless and at the request of the petitioner

remaining, pending cases are transferred to the Principal

Bench, New Delhi. The respondent has given the list of

cases and further contended that the allegation made by

the petitioner against the office of respondent No.5 in

paragraph Nos.4.4 to 4.8 are false and baseless. The

allegations in paragraph Nos.5A, 6, 7, 8, 9 in the petition 28 against the CPIO-Ms. A. Thomeena are false and baseless.

All contentions raised by the petitioner specially perverse

and denied as false. Hence, prayed for dismissal of the

petition. 10. Having heard the arguments of the petitioner,

party-in-person, learned counsel appearing for the

respondents, though the petitioner stated lengthy

pleadings and various allegations in respect of his case,

the sum and substance of the case of the petitioner is that

the petitioner was a dismissed employee from the Indian

Institute of Astrophysics and he has filed a case against

the employer in O.A.No.170/0982/2015 before the CAT,

Bengaluru by challenging his dismissal. The said case

came to be dismissed and the office of the CAT is said to

have dispatched the case file by ordinary post on

27.06.2016 in the evening at 4.00 p.m., but the employer

of his office said to have received the post on the same

date on 27.06.2016 itself. Therefore, he contends that

there is something wrong in dispatching the said case file 29 through post. If the said file is sent by ordinary post in the

evening on 27.06.2016, it cannot be received by his

employer on the same day. Therefore, he found some foul play in the office of

the CAT. Hence, he filed an application under the RTI Act seeking three information i.e. the order as well as the

Dispatching Registrar Extracts. The CPIO-Respondent

No.5 is said to be the information officer who has partly

allowed the application and rejected the information

sought by him in Sl.No.3. Therefore, he has filed an

appeal before the Respondent No. 3 - Central Information

Commission (CIC) and during his arguments, he alleges

that, the CIC informed orally to allow the petitioner to

inspect the documents and while passing the order,

Respondent No. 3 herein passed the order by allowing the

petitioner to inspect the documents and directing the CPIO

to supply information sought by him, but to his surprise,

he found in the impugned order of Respondent No.3

directed the CPIO to provide an opportunity to the 30 appellant to inspect relevant and available records at

paragraph 3 of RTI application except the affidavit dated

20.11.2017 sought at sub-para-F of RTI application. As

per the direction of CIC, the CPIO-Respondent No.5 issued

notice on 18.07.2019 calling upon him to come and inspect

the documents on 24.07.2019 11. It is alleged further that when he appeared on

24.07.2019, Respondent No.5 and his officers have not

shown the documents for inspection, and they refused to

allow the petitioner to verify those documents. At that

time, there was some quarrel between Respondent No.5

and the petitioner. The petitioner agitated for inspecting

the documents as per the direction of CIC, but they have

not allowed. For that, Respondent No. 5 filed a complaint

against him before the Police for the offence under Section

353 of IPC and he was taken to custody. Later, he was

released on bail. His contention is that the order passed

by Respondent No. 3 is not in accordance with law and

there is collusion between Respondent No.5 and 31 Respondent No. 3. The have made false complaint against

him and kept him in jail. Therefore, he filed a private

complaint before the Magistrate in PCR No.55937/2019

and in order to proceed against them, the Magistrate

insisted prior sanction. Therefore, he has approached

Respondent No.2 for sanction to proceed against

Respondent No.3. It was denied. Therefore, he has filed

this petition directing respondent No.2 to accord sanction

to proceed against respondent No.3 and Respondent No.5

and he has also challenged the proceedings initiated

against him before Halasuru Police on the complaint filed

by Respondent No.5. 12. The petitioner party-in-person has relied upon

various judgments and contended that when he acted for

getting the information sought in the application under the RTI Act as directed by CIC, Respondent No.5 denied the

same. Therefore, he requested Respondent No.5 to

provide the said information, but they filed false complaint

against him. Therefore, continuing proceedings against

him is abuse of process of law. Hence, prayed for 32 quashing the criminal proceedings against him. He also

contended that there is protection under Section 21 of the

RTI Act and no prosecution can be launched against the

applicant. In support of his arguments, he has relied upon

a Single Bench decision of the Kerala High Court. 13. Per contra, learned Central Government

Standing Counsel has opposed the petition and contended

that protection under Section 21 of RTI Act is to the

officials, but not to the applicants and the allegation made

by the petitioner are all false. The petitioner has not filed

any application before Respondent No.2 seeking any

direction for granting sanction and such being the case,

the question of directing issue of writ of mandamus does

not arise and in the application filed for he has not sought

any relief of granting sanction against Respondent No.5.

Such being the case, this Court cannot direct the

authorities to consider any application. In support of her

arguments, she also relied upon several judgments.

Hence, prayed for dismissal of the writ petition. 33 14. On considering the prayer made by the

petitioner, it is seen that when he has agitated for his right

of inspection of the records as per the order of the CIC,

Respondent No.5 filed a false complaint calling upon the

Ulsoor police to register a case against the petitioner

falsely implicating him in the criminal case. He has also

alleged that by misusing the power, manipulating the

documents, manhandling him, defaming his prestige, he

has filed a private complaint against the petitioner. He

was detained in jail and thereafter, released on bail. In

view of the provisions of the RTI Act , a remedy is available

to the petitioner and no prosecution can be launched.

Therefore, the petitioner alleges that the criminal

proceeding pending against him is required to be quashed. 15. The same is seriously objected by the

respondents' counsel. 16. Before going into the merits of the allegation as

against the petitioner, it is worth to mention the provision

under Section 21 of the RTI Act, which reads as under: No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding
 shall lie against any person for anything which
 is in good faith done or intended to be done
 under this Act or any rule made there under." 17. In view of Section 21 of the RTI Act, there is a

protection available to a person and no prosecution or

other legal proceedings can be launched, if anything which

is done in good faith or intended to be done under the Act

and the Rules. 18. The learned Counsel for the respondents has

vehemently contended that the immunity and the

protection is available only to the officers or officials who

have acted under the RTI Act and act done in good faith 35 and such protection is not available to the applicant-

petitioner, who is the party-in-person. 19. In this regard, the petitioner - party-in-person

has relied upon the judgment of the Kerala High Court in

W.P (C) No.13528/2015 decided on 03.08.2015 ( Amrutha

M. George Vs. Spices Board and others ). After

considering the various judgments in the aforesaid

judgment, the Kerala High Court, at para 14, has held as

under: 20. In the aforesaid judgment, the Kerala High

Court has held that the protection is available also to the

applicant and in order to get the protection and immunity

from prosecution, the act is to be done in good faith by the

applicant or an officer/officials under the RTI Act . 21. On perusal of the grounds urged in the case and

the documents produced by the petitioner, it reveals that

as per Annexure-A, on 4.12.2017, the petitioner filed an

application under RTI Act for supply of documents as

under: [*] [NOTE: I NEED ALL CERTIFIED COPIES FOR
 COURT SAKE] 3. Supply following Documents w.respondent t. Suo- Motu ProceedingNo.1/2017 in O.A.No.13/2016:- No.84, there is a date shown as 24.6.2016 Sl. Nos.85 and

86 were mentioned and on the back side again the same 41 date is mentioned was 24.6.2016 and Sl. Nos.87 to 97 are

also mentioned and on the left side margin column, it was

mentioned one person signed by affixing the date as

27.6.2016. 24. The respondents' counsel submits that the

endorsement was made by the supervisor for confirming

the dispatch of the letters by an ordinary post and it was

dispatched on 24.6.2016 itself and there was no

manipulation. The copy of the entries in the dispatch

register has been produced by the petitioner which reveals

that there is a date as 24.6.2016 at Sl. Nos.85 to 96 has

been mentioned and on the right side column, it was

shown as ordinary and on the left side column was

endorsed by one person by affixing the date as 27.6.2016.

The information sought by petitioner in Sl No.1 and 2 has

been furnished by the CPIO. But no copy was furnished as

sought in Sl. No.3 and the CIC directed to issue the

information in the appeal. While inspecting the said

register the petitioner is said to have manhandled the 42 CPIO. Therefore, Respondent No.5 called the police and

lodged the complaint which is registered in criminal case

against the petitioner and he was taken to custody and

remanded to judicial custody and later, he was released on

bail. 25. Now, the question arises before this Court is

whether the act done by the petitioner is in good faith,

which is exempted from prosecution or the protection is

available to the petitioner under section 21 of the RTI Act. 26. Perusal of the complaint given by respondent

No.5 against the petitioner reveals that the petitioner was

called to the office as per the order of the CIC and he was

asked to inspect the documents which he wants. But the

petitioner wanted to inspect some other document for

which respondent No.5 refused stating that it was an

official document. Therefore, refuse the say that the

petitioner started shouting and threatening them at that

time, one Smt. Rajashree CPIO, Smt. Rekhashree who is 43 her Personal Secretary and Smt. Geetha were in the room.

The petitioner said to have threatened and shouted at

them and disrupted the work of office. Due to shout and

cries, the people around gathered. Therefore, Respondent

No. 5 sought an action against the petitioner and by

telephonic call, the police arrived at the spot and the

petitioner was said to be apprehended by the police and

after registering the case, he has been sent to judicial

remand. The police investigated the matter and filed a

charge sheet against the petitioner. The investigation

report reveals that the petitioner has quarreled with the

officials and has stated that the manipulation of documents

is going on and he will dump the documents in a dustbin

and he will teach a lesson and he threatened C.W.1 and 2

and obstructed them from discharging the official duty

which amounts to criminal force on the public servant. 27. Perusal of these records further reveal that

Respondent No.5 had summoned the petitioner for

inspection of the documents as per the order of the CIC. 44 But the petitioner wanted to inspect some other document

which was not permitted him by the CIC. when the same

was refused, he has quarreled with the officials of CAT.

The contention of the petitioner cannot be acceptable that

a false case has been lodged by Respondent No.5 in

collusion with the presiding officer of CAT. If at all the

respondent has refused to allow him to inspect, he should

have complained to the CIC. Even he also wrote a letter to

the CIC on the same day. But he could not have

quarrelled with the officials of CAT and threatened them

stating that he would teach the lesson. It is nothing but

an obstructing the public servant and criminal force on the

public servant while discharging their official duty. It

amounts to an offence under Section 353 of IPC. 28. The main allegation made by the petitioner

against the CAT Member Dr. K.B. Suresh and respondent

No.5 is that the Chairman of the Indian Institute of

Astrophysics is a Keralite person and Dr. K.B. Suresh is

also a Keralite and respondent No.5 is also a Keralite and 45 therefore, he suspects that the Chairman of the Institute

and Dr. K.B. Suresh have colluded with each other and got

dismissed his case in O.A. No.170/0982/2015 which

application was filed by him against his dismissal from

service. The petitioner further alleges that the order of

dismissal and the file has been dispatched only on

27.06.2016 at 4.00 p.m. by an ordinary post, but his

Institute has received the said case file on 27.6.2016 itself

and it is not possible to receive the ordinary post within a

day and he suspects that there is manipulation and

fabrication in the dispatch register maintained by the CAT

office and therefore, he has filed an application under the RTI Act seeking a copy of the dispatch extract, which was

given by the CPIO. Even if it is issued to the petitioner,

again, he suspects and alleges that he himself physically

saw the official carrying the post and dropped it in the post

box on 27.06.2016 and also alleges tat Dr. K.B. Suresh

has intentionally dismissed his application filed against

challenging the termination of his service by the Institute

of Astrophysics. The contention of the petitioner cannot be 46 acceptable as there is no material to presume that once

the dismissal order has been challenged by him before the

CAT which was dismissed and the said order has been

confirmed by the High Court as well as Hon'ble Supreme

Court, now, he cannot come and agitate that because Dr.

K.B. Suresh and respondent No.5 are Keralites, they

conspired against him in dismissing him from the service. 29. That apart, the petitioner has been permitted to

inspect the documents and the CIC issued notice to

respondent No.5 against the allegation made by the

petitioner and respondent No.5 also sent a detailed report

to the CIC. In spite of the same, the petitioner wants

respondent No.3 as well as respondent No.5 to be

prosecuted suspecting that they have willfully denied the

information sought by him and dismissed his application.

Therefore, he has filed a private complaint against

respondent No.5 and the Section Officer of CAT and also

the police officer. He has made allegations against the

police officer Diwakar for having registered a case against 47 him. For the purpose of getting sanction to prosecute

respondent Nos.3 and 5, the petitioner has filed the

present petition directing respondent Nos.1 and 2 to

accord sanction to prosecute against respondent Nos.3

and 5. He has also made number of allegations against

CIC and CPIO of CAT and even he went to the extent

stating that the police officer also influenced X Additional

Magistrate in remanding him to the judicial custody. He

also alleges that Dr. K.B. Suresh is influencing the

Magistrate and that, the Member of the CAT and the

Chairman of the Institute have colluded together and

committed the crime. 30. Apart from that, the petitioner has stated in the

petition that the said Dr. K.B.Suresh has been recklessly

abusing his vested powers and authorities and

machineries, and his henchmen staff of CAT to mislead and

to successfully influence, prejudice and pressurize various

judges of various Courts to pass their orders to conceal his

crime. The petitioner has further stated that the Judges 48 of High Court of Karnataka in W.P. No.51917/2016(S-CAT)

and R.P. 54/2017, and the Judges of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in SLP (C) Nos.9362-9363/2019 and R.P. (C)

No.1036-1037/2019, Chairman of the CAT in Transfer

Petition Nos.241/2017 and 242/2017, while he has been

recklessly making his criminal efforts to influence the

police authorities and every magistrates of IV ACMM Court

and X ACMM Court for dismissing these cases without

investigation. The petitioner also alleges that Dr. K.B.

Suresh has influenced the then Advocate General to grant

sanction to initiate criminal contempt against the petitioner

for filing a complaint to Hon'ble President of India on CASE

FIXING DEAL CRIME, but to reject the sanction to the

petitioner seeking contempt on him, for CASE FIXING

DEAL CRIME. 31. The above said allegation of the petitioner at

para 4.6 of the petition reveals that the petitioner

challenged the order of his dismissal before the CAT and

later, he challenged the same before this High Court and 49 later, before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. He was not

successful in getting the relief. Even in spite of filing the

review petition before the High Court as well as Hon'ble

Supreme Court, the order of dismissal from his service has

been confirmed by this High Court as well as the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. Such being the case, the petitioner is

making allegations not only against Dr. Suresh but also

against the Judges of this Court and the judges of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court, and also making allegations

against the Magistrate for dismissing his complaint. Now,

he wants to take revenge against Dr K.B. Suresh who has

passed the impugned order as a Member of the CAT, which

is nothing but the judicial order. His RTI application came

to be disposed of by respondent No.5 being a CPIO and the

appeal has also been disposed of by respondent No.3-the

Chief Information Commissioner. Again, now, he wants to

initiate criminal proceedings against them and he is

seeking a direction of mandamus to respondent Nos.1 and

2 for according sanction. When he failed to get any relief

from the Courts i.e. from CAT till the Hon'ble Supreme 50 Court, now he is intending to take revenge against Dr. K.B.

Suresh and has filed a complaint and for having quarrelled

with respondent No.5 on 24.07.2016 and Respondent No.5

also filed a complaint against him before the Ulsoor police.

Therefore, he wants to file a counter complaint against her

and also against the police officer, who has registered the

case and arrested the petitioner for having committed the

non-bailable offence. The petitioner is now seeking a

direction to file a complaint against them and he has also

filed an application under RTI Act for providing copy of the

documents and showing the documents. Respondent No.5

stated that some of the copies of the documents cannot be

given as those are the documents pertaining to the judicial

proceedings and he is entitled to receive the same by filing

the copy application and by paying necessary fee on the

documents. When he was not allowed to inspect some of

the documents, the petitioner is said to have used

criminal force on respondent No.5 - CPIO. Even if it is

considered that the applicant has acted under the RTI Act and he is also entitled for protection under Section 21 of 51 RTI Act , apart from the officials under the RTI Act , but for

the reasons stated above, the act of the petitioner cannot

be considered or presumed that it is acted with good faith

in order to seek protection under Section 21 of the RTI

Act. 32. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in a judgment

reported in AIR 2020 SC 4333 in the case of CIC VS. HIGH COURT OF GUJARATH AND ANOTHER, at

paragraphs 28 and 32, has held as under: 28. As discussed earlier, the object of the RTI Act itself recognizes the need to protect
 the institutional interest and also to make
 optimum use of limited fiscal resources and
 preservation of confidentiality of sensitive
 information. The procedure to obtain certified
 copies under the High Court Rules is not
 cumbersome and the procedure is very simple - filing of an application/affidavit along with
 the requisite court fee stating the reasons for
 seeking the information. The information held
 by the High Court on the judicial side are the
 "personal information" of the litigants like title 52 cases and family court matters, etc. Under the
 guise of seeking information under the RTI Act ,
 the process of the court is not to be abused
 and information not to be misused. 32. We fully endorse above views of the
 Delhi High Court. When the High Court Rules
 provide for a mechanism that the
 information/certified copies can be obtained by
 filing an application/affidavit, the provisions of
 the RTI Act are not to be resorted. 33. In view of the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court, the petitioner is entitled to get information on some

of the documents under the RTI Act , but for the

information on the remaining documents, he has to file an

application in accordance with law and receive the copy by

making the necessary payment. Even otherwise, the CIC

has allowed him to inspect the documents. Such being the

case, when some of the documents have not been

furnished to the petitioner, he cannot agitate and quarrel

with respondent No.5 which amounts to criminal force on 53 the pubic servant. Therefore, the petitioner is not entitled

to claim protection under Section 21 of the RTI Act. 34. Apart from that the concept of statutory

immunity is available as protection from legal actions given

to certain persons or entities by statute for the most part

statutory immunity has grown out of and reflects Crowned

immunity and/or judicial immunity, both of which

developed as common law principles. Even Section 52 of

Indian Penal Code provides immunity from the prosecution

if work is done in good faith, and Section 3(22) of General

Clauses Act also defines the term good faith as "A Thing

shall be deemed to be done in good faith where it is in fact

done honestly, whether it is done negligently or not."

Therefore, respondent Nos.3 and 5 were the quasi judicial

authority as well as official of CPIO who are entitled for

immunity for prosecution and protection under the Act.

Though, Section 21 of the RTI Act does not specify

whether it is only to the officials under the RTI Act or also

applicable to the applicant who files application before the 54 public authority for seeking information but the Kerala

High Court has held that this protection available to the

applicants also. However, as I stated in the

aforementioned paragraphs of this order, the petitioner

while getting information has quarreled, misbehaved, and

has shown criminal force on the respondent No.5 and

others officials which cannot be brought under the purview

of Section 21 of the RTI Act. Therefore, the petitioner is

liable to face the trial before the Magistrate and the

proceedings against him cannot be quashed. Accordingly,

the prayer at 8.1 is rejected. 35. As regards with the prayer at 8.2 he has prayed

for issuing the writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the

Quasi Judicial Order passed by the respondent No.3- Chief

information Commissioner and the appeal was filed by the

petitioner wherein the respondent No.3 being appellate

authority has allowed the appeal partly by directing

respondent No.5 to furnish the documents at free of cost

upto 25 pages and also directed the petitioner to pay the 55 amount as per the RTI rules for the remaining pages.

Respondent No.3 also directed the authority to send the

report. The learned respondent No.3 also allowed this

petitioner to inspect the relevant and available records,

sought at Paragraph 3 of the application. The learned

respondent No.3 allowed the applicant to receive the

documents except the affidavit. Therefore, there is no

error or illegality committed by the respondent No.3 in the

impugned order at Annexure-F such being the case, the

question of quashing the said order does not arise. Hence,

the same is liable to be rejected. 36. As regards with the prayer at 8.3 against

respondent No.3 directing to discharge duty under Section

20 of the RTI Act, though the petitioner made several

allegations against the officials/the officers of the CAT

about the conspiracy and passing illegal orders etc., and

filing complaint against him they are all without any basis.

The respondent No.3 Central Information Commissioner

has already discharged his official duty by directing 56 respondent No.5 to furnish some of the documents and to

inspect some of the documents and accordingly the

respondent No.5 by summoning him and allowing him to

inspect the document by issuing notice. However, the

petitioner quarreled with the respondent No.5 and the

officials, due to which a complaint has been lodged against

him with the police and this Court does not find any fault

in the order passed by the respondent No.3. Therefore,

the question of penalizing respondent No.3 or any officials

who acted under the RTI Act as per Section 20 of the RTI

Act does not rise. Hence, the 3rd prayer also liable to be

dismissed. 37. As regard the prayer at 8.4, this is a writ of

mandamus directing respondent No.2 to discharge his

official duty as per Section 21 of the RTI Act and to file an

affidavit in Crime.No.53806/19 which is a complaint given

by respondent No.5 as against the petitioner. The

investigating officer has already completed the

investigation and charge sheet has also been filed. 57 Therefore, respondent No.3-Secretary for CIC, cannot be

directed to file any affidavit in the criminal case and

therefore the same is liable to be rejected. 38. As regards the prayer at 8.5 and 8.6 which is

also to issue writ of mandamus to respondent No.1 and

respondent No.2 to initiate disciplinary action on

respondent No.3. This Court has already held in above said

paragraphs that there is no illegality committed by

respondent No.3 while passing the impugned order at

Annexure-F and also as the immunity or protection is

available to respondent No.3 under Section 21 of the RTI

Act, the direction cannot be issued to respondent No.1 and

respondent No.2 for initiating any action against

respondent No.3. That apart, the petitioner has not filed

any application before respondent No.1 and respondent

No.2 for according sanction to prosecute against

respondent No.3. The respondent's counsel has also

contended that when the petitioner has not filed any

application before respondent No.1 and respondent No.2 58 for seeking sanction to prosecute against respondent No.3,

question of directing respondent Nos.1 and 2 to consider

the application of the petitioner and to accord sanction

does not arise. Admittedly, the petitioner not filed any

such application before the respondent Nos.1 and 2

seeking sanction to prosecute respondent No.3 as accused

No.4 in the private complaint filed by him. Therefore,

question of issuing direction in the form of mandamus

cannot be issued to respondent No.2 and 3 for according

the sanction to prosecute Respondent No.3. Once there is

no demand and refusal of the any permission sought by

the petitioner, the question of directing the Respondent

No.1 and respondent No.2 to consider the prayer does not

arise. Therefore, both the prayers are hereby rejected. 39. On perusal of the entire records it reveals that

the petitioner who is an engineer and employee of Indian

Institute of Astro Physics lost the job in view of the

termination by his employer. He has challenged the order

of termination before the CAT. Thereafter, before the High 59 Court and also before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and he

has failed in all legal battles against his employer. Merely

the application under RTI Act for furnishing some

information regarding dispatch register, whether it was

dispatched on 27.6.16 or it was on 24.6.2016, does not

make much difference as his appeal came to be dismissed

by the CAT and non furnishing of dispatch register will not

prejudice the case of the petitioner. He was failed to get

the relief even from the highest Court of this country, by

dismissing his SLP as well as review petition and filing of

the private complaint against the CPIO and police officers

who are the complainant and investigating officers is only

to take revenge against them with a malafide intention to

tarnish the image of the Quasi Judicial Authority. 40. The petitioner is not only suspecting the CAT

member who passed the judicial order but also suspecting

the Magistrate who was acted as per the provisions of code

of criminal procedure. He is also suspecting the Judges of

the High Court and the Supreme Court stating that the 60 said Dr.K.P.Suresh, CAT member influencing the judiciary

which is not correct. He should have faith in the judiciary.

Once he has suffered the orders but again by way of filing

the RTI application, he tried to take revenge against

respondent Nos.3 and 5 by making so several allegations,

especially the allegation of CASE FIXING DEAL CRIME

which cannot be acceptable as the allegation is without any

basis and therefore the prayers sought by the petitioner

cannot be granted for the reasons stated above. 41. The petitioner-party in person has made a

serious allegation against Dr. K.B. Suresh, a Member of

the CAT, stating that Director of the Astrophysics and the

said Dr. K.B. Suresh having colluded to dismiss his case

and he has been involved in honey trap and he has used

one Ms. C.R. Sangeetha as honey trap woman for

committing a CASE FIXED DEAL CRIME and for passing an

order against him. On enjoying the honey trap woman, he

has passed the order by heinously defaming and 61 irreparably injuring the impeccable character of the

petitioner. The said allegations are without any basis and

can not be acceptable. Once the petitioner is unsuccessful

in his appeal before the High Court as well as the Hon'ble

Supreme Court even in the review petitions, making

allegations against the CAT member is unwarranted. 42. The learned counsel for the respondents submits

that the CPIO of CAT has kept ready the copies of the

documents sought by petitioner and the petitioner is at

liberty to receive the same. The submission the learned

counsel is placed on record. 43. In view of the reasons stated above, the writ

petition is devoid of merits and is liable to be dismissed. 44. Accordingly, writ petition filed by the petitioner

party-in-person is dismissed. However, liberty granted to the petitioner to receive

the documents from the CPIO which is already said to be

kept ready. No order as to costs. Sd/- JUDGE

Mv/CS/akv