Hon'ble S.C. Chaurasia,J. (Delivered by Hon. Devi Prasad Singh, J.)
 

 
1-	Instant writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has been preferred in the nature of quo-warranto against opposite party no. 3, who happens to be the Chairman, U.P. State Electricity Regulatory Commission. It is pleaded that under the statutory provision, he was not eligible for selection and appointment because of interest involved in the State of U.P. of M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. of which he was Vice President. 2-	The petitioner is General Secretary (Jal Vidyut Ikai) (Uttar Pradesh Vidyut Mazdoor Sangh) of an employees' association of the same establishment. The petitioner states that he has concern for the purity of system. It is stated that on his request the scam involving Rs. 5000/- crores was referred for C.B.I. inquiry by the Chief Minister of the State on 2.3.2008. According to learned counsel for the petitioner, the post of Chairman, State Electricity Regulatory Commission (in short Commission) fell vacant on 21.10.2008. The selection committee was constituted by the Government of Uttar Pradesh on 22.12.2008 comprising of three members headed by a retired judge of the High Court and two other members, i.e., Chief Secretary of the State of U.P. and Chairman of the Central Electricity Commission. Thirty persons had applied for the post including respondent no. 3-Rajesh Awasthi and the meeting of the selection committee was convened on 26.12.2008. The selection committee selected two persons, out of thirty, namely, Rajesh Awasthi and one Anil Kumar Asthana and sent the name to the Government. However, while sending the name, the selection committee put a rider that in case the State took a decision to appoint respondent no. 3, then the compliance of the provision contained in sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Electricity Act, 2003 ( in short the Act) be ensured. In pursuance to the request made under the RTI Act , the information with regard to selection was given to one Shri Suresh Chandra Sharma. 3-	The qualification with regard to post of Chairman State Regulatory Commission as provided under sub-section (3) of Section 3 of U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 is as under:- 4-	According to the information given under the RTI Act , it appears that the procedure with regard to selection and the qualification has been assessed and procedure for selection process as well as qualification criteria has been applied keeping in view the provision contained in U.P. State Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 . It further provides that the procedure with regard to selection shall be applied as given in U.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission (appointment and service conditions of the president and members) Rules, 1999. 5-	While pressing for relief in the nature of quo warranto, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the selection committee had not discharged its obligation in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the Rule and statutory provision as contained in the Act. It is further stated that in view of provision contained in sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act, respondent no. 3 could not be selected being an employee of M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. has established two power houses in the State of U.P. situated at Bara and Karchana, District-Allahabad. He has submitted that undue favour was extended to Bara and Karchhana power project by approving higher rate of Rs. 3.02 and Rs. 2.92 per unit, whereas, earlier it was Rs. 2.60 and Rs. 2.59 respectively. Further submission is that the respondent no. 3 was not competent to hold the office and selection was not done in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Act. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that even after assumption of duty, respondent no. 3 extended undue favour to Bara and Karchhana power project. He submits that it was the duty of selection committee to comply with the provision contained in sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act but that was delegated to the State Government. He further submits that the recommendation of selection committee was conditional one and the State Government could not take care to take the decision in terms of sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act. The recommendation of selection committee containing condition envisaged of sub-section (5) of Section 85 is reproduced as under:- 10-	With regard to applicability of rule relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner, it is stated that the rule has been repealed in pursuance to the provision contained in Section 185 of the Act, hence shall not be applicable. 11-	It is not disputed that the respondent no. 3 had worked in M/s. J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. on the post of Vice President. It is also not disputed that while sanctioning the higher per unit tariff rate for Bara and Karchhana power houses, there has been deviation with statutory guideline, but it is stated that it was approved on 28.8.2008 and 13.10.2008 respectively and financial bid was also opened on 6.11.2008, i.e. much before the respondent no. 3 joined M/s. J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. on 17.11.2008, to quote relevant portion of the counter affidavit of the State Government. 12-	From the pleading on record, there appears to be no dispute that the respondent no. 3 was working as a Vice President in M/s. J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. at the time when he was selected by the selection committee. It is also not borne out from the record that any decision was taken in pursuance to recommendation of selection committee and finding was recorded with regard to entitlement of respondent no. 3 keeping in view the provision contained in sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act. Under these backdrops, the controversy in question requires adjudication. 13-	Learned counsel for the petitioner has relied upon the cases reported in (2009) 7 SCC 1 N.Kannadasan Vs. Ajoy Khose and others, (2003) 4 SCC 712 High Court of Gujrat and another vs. Gujarat Kishan Mazdoor Panchayat and others, (2002) 1 SCC 33 Ghulam Qadir vs. Special Tribunal and others, (2005) 8 SCC 202 Centre for Public Interest Litigation and another vs. Union of India and another , 15 FLR 122 Shree Hanuman Foundries Ltd. vs. Hem Ranjan Deb and others, 1965 AIR (SC) 491 University of Mysore vs. C.D.Govinda Rao and ( 2009) 8 SCC 273 Mahesh Chandra Gupta vs. Union of India . 14-	On the other hand, learned counsel for the State has referred a case reported in ( 2006) 11 SCC 731 Retired Armed Forces Medical Association & others vs. Union of India and others and on behalf of the opposite party no. 3, Shri S.K.Kalia, learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the cases reported in 1988(Supp) SCC 127 A.N.Shastry vs. State of Punjab and others, AIR 1975 Dehli 66 P.L.Lakhanpal vs. Ajit Nath Ray and AIR 1987 Kerala 140 K.J.Joseph vs. Hon'ble Justice Sukumaran and others. STATUTORY PROVISION
 
15- The Electricity Act, 2003 (in short the Act) contains the provision with regard to tariff and appointment of Chairman of the Commission. The State Commission is constituted under Section 82 of the Act. According to Section 82 of the Act, the State Commission shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of the property, both movable and immovable, and to contract and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued. Under sub-section (5) of Section 82 , the Chairperson and Members of the State Commission shall be appointed by the State Government on the recommendation of the selection committee referred to in section 85 . For convenience, Section 82 of the Act is reproduced as under:- 16-	The qualification for appointment of Chairperson has been given in Section 84 of the Act. According to Section 84 , the Chairperson and the Members of the State Commission shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing who have adequate knowledge of, and have shown capacity in, dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law or management. Apart from the knowledge of the subject, importance has been given to ability, integrity and experience of the person concern. For convenience, Section 84 of the Act is reproduced as under:- 17- Section 85 deals with the Constitution of Selection Committee to select members of State Commission, which includes a person, who has been a judge of the High Court as Chairperson of the Selection Committee, the Chief Secretary of the State and the Chairperson of the Authority or the Chairperson of the Central Commission. For convenience, Section 85 of the Act is reproduced as under:- So far as the constitution of committee is concerned, there appears to be no defect. The question cropped up whether the committee has discharged its function in accordance with the provision contained in Section 85 of the Act? 18-	The argument advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioner is two fold. Firstly that sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act casts duty upon the selection committee to satisfy itself that such persons so selected have no financial or other interest which is likely to affect prejudicially his function as such Chairperson or Member, but it has not been done. Secondly; while sending recommendation, the selection committee had delegated its power to the State Government to ensure the compliance under sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act. Whether such delegation could have been done? The post of Chairperson of the Commission is an important post. Section 62 of the Act deals with the determination of tariff in which it has been provided that Appropriate Commission shall determine the tariff in accordance with the provisions of the Act subject to fulfilment of necessary condition provided therein. Section 63 further provides that appropriate commission shall adopt the tariff and such tariff shall be determined through transparent process of bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government. Under Section 65 of the Act, the State Government has been empowered to extend subsidy to the consumer or class of consumer in the tariff determined by the Commission under Section 62 of the Act. Very important role has been assigned to the Commission under the Act. It shall be appropriate to reproduce sections 62 and 63 of the Act. Provided that in case of distribution of electricity in the same area by two or more distribution licensees, the Appropriate Commission may, for promoting competition among distribution licensees, fix only maximum ceiling of tariff for retail sale of electricity. (2)	The Appropriate Commission may require a licensee or a generating company to furnish separate details, as my be specified in respect of generation, transmission and distribution for determination of tariff. (3)	The Appropriate Commission shall not, while determining the tariff under this Act, show undue preference to any consumer of electricity but may differentiate according to the consumer's load factor, power factor, voltage, total consumption of electricity during any specified period or the time at which the supply is required or the geographical position of any area, the nature of supply and the purpose for which the supply is required. (4)	No tariff or part of any tariff may ordinarily be amended, more frequently than once in any financial year, except in respect of any changes expressly permitted under the terms of any fuel surcharge formula as may be specified. (5)	The Commission may require a licensee or a generating company to comply with such procedure as may be specified for calculating the expected revenues from the tariff and charges which he or it is permitted to recover. (6)	If any licensee or a generating company recovers a price or charge exceeding the tariff determined under this section, the excess amount shall be recoverable by the person who has paid such price or charge alongwith interest equivalent to the bank rate without prejudice to any other liability incurred by the licensee. Section 63- Determination of tariff by bidding process-Notwithstanding anything contained in section 62 , the Appropriate Commission shall adopt the tariff if such tariff has been determined through transparent process of bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Government." 19-	Though, it has been argued that the Commission consists of other members, but, ordinarily it may not be doubted that as a Chairperson of the Commission, a person selected in pursuance to Section 85 of the Act plays important role and may shift the balance while fixing tariff in case other members are more or less of weak stature or belong to one group or have political affiliation. Sub-section (5) of section 85 seems to be mandatory that is why the legislature used the word "before recommending any person for appointment as Chairperson, selection committee shall satisfy itself", means duty has been assigned to the Selection Committee and not the State Government. Hence, at the face of statutory provision as contained in sub-section (5) of Section 85 it seems to be mandatory. The selection committee could not have delegated the power to the State Government and the satisfaction with regard to finance and other interest of the selectee should have been considered and recorded by the committee itself. Sub-section (5) of section 85 should be read with sub-section (1) of Section 84 of the Act, which provides that a person so selected must be a person of ability, integrity and standing. Virtually, the selection committee had been bestowed with power to record its satisfaction with regard to ability, integrity, standing and involvement of financial and other interest in the State of U.P. which may prejudicially affect his or her function as Chairman of the Commission. It requires thorough investigation by the Selection Committee itself and not by the State Government. 20-	It is settled law that every word of statute should be given a meaning, by considering the statute as a whole. While interpreting a statutory provision the entire section or whole of the statute should be considered, as the case may be. According to Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes (12th edition page 36) any construction which may leave without affecting any part of the language of a statute should ordinarily be rejected. Relevant portion from to Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes (12th edition page 36) is reproduced as under:- 21-	In view of above the court should always avoid interpretation, which would leave any part of the provision to be interpreted without effect. While doing so every clause of a statute is to be construed with reference to the context and other clauses of the Act to make a consistent enactment of the whole statute. According to Maxwell (supra) statutory language should not be read in isolation but in its context. While referring a decision of House of Lord reported in AG v. HRH Prince Ernest Augustus, 1957 (1) All ER 49 (HL) in a famous treatise Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P.Singh the views of Lord Tucker has been discussed with approval as under (9th Edition page 34):- 22-	Thus the exposition ex visceribus actus is a long recognised rule of construction. Words in a statute often taken their meaning from the context of the statute as a whole. They are therefore not to be considered in isolation. Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in AIR 1992 SC 1, Mohan Kumar Singhania Vs. Union of India has proceeded to held as under:- 32-	In Words and Phrases, Second Edition of John B. Saunders, the word 'quo warranto' has been defined as under:- 33-	In Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol. 74, while dealing with the writ in the nature of quo warranto, the word quo warranto has been dealt with as under:- 34-	With regard to 'Form and Nature' of quo warranto, Corpus Juris Secundum deals with the subject, as under:- 35-	While considering the locus standi of a person to prefer a writ petition in the nature of quo warranto or habeas corpus, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a case reported in AIR 1966 SC 828 Gadde Venkateswara Rao vs. Government of Andhra Pradesh held that though ordinarily a writ petition is preferred for enforcement of statutory or fundamental right conferred by Part III of the Constitution of India by the person, who entitled to apply therein and whose rights are affected but when matter comes to habeas corpus or quo warranto, this rule has to be relaxed or modified. In the case of Gadde Vankateswara Rao (supra) the appellant President of Panchayat Samiti had preferred writ petition on the ground that he represents entire village in dealing with Block Development Committee, hence he has right to prefer the writ petition being representative of the committee. Their Lordships held that petition was maintainable, to quote relevant portion:- Has the appellant a right to file the petition out of which the present appeal has arisen ? The appellant is the resident of the Panchayat Samithi of Dharmajigudem. The villagers of Dharmajigudem formed a committee with the appellant as President for the purpose of collecting contributions from the villagers for setting up the Primary Health Centre.	The said committee collected Rs. 10,000/- and deposited the same with the Block Development Officer. The appellant represented the village in all its dealings with the Block Development Committee and the Panchayat Samithi in the matter of the location of the Primary Health Centre at Dharmajigudem. His conduct, the acquiescence on the part of the other members of the committee, and	 the treatment meted out to him by the authorities concerned support the inference	that he was authorized to act on behalf of the committee. The appellant was, therefore, a representative of the committee which was	in law the trustees of the amounts collected by it from the villagers for a public purpose. We have, therefore, no hesitation to hold that the appellant had the right to maintain the application under Art. 226 of the Constitution. This Court held in the decision cited supra that "ordinarily" the petitioner who seeks to file an application under Art.	226 of the Constitution should be one who has a personal or individual right in the subject-matter of the petition. A personal right need not be in respect of a proprietary interest : it can also relate to an interest of a trustee. That apart, in exceptional cases, as the expression "ordinarily" indicates, a person who has been prejudicially affected by an act or omission of an authority can file a writ even though he has no proprietary or even fiduciary interest in the subject-matter thereof. The appellant has certainly been prejudiced by the said order. The petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution at his instance is, therefore, maintainable. 36-	In the present case, the petitioner being General Secretary of the employees' Union seems to possess locus standi to prefer the writ petition. Otherwise also, a writ in the nature of quo warranto, as held by the Supreme Court, may be filed by any person challenging the right of authority to hold public office. 37-	In the case reported in (2006) 11 Supreme Court Cases 731 (1) Retd. Armed Forces Medical Association and others vs. Union of India and others , their Lordships of Supreme Court held that where appointment is contrary to the statutory rule, writ in the nature of quo warranto may be issued, to quote relevant portion:- 38-	With regard to locus in the same judgment (supra), their Lordships has relied upon earlier decision of the Supreme Court and held that where a person who comes to the Court with bona fides and public interest can have locus, to quote relevant portion:- 39-	In the case of Hanuman Foundries Ltd. (supra) their Lordships of Supreme Court held that the writ of quo warranto is a direct attack which is merely collateral. Their Lordships have relied upon Halsbury's Laws of England (supra) and held that the office must be a public office and the court must be satisfied that the person proceeded against, has been in actual possession of the office. The principle laid down in the case of University of Mysore (supra) and in the case of Ghulam Qadir (supra), the question with regard to locus has been dealt with by Hon'ble Supreme Court and it is held that the right under Article 226 of the Constitution of India may be enforced only by the aggrieved person ordinarily, but even then in appropriate cases, the court may permit by adopting liberal approach. 40-	In the case of Centre for Public Interest Litigation and another (supra) Supreme Court held that where the controversy relates to appointment on high post like Chief Secretary, then decision must be taken in transparent manner giving no scope for any grievance. In the case of Gujarat Kishan Mazdoor Panchayat and others (supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated the settled proposition of law that a writ of quo warranto may be issued in case appointment is contrary to statutory rule, to quote relevant portion:- 41-	In N. Kannadasan vs. Ajoy Khose (supra) with regard to writ of quo warranto and locus standi, Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated that integrity of the holder of the office on high post plays important role and this factor was required to be taken into consideration not only by the Chief Justice of the High Court but also by the State Government, to quote relevant portion:- 42-	In the case reported in Mahesh Chandra Gupta (supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that when the question cropped up with regard to appointment on the high post, then it shall be done strictly in accordance with the statutory provision and not otherwise keeping in view the eligibility criteria. 43-	In the case of A.N.Shashtri (supra) relied upon by the learned counsel for the opposite party no. 3, their Lordships of Supreme Court ruled that the High Court should be slow in a petition filed under the quo warranto unless there is a clear infringement of law. In the case of K.J.Joseph (supra) Supreme Court ruled that while exercising discretion, the court should consider all the circumstances of the case including the lapse of time and circumstances which would establish laches, acquiescence or estoppel and whether the public interest would be served. 44-	 Much reliance has been placed by Shri J.N. Mathur, learned Additional Advocate General on the case reported in AIR 2006 SC 3106, B. Srinivasa Reddy Vs. Karnataka Urban Water Supply & Drainage Board Employees' Association & others . In the case of B. Srinivasa Reddy (supra), there was dispute between the petitioner and the authority concerned, hence it was held that the action of petitioner suffers from malafide. 45-	In the present case, there appears to be no material on record, which may indicate that at any stage or any point of time, there has been a litigation between the petitioner and opposite party no. 3 or the petitioner was charged by opposite party no. 3. There is no material which may establish that before filing of writ petition, there has been some contradiction or tussle between the petitioner and opposite party no. 3. Hence, there appears to be no material on record which may establish the existence of any malice on the part of petitioner against opposite party no. 3. Being General Secretary of the employees' Union and having interest with regard to public cause or for welfare of department, the petitioner could have filed the writ petition (supra). 46-	It is settled law that the estoppel cannot override the law of land and the statutory provision vide AIR 1986 SC 180 Olga Tellis vs. Bombay Municipal Corporation, AIR 1970 SC 1354 Nookala Setharamaiah vs. Kotaish Naidu, AIR 1985 SC 1003 Banwari Lal vs. P.C. Aggarwal, 1984 ( 2) SCC 656 A.C. Jose vs. Sivan Pillai and 1996 ( 5) SCC 634 I.T.C. Ghadrachalam Paperboards vs. Mandal Revenue Officer . Accordingly, the principle of acquiescence or estoppel because of some delay or otherwise shall not be available to the respondents while defending the impugned appointment. 47-	In case an appointment is done in flagrant violation of statutory provision or selection committee had not discharged its statutory obligation, then throwing out the petition on this ground shall amount to perpetuate the illegality and continuance of a person in public office for which he was not duly selected in accordance with the statutory provision. 48-	In view of above, the petitioner has got locus to prefer the writ petition and this Court may look into the procedure adopted by the State Government and selection committee in appointing the opposite party no. 3 as Chairperson of the Commission within the ambit and scope of quo warranto. SELECTION COMMITTEE
 
49-	A plain reading of Section 84 (supra) reveals that the selection committee shall select a person for the post of Chairperson of the Commission, who should be a person of ability, integrity and standing with adequate knowledge of, and have shown capacity in, dealing with problems relating to engineering, finance, commerce, economics, law and management. Sub-section (5) of Section 85 further provides that the selection committee shall satisfy itself that such person does not have any financial or other interest which is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a Chairperson. Financial or other interest co-relates with the candidate's ability, integrity and standing and it is for the selection committee to look into it. 50-	In the case of Modern Cooperative Transport Society Ltd. (supra) the controversy relates to the appointment on the post of transport commissioner. Their Lordships of Supreme Court held that being overall incharge of the State Undertaking, he or she is accountable for his performance and the profit earned and loss suffered by it. Hence appointment of such person cannot be in breach of statutory provision, to quote relevant portion:- 51-	While considering the nature of 'financial interest', their Lordships held that it implies direct personal benefit of an economic nature and in the wider sense it may include any interest direct or indirect which a person has in relation to the finances of the undertaking, to quote relevant portion:- 52-	In view of the aforesaid broader proposition propounded by Hon'ble Supreme Court, the question whether the opposite party no. 3 could have been appointed on the post of Chairperson of the regulatory commission, that too when he was serving in the M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. for short period (41 days) and whether the opposite party no. 3 resigned from NTPC in pre-planned manner and then join in M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. to seek appointment in the Commission that too when the State Government relaxed the Rule/Guidelines fixing higher tariff rate for two units of M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. has not been considered by the selection committee in accordance to sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act. The other question arises whether the delegation of the power by the selection committee vitiates the selection? DELEGATION OF POWER BY THE SELECTION COMMITTEE 
 
53-	Delegatus non potest delegare is a maxim applied in its letter and spirit by the European Court since century and is guiding principle to check the validity of sub-delegation. It means that a delegate, who has received his authority from the principal (statute), is incompetent to sub-delegate his power to some other person or body. From this, it follows that unless sub-delegation is authorised by the statute itself, sub-delegation would be bad and any act done by the sub-delegation would be void:Allingham vs. Minister of Agriculture, (1948) 1 All E.R. 780. 54-	In the case reported in AIR 1961 Supreme Court 82 J.Y. Kondala Rao and others vs. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation and others , the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the power conferred on the transport authority could have been exercised only in the manner provided in the Act and not otherwise. 55-	In AIR 1967 Supreme Court 295 Barium Chemicals Ltd. and another vs. Company Law Board and others , a most celebrated judgment, Hon'ble Supreme Court held that a delegated authority cannot be re-delegated to other authority, to quote relevant portion:- 56-	Keeping in view the broader principle (supra) since power under sub-section (5) of Section 85 was conferred on the selection committee, it was for the selection committee to record a finding with regard to financial interest of opposite party no. 3 instead of referring the matter to the State Government. 57-	In a case reported in (1989) 3 Supreme Court 132 Marathwada University vs. Seshrao Balwant Rao Chavan , while considering the sub-delegation, their Lordships held that the executive council was not authorised to delegate its power in the absence of any statutory provision. Power to take disciplinary action was conferred on the Executive Council, which could not have been delegated to the Vice Chancellor that too without approval of the Chancellor. Under the statute, approval of the Chancellor was mandatory and in the absence of any approval, power could not have been delegated to the Vice Chancellor. 58-	In (1994) 5 Supreme Court Case 346 Sahni Silk Mills (P) Ltd. and another vs. Employees' State Insurance Corporation , while dealing with the case under the Employees State Insurance Corporation Act, 1948 and interpreting Section 94-A, Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed as under:- 59-	In (2004) 3 Supreme Court Cases 723 Promod K. Pankaj vs. State of Bihar and others, again the Hon'ble Supreme Court reiterated the aforesaid proposition of law and held that unless the statute provides to delegate power, it could not be delegated. 60-	 Keeping in view the aforesaid proposition of law and applying the maxim of Delegatus non potest delegare, it is beyond any cavil that the selection committee constituted under Section 85 of the Act, was not competent to delegate its power conferred on it under sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act to the State Government. Thus, the selection committee has not discharged its statutory obligation while making selection for the post of Chairperson of the Commission and shirk from its liability. Hence the selection does not seem to be in conformity with the statutory provision. Apart from above, it may also be noted that no material has been placed by the learned Additional Advocate General that even the State Government has applied its mind keeping in view the resolution of the selection committee and recorded a finding that the opposite party no. 3 has got no financial or other interest in the State of U.P., hence eligible for the said post. In the absence of any finding recorded keeping in view the letter and spirit of sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act, the appointment letter issued to the opposite party no. 3 seems to suffer from substantial illegality. FINANCIAL AND OTHER INTEREST 
 
61-	With regard to other interest of the opposite party no. 3, it is admitted fact on record that M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. was extended higher per unit rate with regard to electricity produced from Bara and Karchhna Project at Allahabad. Reason with regard to higher tariff rate is that the guidelines were modified by the government before the petitioner joined as Vice President in the M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. 62-	Respondent no. 3 while filing counter affidavit, in para 24 stated that he is not concern with the tariff fixed by the Commission with regard to Bara and Karchhana Project of the M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. since he was not in service. To quote relevant portion from para 24 of the counter affidavit. 63-	On the other hand, the State while filing counter affidavit, admitted that with regard to Karchhana Project of M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. and RFP involving deviation from statutory guidelines was approved on 28.8.2008 and 13.10.2008 respectively and financial bid was opened on 6.11.2008 i.e. much before the respondent no. 3 joined M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. on 17.11.2008. 64-	While filing rejoinder affidavit, the petitioner has invited attention to the fact that in initial bidding minimum rate for Karchhana Power House was Rs. 2.60 per unit quoted by M/s. Lanco, which was cancelled after second competitive bidding wherein the minimum rate of Rs. 2.59 per unit was quoted by M/s. Reliance Co. that too was cancelled and for the third time, minimum rate quoted by M/s. J.P. Associates Ltd. of Rs. 2.97 was accepted. It is further stated that lower tariff rate has been ignored for the M/s. J.P. Associates Ltd. and the levelized tariff of Rs. 3.02/KWH for Bara and Rs. 2.97/KWH for Karchhana Project was accepted. It was the respondent no. 3 to approve vide order dated 27.8.2010 with regard to higher tariff rate. It shall be appropriate to reproduce the relevant portion from the rejoinder affidavit contained in Para 15 (viii):- 65-	While filing written argument, learned counsel for the petitioner has invited attention to subsequent order passed in favour of J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. but has not filed it with the affidavit. We are not inclined to take into account the facts which are not placed on record. However, on the basis of evidence on record, prima facie, it may not be ruled out that while holding the post of Chairperson, opposite party no. 3 might have some interest in favour of two projects of J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. 66-	We are not recording any finding but things are clear that tariff fixed with regard to these two projects was on higher side since averment contained in the rejoinder affidavit has not been disputed. The State also admits that the guidelines/rules were relaxed with regard to project of M/s J.P. Power Ventures Ltd. 67-	It has been vehemently emphasized by the petitioner's counsel that higher tariff rate suffers from extraneous reasons and the matter may be referred for investigation to CBI, but we are not inclined to interfere in the present case, being a petition for quo warranto. Issue is left open for adjudication by the appropriate Forum. 68-	Learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently argued that the respondent no. 3 is not qualified for the post in question. On the other hand, Shri S.K.Kalia, learned senior counsel for the respondent no. 3 submits that he is well qualified for the post in question and has rightly been selected. So far as the qualification of respondent no. 3 for the post in question is concerned, it is not necessary to consider the same since the writ petition deserves to be allowed on account of non compliance of statutory provision and is left open. 69-	All the aforesaid facts and circumstances should have been taken into account and the selection committee should have applied its mind in pursuance to the provision contained in sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act. It shall be always obligatory on the part of selection committee to record a finding keeping in view the provision contained in sub-section (1) of Section 84 read with sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the Act. FINDING 
 
70-	(i) Sub-section (5) of Section 85 of the U.P. Electricity Act is mandatory. It is for the selection committee to record a finding keeping in view the facts and circumstances of each case in pursuance to the provision contained in sub-section(5) of Section 85 of the Act. (ii)	In the absence of any provision contained in the Act, it was not open for the selection committee to delegate its power to the State Government to look into the matter keeping in view the provision contained in sub-section (5) of section 85 of the Act. There could not have been a conditional selection. (iii)	Sub-section (5) of Section 85 and sub-section (1) of Section 84 of the Act are inter-related issues and deal with the honesty, integrity, standing, financial and other interest of the person interviewed for the post of Chairperson or Members of the State Regulatory Commission. Non-application of mind renders the selection void and illegal. (iv)	Since the appointment was done in violation of statutory provision, power was delegated without any authority and appointment being illegal and void, the writ petition could not be thrown out only because of some delay. A person appointed in contravention of the statutory provision ignoring the mandatory duty cannot be permitted to hold an office as it shall amount to perpetuation of illegality. (v)	The defence of estoppel and acquiescence shall not be available against the statutory provision. 71-	In view of above, the writ petition deserves to be allowed. The respondent no. 3, for the reasons and finding recorded (supra), is not entitled to continue on the post of Chairman, State Electricity Regulatory Commission, Uttar Pradesh and liable to be removed with immediate effect. 72-	Accordingly, the writ petition is allowed. A writ in the nature of quo warranto is issued restraining the respondent no. 3 to continue on the post of Chairman, State Electricity Regulatory Commission, Uttar Pradesh and removed forthwith. The appointment of respondent no. 3 is also declared illegal, void and quashed, declaring vacancy in the office of Chairperson, State Electricity Regulatory Commission. The State of Uttar Pradesh may hold fresh selection with prior permission of Election Commission in accordance to Rules or on its own motion after declaration of result of general election in accordance with the provision contained in the Act and relevant Rules. The writ petition is allowed accordingly. No order as to costs.