1. As per order dated 28.09.2020, this Tribunal had Suo Motu

 registered a case on the basis of the news paper report

 published in "The New Sunday Express Newspaper Edition

 dated: 20.07.2020 under the captions "Ranipet residents'

 health at risk due to pollution; Chromium waste killing

 agriculture in Ranipet, poses long-term health risks". 2. This Tribunal also relied on the decision reported in 'Vellore

 Citizens' case ( Welfare Forum Vs Union of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) where certain directions had been issued to

 the regulating authorities even to close down the industries

 which were responsible for causing pollution till they make

 necessary pollution control mechanism to avoid such pollution

 to the water bodies. 3. This Tribunal also noticed from the newspaper report that

 large scale Chromium bearing waste is being dumped in the

 areas which affects the health of the people. It is scientifically

 proven factor that Chromium deposit is carcinogenic in nature

 which is a cause for causing cancer among the public. 3 4. According to the newspaper report, the Tamil Nadu Chromate

 Chemicals Limited (TCCL) in S IPC OT Industrial Estate, Vellore

 District, has to deal with this issue, but no proper action has

 been taken by them. 5. An action plan for abatement of pollution in critically polluted

 area/S IPC OT Industrial Complex, Ranipet, Tamil Nadu

 prepared by the Tamil Nadu Government has not been

 implemented so far. So under such circumstances in order to

 ascertain the present status and also the remedial measures

 to be taken by the regulating authorities to abate the possible

 pollution and health hazard that is likely to be caused on

 account of such unauthorised act by the alleged violators, we

 have appointed a joint committee and directed the joint

 committee to submit the report to this Tribunal and posted

 the case to 25.11.2020. On 25.11.2020, the matter was

 adjourned to 07.01.2021 and on 07.01.2021the matter was

 adjourned to today by successive notifications. 6. When the matter came up for hearing today through Video

 Conference, Sri. Dr. V. R. Thirunarayanan represented

 respondents 3 to 7, 9 & 10, Sri. Thiruvavukarasu represented

 2nd respondent and Sri. Kasirajan through M/s. SM. Kothai 4 Muthu Meenal represented 8th respondent. 7. We have received a status report on behalf of the Central

 Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) which reads as follows:- The reason for the same is attributed to obstruction to groundwater flow
 influenced by naturally occurring geological fault. 11. It is submitted that the off-site area with chromium contamination in
 groundwater are residential areas, comprising of open spaces, ponds
 along with limited agricultural activity. 12. It is submitted that the Human Health Risk Assessment (HHRA) was
 carried out as part of the study to derive site specific remediation target
 levels (SSTLs) for remediation. 13. It is submitted that the contaminated area at Ranipet and the adjoining
 areas of TCCL site was inspected by Technical Expert Committee
 (hereinafter referred to as TEC) constituted by CPC B along with the
 representatives of CPC B, TNPCB and CPC B's Consultant on
 13.03.2017. Subsequently, in the 9th meeting of the TEC had reviewed
 the technologies for remediation of said contaminated area. Further,
 TEC in its 13th meeting held on 02.07.2018 recommended the
 technologies for remediation of said contaminated area had been
 accepted by Project Steering Committee (PSC) under chairmanship of
 Chairman, CPC B. 14. It is submitted that the estimated cost of remediation of TCCL contaminated
 site is Rs. 206 crore and apart from this, a groundwater remediation system
 is required to be operated for about 10 - 15 years at annual operating cost of
 about Rs. 10 - 15 crore. The remediation activity may comprise of the
 following; a. Excavation, treatment and disposal of contaminated soil and waste in
 an on-site secured landfill at about Rs. 194 crore; 8 b. Groundwater remediation by installing abstraction system (pump and
 treat system) along with a common water treatment plant for chromium
 contaminated water at an estimated cost of Rs. 12 crore; 15. It is submitted that CPC B vide letter dated 11.01.2019 was forwarded the final
 DPR to TNPCB with request to taken-up remediation works. A template of bid
 document was also forwarded to State Government and TNPCB vide CPC B letter
 dated 13.02.2019 for execution of remediation works as per DPR prepared under
 NCEF project (a copy of said letter is annexed at Annexure-II). 16. It is submitted that since NCEF Project of MoEF&CC has been discontinued by
 Government of India, funds for execution of remediation works (as per the DPR)
 may be arranged by Government of Tamil Nadu/TNPCB. Since the TCCL was
 operated by State government department and also by few private entities, funds
 for remediation may be apportioned to both TN State as well as the other
 responsible parties, who operated the plant. 17. It is submitted that outlines of the findings of the site investigation, human health
 risk assessment study carried out under NCEF project including technology
 screening, the approach for remediation of contaminated soil, sediment, surface
 water & groundwater both at on-site and off-site of TCCL area at Ranipet, Tamil
 Nadu is annexed at Annexure-III. PRAYER

 It is humbly prayed before this Hon'ble Tribunal in the interest of Justice that this
 Hon'ble Tribunal may be pleased to pass an order to; 1) Direct government of TN State to take-up remediation of TCCL
 contaminated area being the responsible party who operated the plant.
 The remediation work may be executed as per the DPR prepared by CPC B. 2) The cost of remediation works may be borne by TN State who may also
 recover a portion of the cost from other responsible parties. 3) Remediation work may be executed as per authorization and supervision
 of TNPCB. TNPCB may also engage any competent consultant to monitor
 and verify the works. 4) State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) may be constituted by TNPCB to
 monitor and supervise the remediation works. 9 5) CPC B may provide technical assistance and also verify the remediation
 works as and when required. 6) The Committee constituted by Hon'ble NGT in its Suo-Moto may be granted
 six months time to inspect individual units which comprises of 369 units
 and file their report.(Reference to para 12 of the order dated 28.9.2020)

 Pass any such and further order, as this Hon'ble Tribunal may deem fit
 and proper in the facts and circumstances of the case. 8. It is quite unfortunate that Central Pollution Control Board

 ( CPC B) who has been made a member of the committee, of

 conducting the inspection regarding the present status on the

 basis news paper report, to submit the remedial measures and

 also the progress of the programme that has been earlier started

 for this purpose. If the Central Government scheme has been

 withdrawn then, what is the nature of steps taken by the State

 Government and the regulating authorises to remedy the

 situation. The directions mentioned in the status report will not

 be sufficient for the purpose of effective disposal of the case. It

 is for them to prepare an action plan on the basis of the findings

 including the health study with they are expected to conduct

 including the contamination of water, the source of

 contamination the remedial measures to be taken to resolve the

 issue permanently and also indicate the temporary measures

 which will have to be taken for the purpose of mitigating the 10 situation till permanent solution is implemented etc. 9. They are also expected to calculate the cost required for

 restoration and environmental compensation to be recovered

 from the persons who are responsible for causing such disaster. 10. The State Government is also expected to come with a proper

 action plan as it is not a simple issue which can be solved at the

 regulators level. A policy decision will have to be taken by the

 Government as to how such larger public interest disaster needs

 to be managed and to co-ordinate with concerned departments

 which are all required for the purpose of implementation of the

 policy, so as to achieve the goal which was intended by such

 scheme or policy that has been taken and also the

 implementation should be monitored by an Apex level

 responsible officer, so as to give necessary directions and

 guidelines as to how this will have to be implemented in its letter

 and its spirit, so as to protect the life of the people in that area

 especially when such serious things have been noticed by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizens' case ( Welfare Forum Vs

 Union of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) as mentioned above. 11. When this was pointed out the counsel appearing for the

 Central Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) submitted that they will 11 take into account the directions given by the Tribunal in its

 letter and its spirit and come with a proper and effective report

 so as to resolve the issue. They wanted six months time for

 filing the status report. But three months have already lapsed

 after appointing the committee, but not even an interim report

 has been filed for this purpose. So under such circumstances we

 feel that three more months' time can be given to the committee

 to proceed with the work and file a report. If they are not able to

 file the final report, at least, they have to file an interim report

 regarding the nature of work done by them and the nature of

 studies conducted by them etc., 12. In the mean time, the respective State Government

 Departments are also directed to file their independent written

 response to the allegations made and the steps taken from their

 side for the purpose of mitigating the issue especially in view of

 the directions given by Hon'ble Apex Court in Vellore Citizens'

 case (Welfare Forum Vs Union of India and others (1996) 5 SCC 647) as mentioned above. 13. They are also expected to mention in their written response as

 to whether the steps taken by them are effective and whether

 any improvement has caused in controlling the pollution and 12 degradation caused on account of the pollution which was found

 in the above said case. 14. They are directed to submit the report as well as the written

 responses as directed on or before 19.04.2021 by e-filing in the

 form of searchable PDF/OCR Support PDF and not in the form

 of Image PDF along with necessary hard copies to be produced

 as per rules. 15. The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the

 members of the committee and also to the official respondents

 including the Chief Secretary, State of Tamil Nadu for their

 information and compliance of the direction by e-mail

 immediately. 16. For appearance of parties and for filing of their responses and

 also for consideration of report, post on 19.04.2021. ....................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 .................................E.M.
 (Shri. Saibal Dasgupta) O.A. No.186/2020 03rd February, 2021, Sr. 13