OPG Securities Pvt. Ltd. First Floor, First Floor, 4/10,
 Asaf Ali Road,
 New Delhi- 110 002 2. Mr. Sanjay Gupta 3. Ms. Sangeeta Gupta 4. Mr. Om Prakash Gupta
 First Floor, 4/10,
 Asaf Ali Road,
 New Delhi- 110 002 ...Appellants

Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India,
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G-Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai- 400 051 ...Respondent

Mr. Ravichandra S. Hegde, Advocate with Ms. Mitravinda
Chunduru and Mr. Shonan Bangera, Advocates i/b RHP
Partners for the Appellants. Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior Advocate with Mr. Manish
Chhangani, Ms. Samreen Fatima, Mr. Sumit Yadav and
Mr. Abhay Chauhan, Advocates i/b The Law Point for the
Respondent - SEBI. CORAM: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Ms. Meera Swarup, Technical Member

Per: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. Two separate orders have been passed by the Adjudicating

Officer ("AO" for convenience) of the Securities and Exchange 4 Board of India ("SEBI" for convenience) imposing penalties

upon the appellants. By an order dated February 10, 2021 the

AO has imposed a penalty on National Stock Exchange of India

Limited ("NSE" for convenience), Mr. Ravi Narain and

Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna. Against this order three appeals have

been filed namely Appeal No. 166 of 2021 by NSE, Appeal No.

167 of 2021 by Mr. Ravi Narain, Appeal No. 168 of 2021 by

Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna. The AO has passed another order

dated February 11, 2021 imposing a penalty upon OPG

Securities Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. against which Appeal No. 369 of

2021 has been filed. Since the issue is common, all the appeal

are being taken up together. 2. The background leading to the filing of the present appeal

has been lucidly illustrated in the appeals filed by NSE and

others in Appeal No. 333 of 2019 and other connected appeals

against the order of the Whole Time Member ("WTM" for

convenience) which was decided by this Tribunal on January

23, 2023 and is therefore not being repeated. 3. However, in brief, with regard to the colocation scam, a

show cause notice dated 22.05.2017 was issued by the WTM 5 against 15 noticees. The show cause notice mainly contained

the allegations regarding: 4. (i). the issue of preferential access given to certain TMs

while disseminating the TBT data feed; (ii) the issue of access

to Non-ISPs for laying of Dark fiber within the exchange

premises; (iii) non-cooperation by NSE and its Officers; (iv) not

acting on complaints forwarded to the exchange; (v) NSE failed

to ensure trading in a transparent, fair and open manner and,

consequently, failed to fulfil the objects envisaged in its MoA

and the conditions of recognition. 5. Supplementary show cause notice was issued on July 31,

2018 and, in this way, notices initially issued to 15 noticees

increased to 17 noticees. 6. Summary of allegations contained in 2017 show cause

notice, 2018 show cause notice and supplementary show cause

notice are as under: d. NSE allegedly did not have defined policies and

 procedures with regard to Secondary Server access, and

 the guidelines were not issued as a circular. By selectively

 reprimanding some brokers connecting to the Secondary

 Servers (and not others), and allowing some brokers to

 continue connecting regularly to the Secondary Servers,

 NSE allegedly showed differential treatment to brokers;

e. NSE allegedly failed to maintain backups or records for: f. There were allegedly no policies and procedures for

 allocation/mapping of the IPs of members to the

 dissemination servers, nor was there a Standard Operating

 Procedure ("SOP") to deal with requests for change in IP

 mapping to a particular server. Such requests were left to

 the discretion of the NSE's Project Support and

 Management ("PSM") Team, which has shown

 differential treatment / responses to members for such

 requests; g. The Noticee has allegedly violated the provisions of

 Section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation), Act

 1956 ("SCRA"), by failing to fulfil its main object of

 ensuring fair dealing; h. The Noticee has allegedly failed to comply with

 Regulation 48 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation)

 (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 8 Regulations, 2012 ("SECC Regulations") in view of its

 alleged failure to cooperate with SEBI, the SEBI

 External Committee appointed by SEBI, and the forensic

 auditor appointed by the Noticee on SEBI's direction,

 and to provide requisite information as sought by SEBI;

 and

 i. The Noticee has allegedly failed to comply with

 Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations by giving

 preferential access to certain trading members. 7. In addition to the above, 2018 show cause notice alleged: d. It was alleged that OPG was constantly logging in across

 servers and OPG was aware of the weakness of the system

 architecture and the advantage of having first access in

 terms of trade. Further, OPG had designed the software in

 such a way that OPG could connect first and gain

 advantage. e. It was also alleged that by assigning multiple IPs to OPG

 to a single Port by NSE allowed crowding by OPG

 enabling OPG to establish first, second, third and even

 fourth connection to the server and thereby in this regard

 OPG gained advantage over other stock brokers and,

 therefore, alleged NSE has acted in a fraudulent manner 10 and had indulged in fraud and unfair trade practices in the

 securities market. f. It was further alleged that the manner in which OPG

 gained preferential access day after day on select servers

 indicate complete laxity and dereliction of duty on the part

 of NSE officials and employees and failed to prevent

 manipulation of the system and failed to ensure equal, fair

 and transparent access. It was alleged that by not taking

 preventive as well as curative measures proactively

 Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna facilitated

 fraud and manipulation by OPG. 8. The supplementary show cause notice further alleged: 9. Based on the above, the WTM framed the following

issues: 10. Whether TCP-IP architecture for TBT data feed provided

a fair and equitable access to all TM. This issue has been further

sub-divided into: 11. The WTM after considering the material evidence on

record found that most of the charges levelled against the 12 appellants were proved. The WTM accordingly by its order

dated April 30, 2019 discharged 14 of 17 noticees and issued

directions against three noticees, namely, NSE, Mr. Ravi Narain

and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna as under:- for short). b. NSE is prohibited from accessing the securities

 market directly or indirectly for a period of 6

 months from the date of the impugned order.

 c. NSE to carry out System Audit at frequent

 intervals, after taking into consideration the

 changes in the technology. d. NSE to reconstitute its Standing Committee on
 Technology at regular intervals. e. NSE to frame a clear policy on administering
 whistle blower complaints. f. Mr. Ravi Narain, noticee no.2 to disgorge 25%

of the salary drawn for Financial Years 2010-11

to 2012-13 to the IPEF. g. Mr. Ravi Narain shall not associate with any

listed company or a Market Infrastructure

Institution or any other market intermediary for a

period of five years. h. Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna, noticee no.3 to

disgorge 25% of the salary for Financial Year

2013-14. i. Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna shall not associate with

any listed company or a Market Infrastructure

Institution or any other market intermediary for a

period of five years. j. NSE shall initiate an enquiry under its

Employees Regulations against Mr. Mahesh

Soparkar (Noticee No. 10) and Mr. Deviprasad

Singh (Noticee No. 11) with respect to the findings

contained in paragraph 8.4.7.6 of the impugned

order and submit a report within 6 months.

k. Mr. Anand Subramanian (noticee no.4), Mr.

Ravi Apte (noticee no.8), Mr. Umesh Jain (noticee

no.9), Mr. R. Nandakumar (noticee no.5), Mr. 14 Mayur Sindhwad (noticee no.6), Mr. Ravi

 Varanasi (noticee no.7), Mr. Sankarson Banerjee

 (noticee no.12), Mr. G. Shenoy (noticee no.13),

 Mr. Suprabhat Lala (noticee no.14), Mr.

 Nagendra Kumar SRVS (noticee no.15), Mr. N.

 Murlidaran (noticee no.16) and Mr. Jagdish Joshi

 (noticee no.17) are discharged. 12. In addition to the above, the WTM has passed another

order dated 30th April, 2019 prohibiting OPG Securities Pvt.

Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "OPG") and other noticees from

accessing the securities market for a period of five years and

restraining OPG from taking any new clients for a period of one

year. The WTM further directed OPG and its Directors to

disgorge jointly and severally a sum of Rs.15.57 crores

alongwith interest at the rate of 12% p.a. w.e.f. 7th April, 2014

onwards. Against the order of 30th April, 2019, OPG has filed

Appeal no.184 of 2019. 13. Against the aforesaid two orders of the WTM five appeals

were filed which were heard and decided together by a common

order of this Tribunal dated January 23, 2023. This Tribunal

found that most of the charges were not proved and accordingly

allowed the appeals in part by issuing the following directions:- 15 14. On the same issue and on the same cause of action, the

AO has issued a show cause notice dated January 04, 2019

against NSE, Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna and

another show cause notice dated January 28, 2019 was issued

against OPG Securities Pvt. Ltd. & Ors. The AO, after

considering the material evidence on record passed the

impugned order dated February 10, 2021 against NSE, Mr. Ravi

Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna and another order dated

February 11, 2021 against OPG Securities Pvt. Ltd. and Ors.

imposing penalties. 15. We have heard Shri Somasekhar Sundaresan, the learned

counsel, Shri P. N. Modi, the learned senior counsel,

Shri Piyush Raheja, the learned counsel and Shri Ravichandra S.

Hegde, the learned counsel for the appellants and Shri Rafique

Dada, the learned senior counsel for the respondent. 16. The learned counsel for the appellants contended that the

findings given by the AO is virtually the same as given by the

WTM in its order which findings have been dealt with in detail

by this Tribunal in its judgement dated January 23, 2023. It was

urged, that the controversy involved in the present appeals is

squarely covered by the decision of this Tribunal dated January

23, 2023 and, therefore, the appeals could be decided on the

basis of the findings given by this Tribunal in its order of

January 23, 2023. In this regard, the learned senior counsel Shri

Dada, fairly conceded that the findings given by the AO in the

impugned orders is virtually the same as given by the WTM in

its orders and that the decision of this Tribunal squarely covers

the issue. 17. It was urged that two findings against the NSE have been

upheld by this Tribunal, namely, the finding relating to absence

of randomizer and the finding relating to IP allocation and load 19 balancer and also the finding that there was no defined policy

and procedure regarding access to secondary server. 18. It was urged, by the learned counsel for NSE that this

Tribunal had imposed a penalty of Rs. 100 crores while

considering the violations committed by the NSE and, therefore,

contended that the penalty imposed by this Tribunal would

cover the violation found by the AO. It was urged, that the

penalty of Rs. 1 crore imposed by the AO should be set aside in

view of the imposition of penalty by this Tribunal in its order of

January 23, 2023. 19. On the other hand, it was urged by the learned senior

counsel for the respondent that the proceedings initiated by the

WTM under Chapter IV of the SEBI Act whereas the AO

initiated proceedings for violation committed by the appellants

under VI-A of the SEBI Act. Since two separate proceedings

were validly initiated the penalty imposed was appropriate. 20. Having considered the submissions made by the learned

counsel for the parties, we find that this Tribunal while setting

aside the disgorgement held:- 21. The directions issued by the WTM under Section 11 & 11B was set aside by this Tribunal but the Tribunal held that he 21 NSE cannot go scot-free and taking into the factors

contemplated under Section 15J which is under Chapter VI-A of

the SEBI Act and in exercise of the powers conferred upon this

Tribunal under Rules 21 of the Securities Appellate Tribunal

(Procedure) Rules, 2000, the Tribunal imposed a penalty of

Rs. 100 crores upon the appellant NSE for the lapse committed

by them. 22. In our opinion, two penalties for the same violation cannot

be imposed. Since we had already imposed a penalty of Rs. 100

crores upon NSE in our order dated January 23, 2023 which in

our opinion is more than sufficient. The impugned order of the

AO imposing a penalty of Rs. 1 crore against the appellant,

thus, cannot be sustained and is quashed. The appeal of NSE is

allowed. 23. Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna have been

penalized Rs. 25 lakhs each by the AO. For the same violations

the WTM had directed Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

Ramkrishna to disgorge 25% of their salary and were also

restrained from being associated with any listed company or a

market infrastructure institution or any other market

intermediary for a period of five years. 22 24. This Tribunal in its order of January 23, 2023 had set aside

the directions for disgorgement and reduced the debarment from

five years to the period undergone. This Tribunal noted in

paragraph nos. 209, 210 and 211as under:- 25. This Tribunal also held:- 26. In view of the aforesaid finding Mr. Ravi Narain and

Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna cannot abdicate their responsibility for

the lapse and while functions may be delegated, duty of care,

due diligence could not be abdicated and, consequently, the

direction of this Tribunal reducing the period of debarment was

passed. 27. For the same lapse a penalty of Rs. 25 lakhs has been

imposed by the AO. We find that one of the directions given by

the WTM was that an enquiry against the employees to whom

the powers were delegated should be initiated. We also find

that the AO initiated separate proceedings against the

employees of NSE who were computer/technical experts,

namely, the Chief Technical Officers Mr. Ravi Apte and

Mr. Umesh Jain and head of the Project Support and

Management Team ("PSMT"), namely, Mr. Mahesh Soparkar

and Mr. Deviprasad Singh, who were managing the colocation 28 operations. The AO by a separate order dated August 29, 2019

did not impose any penalty against the employees. 28. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the view that for the

aforesaid lapse committed by Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

Ramkrishna a limited debarment order had been passed by this

Tribunal. We find that no further directions are required to be

issued and the imposition of penalty in the circumstances is

unwarranted. The impugned order in so far as it relates to the

appellants Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna is set

aside. The appeals are allowed. 29. The Charge levelled against OPG Securities Pvt. Ltd. and

Ors. by the WTM is as under:- 30. Based on the aforesaid charges, only four issues were

framed namely: 31. The WTM exonerated OPG and its Directors on issue

nos.1 and 2 and found OPG and its Directors guilty of unfair

access and advantage by consistently logging into the secondary

POP servers, and on that basis, made unfair gain of Rs.15.57

crores. 32. The WTM accordingly prohibited OPG from accessing the

securities market and from buying, selling or otherwise dealing

in securities for a period of five years. The Directors were also

restrained from accessing the securities market for a period of

five years. Further, OPG in its capacity as a stock broker was

directed not to take any new clients for a period of one year and

further directed OPG and its Directors to disgorge an amount of

₹15.57 crores along with interest at the rate of 12% per annum

from April 7, 2014 onwards, till the date of payment." 33. This Tribunal in paragraph 263 held as under:- 34. In the operative portion this Tribunal affirmed the

violations committed by OPG but set aside the directions to

disgorge an amount of Rs.15.57 crores and remitted the matter

to the WTM to decide the quantum of disgorgement afresh in

the light of the observation made by this Tribunal in its order.

The AO imposed a penalty of Rs. 5.2 crores after finding that

the appellant had committed the violations levelled against it

and its Directors. Since, we have already upheld the violations

as given in the WTM's order, we also affirm the violations

committed by the OPG as found in the AO's order. However,

the AO while calculating the penalty and while considering the

factors provided under Section 15J also took into consideration

the direction of WTM to disgorge an amount of Rs. 15.57

crores. Considering the fact that the penalty imposed by the AO

takes into consideration the computation of unlawful gains as

arrived by the WTM in its order which portion of the order has

been set aside by this Tribunal, we are of the opinion, that the

AO is required to reconsider the quantum of penalty. We

accordingly, affirm the violation committed by OPG and its

Directors but set aside the order in so far as it relates to the

quantum of penalty and remit the matter to the AO to decide the

quantum of penalty afresh. 35. In view of the aforesaid Appeal No. 166 of 2021, Appeal

No. 167 of 2021 and 168 of 2021 are allowed and Appeal No.

369 of 2021 is partly allowed. In the circumstances of the case,

parties shall bear their own costs. The misc. application is

disposed of accordingly. 36. This order will be digitally signed by the Private Secretary

on behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to

act on the digitally signed copy of this order. Certified copy of

this order is also available from the Registry on payment of

usual charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 RAJALAKS Digitally signed
 Technical Member
 by
 HMI RAJALAKSHMI
12.07.2023
PK HARISH HARISH NAIR
 Date: 2023.07.13
 NAIR 14:29:18 +05'30'