Dated this the 3rd day of February, 2025

The petitioner herein is the defacto complainant in Crime

No.74/2024 of Pazhayannur Police Station. The offences

alleged are under Sections 450, 376 and 376(2)(n) of the

Penal Code. Petitioner is aggrieved by Annexure-A4 Order,

as per which, pre-arrest bail was granted to the 2 nd

respondent/accused, a Police Officer. 2. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, learned

counsel for the 2nd respondent and also the learned Public

Prosecutor for the 1st respondent/State. Perused the

records. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner invited the

attention of this Court to the observations contained in

paragraph no.7 of Annexure-A4 Order, which chastised the

petitioner as a person having a tendency to attract men to

honey trap. Learned counsel would argue that the same is

not based on any material on record. Only for the reason Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..3.. 2025:KER:8440

that the respondent/accused had furnished the names of the

alleged victims of the honey trap, the Sessions Judge

harbored a view that there is some element of truth in the

allegation that those persons are victims of honey trap

laid by the petitioner/defacto complainant. On such

premise, the learned Sessions Judge has gone to the extent

of holding against the credibility of the allegations made

by the defacto complainant, while choosing to grant

pre-arrest bail to the 2nd respondent herein. Learned

counsel then invited the attention of this Court to

paragraph no.9 of Annexure-A4, wherein there is a clear and

categorical observation by the learned Sessions Judge that

an element of consensual sex is explicit in the given

facts. According to the learned counsel, both these

observations are likely to prejudice the interests of the

petitioner/defacto complainant in the trial. That apart,

learned counsel also canvassed that Annexure-A4 Order,

which granted pre-arrest bail to the 2nd respondent, is not

supported by any valid ground/reason. The same was granted,

ignoring the objection of the Public Prosecutor to the Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..4.. 2025:KER:8440

effect that the 2nd respondent/accused, being a member of

the police force, will influence the witnesses and

interfere with the investigation. According to the learned

counsel, Annexure-A4 Order, as a whole, is liable to be set

aside. 4. The above submissions made by the learned counsel for

the petitioner was fully supported by the learned Public

Prosecutor. Learned Public Prosecutor would reiterate that

the 2nd respondent is a police officer and that the

possibility of interfering with the investigation cannot be

ruled out. Learned Public Prosecutor would submit that only

based on a submission made by the petitioner as regards the

names of certain victims, the trial court, quite

erroneously, arrived at a conclusion that the credibility

of the allegations made by the defacto complainant is under

a cloud. 5. Per contra, the above submissions were seriously

opposed by the learned counsel for the 2nd Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..5.. 2025:KER:8440

respondent/accused. According to the learned counsel,

pre-arrest bail was granted taking into account the

relevant considerations. Learned counsel would also submit

that Annexure-A3 chats would make it clear that the

petitioner is a person who experiments honey traps, so as

to victimize innocent persons. Learned counsel also invited

the attention of this Court to the F.I.S., to contend that

a perusal of the same would amplify the consensual nature

of the relationship between the petitioner and the

accused/2nd respondent. Thus, according to the learned

counsel, there is no room for any interference, whatsoever,

to Annexure-A4 Order. At best, the observations against the

petitioner/defacto complainant can be expunged, is the

submission made. 6. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the

respective parties, this Court finds that Annexure-A4 Order

cannot be sustained. Primarily, this Court finds that it is

beyond the powers and propriety of the learned Sessions

Judge to arrive at a finding in paragraph no.7 that the Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..6.. 2025:KER:8440

credibility of the allegations made by the defacto

complainant is under a cloud. That part of the order, which

speaks about an element of truth on the allegation that the

petitioner has a tendency to attract men to honey trap, is

also improper and illegal. As rightly pointed out by the

learned Public Prosecutor and the counsel for the

petitioner, there was no material before the trial court to

arrive at such a conclusion. At any rate, no such material

is referred to in Annexure-A4 Order to find that the

petitioner is a person who attracts men to honey traps

arranged by her. Secondly, this Court finds that the

finding contained in paragraph no.9 that an element of

consensual sex is explicit in the given facts is also

completely beyond the propriety and authority of the

learned Sessions Judge. It is cardinal that, while

disposing bail applications, the court shall not comment on

the ultimate merits of the matter, which will prejudice one

among the parties before the trial court. Therefore, a

finding to the effect that there is an element of

consensual sex, as explicit from the facts, is completely Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..7.. 2025:KER:8440

unwarranted and illegal. That apart, the question as to

whether the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is

required or not is not seen considered in Annexure-A4

Order. Rather, the finding in paragraph no.9 is to the

effect that considering the nature of the offence and

investigation to be completed, custodial interrogation and

the presence of the petitioner is found to be inevitable.

If that be so, the grant of pre-arrest bail does not stand

to reason. 7. In the circumstances, this Court finds no tangible

reasons supporting the grant of pre-arrest bail.

Annexure-A4 Order will therefore stand set aside. There

will be a direction to the learned Sessions Judge to

reconsider the matter afresh, after hearing all the

parties. Here, this Court cautions that the observations

made against the defacto complainant were in her absence,

which makes the findings all the more illegal.

I, therefore, direct the learned Sessions Judge to consider

and pass orders afresh in Crl.M.C.No.278/2024, after taking Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..8.. 2025:KER:8440

into account all the contentions of the petitioner/defacto

complainant, the 2nd respondent/accused and also the learned

Public Prosecutor. 8. It is clarified that this Court has not made any

opinion as regards the merits of the matter. This Court

only finds that the reasons stated in Annexure-A4 Order is

not sufficient to grant a pre-arrest bail. If there exists

sufficient reason for the grant of pre-arrest bail, this

Order will not stand in the way of learned Sessions Judge

in doing so. Until the matter is re-heard and disposed of

by the learned Sessions Judge, there shall be an interim

order not to arrest the petitioner. Sd/- C. JAYACHANDRAN
 JUDGE
TR Crl.M.C.No. 3959 of 2024 ..9.. 2025:KER:8440 APPENDIX OF CRL.MC 3959/2024 PETITIONER ANNEXURES

Annexure A1 THE TRUE COPY OF THE FIR & FIS IN CRIME
 74/2024 OF THE PAZHAYANNUR POLICE
 STATION DATED 09.02.2024

Annexure A2 THE CERTIFIED COPY OF THE BAIL
 APPLICATION DATED 15.02.2024

Annexure A3 THE CERTIFIED COPY OF THE DOCUMENTS
 ALONG WITH DOCUMENTS LIST DATED
 15.02.2024

Annexure A4 THE CERTIFIED COPY OF THE ORDER IN
 CRL.M.C NO 278/2024 OF THE SESSIONS
 JUDGE, THRISSUR DATED 02.04.2024

Annexure A5 THE TRUE PHOTOCOPY OF THE FIR & FIS IN
 CRIME 303/2024 OF THE OTTAPALAM POLICE
 STATION DATED 06.03.2024