Union Minister of Communications Jyotiraditya Scindia chaired a stakeholders’ meeting for the Sanchar Saathi initiative on July 29, aiming to strengthen efforts against telecom-related cyber frauds, as per a Press Information Bureau (PIB) press release .

Underscoring the need for increased awareness, the meeting also encouraged citizen reporting (Jan-bhagidari) and called for implementing preventive measures.

The interaction included key stakeholders such as Rajesh Kumar (CEO of the Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre), Shikha Goel (Head of Telangana’s Cyber Security Bureau), Pushpamitra Sahu (Chief General Manager, Reserve Bank of India), and Shivnath Thukral (Head of Public Policy at PhonePe), among others.

“We are resolute in building a stronger, faster, and more collaborative response system, safeguarding every mobile user in Bharat,” wrote Scindia in an X (formerly Twitter) post.

Chaired a productive stakeholder interaction on Sanchar Saathi with law enforcement agencies, financial institutions, TSPs and citizen contributors. We are resolute in building a stronger, faster and more collaborative response system, safeguarding every mobile user in Bharat.… pic.twitter.com/t4msXIUf88

For context, the Centre launched the Sanchar Saathi initiative in May 2023 with a focus on citizen-centric digital safety.

This initiative integrates the CEIR system (Central Equipment Identity Register) to block stolen or lost phones. For instance, a person who has lost their mobile must enter their IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) number into the CEIR portal. They must also add a copy of their police complaint to verify the request.

Authorities claim that the CEIR system allows law enforcement outfits to trace a device if anyone tries to use it after blocking.

Elsewhere, the Sanchar Saathi initiative integrates tools like DIP (Digital Intelligence Platform), AI-based systems like ASTR to detect fake connections, and Financial FRI (Fraud Risk Indicator) to identify and prevent potential cyber frauds

The digital safety initiative has disconnected more than 8.2 million fake mobile connections and blocked over 3.5 million lost/stolen phones until now, as per the PIB press release.

“The initiative has also successfully prevented 1.35 crore (13.5 million) spoofed international calls within just 24 hours of launching this system. [The] system has affected a 97% reduction in such calls,” it added.

Elsewhere, the Sanchar Saathi portal witnessed public engagement to the tune of 160 million visits and an average of 200,000 users every day.

Notably, the portal’s CEIR system traced around 2.15 million lost/stolen devices and recovered 519,000 such devices. In addition, the AI-powered ASTR tool, citizen reports, and stakeholders’ inputs helped in disconnecting over 47 million mobile connections.

“The initiative has also led to the blocking of 5.1 lakh (510,000) mobile handsets, disengagement of 24.46 lakh (2.44 million) WhatsApp accounts, and blacklisting of 20,000 bulk SMS senders involved in fraudulent activities,” the press release reads.

Elsewhere, Scindia launched the Sanchar Saathi mobile application in Hindi and 21 other Indian regional languages. Users have downloaded this application more than 4.6 million times.

The press release says that a user can report suspicious communications like cyber frauds, check for unauthorised mobile connections, and block or trace lost/stolen phones through the mobile application, originally launched in January 2025.

“It is now available on both Android and iOS platforms, empowering citizens across India with multilingual digital safety tools,” it further adds.

Elsewhere, the Sanchar Saathi initiative has also onboarded more than 600 organisations, including the likes of central agencies, telecom service providers (TSPs), state police forces, and the Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN).

The latest Sanchar Saathi meeting comes in the wake of Scindia revealing in the Lok Sabha in April 2025 that the DoT disconnected 34 million mobile numbers. AI analysis, stakeholder inputs, and citizen feedback assisted in carrying out these disconnections.

The DoT back then also blocked the IMEI of 319,000 mobile handsets and blacklisted more than 20,000 bulk SMS senders.

And although the Sanchar Saathi digital safety initiative looks beneficial for all users at first glance, a more detailed analysis points towards a potential technological gap.

For instance, ASTR – which is used to track SIM card holders using subscriber photos—gives the DoT access to an individual’s personal information, which can be passed around other Government departments as well.

In addition, facial recognition systems (such as the ones that ASTR uses) are known to have low accuracy rates and racial biases and are unsuccessful in detecting ageing.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event