What’s the news?

The Jabalpur Municipal Corporation has issued a tender to implement a surveillance system in the city, whose objectives include monitoring protests and behaviour of people. The system must facilitate the police to “track and control the movement of all the vehicles running on ground,” the tender states. It goes on to say that the system should allow taking “feeds from other surveillance mediums like mobile camera feed and body-worn cameras”, for better interoperability.

You can view the full Request For Proposal (RFP) document here .

Why it matters: JMC is looking for a “complete end-to-end solution for surveillance application,” and it should be scalable to “meet the growing demands of the city,” the tender says. This suggests that JMC is inclined to increase surveillance coverage in the city. With limited data protection rights in India, rising surveillance is a cause for concern. A report by Comparitech states that Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai are among the most surveilled cities in the world, outside of China, which is the most surveilled country . It also states that Indore has the highest number of CCTV cameras per 1000 people in the world (excluding China) at 62 cameras per 1000 people. In the light of rising surveillance, it is important to keep a check on how and for what purpose surveillance tech is being deployed.

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

What is the purpose of this tender?

Gajendra Singh, E-Gov Manager, Jabalpur Smart City Limited told Medianama “This tender is not for surveillance. The Central Government has a mission to reduce India’s AQI by controlling pollution. In this regard, we’re implementing some Public Announcement (PA) systems. The motive is to reduce congestion in high traffic and crowded areas by installing PA and surveillance systems.” He also informed Medianama that the tender was prepared by PwC in collaboration with the JMC.

However, in addition to traffic management, the tender mentions several other objectives and use-cases:

More problematic provisions:

Tender document on data storage and protection

Growing role of ICCC: A concern

ICCC or the Integrated Command and Control Centres help in “managing operations of the smart components installed across the city. ” ICCC’s in India collect data on a variety of local issues, from CCTV and traffic management data to information about water management and garbage collection. This video about Surat’s ICCC reveals the functions that ICCCs can perform and how it looks.

Below are some of the stated objectives of ICCC in Jabalpur:

More and more cities are taking the ICCC route by collecting and monitoring more data to ‘improve city operations’.

A case against CCTV cameras

These are just some of the ways in which CCTV cameras have been or can be misused. And with the advanced surveillance technology with the police and government today, such monitoring can only become more frequent and invasive.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event