SANJAY KAROL, J. For convenience of reference, this judgment is divided into

 the following parts: Hereinafter referred to as ‘Trial Court’ 2 Hereinafter referred to as ‘FIR’ 3 Hereinafter referred to as ‘ IPC ’ 4 Hereinafter referred to as ‘DPA, 1961’ Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 3 of 46 DOWRY: A CROSS-CULTURAL EVIL 3. Evil, unless eradicated, can never be contained. What
originally began as a voluntary gift-giving practice to the daughter
upon marriage, for her own use and financial independence, with
time, morphed into an institutionalized practice - becoming an
essential aspect of hypergamy5. This practice of marrying ‘higher
up’ traces its origins to caste and kinship along with, to use a
colloquial term, the ‘baggage of the samaj’ that comes with it. Since
lineage is traced through the patriarchal line, the desire to marry
daughters into equal or higher-status families ensured that their
offspring retained or enhanced the family’s standing. Hypergamy
thus became both a social strategy and a religiously sanctioned
norm. Among upper castes, this evolved into rigid practices where
daughters were “married up” to families of higher ritual or political
rank, often necessitating large dowries as inducements. Over time,
hypergamy was not just about varna but also about wealth,
landholding, and political influence. Medieval royal families
practiced hypergamy to forge alliances, and landed elites followed
suit to consolidate power. By the early modern and colonial periods,
hypergamy had become a widespread cultural pattern across many
Hindu communities, entrenching the link between dowry and 5 https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/hypergamy Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 4 of 46 upward mobility. Today, even though outlawed, it continues, having
divorced itself entirely from the well-being of the female (its
original intent) to what is now being referred to as the ‘groom price
theory’- i.e., the amount of dowry being determined by the
particulars of the groom, such as social and educational background,
earning capacity etc. What all of this translates to, is a systemic bias
against women - pervasive across all sections of society -
undervaluing them grossly. The amount of dowry the woman brings
into the marital home directly corresponds to the value of the groom,
which the woman, just as herself, is condemned to be unable to
meet, or is otherwise unworthy, sans the dower.6 4. As this case represents, however, dowry is not a feature only
amongst the Hindus, but it can also be found in other communities
professing different faiths and religions. In Islam, dowry, stricto
senso, is prohibited. What is prescribed is, in fact, the reverse.
‘mehr’ is a compulsory gift that the groom is required to give to the
bride at the time of marriage. It is an essential part of the nikah
(marriage contract), without which the contract is considered
incomplete. The mehr can take many forms - money, jewellery,
property, or any valuable as agreed upon by the couple - but what 6 Suparna Soni, PhD “Institution of Dowry in India: A Theoretical Inquiry”, Societies Without
Borders, Vol 14, Issue 1 (2020) Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 5 of 46 defines it is that it belongs solely to the bride and cannot be taken
back by the husband or his family. The Quran makes this obligation
explicit in Surah An-Nisa (4:4)7: ‫وءاتُوا ٱلنِسآء صدُق ٰـتِ ِهن نِحْ لة ۚ فإِن ِطبْن‬
٤ ‫“ ل ُك ْم عن ش ْىء ِم ْنهُ ن ْفسا ف ُكلُوهُ هنِ ٓيـا م ِر ٓيـا‬And give the women [upon
marriage] their bridal gifts graciously. But if they of themselves
remit to you a portion of it, then you may enjoy it with pleasure and
goodwill”8 The purpose of mehr is both symbolic and practical: it
signifies respect for the woman and ensures her financial security in
the marriage. 5. The adoption of dowry amongst the Muslims of the
subcontinent is explained through a combination of cultural,
economic, and institutional factors. Historically, dowry was most
closely associated with Hindu caste society, but over a time it
diffused into Muslim practices through processes of cultural
assimilation, social emulation, and inter-community influence9.
Scholarly undertakings trace how Muslim families, particularly in
urban centers, began adopting dowry as a status marker and as part
of competitive marriage negotiations. At the same time, marriage- https://quran.com/an-nisa/4 8 The Qur’an, English Meanings, Saheeh International, 1997. See,
https://alrashidmosque.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/The-Quran-Saheeh-International.pdf 9 See, Generally- Abdul Waaheed, The Phenomenon of Dowry Among Muslims in India,
Centre for the Study Of Social Systems School of Social Sciences Jawaharlal Nehru University, 1987 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 6 of 46 market pressures - including imbalances in sex ratios, rising
educational aspirations, and competition for higher-status grooms -
encouraged families to provide substantial dowry payments. 6. As a result, mehr and dowry have come to coexist in complex
ways. In many Muslim marriages in India, mehr continues to be
stipulated, but often only in nominal terms. The real financial
transfers flow from the bride’s family to the groom, effectively
hollowing out the protective function of mehr. This undermines the
original Islamic intention of empowering women through property
ownership, as the dowry frequently ends up under the control of the
husband or his family10. Where dowry replaces or overshadows
mehr, women lose an important bargaining tool and face greater
economic vulnerability. Scholars note that this dual system -
nominal mehr alongside substantial dowry - illustrates how religious
norms have been reshaped by social and economic forces. The
consequences of this shift are serious. Dowry places a heavy
financial burden on the bride’s family, sometimes delaying or 10 See, Section 4 of Okumus and Gümüş, “Revitalizing 'mahr' for Muslim women's
empowerment within Türkiye's secular legal system”, Social Sciences and Humanities Open,
Volume 12, 2025. See,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2590291125003729#abs0015 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 7 of 46 preventing daughters’ marriages11. It has also been linked to
harassment, domestic violence, and even dowry deaths - problems
that affect not only the Muslim households but cut across all
religions. By contrast, the neglect of mehr erodes women’s financial
security, leaving them less protected in cases of divorce or
widowhood. 7. The eradication of dowry is an urgent constitutional and
social necessity. Dowry, legally defined under Section 2 of the DPA,
1961, refers to “any property or valuable security given or agreed
to be given directly or indirectly” by one party to a marriage to the
other, or by the parents of either party, in connection with the
marriage. Although the law sought to prohibit the practice, dowry
has persisted in society, slipping through the statutory definition,
cloaked as “gifts” and social expectations. This practice is, at the
most basic level, at odds with the values enshrined in the
Constitution, i.e., the constitutional ethos of justice, liberty, and
fraternity, and more particularly, Article 14 , which guarantees
equality before the law and equal protection of the laws, a principle
directly undermined by a system that treats women as a source of
financial extraction and reinforces structural discrimination. In this case as well, one of the reasons given by the father of the deceased, for not being able
to fulfill the demands of the respondent son-in law, was that he had other daughters whose
marriage, he has to make arrangements for. 8. The Constituent Assembly debates highlight that
independence was meant to inaugurate not only political freedom
but also social transformation. Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, amongst others
emphasized that democracy in India would be hollow if entrenched
social hierarchies and oppressive customs continued unchecked.
While dowry was not debated specifically, the Assembly’s call for
social reform in pursuit of justice and equality clearly applies to the
eradication of such a practice. 9. Thus, eliminating dowry is not only a matter of enforcing the
DPA 1961 but a constitutional imperative. It fulfills the Republic’s
promise that every woman should enter marriage as an equal citizen
and not as the bearer of an unjust financial burden. FACTS OF THE CASE 10. The facts of this case are as follows: Respondent in Criminal Appeal No. 132 of 2017 13 Respondent in Criminal Appeal No. 133 of 2017 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 9 of 46 (ii) Repeatedly, Ajmal, Jamila and other family members
 had demanded from the deceased and her father Taslim
 Beg (PW1)14, a coloured television, a motorcycle and
 Rs. 15,000/-. (iii) Ajmal reiterated his demand to PW1 on 4th June 2001
 and, in similar fashion to the previous times that this
 demand had been made, later had expressed his
 inability to comply. (iv) The next day, on 5th June 2001 Ajmal, Jamila (the two
 Respondents before us) Aslam, Shakila @Wakila,
 Shabina and Akbar Beg - all accused persons before the
 Trial Court, allegedly assaulted the deceased and
 threatened her that if she doesn’t fulfil their demands,
 they would kill her. (v) Alarmed at such threat, the deceased called for help and
 certain persons namely, Fahmid Beg and Khaliq Beg
 (PW2)15 reached the spot but by that time the accused
 persons had set her on fire by pouring kerosene oil, and
 she could not be saved. (vi) PW2 informed PW1 who reached the spot of crime and
 found the deceased lying burnt, dead. An FIR was 14 Hereinafter referred to as ‘PW1’ 15 Hereinafter referred to as ‘PW2’ Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 10 of 46 lodged, setting in motion the machinery of criminal
 law. (vii) Upon completion of investigation, challan was
 presented for trial. THE FINDINGS OF THE TRIAL COURT 11. The findings arrived at by the Trial Court were on the basis
of 8 witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution. The defense
led no evidence other than deposing in statements under Section 313 Code of Criminal Procedure 197316, that they had been falsely
implicated in the case, owing to enmity. The discussion made by the
Trial Court can be encapsulated as follows: Further, in his cross examination he testified to the demand
 for a colour TV, motorcycle/scooter and Rs.15000/-. The
 demand made on 4th June 2001 was testified by PW1 and 16 Hereinafter referred to as ‘ Cr.PC ’ Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 11 of 46 Zahida (PW6)17 as well. The fact that the names of all the
 accused persons were not mentioned in the FIR is not of
 negative consequence for the prosecution as the same has
 been mentioned by PW1 in his statement under Section
 161 , CrPC. (ii) Qua the involvement of the other accused (excluding
 Ajmal, Jamila), upon consideration of all the testimonies
 on record, it was held that Shakila and Shabina, being
 married daughters, resided in their matrimonial homes
 and were not to gain anything from the additional demand
 of dowry. For Aslam also, it was concluded that he does
 not live in the same house. (iii) The defence of the accused, to the effect that no
 immediate demand for dowry had been made, was
 rejected, given the uncontroverted position that a day
 prior to the incident, Ajmal’s demand for dowry had been
 established. Physical and mental torture, in the facts,
 stood proved. (iv) Other ancillary arguments such as the possibility that the
 deceased had committed suicide were rejected given that
 none of the accused persons had tried to save her. Hereinafter referred to as ‘PW6’ Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 12 of 46 (v) The quilt and the thatched roof having also been burnt led
 the Court to the conclusion that the deceased has been
 burnt to death, by pouring so much kerosene oil that even
 the above-mentioned quilt and roof caught fire. (vi) Guilt of only Ajmal and Jamila - Respondents before us,
 was as such deemed established beyond reasonable doubt
 and sentenced as under: 12. Quite apparently no appeal against the judgment of acquittal
was preferred and only the two aforesaid convicts assailed the Trial
Court judgment. The High Court in arriving at a conclusion,
opposite to the Trial Court acquitted both Ajmal and Jamila, and
made the following observations: – (i) Both PW1 and PW6 are not eyewitnesses to the
 incident, being residents of not the same, but a nearby Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 13 of 46 village. They claim receipt of information about the
 incident through PW2, brother of PW6. (ii) The evidence of PW2 is unreliable. It was held- (a) That he seems confused and not in direct
 knowledge of the events surrounding the death of the
 deceased. Instead, it appeared that he had gathered
 information from secondary sources, which he then
 transmitted to PW1. (b) In his examination-in-chief, the witness stated
 that having seen the deceased lying dead in the
 verandah from where he, along with another witness,
 Fahmid, saw Ajmal and other men fleeing, as also the
 females exiting, he went and informed the parents of
 the deceased. However, in his cross-examination, he
 says that he has not informed them. (c) Similarly, he cannot place the above said
 Fahmid, at the scene of the incident, when cross-
 examined about the same. (d) His version that the deceased had, prior to the
 incident, had come over to his house and complained
 about the behaviour of Ajmal and others is concluded
 by the High Court to be an important fact. This too, Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 14 of 46 however, is disbelieved given that PW1 and PW6,
 both, did not say anything to that effect. (e) Another factor taken against the credibility of
 PW2 is that he did not, in the course of investigation,
 make any statement before the police. (iii) The evidence of PW6 is also doubted on similar
 accounts as she did not make any statement during the
 investigation, before the police, and that during her
 cross examination she stated that her daughter lived in
 the matrimonial house happily. (iv) Certain other observations made, merit being extracted
 hereunder: –
 “ PW6 was stating in paragraph 5 of her evidence that
 there was no demand of dowry ever prior to the marriage,
 and it was made only after marriage. Thus, there is
 sufficient evidence before the Court to record that the
 marriage was dowryless. If that be so, then we have some
 difficulty in accepting that such heavy demands for
 articles could be made by the appellants subsequently.
 We, further find the allegations of demand of dowry-
 articles improbable for the reason that PW6 and PW1,
 both have stated that the accused persons were poor
 fellows. We believe that the demands are made as per
 status of a man, as regards the present case, in our opinion,
 the appellants could not have even afforded to maintain
 the articles, which was demanded by them. This also
 makes it notacceptable. We find that both PWs 1 & 6 were
 feeling cheated and let down by the fact that their daughter
 had been married to a person who belonged to the poor
 stratum of the society. PW1, the father was venting his
 disgust and frustration on account of being cheated. While Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 15 of 46 reply to a question, which appears at page 22 of the paper
 book, that the accused persons had let him down.” 13. The State, being aggrieved by the acquittal based on the
findings as aforesaid, has carried the matter in appeal before us. We
have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION 14. Before adverting to the merits of the matter, it would be useful
to take note of a few pronouncements of this Court regarding the
sections under which the Trial Court had originally convicted, and
the High Court has subsequently acquitted Ajmal and Jamila. (1)Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or
 bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal
 circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is
 shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty
 or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband
 for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death
 shall be called “dowry death”, and such husband or relative
 shall be deemed to have caused her death. Explanation.— For the purpose of this sub-section, “dowry”
 shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Dowry
 Prohibition Act, 1961 (28 of 1961). (2)Whoever commits dowry death shall be punished with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven
 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life.” a) Pawan Kumar v. State of Haryana18 , culled out the
 following essentials of the Section- “6. Let us see Section 304-B IPC. The ingredients necessary
 for the application of Section 304-B are: 7. If these conditions exist, it would constitute a dowry death;
 and the husband and/or his relatives shall be deemed to have
 caused her death. In the present case, it is not in dispute that
 the deceased Urmil died of burn injuries, that she died
 otherwise than under normal circumstances, and that the death
 was within a period of 7 years of marriage. The only
 consideration has to be: whether she was subjected to any
 cruelty or harassment by the appellants soon before her death,
 and whether the same was for or in connection with any
 demand of dowry.” 18 (1998) 3 SCC 309 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 17 of 46 b) The discussion in Ashok Kumar v. State of Haryana19 is important to understand the phrase “soon before her death”
 as it appears in the Section. It was held:- … 22. The cruelty and harassment by the husband or any
 relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with,
 any demand for dowry. The expression “demand for dowry”
 will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word
 immediately preceding this expression. Similarly, “in
 connection with the marriage” is an expression which has to 19 (2010) 12 SCC 350 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 18 of 46 be given a wider connotation. It is of some significance that
 these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to
 avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
 These are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social
 legislations, intended to control offences relating to the
 society as a whole. Dowry is something which existed in our
 country for a considerable time and the legislature in its
 wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to
 dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the
 marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for
 satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence
 of the marriage.”
 (emphasis supplied)

[See also: Devender Singh v. State of Uttarakhand20& Parvati
Devi v. State of Bihar21]

 II. PRESUMPTION OF DOWRY DEATH

 14.2 Section 113B
 “Presumption as to dowry death. ––-When the question is
 whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman
 and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had
 been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for, or
 in connection with, any demand for dowry, the court shall
 presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
 Explanation. –– For the purposes of this section, “dowry
 death” shall have the same meaning as in section 304B of the
 Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).]” 20 (2022) 13 SCC 82 21 (2022) 14 SCC 500 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 19 of 46 a) A three judge bench in Devender Singh v. State of
 Uttarakhand22 , succinctly encapsulated the functioning of this
 presumption as follows: Explanation.— For the purpose of this section, “cruelty”
 means— (a)any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to
 drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury
 or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical)
 of the woman; or (b)harassment of the woman where such harassment is with
 a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet
 any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security
 or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her
 to meet such demand.”

Although there are numerous judgments that delineate the scope,
object behind the introduction of this Section reference to a recent
order of this Court in Aluri Venkata Ramana v. Aluri Thirupathi
Rao23 , would serve the present purpose. The relevant paragraphs are
extracted hereunder: - (emphasis supplied)

IV. DOWRY PROHIBITION ACT

 14.4 Sections 3 & 4 , DPA,1961

 It is also important to make reference to the objects and reasons

of the said Act, here itself: (2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to, or in relation
 to,— (a) presents which are given at the time of a marriage to the
 bride (without any demand having
 been made in that behalf): 15. Having appreciated the provisions and the judgments as
aforesaid, let us now proceed to consider whether, in view of the
evidence, the High Court was justified in setting aside the findings of
the Trial Court. However, prior to that we will undertake the task of
examining the scope of this Court’s power under Article 136 of the
Constitution of India in criminal matters. 15.1 In Surajdeo Mahto v. State of Bihar26 , it was held: is that when the Courts below concurred, this Court does not
 enter into the reappreciation of the evidence, in a criminal
 case. In the present case, the Courts below have, in fact,
 arrived at opposite findings and as such, to set the matter to
 rest either by conviction or acquittal, this Court must analyse
 the evidence on record. 16. As we have already observed, the defense led no evidence. Let
us, in that view of the matter, revisit the evidence of those witnesses
on the basis of which the High Court arrived at findings opposite that
of the Trial Court. 16.1 PW1, Taslim Beg, the father of the deceased testified
 that marriage of the deceased and Ajmal, took place about 2
 years and a few months back from the date of recording of the
 evidence and that he had given certain goods as dowry in the
 said wedding. The demand for further dowry in the form of
 goods mentioned earlier as well has been consistent, to which 27 (1976) 1 SCC 6 28 1992 Supp (3) SCC 161 29 (1998) 9 SCC 3 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 27 of 46 he has also disclosed his response which was to the effect that,
 providing the same would be beyond his financial
 capabilities. He testified that since her marriage the deceased
 had visited her natal home, on 10 - 12 occasions, till her
 passing and that grievance of harassment regarding dowry
 was almost a regular feature. The deceased told her father that
 she had been warned of the consequences of non-fulfillment
 of their demands - to the effect that she would be killed. On
 the last occasion when she visited, even then, this issue came
 up and he ‘advised’ her before sending her off with Ajmal.
 According to him, PW2 and Fahmid Beg, who told him of this
 horrible incident, were eyewitnesses to the same. The only effective point in the cross-examination was
 as to why the initial report filed by this witness was lacking
 in detail - but in our considered view, not material particulars. 16.2 PW2 is Khaliq Beg, the maternal uncle of the
 deceased and brother-in-law of the complainant - PW1. In
 his examination-in-chief he testified to the specific demand
 of dowry in terms of the motorcycle, colour TV and cash to
 the tune of Rs.15,000/- and complaints made by the
 deceased regarding harassment, to the effect that Ajmal and
 other members of his family did undertake, in his presence Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 28 of 46 as also that of other witnesses that they would not harass the
 deceased in this regard. He, along with Fahmid Beg reached
 the spot and saw some of the accused, including Ajmal
 fleeing from the spot and yet others running away from the
 house, seeing them approaching. By way of cross-examination, it comes forth that
 although he was the one to have informed PW1 of the
 incident, but the presence of Fahmid Beg is under question.
 On a suggestion that, the deceased was in fact unhappy and
 as such, had committed suicide as opposed to Ajmal and the
 other accused having killed her, he denied the same. He states
 that he had seen the accused persons running away from the
 spot but however, not seen them actually setting the deceased
 ablaze. 16.3 PW-4 is Dr. VK Mishra who conducted the post-
 mortem of the deceased. The cause of death was testified to
 be asphyxia and shock caused by extreme burns. It was
 deposed that hundred percent of the body surface was burnt
 down to the muscles. It was possible, therefore, that the death
 had been caused due to pouring of kerosene. There was no
 injury inflicted by any weapon on the body. 16.4 PW6, is the mother of the deceased and wife of the
 complainant. She testified to the particular demand of Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 29 of 46 motorcycle, cash Rs.15,000/- and a colour TV; the 10 or 12
 prior visits of the deceased; the demand of dowry a day before
 the death of the deceased and, PW2 informing them of the
 incident. In her cross-examination, it comes forth that the
 deceased apparently lived in the matrimonial home, happily. 17. A perusal of the witness statements, as encapsulated above,
reveal the following facts: 18. A perusal of the testimonies also reveals the following
inconsistencies: examination it appears that presence of Fahmid Beg, could not
 be established. (d) On the one hand, all witnesses depose as to the continued
 harassment of the deceased for dowry, whereas on the other,
 PW6 stated that she lived in her matrimonial home happily. 19. What is now for us to do is balance the position of statements
unblemished by the assault of cross-examination and the
inconsistencies, omissions, contradictions in the testimony of
witnesses, in order to determine the guilt, as found proved by the
Trial Court, or lack thereof as held by the High Court. At this
juncture, we must notice the effect of certain omissions or
inconsistencies in the testimonies of witnesses. 19.1 In Sohrab v. State of M.P.30 the Court held as follows
 in connection with inconsistencies in statement of witnesses in
 a criminal trial: We cannot agree. True it is that this fact has not come in the
testimony of the parents of the deceased, but it is equally so that the
statement of PW2 could not be shaken by cross-examination.
Further, it is generally well understood that demands for dowry lead
to considerable stress on the paternal family, and it is entirely Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 34 of 46 possible that, being fully aware of the situation, PW2 did not want
this additional incident to cause further stress on PWs 1 and 6. We
notice further that the examination-in-chief as well as the cross-
examination of PW 2 took place on 8th April 2003 and this fact was
therefore, on record much before the testimony and cross-
examination of PW6 which took place on 2nd July 2003. No question
appears on record regarding this incident. That being the case, it
would only be on the basis of conjectures and surmises that the
statement of PW2 would be rejected and as such, it would be unfair
and unjust to cast doubt on the testimony of the said witness. 22. Now, coming to the alleged happiness of the deceased in her
married life we only wish that it was true. Once again adverting to
the testimonies of the witnesses, PW1 said as quoted hereunder: 23. We may also record that the reasoning given by the High
Court to acquit Ajmal and Jamila, in the considered view of this
Court, is fallacious. The learned judges record that as per the
statement of PW6, there was no demand of dowry prior to the
marriage and, therefore, they have certain difficulties in accepting
the factum of subsequent demand. We find this difficult to accept
for two reasons - one, that PW1’s statement regarding having given
certain goods as dowry to Ajmal and his family at the time of
marriage, has gone unrebutted, and two, that the DPA, 1961 does
not distinguish between demand made prior to or after marriage. In
this regard Section 2 thereof, which runs thus, may be seen – 2. Definition of “dowry”.—In this Act, “dowry” means any
 property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either
 directly or indirectly— (a) by one party to a marriage to the other
 party to the marriage; or (b) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other
 person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person;
 at or before [or any time after the marriage] [in connection with
 the marriage of the said parties, but does not include] dower or
 mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law
 (Shariat) applies. 4*****
 Explanation II.—The expression “valuable security” has the same
 meaning as in section 30 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). It is clear from the above that any property or valuable security given
by either party to a marriage to the other, or by any other person to
the party to marriage, or to any other person, on the day of marriage,
before or at any time after marriage, shall be considered to be dowry. So, the demand by Ajmal and/or his family members for a colour
TV, a motorcycle and Rs.15,000/- in cash, unquestionably
constitutes dowry. Yet another reason given by the High Court for acquittal was
that since Ajmal and his family members were poor, they could not
have made such demand because even if they managed to procure
the same, they had no means of maintaining the said goods. Suffice
it to say that this reason does not appeal to reason. We may also observe that, while reversing the findings of
facts returned by the Trial Court, the High Court has not assigned
any reasons explicitly holding such findings to be
erroneous/perverse or illegal. CONCLUSION 24. The upshot of the discussion made in the preceding
paragraphs is that the High Court has erred in setting aside the
judgment of conviction returned by the Additional District Judge,
Bijnor, and acquitting Ajmal and Jamila in connection with the FIR
bearing No. 94/2001 registered at P.S Kiratpur, under Sections 498-
A and 304-B , IPC and Section 3 / 4 of the DPA, 1961. The State’s
appeals, therefore, deserve to be allowed. The judgment of the Trial Court, insofar as it relates to the
conviction of both Ajmal and Jamila, is restored, as also the Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 38 of 46 quantum of sentence in respect of Ajmal is concerned. However,
insofar as the respondent in Criminal Appeal No. 133 of 2017 is
concerned, i.e., Jamila, who, as we have recorded in our order
reserving judgment dated 10th September 2025, is 94 years of age -
the question we must ask ourselves is whether any fruitful purpose
will be served by sending her to prison. While weighing and
assessing sentencing particularly in case of convicts of advanced age
such as in praesenti causa, the Court must take into consideration
humanitarian considerations which dictate that imposing
imprisonment may be inhumane, given the severe physical frailty,
likely medical dependency, and reduced capacity to endure the
hardships of custody, thereby implicating and compromising the
dignity protected under law. As such, while we restore the
conviction as awarded by the Trial Court however, in the attending
facts and circumstances of this case, we refrain from incarcerating
her. Respondent Ajmal in Criminal Appeal No. 132 of 2017 is
directed to surrender before the concerned Court, within a period of
four weeks from today, for serving the sentence awarded by the Trial
Court. 25. Before we part with this judgment, we deem it appropriate to
note that while in this case, the accused person(s) has finally been
brought to book, there are many cases in which it is not the case. Many, who openly seek and give dowry, go scot-free. It has been
noted time and again, in various judicial pronouncements that DPA,
1961 suffers from various difficulties in its implementation. About
forty-two years ago, R.S Pathak J., (as His Lordship then was) in Bhagwant Singh v. Commr. of Police34 , observed: A few years later, taking note of this ineffective implementation,
this Court even entertained a writ petition35 and issued various
directions for effective implementation of the Act finally
culminating in Enforcement and Implementation of Dowry
Prohibition Act, 1961 , In re36. These issues undoubtedly persist today. The tables37 below
capture the current position of cases arising out of Section 304-B and 498-A IPC. 1. Annual Incidence of Dowry Deaths
 ( Section 304B IPC) [2019–2023] 38

 Year Total Dowry Deaths Year-on-Year Change

 2019 7141 - Data supplied by Centre for Research and Planning, Supreme Court of India 38 Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) Reports Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 41 of 46 2021 6753 ▼ 3.06%
 2022 6516 ▼ 3.51%
 2023 6156 ▼ 5.52% 2. Annual Incidence of Cruelty by Husband/ Relatives
 ( Section 498A IPC) [2019–2023]39

 Year Cruelty by Husband/ Year-on-Year
 Relatives Change

 2019 124934 - While on the one hand, the law suffers from ineffectiveness
 and so, the malpractice of dowry remains rampant, on the other
 hand, the provisions of this Act have also been used to ventilate
 ulterior motives along with Section 498-A , IPC. This oscillation
 between ineffectiveness and misuse creates a judicial tension
 which needs urgent resolution. While this urgent resolution cannot
 be stressed upon enough, at the same time it is necessary to be 39 Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) Reports Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 42 of 46 recognized that particularly when it comes to the giving and taking
of dowry, this practice unfortunately has deep roots in society,
hence, it not being a matter of swift change, instead needs
concentrated effort on part of all the involved parties, be it
Legislature, law enforcement, Judiciary, civil society
organizations etc. 26. With an intent to further this change, we issue the following
directions: - 27. Let a copy of this judgment be circulated electronically to
the Registrar General of the High Courts who are requested to
place the same before the Learned Chief Justices and solicit
directions in accordance with the above, and also, to the Chief
Secretaries of all States for necessary follow up action. 27.1 While the main appeals are disposed of, so far as these
 directions are concerned, to ensure compliance thereof, as
 also issue any other directions as may be necessary, list this
 matter after four weeks. States are requested to file affidavits
 indicating the position qua the direction given under (b)
 hereinabove. The High Courts shall do the same for (d). Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. …………………………………………….…J.
 (SANJAY KAROL)

 ……………………………………………..…J.
 (NONGMEIKAPAM KOTISWAR SINGH)

New Delhi; December 15, 2025 Crl. Appeal Nos. 132-133 of 2017 Page 46 of 46