A total of Rs 661.50 crore worth of wage fund transfer orders (FTOs) are pending to be disbursed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Minister of State for Rural Development Chandra Sekhar Pemmasani informed the parliament on Tuesday. This came in response to questions asked by MPs K C Venugopal and K Sudhakaran on the status of wage disbursement under MGNREGS.

Under the MNREGS, after the assessment of the work done by farm labourers, the state government generates a fund transfer order (FTO) based on which the central government then releases that amount. Authorities could credit this amoun t directly to the bank or post office accounts of MGNREGS beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer. However, in January 2024, the central government mandated transferring the funds through the Aadhaar-Based Payment System (ABPS).

“Aadhaar Based Payment System (ABPS) has been made mandatory since January 1, 2024, to ensure faster, safer, and timely wage disbursement to beneficiaries under Mahatma Gandhi NREGS,” the answer noted in response to the part of the question asking about the corrective measures taken by the government to ensure timely payment of wages.

The system, however, has had a chequered past.

Authorities transfer wages directly to the labourer’s bank account if the worker’s bank account and job card are linked to their Aadhaar card, under the Aadhaar-based Payments System. Additionally, the labourer must link their bank account to the National Payments Corporation of India’s (NPCI) ‘mapper,’ an information repository that maps the seeding of Aadhaar cards with the seeded banks by account holders.

The order mandating the system has attracted a lot of backlash over the years. NREGA Sangharsh Morcha, a national coalition of NREGA workers and organisations, noted that the mandate was “an assault on the right to work guaranteed” by the scheme, in February 2023, . Economist Jean Dreze had noted how inconsistencies between the various systems involved, Aadhaar-related info (biometrics, addresses, etc) NPCI mapper and the job card, could lead to problems for Aadhaar-based payments of NREGA wages.

States were deleting job cards that were not eligible for ABPS in a rush to comply with the central government mandate requiring all payments to be made under the system, a report from The Hindu revealed . A study conducted by Lib Tech, a consortium of academics and activists, showed that 84.8 lakh MGNREGS-registered workers found their names deleted from their job cards between April and September of 2024. The report also noted that the high rate of deletions coincided with the government’s push for the ABPS.

“[Deletion of job cards] is the responsibility of the state and it is not the centre’s responsibility,” Pemmasani said. This came in response to a question posed by Indian National Congress (INC) MP Shashikant Senthil on budget allocation to MGNREGA and the issues with the National Mobile Monitoring System app that allows real-time tracking of attendance of registered workers. “You have introduced an app in which every year farm labourers will have to go and register attendance. Do you have an idea how many people are not able to register on that app? You have deleted cards left, right, and centre. Do you have an account of how many cards you have reduced?” A question in a similar vein was later raised by MP KC Venugopal in addition to which he said, “In the last four years, names of 10.43 crore MNREGA workers across India have been deleted,” K Venugopal said in the Parliament .

“Ninety nine percent of all job-card holders have Aadhaar seeding and there are no issues. Aadhaar seeding is nothing but increasing transparency. This is a means to deliver the amount directly into the bank. It has no intervention and it is not an obstacle,” said Pemmasani in his reply. He also listed out the possible reasons for cancellation saying, “The way job deletion will happen [is] if there are fake applicants, duplicates, or if the village becomes urbanized or if the person moves from one gram panchayat to another gram panchayat. That’s when the job cards will be deleted. And this [job card deletions] is the responsibility of the state. The central government does not have any role.”

“Every year 10-20,000 crore more of budget is allocated,” the minister claimed. The original budget allocation of the last session was Rs 60,000. In comparison, the Rs 86,000 crore allocated for 2024-25 is a 43.3% increase. However, last year’s budget was then revised to Rs 86,000. Keeping that in mind, we see that there has been no increase in budget for the scheme. Especially considering that MNREGA is essentially a demand-driven scheme , a zero % increase in the allocation deceives the minister’s claim. Moreover, last session’s original allocation of Rs 60,000 itself was 18% lower than the original budget of Rs 73,000 crore and 33% lower than the revised estimate of Rs 89,000 crore for the scheme for the year 2022-23.

The government’s inconsistent handling of the scheme, from the budget stage to implementation, could exclude an already vulnerable population from schemes historically designed to benefit them. Moreover, in a country with such a deep digital divide, making a system as complicated as ABPS mandatory does raise questions about the changing priorities of those in power. Digitisation is a step forward, but preserving the basic tenet of inclusion in schemes like MGNREGS must come first and foremost.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event