The National Payments Corporation of India’s (NPCI) subsidiary NPCI Bharat BillPay Limited (NBBL) has introduced a digital payments platform that aims to simplify both internet and mobile banking.

For context, NBBL’s Bharat Connect platform is an interoperable net banking solution which aims to standardise and simplify high-value online transactions across banking institutions as well as payment aggregators.

In addition, the NBBL claims that there will be greater oversight of net banking transactions with Banking Connect, including payments linked to cryptocurrency and gaming.

“Today, banking operates as a mesh of bilateral ties between different merchants, payment aggregators and banks,” said Noopur Chaturvedi, who is the Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of NBBL.

Importantly, Chaturvedi claims that the new digital payments platform is going to shift the ‘heavy lifting’ of managing multiple banking connections from merchants and aggregators to NBBL.

NBBL says that the Banking Connect system is designed to reduce the complexity of current net banking processes, which frequently require multiple integrations and varied customer credentials, as well as non-standard settlement flows.

Notably, the immediate change for customers will be the availability of three payment pathways, namely:

Chaturvedi said that the ultimate aim is to give users a choice while also providing clearer information about grievances, chargeback timelines, and merchant settlements.

Importantly, she remarked that the current net banking process often pushes users to a webpage where they must enter an ID and password. And notably, forgetting these details can lead to the payment process dropping midway.

Chaturvedi said that the Banking Connect platform removes this impediment by taking customers directly to their own banking apps, making the transaction journey relatively familiar and easier.

“The customer gets routed to their own banking apps, and they can complete the transaction in the comfort of a familiar app,” Chaturvedi explained.

Furthermore, NBBL claims that the Banking Connect platform offers interoperable workflows and support for biometric authentication. It also claims to remove transaction caps and introduce standardised application programming interfaces (APIs) in order to reduce delays, redirections and timeout errors.

In terms of monitoring net banking transactions across the Indian banking ecosystem, Chaturvedi said that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) receives transaction data with a lag of about seven days, which expands further when it comes to smaller banking entities.

She claims that the Banking Connect platform will help solve this monitoring and oversight loophole for the apex bank while offering individual banks ‘faster and interoperable’ net banking through a single switch, which links all lenders and payment aggregators.

In this context, Chaturvedi said that NBBL is not focusing on numerical targets specifically; rather, it wants to simply observe how many commercial banks and payment facilitators are onboarded onto the Banking Connect platform.

Regarding safety measures, the NBBL CEO claimed that Banking Connect is using artificial intelligence (AI) to alert banks about suspicious transactions.

“We attempt to use new technologies like AI and ML (machine learning) to create fraud management systems which can identify and trigger a message to the bank,” she revealed.

At the 2025 Global Fintech Fest in October this year, the NPCI announced the Banking Connect platform, along with three other features for the Unified Payments Interface (UPI).

Importantly, even though unveiling new digital and mobile-first services represents another step ahead in India’s digital payments and fintech journey, one must keep in mind that using AI comes with its own set of risks.

In Banking Connect’s case, the NBBL will use AI/ML to develop fraud management systems to alert banks. However, RBI’s Deputy Governor T. Rabi Sankar warned about the unprecedented risks of AI at the Global Fintech Fest, where he called for mandatory “safety by design” checks throughout the AI life cycle to prevent market and payment system instability.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event