SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: can anyone do something ???
DATE: 2022-07-18
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/w2075k/can_anyone_do_something/

--- POST TEXT ---

their are some loan apps in google play store. who are say they are rbi registerd and show tenure of 90 to 180 days. but originally they are all fraud loan apps people who are needy of money take loan from them. they show you your loan got approve of 3000 but give you only 1500 and in 6th day they ask for repayment. if you can't do their repayment they hack your contacts. which already they got access when you download the app. and sending illegal stiff like morphing your picture sending nudes porn and saying that this person r*pe miner and stuff like that. many people including me are not aware of such harsh repayment method and length they go to. not even they call abuse and do stuff like that they also sell your info to the dark web or creat bitcoin wallet or open an account only without kyc and do their transaction. even if you pay their money they are gonna haras you like your payment is not updated and stuff. indian gov. have to do something about that situation its becoming really big problem for low income earning people like me. not cyber cell is doing anything not police do they say switched off your num and tell your friend and family about this and we will do something. and nothing happen they are still here and harassing many people. some choose to die because of their harrasment they massage you and saying frace like "tu payment nhi kiya to tere contacts me teri nangi pics bhejunga / bhejungi and tere group bana ke usme porn dalunga / dalungi aisi halat kar dungi ki tu suicide kar lega" without thinking any thing about him. they put immeasurable pressure on people and people will pay their money by taking more loans or constantly get haras. some people take loan from other apps to repay and the cycle go on and on some might get upto 5-6 lakh of loan because of this shitty apps. and sell their home or wifes or mothers jwelry to pay them. if they don't have anything to sell they choose to die. their illiterate recovery agents are doing this only for their 5-10 rs incentive and they all operate in little call center in mega city illegally. 

ps - sorry for bad english and that much lengthy post. if anyon can do anything plese do something to put a stop to it.