Per B.R. Baskaran (AM) :- 2. We shall first take up the appeal relating to A.Y. 2003-04, wherein the
assessee is contesting the disallowance of loss of ` 12.27 lakhs arising out of
share transactions. 3. We have heard the parties and perused the record. The assessee is
engaged in the business of share broking, share trading and investing in
shares. The assessee belongs to Ketan parekh group. This is the second round
of proceedings. In the first round, the Tribunal had set aside the issue of 2 C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . disallowance of business loss of ` 12,27,248/- arising out of share
transactions to the file of the Assessing Officer for fresh adjudication.
Accordingly, the Assessing Officer passed the order wherein he again
disallowed the claim of ` 12,27,248/- on the reasoning that the loss has been
incurred on account of invocation of shares and lower market rate relating to
the shares, which were involved in Securities Scam, 2001. The Assessing
Officer has further stated that the assessee has not taken any steps to prove
that the loss claimed by the assessee was genuine in nature. 4. In the first appellate proceedings, the learned CIT(A) confirmed the
disallowance of loss on the reasoning that the assessee has failed to furnish
the relevant details. Aggrieved, the assessee has filed this appeal before us. 5. Learned AR submitted that the loss claimed by the assessee mainly
consisted of loss on valuation of shares of Global Trust Bank Ltd. He
submitted that the assessee had purchased 1 lakh shares of Global Trust
Bank Ltd., during the year ended on 31.3.2001 at ` 63 lakhs. The assessee
has treated the same as its stock in trade. The assessee has been following
the method of valuation of stock as "Cost or market price whichever is lower".
During the year ended on 31.3.2002, the price of shares of Global trust back
fell down and accordingly the assessee valued the shares of Global Trust Bank
Ltd at ` 26,35,000/-. Accordingly it claimed loss towards diminution in value
at ` 36,65,000/- in AY 2002-03. During the year ended on 31.3.2003, i.e. the
year under consideration, the market value of the shares of Global Trust Bank
Ltd. went down further and accordingly the assessee valued shares at `
13,70,000/- as on 31.3.2003 and claimed loss of ` 12,65,000/- towards
diminution in the value of shares. The learned AR submitted that the assessee
has been following above said method of valuation of stock consistently over
the years. He also submitted that the method of valuation of stock followed by
the assessee has been accepted by the Assessing Officer in A.Y. 2001-02 and
the AO has allowed loss arising on account of diminution in value of stock. The 3 C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . assessee submitted that it has also earned profit on shares invocated by
financial institution and accordingly claimed net loss of ` 12,27,248/-. He
further submitted that the claim of the assessee is supported by the decision
rendered by Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Bank of Baroda
(262 ITR 334) and by Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Uco Bank (240 ITR 355) (SC). Accordingly he submitted that the impugned loss has been claimed
by the assessee in accordance with the method of accounting/method of
valuation regularly followed by the assessee. The Learned AR also submitted
that the loss of ` 36,65 lakhs claimed by the assessee in A.Y. 2002-03 was
disallowed by the Assessing Officer in that year, but the same was allowed by
the learned CIT(A) in the order passed by him on 13.1.2017. 6. On the contrary, learned Departmental Representative submitted that
the appellate order passed by the learned CIT(A) for A.Y. 2002-03 was recent
one and the Revenue has still got time to challenge the decision taken by the
learned CIT(A). He further submitted that the allegation on the group during
security scam is that they have manipulated the price of shares of Global Trust
Bank Ltd. Since the shares prices have been manipulated by the assessee's
group, the impugned loss arising on account of valuation of securities cannot
be considered as genuine loss. Accordingly he submitted that the learned
CIT(A) was justified in confirming the disallowance of loss. 7. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the record. We noticed
that the assessee is following method of valuation of stock at "Cost or Market
value whichever is less. There appears to be no dispute with regard to the fact
that the above said system of valuation of stock has been followed by the
assessee consistently over the years. With regard to the valuation of shares of
Global Trust Bank Ltd., the assessee has attached stock exchange market
quotation as on 31.3.2003 and we noticed that the assessee has valued the
stock at the market rate prevailed on that date. C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . 8. We noticed that the only objection of the Revenue in allowing the claim of
the assessee was that the impugned shares form part of Securities Scam and
hence loss claimed by the assessee cannot be considered to be a genuine loss.
However, we notice that the loss claimed by the assessee was not of trading
transaction, but on account of valuation of stock as per the method of
valuation consistently followed by the assessee. The assessee has also
established that it has valued the shares of Global Trust bank Ltd as per the
closing rate traded in the stock exchange as at the year end. There is no
dispute with regard to the fact that the impugned shares form part of the stock
in trade of the assessee. Even if the shares under consideration formed part of
shares acquired during the stock scam period, yet the fact remains that the
loss claimed by the assessee relates to valuation of closing stock and the loss
has arisen on account of diminution in the value of stock only. Since the
valuation of stock in trade has been done as per the accounting system
followed by the assessee and since the value adopted is supported by stock
exchange quotation, we are of the view that the same cannot be considered as
non-genuine loss. Accordingly we are of the view that the impugned loss
should be allowed while computing the income of the assessee. Accordingly, we
set aside the order passed by the learned CIT(A) and direct the Assessing
Officer to allow the loss of ` 12,27,248/- claimed by the assessee. 9. We shall now take up the appeal filed by the assessee for A.Y. 2005-06.
The first issue urged therein relates to disallowance of Rs.13.70 lakhs arising
out of valuation of shares of Global Trust Bank Ltd, which was held by the
assessee as its stock in trade. Identical issue was considered by us in the
earlier paragraphs while disposing of the appeal relating to AY 2003-04 and for
the reasons discussed therein, we have held that the loss arising due to
valuation of stock in trade on account of diminution in the value of shares
should be allowable as deduction. One more reason given by the AO in this
year is that the assessee did not carry on the business during the year under
consideration, since the license has been cancelled by SEBI. It was brought to 5 C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . our notice that the assessee had challenged the cancellation in SAT and
thereafter before Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Ld A.R submitted that the order
of Hon'ble Supreme Court was received much later to the year under
consideration. He further submitted that an identical issue was considered by
the co-ordinate bench in AY 2007-08 (ITA No.5244/Mum/2011 dated 26-09-
2012) and held that the assessee should be considered to be carrying on
business. In this regard, the co-ordinate bench has followed the decision
rendered by the Tribunal in the case of M/s KNP Securities (P) Ltd (ITA
No.5008 & 5009/Mum/2007), which in turn had relied upon the decision
rendered by Hon'ble Madras High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Vellore Electric
Corporation Ltd (243 ITR 529). Identical view was taken in the assessee's own
case in AY 2002-03 and 2003-04 (ITA No.191/Mum/2008 and ITA
No.1135/Mum/2008 dated 19-11-2010). In AY 2002-03 and 2003-04, it has
been noted down by the Tribunal that the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court has
been received in subsequent years and hence it was held that the business of
the assessee was not closed in those years. 10. We notice that the Ld CIT(A) has discussed the matters relating to
cancellation of registration in paragraph 31 of his order. It is recorded by Ld
CIT(A) that the SEBI has passed the order cancelling the certificate of
registration granted to the assessee on 16-05-2002. The appeal preferred by
the assessee before SAT was dismissed by SAT on 04-05-2007, i.e. after the
end of the financial year relating to AY 2005-06. Hence, consistent with the
view taken by the co-ordinate benches in the assessee's own cases and group
cases referred above , we hold that the loss claimed by the assessee should be
allowed. Accordingly we set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this issue
and direct the AO to allow the impugned loss. 11. The next issue contested by the assessee relates to the assessment of
interest income of Rs.10.32 lahs under the head Income from Other sources as
against the claim of the assessee that the same should be assessed under the
head Income from Business. The Ld CIT(A) has noted in paragraph 8 of his 6 C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . order that the above said interest has been earned out of fixed deposits lying
with BSE, NSE and CSE as security deposit for base minimum capital and for
other requirements of the Exchanges. We notice that an identical issue was
considered by the co-ordinate benches in assessee's own case in AY 2002-03,
2003-04 and 2007-08 (referred supra). Since the assessee was held to be
continuing its business activities and since these deposits have been made in
connection trading activities of the assessee, the co-ordinate benches have
held that the interest income should be treated to incidental business income
and accordingly directed the AO to assess the same as business income of the
assessee. In this regard, the Tribunal has taken support of decision of Hon'ble
Madras High Court rendered in the case of Vellore Electrical Corporation Ltd
(243 ITR 529). By following the decision rendered by the co-ordinate benches
in the assessee's own case, we set aside the order passed by Ld CIT(A) on this
issue and direct the AO to assess the interest income as business income of
the assessee. 12. The next issue contested by the assessee relates to assessment of Prior
period income. We notice that the assessee did not get the interest accrued
details on the deposits held by it from banks and hence did not account for the
same in the respective years. During the year under consideration, the bank
account statement was received and accordingly accounted for entire interest
income under the head "Prior period items". The assessee has also accounted
for certain expenses under the head and the net income was disclosed in the
Profit and Loss account. The assessee also claimed credit for TDS deducted
out of interest income. 13. We heard the parties on this issue. In our view, the interest income
should be in the respective years only, as the AO is not entitled to assess an
item of income which does not belong to that year. Accordingly we direct the
AO to exclude the income of other years and they may be assessed in the
respective years in accordance with law. The TDS credit should also be
restricted to the extent of relevant income assessed during the year under 7 C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . consideration and the remaining amount of TDS should be allowed credit in
the respective years of assessment. The deduction of prior period expenses
may also be considered in the respective years. We order accordingly. The
order of Ld CIT(A) is modified accordingly. 14. The next issue relates to the disallowance of expenses of Rs.8,24,409/-
made by Ld CIT(A). The first appellate authority disallowed the expenditure
claim on the reasoning that the assessee did not carry on any business
activities. In the earlier paragraphs, by following the orders passed by co-
ordinate benches, we have held that the assessee should be considered as
carrying on business activities. Hence the expenditure claimed by the
assessee should be allowed. Accordingly we set aside the order passed by Ld
CIT(A) on this issue. 15. The last issue contested by the assessee relates to the applicability of
Explanation 73 to the assessee. In AY 2002-03 & 2003-04 (supra), the co-
ordinate bench of Tribunal has held that the provisions of Explanation 73
would apply to the assessee in that year, since the interest income was
directed to assessed as business income. In the instant year also, we have
held that the interest income should be assessed as business income.
However, the Ld A.R requested that this matter may be set aside to the file of
the AO for examining the applicability of Explanation 73 to the assessee during
the instant year. Hence the above said provisions would apply to the assessee
as the assessee did not have income from other sources. However, if the
assessee is able to demonstrate before the AO to his satisfaction that the
provisions would not apply to the assessee, the AO may decide the issue in
accordance with the law. C l a ss i c S h a r e & St o c k
 Br o ki n g Se r vi c e s L t d . 16. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is treated as allowed. Order has been pronounced in the Court on 12.4.2017.