1. On 02.05.2006, this Court initiated suomoto proceedings in the matter in following terms: Few days after this on 09.05.06, High Court Bar Association, also instituted writ petition OWP No. 300/06, and pleading that sexual exploitation of girls including minors has been going on in the city at large scale since long with active patronage of influential people, sought indulgence for having the matter dealt with under law. Meanwhile, state Govt. had ordered investigation of the case by CBI which took it over from local police on 11.05.2006; and recommenced the same. 2. On 12.05.2006, the matter came up before a Single Bench of this Court, which while opining that the matter involved public interest sought listing of the matter before a larger bench with following observations: 3. Ultimately the case was listed before this Bench on 15.05.2006, when proceeding were initiated as follows: 4. By 19th of May, CBI had recorded statement of Ah. Hamid in full with part statements of Sabeena and while perusing case diaries furnished for perusal by I.O. instructions were issued for speedy and focused investigation of the case. Developments following were reflected in the interim orders of 19.05.2006, 24.05.2006 and 29.5.2006 as under: 5. Between 25.5.2006 and 6.6.2006, investigating agency recorded another eleven statements of one Jamsheed Khan, manger of Imperial Hotel, Naseer Zarger (charge sheeted) Mohd Yousuf Mir Dy.SP (charge sheeted), Mohd Sultan Sheikh, manager of Hilltop Hotel Gulmarg, one Shamima, Dy SP Ab. Hamid Bhat, Masood Ahmed (Introgation report) Moniba @ Rahila, further statement of Sabeena in three sittings, Gulshan @ Pepsi, and one Naseer Ahmed. 6. On 06.06.2006, Director General of CBI appeared in the court on asking and assured fair investigation of the case, whereupon proceedings continued as follows: 7. By 20.06.2006, CBI had recorded statements of another seven persons, besides disclosure and further statement of Gulshan @ Pepsi. They are Yasmeen/Nancy, lady constable Nelofar, Shafufta, Ayesha Salim of Park View Hotel, one Nissar Ahmed, and Mohd Yousuf Malik the receptionist of the Govt Circuit house, and since the area of investigation was apparently enlarged so to equip CBI with proper authority the following order was passed; Perusal of case dairies would reveal that statements of some witnesses have been recorded and partial steps have been taken in furtherance of the investigation. Some arrests have also been made. The CF3I is directed to proceed with the investigation in light of the statements on record and complete the same expeditiously. They shall be at liberty to conduct the lawful custodial interrogation of any person, substantially accused by any victim of being involved in this occurrence, and report progress in this behalf by the next date of hearing. While going through the files pertaining to FIR No. 5/2004, Police Station, Magam titled " State v. Syed Sajad" and FIR No. 80/2004, Police Station Maharaj Gunj Srinagar titled " State v. Jagbir Singh " we find that these cases need further investigation particularly in view of disclosures made by the girls in the present case, and the apparent links between those and this case. We direct re-investigation of both these cases, and cancel the bail bonds of all accused therein. Since this case is already under investigation with the CBI, these two cases shall also stand assigned to them for further investigation. They shall be at liberty to arrest any of the accused for further custodial interrogation. We reiterate that in case any petition for bail is filed before any subordinate court in this behalf in the present case or in the above two matters i.e, FIR No. 5/2004, Police Station, Magam and FIR No. 80/2004, Police Station Maharaj Gunj, Srinagar, this Court shall be kept informed about the same. In view of the submissions made at the bar, we direct the State to provide sufficient protection/security to the victims, whose statements have been recorded/are likely to be recorded by the CBI. We have also considered the issue relating to the rehabilitation of the victims involved in the present case. We feel that appropriate measures should be taken in this behalf. We therefore, direct the Director, Social Welfare Department Government of J & K, to remain personally present before this Court on the next date of hearing, so that the matter is properly addressed. It was brought to our notice that some persons having information about the episode are willing to give information to the authorities. We direct that in case any person is desirous to disclose any information, which is likely to help the CBI in the process of investigation, he may contact the CBI for the purpose. It is submitted by the Investigating Officer, CBI that the preliminary challan in respect of some of the accused persons is near completion and will be filed before the court of law shortly. In case the challan as such, is filed before the next date fixed in the matter, the CBI shall take all lawful steps to assure safety of witnesses and to prevent unverified allegations from being misused. Mr. Rathore, counsel for the State, informed the court that keeping in view the nature of the case, safety of witnesses and the accused as well as the general convenience, it will be proper to create a temporary Special Court of Sessions for the trial of this case and other connected cases. He submits that the matter is under active consideration of the Government and the Government would come up with a proposal in this behalf very shortly. Mr. Rathore, may inform the court about the progress in this behalf by the next date of hearing. 8. By 23rd of June, 2006, the statements of another six persons namely; Mymoona, Shazia @ Dilli, Shazia @ Azrah, Shamima @ Sonia, Zamruda @ Iqra, and Afroza @ Affa @ Kaki had been recorded in view where of together with perusal of case diaries we found that despite a good amount of materials against certain people no action had been taken whereupon order of 23.06.2006, was passed as under. 1. On previous date after going through case diaries we had observed that the CBI would be at liberty to conduct lawful custodial interrogation of all persons substantially accused by any victims of being involved in the occurrence and had also asked them to take due care regarding safety of the victims/witnesses in case they happen to file preliminary challan in the case and also prevent the unverified allegations/information from being misused in any manner whatsoever. 2. Today while the mater came up, the CBI has produced the case diaries till date where from, it percolates, that some more partial statements have been recorded. Besides that the requisite follow up procedural action in case of arrested persons has been taken. After hearing both sides, and while reiterating the earlier directions passed in the matter, we further direct that the investigating agency shall continue the investigation more speedily and take affective steps in furtherance of investigation including lawful custodial interrogation of all persons substantially accused of being involved in the occurrence. 3. During submissions the petitioners have alleged that involvement of highly placed people from politics, administration and police is perhaps hindering the pace of investigation and reportedly some of them are using their official position to threaten the witnesses/victims. The Investigating.agency requires to take note of that. In the interest of investigation they may also seek shifting of such persons by the competent authority so that they are not in positions to hamper the process of investigation or tamper with the evidence. If required the Court would also examine the advisability of assessing the level of accusations and requisite action in each case and pass appropriate orders. 4. We have also noticed that no action has been taken in cases of Hotels and Places stated to have been used for commission of the occurrence nor has any reason been furnished for that omission. The CBI may, therefore, take all necessary lawful steps in respect of these Hotels and Places and persons associated with them. 5. We are also informed that some of the accused persons arrested by CBI perhaps face difficulty in having the service of counsel for defending them. If that be so, such persons shall be at liberty to seek appropriate legal help, either from concerned court or if necessary from this Court. 6. Perusal of the case diaries also reveal that some of the arrested officers have been lodged in Central Jail, Srinagar. In view of the fact that other inmates of different hues are also lodged in the said Jail, all requisite precautions be taken for assuring safety of the accused persons/officers etc. arrested in connection with this case and lodged in Srinagar Central Jail. Requisite steps for their medi-care may also be taken wherever sought. 7. The Director of Social Welfare department who was summoned under the previous order has been asked to prepare a comprehensive rehabilitation programme for rehabilitation of the victims in the instant case who has undertaken top do the same and furnish the requisite report within one week from now. 8. In connection therewith, however, the Administrative Head of the Psychiatric Disease Hospital, Srinagar is also directed to be present in the court when the mater comes up next to supplement the aforesaid rehabilitation programme from his side. 9. During the period intervening between 23rd of June and 6th of July 2006, the statements of Nissar Bhat, (Driver of Ghulam Ahmed Mir MLA, former minister), Rasikh Mir, SHO, further statement of M.M.Y. Mir Dy. SP, statements of three ladies named Rukhsana, Naseer Ahmed, Nuzhat @ Nuzu, Sonia @ Faroka, and Ulfat @ Saimi were recorded. Accordingly the order of 6.7.2006, was passed as follows: 10. By 17.07.2006, statements of only two more persons namely one Dr. Javed and Nissar Sheikh, came on record, and this Court noticed that the speed of investigation, which as precisely made known to the agency was of essence, had diminished, which necessitated the following order, 1. We have perused the latest case diaries produced by Investigating Officer of CBI in Chambers and retained the set of previous case diaries for further perusal alongwith statements purporting to have been recorded so far. The latest case diaries reveal that no substantial headway has been made in the investigation from where it stood on the previous date, even though scope appears to exist for the same in view of the materials on record. While expressing satisfaction on the quality of investigation conducted so far, we impress upon the investigating agency to notice the sensitivities involved in this case which constitutes a chain of occurrences and the social perspective attending it which becomes more pronounced in view of the involvement of people holding high positions in different spheres. Even presently lack of lawful action against some highly placed persons regarding whom materials exist in case diaries leaves much to be done in the interests of investigation itself. Accordingly while posting the matter for further proceedings, we pass the following directions: 2. We have also perused the reply furnished by Editor, Printer and Publisher of daily Tameel-i-Irshad regarding publication of news item mentioned in the previous order. Orders regarding same would be passed when the matter comes up next.... 11. By 25th July statements of one Shakila and Abida @ Gypsy @ Sahiba @ Saima had been added to the record which necessitated the following order on 25.07.2006; 1. We have perused the set of latest case diaries produced by CBI and heard learned Counsel appearing in the matter. Perusal of case diaries reveals that statements of some more witnesses have been recorded which as per contents are indicative of the involvement of few more persons in the occurrence. The investigating agency has also out lined a follow up plan in terms of materials on record regarding some of the individuals allegedly involved, for prompt follow up action in terms thereof. Accordingly in view of the case diaries and submissions made at bar while reiterating all the previous directions made from time to time, we further pass following directions- i. The Investigating agency shall proceed ahead with the investigating in light of materials on record and intimate action among other things in accordance with the proposed action plan regarding those mentioned therein and others figuring in the statements so far recorded particularly in view of the satisfaction as recorded by the Investigating Officer in certain cases. Further all lawful action be taken in respect of all those found to be substantially involved in the matter. ii. Regarding provision of adequate and secure accommodation for Yasmeena, the minor victim of alleged offence, the Advocate General informs that Government has allotted two rooms in a particular premises for her lodgment. The Investigating Officer concerned is directed to inspect the said premises in company of Registrar Judicial of this Court to assess its feasibility for her lodgment in view of the elements of security, investigation and trial involved in the matter and furnish report when the matter comes up next. In the meanwhile Advocate General may also explore the possibility of lodging her in a more suitable place sufficiently secured and adequate for the purpose in light of aforesaid aspects. iii. The Advocate General has also informed that the High Level Committee constituted for rehabilitation of the victims of occurrence is working out an elaborate rehabilitation plan which includes imparting of sufficient vocational training to them besides financial and other assistance to earn their livelihood honorably. He is directed to furnish a detailed blue print of proposed rehabilitation plan in the Court by next date. iv. ... v. ... vi. The CBI informs that they have registered cases in respect of FIR No. 80/2004 P/S M.R. Gunj and FIR No. 5/2004 of P/S Magam and are about to commence investigation thereof alongwith the investigation going on currently. They are directed to conclude the same with due promptitude. They shall also be at liberty to conduct custodial interrogation of any person found involved in these cases including those currently in custody in connection with other cases. 2. The matter be listed before this Bench at 2.30 0 PM on 31st of July, 2006. On that date the latest diaries alongwith the status report be filed in the Court. Before proceeding ahead it would be appropriate to mention that on 21.7.2006, the CBI formulated a "line of action" which if necessary may be quoted in due course and submitted copy thereof to court assuring that for effective investigation it intends to proceed ahead in accordance with that only. Till 11th of August 2006, however, statements, further statements and disclosures of few more persons namely Nelofar, Shazia @ Azrah, Aijaz, Dy. SP, Farooq Reshi and Abida @ Gypsy @ Saima @ Sahiba were recorded. 12. Despite formulation of action plan however no action concretized which persuaded this Court to pass the following order on 11.8.06; 1. We have perused the latest set of case diaries produced by Investigating Officers and heard learned Counsel. Before adverting to current case diaries, it would be appropriate to recapitulate that right from its registration with the CBI this case is being monitored by this Court for around three months now during which period CBI has arrested as many as 18 persons including two sitting Legislators who have been former Ministers, a DIG of BSF, an IAS officer, a former Additional Advocate General of the State and two Dy. SPs of the State Police, after having been found involved. The CBI has also instituted cases against 14 of them in competent courts of law and currently as revealed from the case diaries the investigation revolves round others about whom incriminating statements are reported have come on record including some persons highly positioned in different echelons of administration which fact requires a more speedy and focused attention by Investigating Agency to pin down the guilty. Conversely, however, during couple of preceding weeks the pace of lawful follow up action, on materials collected during course of investigation appears to have slowed down for which no plausible explanation has been forth coming from the investigating agency. 2. It requires to be understood that alleged involvement of highly placed people in this case recommends an effective and sustained action on basis of materials available on record so that there is no room for the possible misunderstanding that involvement of powerful people is in any manner impeding the course or cause of investigation, which is bound to adversely effect public faith in law enforcing institutions. If any component or functionary of the constitutional machinery acts in contravention of law/norms, he not only brings disgrace to the system but also impairs the credibility of systematic institutions/offices, which can only contribute to subversion of the system as lawfully established. Needless to say that loss of public faith in constitutional machinery and systematic institutions can only breed anarchy which is an antithesis of the rule of law and rule of law, that must prevail at all costs, if the State, the society and system has to survive hardly needs be stressed; thus an onerous responsibility that lies on the shoulders of CBI which is investigating this case, that involves delicate questions touching, the individual human dignity and protection maintenance of lawfully established system and moral fabric of society, efficacy and credibility of administrative institution, and prevention of crime perpetrated and patronized at high level. 3. We, therefore, genuinely expect that the investigating team of CBI would take all the right steps in right direction to conclude this case with reasonable speed and save the agency from being seen as suffering from self imposed inertia. With that, while reiterating all directions passed in the matter from time to time we make the following directions/observations: This order reflected a broad repetition of earlier directions and was challenged by CBI before Hon'ble apex court through an SLP, which was disposed of inter-alia in following terms; ...It goes without saying that for enforcement of the rule of law every one, howsoever big or influential, is equal. In appropriate cases monitoring by a court may be necessary but, at the same time, for honest and independent investigation, it is also necessary to give a free hand to the expert investigators and the question of issuing any direction may be necessary only when it is found that the investigation being conducted is not honest and bonafide.... ...when the High Court directs that the Investigating Officer shall not act on incompetent instruction, it only means instructions from those who are not competent in law to issue such instructions. It does not mean, as is apprehended by the C.B.I., that the instructions of the superior officers in accordance with law are also to be ignored. In sum and substance, the direction in Paragraph (3) read as a whole only means that honest and bonafide investigation should be conducted by all concerned in the investigating agency from the Investigating Officer up to the Director of the C.B.I or any other competent person.... ...Regarding monitoring of the case by the High Court, per se, we find no illegality but how frequently the Investigating Officer should be directed to appear before the High Court so that it can effectively monitor to ensure that legal, proper and bonafide investigation is conducted, is a matter for the High Court to decide on the fact situation. Undoubtedly, while directing the appearance of the Investigating Officer before it, the High Court would take into consideration the reasonableness of the gap period. Meanwhile, by 7th of Sept. 2006, statements/further statements of Shagufta, Gulshan, Gulshan @ Pepsi one Murvat Mir, Hakeem Mohd Yasin, Niyaz Mehmood DIG police, Sheikh Mehmood SP, Ashkoor ward SSP, one Amit Amla and Dr. Pri tipal Singh Goga had been recorded in view whereof while quoting from Hon'ble Apex Court order, the proceeding under order of 7.9.206, continued as follows: I.O. present in person. Investigating Officer produced case diaries which were perused. He has also submitted two lists relating to the status of the investigation in respect of various accused persons. He seeks further time to produce a third list. He may do so on the next date of hearing. The third list however never came and on 3.10.2006 by which date the statements of certain persons from Delhi namely M/s Narayan Ragopalan, Vidya Dalmia, Manog Verma, Arjun Amla, Hena Handa, Prochi Bhasim, Sunil Tandon and Archana Gujral had been recorded along with two locals namely Mohd Yousuf Wani and Zahoor Ahmed Malik, the CBI furnished its final status report. 14. Before proceeding ahead, it may be noticed that throughout around five month long monitoring, through proceedings reflected in the interim orders quoted hereinabove, this Court kept on impressing upon the investigating agency; first, that speed was of essence in the matter because in view of the sensitivities and the possible adverse impact of delay, the investigation and consequential action could not brooke any delay, particularly in view of the frailty of concerned girls coming for ward against all possible odds to depose before CBI and the might of those whom they were implicating the political functionaries and officers of police/civil administration who could try to turn tables on the CBI, which as would be seen later appeared to have partially happened in certain cases; and secondly that all out follow up action in light of incriminating statements which were coming on record be precipitated if necessary by arrest and custodial interrogation of the culprits who if left at large would in all probability try to influence or even coerce the witness girls, who may also get discouraged due to delay in action which did not find any effective response. Both, without casting any aspersion on or attributing anything negative to the agency, we believe that CBI conducted investigations as they perhaps would in a scam involving financial swindling or administrative/white collar crimes, where once the relevant records/materials are seized, all evidence stands preserved. But that was not the position in this case which solely rested on oral evidence of the weakest of people who could easily be tipped, tossed or troubled, even tortured into silence. It was the proverbial fight between the tremering candle flame and the torrential storm. 15. However on 3.10.2006, the S.P of CBI furnished the "final status report" contents whereof may if necessary be noticed later, with concluding portion running as under: Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has also held in Vineet Narain and Ors. v. Union of India and Anr. JT 1996 that the task of monitoring by a Court would end the moment the Charge sheet was filed in respect of a particular investigation and that the ordinary process of law would then take over. Thus in the final analysis CBI informed the court "with utmost respect" that investigation in the matter having concluded it should wind of the proceedings because whatever the conclusions arrived at by I.O., had to be the last word, and in support quoted two judgments of Hon'ble apex court also. Accordingly, before proceeding ahead it would be apt to look for whatever guidance is available from the quoted judgments and while doing so, the final submissions of appearing counsel may also be briefly noticed. The CBI counsel while quoting from aforementioned judgments contended that with completion of investigation the matter comes to an end rendering any further orders/directions by the court un-necessary, in reply whereto the counsel representing Bar Association have submitted that CBI has only conducted a half baked investigation resulting in exoneration of most of the bigwigs involved in the case, and that they had been loudly apprehending it, never duly registered by the agency which necessitated intervention by court. 16. We have heard learned Counsel and gone through around four thousand pages of materials including 18 volumes of case diaries, and considered the matter. Before anything else we may mention that pronouncement of this order in these proceedings got considerably delayed because of the pendency of bail matter in Srinagar and the case against eighteen accused persons in trial court at Chandigarh where it was transferred by Hon'ble Apex Court which were being debated for framing of charge and grant of bail to accused persons. Feeling that our observations and impression as contained in this order might be used to influence the out come of proceedings before the Courts below, we thought it proper to wait till charge stage in the case and proceeding on bail matters is over, which stands done by now. In addition, we expected that after closing investigation the CBI would file report regarding released among surfaced persons before the CJM, Srinagar where they had instituted the case against some of the persons involved; but till date nothing has been reported or brought on record to suggest that the report has been filed. The question that now falls for determination is what next? CBI, has concluded its investigations resulting in institution of cases against eighteen persons currently facing the trial; and abstained from taking any action against others who surfaced during investigation, on the ground that in opinion of the investigation officer as approved by his controlling officers sufficient incriminating materials did not exist against them. Obviously at this stage two possibilities exist. Either we agree with conclusions arrived upon by CBI or do not. If we do then the whole matter comes to a logical end with what stands already done by the CBI. If we do not, then again two ways open up. Either the court concedes that I.O's conclusions legally seal the matter and declaring itself incapable of further action sits calm despite a disagreement to wind up the proceedings, or passes such further orders/directions as appear to be proper, which would naturally involve an appreciation of materials on record. But that exercise can only be undertaken if even after conclusion of investigation the way it stands done, some scope for further examination of the matter is available; and for that in the first place it would be proper to seek guidance from law declared by Hon'ble apex court. To start with the judgments quoted by CBI may be considered first. 17. In " Abhinandan Jha and Ors. v. Dinesh Mishra " and "Roopchand lal and Ors. v. State of Bihar ", reported as ; the common question of law formulated by the Court for its consideration was whether a magistrate could direct the police to submit a charge sheet where after investigation into a cognizable offence it has submitted a final report opining that alleged offences were not made out in view of evidence collected during investigation. The question arose because of a cleavage of opinion expressed by different High Courts, some opining in negative and others in affirmative. For denying existence of such power with magistrate the crux of argument was that it would amount to acknowledge magistrate's power of compelling the investigating agency to form a particular opinion in the matter, while such opinion was required to be formed by I.O., independently and was his sole right; while affirmative opinion rested on the reason that denying the magistrate the power to ask police to file a charge when he contrary to the opinion of 1.0 finds commission of an offence apparent, would directly result in leaving the discretion to institute criminal charge sheets entirely with police rendering the courts powerless even while suspecting commission of offence on perusal of final police report submitted to them. In these circumstances the apex court while discussing different contours of the matter, was pleased to refer to certain observations from a Privy council case (AIR 1945 PC 18) as under: 18. From another privy council case (AIR 1955 SC196) the court quoted the following observation; Investigation usually starts on information relating to the commission of an offence given to an officer in-charge of a police station and recorded under Section 154 of the Code. If from information so received or otherwise, the officer in-charge of the police station has reasons to suspect the commission of an offence, he or some other subordinate officer deputed by him, has to proceed to the spot to investigate the facts and circumstances of the case and if necessary to take measures for the discovery and arrest of the offender. Thus investigation primarily consists in the ascertainment of the facts and includes all the proceedings under the Code for the collection of evidence conducted by a police officer. The cumulative import of these observations appears to be that investigation which means all proceedings conducted by a police officer under Cr.P.C while investigating a case those are aimed at collection of evidence belong to his province in which the magistrates should not interfere because that may result in over lapping of police and magisterial function which should only compliment each other for effective functioning of the criminal justice system. The observations are salutary and binding meant to be observed by magistrates by exercising restraint in interfering with the investigation of a particular case by police. However, proceeding further Hon'ble Supreme Court, observed that; 11...The High Courts, which have held that the Magistrate has no jurisdiction to call upon the police to file a charge-sheet, under such circumstances, have rested their decision on two principles viz., (a) that there is no express provision in the Code empowering a Magistrate to pass such an order; and (b) such a power, in view of the scheme of Chapter XIV, cannot be inferred. On the other hand, the High Courts which have recognized such a power, rest their decision again on two grounds viz., (a) when a report is submitted by the police, after investigation, the Magistrate has to deal with it judicially, which will mean that when the report is not accepted, the Magistrate can give suitable directions to the police; and (b) the Magistrate is given supervision over the conduct of investigation by the police, and therefore, such a power can be recognized in the Magistrate. 12...Though it may be that a report submitted by the police may have to be dealt with judicially, by a Magistrate, and although the Magistrate may have certain supervisory powers, nevertheless, we are not inclined to agree with the further view that from these considerations alone it can be said that when the police submit a report that no case has been made out for sending up an accused for trial, it is open to the Magistrate to direct the police to file a charge-sheet. But, we may make it clear, that this is not to say that the Magistrate is absolutely powerless, because, as will be indicated later, it is open to him to take cognizance of an offence and proceed, according to law.... Under these observations Hon'ble apex court while negating the opinion that magistrates could ask the police even against their final opinion to bring a charge sheet against the accused, opined that nonetheless they could take cognizance of the offence they felt was committed in view of the contents of police report which did not in I.O's opinion incriminate the accused. Thus the important element of these observations appears to be that under inherent power of magistrates to take cognizance of offences, which the Code of Criminal Procedure expressly vests in him to assure that none committing a crime goes un pushed, is saved even in cases where a magistrate can't order production of a charge sheet against the opinion of I.O. By implication saving this power to the magistrate renders non-institution of charge sheet redundant, because in any case the objective of assuring that all offenders are brought to book is somehow achieved. However, taking the discussion ahead the court further opined as under: The Hon'ble Court then cut out the following role for itself. 4. In this proceeding we are not concerned with the merits of the accusations or the individuals alleged to be involved, but only with the performance of the legal duty by the government agencies to fairly, properly and fully investigate into every such accusation against every person, and to take the logical final action in accordance with law. Determining the contours of its indulgence Hon'ble court observed that, 5. In case of persons against whom a prima facie case is made out and a charge-sheet is filed in the competent court, it is that court which will then deal with that case on merits, in accordance with law. 6. However, if in respect of any such person the final report after full investigations is that no prima facie case is made out to proceed further, so that the case must be closed against him, that report must be promptly submitted to this Court for its satisfaction that the authorities concerned have not failed to perform their legal obligations and have reasonably come to such conclusion. No such report having been submitted by the CBI or any other agency till now in This Court, action on such a report by this Court would be considered, if and when that occasion arises. We also direct that no settlement should be arrived at nor any offence compounded by any authority without prior leave of this Court.... and then proceeded ahead to pass further requisite directions. In terms of the judgment therefore, the sole purpose of monitoring has to be the assurance of an effective, impartial and honest investigation by concerned agency in discharge of its legal obligations irrespective of the placement or position of victims or culprits; during which requisite directions can be issued for that purpose. At the close however, while the cases of those incriminated by police are to left to face process of law before the trial court, regarding other who might have been left out the courts can take a view and pass appropriate orders in given circumstances of the matter. Reading this judgment together with the earlier judgments quoted, the conclusion appears to be that in monitoring proceedings, this Court, if not satisfied by the performance of statutory duty by CBI in bringing to account those who in view of materials available could not have been left out, can take a view and pass appropriate orders, to have such materials assessed at competent magisterial level for lawfull action. 20. With that the stage appears to be ripe for considering the conclusions arrived at by I.O in cases of persons left out with a view to assess whether or not it does amount to discharge of his lawful duties and to decide upon the requisite course of action. But before that it would be apt to notice the prescribed contours of an I.O's functioning exercise of power and discharge of duties in terms of the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure . The whole gamut of an I.O's activity as is well known is confined to investigations into allegations of commission of an offence and committal of accused persons before a competent Criminal Court to face the trial, or filing of a final repot under Section 173 Cr.P.C. After receipt of a report regarding commission of an offence the I.O in non-cognizable cases with permission of the magistrate, and in cognizable cases without such permissions has to undertake and commence investigation which means collection of evidence during which he is authorized to require attendance of witnesses and after examination record their statements without however pressing for their signature thereupon or offering them any inducement and after conclusion either release the accused if evidence against him is found to be deficient or institute a case against him before the competent magistrate if the evidence so collected is sufficient. Both these situations are covered by Sections 169 and 170 of the Code, as follows: In case of releasing the accused for want of sufficient evidence the I.O is required to file a final report after conclusion of investigation before the magistrate under Section 173 of the Code, which runs as under: Thus in the final analysis according to above quoted provisions the sufficiency/deficiency of evidence or availability/non-availability of reasonable ground(s) of suspicion determine the fate of case with reference to a particular accused as also his involvement. In case of sufficiency of evidence/availability of reasonable grounds of suspicion he/she is to be committed to competent magistrate for trial, and otherwise released. The key expressions being "sufficiency/deficiency of evidence" and "reasonable grounds to suspect", the I.0 is only required to satisfy himself whether or not the evidence on record is sufficient to bring the accused before competent court. Clearly therefore, the sufficiency of evidence at this stage will have to be assessed with a view as to whether the evidence on record is sufficient enough to reasonably send a person accused of commission of the offence alleged against him to the court, which in other words would mean whether the materials on record do point the finger of accusation towards the accused person by containing such allegations as in given circumstances of the case may incriminate him. It would be apt to notice that the satisfaction of I.O., for the purpose of laying a formal accusation against a person alleged of having committed an offence by institution of a case shall have to be uniform and in conformity with settled legal principles and not only guided by the personal opinion or subjective perception of the I.0; because if that be so, that will certainly lead to multiplicity of standards bound to dilute efficacy and accuracy of police power by subjecting its exercise to individual assessments. As a matter of fact the expressions "sufficiency of evidence/availability of reasonable grounds" for taking requisite procedural action is relevant at almost all stages of a criminal proceeding/investigation/enquiry or trial, right from registration of a case to committing the accused for trial, taking cognizance, framing charge and the final verdict and for all stages the standard of the sufficiency or deficiency of evidence is well set even while the level of scrutiny varies with the varying requirement of each stage. So in any case the concerned I.O., can't take an insolated view independent of settled principles to commit the accused for trial or release them, much less set a different standard for him by speculating about the out come of trial on materials collected by him and assess their sufficiency accordingly. 21. In addition, during the process of satisfying himself about sufficiency of incriminating materials available on record against an accused person that would render him liable to be committed to a Criminal Court for facing proceedings the I.O would naturally look for corroborative materials if the direct evidence does not appear to him to be sufficient to commit the accused. It may be in place to observe that material or evidence corroborative of a fact would be that which by itself does not directly or independently prove the fact, but suggests existence of some other fact or circumstance which supports existence of the fact indicated by other part of evidence directly, or strengthen the belief of its existence. It would therefore appear to be safe to assume that level of corroboration too at this stage has only to be of the level of sufficiency of materials. Moreover the corroborative nature of a material has got to be assessed in backdrop of the general texture of a case and not in isolation. Thus where a piece of evidence indicates something directly, looking for corroboration, particularly at the stage of investigation may be an unnecessary stretch, more so, in cases pertaining to offences against women, their chastity, modesty or decency. Hon'ble apex Court has more than once been pleased to stress that even at the level of trial when sole statement of a victim implicates the accused and circumstances of the case render it believable, no corroboration would be required to hold the accused person guilty. If that can be the case at trial level, it has to be so, with greater force at the concluding stage of investigation, when concerned I.O has only to formulate an opinion whether or not to commit the accused to a Court/magistrate for facing the proceedings. The conclusion, therefore, is that in cases pertaining to offences against women, if the victims statement in over all circumstances of the case appears to reflect a reasonable presumption or suspicion of the commission of offence by the alleged accused, no corroboration needs be looked for by the I.O for committing him to the Court; and if any appears to be required the same needs not support the victims statement directly but would be enough if it indicates, shows or suggests existence of any other fact or circumstances to support the individual statement of the victim in which case it would be enough for the purpose of committing the accused to the court of law. This part of the discussion, I may record, has been necessitated because during course of monitoring I felt that instead of satisfying itself regarding sufficiency of materials and corroboration at the requisite level, the CBI has been trying to raise it to the level of conviction stage according to its own understanding or perceptions of the possible outcome of trial, which perhaps resulted in some sort of a self imposed passivity in bringing all involved to the book. This type of forecast about conclusion of the trial by investigating agency is neither required nor desirable because besides being beyond their province, in essence it is only limited to an assessment of the matter only on statements of witnesses as available with them, while according to well settled principles there is nothing to forbid the trial Court from recording statements of those also who were never examined during investigation. Reference in this behalf, if at all required may be made to following reported cases. In " Jhagru Tewari v. State of West Bangal " reported as AIR 1959 Cat. 177; it was said,
 

Para 8...While the law no doubt requires that the report of the police officer submitted under Section 173 should include the names of the persons who are acquainted with the circumstances of the case and also requires that the statements recorded under Sub- section 3 of Section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses should be furnished to the accused, I can find nothing in the law that prevents the prosecution from producing or the court from examining, as a witnesses in the case, a person whose name has not been included in the report made or whose statement has not been furnished. This view appears to have been taken in a decision of this Court in Criminal Revn. No. 640 of 1956 to which I was a party. In another judgment " State v. Jagadish Pandey " reported as AIR 1958 Cat. 31; the view taken was as under: 22. That said, now let me advert to the records of the case to assess whether or not the investigating agency has acted aptly in the matter by letting of some incriminated persons. The question, therefore, would be whether or not the records reveal discharge of their statutory duty by CBI in effectively investigating the case in hand which doubtless involves important and sensitive questions touching the social/moral fabric and reputation of administrative and other institutions. It may be recalled that the whole story started with publication of such stuff in local/national press as suggested exploitation of hapless young girls at the hand of influential people at the helm in different spheres of society which was taken cognizance of by this Court as already said, followed by the Bar Association through their writ petition whereafter this Court decided to monitor the investigation and passed speaking directions from time to time to CBI to whom the case was handed over; who filed their ultimate report in the court on 03.10.2006 giving the final status of the case, according to which out of all persons surfacing during course of interrogation eighteen were arrested, while regarding others the I.O concluded that some among them could not be identified by concerned girls during Test Identification Parades, and against others sufficient materials in his opinion did not exist to warrant their arrest or institution of cases against them. Those against whom cases have been instituted need not be discussed any further because the trial Court is all competent to deal with them. The area of reference therefore, gets restricted to those only against whom no action has been taken. These include seven persons who have been subjected to identification parade but not identified by concerned girls, who as such need not be mentioned. Others nominated by victim girls, who's identity was not in dispute but regarding whom despite availability of materials no action has been taken for mentioned reasons are; Sh. Ashkoor Wani SSP, nominated by two girls and the main accused Sabina who has been let off because of certain reported contradictions and later withdrawal of statement by concerned girl. One Javed Shah a deceased MLC who has died prior to commencement of investigation. Sh. Niaz Mehmood DIG, and Sheikh Mehmood SP left out because of reported contradictions in statement of concerned girl(s) and other discrepancies. Dr. Pritpal Singh Goga released because of reported withdrawal of statement by the girl & Amit Amla not roped in reportedly because the concerned girl failed to point out the house of his friend where he was alleged to have had sex with her. Another set of persons against whom no action has been taken comprises of those who have been nominated by the main accused Sabeena of having sex with the girls who were sought by or sent to them against whom no action has been taken despite apparently available materials include Sh. Raj Tickoo, Vigilance Commissioner at the relevant time, Sh. Mansoor Ahmed SP, Sh. Mohd Yousuf Khan, Ex-Chairman J & K Bank, Raja Mohiud din Journalist, Sh. Gh. Hassan Khan, MLA, Sh. Hakim Mohd Yasen, a Cabinet minister, Sh. Yogesh Saini MLA, an unknown commissioner of the Govt, described by the victim girl as "Gora Chitta Commissioner" who had sex with her in an official hut at Chashme Shahi, Srinagar. It is regarding these persons only, that the I.O's opinion regarding deficiency of evidence for letting thern off has to be securitized. In addition, are the persons who allegedly arranged girls for some of them who would be discussed later, alongwith others though initially proceeded against but let off later. They are Sh. Zahoor Ahmed Malik, Sh. Nissar Ahmed Sheikh, Sh. Manzoor Naik a Retd. S.P Jitender Misri, and one Vijay Kumar who would be dealt with separately. Broadly speaking in all these case the I.O's opinion regarding deficiency of evidence to implicate them is attributable to three main reasons. First, non availability of the victim girls, secondly, lack of corroborative materials, and thirdly, second thoughts of victim girls whereunder they charged their earlier statements. Regarding first and second categories I feel that non availability of victim girls would perhaps ipsofacto not undo the otherwise implicating materials, and corroboration where the principal material was clear and cogent would only be an additional material, lack whereof could not dilute the content of main statement. Regarding third relating to charge of statements by some of victim girls in some cases much after their earlier statements should have been viewed with circumspection and not given over riding effect against the first statements recorded before high ranking judicial officers. In any case, perhaps nobody, including the I.O., could safely predict/assume as to which of the statements the girls would own in their testimonies before trial court. 23. That takes me to the records perused which as already said comprised of case diaries, status reports, and other materials furnished by CBI during proceedings for an assessment as to whether or not the investigation came to right conclusions on available materials in discharge of their statutory duties. As the outset I may record that I am not making use of the CD files or statements recorded by CBI for implicating the persons mentioned or washing off of their involvement but only to assess the admissibility of conclusions resulting in releasing them from liability, because for coming to these conclusions the I.O has relied upon them only. Otherwise also, statements recorded by police and produced before a court do no more remain their exclusive property, but can be made use of to confirm or contradict opinions expressed on their strength. For further understanding and clarification of the scope of using these materials support may be derived from reported cases, wherein use of case diaries in circumstances identical with instant case has been held to be permissible. In " A.K. Roy v. State " reported as , the court while considering the question observed that,
 

(109)... (iii) For the purpose of deciding whether cognizance of an offence should be taken, the Magistrate can look into the materials contained in the c case diary and obtained during investigation, including statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., but he cannot take cognizance and issue process against the accused on the materials contained in the case diary alone, unless facts contained in the report under Section 173 constitute an offence. In so far as the use of case diaries in writ proceedings is concerned the judgment of Hon'ble apex court in " Khatri v. State of Bihar " reported as , covers the matter directly. Here is what was laid down. 3. Before we refer to the provisions of Section 162 and 172 of the Criminal Procedure Code, it would be convenient to set out briefly a few relevant provisions of that Code. Section 2 is the definition section and Clause (g) of that section defines "Inquiry" to mean "every inquiry. Other than a trial conducted under this Code by a Magistrate or Court". Clause (h) of Section 2 gives the definition of 'investigation' and it says that investigation includes "all the proceedings under this Code for the collection of evidence conducted by a police officer or by any person (other than a Magistrate) who is authorized by a Magistrate in this behalf. Section 4 provides: 4. (1) All offences under the Indian Penal Code shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the provisions hereinafter contained. (2) All offences under any law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with according to the same provisions, but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner of place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences. It is apparent from this section that the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code are applicable where an offence under the Indian Penal Code of under any other law is being investigated. Inquired into, tried or otherwise dealt with. Then we come straight to Section 162 which occurs in Chap. XII dealing with the powers of the Police to investigate into offences. That section, so far as material, reads as under: It bars the use of any statement made before a police officer in the course of an investigation under Chap. XII, whether recorded in a police diary or otherwise, but by the express terms of the section, this bar is applicable only where such statement is sought to be used 'at any inquiry or trial in respect of any offence under investigation at the time when such statement was made'. If the statement made before a police officer in the course of an investigation under Chap. XII is sought to be used in any proceeding other than an inquiry or trial or even at an inquiry or trial but in respect of an offence other than that which was under investigation at the time when such statement was made, the bar of Section 162 would not be attracted. This section has been enacted for the benefit of the accused, as pointed out by this Court in Tehsildar Singh v. State of U.P. . it is intended "to protect the accused against the user of statements of witnesses made before the police during investigation, at the trial presumably on the assumption that the said statements were not made under circumstances inspiring confidence". This Court, in Tahsildar Singh 's case approved the following observations of Braund, J. in Emperor v. Aftab Mohd Khan : 5. The object of Section 172 in providing for maintenance of a diary of his proceedings by the police officer making an investigation under Chap XII has been admirably stated by Edge, C.J in Queen-Empress v. Mannu (1897) ILR 19 All 390 in the following words. The early stages of the investigation which follows on the commission of a crime must necessarily in the vast majority of cases be left to the police, and until the honesty, the capacity, the discretion and the judgment of the police can be thoroughly trusted, it is necessary, for the protection of the public against criminals, for the vindication of the law and for the protection of those who are charged with having committed a criminal offence that the Magistrate or Judge before whom the case is for investigation or for trial should have the means of ascertaining what was the information, true, false, or misleading which was obtained from day to day by the police officer who was investigating the case and what were the lines of investigation upon which such police officer acted. The Criminal Court holding an inquiry of trial of a case is therefore empowered by Sub-section (2) of Section 172 to send for the police diary of the case and the Criminal Court can use such diary, not as evidence in the case, but to aid it in such inquiry or trial. But, by reason of Sub-section (3) of Section 172, merely because the case diary is referred to by the Criminal Court, neither the accused nor his agents are entitled to call for such diary nor are they entitled to see it. If however the case diary is used by the police officer who has made it to refresh his memory or if the Criminal Court uses it for the purpose of contradicting such police officer in the inquiry or trial, the provisions of Section 161 or Section 145 , as the case may be, of the Indian Evidence Act would apply; and the accused would be entitled to see the particular entry in the case diary which has been referred to for either of these purposes and so much of the diary as in the opinion of the Court is necessary to a full understanding of the particular entry so used. It will thus be seen that the bar against production and use of case diary enacted in Section 172 is intended to operate only in an inquiry or trial for an offence and even this bar is a limited bar, because in an inquiry or trial, the bar does not operate if the case diary is used by the police officer for refreshing his memory or the Criminal Court uses it for the purpose of contradicting such police officer. This bar can obviously have no application where a case diary is sought to be produced and used in evidence in a civil proceeding or in a proceeding under Article 32 or 226 of the Constitution and particularly when the party calling for the case diary is neither an accused no his agent in respect of the offence to which the case diary relates. Now plainly and unquestionably the present writ petition which ahs been field under Article 32 of the Constitution to enforce the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 is neither an 'inquiry nor a 'trial' for an offence nor is this Court hearing the writ petition a Criminal Court nor are the petitioners, accused or their agents so far as the offences arising out of their blinding are concerned. Therefore, even if the report submitted by Shri L.V. Singh as a result of his investigation could be said to form part of 'case diary', it is difficult to see how their production and use in the present writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution could be said to be barred under Section 172. 24. Similar is the case with use of statements recorded by police during investigation. In that behalf a few reported cases may be noticed. In "Rahunandan v. State" reported as the Hon'ble court observed,
 

We are inclined to accept the argument of the appellant that the language of Section 162 Criminal Procedure Code, though wide, is not explicit or specific enough to extend the prohibition to the use of the wide and special powers of the Court to question a witness, expressly and explicitly given by Section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act in order to secure the ends of justice. We think that a narrow and restrictive construction put upon the prohibition in Section 162 Criminal Procedure Code, so as to confine the ambit of it to the use of statements by witnesses by parties only to a proceeding before the Court, would reconcile or harmonize the two provisions considered by us and also serve the ends of justice. Therefore, we hold that Section 162 , Criminal Procedure Code does not impair the special powers of the Court under Section 165 , Indian Evidence Act. Consequently, we think that the Trial Court could and should have itself made use of the statement made by Jailal during the course of the investigation. If that had been done, it is possible that it may have affected appraisal of evidence of other prosecution witnesses. Connotation of the view taken thus appears to be that use of statements made before police in a proceeding of this type is not barred. Accordingly, we may proceed to assess each of the cases in view of materials available as aforesaid. I. Sh. Ashkoor Wani SSP: The first statement implicating him is that of 'Gulshan' @ Pepsi, recorded on 3.6.2006, and repeated on 10.06.2006, during her further statement in presence of Sh. Ab. Wahid, District & Sessions Judge as follows: (1) Any police officer making an investigation under this Chapter or any police officer not below such rank [the Government] may by general or special order, prescribe in this behalf, acting on the requisition of such officer may examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case. (2) Sub person shall be bound to answer all questions relating to such case put to him by such officer, other than questions the answers to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture. (3) The police officer may reduce into writing any statement made to him in the course of an examination under this section, and if he does so, he shall make a separate record of the statement, or each such person whose statement he records. In terms of the section itself thus, a person alleged of involvement in alleged acts under examination is not bound to answer the questions, answers to which could expose him to a Criminal charge. However, assuming that there was some logic in recording the statements, let us notice what the officers have stated. Sh. Niaz while referring to Neeloufer states that,
 Regarding lady named Neeloufer, I have to state that, when I was SSP, PCR, Srinagar, a lady whom I called Mauji-Mauji (mother), whose name and address I don't know, came to me alongwith two ladies. One of them had an affair with some militant. That militant later turned to some other girl. Therefore she wanted to teach him a lesson and hence they had come to me to give some information about that militant. Of these ladies two one was named Neeloufer but do not know the same of the other lady. I don't remember whether Neeloufer had the affair with the said militant or the other lady accompanying her was having the affair with him. I passed on this information relating to the Militant to the then DGP, J & K for necessary action. Again second time Neeloufer had come to my house in Jammu, with two unknown ladies. At that time painting work was going on at my house. Neeloufer told me that her husband was in police and now he had left her. She wanted to join Police force. I gave her a recommendation letter addressed to the then SSP, Mr. Raza Ejaj, Srinagar. When I joined as SSP Srinagar in May 1999, 3-4- ladies came to my house to congratulate me and offered sweets. One of those women was the same Neeloufer mentioned above. Thereafter I neither heard of her nor had seen or met her. I further state that I do not have any house at Channi area of Jammu. Regarding sexual exploitation of any girl or woman including Neeloufer, I state that, I never indulged in such type of activity. I am a god fearing person, I have worked against militancy continuously and had been involved in many anti-militancy operations. There are various people who are against me because of this. Such false allegations are made against me to spoil my image/malign my character, and put me in trouble. And this is what Sh. Sheikh Mehmood has stated in the matter,- I further state that during my posting in Srinagar as SP operations from December 2001 to January 20031 was residing in Shivpora, Sova niwas. This was the official building and permanent residence of SP Operations in Srinagar.Regarding Shri Javed Ahmad, MLC, I am to state that when I was Dy. SP in Jammu I was due for promotion. It was subsequently cleared by the DPC but was kept in sealed cover. Due to my excellent record, Mr. Javed Ahmad who was then sitting MLC, raised questions in the assembly and helped me in the matter. In fact his house was also very near to my official residence, around 1/2 kilometer distance. In due course we developed close acquaintance and he helped me a lot in providing sources and a lost of relevant information which he had access to on account of his good in-depth relations. I have never called Neeloufer to the residence of Shri Javed Ahmad, MLC in Shivpora, nor did I ever take her to that residence. The allegation of sexually exploiting her by me is totally false. I state that I know Neeloufer as the wife of ne my staff members Shri Abdul Qayoom Mirza, ASI in SOG. I remember that around February 2002, Abdul Qayoom Mirza had come to my office with his wife Neeloufer. At that time Neeloufer complained to me against her husband and requested me to make him understand not to crate problems and to live peacefully. Accordingly, I advised both of them to live in harmony and peacefully. At that time Mr. Billoria, Inspector and Mr. Gupta, Inspector (who is now in Governor's security) were also present along with some more persons whose names I don't remember. In fact I never called Neeloufer to my residence regarding any matter. About 6 years back I was posted at Jammu as SP operations with dual charge of SP Headquarter, Jammu and during that period I was living in Jammu. Regarding sexual exploitation of any girl or woman including Neeloufer, I state that I never indulged in any such immoral activity. I have worked a lot against militancy and was given the charge of SOG (Special Operations Group) 3 times. Moreover I am a ranker and have become an SP from the rank of Sub-Inspector. I have received several medals and awards and also out of turn promotions twice as mentioned earlier. Because of these reasons there might be some people who want to see me in trouble. Therefore, such false allegations are being made against me. There is nothing on record however to suggest whether or not the I.O did find any corroborative value in concerned lady's knowledge of the residences of these officers, her meetings with them, and the circumstances like employment of her brother by Sh. Niaz and her reliance on Sh. Mehmood for resolving her matrimonial dispute nor is there anything to indicate, why, if the above quoted lady constable could be believed in her allegations against Sh. Raman Matto, could the part of her statement pertaining to aforesaid officers not be given credence, particularly in absence of anything expressly to the contrary. III. Dr. Prit pal Singh Goga : This person was accused by one Shagufta of having sex with her, but has been let of on the reported ground that the girl later resiled from her statement, and the later version was corroborated by documents. Accordingly, it would be apt to notice the relevant part of the statement of concerned girl, recorded on 10.06.2006, in presence of Sh. Abdul Wahid District & Sessions Judge; After having intercourse with Bashir, I as well as Sabeena was sitting in the room of Bashir when one person came there and Bashir introduced him with me as Dr. Prit Pal Singh Goga. Dr. Goga told me that he was running a clinic in the Hotel Peak View and invited me to visit his clinic for treatment etc. I had some weakness and therefore, after some days I went to the clinic of Dr. Prit pal Singh in Hotel Peak View. Dr. Goga took me inside the small room of his clinic where he had intercourse with me. He gave me Rs. 400/- and some medicines. I can identify the room of the clinic as well as Dr. Prit Pal Singh Goga. Dr. Goga gave his address and telephone number of his house at Indira Nagar and asked me to come there. After some days, I visited the residence of Dr. Goga at Indira Nagar. He introduced me with one person disclosing his name as K.C Padhi, DIG, BSF, Srinagar, working at Pantha Chowk. Mr. Padhi took my residential phone number and thereafter, he started talking with me over phone. One day he invited me to Pantha Chowk to visit his house. I hired an auto and went to Pantha Chowk where one white gypsy sent by the DIG was waiting for me outside the main gate
 

Sh. Padhi, mentioned in the statement stands already charge sheeted. This was followed by her further statement dated 19.08.2006, recorded in presence of one J.D. Sofi, Div. Manager of BSNL, wherein she offered to identify the house boat where one Murwat, an official of DC office Srinagar had sex with her. Before that however, as shown by the I.O's "further line of action" dated 21.07.2006 she had already identified the room of Peak view hotel where Dr. Goga, was alleged to have had illicit sex with her, whereupon the I.O in his above-said document proposed his arrest and test identification parade after obtaining legal opinion regarding his involvement in the offence, and establishing link of the place with said Dr, Goga. Meanwhile, this Court continued to stress concrete action against all found involved, however without any tangible result, whereupon the order of 11.8.06, as already quoted was passed to impress upon CBI the need of speed in investigation to take it to a logical end. As already said that order was challenged by them before Hon'ble apex Court. However weeks thereafter on 2.8.2006, the concerned girl Shagufta, is stated to have expressed her desire to change her earlier statement regarding Dr. Goga, during which she stated that due to some grudge emanating from personal reasons she had deposed against him; and that is how the CBI exonerated him on the ground that Shagufta, denied the allegations later. There is nothing on record to explain the lack of requisite action from 10.06.2006 when Shagufta, first made the statement till 2.8.2006, for around seven weeks. Without meaning anything adverse to CBI, one feels that the apprehension of petitioner Bar association regarding pressure being brought upon the girls who had come forth to make statements by concerned quarters, does not appear to have been wholly groundless. However, after recoding Shagufta's second statement, the CBI recorded the statement of Dr. Goga, Under Section 161 Cr.P.C., wherein among other things he deposed that; The clinic by the name of 'Hakeem Balwant Singh & Dr. Prit Pal Singh Goga' is being run in a room oi the Neelam Hotel (now Hotel Peak View) since 1967. Now, I have vacated the room of the hotel and running the same in my residence at Indira Nagar Srinagar. I have left the clinic due to Militant's attach twice there. There was a single room and no extra space. Six chairs for visitors, one big table, a chair for myself, one alimirah for keeping medicines, a TV and a small bed for checking the patients were there in the room. Since, 2004, there were two persons for assisting me and before that there was only one compounder, named Mohd Shafi. My assistance used to sit with me as he was translating Kashmiri into Hindi or Urdu for me as well as he was giving medicines.... On being asked about one Sabeena R/o Srinagar, I state that I don't know her. However, I heard her name through newspapers, being kingpin of prostitution racket. My name has never been published in any newspapers. I earlier knew one Bashir who was SHO of PS Mysoma. He was posted there long back, but he was not posted there in the year 2004. He used to come to the hotel as there was militant's attack in the hotel. During his visits, I came in contact with him and used to have formal talks. I am not aware about his present posting. It is incorrect to suggest that I allowed said Bashir to have sexual intercourse in my clinic with a girl named Ms. Shagufta. I know one girl named Shugu whose name may be Shagufta. I further state that it is not possible to do this illegal act in my clinic as my assistant always used to be present there and the clinic room was also kept opened all the time. My clinic used to remain opened from 09.00 am to 06.00 pm daily. In my absence, my brother Mr. Kanwar Pal Singh used to be there look after the clinic. It is also incorrect to allege that I had sexual intercourse with Ms. Shagufta @ Shugu or I had taken her to my residence at Indira Nagar and also provided her my address and telephone number of my house. It is also incorrect to say that I had introduced said Shagufta to Mr. KC Padhi, the DIG of BSF, at my residence at Srinagar. In this context, I further state that Mr. Shafi aged 55-60 years R/o Srinagar worked with me as my assistant for 3-4 years till 2004. Shafi used to take medicine for his all family members. One day Mr. Shafi told me that his niece Ms Shugu had common cold for a long period and asked for her treatment. He brought said Shugu at my clinic and after her check-up, I gave her medicine. Treatment went on for 2-3 months and Ms. Shugu used to visit my clinic in every 15-20 days. She was suffering from Synus (cold). During one of her visits, Mr. KC Padhi was also sitting with me at my clinic. She asked for monetary help as her husband was admitted in Saurabh Medical Institute and she needed money for his treatment. Since Sh. Padhi was present there, I requested Mr. Padhi to help Ms Shugu from the BSF fund available for poor people. Mr. Padhi assured that he will provide his help to the girl. They also exchanged their phone numbers. Thereafter, I do not know whether they were in contact with each other. I further state that in the year 2004 itself, I came to know that Mr. Shafi used to steal some medicines from any almirah and used to sell them without my knowledge. Some patients complained to me about Mr. Shaft's activities and then on questioning, he confessed before me that he made a mistake and apologized for the aforesaid act. I had documented the same in the presence of witnesses which I will produce later on before you as the same is available in Srinagar. I further state that I removed him from my office for this act. Thereafter, Shugu came to my clinic and asked me to reinstate Mr. Shafi which I denied. For this Shagufta got annoyed with me and left my clinic after a hot discussion with me. I think that this was the reason for which Shugu @ Shagufta dragged me in sex scandal. On being asked I state that I came to know Mr. KC Padhi, DiG BSF, during militant's (fidayeen) attach which took place in Hotel Peak View. Sh. KC Padhi and other BSF staff brought me out safely from the hotel room and since then I knew Mr. KC Padhi. Mr. KC Padhi used to visit my residence also. Most of the BSF people knew me as I am working at Srinagar for many years 
 

I further state that 1 have received two letters, one by post and one through a newspaper vendor, vide which I have been threatened to leave Kashmir otherwise I would be killed. This is the militant's threat given by Al Mansurian written in Urdu. I further state that I am a patient of angina, diabetes, lever cerosis, hyper tension and sexual weakness. I will provide the concerned medical papers later on. His further statement was recorded on 11.09.2006 wherein among other things he sated that,- Thereafter I removed Md. Shafi from the service. After 4-5 days of this incident the neice of Md. Shafi namely, Shaugufta @ Shugu, came to me and asked me to give one opportunity to her Uncle Md. Shafi and to reinstate him. However, I did not agree for the same. At this, Shugu threatened me for facing dire consequences. It is not clear from records whether or not the CBI tried to assess the circumstantial relevance of Sh. Padhi's intimacy with Dr. Goga, location of his clinic in Peak View Hotel where his room was identified by Shagufta earlier, and, his acquaintance with her, and the reliance that was placed by CBI on other parts of her statement relating to Sh. Padhi's sexual connection with her, along with Yasmeena and her depositions about Sabeena. IV. Sh. Amit Amla: This person is a partner of Broadway Hotel Srinagar, and has been accused by one Shazia @ Azrah of having illicit sex with her. No action has been taken in his case, for the reason that the girl allegedly failed to identify/point out the house where the occurrence allegedly took place. Here is what she has said regarding him on 11.06.2006, in presence of Sh. Ab. Wahid, District Judge: (1) Any person who.- (a) Procures of attempts to procure a [person], whether with or without his consent, for the purpose of prostitution; or (b) Induces a [person] to got from any place, with the intent that he, may for the purpose of prostitution become the inmate of or frequent, a brothel; or (c) Takes or attempts to take a [person] or causes a [person] to be taken, from one place to another with a view to his carrying on or being brought up to carry on prostitution; or (d) Causes or induces a [person] to carry on prostitution; Shall be punishable on conviction with rigorous imprisonment for a term of not less than three years and not more than seven years and also with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, and if any offence under this sub section is committed against the will of any person, the punishment of imprisonment for a term of seven years shall extend to imprisonment for a term of fourteen years: while proceeding ahead the observation of I.O., made regarding this person in the "line of action" submitted on 21.07.06 may also be reproduced which is this,- 2. Nissar Ahmed Sheikh (He was PRO of Raman Mattoo. He ahs also been identified by the victim girl. Nissar Ahmad Sheikh stated that he nad picked up several ladies from different places and brought to the esidence of the Minister at his instance. Sh. Raman Mattoo during his interrogation stated that it was Nisar Ahmed Sheikh who was close to Sabeena and used to arrange girls for him. As reported this person has been left out. XIV. Sh. Manzoor Naik: This person has been working on personal staff of Sh. G.A. Mir former minister, and figures in many statements alleging procurement of girls by him for illicit sex. To start with the relevant portion of the statement of Sabeena recorded on 31.05.06, may be quoted thus,- Manzoor Naik S/o Gulam Ahmed Mir, know me. Manzoor Naik met me in a restaurant and asked me to arrange a good looking girl for the Minister Ghulam Ahmed Mir. Accordingly, I took Gypsy Sabina @ Saima along with Manzoor Naik to the residence of Gh. Ahmed Mir but he did not like the girl. There after I took Gulshan @ Pepsi to the residence of the Minister. Manzoor Naik also accompanied us. The girl was liked by the minister and she was kept there for the night. The Minister told me that he will held her again for the next night, which she did. In the way Pepsi spent two rights with Ghulam Ahmad Mir. Another girl of name Yasmeena code Nancy was also found there at the residence of Minsiter. She was his regular visitor who had been promised by the minister for a job. I was paid Rs. 4000/- for a night. In addition are the statements of Gulshan @ Pepsi, mentioned by Sabeena which reads,
 ...one lady whose name I came to know later as Sabeena, met me and asked about my problem. It was just a chance meeting with her. I told my story to her. She consoled me and disclosed that she can help me in this matter as she has connections with high officers. She was well dressed and wearing a lot of gold ornaments. She gave me her telephone No. and address and asked me to contact her after four days. After about four days, when I contacted her over telephone, she asked me to come to her residence at Chinkral Mohalla. Accordingly, I went there. Thereafter, she persuaded me and took me in an auto to one person, whose name I later came to know as Manzoor Niak at Sonawar Road near Gupkar Road. Sh. Manzoor Naik was some personal staff of Ghulam Ahmed Mir, Minsiter. Sabeena talked to him and told him about my problem. Manzoor Naik assured that he will help me in getting my husband released from the jail with the help of Minister Sh. Mir. He, then asked both of us to come again at the same place at 7.00 PM. Accordingly, we both went again to the said place. From there Manzoor Naik took me in his vehicle to the residence of Sh. Ghulam Ahmed Mir, Minister at Gupkar Road, whereas Sabeena went back. At his residence, in addition to Mr. Mir, one non-Kashmiri friend of the Minister (whose name I don't know) was also there. Another Girl whose name I later came to know as Nancy code name Sonam r/o Batmaloo was already present there. When I explained my problem to Manzoor Naik he told me that it is he who arranges girls for the Minister and the Minister helps the girls. He asked me to please/satisfy the Minister and thfit in return the Minister will help me in this matter. Shri G.A. Mir, Minister, was present there at that time and he was drinking liquor alongwith his friend and Nancy. Mr. Mir told me that he will help me in getting my husband released from jail and that should not worry about anything and desired that I should satisfy/please him. He told me to stay with him for the night and thereafter, he took me to a bed room on the ground floor situated on the right side, adjacent to drawing room. Thereafter, I remained there whole night in the bed room and Mr. Mir had sexual intercourse with me, twice. The friend of Mr. Mir was in another room with other girl Nancy during the night for having sex with her. That room was having access/door from the bedroom in which I was sleeping with Mir. On the next morning, Manzoor Naik told me that he had paid Rs. 15,000/- to Sabeena. However, Nancy had disclosed to me that Rs. 20,000/- has been paid to Sabeena for me. She also told that she was paid Rs. 20,000 / - by Manzoor Naik. Thereafter, Manzoor Naik dropped me at the same point i.e. Sonawar Road near Gupkar Road from where I hired an auto and went to the house of Sabeena. She paid me Rs. 4000/- only. I did not press for more money as I wanted to get my husband released. I can identify the residence of Ghulam Ahmed Mir as well as the relevant room where I was sexually exploited. I can also identify Manzoor Naik, Ghulam Ahmed Mir as well as the friend of the Minister who were present on that night. The family members of the Minister were not there. Only one cook whom I can identify and Manzoor Naik were present in the house besides the Minsiter, his friend and Nancy. In view of these statements, this is, what the I.O observed about this person in the "line of action" furnished on 21.07.06,
 Manzoor Naik He was a close associate of Sh. G.A. Mir, Minister. According to the victim girls, it was he who used to arrange girls for the minister. He could not be traced so far. He is stated to be an active worker of National Conference and working with Forest department. He continued to be untraced till 13.09.06, when the 1.0 in action report of that date informed that,
 All attempts must be made to secure presence of absconding Manzoor Naik in order to examine him and get his statement recorded. Nothing happened till the final report was filed by investigating agency and this person too was left out. XV. Zahoor Ahmed Malik : Without quoting from statement of this person it would be enough to quote the I.O's observations regarding him as contained in the final status report of 03.10.06, which go thus,- Zahoor Ahmad Malik (He is brother-in-law of Mohd. Iqbal Khanday. He has been identified by the victim as a culprit who had picked her from Ansari Motors and taken to the residence of Mohd Ibqal Khanday. Zahoor Ahmad Malik admitted this fact and also stated that even or other occasions he used to pick up the lady guests of Mohd Iqbal Khanday at his request from other places, including Airport. Previous to this report, this is what the proposed action in this case as per "Further action plan" dated 13.09.06, was; In respect of Zahoor Ahmed Malik only one single instance has come to notice and so it would be appropriate to examine him and ascertain whether the incident in picture is an isolated incident or he has done it earlier also. At end this person too was left out. In para 7, of final status reports, following was said to exonerate all these three persons; That as submitted earlier, name of no other person has surfaced during investigation who allegedly had sex with the victim girls. However, names of Manzoor Ahmed Naik, Zahoor Ahmed Malik, NisarAhmad Sheikh and Ms. Kesar Jahan also came to notice but sufficient evidence was not available against them.... Records however do not reveal anything to suggest as to how this conclusion can be reconciled with what has been said in preceding lines. However in all aforesaid cases, from first to last, we may notice, that they suffered lack of proper action at proper time despite repeated court direction to the contrary till the deposing girls reportedly gave the secondary statements. Before proceeding further, it may be noticed that almost all the police officers examined by CBI after receiving allegations of their involvement, have pleaded that they were being involved at the behest of those whom they annoyed due to their anti militancy activities. There is no doubt that any officer dedicating himself to curb militancy deserves to be appreciated, encouraged and even suitably rewarded. But performance of anti militancy duties can't be acknowledged as a factor immunizing the concerned person from lawful action if warranted. It hardly needs be said that in a constitutional system governed by rules of law, there are no sacred cows; only lawful behavior and legal defenses are relevant. 25. There is yet another category of persons who have been alleged by Sabeena to have had illicit sex with girls procured by or known to her, but the concerned girls though much after the allegations leveled by Sabina have denied the alleged occurrences, with no other circumstance to support Sabina's statement being on record which renders further investigation in their cases imperative so naming them at this stage may not be desirable. At the same time I feel that had timely action in terms of court orders passed from time to time been taken perhaps the situation and contours of this case might have been different. However since cases of this category of persons are required to be investigated further, I would as already said abstain from naming them, but I am totally taken aghast to find names of some highly placed people in this list particularly from police department and political field; High ranking police officers and political functionaries including some former and sitting ministers of the Cabinet. I wish they figure wrongly in this shame list but even a mere incriminating mention of their names in a case of this type, not to say of any involvement like others, already mentioned, is simply stunning. If those, holding positions and potential to control and determine the destiny of millions, this way fall into the abyss of a misconduct of this magnitude, then all the concepts of democracy, Constitutional governance and public administration get torn to shreds and the whole socio political and administrative fabric comes at peril. Disorder tends to become order of the day, misrule the rule of game, and misconduct the standard of efficiency reducing the whole scenario to total anarchy, and annihilating all that is good and pleasant in life. Thankfully,the number of such people from public life and administration/police is only a small fraction of the total due to which one can genuinely nurse the pious hope that perhaps all men and manners those matter are not lost beyond redemption. 26. After grasping the situational scenario, depth of its potential to destroy the moral fabric, and the magnitude of its future implications, I feel duty bound to warn the state apparatus of extremely hazardous repercussions for the system, if the questions posing themselves through this case are not effectively answered and answered now. When ministers misbehave legislators break law, civil servants become uncivil and police officers plunder the scenario becomes quite frightening. In their safe dwellings and offices guarded at the cost of public exchequer they includge in sin and swagery at the strength of state power vesting in them and with promises of providing jobs and help to needy they ravage all norms of public, political and official life. By doing so they simply subvert the system, from within by breeding discontent, and destroying public faith in institutions of governance and willfully create and promote unlawful, unethical and immoral channels of approach for characterless and cunning prompting the vast majority to hate the system. Visibly they are more dangerous than those challenging the system from outside who can be identified and taken to task. But the "worthies", deliver sermons in serene gatherings, decorate the dices; shake hands with excellencies; fly and hoist the national flag, and rub shoulders with honorable people, and then?- indulge in disgraceful activity to bring disgrace to all these institutions occasions and personalities and escape action under cover of their authority. No doubt they are only few, but they tarnish all those belonging to their creed; and thus owe answers to them too. 27. It would perhaps be in fitness of things that Govt seriously examines setting up of a separate wing in police for dealing with anti-social offences like immoral trafficking and drug abuse etc. which generally support each others. If the data disclosed by certain statements recorded in this case by Kashmir Police before its assignment to CBI, is any indication around fifty places in Srinagar city are managed by different women organizing immoral sex trafficking by exploiting hundreds of needy girls, with suspected patronage from unsuspected quarters. Given the smallness of this place and vastness of its plight, increasing individual needs and decreasing resources deteriorating family support and diminishing social checks, spurious officialdom and suspected reformers and the disrupted social/economic/administrative fabric which constitutes the current scenario, one can reasonably apprehend that if this immoral activity continues unchained, within a short span of time the valley of Kashmir, the garden of 'rishis' and 'saints' would be converted into paradise of sinners. The situation thus caries out for intervention. An exclusive police wing could perhaps tackle the problem more effectively. Together with this, the department of Social Welfare could be saddled with responsibility for dignified rehabilitation of exploited girls pushed into immoral life through a mix of lure and greed. To top these arrangement, stringent administrative measures are required to be prescribed against any person from officialdom whether in uniform or civics found to be involved in these anti social crimes either by commission or omission. By assuring all these measures, the Govt, would only be discharging its constitutional duties that a responsible Govt.is always charged with. 28. Integral to what has been said above is the fact that society at large has to wake up to the situation. If I guess right, this case only reflects a tip of the iceberg and forecasts a social catastrophe. All those who claim to hold the reins of society have a heavy obligation cast on them to ponder over the situation, feel its agony and act. The common citizenry, if they wish to live a dignified and respectable life shall have to do a lot of self accounting and soul searching and question themselves as to how, why and for what their daughters have become vulnerable to being lured, enticed or coerced into sale of their flesh. A society, that does not subject itself to account; does not put interrogatories to itself; does not take itself to task, is doomed to die_die morally, mentally, and spiritually and get reduced to a herd of shameless creatures, shorn of all dignity, crawling in dirt and crumbling in filth, till mother earth gets rid of their worthless weight. The choice is simple and straight, but certainly not difficult to make. Made however, it has to be, before it ceases to be there. 29. Coming back to the subject under reference. In view of the conclusions arrived at in the case the action taken by CBI leave much to be desired. As already noticed, this Court in such a situation is not powerless to act, but in a way obliged in discharge of its constitutional obligations to pass necessary directions to bring the derailed process of law back on the rails. As seen in Vineet Narayan 's case quoted above, this Court in monitoring proceedings acts to assess performance of their statutory duties by law enforcing institutions to assure any violation of the mandate of law. It therefore, follows that essentially in these proceedings this Court exercises it's power of issuing writs of mandamus to concerned in exercise of its power under Article 226 of the constitution of India read with Section 103 of State constitution. An order of mandamus, as is well settled is a command requiring the concerned official/agency to do the particular thing that pertains to his office or official position in the nature of a public duty, and in cases where performance of a duty by the concerned public authority is not a matter of discretion, its nonperformance will certainly attract jurisdiction of this Court to issue directions in nature of mandamus for ordering doing of a thing that law wants to be done. The CBI like regular police is under a direct statutory obligation to act for detecting and investigating crimes commit the culprits to competent Courts to stand trial. Where this duty appears to have been diluted judicial intervention becomes necessary for maintaining the rule of law. In cases of suspected faulty criminal investigations therefore, exercise of writ power becomes almost imperative. For support the view expressed by Hon'ble apex court may be quoted in E.S. Mills Shri Virender Kuamr v. Rajiv Poddar reported as . The court while discussing indulgence even during investigation of a criminal case was pleased to observe that even at investigation stage, where non indulgence may result in failure of justice the court has the power to intervene. This is what the court observed,- Para 4...we consider it absolutely unnecessary to make reference to the decision of this Court and they are legion which have laid down that save in exceptional case where non-interference would result in miscarriage of justice, the court and the judicial process should not interfere at the sate of investigation of offences.... In an earlier judgment in S.N. Sharma v. Bipen Kumar reported as , while providing for assuring bonafide investigation the court laid down as under,
 Para 1...It appears to us that, though the Code of Criminal Procedure gives to the police unfettered power to investigate all cases where they suspect that a cognizable offence has been committed, in appropriate cases an aggrieved person can always seek a remedy by invoking the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution under which, if the High Court could be convinced that the power of investigation has been exercised by a police officer mala fide, the High Court can always issue a writ of mandamus restraining the police officer from misusing his legal power to a Magistrate to stop investigation by the police can not be a ground for holding that such a power must be read in Section 159 of the Code. 30. At this stage it would also be worth while to quote from the apex court judgment in "Best bakery" case captioned Zahira Habibullah Sheikh v. State of Gujrat and Ors. reported as 2204 4 SCC 158 wherein the Hon'ble Court while spelling out the role of Courts on Criminal side was pleased to observe that;- Para: 35; this Court has often emphasized that in a Criminal case the fate of the proceedings can't always be left entirely in the hands of the parties, crimes being public wrongs in breach and violation of public rights and duties which effect the whole community as a community and are harmful to the society in general.... Courts have always been considered to have an over riding duty to maintain public confidence in the administration of justice often referred to as the duty to indicate and uphold the "majesty of law". Due administration of justice has always been viewed as a continuous process not confined to determination of a particular case, protecting its ability to function as a court of law in the future as in the case before it. Para: 54; Though justice is depicted to be blind folded as popularly said it is only a veil not to see who the party before it is whole pronouncing judgment on the cause brought before it by enforcing law and administer justice and not to ignore or turn the mind/attention of the court away from the truth of the cause or the lis before it in disregard of its duty to prevent miscarriage of justice when an ordinary citizen makes a grievance against the mighty administration any indifference in action or lethargy shown in protecting his right guaranteed in law will tend to paralyze by such inaction or lethargic action of Courts and erode in stages the faith inbuilt injudicial system ultimately destroying the very justice delivery system of the country itself. Doing justice is the paramount consideration and that duty cannot be abdicated or diluted and diverted by manipulative red hearings. Para: 56; As pithily stated in Jennison v. Baker, The law should not be seen to sit by limply while those who seek its protection loose hope, Courts have to ensure that accused persons are punished and that the might or authority of the state are not used to shield themselves or their men. It should be ensured that they do not wield such powers which under the constitution has to be held only in trust for the public and society at large. If deficiency in investigation or prosecution is visible or can be perceived by lifting the veil trying to hide the realities or covering the obvious deficiencies, courts have to deal with the same with an iron hand appropriately within the frame work of law.... Para 63: As was observed in "Ram Bihari Yadav Section State of Bihar" if primacy is given to such designed or negligent investigation, to the omission or lapses by perfunctory investigation or omission, the faith and confidence of the people would be shaken not only in the law enforcing agency but also administration of justice in the courts. The view was again reiterated in Amar Singh v. Bakvinder Singh . Thus this Court is obliged in law to act in the matter, in discharge of its constitutional duty, for which it enjoys enormous power, perhaps vested in it only to meet situation like the present one. View expressed by Hon'ble apex court in M.V. Elisabath v. Harwani investment reported as SCC 1993 (2) 433 may be quoted;- 66. The High Courts in India are superior courts or record. They have original and appellate jurisdiction. They have inherent and plenary powers. Unless expressly or impliedly barred, and subject to the appellate of discretionary jurisdiction of this Court, the High Courts have unlimited jurisdiction, including the jurisdiction to determine their own powers. (See Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar v. State of Maharashtra . As stated in Halsbury's Lawas of England 4th Edn., Vol 10, para 713: 33. Nothing herein shall preclude the investigating agency to conduct fresh investigation or to have the test identification parades repeated in cases of persons who have been released for want of proper identification, if circumstances obtaining so warrant. 34. The matter be again listed on 26.11.2007. All connected CMP's stand disposed of in terms of this order, except Robkar 4/06, wherein separate orders are passed herewith. Copies of this order be furnished to Advocate General, the counsel for CBI, Chief Secretary and DGP of the State for requisite follow up action in accordance with foregoing directions. 35. The Registrar Judicial shall keep all the papers furnished by CBI from time to time status report, and photocopies of statements in a sealed cover with the file, with an index of the contents pasted on it. The sealed envelop shall not be opened otherwise than under express orders of the bench. Moreover during proceeding on this case I have received some letters containing allegations against certain person, which be placed on file for being handed over to CBI for action. List as directed. H. Imtiyaz Hussain, J. 36. The facts of the case have been stated in detail in the judgment proposed to be delivered by Brother Kirmani J. I need not repeat them. Circumstances, under which this Court treated the present writ petition, as PIL and directed moni toring of the investi gation, have also been given. 1, concur with my learned brother that the CBI shall file a report before the Chief Judicial Magistrate but in my view the report shall not be in respect of a particular person or persons only but whole the material collected by the CBI shall be submitted to the Court and it shall be left to that court to decide whether any offence is made out against all or any of the persons on the basis of investigation done or the case needs any further investigation. Keeping in view the scope of monitoring of investigation this Court cannot analyse and appreciate the evidence collected by the CBI to find out accusation or otherwise of the persons involved. To examine the legal position a brief mention of the developments which took place may be made. 37. On 14-3-2006 a delegation of Samaj Sudhar Committee, Purshyaar, Habbakadal, Srinagar lodged a written report in the Sub Divisional Police Office, Shaheed Ganj, Srinagar stating therein that a minor boy of the area had sent them, through one Bashir Ahmad Paffoo, a fruit vendor a CD containing pornographic clips of a local girl. On receiving the report case FIR 20 of 2006 was registered under Section 67 of IA Act and investigation started by the S.D.P.O. During investigation statements of Inspector Zahoor Ahmad, Mohammad Maqbool Gujri, Bashir Ahmad Paffoo, Habibullah Shalla, Altaf Ahmad Gujri, Abdul Rashid Hamal, Abdul Rashid Gujri were recorded. Statement of a minor girl was also recorded, from these statements it appeared that one Sabeena w/o Abdul Hameed Bulla r/o Habba Kadal was indulging in flesh trade and for this purpose various girls and persons used to visit her house. Names of about 57 persons including politicians, government and police officers and businessmen and about nine girls were given by the girl whose statement was recorded in the case. In view of this evidence offences under Section 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 were added and six persons were arrested. 38. Investigation of the case was taken over by the CBI in pursuance of Notification No: 228/19/2006/AVD-II dated May 9,2006 under Section 5 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 issued by the Department of Personnel and Training of Government of India, with the consent of Government of Jammu and Kashmir vide Notification No. Home/ISA/234/2006 on May 8,2006 under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The CBI re-registered the case as RC 1(s)/2006/SCR-III/CBl/ND under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 on May 10,2006. 39. As a result of initial investigation CBI arrested five persons apart from those arrested by local police. Charge sheet was, therefore, filed in the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Srinagar on 24-6-2006 against the following persons-Sabeena, Mehraj-ud-din Malik, Abdul Hamid Bulla, Shabir Ahmad Laway @ Shabir Kala, Shabbir Ahmad Laimoo @ Lone and Masood Ahmed @ Maqsood Mohd. Ashraf Mir, K.C. Padhi, DIG BSF and Anil Sethi, ex-Additional Advocate General under Section 376 RPC and Section 3 , 4 , 5 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 and 67 IT Act, 2000 . 40. This Court vide its order dated 10-5-2006 directed that detailed statement be recorded of accused Sabeena, who was allegedly supplying girls to bureaucrats, politicians, businessmen etc. for the purpose of prostitution. Sabeena's statement was recorded by the CBI on 18.5.2006, 10.6.2006, 11.6.2006, 12.6.2006, 15.6.2006, 18.6.20006, 22.6.2006, 23.6.2006, 16.7.2006 and 20.9.2006. In her statement she named about 18 victim girls who were allegedly exploited by 24 persons named in her statement. Out of these girls who could be traced out have been examined. Identification of some of the persons named by them was also conducted. Statements of Sabeena and the girls have been recorded and TIPs of alleged culprits has been conducted by the CBI in presence of senior judicial officers. Persons who have been named by these girls and whose identity got confirmed in TIP have already been arrested and charge sheeted namely Ghulam Ahmad Mir, MLA, Mohd. Iqbal Khanday IAS, Raman Matoo MLA., Reyaz Ahmad Kawa c/o Hotel Naaz, Mohd. Yusuf Mir, Abrar Ahmed, Hilal Ahmad Shah, Aijaz Ahmad Bhat, Altaf Hussain, under Sections 3 , 5 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 and 67 IT Act, 2000 . 41. In respect of four persons the concerned girls could not be found by the CBI hence no action has been taken against them for want of evidence. In respect of six persons TIP was conducted but the girls could not identify them hence no action has been taken against them by the I.O. Similarly no action has been taken in respect of three persons for the reason that contradictions were found in the statements of the girls. One of the person namely Javid Shah has died while as, according to CBI, another person namely Amir, SI does not exist at all. So the CBI has not arrested these persons or came to a definite conclusion about their guilt on the ground of in sufficient evidence against them. 42. Heard. I have considered the submissions made by the learned Counsels and have perused the record submitted by the CBI. 43. Mr. M.A. Qayoom, appearing for the petitioner Association submits that the present litigation is not of adversary character but one of performance of the constitutional duty by the State. In view of the sensitivity of the issues involved the present case has been treated as Public Interest Litigation by the Court. According to the learned Counsel certain important issues arise in the case but the State or the CBI has not filed reply to the present petition. Honest and bonafide investigation was expected from the premier investigating agency of the country but the CBI has tried to hush up the matter and a legal and proper investigation as was required, has not been done. The CBI has neither arrested the accused nor has taken any action against the hotels and guest houses allegedly involved in the flesh trade. Learned Counsel pleads that the Court should now order arrest of all these persons and direct action against the accused. He has relied on Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P. , Vineet Narain v. Union of India , Vineet Narain v. Union of India and Zahira Habibulla II. Sheikh v. State of Gujarat . 44. Per contra, Id. Advocate General and Mr. Shabir Naik would submit that the CBI has completed the investigation and has filed a charge sheet against the accused who have been arrested. Persons whose name appeared in the statements of the girls but against whom no corroboratory evidence could be found have not been arrested and that the CBI will on completion of the formalities file a report in this behalf before the competent Court. They have relied on Emperor v. Nazir Ahmad and M.C. Abraham v. Stale of Maharashtra . 45 Section 2(h) of the Code of Criminal Procedure defines "investigation" and it includes all the proceedings under the Code for the collection of evidence conducted by a police officer or by any person (other than a Magistrate) who is authorised by a Magistrate in this behalf. Investigation concludes with the formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected, there is a case to place the accused before a Magistrate for trial and if so, taking the necessary steps for the same by filing of a charge-sheet under Section 173. 46. Section 169 authorises a police officer to release a person from custody on his executing a bond, to appear, if and when so required, before a Magistrate in case upon an investigation under Chapter XII it appears to the officer-in-charge of the police station that there is not sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion to justify the forwarding of the accused to a Magistrate. Section 170 empowers the officer-in-charge of a police station to forward the accused under custody to a competent Magistrate or to take security from the accused for his appearance before the Magistrate in case where the offence is bailable, if after investigation it appears that there is sufficient evidence or reasonable ground for doing so. 47. The extent of the powers of the officer-in-charge of the police station to conduct the investigation and supervision by the Courts in this behalf was considered by the Privy Council in Emperor v. Nazir Ahmad . This decision has been approved and has been referred to in several decisions of the Supreme Court. The Privy Council has in dealing with the issue observed: 48. In H.N. Rishbud v. State of Delhi 1955 SCR 1150 the Apex Court while examining the scheme of Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1908 held that the investigation primarily consists in the ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case and by definition it includes "all the proceedings under the Code for the collection of evidence conducted by a police officer." It was further observed that the final step in the investigation viz., the formation of the opinion as to whether or not there is a case to place the accused on trial is to be that of the officer-in-charge of the police station. 49. The principle enunciated in Khwaja Nazir Ahamad case was applied by the Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v. S.N. Basak . It was observed that: 50. This question was again considered in Abhinandan Jha and Anr. v. Dincsh Mishra . The Court while considering the provisions of Sections 156(3), 169, 178 and 190 of the Code held that there is no power, expressly or implied conferred, under the Code, on a Magistrate to call upon the police to submit a charge-sheet, when they have sent a report under Section 169 of the Code, that there is no case made out for sending up an accused for trial. The functions of the Magistracy and the police are entirely different, and the Magistrate cannot impinge upon the jurisdiction of the police, by compelling them to change their opinion so as to accord with his view. However, he is not deprived of the power to proceed with the matter. There is no obligation on the Magistrate to accept the report if he does not agree with the opinion formed by the Police. The power to take cognizance notwithstanding formation of the opinion by the police which is the final stage in the investigation has been provided for in Section 190(1)(e). After examining the scheme of the Act and the decision of the Privy Council in Nazir Ahmad (supra) and H.N. Rishbud and S.N. Basak (supra) it was held as under: 51. The same view was endorsed by the Supreme Court in State of Bihar v. JAC Saldanha where it was reiterated that investigation of criminal offences, was a field exclusively reserved for the Executive, through the police department, the superintendence over which, vested in the State Government. The Court further held that the Court and judicial process should not interfere at the stage of investigation. It was stated that: 52. In Janata Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary the Supreme Court observed that most of the decisions of the English cases laid down the dictum that only in cases where there is substantial amount of delay or potential abuse of process or vexatious prosecution or the proceedings are tainted with malice etc. alone the Court can step in by exercise of the inherent power. The Court in this behalf cited the following observations of Lord Denning in R. v. Matropolitan Police Commissioner : 53. These cases indicate that the consistent view of the Supreme Court was that the job to investigate a case primarily vested with the Investigating agency. The Court was not prepared to intervene in such matters nor allow a third party to claim any right in this behalf in the name of Public Interest Litigation. The Court in the case of Janata Dal observed: 54. This view was endorsed by the Supreme Court in Simranjit Singh Mann v. Union of India and Krishna Sivami v. Union of India . 55. In later years, however, the Supreme Court intervened in appropriate cases like allegations of fake encounters, custodial deaths, and police torture. While initially the Courts were content to direct inquiries by the local District and Sessions Judges, subsequently in several cases, the Court directed investigation by the CB1 directly as in cases Shiv Sagar Tiwari v. Union of India , Punjab & Haryana High Court Bar Association v. Stale of Punjab . Ranted Kaur v. State of Punjab 1995 ( 2) SCALE 373, PUCL v. U.O.I. 1995 (2) SCALE 102. 56. In Paramjit Kaur v. State of Punjab the Court observed: 57. In the year 1996 in the case of Vineet Narain 1996 (2) SCC 199 the Court, perhaps for the first time directed monitoring of investigation by the CBI. The Court observed as follows: 58. When despite monitoring by the Supreme Court, of several cases, a number of accused were discharged by the High Court, the court, in the final Judgment in Vineet Narayan said that "either the investigation or the prosecution or both, were lacking." In another order, the Supreme Court recorded "a scheme, giving the needed insulation to the CB1 or the Executive, is imperative." The justification for this procedure was disinclination of the agencies to proceed with the investigations, whenever someone powerful was suspected to be involved in the offence. The Court in the circumstances of the case considered it proper lo keep the matter pending and the investigation was monitored and in that connection several orders were passed from time lo time. The Court came to the conclusion that the CBI and other Governmental agencies had not carried out their public duty to investigate the offences disclosed and the investigation was monitored till the point of time when charge-sheet was filed and thereafter ordinary process of law was to be followed. 59. Since in the present case politicians, high officials, officials from security forces were involved this Court, following, the course adopted by the Supreme Court in Vineet Narian's case thought it proper to monitor the investigation. 60. After Vineet Narain's case monitoring of investigation conducted either by the CBI or other agencies was ordered by the Courts in a number of cases. But the role of the Courts remained confined only to ensure proper investigation by the agencies and the decision whether any offence was made out against persons involved was left to be determined at the trial on the filing of the charge sheet in the competent Court. 61. In Union of India v. Sushil Kumar Modi it was observed by the Supreme Court that the Court, while monitoring the investigation is concerned with ensuring proper and honest performance of its duty by the CB1 and not the merits of the accusations being investigated, which are to be determined at the trial on the filing of the charge sheet in the competent Court, according to the ordinary procedure prescribed by law. The Court held: 62. Section 173 and Sub-section (2) thereof is important and it lays down that as soon as investigation is completed, the officer-in-charge of the police station shall forward to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of the offence on a police report, a report in the form prescribed by the State Government stating: 63. The object of the police report with these details is to enable the Magistrate to satisfy himself, whether on the basis of the report and the material, a case for taking cognizance is made out or not. If the Magistrate is satisfied that cognizance of the offence is required to be taken, he can proceed further in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure . Section 190(1)(b) Cr.P.C., provides that a Magistrate has the power to take cognizance upon a police report of such fuels as are provided therein on being satisfied that the case is a fit one for taking cognizance of the offence. It is the Magistrate alone who has to decide whether the material placed by the prosecution with the report (charge-sheet) was sufficient, to take cognizance or not. 64. When a report forwarded by the police to the Magistrate under Section 173(2)(i) is placed before him several situations arise. The report may conclude that an offence appears to have been committed by a particular person or persons and in such a case, the Magistrate may either: The report may on the other hand state that according to the police, no offence appears to have been committed. When such a report is placed before the Magistrate he has again option of adopting one of the three courses open i.e.
 

(1) he may accept the report and drop the proceeding; or
 

(2) he may disagree with the report and take the view that there is sufficient ground for further proceeding, take cognizance of the offence and issue process; or
 

(3) he may direct further, investigation to be made by the police under Section 156(3). 65. The question which requires consideration is whether the Court can go into the validity or otherwise of the investigation done by the authorities charged with the duty of investigation under the relevant statutes. 66. In Tula Ram v. Kishore Singh , the Magistrate on receiving a complaint, ordered an investigation under Section 156(3). The police submitted a report indicating that no case had been made out against the accused. The Court, however, recorded the statements of the complainant and the witnesses and issued process against the accused. It was contended that the Magistrate acted without jurisdiction in taking cognizance of the case as if upon a complaint when the police had submitted a report that no case had been made out against the accused. The Supreme Court held that the Magistrate acted within his powers and observed that the complaint did not get exhausted as soon as the Magistrate ordered an investigation under Section 156(3). 67. In the case of H.S. Bains v. State one Gurnam Singh submitted a complaint to the Judicial Magistrate 1st Class, Chandigarh alleging that H.S. Bains trespassed into his house along with two others on 11-8-1979 at about 8 a.m. and threatened to kill him and his son. The Magistrate directed the police under Section 156(3) of the Code to make an investigation. After completing the investigation, the police submitted a report to the Magistrate under Section 173(2) of the Code stating that the case against the accused was not true and that the case may be dropped. The learned Magistrate disagreed with the conclusion of the police and look cognizance of the case under Sections 448 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and directed the issue of process to the accused. Thereupon, the accused moved the High Court for quashing the proceedings before the Magistrate. As the High Court declined to interfere, the accused approached the Supreme Court by way of appeal by special leave. Various contentions were advanced on behalf of the accused and one of them was that the Magistrate was not competent to take cognizance of the case upon the police report since the report was to the effect that no offence had been committed by the accused. It was further urged that if the Magistrate was ndt satisfied with the police report, there were only two courses open to him, viz. either to order a further investigation of the case by the police or to take cognizance of the case himself as if upon a complaint and record the statements of the complainant and his witnesses under Section 200 of the Code and then issue process if he was satisfied that the case should be proceeded with. Repelling those contentions the Court held as follows; The Magistrate is not bound by the conclusions arrived at by the police even as he is not bound by the conclusions arrived at by the complainant in a complaint. If a complainant states the relevant facts in his complaint and alleges that the accused is guilty of an offence under Section 307 Indian Penal Code the Magistrate is not bound by the conclusion of the complainant. He may think that the facts disclose an offence under Section 324 Indian Penal Code only and he may take cognizance of an offence under Section 124 instead of Section 507. Similarly if a police report mentions that half a dozen persons examined by them claim to be eyewitnesses to a murder but that for various reasons the witnesses could not be believed, the Magistrate is not bound to accept the opinion of the police regarding the credibility of the witnesses. He may prefer to ignore the conclusions of the police regarding the credibility of the witnesses and take cognizance of the offence. If he does so, it would be on the basis of the statements of the witnesses as revealed by the police report. He would be taking cognizance upon the facts disclosed by the police report though not on the conclusions arrived at by the police. 68. If Bhagwant Singh v. Commissioner of Police a three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court has observed that three options are open to the Court, on receipt of a report under Section 173(2) of the Code, when such report states that no offence has been committed by the persons accused in the complaint. They are: 69. Another three Judge Bench of the Apex Court in India Carat Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Karnataka held: 70. In Union Public Service Commissions v. Section Papaiah a two Judge Bench considered the scope of Section 173(8) of the Code. Hon'ble Dr. Justice A. Section Anand (as his lordship then was), alter extracting Section 173(8) of the Code has observed: 71. In State v. Raj Kumar Jain a two-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court considered the legality of an order passed by a Special Judge before whom the CBI filed final report in respect of a Junior Engineer who was pitted against offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act . The CBI in the report held that the allegations made against him were unsubstantiated. But the Special Judge declined to accept the said report as in his opinion the CBI should have taken the view of the Sanctioning Authority. So the Special Judge directed the CBI to conduct further investigation after approaching the Sanctioning Authority. Though the High Court of Delhi did not interfere with the said direction, the Supreme Court interfered with it for which their Lordships followed the decision in Abhinandan Jha AIR 1968 SC 117. The Bench then observed thus: 72. The position is, therefore, now well-settled that upon receipt of a police report under Section 173(2) a Magistrate is entitled to take cognizance of an offence under Section 190(1)(b) of the Code even if the police report is to the effect that no case is made out against the accused. The Magistrate can take into account ti statements of the witnesses examined by the police during the investigation and take cognizance of the offence complained of and order the issue of process to the accused. Section 190(1)(b) does not lay down that a Magistrate can take cognizance of an offence only if the investigating Officer gives an opinion that the investigation has made out a case against the accused. The Magistrate can ignore the conclusion arrived at by the Investigating Officer and independently apply his mind to the facts emerging from the investigation and take cognizance of the case, if he thinks fit, exercise of his powers under Section 190(1)(b) and direct the issue of process to the accused. The Magistrate is not bound in such a situation to follow the procedure laid down in Sections 200 and 202 of the Code for taking cognizance of a case under Section 190(1)(a) though it is open to him to act under Section 200 or Section 202 also. 73. The informant is not prejudicially affected when the Magistrate decides to take cognizance and to proceed with the case. But where the Magistrate decides that sufficient ground does not subsist for proceeding further and drops the proceeding or takes the view that there is material for proceeding against some and there are insufficient grounds in respect of others, the informant would certainly be prejudiced as the First Information Report lodged becomes wholly or partially ineffective. Therefore, the Supreme Court indicated in Bhagwant Singh 's case (supra) that where the Magistrate decides not to take cognizance and to drop the proceeding or takes a view that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding against some of the persons mentioned in the First Information Report, notice to the informant and grant of opportunity of being heard in the matter becomes mandatory. 74. In view of this well settled legal position 1 am of the view that it is not within the powers of this Court to examine and analyse the evidence collected by the CBI, at this stage as it falls within the jurisdiction of the concerned court, it is for that court alone to decide whether the conclusions arrived at by the CBI are correct or there is sufficient evidence to take cognizance against any person. It is also for the court to decide whether further investigation in respect of any or all the persons named by Sabeena or other victims and against whom no action has been taken is required in the circumstances of the case. The CBI may therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure place a report before the concerned court and the court may thereafter examine the matter. While doing so any observation made on the merits of the accusation are not to be treated as final, or having the approval of this Court. Such observations should not, in any manner, influence the decision on merits at the trial on the filing of the charge sheet. 75. The present case covers three broad areas; firstly to deal with the culprits whose names have been revealed by the victims; secondly protection and rehabilitation of the victims and thirdly remedial measures to prevent such immoral acts in future. 76. So far the first issue is concerned in view of the above discussion it is for the concerned court to deal with the issue. 77. During the course of these proceedings issues of security and protection of the victims and their rehabilitation were raised. In this behalf the Court has already issued directions to the State to provide necessary security to these victims. It is reiterated that due protection be given by the State to the victims who approach the authorities for the purpose. State shall also take steps for rehabilitation of any such victim who needs the assistance of the government in this behalf. For this it will be appropriate for the Government to constitute a committee of senior officers including an officer from the Social Welfare Department to examine such cases if any and work out proper ways to rehabilitate such girls. 78. Petitioner, J & K High Court Bar Association, Srinagar state that the Jammu and Kashmir Prostitution Rules, 1921 are still in force as the same have not been repealed by the State Government despite the International convention for the suppression of the Traffic in persons and of the exploitation of the Prostitution of others. It is alleged that the Rules of 1921 virtually permit prostitution if the prostitute has got her name registered in the office of Deputy Commissioner or any other public servant. The petitioner Association contends that the Rules of 1921 being contrary to morality, ethos, culture and religion of the people of Kashmir as also to the public policy, deserve to be struck down. 79. On going through the provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Prostitution Rules, 19211 am of the view the same stands repealed by Section 25 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. 80. The immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 was enacted to provide, in pursuance of the International Convention signed at New York on 9th May, 1950, for the prevention of immoral traffic. Government of India in the year 1950 ratified an International Convention for suppression of traffic in persons and of the exploitation of the prostitution of others. The principal object of the Act is to prevent commercialization of the vice and trafficking among women and girls. As Krishna Iyer J. has observed in Chita J. Vaswani v. State of W.B. no nation, with all its boasts, and all its hopes, can ever morally be clean till all its women are really free free to live without sale of their young flesh to lascivious wealth or commercializing their luscious figures. India, to redeem this 'gender justice' and to proscribe prostitution whereby rich men buy poor women through houses of vice, has salved its social conscience by enacting the Act. 81. The scope of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 is very vast. Section (3) of the Act provides for punishment for keeping a brothel or allowing a premises to be used as a brothel. Section 3(1) provides for the conviction and punishment of a person who keeps or manages or acts or assists in the keeping or management of a brothel. Sub-section (2) of that section provides for the conviction and punishment of a person who being (a) a tenant, lessee or occupier or person in charge of any premises, uses or knowingly allows any other person to use, such premises or any part thereof as a brothel, (b) the owner, lessor or landlord of any premises or the agent of such owner, lessor or landlord, lets the premises or any part thereof with the knowledge that the same or any part thereof is intended to he used as a brothel or is willfully a party to the use of such premises or any part thereof, as a brothel. "Brothel" is defined in Section 2(a) as including a house, room, or place or any portion of any house, room or place, which is used for the purpose of prostitution for the gain of another person or for the mutual gain of two or more prostitutes. "Prostitute" is defined in Section 2(e) as meaning a female who offers her body, for promiscuous sexual intercourse for hire whether in money or in kind. Section 7 provides for the punishment of prostitution in or in the vicinity of public places. Public place is defined in Section 2(h) as meaning any place intended for use by or accessible to the public and includes any public conveyance. Section 18 is very important and gives powers to the Magistrates to attach any house, room, place which is being run or used as a brothel by any person, or is being used by prostitutes for carrying on their trade. Sections 3 and 7 provide for the punishment of persons guilty of the offences mentioned therein. Any contravention of the provisions mentioned therein amounts to a cognizable, offence in view of Section 14 , whereas a proceeding under Section 18 is in no sense a prosecution. It is a preventive measure. It is intended to minimise the chance of a brothel being run or prostitution being carried on in premises near about public places. 82. It is clear from the various provisions that the Act is a complete code with respect to what is to be done under it. It deals with the suppression of immoral traffic in women and girls, a matter which has to be tackled with effectively. 83. The Act creates new offences and provides for the forum before which they would be tried. Necessary provisions of the Code of Criminal procedure have been adopted fully or with modifications. Thus due provisions have been made not only lo punish the accused but' also to prevent immoral trafficking and exploitation of woman 84. Though the Act applies to the State also but the State Government has not taken the Act seriously and has not paid due attention to implement various provisions of the Act. Even the rules have not been framed under the Act. 85. If the provisions of the Act are strictly enforced and the functionaries under the Act are made responsible for implementation of the Act, it is likely to check menace of immoral trafficking in the State. 86. In view of the above discussion it is directed that: 87. Before concluding I may place on record appreciation for the able assistance rendered to the Court by Mr. Qayoom and his associates for the petitioner and Id. Advocate General Mr. Altaf Naik and Mr. Shabir Naik Ld. ASG during the proceedings of this case. Order accordingly.