SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Buyer beware. BlueDart will most likely try to scam you
DATE: 2022-08-23
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/wvseok/buyer_beware_bluedart_will_most_likely_try_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

Context: i had ordered a laptop from asus's website and it was to be delivered through bluedart. Now up until the "out of delivery" part EVERYTHING goes fine and dandy, regular updates and all. But then on the day its supposed to be delivered the dude calls me to ask for my exact address, and after that. Nothing. Till 7 pm after when i call his number again and the only thing i get from is "humko pata hai laptop hai". Any further attempts to call him and he either cuts the call or lets it go through. 

Ok very well you might think. Isolated incident, one bad apple, why are you making this reddit post? 

WELL. My friends, thats exactly what i thought. Just. A bad apple. Surely contacting the company would be of help. NOPE. call BD's fool free no. It immediately cuts. Cant send emails no matter how much i try it just wouldnt go. Called the number of its office in my city multiple times, went through.
I WENT to the the fucking office and at first they said that it would be delivered later. But after some shouting and grilling they denied ever having recived the package or the package ever existing in the first place, even after showing them screenshots and emails and SMSs. So, after threatening legal action and calling the cops and ACTUALLY phoning the thana did they finally fucking relent. Called in the delivery guy(who came 20 fucking minutes later) gave him a little stern talking(like the bullshit talks you give to 2 year olds) pretty much a show for us. Still refused to give the package by saing shit like "sir aap ab consignment dekh liye hai, yeh aapko kalil jaayega" but after some threats they finally gave it to me. 

Now i know this isint a scam or a fake BD, because they actually had my stuff, so yeah pretty scary and scummy behaviour i'd beware.

Moral of the story: DO NOT trust BlueDart. Their email doesn't work, their toll free doesn't work and their workers and employees are scummy and may try to rob you of your shit.