1. The present applications under Section 439 Cr.P.C. have been filed seeking bail in FIR No.540 of 2019 initially registered under Sections 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B IPC. Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been added subsequently during the course of investigation. 2. On 2nd November, 2019, the aforesaid FIR came to be registered on the complaint of one I.M. Kaushal, Secretary, Trust of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (hereinafter referred to as "U.P.P.C.L.") against one Mr. Praveen Kumar Gupta, ex-Secretary (Trust) and Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi, who served U.P.P.C.L. in the capacity of Director (Finance) from June 2016 to June 2019. The name of the present accused-applicant has been added during the course of investigation having been found fully involved in the scam. 3. As per the FIR, in pursuance of the implementation of the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Transfer Scheme, 2000, the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board was divided on 14th January, 2000 into 3 Companies i.e. (i) Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, (ii) Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidut Utpadan Nigam Limited, and (iii) Uttar Pradesh Hydro Power Corporation Limited. On 14th January, 2000 itself the employees working in the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board were assigned to the aforesaid three corporations established in pursuance of the Reform Scheme. In respect of all the employees working in these three power corporations, Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Trust was constituted on 29th April, 2000 under the provisions of the Provident Fund Act, 1952 to manage general provident fund, gratuity fund and pension fund of the employees of three electricity corporations so constituted. 4. A Trust-deed was executed on 24th April, 2000 for creation of the Trust. As per trust deed, the aforesaid three funds namely, General Provident Fund, Gratuity Fund and Pension Fund created for the benefit of employees of three power corporations shall be called "Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees General Provident Fund", "Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Gratuity Fund" and "Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Pension Fund". These funds collectively would be referred to as ''Funds'. 5. As per the Trust-deed, the funds vest in Board of Trustees who shall administer the Funds in accordance with the Rules as set out in the Schedule of the Trust-deed. The First Trustees are: 6. The other Trustees are to hold office on appointment by nomination or otherwise, in the manner as provided in the Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees General Provident Fund Rules, 2000. 7. Clause 7 of the Trust-deed reads as under:- 8. For the management of provident fund of the employees joining the U.P.P.C.L. on 14.01.2000 or later, Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Contributory Provident Fund Rules, 2004 were enacted and made applicable with effect from 1st April, 2004. Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Contributory Provident Trust (hereinafter referred to as "CPF") was constituted on 25th June, 2006 under the Provident Fund Act, 1952. 9. Appropriation and the management of Provident Funds of the employees of the Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Trust and the Uttar Pradesh Corporation C.P.F. Trust was the responsibility of Secretary (Trust) and Director (Finance) U.P.P.C.L. The management and appropriation and other related actions with respect to provident funds account of the employees were to be performed by the Secretary (Trust) and Director (Finance) of both the Trusts in accordance with the directions issued by the Central Government from time to time. 10. The amount deducted from the salaries of the member employees of the Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Trust and the Uttar Pradesh Corporation Contributory Provident Fund Trust were forwarded to the Trust office by all three Corporations which then were required to be invested by the Secretary (Trust) on the approval of Director (Finance) and trustee and in accordance with the directions issued from time to time by the Board of Trustees in various approved schemes. 11. On 08.05.2013, it was resolved by the Board of Trustees of the U.P. State Power Sector Employees Trust that the amount of the General Provident Fund would be invested in term deposits of the nationalized Banks for a period of 1 to 3 years. Further, it was resolved in the meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Trust on 21st April, 2014 that in case there were alternative investment avenues available which were as safe as investment in the Banks and offered more assured interests, they should be presented after contemplation and, if needed then the Director (Finance) should be duly authorized to take the services of investment advisor. 12. In pursuance of the aforesaid resolutions till October, 2016, Provident Fund amounts of the two Trusts were deposited in the Nationalized Banks in term deposits accruing interest. 13. However, in the month of December, 2016 on the proposal of the then Secretary of the Trust, Mr. Praveen Kumar Gupta, after obtaining the approvals from the then Director (Finance), Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi and the then Managing Director, U.P.P.C.L., Mr. A.P. Mishra, the present accused-accused who was working as Managing Director, U.P.P.C.L., they started investing the G.P.F. and C.P.F. funds in the P.N.B. Housing term deposits. In the same series, the G.P.F. and C.P.F. funds were invested as term deposits by Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi and Mr. Praveen Kumar Gupta from March, 2017 in a private institution named Deewan Housing Finance Ltd (hereinafter referred to as ''DHFL') with the approval of the Managing Director, U.P.P.C.L. the present accused-applicant without any authority of law in illegal and mala fide manner for personal gains. The present accused-applicant granted approval for investing the amount of two Funds in NBFC with sole purpose of earning illegal brokerage by the accused. 14. It is further alleged that appropriation of funds was not done in accordance with the notification dated 2nd March, 2015 issued by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. It is further alleged that according to the aforesaid notification, the funds of non Government Provident Fund could have been invested in the unscheduled commercial banks to the maximum limit of 50%. 15. It is alleged that the forged and fabricated minutes of the meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Contributory Provident Fund allegedly held on 24th March, 2017 were prepared to supply the illegal investment of money from two funds in DHFL. In the aforesaid meeting, it was allegedly resolved that "the Board of Trustees agreed to consider the investment proposals as per the government notification dated 2nd March, 2015 in the securities with higher security and high interest rates other than deposits of nationalized banks in AAA rated Companies. As per prevailing practice, further investment and the securities would be decided by Secretary (Trust) on the case to case basis with the consent/approval of Director (Finance), U.P.P.C.L. trustee. 16. It has been alleged that as per record available in the office of trust from March, 2017 to December, 2018, the then Secretary (Trust) Mr. Praveen Kumar Gupta who was in charge of both C.P.F. and G.P.F. Trust after obtaining approval from the then Director (Finance), Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi and the present accused-applicant who was working as Managing Director of U.P.P.C.L. and transgressing the clear directives of the Government of India as contained in its notification dated 2nd March, 2015 according to which clear directions were issued that the moneys of the employees Provident Fund should not be invested in any of the institutions other than scheduled/unscheduled commercial banks, with ill intentions invested more than 50% of the amount in term deposit of DHFL, knowing fully well that it did not fall in the category of unscheduled commercial banks and it was an unsecured private institution. 17. It is also alleged that according to the records available, GPF contributions amounting to Rs.2631.20 crores were invested in DHFL out of which only Rs.1185.50 crores have been received by the trust office and an amount of Rs.1445.70 crores plus interest is yet to be received. Similarly, an amount of Rs.1491.5 crores of the Contributory Provident Fund was invested in the DHFL, out of which Rs.669.3 crores have been received by the office of the trust and Rs.822.2 crores plus ineterest is yet to be received.Thus, the total amount of Rs.2267.90 crores (Principal Amount) and interest is yet to be received from the DHFL. 18. Thus, allegations in sum and substance are that the accused in furtherance of criminal conspiracy with malafide intention for personal gain and in violation of the relevant provisions of law, have invested huge amount of two funds i.e. Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Employees General Provident Fund and Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited Contributory Provident Fund in DHFL, a company incorporated under the Companies Act . Their malafide decision has caused huge loss to these funds to the amount of Rs.2267.9 crores (Principal Amount) besides interest. The investigation has revealed that the investments have been made in the DHFL by the accused for personal gain as they have received the huge amount from DHFL as commission for making such investments. 19. The aforesaid two trusts were created under the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and rules made thereunder as well as the provisions of Indian Trust Act, 1882 . 20. Rule 11 of the Uttar Pradesh State Sector Employees General Provident Fund Rules 2000 which provides power and function of the secretary of the Trust reads as under:- 21. Rule 22 provides investment of the Assets of the fund which reads as under:- "22.Investment of the Assets of the Fund: Provided that the investments must be in accordance with provisions laid down in the Income Tax Rules, 1982 and as may be prescribed by the RPFC. (b) The Trustees may deposit such sums of money as are not invested in accordance with sub-rule (a) above or are required for day to day needs of the Fund in a Post Office Saving Bank Account or in any Scheduled Bank, and open account or accounts in such Bank or Banks for the purpose in the name of the fund, and such accounts shall be operated by the Director (Finance) of UPPCL and the Secretary of the Board. (c) All investments made or to be made as aforesaid shall be held in the name of the Fund." 22. Thus, according to the aforesaid Rule 22 the money of the Fund is to be invested in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act, 1956 and in the manner prescribed by the Central Government from time to time in this behalf. It is also provided that the investments must be in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Income Tax Rules, 1962 and as may be prescribed by the RPFC. 23. Similarly, some of the provisions of UPPCL Contributory Provident Fund Rules, 2004 would be apt to make note of for disposal of the present bail applications. 24. Rule 14 provides for investment of the fund amount which reads as under:- 25. Thus, 2004 Rules are Pari materia provisions with the 2000 rules. 26. Section 20 of the Indian Trust Act, 1982 postulates that the investment shall be made in the security satisfying clause (a) to (d) for investment of Trust money reads as under:- 27. Section 418 of the Companies Act, 1956 provides that the amount of provident fund shall be deposited in the post office, State Bank of India or in a Nationalised Schedule Bank. The aforesaid provision is applied to safeguard the provident fund deposits of the employees. However, it has been alleged that in clear departure from the statutory provisions, the accused-applicant and co-accused for the purpose of earning illicit brokerage, deposited the provident funds amounts in DHFL, a private entity and such investment was completely unsafe and hazardous. As a consequence of the illegal decisions and actions of the applicant and other co-accused, Rs. 2267.90 crores (Principal Amount) and interest of the provident funds of the employees have been dishonestly misappropriated. 28. Section 418 of the Companies Act 1956 is reproduced here under:- 29. Relevant portion of the notification dated 2nd March, 2015 issued by Ministry of Finance is reproduced hereunder:- The portfolio invested under this sub-category of securities shall not be in excess of 10% of the total portfolio of the fund. Units of Mutual Funds set up as dedicated funds for investment in Govt. securities and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board ofIndia: Basel III Tier-I bonds issued by scheduled commercial banks under RBI Guidelines: Provided that the aggregate portfolio invested in such mutual funds shall not be in excess of 5% of the total portfolio of the fund at any point in time and the fresh investment in such mutual funds shall not be in excess of 5% of the fresh accretions invested in the year. Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)/Index Funds regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India that replicate the portfolio of either BSE Sensex Index or NSE Nifty 50Index. ETFs issued by SEBI regulated Mutual Funds constructed specifically for disinvestment of shareholding of the Government of India in body corporates. Exchange traded derivatives regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India having the underlying of any permissible listed stock or any of the permissible indices, with the sole purpose of hedging. Provided that the portfolio invested in derivatives in terms of contract value shall not be in excess of 5% of the total portfolio invested in sub-categories (a) to (d) above. Minimum 5% and
 
upto 15% (v)
 
Asset Backed, Trust Structured and Miscellaneous Investments
 
Commercial mortgage based Securities or Residential mortgage based securities. Units issued by Real Estate Investment Trusts regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Asset Backed Securities regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Units of Infrastructure Investment Trusts regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Provided that investment under this category No. (v) shall only be in listed instruments or fresh issues that are proposed to be listed. Provided further that investment under this category shall be made only in such securities which have minimum AA or equivalent rating in the applicable rating scale from at least two credit rating agencies registered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agency) Regulations, 1999. Provided further that in case of the sub-categories (b) and (d) the ratings shall relate to the rating of the sponsor entity floating the trust. Provided further that if the securities/entities have been rated by more than two rating agencies, the two lowest of the ratings shall be considered. Upto 5% 30. Heard Mr. J.N. Mathur, Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Nadeem Murtaza and Amit Singh Bhadauriya, learned counsels for the applicant, Mr. V.K  Shahi, learned Additional Advocate General and Mr. Anurag Verma, learned A.G.A. for the State. 31. The accused-applicant was appointed as Managing Director of U.P.P.C.L. on 31.12.2012 and he worked in that capacity till 23rd March, 2017 as per the affidavit filed in support of the bail application. 32. It is submitted that on 17.12.2016, the then Secretary Trust, Mr. P.K. Gupta, the then Director (Finance), Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi who are authorized persons for financial matters as per the Trust-deed and as per resolution dated 21.04.2014, came to the office of the accused along with the prepared resolution to invest the amount in P.N.B. Housing Finance Ltd. They apprised the accused-applicant that quotations were taken from nationalized banks which were providing interest rates between 5% to 6% and the employees were to be paid @ 8% interest, therefore, a decision has been taken to invest the amount in P.N.B. Housing Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Punjab National Bank. P.N.B. Housing Finance offered rate of interest @ 7.2%. It has further been submitted that the aforesaid decision was in accordance with guidelines/notification of the Central Government dated 2nd March, 2015. There has been no mala fide intention on the part of the accused-applicant in agreeing to the proposal for investing in the P.N.B. Housing Finance Ltd. 33. It has been further submitted that the accused-applicant has tendered his resignation on 16th March, 2017, however, the same was accepted by His Excellency, Governor of U.P. only on 23.03.2017. The accused-applicant had no knowledge of the investment of funds in D.H.F.L. It has further been submitted that the decision to invest in D.H.F.L. is taken by circulation/rotation in the minutes of meeting which has been placed before the applicant in his office on 22.03.2017. 34. It is further submitted that the decision to invest in the DHFL was approved by the Board of trustees in its meeting held on 22-24th April 2017 in which Mr Sanjay Agrawal, Chairman UPPCL and Trust, Mr. A.P. Mishra, (the accused-applicant) Managing Director, UPPCL, Mr. Satya Prakash Pandey, Director (P & A) U.P.P.C.L. and Trustee, Mr Sudhanshu Dwivedi, the Director (Finance) and Mr. P. K. Gupta, General Manager (F & A,) Secretary (Trust) were present. It is further submitted that all these persons had signed the resolution. It is said that Sanjay Agrawal was the Chairman who signed the resolution but he has not been made the accused as he is an influential person. It is further submitted that the decision on investment was not taken with a mala fide intention and, there is nothing in evidence which would connect illegal gratification/commission having been paid to the accused-applicant by DHFL in lieu of investment made. He has further submitted that he acted with due care and with bona fide intention and there is no criminality involved for which he is being prosecuted. Investments made in DHFL were for earning better rate of interest in favour of the employees and the FIR in question has been lodged in a hurried manner and name of the accused-applicant has been surfaced during the course of investigation and he has no concern with the offence and, therefore, the accused-applicant should be enlarged on bail. 35. Mr. V.K. Shahi, learned Additional Advocate General has submitted that the management and investment of the GPF/PPF amount of all the 42000 employees of the Power Corporation was required to be carried out in conformity with GPF Rules, 2000, CPF Rules, 2004 and the Gazette notification of Government of India dated 2nd March, 2015. These rules specifically provide that the investment is to be made in accordance with the rules and the notifications issued by the Government of India. He, therefore, has submitted that there is no substance in the submission of the learned counsel for the accused-applicant that the Government of India notification dated 2nd March, 2015 has no application in respect of the two Trusts whose money was invested in DHFL. He has further submitted that the notification dated 2nd March, 2015, spells out in detail the investment patterns, which is required to be followed and adhered to in making investments of CPF amounts. He has further submitted that investment in DHFL has been made in blatant violation of the guidelines, contained in the notification dated 2nd March, 2015 as well as GPF Rules, 2000 and CPF Rules 2004 as well as provisions of Indian Trust Act and Indian Companies Act, 1956. 36. It has been further submitted that the Managing Director, Director (Finance) and Secretary of U.P.P.C.L. being trustees were under duty and responsibility to invest GPF and CPF contributions of the employees safely and in accordance with law. However, for the illicit purposes of earning brokerage amount, the accused-applicant in connivance with the Secretary, P. K. Gupta and Director (Finance), Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi invested GPF and CPF contributions of the employees in GPF and CPF Trusts illegally and unsafely invested in the shape of FDRs in DHFL, a company with ulterior motive to earn illicit brokerage from DHFL. 37. It has been further submitted that the decisions regarding investment of PF amount, could have been taken only by the Board of trustees, however, in the instant case no meeting of Board of trustees was convened and on 17th December, 2016. The applicant, Mr, Praveen Kumar Gupta and Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi, co-accused took a decision for investment of provident fund amount in PNB Housing Finance without any authority of law to earn illicit brokerage. Subsequently, the investment was made in LIC Finance Company in defiance of the provision of law and stipulation. In the same series on 16th March 2017, the investments were unlawfully made in DHFL. To ratify the investments so made and in furtherance of illegal and malafide designs, allegedly a meeting of the Board of trustees was convened on 24th March, 2017 by circulation. The minutes of the said meeting were also found to be false, forged and fictitious. Mr Sanjay Agrawal, a senior IAS official has mentioned in his statement that his alleged signatures on the minutes of meeting, allegedly convened on 24th March, 2017 are forged and fictitious. A true copy of the report of the Forensic Science Laboratory, Uttar Pradesh, Mahanagar, Lucknow in respect of the forged signature in the minutes of alleged meeting of the Board dated 24th March, 2017 has been placed on record along with the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the State. It has been found that the signatures of Mr Sanjay Agrawal on the minutes of the alleged meeting of the Board of Trustees held on 24.03.2017 are forged and he did not append his signatures. He has further submitted that the minutes of meeting of the Board allegedly held on 24.03.2017 would show that the applicant was present on 24.03.2017 and he has appended the signature on the said date. If he had tendered his resignation on 17.03.2017 and his resignation was accepted on 23.03.2017, it is strange that how he could have been present in the alleged meeting of the Board held on 24.03.2017. 38. Thus, it is submitted that only the Board of Trustees comprising 10 members was empowered to take appropriate decisions with regard to investment of CPF and GPF amounts. However, the accused-applicant being Managing Director, P.K. Gupta,(Secretary,Trust) and Mr. Sudhanshu Dwivedi, Director (Finance) of U.P.P.C.L. and trustee in furtherance of criminal conspiracy and to earn illicit brokerage amount, without convening any meeting of the Board of trustees, carried out authorized and illegal investments of the provident fund amounts in clear breach and violation of the Rules and provisions of Indian Trust Act and Companies Act, Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and Government of India notifications. 39. It has been further submitted that the amount of brokerage was transmitted from DHFL to 14 companies including Alpine Associates, a company run and operated by one Ashish Chaudhari, a close confidant of accused, Abhinav Gupta s/o Mr. P. K. Gupta. The brokerage amount was subsequently transferred to several other firms through RTGS with the assistance of certain Chartered Accountants. The said firms in turn, for the purposes of justifying their proscribed money, made cash payments to several Chartered Accountants and the money after exchange of several hand, reached Abhinav Gupta s/o Praveen Kumar Gupta, Secretary (Trust). 40. Mr. Abhinav Gupta has stated in his statement before the investigating officer that a sum of approximately 30 crores was received as brokerage from C.A., Lalit Goyal and, the said amount was divided amongst the present accused-applicant, Director (Finance) and P.K.Gupta (Secretary,Trust). A copy of the statement given by accused, Abhinav Gupta has been placed on record with the counter affidavit. 41. I have considered the submissions and the provisions of the relevant rules and the Acts carefully. 42. The investments were made on 16th March, 2017 without there being any authorization of the Board of Trustees, but to justify the investment forged minutes of meeting allegedly held on 24th March, 2017 were prepared on which signature of the Chairman, Mr Sanjay Agrawal were forged. Statement of Abhinav Gupta s/o Praveen Kumar Gupta has prima facie disclosed that the brokerage amount of Rs.30 crores was given by DHFL for making investment and this brokerage amount was divided among three accused. The acts of commission and omission of the accused along with other co-accused have caused huge loss to the two trusts created for the welfare of poor 42000 employees of the threee electricity corporations out of their hard earned money. 43. The economic crime of such scale and magnitude are carefully and meticulously planned and executed. It is well settled that economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of accusations, magnitude and gravity of offence and nature of evidence in support of the accusations. 44. The Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy vs CBI : (2013) 7 SCC 439 in paras 34 and 35 in respect of granting bail in economic offences having deep rooted conspiracy and large public money involved has held as under:- 45. The Supreme Court in the case of Nimmagadda Prasad vs CBI : (2013) 7 SCC 466 has observed that the alarming rise in white collar crimes has affected the fibre of country's economic structure. Economic offences have serious repercussions on the development of the country as a whole. Economic offences constitute a class apart and a different approach has to be adopted in the matter of bail. Para 23 to 25 of the aforesaid judgment are extracted hereinbelow:- 24. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and other similar considerations. It has also to be kept in mind that for the purpose of granting bail, the legislature has used the words "reasonable grounds for believing" instead of "the evidence" which means the court dealing with the grant of bail can only satisfy itself as to whether there is a genuine case against the accused and that the prosecution will be able to produce prima facie evidence in support of the charge. It is not expected, at this stage, to have the evidence establishing the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 25. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic offence having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds needs to be viewed seriously and considered as a grave offence affecting the economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the financial health of the country." 46. In judgment rendered in the case of State of Bihar Vs. Amit Kumar (2017) 13 SCC 751, it has been held that while considering the bail involving socio-economic offences stringent parameters should be applied. Paras 8-9 of the said judgment are extracted hereunder:- 47. Further, the aforesaid view has been reiterated in the case of Rohit Tandon vs Directorate of enforcement (2018) 11 SSC 46. Paras 21 and 22 of the aforesaid judgement read as under:- 48. The Supreme Court in its judgment in Serious Fraud Investigation Office Vs. Nitin Johri and another , (2019) 9 SCC 165, while considering the factors to be taken into account while considering the bail involving serious economic offences in para 24-27 has held as under:- This Court has adopted this position in several decisions, including Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of Enforcement [Gautam Kundu v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2015) 16 SCC 1 : (2016) 3 SCC (Cri) 603] and State of Bihar v. Amit Kumar [State of Bihar v. Amit Kumar, (2017) 13 SCC 751 : (2017) 4 SCC (Cri) 771] . Thus, it is evident that the above factors must be taken into account while determining whether bail should be granted in cases involving grave economic offences. 25. As already discussed supra, it is apparent that the Special Court, while considering the bail applications filed by Respondent 1 both prior and subsequent to the filing of the investigation report and complaint, has attempted to account not only for the conditions laid down in Section 212(6) of the Companies Act, but also of the general principles governing the grant of bail. 26. In our considered opinion, the High Court in the impugned order has failed to apply even these general principles. The High Court, after referring to certain portions of the complaint to ascertain the alleged role of Respondent 1, came to the conclusion that the role attributed to him was merely that of colluding with the co-accused promoters in the commission of the offence in question. The Court referred to the principles governing the grant of bail as laid down by this Court in Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of Maharashtra [Ranjitsing Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of Maharashtra, (2005) 5 SCC 294 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1057] , which discusses the effect of the twin mandatory conditions pertaining to the grant of bail for offences under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 as laid down in Section 21(4) thereof, similar to the conditions embodied in Section 212(6)(ii) of the Companies Act. However, the High Court went on to grant bail to Respondent 1 by observing that bail was justified on the "broad probabilities" of the case. 27. In our considered opinion, this vague observation demonstrates non-application of mind on the part of the Court even under Section 439 CrPC, even if we keep aside the question of satisfaction of the mandatory requirements under Section 212(6)(ii) of the Companies Act." 49. The present case involves a scam of huge magnitude involving money of 42000 employees of three Electricity Corporations who had invested it with a hope that they would get good return on it at the time they would need money. Trust has been breached in criminal conspiracy by the accused which has resulted huge loss to the two Trusts resultantly to the employees. The accused is an influential person. The money trail is yet to be completely discovered and, therefore, at this stage, the accused-applicant cannot be released on bail. 50. The trial court in a well considered order has rejected the bail application of the accused applicant. I have not been persuaded to take a different view than the view taken by the trial court. 51. In view thereof, the bail application of the accused-applicant is rejected. Order Date :- 10.4.2020
 
prateek