SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What does r/India think of Bitcoin? India must act now or miss out on this emerging technology.
DATE: 2017-06-04
SCORE: 42
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6f3v9z/what_does_rindia_think_of_bitcoin_india_must_act/

--- POST TEXT ---

Bitcoin currently has grown so much in size that its market cap is bigger than any of USA's top airlines. Yes, these are Airlines like Delta with hundred's and hundreds of Boeing airplanes in their fleet connecting every city of America yet a simple technology run on a computer has usurped all these airlines. No mean feat. 

Australia and Japan have completely legalized BTC and it is being used as tender for everything from grocery to cars, South Korea as well, even Malaysia's btc market is booming. 

Meanwhile Indian Gov is actively trying to play down BTC, some ministers are still calling it scam, play of the devil, likening it with "chit funds" etc. What the fuck is wrong with the finance brains and the IT brains of our country that we (as a country) are missing out on the biggest IT development since world wide web thanks to illiterates talking their talk. 

And Im not talking about middle men like "Zebpay" and "Unocoin" - Bitcoin was invented to cut these middlemen out of the chain, yet these are the ones who are profiting selling BTC to Indians at a 25% markup price and taking a hefty commission. 

We are also giving a big play to more middle men companies like PayTM who are trying to reinvent the currency wheel and are doing such a bad job at it, yet most Indians will tell you that PAYTM is the best and Bitcoin is a scam. Currency wallets (payment banks) are outdated by atleast 5 years, they were big in 2010 in the USA and today nobody uses them - yet PAYTM is such a big rage here - outdated technology, very poor profitablity, the PAYTM business exists only to support its CEO and turn him into a Billionaire while the rest of the PAYTM user base suffers from lack of basic communication access with Paytm.

Make no mistake, India will follow the rest of the world eventually, as we always do, and end up accepting BTC in 2020, but by that time the world would have already moved on and derived the most out of bitcoin. Many businesses are already hedging their funds vs BTC or investing part of their profits into BTC and the growth of 2500% since 2015 will only make more companies turn to BTC. 

Im sure many smart Indians have already started to see the potential of BTC, lets use this thread to discuss the market in India.