SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My brother was cheated in a credit card update fraud, which highlighted the pathetic condition of the cyber cell in India.
DATE: 2015-02-14
SCORE: 120
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2vuyho/my_brother_was_cheated_in_a_credit_card_update/

--- POST TEXT ---

So, my brother fell for the classic con: "Sir, we are replacing your credit card with a new one, and we need some information so that you can avoid losing the gift points collected so far." Yep...he fell for it...we all know it happens, but still it happened. The caller knew 80% of the information, she (yeah, she) told him his birth date, the card's expiry date, even the entire 12 digit credit card number and all but the last 3 digits written on the back of the card. I believe they got this number from some 'secure' online transaction place from where my brother must have made some purchase, I dunno..but let this be a warning to all you folks, be alert, the people who fall for the trap are often people who know the trap too well!

My brother was duped for Rs. 5000. Someone recharged his airtel number with this card. So, we have the airtel number, we have the transaction ID, we even have the number of the woman who called! Seems pretty simple to catch those guys, right? Not quite. We approached the cyber cell of our city. Those guys told us that they literally have the identities of many such guilty people who have done similar frauds in the past, but they can't do much. They said that they don't even get reimbursed properly for the expenses they make to other cities. Often times, these culprits are Delhi or Chandigarh based, and making a trip, staying there for a week, coordinating with the local police, etc. is just not worth it for 5000 rupees. The cyber cell 'there' doesn't supposedly handle these cases, they need to be tackled by the cyber cell at the victim's end, or so they say. The case ends up being transferred from here to there to here. 

He showed us a list of culprits, he said we track them in a matter of minutes if not hours, but the game stops there, for the case keeps juggling between jurisdictions. All the cyber cells are busy transferring cases to one another under some pretext instead of solving them. 

The entire tone of his conversation seemed to show a guy who began his work as an earnest person, fully ready to use his knowledge and technology to do his work earnestly, but over the time, grew disappointed with the system and now, just works as much as the system easily allows him to work easily. He said that the perpetrators know that no one is going to take the efforts to track amounts as less as 5,000 or 10,000 rupees, and know that they will get away with it. I know, the guy needs to do his job and not be lazy and stuff, but I can very well understand the fact that he is not going to go through the entire trouble for someone's Rs. 5,000.