SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Somnath Bharti, AAP, Racism and Media.
DATE: 2014-01-21
SCORE: 6
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1vr7kk/somnath_bharti_aap_racism_and_media/

--- POST TEXT ---

This was a post on Quora and I am only cross posting here since Quora links are not viewable without logging in. This post is NOT written by me and though the writer's name is present on the quora post, I thought it would be better to avoid the name since a search is enough to find it.

People hurling abuses at the law minister of Delhi, calling him racist, just on the basis of media reports, should know that the media earns its livelihood through exaggeration. The ‘racist/xenophobic’ angle given to the whole story was a pathetic and a desperate attempt to gain TRPs. And I am ashamed and disappointed to say that it was successful to some extent.

First of all, I would like to clarify to people that it was not ‘vigilantism’ and there was no mob involved, as it has been portrayed. Here are the facts of the matter - 

The residents of Khirki Extension who’d filed a complaint to the law minister against certain people of Nigerian and Ugandan ethnicity, had written numerous letters to the SHO, DCP and even the home ministry, describing the plight of having to deal with prostitution and drug dealings happening before their eyes, every single day. Needless to say, their complaints were not handled with the kind of seriousness they deserved.

It was after all these failed attempts that they wrote to the Law minister of Delhi, describing the situation.
The law minister acted immediately. He called up the cops, asked them to accompany him, without telling them which house they were going to visit. 
He reached Khirki Extension, saw the drug and sex trade going on before his eyes. 
The moment the police officers got to know who they were investigating, they stopped co-operating, turned rebellious and accused the minister of preventing them from doing their duty. They came up with a very lame excuse of not having a warrant to search that place. 
Under section 42 of the Narcotics Act, no warrant is required if the police has to raid a place where people have been accused of dealing in drugs.

Well, I have broken the law a lot of times, by partying even after 10pm. Did the police need a warrant to raid my house that time? No, but they did.

Mr Somnath Bharti had made it very clear that he has no intentions of harming the reputation of Ugandans, Nigerians or any other people of any race or ethnicity. But if they violate the code of conduct of the society, indulge in activities that are illegal, then they deserve to be punished.

Do you remember the curious case of Vikram Buddhi, the person who suffered severe racial abuse in the United States of America? I am sure you don’t. Because it wasn’t given much importance by the media, and the ‘so-called’ leaders of our country refused to take any action because Vikram Buddhi wasn’t a diplomat or a person of national/international eminence. 

It was the same law minister of Delhi, Mr. Somnath Bharti, who went to US, on his own expense, and fought for the victim. Where was the media then? Where were these ‘protectors of society’ , who are now trying to bask in the glory of their political cunningness, by giving a ‘racial’ twist to this whole story, which actually is a crusade against the drug and sex racket in Delhi.

There was no harassing of the women, there was no lynching, no manhandling and no forced blood tests. The law minister was just acting on the complains made by the RWA ( Residents Welfare Association) of Khirki Extension, Delhi. He didn’t know that the Delhi police shared an extremely cordial relation with the drug dealers and violators of the social code of conduct, hence he invited trouble for himself. And now he is being portrayed as xenophobic, a hater of Africans/Ugandans/Nigerians, which is preposterous. What is worse, this is being spiced up by the media, just to gain some TRPs. Somehow, this episode just seems to give credence to the claim that some sections of the media are biased and paid mouthpieces of political parties.

The people protesting against the ‘alleged’ mistreatment of Devyani Khobragade, that lady who’d blatantly violated the laws of the State, that lady who was underpaying her maid, that lady who committed a serious Visa fraud, that lady who owns two houses in the notorious ‘Adarsh Society’, are ready to spoil their diplomatic relations with the United States by defending a criminal. But these same people are refusing to spoil their ‘beautiful’ relationship with Uganda, by acting against a few Ugandans accused of carrying out a sex and drug racket, and are making fun of the pathetic state of law in our country. This is the epitome of hypocrisy!

On top of that they turn this whole case into a ‘masala’ affair by giving it a racial angle.

SHAME ON THE INDIAN MEDIA! 

Also, we would continue fighting against the state of lawlessness prevalent in our country , and the media can continue doing its job of ‘ going against the wave’ and behaving like a pseudo messiah, just for mere TRPs.
 
EDIT : Link to the original 
http://www.quora.com/Nishtha-Sood/Posts/Somnaths-mistaken-vigilantism-1