In light of the Pahalgam terror attacks and India’s military response through Operation Sindoor, Indian law enforcement authorities have registered cases against individuals for social media content. Most recently, Kolkata Police arrested a law student, Sharmishtha Panoli, for a video she posted on May 7 , in which she allegedly made offensive statements against Prophet Muhammad.

According to a report by The Economic Times, the FIR against Panoli mentions that she violated Sections 196(1)(a) (promoting enmity between different groups), 299 (deliberate acts to outrage religious feelings), 352 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), and 353(1)(c) (incitement to public mischief) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (BNS).

Panoli’s case is not the only one involving a Section 353 violation. In fact, there have been several such cases in the recent past. For instance, Haryana Police arrested Ashoka University professor Ali Khan Mahmudabad for his social media posts analysing India’s military response to the terror attacks in Pahalgam. A straight reading of Section 353 appears to target misinformation; however, its use in cases like that of Professor Mahmudabad indicates the potentially overreaching nature of the clause. As MediaNama has previously reported , law enforcement tends to use the public mischief provision to take action against online criticism, especially when directed at government officials.

Even before the BNS was notified, public mischief cases were common under the Indian Penal Code, where the offence was listed under Section 505 . The only major change between Section 505 and Section 353 is the explicit inclusion of electronic means of disseminating information, which has the potential to increase government control over digital discourse.

As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, between 2017 and 2022, law enforcement authorities registered 4280 cases under the provision.

National Crime Record Bureau. NCRB: Cases of fake/false news and rumours registered under Section 505 of IPC [Data set]. Dataful. https://dataful.in/datasets/457

In a conversation with MediaNama about public mischief, Software Freedom Law Center ( SLFC.in ) founder Mishi Choudhary stated that it is difficult to know how many cases have been registered under the public mischief clause since the BNS came into effect on July 1, 2024 .

Choudhary told MediaNama that Uttar Pradesh law enforcement is notorious for using the public mischief section. As per NCRB data, the state registered 504 cases between 2017 and 2022. The majority of these were registered in 2022 (147 cases) and 2020 (166 cases).

There are multiple examples of alleged online public mischief cases in the state. In April this year , the police lodged FIRs against University of Lucknow assistant professor Madri Kakoti (known online as Dr Medusa) and folk singer Neha Singh Rathore for comments made about Operation Sindoor. Prior to this, in July 2024 , UP Police filed FIRs against five journalists under the public mischief provision for their tweets about a mob lynching incident in the state.

Besides Uttar Pradesh, other states that frequently use the public mischief provision include Telangana (856 cases) and Madhya Pradesh (559 cases).

Based on NCRB data, a large portion of public mischief cases that reach court remain pending. Pendency rates peaked in 2019 at 94.4% but declined to 69.3% by 2022. In contrast, conviction rates have fluctuated—reaching a high of 72.6% in 2017 and a low of 33.3% in 2019. As of 2022, the conviction rate stands at 60.4%.

National Crime Record Bureau. NCRB: Year-wise Court disposal of cases of fake/false news and rumours registered under Section 505 of IPC [Data set]. Dataful. https://dataful.in/datasets/459

Raman Jit Singh Chima, the Senior International Counsel and Asia Pacific Policy Director for Access Now, previously told MediaNama that courts do not consider criticism, by itself, to be public mischief. He explained that courts have pushed back in cases where law enforcement invoked the provision to act against content. He cited the example of the 2023 court case involving journalist Makepeace Sitlhou, where the Supreme Court immediately stayed the mischief charge.

However, in certain cases—such as that of law student Sharmishtha Panoli—courts have sided with the police. On June 3 , during a bail hearing for Panoli, the Calcutta High Court denied bail, noting that her alleged comment hurt the sentiments of a section of people in the country. “We have freedom of speech and expression; that does not mean that you will go on and hurt the sentiments of others,” Justice Partha Sarthi Chatterjee noted while hearing the case.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event