Hello My name is Vivek Pal, I have been invited on event of property held in Mumbai andheri location they have shown me one property related to my budget once I was done with all the formality from them they were asking for token amount by giving the discount on rate. When I said I have to ask to my family t once they will see physically than I will given token that time they are forcing me to give token. By saying its 100 percent refundable once your family show not interested we will return your token . Initially they demanded for 1 lakh after I have rejected they come back to 51 thousand and said this is the minimum token amount you have to pay sir it's refundable by saying this will be under our portal if you give this to builder than its not refundable. In the mean time they have send me payment link to on whatsapp saying please pay when I ask them to give me on written than in some time I received one email from there manager they mentioned it's refundable amount if you are not interested later. So I have given the token on trusting on his statement and written mail. Later I went home and discuss with family that we have to go to location to see property so I have decided to go on location Sunday there my family see the location after we went to home my family said location is not good take your refund. Than I sent mail on the same chain that my family is no more interested on the project I need refund so they said we are working on it will take 2 days. After 2 day when I am calling they not picking up call and not giving response on mail when I said I will take legal action that time only they picked up call and said to me we are working on it. it will take 10 to 12 days so I said you have given me commitment that it will get refund in short period than where is your commitment? Than they saying same thing we are working on it when I am asking for date they are not giving any date just saying same thing we are working on it. I would like to request you to please look to this matter imigiately as they are doing very bad with poor people. They organize event and do same thing with many people actually it's illegal type of business they are doing by giving fake commitment to customer I want everyone who is doing this should behind bar or need to take strict action among them. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (3)