The Press Information Bureau (PIB) has issued a warning against fraudulent emails, bearing the signatures and seals of various authorities, that accuse the recipient of sexual offences. The Government has asked citizens to not respond to such emails and report such cases to the nearest police station/cyber police station.

These emails contain an attached letter that features the signatures, stamps and logos of authorities like Delhi Police Cyber Crime and Economic Offence, Central Economic Intelligence Bureau (CEIB), Intelligence Bureau and Cyber Cell, Delhi and accuses the recipient of crimes such as child pornography, pedophilia, cyber pornography, sexually explicit exhibit and grooming. It makes reference to section 14 of the POCSO Act 2012, Section 292, Section 67A and Section 67B of the IT Act 2000. The letter asks the recipient to respond to the letter and “provide justification for further review” or sanctions may be imposed within 24 hours.

The report states that police authorities have been alerted for taking necessary action in the matter.

India ranked third highest worldwide for the number of phishing attempts encountered in 2023, according to a cybersecurity report with a recorded 79.1 million attempts at phishing. At a UN Ad Hoc Committee discussing cybercrime, it called for specific attention to be given to the problem of phishing, calling it the “predominant cybercrime globally”. Terming current measures as “inadequate,” India proposed using a ‘24×7 global communication network’ to tackle the problem, facilitating information exchange between Law Enforcement Agencies and “swiftly rendering phishing links inaccessible and identifying the abused IT resources and the malicious actor.”

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event