1. Rule returnable forthwith. Learned APP Mr. Dhawan
Jayswal waives service of notice of rule for and on behalf of the
respondent-State and Mr. Kumar Trivedi waives service of
notice of rule for and on behalf of the respondent No.1. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined 2. The present application is filed under Section 439 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, for regular bail in connection
with the FIR being C.R. No.I-11205035230524 of 2023
registered with the Nakhatrana Police Station, Kachchh West
Bhuj of the offence punishable under Sections 306 , 389 , 120B , 34 and 201 of IPC. 3. Learned senior advocate Mr. Jal Unwalla assisted by
learned advocate Mr. Darshan Varandani appearing for the
applicant submits that the present applicant-accused was
arrested on 02.01.2024 and since then he is in jail. He also
submits that in the present case, the investigation has already
been concluded and the charge-sheet has also been filed.
Learned senior advocate Mr. Unwalla further submits that the
first information report has been filed against total nine
persons wherein the applicant-accused has been shown as
accused No.6. The applicant-accused is an advocate by
profession. There is a delay in filing the FIR as the incident took
place during the period between 04.05.2023 and 03.06.2023,
for which, the FIR came to be lodged on 05.06.2023, and as
such, there is a delay of two days in registering the FIR.
Learned senior advocate Mr. Unwalla also submits that the
entire controversy began with the registration of the FIR
against the deceased by the accused No.2, due to which he
committed suicide. He further submits that the allegations
against the applicant-accused are that the applicant-accused,
along with the other co-accused, hatched a criminal conspiracy
to extort Rs.4 Crore from the deceased by tricking him in a
honey trap, for which, the accused No.2 has been used as a Page 2 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

tool. The accused persons succeeded in their attempt and an
FIR under Section 376 of the IPC was lodged against the
deceased, due to which, apprehending defamation in the
Society, the deceased committed suicide. Learned senior
advocate Mr. Unwalla submits that during the course of
investigation of the FIR filed by the accused No.2 against the
deceased, statement of the complainant was recorded wherein
she has described the entire sequence of events of the
incident in a very graphical manner and what was stated by
the accused No.2 in the said statement, has been picked and
pasted in the impugned FIR and, therefore, reliance cannot be
placed upon the said version of narration of facts as it is based
upon the confessional statement of the co-accused, and as
such, the basic foundation of the registration of the complaint
itself is not sustainable. The only allegation levelled against the
applicant-accused is that he has provided certain guidance to
the accused No.2 in the commission of the crime. Learned
senior advocate Mr. Unwalla submits that the applicant-
accused has been implicated in the present offence on the
basis of the confessional statement of the accused No.2 and
the impugned FIR is also based upon the same set of facts as
narrated by the accused No.2 in her confessional statement
and, therefore, when it is a settled legal position that the
confessional statement made by any accused itself is not
admissible in evidence, then the FIR based upon the same
cannot be sustained in any manner. Learned advocate Mr.
Unwalla submits that the applicant-accused never met the
deceased nor had ever talked with him. There is no Call Data
Record produced by the investigating agency showing any Page 3 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

conversation of the applicant-accused along with the
deceased. 4. Learned senior advocate Mr. Unwalla submits that the
essential ingredients to constitute offence under Section 306 are (i) the abetment (ii) the intention of the accused to aid or
instigate or abet the deceased to commit suicide. Here in the
case on hand, none of the above referred ingredients have
been made out to constitute the offence of abetment against
the applicant-accused. There should be any evidence capable
of suggesting that the accused intended by such act to
instigate the deceased to commit suicide and, therefore, it
would be travesty of justice to keep the applicant in judicial
custody. The only evidence produced against the applicant-
accused is in the form of CCTV footage to indicate his presence
at the G.K. General Hospital and at his office at Bhuj where all
the accused persons alleged to have been gathered and
prepared a plan. However, only on the basis of said evidence,
the applicant-accused cannot be dragged into the offence as
number of his clients were visiting his office in a daily routine
and it might be that the other co-accused persons also went to
his office as his clients. Learned senior advocate Mr. Jal Unwalla
further submits that the other co-accused persons, having
graver role than that of the applicant-accused, have already
been enlarged on bail either by the trial court or by this very
Court. The applicant-accused does not have any past
antecedents. Learned senior advocate Mr. Unwalla, in the last,
submits that the Hon'ble Apex Court, in the case of Bandlamuddi Atchuta Ramaiah & Anr. vs. State of A.P. ,
reported in (1996) SCC 133 held that the statement contained Page 4 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

in the FIR furnished by one of the co-accused in the case
cannot, in any manner, be used against another accused. Even
as against the accused, who made it, the statement cannot be
used if it is inculpatory in nature nor can it be used for the
purpose of corroboration or contradiction unless its maker
offers himself as a witness in the trial. The very limited use of it
as an admission under Section 21 of the Evidence Act against
its maker alone unless the admission does not amount to
confession. Admittedly, here in the case on hand, the
statement of the co-accused was recorded altogether in a
different proceedings and at the time of registration of the
impugned FIR, the prosecuting agency has put reliance upon
the said statement and by incorporating the entire statement
in the FIR, the applicant-accused has been implicated in the
present offence. 5. In such circumstances , referred to above , learned senior
advocate Mr. Unwalla prays that there being merit in his
application, the same be allowed and the applicant-accused be
released on bail. 6. On the other hand, this application has been vehemently
opposed by learned APP Mr. Dhawan Jayswal appearing for the
respondent-State looking to the nature and gravity of the
offence. Learned APP submits that the role of the present
applicant-accused is clearly spelt out from the police papers.
He further submits that the applicant-accused, in connivance
with the other co-accused, planed a conspiracy in his office to
dodge the deceased in a honey trap and the applicant-accused
is the kingpin of the entire conspiracy. It is in the office of the Page 5 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

applicant-accused that the entire conspiracy was hatched and
a script was prepared as to how the deceased can be dragged
into the honey trap, and the applicant-accused is the person
who prepared the lady accused No.2 and made her understand
how to execute her role, and by doing so, there intention was
to extort huge volume of money from the deceased
businessman by blackmailing him. Unfortunately, they
succeeded in their attempt and an FIR under Section 376 IPC
was registered against the deceased. However, as the
deceased was the reputed businessman having deep root in
the society, he could not bear the same and due to fear of
being defamed in the society, has committed the suicide.
Learned APP also submits that the applicant-accused is an
advocate by profession and very well aware about the legal
complexities. He also submits that after the occurrence of the
incident, the police began the preliminary investigation, during
which period, the entire scam has been unearthed. Moreover,
after registration of the FIR, the applicant-accused absconded
for some time and, therefore, warrant under Section 70 also
came to be issued against him. The present applicant-accused
appears to be the writer of the entire script, under whose
instructions, the entire plan has been executed. The Call Data
Record also suggests that the applicant-accused was in
constant touch with the other co-accused Komal Jethva, Aziz,
Viveksinh, Gujjugiri Goswami and Paresh Patel. The applicant-
accused also visited the G.K. General Hospital where the lady
accused No.2 was also present which is evident from the CCTV
footage of the said hospital. Learned APP submits that the
offence committed by the applicant-accused is very serious in
nature, due to which one innocent person has lost his life. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

Therefore, this is a fit case wherein discretionary power of this
Court is not required to be exercised in favour of the applicant-
accused. 7. Learned advocate Mr. Kumar Trivedi appearing for the
original complainant submits that at the time of registration of
the FIR, the prosecuting agency has put reliance upon the
statement made by the accused No.2 in the separate
proceedings and, thereafter, pursuant to the registration of the
complaint, investigation was ensued, and during the course of
investigation, on the basis of some concrete materials found
against the applicant-accused, charge-sheet came to be filed
against him. From the role attributed to the applicant-accused
in the charge-sheet papers, it appears that the applicant-
accused is the kingpin of the entire conspiracy, under whose
guidance and instructions, the other accused have played their
individual roles and, therefore, his bail application may not be
entertained and the applicant-accused may not be released on
bail. Learned advocate Mr. Trivedi further submits that apart
from the above, he has adopted all the arguments canvassed
by the learned APP and prays that the present application,
being devoid of any merit, be rejected. 8. I have heard the learned advocates appearing on behalf
of the respective parties. I have perused the police papers as
well as other documents produced by the applicant along with
the memo of the application. It is found out from the record
that the applicant-accused is in judicial custody since
02.01.2024. The investigation is already completed and after
submission of the charge-sheet, present bail application is
preferred. It appears from the materials available on record Page 7 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

that the present applicant-accused is shown as an accused
No.6 in the charge-sheet. The entire dispute arose with the
registration of complaint of rape by the lady accused No.2
against the deceased which led the deceased to commit
suicide. It appears that the applicant-accused is an advocate
by profession, and as such, as a part of his job, he has to visit
different places and has to meet with different persons or
clients and, therefore, it might be that the accused persons
went to the office of the applicant-accused regarding some
legal proceedings. The only evidence produced by the
investigating agency against the applicant-accused is in the
form of a CCTV footages of the camera installed outside his
office and of the G.K. General hospital, however, only on the
basis of the said evidence, presumption of being guilty of the
offence cannot be drawn as the said evidence speaks nothing
except the presence of the accused at a particular place and
also does not reveal anything as to whether for what purpose
the applicant-accused went to the hospital and for what
purpose the accused persons gathered at the office of the
applicant. It also appears that on the basis of the confessional
statement made by the co-accused, the name of the applicant-
accused has come on surface and it is the settled legal
proposition of law as held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in catena
of decisions that the confessional statement made by the
accused before the police is not admissible in evidence and
cannot be used as a piece of evidence against any other
accused, rather the same cannot be made an evidence against
its maker also. It also appears from the record that the
applicant-accused never met the deceased nor had ever talked
to the deceased. There is no evidence produced on record Page 8 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

establishing any nexus between the applicant-accused and the
deceased. 9. So far as the allegations of abetment are concerned, in
order to bring a case within the purview of Section 306 IPC
there must be a case of suicide and in the commission of the
said offence, the person who is said to have abetted the
commission of suicide must have played an active role by an
act of instigation or by doing certain act to facilitate the
commission of suicide. This aspect is missing in this case. It is
apparent on the face of the record that there is no evidence on
record to indicate that the applicant-accused had contacted
the deceased or had talked to the deceased at any point of
time. In this regard, I may quote with profit the relevant
observations made by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab reported in (2020) 10 SCC
200, which reads as under; 14. The definition quoted above makes it clear that
 whenever a person instigates or intentionally aids by any
 act or illegal omission, the doing of a thing, a person can
 be said to have abetted in doing that thing. 15. As in all crimes, mens rea has to be established. To
 prove the offence of abetment, as specified under Section Page 9 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

 107 IPC , the state of mind to commit a particular crime
 must be visible, to determine the culpability. In order to
 prove mens rea, there has to be something on record to
 establish or show that the appellant herein had a guilty
 mind and in furtherance of that state of mind, abetted
 the suicide of the deceased. The ingredient of mens rea
 cannot be assumed to be ostensibly present but has to
 be visible and conspicuous. However, what transpires in
 the present matter is that both the trial court as well as
 the High Court never examined whether the appellant
 had the mens rea for the crime he is held to have
 committed. The conviction of the appellant by the trial
 court as well as the High Court on the theory that the
 woman with two young kids might have committed
 suicide possibly because of the harassment faced by her
 in the matrimonial house is not at all borne out by the
 evidence in the case. Testimonies of the PWs do not show
 that the wife was unhappy because of the appellant and
 she was forced to take such a step on his account. 16. The necessary ingredients for the offence under Section 306 IPC were considered in S.S. Chheena v. Vijay
 Kumar Mahajan [S.S. Chheena v. Vijay Kumar Mahajan,
 (2010) 12 SCC 190 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 465] where
 explaining the concept of abetment, Dalveer Bhandari, J.
 wrote as under : (SCC p. 197, para 25)

 "25. Abetment involves a mental process of
 instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person
 in doing of a thing. Without a positive act on the
 part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing
 suicide, conviction cannot be sustained. The
 intention of the legislature and the ratio of the
 cases decided by this Court is clear that in order to
 convict a person under Section 306 IPC there has to
 be a clear mens rea to commit the offence. It also
 requires an active act or direct act which led the
 deceased to commit suicide seeing no option and
 that act must have been intended to push the
 deceased into such a position that he committed
 suicide." 17. While dealing with a case of abetment of suicide in Page 10 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

 Amalendu Pal v. State of W.B. [Amalendu Pal v. State of
 W.B., (2010) 1 SCC 707 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 896] , Dr M.K.
 Sharma, J. writing for the Division Bench explained the
 parameters of Section 306 IPC in the following terms : 18. In Mangat Ram v. State of Haryana [Mangat Ram v.
 State of Haryana, (2014) 12 SCC 595 : (2014) 5 SCC (Cri)
 127] , which again was a case of wife's unnatural death,
 speaking for the Division Bench, K.S.P. Radhakrishnan, J.
 rightly observed as under : (SCC p. 606, para 24)

 "24. We find it difficult to comprehend the
 reasoning of the High Court [Mangat Ram v. State of Page 11 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

 Haryana, Criminal Appeal No. 592-SB of 1997,
 decided on 27-5-2008 (P&H)] that "no prudent man
 is to commit suicide unless abetted to do so". A
 woman may attempt to commit suicide due to
 various reasons, such as, depression, financial
 difficulties, disappointment in love, tired of
 domestic worries, acute or chronic ailments and so
 on and need not be due to abetment. The reasoning
 of the High Court that no prudent man will commit
 suicide unless abetted to do so by someone else, is
 a perverse reasoning." 10. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case as
also the nature of allegations, arguments advanced by learned
counsel for the parties, the period for which the applicant is in
jail, contents of FIR as also essentials to attract Section 306 IPC
and without expressing any opinion on merits of the case, I
find it to be a fit case for enlarging the applicant on bail. 11. Hence, the present application is allowed and the
applicant is ordered to be released on regular bail in
connection with FIR being C.R. No.I-11205035230524 of 2023
registered with the Nakhatrana Police Station, Kachchh West
Bhuj, on executing a personal bond of Rs.15,000/- (Rupees
Fifteen Thousand only) with one surety of the like amount to
the satisfaction of the trial Court and subject to the conditions
that he shall; [a] not take undue advantage of liberty or misuse liberty; [b] not act in a manner injuries to the interest of the
 prosecution; [c] surrender passport, if any, to the lower court within a
 week; NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/6844/2024 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 30/04/2024

 undefined

 [d] not leave the State of Gujarat without prior
 permission of the Sessions Judge concerned; [e] mark presence before the concerned Police Station on
 alternate Monday of every English calendar month for a
 period of six months between 11:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.; [f] furnish the present address of residence to the
 Investigating Officer and also to the Court at the time of
 execution of the bond and shall not change the residence
 without prior permission of this Court; 12. The authorities will release the applicant only if he is not
required in connection with any other offence for the time
being. If breach of any of the above conditions is committed,
the Sessions Judge concerned will be free to issue warrant or
take appropriate action in the matter. Bail bond to be executed
before the lower Court having jurisdiction to try the case. It will
be open for the concerned Court to delete, modify and/or relax
any of the above conditions, in accordance with law. 13. At the trial, the trial Court shall not be influenced by the
observations of preliminary nature qua the evidence at this
stage made by this Court while enlarging the applicant on bail. 14. The present application stands allowed accordingly. Rule
is made absolute to the aforesaid extent. Direct service is permitted. (DIVYESH A. JOSHI,J)
VAHID Page 13 of 13 Downloaded on : Tue Apr 30 20:52:22 IST 2024