V.S. SIRPURKAR, J 1. Two companies, first being M/s.Tata Industries Ltd., and the second

being M/s. Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited

(hereinafter referred to Applicant Nos.1 and 2 respectively) have

approached this Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") for appointment

of the Arbitrator in a commercial dispute which has arisen between them

and Grasim Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as "the non-

applicant"). Initially the applicants had approached Bombay High Court by

way of an application under Section 11(6) of the Act, however, a stand was

taken by the non-applicant that this would amount to an international 2 commercial arbitration and, therefore, it would be the Chief Justice of India

alone who would have the powers to constitute the Arbitral Tribunal under Section 11(12) of the Act. It is, therefore, that the matter has come before

this Court. The parties are ad idem on this jurisdictional issue that the

jurisdiction to appoint the Arbitrator lies with the Chief Justice of India or as

the case may be, his nominee. 2. There is no dispute between the parties that there is an arbitration

agreement between the parties vide Clause 12.04 of the Shareholders

Agreement dated 15.12.2000 and Clause 9 of the Share Transfer

Agreement dated 1.6.2006. That issue need not, therefore, be dilated

upon. 3. The parties are also ad idem that the claims are within limitation. 4. The only question to be decided, on which the parties have

extensively argued, is whether there is a live arbitrable issue. 5. Following background facts would help to understand the

controversy between the parties. 6. M/s.Tata Industries Limited (hereinafter referred to as "TIL") is a

company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 (Applicant

No.1) while Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited

(Applicant No.2) is a company incorporated under the Laws of Mauritius. 3 The Applicant No.2 has its registered office at Mauritius while non-applicant

M/s.Grasim is also a company incorporated under the Indian Companies

Act, 1956 . 7. Tata Cellular Limited (hereinafter called the "TCL") had obtained a

CMTS licence for Andhra Pradesh Circle on 19.12.2005. Similarly, Birla

AT &T Communications Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "BACL") which was

a joint venture undertaking of A.V. Birla Group and AT&T Wireless Group

held CMTS licences for Maharashtra and Gujarat Circles since 15.12.1995.

Tata Teleservices Limited (hereinafter referred to as "TTSL") was granted a

basic service licence for Andhra Pradesh Circle on 4.11.1997. A

Memorandum of Understanding was arrived at between AT&T Wireless

Inc., AV Birla Group and Tata Industries Limited on 1st March, 2000

whereby they agreed to provide CMTS service through a single entity. As

per this Memorandum of Understanding AT&T Wireless Inc., AV Birla

Group and TIL agreed to provide services through a single entity or an

alliance of entities and agreed to merge themselves to form IDEA Cellular

Limited (hereinafter referred to as "IDEA"). The Memorandum of

Understanding was entered into on 13.11.2000 by merging TCL with

BACL. 8. A Shareholders Agreement came into existence on 15.12.2000

between AT&T Wireless Inc., AV Birla Group (through Grasim Industries

Limited) and Tata Group through TIL. In this Agreement respective rights 4 and obligations of the parties for the merger/amalgamation of the TCL into

BACL and modalities and functions of merged entities were recorded.

Under that Agreement, the applicants, the non-applicant and AT&T

Wireless Services Inc., were to hold 44,72,35,136 shares being one-third of

the subscribed and paid up Equity Share Capital of the merged entity, i.e.,

IDEA. Article 3.04(b) of the Shareholders Agreement provides as under: Article 8 is the Confidentiality Clause which reads as under: 5 shall mean all oral, written and/or tangible information created
by the merged company or disclosed by a Founder (in either
case "owner") to the receiving Founder ("Recipient") which is
confidential, proprietary and/or not generally available to the
public, including but not limited to information relating in whole
or in part to present and future products, services, business
plans and strategies, marketing ideas and concepts, especially
with respect of unannounced products and services, present
and future product plans, pricing, volume estimates, financial
data, product enhancement information, business plans,
marketing plans, sales strategies, customer information
(including customer's applications and environment), market
testing information, development plans, specifications,
customer requirements, configurations, designs, plans,
drawings, apparatus, sketches, software, hardware data,
prototypes or other technical and business information.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, information shall not be
deemed confidential and Recipient shall have no obligation
with respect to any such information which: including publication, inspection of a product, or
 otherwise, and through no negligence or other wrongful
 act of Recipient, or (c) is received by recipient from a third party without
 similar restriction and without breach of this Agreement,
 or (d) is independently develop by Recipient, or (e) is furnished to a third party by owner without a
 similar restriction on the third party's rights. 8.02 Treatment of Confidential Information

From the execution of this Agreement until three (3) years
after the Recipient ceases to be a shareholder, Recipient
shall, and shall cause its affiliates to, keep confidential and will 6 not disclose, and will cause its affiliates not to disclose, to third
parties, the confidential information receive from, or made
available by owner in the course of the transactions
contemplated hereby and will use and cause its affiliates to
use, the same level of care with respect to the confidential
information as Recipient employees with respect to its own
proprietary and confidential information of like importance, and
will not use and will cause its affiliates not to use such
confidential information for any purpose other than the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement. Promptly
upon the Recipient ceasing to be a shareholder, written
confidential information will be returned to Owner or destroyed
immediately upon the request of owner, and no copies,
extracts or other reproductions shall be retained by the
Recipient. All documents memoranda, notes and other
writings whatsoever prepared by recipient which contain the
confidential information shall be returned to owner or
destroyed at owner's request. Confidential information
provided by owner shall remain the property of owner. For the
avoidance of doubt, the merged company shall not be deemed
to be a Recipient for purposes of this Section. 8.03 Notice prior to disclosure: competition; (iii) the failure to contribute capital as required under Section 2 .04 (a); (iv) a breach of provisions relating to election of Directors, filling of

 Board vacancies, removal of Directors and election of Chairman of

 the Board; (v) a breach of the provisions under Article 10 relating to transfer

 of equity, capital or voting interest; (vi) a breach by a party of the provisions under Section 6 .02. Article 10.06 provides that if any party receives from or otherwise

negotiates with third parties a bonafide offer to purchase any of the equity

capital owned or held by such party and intends to make sale of its shares

to such third party, such founder must notify the other two parties of the

Shareholders Agreement by way of a notice mentioning offer price, the

third parties making the offer and the number of shares that such third

party wants to purchase on which the offeree would have option to

purchase such amount of shares at the offer price within 45 days of the

offer notice. 9. The Arbitration clause worded in Article 12.04 and Article 12.04(a) , (b), (c), (d) and (e) are as under: Promptly upon their selection, such arbitrators shall agree
upon and select a third arbitrator from the panel of arbitrators
UNCITRAL. The parties shall agree in advance as to manner
in which the arbitration panel shall promptly hear witnesses
and arguments, review documents and otherwise conduct the
arbitration proceedings. Should the parties fail to reach an
agreement as to the conduct of the arbitration proceeding
within twenty (20) days from the selection of the third
arbitrator, the arbitration panel shall formulate its own
procedural rules and promptly commence the arbitration
proceedings. The arbitration proceedings shall be conducted
as expeditiously as possible with due consideration for the
complexity of the dispute in question. The arbitration panel
shall issue its decision in writing within thirty (30) days from the
hearing of final arguments by the parties. The parties agree
that the arbitrators will have the power to rule on questions of
its own jurisdiction over any dispute, to award damages and, in
appropriate circumstances, to award equitable relief but shall
not be authorized to award punitive or exemplary damages to
any party. The parties specifically agree to be bound by the
decisions rendered by the arbitration panel provided for herein
and agree not to submit a dispute subject to this Section 12 .04 (d) to any federal, State or local court or arbitration association
except as may be necessary to enforce the procedures of this 10 Section 12 .04(d) or to enforce the decision rendered by the
 arbitrators. The parties to any dispute submitted to arbitration
 hereunder shall share equally the costs of the arbitral panel
 and shall each bear their own attorneys' fees and other
 expenses incurred in connection with any arbitration
 proceedings. If court proceedings to stay litigation or compel
 arbitration are necessary, the party who unsuccessfully
 opposes such proceedings shall pay all associated costs,
 expenses and attorneys' fees which are reasonably incurred
 by the other party. (e) During the pendency of a dispute/arbitration
 proceedings the parties shall be bound by the terms of this
 Agreement." The parties point out that in 2004 AT&T Wireless Services Inc., which was

the holding company of AT&T Cellular Private Limited (Mauritius), merged

with New Cingular Wireless Services Inc. (hereinafter referred to as

"NCW") pursuant to a global restructure cum merger. Subsequently in

September, 2005 TIL acquired the entire shareholding of AT&T Cellular

Pvt. Ltd. from NCW and the Birla Group acting through Aditya Birla Nuvo

Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "ABNL") acquired 16.45% shares in IDEA

from AT&T Cellular Private Limited. AT&T Cellular Private Limited was

subsequently renamed as Apex Investments (Mauritius) Limited. As a

result of this, the shareholding of Birla Group in IDEA increased to 50.14%

while TIL continued to have 31.69% of the issued share capital. The

balance 1.70% of IDEA was held by AIG (Mauritius) LLC. 11 10. On 31.1.2006, the Applicant No.1 served a notice on the non-

applicant under Article 9.02 of the Shareholders Agreement in which it was

stated that pursuant to an e-mail communication received by it from one

Mr.Sanjeev Aga, it was clear that Aditya Birla Telecom Limited (hereinafter

referred to "ABTL"), a subsidiary of ABNL had applied to the Department of

Telecommunication for grant of UAS license for the Mumbai Metro Circle.

It was further stated in that notice that vide Board Circular dated 29.7.2005,

the Board of Directors of IDEA had accepted proposal to apply for UAS

licence for the Mumbai Metro Circle and consequently the said application

was filed on 3.8.2005. The Applicant No.1 thus asserted that the filing of

the application for UAS licence by ABTL for the Mumbai circle was in clear

violation of Article 3.04(b) of the Shareholders Agreement and amounting

to a material breach by Aditya Birla Group under Article 9.02 of the

Shareholders Agreement and accordingly it was requested to cure the said

material breach within 60 days of the receipt of the said letter by

withdrawing the said application made by ABTL for grant of UAS licence for

Mumbai Circle. 11. On 27.2.2006, Applicant No.1 sent the Termination Notice under Article 9.02 (b) of the Shareholders Agreement that ABNL, which was an

affiliate company of Aditya Birla Group, for the purposes of Shareholders

Agreement had displayed confidential financial data of IDEA including

particulars of revenue, PBDIT, OPM%, PBIT, Net profit/loss, capital 12 employed, ROCE (annualized)% and projections, on its website. It was

asserted that this information displayed on the website was confidential

information within the meaning assigned to the said term in Article 8.01 of

Shareholders Agreement. Since such confidential information was not in

the public domain and since none of the exceptions to the protection of

confidential information contained in Section 8 .01 of the Shareholders

Agreement were available to ABNL, the disclosure of confidential

information was a clear breach of Article 8.02 of the Shareholders

Agreement. It was also asserted that such material breach was not

capable of being cured and, therefore, the said letter was to be treated as

the Termination Notice in accordance with Article 9 of the Shareholders

Agreement and the Applicant No.1 was proceeding to purchase the

shareholding of AV Birla Group within 90 days of the receipt of the said

notice. A copy of the notice was also endorsed to IDEA in order to take

steps to facilitate access to an international firm of auditors appointed by

Applicant No.1 for computing the fair market value of the IDEA shares. 12. These letters dated 20.2.2006 and 1.3.2006 were disputed by letters

dated 31.1.2006 and 27.2.2006 respectively wherein a clear cut denial was

asserted to the effect that there was no violation of the provisions of the

Shareholders Agreement relating to non-competition and confidentiality.

Then vide the subsequent correspondences dated 16.3.2006 and

27.3.2006, Applicant No.1 reaffirmed all its stand and its entitlement to

purchase the entire equity share capital of the non-applicant in IDEA in 13 accordance with the provisions of Shareholders Agreement. There was a

further denial on the part of the non-applicant by its letters dated 17.3.2006

and 3.4.2006. 13. However, in the meantime, the applicant received an offer for

purchasing its stake as well as the stake of M/s. Apex Investments

(Mauritius) Holding Private Limited in IDEA from Global Communication

Services Holding Limited. In such an eventuality, in terms of Clause 10.06,

the applicants were bound to offer the shares at the same price to the non-

applicant. Accordingly, a notice dated 5.4.2006 came to be served by

Applicant No. 1 on its behalf and on behalf of its subsidiary M/s. Apex

Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited, offering the said shares to

the non-applicant. In this notice, the material terms and conditions of the

offer were specified vide para 3. It was stated: 14. On 10.4.2006, the letter dated 7.4.2006 was replied to. There again,

it was reiterated: On 19.4.2006, by the even dated letter, the applicant reiterated that

the non-applicant had breached the Confidentiality Clause and that the

claim of the non-applicant that the data displayed on the website was not

confidential under the Shareholders Agreement, is misplaced. It was

asserted in para 6 of the letter that non-applicant No. 1 was making

contradictory statements. It was lastly asserted: Again on 19.4.2006 by the letter of even date, the applicants reaffirmed the

contents of Notices of Termination dated 31.1.2006 and 27.2.2006. 15. On 24.4.2006 the Non-applicant replied to the letter dated 19.4.2006

and intimated the applicants their readiness to make full and final payment

against the delivery of shares by TIL and the Apex. On 24.4.2006 the

applicants issued a notice requesting to commence the process of

consultation with respect to the dispute which had arisen between the

parties and which was more particularly highlighted in their earlier notices.

In that notice it was said: A further reference was given to Clause 12.04 (b) of the Shareholders

Agreement which provided for consultation and, therefore, by the same

notice the process of consultation was called upon by the applicants.

Lastly it was straightaway suggested that: On 27.4.2006 the non-applicant responded to the applicants consultation

notice and asserted that there was no arbitral dispute surviving between

the parties and, therefore, there was no longer a basis for arbitration

regarding the issues set forth in the termination notices. The non-applicant

also requested the applicants to withdraw the consultation notice. It was,

therefore, pointed out through the notice dated 5.5.2006 by the applicants

that the termination of the agreement on their part was made without

prejudice to the pendency of the dispute and/or arbitration proceedings and

the position was clarified from time to time. On 5.5.2006 the applicants

formally served a letter by way of formal notice for arbitration. This notice

was contested by the non-applicant by its letter dated 17.5.2006 again

reiterating its position that there was no arbitrable dispute surviving

between the parties. Hence on 19.5.2006, the applicants communicated to 17 the non-applicant that they had appointed their nominee Arbitrator under

Clause 12.04 (d) of the Shareholders Agreement. 16. So far so good. Thereafter two share purchase agreements were

entered into between the applicants and the non-applicant. There was a

specific reference made to the claim of arbitration made on behalf of the

TIL in Clause (d) which runs as under: In Clause 2.3 it was further specified in this Agreement that: In pursuance of this an application was filed before the Bombay High Court

and as has been stated earlier, the said application came to be withdrawn

and a fresh application came to be made before this Court for the

appointment of Arbitrator. 17. Mr.Harish N. Salve, Mr.R.F. Nariman and Mr.Mukul Rohtagi, Senior

Counsel on behalf of the applicants painstakingly took the court through the

Shareholders Agreement as well as the Share Purchase Agreement. The

Court was taken through the whole history along with necessary

documents and it was reiterated that the appointment of Arbitral Tribunal

was a must for resolving the live issues between the parties. Learned

counsel firstly urged that there was no dispute about there being

Shareholders Agreement to which contesting entities were the parties and

further that the applicants held shares in IDEA subject to discipline of

Shareholders Agreement. Learned counsel thereafter relied upon the

Notice dated 31.1.2006 whereby a material breach was alleged on the part

of the non-applicant, i.e., to secure the licences which would necessarily

involve business in competition with IDEA. The attention of the Court was

also drawn to the second notice dated 27.2.2006 by which the

confidentiality clause was alleged to have been breached, which breach 19 was an incurable breach. Thus the applicants asserted that under the

terms of the Shareholders Agreement, the applicants were entitled to

purchase the shares of the non-applicant in the event of the breach at a

price that was heavily discounted price, i.e., at 25% less than the market

price as per clause 9.02(b)&(c) of the Shareholders Agreement. It was,

therefore, urged that the dispute had arisen which has been shown in the

Termination Notices dated 31.1.2006 and 27.2.2006, which has been

disputed by the non-applicant's reply dated 28.2.2006 and 1.3.2006. It

was, therefore, urged that such dispute clearly fell within the Arbitration

Clause. 18. It was further urged that there was a live issue between the parties

and that there was a difference between a live issue and a live claim. It

was urged that whether the claim had any merit or not was a matter which

could be considered at the stage of appointing an Arbitrator and an issue

which has never been closed or treated to have been closed remains a live

issue. Heavy reliance was placed on the judgment of this Court reported in Shree Ram Mills Ltd. v. Utility Premises (P) Ltd. [(2007) 4 SCC 599 at

p.607]. It was, therefore, urged that as per the principles laid down, the

initial notices of termination were disputed by the non-applicant; that on 27th

March, 2006 an international firm of auditors was appointed by the

applicants to determine the fair value of shares; that on 5th April, 2006, the

applicant had received an offer for selling these shares to a third party and 20 on that very date the applicant had raised the dispute although the

arbitration proceedings had by then not yet commenced. It was pointed out

by the learned counsel that the non-applicant in its reply dated 28.2.2006

had very clearly understood this position and has reiterated therein as

under: Learned counsel pointed out that in the first notice there was no termination

of contract but it was a notice to correct the material breach while the

second notice purported to terminate the Agreement. Learned counsel

also pointed out that in the reply dated 28.2.2006 there was a tacit

agreement that the Shareholders Agreement remained in existence

inasmuch as it was stated in its notice that: 19. It was further argued that though the non-applicant had contested

the notices of termination suggesting that there was no arbitrable issue, still

an agreement was entered into on 1st June, 2006 wherein there was clear

reference to the clauses keeping the disputes arising out of the live issues

alive. Learned counsel relied upon the following observations made in

Heyman & Anr. v. Darwins Ltd. [(1942) 1 All E.R. 337]: Similarly other observations by House of Lords reported in the above case

were also heavily relied upon to the effect: Shortly stated the claim of the applicants is for the profits they had become

entitled to by the breach of confidentiality clause on the part of the non-

applicant which profit was on account of applicant's entitlement to purchase

the shares of non-applicant at the rate 25% less than the market price. Its

reiteration is that though subsequently it agreed to sell all its shares to the

non-applicant on account of the offer having been made to it by Global

Communication Services and though subsequently the Share Purchase

Agreement dated 1.6.2006 was executed between the applicants and the

non-applicant, since the said agreement was subject to the disputes raised 24 earlier and without prejudice to its rights it could still lay its hand on its

claim. 20. As against this Shri K.K. Venugopal, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi and

Shri Shyam Diwan, learned senior counsel for the Non-applicant opposed

the appointment of Arbitral Tribunal on various grounds and basically on

the ground that there was no live issue remaining pending between the

parties. The major contention is that by Share Purchase Agreement, the

applicants had made an exit from the company and, therefore, they were

left with no rights under the Shareholders Agreement. A very heavy

reliance was placed by Shri Venugopal on Clauses 7.01 (a) and (b) which

are as under: Heavily relying on this clause, the learned Senior Counsel argued that once

by a Share Purchase Agreement, the applicants agreed to sell their shares

to the non-applicant and due to such act once the shareholding of the

applicants fell below 15%, it had no right to assert more particularly under

the Shareholders Agreement. Learned counsel argues that there were two

options to the applicants when they received an offer from Global

Communications Services, a third party, for the sale of their shares if the

applicant had accepted the offer. First option was to sell the entire

shareholding to Global Communications and exit IDEA in which case the

non-applicant could also choose to sell its entire shareholding in IDEA to

Global Communications by giving a Special Disposal Notice and once the

Tata Group allowed the Birla Group to sell all its shares to Global

Communications, it could no longer require the Birla Group to then sell the

same shares to the Tata Group for the reason that Birla Group would no

longer have those shares. The second option, according to the learned

counsel was to sell the entire shareholding in IDEA to the non-applicant

and exit IDEA. According to the learned counsel in both these cases on

acceptance of the offer by the applicants from Global Communications,

there would be an inevitable result of voluntary effacement of all rights that

the applicants claim on the Birla Group shareholding in IDEA. It was

pointed out that the applicants had accepted this offer from the Global

Communications much before it attempted to reserve any rights against the

non-applicant and, therefore, had irrevocably elected to exit IDEA, electing 26 for second option. It was, therefore, urged that there was a concluded

contract between Global Communications and the applicants even before a

letter dated 5.4.2006 was sent by the applicants to Birla Group to purchase

their shareholding in IDEA and hence the applicants had elected to exit

IDEA themselves. In support of this proposition, the learned counsel relied

on three cases: 21. In short, it was contended that by accepting the offer of Global

Communications the claim made by the applicants under Termination

Notices for purchase of Birla Group shareholding in IDEA at a defaulting

price got necessarily effaced with the subsequent option given in the offer

notice to Birla Group to sell their entire shareholding to Global

Communications. It was further urged that with the offer of sale to Global

Communications, the applicants recognized and acquiesced that the Birla

Group's shareholding in IDEA was not subject to any encumbrance or 27 reservations and the applicants, therefore, necessarily abandoned all

purported claims for the purchase of Birla Group's shareholding and there

was nothing left with the applicants to reserve in the offer notice or any

documents executed thereafter. It is pointed out that the Agreement to Sell

to Global Communications took place without any notice to the Birla Group

and contrary to the alleged right of applicants to buy out Birla Group and

remain invested in IDEA with increased shareholding, the applicants

themselves exited IDEA by selling their shares to Birla Group companies

and thereby reducing the Tata Group's shareholding in IDEA to Nil. It is

accordingly suggested that as a result all rights of Tata Group pursuant to

Termination Notices were effaced and there was no arbitrable dispute

surviving between the parties. It is pointed out that there was no claim for

damages in the Termination Notice and in fact such a claim was not even

possible because it was excluded by the decision to seek a buy out under Section 9 .02 of the Shareholders Agreement. It was then stated that the

claim by the applicants was frivolous and unsustainable because of the

alleged loss of an opportunity to buy out Birla Group's shareholding in

IDEA was not caused by any breach of contract by any Birla Group

company but it was by applicants' own voluntary decision to exit the

company and thereby lost the right to acquire Birla Group's shareholding in

IDEA. It is pointed that the purported rights of the applicants under the

Termination Notice is not possible in law also particularly because the Tata

Group's election to exit IDEA and to let Birla Group remain invested in 28 IDEA and as such all their claims were erased. Learned counsel also

relied on Clause 7.01(b)(i) of the Shareholders Agreement which is as

under: It was suggested that even if the Arbitration clause remains inspite of the

termination of the Shareholders Agreement, because of the above

mentioned clause, there is complete bar created on the exercise by the

applicants of the substantive right to seek a buy out. A live procedural

mechanism of dispute resolutions through arbitration cannot be set in

motion to enforce a dead claim and, therefore, there would be no question

of starting an arbitration proceeding. 22. As to what should be the approach of the Court in an application

under Section 11(6) was explained by this Court in SBP Co. Vs. Patel

Engineering Ltd. and Another reported in 2005 8 SCC 618. This was a

decision to resolve as to whether the Chief Justice of India or his nominee,

while dealing with the matters under Section 11(6) acts in his administrative

capacity or his judicial capacity. The Court ultimately, held that the Chief

Justice of India acts in his judicial capacity. Hon. P.K. Balasubramanyan,

J., who authored the judgment on behalf of the majority, in his conclusions,

pointed out clearly in point iv (points i, ii and iii not relevant) that:- 29 The law, thus, stands crystalised by this judgment indicating the

exact scope of the Judge in dealing with an application under Section 11(6) of the Act. The judgment was thereafter considered in number of cases. In Shree Ram Mills Ltd. Vs. Utility Premises (P) Ltd. reported in 2007 4

SCC 599, it was observed relying on observations made in paragraph 39 of

SBP Co. Vs. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Another reported in 2005 8

SCC 618 (cited supra): In the wake of above decision, it will be now necessary to see

whether a live claim or a live issue exists in between the parties. 23. As has already been clarified in the earlier part of the judgment that

there is jurisdiction in this Court to decide the application, secondly, there is

arbitration agreement between the parties, and thirdly, the claim is not

barred by limitation, the only issue which has to be decided is whether

there is a live issue in the sense as to whether the parties have already

concluded or recorded their satisfaction regarding the issues or whether

the parties are still in contest regarding certain issues. 24. In the backdrop of what has been asserted by the applicant and the

stands taken by the non-applicant, it would be first better to note certain

dates, which are of extreme importance. It will be seen there as below: 31 applicant Company having applied for Unified

 Access Service Licenses (UAS Licenses),

 enabling license holder to provide any kind of

 telecommunication service for Mumbai Metro

 circle and thereby committing breach of Article

 3.04 (b) of the Shareholders Agreement and

 asking the non-applicant to remedy the breach

 within 60 days. 27.2.2006: A second termination notice was sent by the

 applicant to the non-applicant claiming that there

 was a breach of confidentiality clause committed

 by the non-applicant and since this breach was 32 incapable of being cured, the applicant demanded

 to purchase the shareholding of the Birla Group

 within 90 days of the said notice at a default price. 28.2.2006: The non-applicant disputed the first termination

 notice dated 31.1.2006, while on 1.3.2006, the

 non-applicant replied to the second termination

 notice dated 27.2.2006. 16.3.2006: The applicants reiterated both the termination

 notices. 17.3.2006: The non-applicant wrote a letter observing

 therein: Another Clause 2.3 was inserted: 25. A glance on these dates would clearly suggest that the first salvo

was fired by the applicant when it first sent the notice dated 31.1.2006. In

this way, the only complaint made was that ABTL, which was a subsidiary

of ABNL, had made an application on 3.1.2006 to the Department of

Telecommunication for grant of Unified Access Services License (UASL)

for Mumbai Metro circle. It was complained that this amounted to the

breach of clause 3.04(b) of the Shareholders Agreement as the Aditya Birla

Group could not be permitted to engage in, directly or indirectly through an

Affiliate, (i) any activity that would constitute the Business of the IDEA 37 Cellular Ltd. without complying with the provisions of Clause 3.04(b).

Noticee then was to remedy the breach within 60 days as per the

Shareholders Agreement. It is only to that extent that the dispute arose. It would be remembered that there is a provision in the Shareholders

Agreement, by which even if the breach is committed by one party, the

other party could ask for remedying the same within 60 days. This was not

a termination of the Agreement. However, the second salvo came to be

fired on 27.2.2006, which was on account of the breach of the

Confidentiality clause. A position was taken that this breach was not such

as could be remedied and on that account, the applicants claimed all the

shareholding of Birla Group at the price, which would be 25% less than the

fair market price of the shares. In the subsequent correspondences, they

also offered to appoint a firm of Chartered Accountants for assessing the

fair market value of the shares. 26. The non-applicant was not to be left behind in disputing this claim by

its reply dated 1.3.2006. In this reply, it was suggested that the termination

notice was only by way of a counter action to the Birla Group's recent

letters to the Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of

Communication and Information & Technology (DoT), complaining against

Tata Group's continuing breach of the relevant telecom licenses. It was

thereafter denied that the investor presentations made by ABNL, and the

further presentation dated 12.9.2005 posted on the website of ABNL could 38 constitute a breach on the part of Birla Group of the restrictions contained

in Section 8 .01 of the Shareholders Agreement. It was further reiterated

that the said presentation could not be deemed to be confidential under the

Shareholders Agreement, and that information conveyed in those

presentations was not confidential information at all. A further stand was

taken that since ABNL was a publicly listed company, any consolidated

accounts prepared by ABNL had to be disclosed to the investors, which

was consistent with its disclosure obligations and a good corporate

governance practice, and that the Tata Group was fully aware that ABNL

would be disclosing such information to the investors and the analysts. It

was further reiterated that since the information was received from IDEA

regarding consolidation and disclosure, such information was used for that

purpose and there was no impropriety or breach of Shareholders

Agreement by these disclosures, and that information was not at all

confidential. An allegation was made that the Tata Group was trying to sell

its shares to the third party and that it could not do so unless the

obligations in favour of Birla Group, as contemplated in the Shareholders

Agreement, were not met. 27. In short, till this reply was given, the only defense that was raised by

the non-applicant was that there was no breach of the Confidentiality

clause, as the information itself was not confidential. There was probably

an inkling to the non-applicant that the Tata Group was interested in 39 disposing of its shareholding in favour of some third party and, therefore, it

merely asserted it rights in case such sale to the third party of the

shareholding materializes. Therefore, at least up to this date, there was a

live issue as to whether there had been a breach of Confidentiality clause

on the part of the non-applicant. 28. However, that is not where the things stopped as merely a few

weeks thereafter, the applicants having received the offer from Global

Communication Services, offered their own shareholding to the non-

applicant on 5.4.2006, reiterating therein, that this offer was without

prejudice to the dispute which has arisen between the parties. The offer so

made, was accepted by the non-applicant, however, with a caveat in the

following words: Therefore, even at this point of time, when the offer was accepted,

the issue was very much there as to whether there was a breach of

Confidentiality clause on the part of the non-applicant. On 7.4.2006, the

applicants offered to send two Draft Share Purchase Agreements for the

sale and again reiterated that the offer and the acceptance by the non-

applicant was without prejudice to the notices of termination dated

31.1.2006 and 27.2.2006. On 10.4.2006, again the non-applicant wrote 40 back giving the details regarding the shares and the percentages, where

again they disputed the question of termination. There was a further

reiteration on 19.4.2006, of its stand, in details, and it was specifically

reiterated in the letter dated 19.4.2006: By their letter dated 24.4.2006, the applicants again showed their

readiness to purchase the shares. However, the earlier position was

reiterated by them to the effect that the stand taken by Tata Group was not

correct. On 24.4.2006, the applicants clearly reiterated that a dispute had

arisen between the applicants and the non-applicant in connection with the

terms of Shareholders Agreement and that for that purpose, they were

ready to start the process of consolidation as an initial step. It was also

conveyed that in case the non-applicant was not interested in process of

consolidation, the applicants would like to proceed with the arbitral

proceedings straight away. Lastly, the non-applicant wrote a letter dated

27.4.2006 in which for the first time, the position was taken that the

Agreement which was concluded between the parties consequent to the

offer notice and acceptance notice, and the further steps taken by both 41 would be that there was no arbitrable dispute surviving pursuant to the

notices. 29. It is here for the first time, that a stand was shifted by the non-

applicant from its earlier stand. Earlier, the contention was that there was

no breach of Confidentiality clause. The shifted stand was that because of

the subsequent Agreement, the earlier issue was already obliterated. It is

on this background that ultimately the formal Agreements dated 1.6.2006

came to be entered into by the parties. But before that, a notice for the

Arbitration was already issued by the applicants by their letter dated

5.5.2006. Even on this backdrop, the only position taken by the non-

applicant by its letter dated 17.5.2006 was that Tata Group was estopped

from asserting its alleged claims against the Birla Group. In view of the

election made by Tata Group by giving the offer notice dated 5.4.2006 to

the Birla Group and the acceptance by Birla Group dated 6.4.2006. Therefore, it was concluded that there was no arbitrable dispute surviving

and yet in the Agreement dated 1.6.2006, the non-applicant again allowed

to insert the clauses regarding the Agreements being without prejudice to

the earlier rights. In fact, if the stand taken was that there was no arbitrable

issue because the offer concluded sale, there was no question of any such

"without prejudice" clause being inserted in the Agreement dated 1.6.2006.

It must be remembered that on the date when the formal Agreements were

signed on 1.6.2006, the non-applicant was already facing an arbitral notice 42 and yet the two clauses, viz., 2(D) and 2.3 (which we have mentioned

earlier in this judgment), came to be inserted. All this would suggest that

there indeed was an issue and a live one in between the parties till then as

described in (See Chairman and MD, NTPC Ltd. Vs. Reshmi

Constructions, Builders & Contractors reported in 2004 2 SCC 663

(Paras 35 and 36). 30. On the other hand, Shri Venugopal, learned counsel invited my

attention to a decision of High Court of Australia in Sargent and ASL

Developments Limited, reported at (1974) 4 Australian Law Reports

(A.L.R.) 257 (cited supra). The decision of the Australian High Court is on

the question of Doctrine of election. In my opinion, the decision is not

applicable to the present controversy as there was no question of election

on the part of the applicant herein. It is merely basing its claim on account

of the alleged clear breach of Shareholders Agreement in respect of the

Confidentiality clause. Even the second decision in Jai Narain

Parasrampuria (Dead) and others Vs. Pushpa Devi Saraf and others ,

reported in 2006 7 SCC 756(cited supra) has no application. That is a

case where this Court explained the principles of estoppel and waiver and

whether a party could be permitted to take a different stand and the duty of

the court in such matters. No such questions arise in the present matter. The third decision in National Insurance Company Limited Vs. Mastan

and another , reported in 2006 2 SCC 641, is again on the question of 43 Doctrine of election, where this Court has observed that the Doctrine of

election postulates that when two remedies are available for the same

relief, the aggrieved party has an option to elect either of them, but not

both. The fact situation is not like that in the present case. This case,

therefore, has no application. 31. The other major limb of the argument was, however, that this issue

could not arise and became a dead issue at least after the applicants sold

out all their shares and their shareholding fell below 15%. The

aforementioned clause on which Shri Venugopal, Dr. Singhvi and Shri

Shyam Diwan, Advocates for the non-applicant heavily relied, being clause

No. 7.01(a) and 7.01(b), as also 7.02 (b) provided that in case the

shareholding falls below 15%, and in this case it has actually fallen below

15%, such party would not have any rights left with it under the Agreement

(Shareholders Agreement). The argument is obviously incorrect, as the

Arbitration Agreement under clause 12.04 would be clearly autonomous of

the Shareholders Agreement. Law is settled on this point that even if the

whole Agreement is terminated, the Arbitration Agreement would still

remain (See Chairman and MD, NTPC Ltd. Vs. Reshmi Constructions,

Builders & Contractors reported in 2004 2 SCC 663 (Para 39). It was

argued that clause 7.01 (b) operates as a complete bar on the exercise by

the applicants of the substantive right to seek a buy-out. That may be so,

however, that is only an eventuality subsequent to the crystalisation of the 44 live issue between the parties for which the arbitration clause would come

handy to the applicants. 32. The learned counsels for the non-applicant very vehemently argued

that the issue had become dead. The issue cannot be held to be dead for

the simple reason that even in the subsequent Agreements (Shares

Purchase Agreements), there is a "without prejudice" clause and that too

despite the vehement claims and refusals of those claims on the part of the

parties. 33. Whether there was a breach of Confidentiality clause and whether

the applicants were entitled to any damages on account of that clause in

favour of the applicants, would be a matter in the helm of arbitration and

this Court would not go into that question. 34. It was tried to be argued that the cause of action for the arbitration

was based entirely on the offer notice, which was given by the applicants to

the non-applicant on account of the applicants having received the offer

from Global Communication Services. It is, therefore, argued by the

learned counsel that since the cause of action was on the offer notice and

since the Share Purchase Agreements were concluded on account of that

offer notice, any disputes arising would be solved in accordance with the

Share Purchase Agreement and not with the Shareholders Agreement and,

therefore, they would be resolved under English Law and LCIA Arbitration 45 Rules. These clauses are to be found at pages 286-288 as also on pages

328-332 of the main Paper Book vide clauses 9.1, 9.4 and 9.5 in the First

Agreement dated 31.1.2006, as also 9.2.1 to 9.2.5 on pages 330 and 331

of the main Paper Book. 35. The contention is clearly incorrect, as the present dispute is not

based on the notice of offer dated 5.4.2006. The contention raised by the

learned counsels that the cause of action arose only from that notice, is

obviously incorrect, as has been shown in the earlier parts of the judgment.

The live issue was clearly there, much before the notice was given on 05-

04-2006 and the second agreement was even contemplated. That was the

issue whether there was a breach of Confidentiality clause on the part of

the non-applicant and what are the effects thereof. That issue continued to

be in existence and was never given up by the applicants. Therefore, that

contention is rejected. 36. By way of last argument, it was argued that M/s. Apex Investments

(Mauritius) Holding Private Limited was never a party to the Shareholders

Agreement. It was suggested that M/s. Apex Investments (Mauritius)

Holding Private Limited was originally a member of the AT&T Wireless

Group and held 32.9% shares in IDEA. It was then known as AT&T

Cellular Pvt. Ltd. It was then argued that it was required under Article 4.01 (a) of the Shareholders Agreement to execute a Deed of Adherence as

provided in "Annex C" to the Shareholders Agreement in order to (i) 46 designate AT&T Inc. as its representative to exercise all rights and perform

all obligations under the Shareholders Agreement; (ii) agree to be bound

by all the provisions of the Shareholders Agreement; (iii) agree not to

revoke the designation of the representative without prior written consent of

the AV Birla Group and the Tata Group. It was also required that the

counter-part of the executed Deed of Adherence should have been

delivered to Grasim Industries Ltd. and TIL. It was then pointed out that

after TIL acquired AT&T Cellular Pvt. Ltd. itself which held the remaining

16.45% shares in IDEA, M/s. Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private

Limited became a wholly owned subsidiary of TIL. It was then pointed out

that on 28.09.2005, AT&T Cellular Pvt. Ltd., New Cingular Wireless

Service Inc. (successor-in-interest to AT&T Inc.) entered into a Sale and

Purchase Agreement with Indian Rayon and Industries Ltd. (now called

ABNL), whereby the Shareholders Agreement was specifically terminated

as between the Birla Group and the AT&T Wireless Group and all pre-

existing rights/liabilities, if any, were specifically extinguished and waived.

So also on the same date, the AT&T Wireless Group (of which AT&T

Cellular Pvt. Ltd. was a part), executed a similar Sale and Purchase

Agreement with the Tata Group, whereby the Shareholders Agreement

was terminated between the Tata Group and the AT&T Wireless Group,

and thus the Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited (which

is a fall out from the AT&T Cellular Pvt. Ltd.) had terminated the

Shareholders Agreement and extinguished and waived all accrued rights 47 and obligations against the Birla Group and, therefore, Apex Investments

(Mauritius) Holding Private Limited ceases to be a party to the

Shareholders Agreement and to any arbitration clause contained therein.

Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited, therefore, could no

longer have any claim for arbitration or assert any rights or liabilities under

the Shareholders Agreement. It was further pointed out that on

15.12.2000, when the Shareholders Agreement was executed, there were

only three parties, viz., (i) AT&T Inc., which was acting on behalf of itself

and AT&T Wireless Group; (ii) Grasim, acting on behalf of itself and the

Birla Group (iii) TIL, acting on behalf of itself and the Tata Group. The

argument, therefore, is that since Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding

Private Limited was not a party then, there could be no privity of contract

between Apex Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited and the

non-applicant Birla Group. It was pointed out that since the modality

drafted by clause 4.02 of Shareholders Agreement was not followed, Apex

Investments (Mauritius) Holding Private Limited could not join the

Shareholders Agreement and as such, Apex Investments (Mauritius)

Holding Private Limited not being a party to the Shareholders Agreement, it

cannot demand an arbitration through the arbitration clause. This

argument is obviously incorrect for the following reasons: 37. Ultimately, considering the overall situation, it is held that the

application under Section 11(6) is liable to be allowed. In that view, the

following order is passed: