SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [Serious] How to expose a godman who's running a cult?
DATE: 2022-04-21
SCORE: 66
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/u8qf1b/serious_how_to_expose_a_godman_whos_running_a_cult/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is my personal story, my family was in this cult for 15 years &amp; some of them are still in it.

So 15 years back my dad was having some alcohol issues. My dad's brother-in-law suggested we visit his 'guruji'. They were his followers for quite some time &amp; they're from Juhu so were quite well off. The guruji is a homoeopathic doctor (first red flag) &amp; practices in many clinics in Mumbai &amp; Thane.

His deal is that he claims that he's got enlightenment &amp; can speak to Datta Bhagwan. People come to him for various issues besides health. Marriage problems, property not selling, can't find a partner to marry, family problems, depression, and business problems all are tackled by him. For all these problems he claims to talk to Datta Bhagwan &amp; tells the people to visit some temple &amp; that will solve their problems.

Now keep in mind these temples aren't the typical temple around Mumbai, they're mostly located in South India. Sri Kalahasti, Subramanya, Somnath, Rahu, and Ketu are some of the temples given by him. His main temple is in Gangapur, Karnataka. It's Datta Bhagwan's main place of worship.

Coming back to my dad, he was told to visit Gangapur with guruji many times. After going there it helped him out with his alcohol issues so he put his full faith in him &amp; has been taking my family there also &amp; telling everyone who'll listen about the greatness of guruji &amp; the spiritual progress which will happen if you go to Gangapur.

So with most of the problems that people come for to guruji are ones that get solved eventually with time. What guruji does is he tells the person that they're having this issue because of XYZ planet &amp; their stars aren't correct so they should visit the respective temple to solve their problems.

He usually tells to make 2-4 trips to these temples depending upon the problem. Now it's very difficult for people who are working or having a business to leave everything &amp; go to these temples. The people who go to him are mostly middle class. So it takes them around 2-3 months to complete all these trips. Problems often resolve within that time &amp; if they don't, guruji just claims that the stars are very bad &amp; you'll have to make more trips.

Anything good that's happening in your life is because you went to these temples &amp; the God's are happy with you. Anything bad happens means you're not doing it with enough faith or he claims that it's this bad because you went to these temples, if you didn't go then it would've been worse.

He goes to Gangapur almost every weekend with a rented Innova or Tavera. He goes with his wife &amp; sometimes son so he needs to fill his seats in the car so that the contribution per person is less. He'll ask his followers to come with him to Gangapur &amp; they take it as an honour whereas he's just doing it to reduce his cost. Every weekend around 2 cars go to Gangapur.

He also does trips to temples all across India &amp; does them by car starting from Mumbai. He smokes cigarettes so he always keeps the car non AC. I've travelled so much in those shitty cars for more than 24 hours at a stretch. It was hell. He fits 7 people in a Tavera / Qualis excluding the driver. We made a mattress &amp; plywood the size of the rear seat of the car &amp; we travel often 3 people in the back of the shitty car.

Earlier they were staying in a guest house in Gangapur, later he told his devotees to ask for donations from people for building a math (ashram/guest house with small temples) there. My dad asked everyone he knew for these donations &amp; himself donated a lot &amp; also worked to construct it as he's a civil contractor.

That sleazy asshole knew my mom's side was rich so he forced my mom to ask her parents to donate.

Now they've built the math there so everyone goes there only. They leave Mumbai on Friday night, reach Gangapur by Saturday morning, rest for the day &amp; usually have havans at night till the morning. The havans were quite normal not some crazy ritual. He frequently tells people to come with their problems to Gangapur as he can't answer them in Mumbai for some reason.

He isolates you from your friend circle &amp; relatives by saying that if you go &amp; eat from their home, you'll get their bad karma. Don't go to weddings as if they break up in the future, you'll get cursed as you were also a part of it. The only place where you can come to socialize is his dispensary or Gangapur or whatever temple he's going to.

He has such control over his devotees that they even ask him which car to buy, what mobile to buy, where to go for holidays &amp; the limit of whom they should marry. He just suggests another devotee who's single for their marriage &amp; they do it in Gangapur. His son (he was like my brother till I discovered his father is a con artist) also part of the scam always told me to not tell my friends that I'm going to Gangapur this frequently as he must be aware that someone will take my blinds off.

But I like my father preached guruji to my close friends. Some of them tried to tell me in a very diplomatic manner that I was being scammed but I didn't take it well. I told them to not dare utter a word about guruji that much was my faith.

Eventually, when I was in my smoking up phase in my college hostel, I told those friends also about guruji &amp; his powers. They also tried to tell me I was being robbed showing me examples of Nityananda. I was offended by it &amp; told them 'mera vaala alag hai'. Then one day after I was stoned, I got this sudden realisation that was happening to me &amp; how I was being controlled. Everything made sense &amp; I had a flashback of all the times my friends tried to warn me about him. I broke his rudraksh which was given to me &amp; then decided I'll stop being part of this bullshit.

Unfortunately, this realisation came at a very difficult time in my life. Due to my addiction, I wasn't able to function correctly or even speak coherent sentences, was overthinking as fuck &amp; going in BT. My friends helped me &amp; stood by me all the time but a time came when my condition was so bad that they had to call my parents.

They told my parents about my addiction &amp; they were shocked to visit my hostel to take me home. At this point, I told them what was happening with us. I showed them a video on Ted-Ed about a cult &amp; paused it to correlate that with what our situation was.

Another important point, I had started smoking cigarettes &amp; weed because of guruji's son who was my bestie. So I ratted everyone to my parents &amp; told them that when I was going to guruji's place, we were sitting in his son's room &amp; took bong rips. My condition was due to his son. Now I know I should take responsibility for my own actions but at that time I wanted to get my family out of that cult so went with it.

My mom was very thankful to have me back &amp; she vowed to never go to Gangapur again as it had caused me so much harm. My father &amp; my brother, unfortunately, didn't get convinced &amp; still go to guruji for all the things. My brother even asked guruji what he should do for his birthday! He told him to visit some temple in the south &amp; he did that instead of partying &amp; enjoying his birthday.

I can't understand how such educated people can fall into this trap. Sometimes he literally tells people to kneel &amp; put their head on the floor as we do in temples at a random tile because some god is there &amp; people actually do it!

I want some news agency to expose him for scamming people so that my family &amp; various others can be liberated from his hold. He doesn't have a very big following though. He must be having around 100-200 followers who regularly come to him for advice.

What do you guys suggest to expose him? How should I tackle the situation? If I can't take him down, I want to get my family out of it so suggestions are welcome!