R.P. No.14/2019 ( Kunal Singh Rathor Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others )

Indore, dated: 25.04.2019
 Parties through their counsel. Regard being had to the similitude in the controversy
involved in the present cases, the writ petitions were
analogously heard and by a common order, they are being
disposed of by this Court. Facts of the Review Petition
No.12/2019 are narrated hereunder. The petitioners before this Court are aggrieved with a
common judgment delivered in the connected writ petitions
i.e. W.P. No.8565/11 and W.P. No.8566/11. The facts of the case reveal that the petitioners'
candidature was cancelled by the M.P. Professional
Examination Board as they got job on account of VYAPAM
scam. The petitioners were certainly beneficiaries of
manipulation done in the answer-sheet and in those
circumstances, the writ petitions preferred by them have
been dismissed by a common order. Learned counsel for the petitioners has argued before
this Court that no show-cause notice was issued and no
independent inquiry was done in the matter.
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH: BENCH AT INDORE
R.P. No.12/19 & R.P. No.14/19 (-2-)

 The aforesaid aspect is factually incorrect. A show-
cause was certainly issued Annexure P-10 dated 15.09.2016
and based upon the fact finding inquiry, which reflects that
the petitioners are the beneficiaries of manipulations done in
the answer-sheets, the impugned orders have been passed
and in those circumstances, both the writ petitions have been
dismissed. There is no error apparent on the face of the record
warranting review. The Apex Court in the case of Haridas
Das Vs. Usha Rani Bank (Smt) and Ors. , reported in
(2006) 4 SCC 78 in paragraph 13 and 20 has held as under :- 20. When the aforesaid principles are applied to the background
 facts of the present case, the position is clear that the High Court
 had clearly fallen in error in accepting the prayer for review.
 First, the crucial question which according to the High Court
 was necessary to be adjudicated was the question whether Title
 Suit No. 201 of 1985 (sic 1 of 1986) was barred by the
 provisions of Order 2 Rule 2 CPC . This question arose in Title
 Suit No. 1 of 1986 and was irrelevant so far as Title Suit No. 2
 of 1987 is concerned. Additionally, the High Court erred in
 holding that no prayer for leave under Order 2 Rule 2 CPC was
 made in the plaint in Title Suit No. 201 of 1985. The claim of
 oral agreement dated 19-8-1982 is mentioned in para 7 of the
 plaint, and at the end of the plaint it has been noted that the right
 to institute the suit for specific performance was reserved. That
 being so, the High Court has erroneously held about infraction
 of Order 2 Rule 2 CPC . This was not a case where Order 2 Rule
 2 CPC has any application." In the aforesaid case, the Apex Court has held that
rehearing of a case can be done on account of some mistake
or an error apparent on the face of the record or for any other
sufficient reason. In the present case, there is no error
apparent on the face of the record and the petitioner in fact
under the guise of review is challenging the order passed by
this Court, which is under review. Similarly the Apex Court
in the case of State of West Bengal and Ors. Vs. Kamal
Sengupta and Anr. , reported in (2008) 8 SCC 612 in
paragraphs 21, 22 and 35 has held as under:- In the aforesaid case the Apex Court has held that a
mistake or an error apparent on the face of the record means
a mistake or an error which is prima-facie visible and does
not require any detail examination. In the present case the
petitioner has not been able to point out any error apparent
on the face of the record, on the contrary this Court has
decided the case on merits. The Apex Court again dealing with the scope of
interference and limitation of review in the case of Inderchand Jain (dead) Through LRs Vs. Motilal (dead)
Through LRs, reported in (2009) 14 SCC 663 in paragraphs
7, 22, 24, 29, 31 and 33 has held as under :- 24. An appeal is a continuation of the suit. Any decision taken by
 the appellate court would relate back, unless a contrary intention
 is shown, to the date of institution of the suit. There cannot be
 any doubt that the appellate court while exercising its appellate
 jurisdiction would be entitled to take into consideration the
 subsequent events for the purpose of moulding the relief as
 envisaged under Order 7 Rule 7 read with Order 41 Rule 33 of
 the Code of Civil Procedure . The same shall, however, not mean
 that the court would proceed to do so in a review application
 despite holding that the plaintiff was not entitled to grant of a
 decree for specific performance of contract. 29. Order 41 Rule 1 of the Code stipulates that filing of an
 appeal would not amount to automatic stay of the execution of
 the decree. The law acknowledges that during pendency of the
 appeal it is possible for the decree-holder to get the decree
 executed. The execution of the decree during pendency of the
 appeal would, thus, be subject to the restitution of the property in
 the event the appeal is allowed and the decree is set aside. The
 court only at the time of passing a judgment and decree reversing
 that of the appellate court should take into consideration the
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH: BENCH AT INDORE
R.P. No.12/19 & R.P. No.14/19 (-7-)

 subsequent events, but, by no stretch of imagination, can refuse
 to do so despite arriving at the findings that the plaintiff would
 not be entitled to grant of a decree. 31. Contention of Mr Venugopal that the defendant having
 accepted novation of contract but only the quantum of the
 amount being different, the court could have asked the
 respondent-plaintiff to deposit a further sum of Rs 24,000 cannot
 be accepted for more than one reason. Apart from the fact that
 such a contention had never been raised before the appellate
 court, keeping in view the finding of fact arrived at that there had
 in fact been no novation of contract, such a course of action was
 not open. In any view of the matter, the same would amount to
 reappreciation of evidence which was beyond the review
 jurisdiction of the High Court. 33. The High Court had rightly noticed the review jurisdiction of
 the court, which is as under: In our opinion, the principles of law enumerated by it, in the
 facts of this case, have wrongly been applied." The Apex Court while dealing with the scope of review
has held that re-appreciation of evidence and rehearing of
case without there being any error apparent on the face of the
record is not permissible in light of provisions as contained
U/s 114 and Order 47 Rule 1 of Code of Civil Procedure ,
1908. The Apex Court in the case of S. Bagirathi Ammal Vs.
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH: BENCH AT INDORE
 R.P. No.12/19 & R.P. No.14/19 (-8-)

 Palani Roman Catholic Mission, reported in (2009) 10
 SCC 464 in paragraphs 12 and 26 has held as under :- Keeping in view the aforesaid judgment, this Court
 does not find any reason to review the order dated
 15.11.2018 passed in Writ Petition No.8566/2016. Review
 Petition No.12/2019 is accordingly dismissed. Another review petition i.e. R.P. No.14/2019 is also
 dismissed. No order as to costs. Certified copy as per rules.