What’s the news: Aggregator companies Big Basket, Swiggy, Urban Company and Zomato scored 6 out of 10 in the Fairwork Rating report of 2024 in possession of Medianama, with Urban Company scoring significant improvement in terms of fair management. Of the 11 platforms the report studied, Swiggy and Zomato received a better score for fair contracts and fair management categories respectively, while Big Basket’s score remained the same across categories.

How Fairwork Ratings works: The annual report studies working conditions of platform workers on digital labour platforms in India. To assess platforms’ minimum standards of work, the report focused on five aspects with two points attributed to each: fair pay, fair conditions, fair contracts, fair management, and fair representation. Aside from the aforementioned companies, ride-hailing platform BluSmart scored five points, Zepto scored four points, Amazon Flex scored two points and Flipkart scored a single point. Other apps like Ola, Porter and Uber failed to score in any of the categories.

Urban Company management overhaul: The aggregator scored a total of six points with one point each for fair pay and fair contracts and two points for fair conditions and fair management. When compared to the 2023 report, it is observed that Urban Company’s rating in terms of fair contracts decreased by half (from two points to a single point). However, the platform also managed to gain a full score (two points) in the fair management category. As per the report, this means that the platform in a year has ensured: an effective grievance redressal policy, developed its escalation process, worked on anti-discrimination policies and institutionalised regular independent external audits of algorithms to avoid bias. It may be noted that its current score is still lower than the 2022 score of seven points.

Identical score for Swiggy and Zomato: Both food aggregator companies scored two points in the categories of fair conditions, fair contracts and fair management. In 2023 as well, the companies scored five points each, with Swiggy scoring only one point for fair conditions and Zomato scoring one point for fair management.

Flipkart and Uber scores plummet: Flipkart scored only one point in 2024 for fair management. In 2023, the platform had scored one point each in the categories of fair pay, fair conditions and management, indicating worsening working conditions for workers. Meanwhile Uber, which scored a single point for fair conditions in 2023, did not score a single point in any category in 2024.

Dunzo removed from Fairwork Ratings list: In 2023, logistics service platform Dunzo scored one point for fair contracts. However, the researchers decided to drop the company from the 2024 assessment stating that “the team had difficulties recruiting enough workers across the various cities, a reflection of the platform’s uncertain future.”

The Fairwork Ratings report considered 11 companies this year for their assessment. For one of the assessment categories, fair representation, “platforms must have documented mechanisms for the collective expression of the voices of all workers, ensure that workers’ freedom of association is not inhibited, and have a written statement of willingness to recognise or negotiate with a collective, independent body of workers.” However, at least since 2022, no company has managed to score a point in this category.

“There was insufficient evidence from any of the 11 platforms for even the first point under Fair Representation in 2024. Despite many instances of workers’ protests and strikes across the country, and legislative changes addressing the platform economy over the years, platforms in India refuse to formally recognise or negotiate with workers’ collectives,” said the report.

In June 2024, Amazon India’s warehouse workers made the news as they reported drastic working conditions worsened by India’s heatwave . The workers even received the attention of the National Human Rights Commission . However, workers said that apart from news reports of the company admitting to illegal operations and unfair labour practices in its Haryana warehouses, the company has remained silent on the topic.

Around the same time, hundreds of women gig and platform workers, mostly from North-East India, stormed the Urban Company’s Bengaluru headquarters to protest ‘auto’ job assignment feature on the platform. The workers union termed the terms and conditions as “horrific” and said the same puts many workers “under slavery like situations.”

Further, in January 2024, Telangana Gig and Platform Workers Union (TGPWU) extended support to the drivers in India protesting against the hit-and-run provision in the new criminal Bill Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita Act, 2023 on January 2, 2024. Gig-drivers worried the law may lead to their undue harassment.

Various unions like the Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT) are trying to join the policy discussion around gig work, as seen during the consultation period of the draft Karnataka Platform-based Gig Workers (Social Security and Welfare Bill), 2024. Yet, as per the Fairwork report, the unions are yet to be recognised by the platforms their members work for.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event