SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: I lost/misplaced my passport! Need to understand the process better.
DATE: 2023-01-08
SCORE: 9
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/106c8ij/i_lostmisplaced_my_passport_need_to_understand/

--- POST TEXT ---

I misplaced my relatively new passport at home last month. Basically, it went Houdini and I had to reschedule my trip abroad. As advised on PSK's website, I got an affidavit made to declare the loss of my passport and filed a complaint at the police station. This entailed me writing a statement on a piece of paper and then giving it to them. They didn't give anything in return except the same document with the police station stamp on it, a signature and some sort of docket number. All along, they kept telling me that they aren't involved in the whole passport jig anymore since it went online. 

I applied under the Tatkaal scheme and had an appointment the other day. I went there and was told that lost/damaged passports ka application can't be filed under Tatkaal and I'll have to reapply under normal. I was like WTF, I filled out your form online on the official website and the first thing it asks me is the reason for the reissue, which I ticked as "lost/damaged". Why did it let me complete the application process like this in the first place? They were initially like "Yeah, that must be a fake website". I showed them the website on my phone and then they showed me this clandestine pop-up circular wherein a small embedded link shows you that Lost/Damaged Passports do not figure under "Tatkaal" scheme.

So yeah, money down the drain and I'll be reapplying under "Normal" and enduring the torture of waiting 100 years to receive my passport and dealing with thullas for "police verification". 

In any case, I needed help in understanding the following: 

1. What does a "police report in original" look like? I can't find anything helpful online in this regard.

2. For Annexure F, the form doesn't have any fields to fill in answer to the questions posed. I did get an affidavit made where some of the more basic how, why and what type of questions are answered. Will that suffice? 

To an extent, I realise that this is punishment for losing my passport in the first place. All and any help or guidance in this regard will be much appreciated.