Meta took action against three cyber espionage networks from South Asia that targeted people in India and Pakistan, including military personnel. The company also took action against accounts involved in coordinated inauthentic behavior originating from China and targeted at India. The Facebook and Instagram parent revealed this on May 3 in its Quarterly Adversarial Threat Report .

Why does this matter: Meta’s report sheds light on the types of cyber threats that India faces and who the people behind them are. The report also elaborates on how these threat actors target their victims.

“Cyber espionage actors typically target people across the internet to collect intelligence, manipulate them into revealing information, and compromise their devices and accounts,” Meta explained.

This quarter, the company took action against the following three actors, who are “all long-running advanced persistent threat (APT) groups targeting people across the internet.”

1. Pakistan-based APT: “We took action against about 120 accounts on Facebook and Instagram linked to a hacking group in Pakistan that predominantly targeted people in India and Pakistan, including military personnel in India and among the Pakistan Air Force. Our investigation connected it to state-linked actors in Pakistan,” Meta informed. Even though this group’s activities were low in sophistication, they targeted many services across the internet, Meta explained.

The tactics used by the group include:

2. Bahamut APT: “We took action against about 110 accounts on Facebook and Instagram linked to a hacking group known in the security community as Bahamut. It targeted people in Pakistan, India, including the Kashmir region, including military personnel, government employees, activists, and others.” Meta explained.

The group ran multiple campaigns across the internet, “including link-shortening services, compromised or attacker-controlled websites, official and spoofed app stores, and third-party hosting providers. They maintained a range of fictitious personas in an attempt to socially engineer people throughout South Asia into providing information or compromising their mobile devices,” Meta elaborated.

The tactics used by the group include:

3. Patchword APT: “We took action against around 50 accounts on Facebook and Instagram linked to a hacking group in India known in the security industry as Patchwork. It targeted people in Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, the Tibet region, and China, including military personnel, activists, and minority groups.”

The tactics used by the group include:

Apart from going after cyber espionage networks, Meta also frequently takes down coordinated inauthentic behavior (CIB), which the company defines as “coordinated efforts to manipulate public debate for a strategic goal, in which fake accounts are central to the operation.”

While Meta found and removed multiple networks involved in CIB, of relevance to India is CIB which originated from China.

“We removed 50 Facebook accounts, 46 Pages, 31 Groups, and 10 accounts on Instagram for violating our policy against coordinated inauthentic behavior. This activity originated in China and targeted India and the Tibet region,” Meta informed.

“This network posted in English and Tibetan about news and current events in India and Tibet, including articles and memes that criticized the Indian government and military, questioned claims of human-rights abuses in Tibet raised by Western journalists, and accused Western countries of human rights abuses. The operation also posted news articles by legitimate news outlets from the region, likely to make its fake brands appear more authentic,” Meta elaborated.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event