(per Honble Dr. Justice B. Siva Sankara Rao) 

 Aggrieved by the order and decree dated 07.08.2013 passed by
the Additional Senior Civil Judge, Narasaraopet, Guntur District, in
H.M.O.P.No.106 of 2011 filed by Smt. Grandhi Poorna Seetha 
Manoja under Section 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (for
brevity the H.M. Act ) to declare her marriage performed on
15.08.2008 at Srisailam with the respondent therein-cum-appellant
herein, by name Shaik Mohammad Rafi, as null and void, since 
allowed, the appellant herein maintained the present appeal under Section 28 of the H.M. Act. 2. The contentions in the grounds of appeal are that, the
impugned order is contrary to law, the learned trial Judge failed to
consider the very maintainability of the claim under Section 12 of the
H.M. Act, that too for having not been filed petition within one year
from the date of the marriage on the ground of the alleged force and
for having lived with him and lead marital life subsequent to the
undisputed marriage performed on 15.08.2008 till 05.09.2009, when
she was taken from the house of the appellant and also for the reason
that she was born on 25.08.1991 as per her SSC Certificate and the
claim that she is a minor to annul the marriage thereby also is
untenable, apart from no alleged force much less against her will,
further without any police report, if at all there is any truth in between
either of her or by her father and that falsifies the entire pleading in
support of the claim, that the trial Court failed to appreciate all these
facts and circumstances and the oral and documentary evidence in
reference thereto, in particular, for the petition allegations of fraud or
force or threat or coercion, there is no material but for the evidence of
P.Ws.1 and 2, that the main focus of the evidence of P.Ws.1 and 2 is
on money and properties of them and to get rid of the appellant on one
or the other technical grounds, that without even obtaining divorce
from the appellant, the respondent again in marrying one Kanram
Ramu @ Sitaramudu shows the character of her and her father, that
the trial Court also failed to see that it is at the instance of the
petitioner and her parents, he was converted from his Muslim
religious community to Hindu religion in the presence and consent of
elders of both sides and by given him in adoption to one Chaluvadi
Venkata Subba Rao and Kameswari and through them in performing 
the marriage with the respondent as per Hindu rites and customs,
which all establish the defence of the appellant before the trial Court,
also from his evidence as R.W.1 with reference to Exs.R.1 to R.8 and
that all belies the claim of his wife and her evidence as P.W.1 and of
her father P.W.2, and Exs.P.1 to P.23, that the trial Court ought to
have seen that P.W.1 deposed before Additional Munsif Magistrate
Court, Chilakaluripeta, in C.C.No.342 of 2009 of the
appellant/husband never harassed her during their one year marital life
together in the same roof willingly and thus, the impugned order of
the trial Court declaring the marriage as null and void is nothing but
on imaginary and baseless finding without proper appreciation of the
version of the petitioner/wife proving to be untrue and ingenuine and
outcome of wrong conclusions and findings and by not adverting to
the requirement of finding of no fraud and no coercion and hence to
set aside the same by dismissing the claim in H.M.O.P.No.106 of
2011 of the trial Court. 3. It is the contention of the learned counsel for
appellant/husband in support of the above, that the marriage was
undisputedly performed on 15.08.2008 and the respondent/wife was 
taken from the company of the appellant/husband on 05.09.2009, till
then they lived together happily after his conversion to Hindu religion
and was given in adoption to one Hindu Vysya couple viz., Chaluvadi
Venkata Subba Rao and Kameswari and the petition was filed on 
15.07.2010, later numbered as H.M.O.P.No.106 of 2011 and by then, 
she was aged about 17 years and from 05.09.2009 when the force 
ceased, for nothing to continue after she was taken out from his
company, if at all to allege anything happened earlier, there is no
explanation for nearly ten months after 05.09.2009 till filing of
petition on 15.07.2010 for annulment of marriage and the cause of
action is also as vague as anything in the claim and that, in fact, the
petitioner and respondent prior to the marriage performed on
15.08.2008, though of different religions, they fell in love and after
agreed to marry, he was converted and given in adoption and the
marriage under Hindu Law was performed supra at Srisailam temple 
and even the petition averments under Section 12 of the H.M. Act, at
para-3, no way shows the consent of her or her parents obtained by
force or fraud, much less as to any material fact or circumstance
concerning him or her and the allegation of any fraud by him much
less to the alleged idea to knock away her property or of her parents;
same is even baseless for the fact that, her parents obtained documents
from her before the date of marriage and it is only conceived for the
petition purpose as if the appellant and his brother boosted about their
financial status of possessing of properties in and around
Chilakaluripeta and at Chennai, for nothing to say that they did not
enquire and he did not possess, and so far as his qualification and job,
he worked and in subsequent liquidation or shifting of any entity
where he worked that is not a ground to say that he never worked,
much less not possessed any qualification, and the so called Birth
Certificate dated 28.11.1991 of the petitioner obtained from
Chilakaluripeta Municipality is ingenuine, but for her SSC age proof
of 25.08.1991 that is correct, that the alleged threats with dire
consequences in performing the marriage of the appellant with the
petitioner/wife are untrue and conceived only for the purpose of
petition claim, with no whisper had there been any truth much less by
any complaint to police and thereby the documentary evidence, placed
reliance under Exs.P.1 to P.23, no way shows that there is any fraud
played by the appellant much less to give cause of action therefrom to
seek for annulment, apart from no force, as referred to supra, and
sought for allowing the appeal, as prayed for. 4. Whereas it is the contention of the learned counsel for appeal
respondent/wife, who was no other than the petitioner before the trial
Court, that the entire petition averments must be construed as a whole
even for the existence of cause of action to support the claim, that in
cause of action para, though it is required to state the material facts,
that is not the be all and end all, as per the settled expressions for any
attempt by the appellant to make a mountain out of the moul hill,
that she was a minor at the time of marriage as can be seen from the
record and there was no conversion of the appellant herein
(respondent before the trial Court) from Muslim religion to Hindu
religion much less to say the marriage was validly performed, for
nothing admitted, but for the so called ceremony of marriage, that too
under fraud and force, that the petitioner/wife since minor, her parents
were subjected to threat in cause performing the marriage by him
under the show, through his relatives and after the alleged ceremony,
taken away and not allowed her to come out all through by confining
her till 05.09.2009; that too, it is on the complaint to police, the police
could bring out the petitioner/wife from his wrongful confinement on
05.09.2009 as pleaded in the petition and it is therefrom on enquiry,
after her coming out from the shock and also when consulted through
Advocate the various Firms where he claims worked, the true colours
of him had came to light of his no qualification and never worked and
those are fake documents to make believe, which is nothing but fraud
and, in particular, Ex.P.6 r/w. Exs.P.7 and P.12 itself show that it is
impossible for him to work in two places, one at Hyderabad and
another at Pune, that too during the same period, which he could not
explain, that is nothing but a grave fraud that he perpetrated to make
believe as if he is a qualified and wealthy and in good job, in
introducing through his brother to make believe the minor girl and
with threat and force enticed practically and the evidence regarding
force is covered by pleadings at page-2 with reference to the evidence
of P.W.1 and also the cross-examination of P.W.2 and the complaint
of P.W.2 under Ex.P.1 dated 3.2.2010, apart from Ex.P.19 copy of
F.I.R. in Crime No.240 of 2009 and also the force, followed by fraud
from the petition averments at page-3 and the evidence of P.Ws.1 and
2, including cross-examination of P.W.1 and the evidence of R.W.1 at
page-2, to show that he is only a Fair Price shop dealer without any
worthy qualification and never worked in any Software entity, as the
letters cause addressed by the parents of the petitioner through their
advocate disclosed the entities non-est, so also the alleged salary
certificates under Exs.P.7 and P.9 to P.12 and the trial Court was right
in coming to the conclusion supported by reasons of she is a victim of
fraud and the claim for annulment filed within one year from the date
of the fraud discovered and force ceases, as the petition was filed on
15.7.2010, which is within one year after the force ceased to operate
from 5.9.2009 even and of the fraud discovered during March, 2010,
from Exs.P.13 to P.18 and the admissions of R.W.1 also supports the 
same and it is through police, P.W.1 came out from his custody as it is
her case that earlier not allowed her and even the appeal ground
Nos.2, 5 and 8 speak that the appellant and respondent lived only till
5.9.2009 to substantiate from the admission also of after marriage
date, she was in his custody for not allowed to come out, according to
her, and thereby sought for dismissal of the appeal. 5. Perused the material on record. The parties are being
referred to as the petitioner/wife and respondent/husband, for the sake
of convenience, as arrayed before the trial Court. 6. Now, the points that arise for consideration are that
(1) Whether the marriage dated 15.08.2008 of the
petitioner with the respondent is not void or voidable
and not outcome of force or fraud within the meaning
of Section 5 , r/w. Section 12 of the H.M. Act? (2) If so, the impugned order dated 7.8.2013 of the trial
Court by holding the marriage as null and void is
unsustainable and requires interference by this Court,
while sitting in appeal and, if so, with what
observations and with what conclusions in relation to
their marital tie to continue or not? and
(3) To what result? In re. to Point Nos.1 and 2 : 7. Undisputedly, the acquaintance between the petitioner and
respondent was through the brother of the respondent, by name Shaik
Kareemullah, who developed friendship while the petitioner was
studying I Year Intermediate during the year 2008-09 in Vivekananda
College, Chilakaluripeta. The petitioner is a Hindu, by birth and
brought up and even as on date, is not in dispute. The respondent is a
Muslim by birth, so also his parents, brother and family members.
According to him, he was converted into Hindu religion in order to
marry the petitioner. He is major by the year 2008 itself and even
prior to the so called marriage on 15.08.2008, he also claims that he
was adopted to one Chaluvadi Venkata Subba Rao and Kameswari. 
The so called conversion and the so called adoption are in dispute
from the petitioner, including from the evidence on record that of
P.Ws.1 and 2 and from the cross-examination of the respondent as 
R.W.1. 8. The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (Act 28 of 1955) came into
force with effect from 18.5.1955. Section 2 of the H.M. Act
contemplates that it applies to any person, who is a Hindu by religion
or Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh, and as per Section 2 , sub-section (1) of
clause (c), to any other person, who is not a Muslim, Christian, Parsi
or Jew by religion, unless it is proved that any such person would
have been governed by Hindu Law or by any custom or usage as part 
of law in respect of any of the matters dealt with herein, if this Act
had not been passed. 9. As per the explanation, the following persons are Hindus,
Buddhists, Jains or Sikhs by religion, as the case may be (a) and (b) .; and (c) any person, who is a convert or re-convert to the
Hindu, Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh religion. 10. Section 4 of the H.M. Act gives overriding effect of the Act
in saying, save as otherwise expressly provided to the provisions of
the Act, over any text, rule or interpretation of Hindu Law or custom
or usage as part of it in force before commencement of the Act or
even any other Law in force before commencement of the Act. 11. From the above, a Hindu is an excluding definition to say
other than Muslim or Christian or Parsi or Jew, but may include a
person, who is a convert or re-convert to any of the Hindu, Buddhist,
Jaina or Sikh religions. 12. It is for the respondent to establish that he was converted
into Hindu religion from Muslim religion. The Hindu Marriage Act,
1955 or Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 has not 
provided any procedure for conversion or re-conversion in a particular
manner. 13. The respondent, in his counter opposing the petition for
declaring the marriage as null and void, did not specifically say as to
what is the procedure he adopted to convert into Hindu religion, but
for saying at pages-3 and 4 that both of them fell in love and her
parents did not agree to perform the marriage as he belongs to a
Muslim community and finally they put a condition that if he converts
into Hindu religion, then they would perform their marriage and as he
got love and affection towards her, he agreed for the condition of her
parents and was made to adopt as a son to one Chaluvadi Venkata 
Subba Rao and Kameswari, who are close relatives of the parents of
the petitioner, and he converted from Muslim community to Hindu
community in the presence of priests of both side elders on
15.08.2008 at Srisailam temple. He did not file any certificate, if at all
the said ceremony was performed in Srisailam temple and permitted 
by the temple authorities, in proof of it. 14. From the above averments, he claims that it is in
compliance with the condition put by the parents of the petitioner to
perform his marriage with the petitioner for his conversion to Hindu
religion from his parent-Muslim religion, he agreed and was made to
adopt to one Chaluvadi Venkata Subba Rao and Kameswari, who are 
relatives of the petitioners parents and he converted therefrom. It is
not even his case that it is after conversion, he was adopted, but for
saying that he was made to adopt and was made to convert. The tenor 
of his contention shows that it is not even a voluntary outcome from
that pleading, leave it as it is, even to say voluntary outcome, he
claims mainly as adopted. 15. As per the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 (Act 78 of 1956) (for brevity the H.A.M. Act), which came into
force on 21.12.1956, Section 2 , sub-section (1) clause (c), the H.A.M.
Act has no application to Muslims and the explanation to (c) provides
that any person, who converts or re-converts to Hindu religion, like Section 2 of H.M. Act referred to supra, so also with overriding effect
as of Section 4 of H.M. Act, almost in pari-materia. 16. Even he is allowed to say before the so called adoption, he
was converted into Hindu religion and thereby a Hindu and given in
adoption therefrom to a couple of Vysya community, to which the
petitioner and her parents belong, Chapter-II of the H.A.M. Act,
covered by Sections 5 to 17 , deal with how to regulate adoptions,
requisites of a valid adoption, capacity to take in adoption and to give
in adoption, and with difference in age between a son or a daughter
being taken in adoption to the parents or any of them who can take in
adoption and other conditions and its effect for a valid adoption and
the rights flow from adoption and the presumption from any registered
document of a valid adoption. 17. As per Section 5 , sub-section (2) of the H.A.M. Act, an
adoption, which is void, shall neither creates any rights in adoptive
family nor destroys the rights of any person in the family of his or her
birth, and as per Section 9 , father or mother or guardian of a child
shall have the capacity to give the child in adoption and, as per Section 10 , an adoptee must also be a Hindu and not married and not
completed the age of 15 years and, as per Section 11 , for adoption of a
son, the adoptive father or mother to take must not have a son. There
is no registered deed of adoption to presume the so called adoption,
apart from the adoption is void, as no customary usage is proved to
claim as adopted son of the so called Chaluvadi Venkata Subba Rao 
and Kameswari, for the respondent was even by then undisputedly a 
major and for having completed 15th year, by which the adoption is
not valid otherwise. 18. Besides the factum of adoption is not valid, even taken for
arguments sake, any such adoption, apart from the same not proved by 
any evidence and despite the same in dispute; coming to the so called
conversion, even for arguments sake, before the alleged adoption
otherwise even void, there is no specific pleading as to what is the
procedure adopted for conversion, much less evidence of him as
R.W.1 or by cross-examination of P.Ws.1 and 2. 19. In this regard, the learned counsel for respondent/husband
placed reliance mainly upon the 3-Judges Bench expression of the
Apex Court in PERUMAL NADAR (DEAD) BY LRs. Vs. 
PONNUSWAMI , leave about the other expression of Kerala High 
Court in In. RE: BETSY AND SADANANDAN , in saying intention 
to convert is enough, in paras-6 to 9 in the controversy as to the wife
converted from Christianity to Hinduism, which reads thus: I.L.R. [1940] Mad. 653 Mockett, J., observed that no gesture or declaration may
change a man's religion, but when on the facts it appears that a man did change
his religion and was accepted by his co-religists as having changed his religion
and lived and died in that religion, absence of some formality cannot negative
what is an actual fact. Krishnaswami Ayyangar, J., observed that a Hindu who
had converted himself to the Christian faith returned to Hinduism and contracted
a second marriage during the lifetime of his first wife and remained and died a
Hindu having been accepted as such by the community and co-religionists 
without demur. Absence of evidence of rituals relating to conversion cannot
justify the Court in treating him as having remained a Christian. 9. The evidence clearly establishes that the parents of Annapazham arranged the
marriage. The marriage was performed according to Hindu rites and ceremonies
in the presence of relatives who were invited to attend : customary ceremonies
peculiar to a marriage between Hindus were performed : no objection was raised
to the marriage and after the marriage Annapazham was accepted by the local
Hindu Nadar community as belonging to the Hindu faith, and the plaintiff was
also treated as a Hindu. On the evidence there can be no doubt that Annapazham 
bona fide intended to contract marriage with Perumal. Absence of specific
expiatory or purificatory ceremonies will not, in our judgment, be sufficient to
hold that she was not converted to Hinduism before the marriage ceremony was 
performed. The fact that Perumal chose to go through the marriage ceremony
according to Hindu rites with Annapazham in the presence of a large number of
persons clearly indicates that he accepted that Annapazham was converted to
Hinduism before the marriage ceremony was performed. 20. No doubt, from the above expression, no particular
ceremony is required and bona fide intention to convert is enough
followed by faith and belief in Hinduism for the respondent besides
being accepted by the local Hindu community and treatment of him as 
Hindu to say that he has converted. Here that evidence is lacking,
apart from his say of not any bonafide intention to convert, but for
unwillingly and only to marry the petitioner for a condition stated
imposed of conversion to fulfill and not even stated lived as Hindu.
Though it is contended that even the so called adoption is void, his
conversion no way invalidates for he being a major by the time of
marriage, in saying thereby the marriage is not per se void, it is
besides not proved conversion as discussed supra, not of him to avoid
thereby, but for the special grounds of the wife seeking to annul from
her say of any fraud or force referred to supra. Exs.R.1 to R.7 of him,
in particular, Ex.R.1 Photos covered by Ex.R.7 DVDs also, according
to him, shows that some ceremony was performed regarding marriage 
and claims it is included the alleged ceremony of adoption and
conversion, while adopting. In fact, the very adoption void and there
is no any voluntary conversion with the intention to convert with faith
in Hindu religion and its observance and propagation thereafter, much
less recognized him as Hindu even by the Hindu community. 21. So far as the cause of action and its existence is concerned,
a perusal of the petition averments, as a whole, clearly indicates that
there exists cause of action from 5.9.2009 and later on even para-5 of
the petition has not mentioned the date 05.09.2009, to say the same is
no way fatal. It is for the reason that cause of action means the bundle
of facts which are necessary to establish the claim of a party to grant
relief so as to prove. Thereby, it is to be considered from the pleadings
as a whole of the petition claim, cause of action exist or not to
consider. That is the reason why if from the reading of the plaint as a
whole, where it does not disclose a cause of action, liable for rejection
and not for mere non-mention of all material facts in the cause of
action para. Thus, it is substance and not form that is criteria. In this
regard, the Apex Court in KEDAR LAL SEAL AND ANOTHER Vs. 
HARI LAL SEAL at para-51 observed in categorical terms that the
Court would be slow to throw out a claim on a mere technicality of
pleading when the substance of the thing is there and no prejudice is
caused to the other side, however clumsily or inartistically the plaint
may be worded. In any event, it is always open to a Court to give a
plaintiff such general or other relief as it deems just to the same extent
as it had been asked for, provided that occasions no prejudice to the
other side beyond what can be compensated for, in costs. 22. It is also laid down in the other expression of the 4-Judges
Bench of the Apex Court in BHAGWATI PRASAD Vs. 
CHANDRAMAUL , particularly in paras-9 and 10 that undoubtedly 
if a party asks for relief on a clear and specific ground; and in the
issues at the trial, no other ground is covered either by directly or by
necessary implication, it would not be open to the said party to
attempt to sustain the same claim on a ground which is entirely new.
But in considering the application of this doctrine to the facts of a
particular case, Court must bear in mind the other principle that
considerations of form cannot override the legitimate considerations
of substance-AIR 1953 SC 235 and AIR 1954 SC 758. If a plea is not
specifically made and yet it is covered by an issue by implication and
the parties knew that the said plea was involved in the trial, then the
mere fact that the plea was not expressly taken in the pleadings would
be purely formal and technical and cannot succeed in every case.
What the Court has to consider in dealing with such an objection is
did not the parties know that the matter in question was involved in
the trial, and did they lead evidence about it? If it appears that the
parties did not know that the matter was in issue at the trial and one of
them has had no opportunity to lead evidence in respect of it, that
undoubtedly would be a different matter. To allow one party to rely
upon a matter in respect of which the other party did not lead evidence
and has had no opportunity to lead evidence, would introduce
considerations of prejudice, and in doing justice to one party, the
Court cannot do injustice to another. 23. Further, in KULDEEP SINGH vs. GANPAT LAL the 
Apex Court held that even an error of a fact as to date of cause of
action mentioned in plaint not a fatal to the maintainability of the
plaint in saying it is in plaint claim that requires to constitute existence
of cause of action. 24. From the above, now coming to the petition claim under Section 5 r/w. Section 12 of the H.M. Act that was granted by the trial
Court, impugned in the appeal by the respondent/husband as 
appellant, Section 5 of the H.M. Act reads as follows: 25. As per Section 5 of the H.M. Act, if the marriage is not
solemnized between any two Hindus (of opposite sex), it is not valid.
Further, particularly from clause (3) of the Section, the petitioner/wife
must be completed the age of 18 years at the time of her marriage.
Even from the say by respondent/husband, while disputing her date of
birth as 28.11.1991 as per the Certificate issued by the Municipality
under Ex.P.2 dated 29.3.1995, with his claim in appeal ground No.3,
though not in his counter to the petition, that as per her SSC
Certificate, she was born on 25.8.1991, which, if relates to Ex.R.8
filed and exhibited, therefrom also she did not complete 17 years by
the marriage date 15.08.2008. 26. Section 13 of the H.M. Act, which deals with dissolution of
marriage by a decree of divorce on any of seven grounds specified, of
which Ground No.2 deals with conversion from Hindu to another
religion and ceased to be a Hindu. If the very conversion to Hinduism
from other religion not taken place as required, there is no marriage in
the eye of law even from any ceremony of marriage for both must be
Hindus at the time of marriage is a condition precedent; even no
specific provision made to annul inter-religious marriage. Further,
under Section 13 (1- A) of the H.M. Act , two more grounds specified
and additionally by Section 13(2) of the H.M. Act, four more special
grounds provided to wife, of which the 4th ground covered by Section
13 , sub-section (2) clause (iv) reads that her marriage (whether
consummated or not) was solemnized before she attained the age of 
fifteen years and she has repudiated the marriage after attaining that
age but before attaining the age of eighteen years. 27. No doubt, it is one of the four special grounds to the wife
by virtue of the Marriage Laws Amendment Act (Act 68 of 1976) of
the Act 25 of 1955 and there were no amendments made either by 
adding or deletion or substitution to this Section 13 (2)(iv) ; after the Amended Act 68 of 1976 by the Act 2 of 1978. 28. It is important to note, in this context, that Section 5 of the
H.M. Act referred to supra, clause (3) even amended by substitution
of 21 years age of the bridegroom and 18 years age of the bride,
respectively, at the time of marriage, for 18 years and 15 years,
respectively, by the Marriage Laws Amendment Act (Act 2 of 1978) 
with effect from 1.10.1978, equally Section 13 sub-section (2) clause (iv) was supposed to be, however, it was not amended from 15 to 18
years and 18 to 21 years, respectively. The objects and intention of the Amended Act 2 of 1978 is not specific for such omission with any
purpose, much less to retain 18 years and 15 years in Section 13(2)(iv) of the H.M. Act, while amending Section 5 clause (iii) to 21 years and
18 years, respectively. It is, in fact, from a perusal clearly indicates a
mistake in non-incorporation while amending Section 5(iii) ,in Section
13(2)(iv) of the Act with same amendment to say it is a causes
omissus by the Legislature that is required to be supplied by the Court
within its interpretative arena. In DENTAL COUNCIL OF INDIA vs.
HARI PRAKASH , at para-7, page 69, the Apex Court categorically 
held that the intention of the Legislature to be gathered primarily from
the language used is by paying attention of not only what has been
said but also what has not been said though supposed to be as the
textual interpretation must also match the contextual interpretation. To
read Section 13 sub-section (2) clause (iv) of the H.M. Act also as
amended by Marriage Laws Amended Act , (Act 2 of 1978) by 
increasing the age from 15 years to 18 years of bride and 18 years to
21 years of bride groom at the time of marriage for the wife to
repudiate before attaining the age of 21 years of the marriage
performed before attaining the age of 18 years, from Section 5 clause (iii) speaks for a valid marriage, the bride must complete 18 years and
the bridegroom must complete 21 years as per the Marriage Laws 
Amendment Act 2 of 1978. No doubt, Section 18(a) of the H.M. Act 
provides that there are penal consequences for Section 5(iii) violation. 29. It is, no doubt, from the above, the submission of the
learned counsel for petitioner/wife in the appeal is that, apart from the
trial Courts order withstands for nothing to interfere and supported by
reasons and well considered one, for any other reason, besides the
very marriage be held otherwise as non-est for the respondent is not a
Hindu by any conversion validly; even it is a ground under Section 13
sub-section (2) clause (iii) of the H.M. Act to grant divorce, which is
not a higher relief to the annulment sought for, by invoking Section 23
of H.M. Act r/w, Order 41 Rules 24 and 33 C.P.C. 30. In support of the said contention, the learned counsel
placed reliance upon two expressions of the Apex Court in KEDAR 
LAL SEAL (3 supra) and BHAGWATI PRASAD (4 supra) saying, 
when there is evidence on record and also pleading and to the
understanding of both parties, for nothing prejudiced, the right of the
appellant as respondent before the trial Court for such relief to mould
within the power of this Court, including under Order 41 Rules 24 and
33 of C.P.C. 31. In this regard, it is also necessary to refer the expressions
placed reliance further by both parties across the Bench, viz., (1) a
Full Bench expression of this Court in P. VENKATARAMANA v. 
STATE on the scope of Section 5 clause (iii) of the H.M. Act supra
and Section 13 , sub-section (2) clause (iv) of the H.M. Act supra, also
referring to Sections 11 , 12 and 18 of the H.M. Act. It was therein
held that any marriage solemnized in contravention of Section 5 clause (iii) of the H.M. Act neither void nor voidable and the only
consequence being that persons concerned are liable for punishment
under Section 18 of the H.M. Act. If the requirements of Section 13 ,
sub-section (2) clause (iv) inserted by the Marriage Laws Amendment
Act, 1976 are satisfied, at the instance of the bride, a decree of divorce
can be granted. Barring these two consequences, after the Marriage
Laws Amendment Act, 1976 , there is no other consequences 
whatsoever resulting from the contravention of the provisions of Section 5 clause (iii) and with that conclusion, overruled the earlier
Division Bench expression of this Court in P.A. SARAMMA v. G. 
GANAPATULU AIR 1975 AP 193 (DB), holding that the marriage 
performed of the bride below 15 years at the time of marriage is void
ab initio for no marriage in the eye of law, which is in answering a
bigamous marriage by husband subsequently is punishable or not, 
holding the first marriage since void, second marriage cannot be
called as bigamous. 32. It is important to note that as per 1976 Marriage Laws
Amendment Act , Section 5 clause (iii), the age of the bridegroom not
completed 18 years and bride not completed 15 years, is not a valid
marriage. The consequences, as held by the above Full Bench 
expression, was punishment under Section 18 of the H.M. Act for
such marriage and not to hold void ab initio or voidable. In fact, it is
subsequent to the expression, as referred to supra, there is an
amendment to Section 5 clause (iii) by the Amended Act 2 of 1978
with effect from 1.10.1978. Thereby, the Full Bench expression is not
an authority to the facts on hand, even the marriage of the petitioner is
performed after her completion of 16 years before attaining 17th year,
since with effect from 1.10.1978, 15 years to be read as 18 years, to
say within that age. 33. In fact, in the subsequent 3-Judges Bench judgment of this
Court in BATHULA IYLAIAH Vs. BATHULA DEVAMMA held, 
particularly at paras-7 and 8, that the marriage performed once
repudiated before expiry of 18 years, even the petition filed
subsequent to the completion of 18 years, but for later no way
disentitles the relief. It was held that Section 13 sub-section (2) clause (iv) of the H.M. Act , on its isolation gives a right to repudiate the
marriage within that period. The wife even after attaining majority can
maintain a petition and the Court under Section 23 (2) of the H.M.
Act, whether the proceedings is defended or not, if it is satisfied that
there has not been any unnecessary or improper delay in instituting
proceedings, shall grant any relief under the Act. 34. From this later expression, though not referred the earlier
expression in saying the marriage can be repudiated and after
repudiation by conduct, can seek to dissolve and once Section 5 clause (iii) r/w. Section 13 (2)(iv) of the Act, from the causus omissus
supplied, the marriage once not valid for bride not completed 18 years
or groom not completed 21 years, to repudiate by conduct and
thereafter can seek. If at all the relief claimed is even under Section 12 of the H.M. Act, and for that Court, if not satisfied from the material
to annul, it can mould the relief invoking Section 23 (1)(c) & (e) of
the H.M. Act to dissolve. No doubt, in MAKEMALLA SAILOO v. 
SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE, NALGONDA , another Division 
Bench of this Court, referring to Section 5 clause (iii) of H.M. Act ,
held that child marriage not per se illegal, but for punishable under Section 18 of the Act. 35. It is also important, in this context to note that Section 4 of
the Special Marriage Act, 1954 (Act 43 of 1954) is similar to Section
5 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, and as per Section 24 of the
Special Marriage Act, such marriage, which is not valid under Section
4 (c) (like in Section 5(c) of the H.M. Act) is null and void. 36. If this analogy in correlation to the Special Marriage Act is
taken to the combined reading of Section 5(c) r/w. Section 13(2)(iv) ,
even not provided under Section 11 or 12 of the H.M. Act , the same
as a ground, divorce relief can be entitled, even taken for arguments
sake of the Hindu Marriage is not contractual, being sacramental also.
However, the correctness of the two expressions of the Full Bench and
one expression of the Division Bench of this Court, requires
consideration in the touchstone of the expression of the Apex Court in GULLIPILLI SOWRIA RAJ Vs. BANDARU PAVANI ALIAS 
GULLIPILI PAVANI , in which it fallen consideration of Sections 2 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 11 and 12(1)(c) of the H.M. Act regarding validity of the
marriage of a Hindu with another professing Christian faith, although
solemnized in accordance with Hindu customs. It was held by the
Apex Court of said marriage is per se void and even any ceremony or
even further any registration of such marriage under Section 8 of the
H.M. Act would not validate the same. It was, in fact, held that the
word may used in Section 5 of the H.M. Act (a marriage between
any two Hindus solemnized) is mandatory and not directory and does 
not make the provision of that section an optional. Hence, the
application can be filed under Section 12(1)(c) of the H.M. Act by one
of the spouse, in such a case and thus it was rightly allowed by the
High Court by holding that Section 5 is mandatory and in declaring
the marriage as void under Section 12(1)(c) of the Act, by extending
its scope in interpretation of the provision. (The consent of the
petitioner or guardian of the petitioner in the marriage obtained by
force or fraud as to the nature of the ceremony or as to any material
fact or circumstance concerning the respondent). It was observed in
paras-16 and 17 in support of the conclusion that the Preamble itself
indicates that the Act was enacted to codify the law relating to
marriage amongst Hindus. Section 2 of the H.M. Act deals with the
application of the Act reinforces the said proposition. Section 5 of the
H.M. Act thereafter also makes it clear that a marriage may be
solemnized between two Hindus, if the conditions contained in the
said section were fulfilled. Section 7 of the Act is to be read along
with Section 5 (ceremonies of Hindu marriage include Sapthapadi,
apart from other customary rights and ceremonies). Sapthapadi
means taking seven steps jointly before the sacred fire. 37. In this context, it is necessary to reproduce Section 12 of
the H.M. Act, which reads as under: 38. Thus, from the above provisions and precedents supra,
once there is no valid and voluntary conversion and its recognition as
a Hindu of the respondent-husband from parent Muslim religion,
because of the bar under Section 2 and 5 of the H.M.Act, the marriage
is ab initio void. Even otherwise, it can be annulled under Section
12(1)(c) of the H.M.Act and the matrimonial Court under Section
23(1)(c) and (e) of the H.M.Act for the lesser relief, including by this
Court while sitting in appeal can grant the divorce under Section
13(2)(a)(iv) of the H.M.Act as the so called ceremony of marriage of
petitioner and the respondent was performed on 15.08.2008, the
petitioner was born on 28.11.1991 according to her and on 25.08.1991
according to him and even taken the earlier date as her birth date of
25.08.1991, by 15.08.2008 she did not complete 17 years to say by the
time of her marriage she did not complete 18 years and under Section
13(2)(a)(iv) from the causes omissa supplied to read 15 years as 18
years and 18 years as 21 years, for she can repudiate within 21 years,
when by the time the petition for annulment filed on 15.07.2010 she
did not attain 21 years. 39. Thus, at the cost of repetition from what was discussed
earlier, when his version is he was as fell in love with her, made to
convert as Hindu by adoption to a Hindu family by made to convert;
there from there was no voluntary conversion apart from no adoption
validly taken place and there was nothing to show any alleged
conversion of him besides voluntary with any faith in Hinduism which
is the religion of the petitioner, to validate any ceremonies of
marriage, not even adduced any evidence of he was accepted as a 
Hindu by the neighbourhood and the community of Hindus nearby 
and observing any faith in Hinduism without which there is no valid
conversion is the law laid down in Perumal Nadar supra and there is
no valid conversion from Muslim religion to Hindu religion, the very
marriage itself is void ab initio for he is not a Hindu by the time of
marriage, and it is a material fact or circumstance relating to him as
per Section 12(1)(c) of the H.M.Act to annul the marriage otherwise
as per the expression of the Apex Court in Gullapalli Sowria Raj supra. Thus, taken aid of the expressions to the earlier expression of
the Division Bench of this Court referred supra in P.A.Saramma, such
marriage is void ab initio in contravention of Section 5 of the
H.M.Act. 40. Apart from it, so far as the reliefs to be sought for
annulment of marriage under Section 12 of the H.M.Act on the
ground of force or fraud, within one year from the date of force seized
or fraud discovered and if not and if the person with his or her full
consent lived with other party to the marriage, the petition for
annulment wont lie concerned; it is the case of the petitioner that
immediately after the so called ceremony of marriage under threat and
force not voluntary, he has taken her and not even allowed her but for
to the intervention of her father through police complaint by rescued
her at Chilakaluripet, where he kept her within four walls and there
from that force was there on her throughout and it is within no time
after 05.09.2009 when she was brought out from his clutches by her
father through the help of police by complaint, she could narrate what
had happened and she through advocate started consulting about his
background and circumstances and came to know and it is within one 
year after that 05.09.2009, she maintained the petition by 15.07.2010.
Even for arguments sake, the so called force according to her cannot
be believed from what he contests, he did not place any material
muchless with any version of he even allowed her to go to her
parents place, muchless taken her, even that is not at a far distance
for within the same district in different mandal or taluk at best. When
it is his case that he was made to convert, though not voluntarily in
obliging to marry her, as a Hindu, by her parents including by cause
adopted to another family then, there is nothing for him to say she and
her parents are unwilling, and nothing to say even she was not willing
to go to her parents and not even his case of her parents were visiting
and or she was visiting her parents or vice versa, that conduct of him
substantives to the conclusion of she was kept within four corners
under his control out of reach to her parents with no liberty to her and
with no right of privacy to her to say that itself is the force against her
within the meaning of Section 12(1)(c) of the H.M.Act and to say
thereunder the petition filed is within one year as that is the very
pleading and evidence of the petitioner in substantiating the
conclusion to say as rightly arrived by the trial Court though not in so
many specific words. Coming to the fraud within the meaning of Section 12(1)(c) of the H.M.Act on her, even he claimed that her
parents got obtained documents from her before performing marriage
and their contention of his idea is to grab their properties is not
correct; so far as his qualification and placement, so also his job
particulars, so also his means and property particulars concerned, even
it is the specific pleading in the petition though he could deny for
pleading sake specifically otherwise it tantamounts to admission
within the scope of Order VIII Rules 3 to 5 C.P.C for no more proof
or any requirement to lead evidence, even that is the evidence of the
petitioner and her witness with reference to the documents, he could
not file a scrap of paper regarding his qualifications or his job
particulars and existence of the entities where he claimed worked and
if not a ration shop dealer and if got properties; by any rebuttal
evidence to rebut the evidence on the petitioners side. In fact he
could not even dispute the documentary evidence placed reliance by
the petitioner in this regard among Exs.P-1 to P-23. Undisputedly of
his side he is the only witness examined orally and placed reliance
upon Exs.R-1 to R-8 no other than so called adoption and marriage
ceremonies and Satyanarayana Swamy Pooja photos 7 that covered 
from DVD and police final report in Crime No.101 of 2010, certified
copy of C.C. No.292 of 2011, Section 311 Cr.P.C petition with docket
order dated 30.10.2012, F.I.R and charge sheet in C.C. No.143 of
2012, C.C of relinquishment deed, telugu conversation of D.V.Ds
with computer output of the conversations and marks list of S.S.C
were in Ex.R-8. It is to say he could not file even a scrap of paper
regarding his academics. Even it is claimed by the petitioner
including from the evidence by her and her father P.W-2 is only a
ration shop dealer, he could not file any document to say still he is
working in any entity, muchless as software professional. Among
Exs.P-1 to P-23 placed reliance by the petitioner, Ex.P-6 so called
appointment letter of him from E-Vlocilis software solutions, Ex.P-7
copy of salary appraisal letter there from and Ex.P-8 so called salary
slip proved fake from Ex.P-17 and P-18 as even notice cause issued
by petitioner and her father to so called entity it was returned unserved
of no such entity and he could not dispute and could not adduce
rebuttal but for pretending such entities by the time of notice issued
might be closed. Even for that he could not make any efforts to
substantiate and the only conclusion and inference is in proof of the
material by the petitioner of those are fake and he never appointed
muchless worked or drawn salary for its existence is not there at any
time. Same is in relation to Techmatics Solutions so called offer
letter, pay slip under Ex.P-9 and P-10 of December, 2007 and
January, 2008 those are also fake for the entity nonest as proved from
Ex.P-13 legal notice returned unserved and Ex.P-14 as not in
existence. Same is also the position in relation to C.S.Informatics of
so called experience letter and relieve letter of Ex.P-11 and P-12 fake
and untrue for its nonest proved from Ex.P-15 and P-16 legal notice
unserved of its non-existence. Further more, as referred supra from
the combined reading of Ex.P-6 to P-10 with Ex.P-12 and P-11, it is
not possible for him to work in two places one at Hyderabad and the
other at Pune of the alleged entities proved nonest in the relevant same
time during 2007 particularly during June, 2007 that also substantiates
that he played fraud on the petitioner regarding his qualifications and
employment by misrepresentation if not even fraudulent
representation, not only about his alleged qualification, but also about
his alleged employment and means. When this is the material fact or
circumstance regarding him and same came to light only after she was
brought out from his clutches by her father through police help on
05.09.2009 by correspondence through advocate thereafter
particularly in March and April, 2010 that revealed and the
application for annulment of marriage under Section 12(1)(c) filed by
her was on 15.07.2010; it is also squarely within one year after
detection of the fraud and of the material facts and circumstances in
relation to him and that itself is also a ground for annulment of the
marriage. In this regard the Division Bench of this Court in
M.Devender V. A.Sarika held that where respondent married the
petitioner by making misrepresentations including in relation to his
social status or financial status or other material aspects or by
concealing the same in his wrong statements of facts such conduct of
him prone to a ground to the petitioner-wife to seek for nullity of
marriage under Section 12 of the H.M.Act. This conclusion is lending
support from the decisions placed reliance for it vide Smt.Bindu
Sharma V. Ram Prakash Sharma that where husband represents that 
he was having an attractive job but in fact only undergoing training in
a factory and not even having a regular job that misrepresentation of
fact itself a ground for annulment of a marriage as sought by the wife
in granting the relief under Section 12(i)(c) of the H.M.Act and the
other expression in Anurag Anand V. Sunitha Anand also a case 
where husband misrepresented regarding his monthly income and 
property status to the wife while marrying which are nothing but
material facts and circumstances concerning him as a ground as
rightly sought by the wife for annulment. 41. Having regard to the above, without even any necessity for
this Court while sitting in appeal to invoke, Section 23(1)(c) and (e) of
H.M.Act to a lesser relief for divorce under Section 13(2)(iv) of the
H.M.Act with causus omissus supplying by reading with Section 5(iii) of 15 and 18 years as 18 and 21 years respectively to dissolve their
marriage, from the very marriage is null and void ab initio for no valid
conversion of the respondent husband by voluntarily and with faith in
Hinduism and to the acceptance of the Hindu neighbourhood and 
otherwise from the force proved against her to maintain the claim
within one year after its cessation as one of the grounds to annul
besides the fraud regarding his qualifications and employment which
are part of deliberate false representations regarding his status,
qualifications, properties etc., and from within one year of said fraud
detected, the petition is maintained by her in this regard and also in
relation to the material facts and circumstances regarding him
discussed supra that entitles her to seek annulment of marriage. Thus,
even from said re-appreciation of the pleadings and evidence on
record on the factual matrix with reference to the law, for this Court
while sitting in appeal, there is nothing to interfere but for dismissal of
the appeal. Accordingly, the point No.1 and 2 are answered.
In re. to Point No.3: 42. In the result, the appeal is dismissed. There shall be no
order as to costs. As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions if any pending
shall stand closed. ____________________________ 
JUSTICE R. SUBHASH REDDY 
___________________________________ 
Dr. JUSTICE B.SIVA SANKARA RAO 
29.09.2015.