This is a private complaint filed by the complainant

u/Sec 200 of Cr.P.C . against the accused for the offence

punishable u/Sec 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act 1881

(hereinafter referred as 'Act'). 2. The case of the complainant in brief is as
under: 3. It is further case of the complainant that, when

he presented the said cheque through his banker and the

said cheque was dishonoured & returned with an

endorsement stating "Funds Insufficient" on 09.05.2019. 4. It is further case of the complainant that, the

complainant got issued legal notice on 30.05.2019 to the

accused calling upon him to repay the cheque amount

within 15 days from the date of receipt of notice. The said

notice was returned with a postal shara

"REFUSED/RETURNED TO SENDER," however

intimation delivered on 01.06.2019. Inspite of issuance of

legal notice, accused failed to make payment towards not SCCH-9 4 CC.No.4926/2019 paid the amount within the stipulated period and he

failed to pay the cheque amount. Hence, complainant has

filed this private complaint against the accused for the

alleged offence punishable U/ sec.138 of NI Act. 5. After filing the complaint, cognizance was taken

for the offence punishable u/Sec 138 of N.I.Act and the

complaint was registered as private complaint. The sworn

statement of the complainant was recorded and registered

the case as Criminal Case and the process summons was

issued against the accused. 6. In response to the summons, the accused has

appeared before the court through his counsel and

enlarged on bail. The accused is on bail during the trial.

As per the directions of Hon'ble Apex Court in a case

between INDIAN BANK ASSOCIATION V/s UNION OF

INDIA in the instant case on the same day of appearance

of the accused, the substance of accusation was framed SCCH-9 5 CC.No.4926/2019 and read over and explained to the accused in the

language known to him. The accused pleaded not guilty,

but claims to be tried. On the same day statement

U/ Sec.313 of Cr.P.C was recorded. On the same day

Sworn statement affidavit of the Complainant was treated

as chief examination affidavit and complainant himself

examined as PW1. The documents which were marked at

the time of sworn statement i.e., Ex.P1 to P5(a) were also

considered as documentary evidence to the chief

examination. The accused himself examined as DW.1 and

closed his side evidence. 7. Heard the arguments of both sides. 8. Now the points that arise for my consideration

are as under: 9. My answer to the above points for my

consideration are as under: 10. POINT NO.1: It is the specific case of the

complainant that, during the last week of December 2018

the accused had obtained hand loan of Rs.2,40,000/-

from the complainant to meet his family legal necessities

and also for improvement of his hotel business, with an

assurance to repay the same within the period of 3 SCCH-9 7 CC.No.4926/2019 months. Towards discharge of his legal liability, the

accused had issued a cheque bearing No.361859, dated

04.04.2019 for Rs.2,40,000/- drawn on Bank of India,

V.V.Puram Branch, Bengaluru - 560004 in favour of the

complainant. On presentation, the said cheque was

dishonoured and returned with an endorsement "Funds

Insufficient" on 09.05.2019. Inspite of issuance of notice,

the accused failed to make payment. Hence, complainant

filed the private complaint for the offence punishable

U/ Sec.138 of NI Act. 11. I have perused all the materials available on

record with cautiously. As stated above, in order to prove

the guilt of the accused, the complainant himself

examined as PW1 and got marked Ex.P1 to P5(a). The

PW1/complainant has filed affidavit in lieu of chief

examination and reiterated all the facts mentioned in his

complaint. The Ex.P.1 is the Cheque, Ex.P.1(a) is the SCCH-9 8 CC.No.4926/2019 signature of accused, Ex.P.2 is the Bank Endorsement,

Ex.P.3 is the office copy of legal notice, Ex.P.4 is the

Postal receipt and Ex.P.5 is the returned Postal cover and

ExP.5(a) is the notice inside Ex.P.5. 12. The learned counsel for complainant has

argued the case and submitted that accused has

committed an offence punishable u/ Sec.138 of N.I Act by

issuing bounced cheque, thus accused is liable to be

convict for the offence punishable U/ sec.138 of N.I Act by

imposing the cheque amount. 13. Per contra, the learned counsel for accused has

vehemently argued and submitted that accused has not at

all committed any offence as alleged by the complainant.

Thus he, requested for acquittal of the accused. In

support of his defence arguments, he relied upon the

evidence of the accused. The accused himself examined as

DW1. 14. Before discussion of case of the complainant, it

is better to have important ingredients as contemplated

under the Act, which constitute the offence punishable u/

Sec 138 of the said Act which reads as under:- 15. It is significant to note that once the

complainant has complied the provisions as contemplated

U/ Sec.138 of NI Act before filing the case, then the

presumption would be raised in favour of complainant as SCCH-9 10 CC.No.4926/2019 per Sec.139 of NI Act that the cheque in question was

issued for discharging the debt or liability in whole or part

payment. The debt means legally recoverable debt. Before

raising such presumption in favour of complainant, it is

to be relevant to discuss whether complainant has

complied with all the ingredients before filing the

complaint. On perusal of document Ex.P1 to 5(a), which

disclose that the complainant has presented the cheque

within limitation and issued the legal notice and filed the

private complaint. These documents also goes to show

that the complainant has complied all the ingredients as

contemplated U/ Sec.138 of NI Act before filing the

complaint. When complainant complied the provisions to

constitute offence punishable U/ Sec.138 of NI Act, then

comes into picture in favour of complainant to raise the

presumption that the accused has issued cheque in order

to discharge his debt or liability. It is settled principles of SCCH-9 11 CC.No.4926/2019 law that the aforesaid presumption is a rebuttable

presumption and accused can rebut said presumption by

raising probable defence or by relying materials available

on record. 16. Perused the record, it is not in dispute that the

accused and complainant are well known to each other. It

is also not in dispute that, the accused was running a

hotel business and complainant was running a printing

press. They were running a business in neighbour shops.

It is not in dispute that the disputed cheque and

signature belongs to the accused. It is also not in dispute

regarding issuance of cheque in favour of complainant. 17. It is the case of the complainant that during

last week of the December 2018, accused approached the

complainant of ₹2,40,000/- to meet his family's legal

needs and also for his hotel business. Further, accused

agreed to repay the same within a period of 3 months. SCCH-9 12 CC.No.4926/2019 After completion of stipulated period of 3 months, accused

failed to pay the said loan amount, therefore, complainant

demanded to repay the said loan amount. At that time

accused has issued the disputed cheque to discharge his

liability. But when the complainant presented the said

cheque, the same has been dishonored with endorsement

as "Insufficient funds". In order to prove his contention,

the complainant filed affidavit in lieu of examination-in-

chief, wherein he reiterated all averments of the

complainant and examined as PW1 and he produced

documents such as cheque, bank endorsement, legal

notice, postal receipts and unclaimed poster cover, which

are marked as Ex.P1 to P5 and Ex.P5(a). Thereafter PW1

subjected to cross examination. The learned counsel for

the accused cross examined PW1, but he has not elicited

from the mouth of the complainant to disbelieve his

version. PW1 clearly deposed that accused has borrowed SCCH-9 13 CC.No.4926/2019 a loan of ₹ 2,40,000 for his family's necessities and to

improve his hotel business and the accused agreed to

repay the said amount within 3 months. But accused has

not returned the said loan amount and issued the

disputed cheque for legally recovered debt. 18. On the other hand, in order to rebut the

presumption arise in favour of the complainant, accused

himself examined as DW-1 wherein he has taken the

defence that complainant told him that he will help to get

loan from the bank, for that purpose only, complainant

was obtained the Aadhar card and two blank cheque from

him. Subsequently, as per opinion of his wife, accused

decided as will not to get loan from the bank, therefore it

is brought to the notice of the complainant, even though

complainant has not returned the cheques and Aadhaar

card, but misused the disputed cheque. In support of his

defence, except his testimony, accused has not produced SCCH-9 14 CC.No.4926/2019 any other oral and documentary evidence. Hence, in the

absence of documentary evidence, the defence of the

accused is not believable. If the defence of the accused is

really true, he had to take legal action against the

complainant to get back the disputed cheque. But,

accused has not made any effort to get back the disputed

cheque. Therefore, mere taking defence during the

defence evidence is not sufficient to prove the defence of

the accused. 19. The learned counsel for the accused argued and

same defence taken during the cross examination of

PW.1 that, notice has not been served upon the accused.

In this regard, draw the attention on cross examination

of Pw.1. In this regard perused the same, wherein the

learned counsel for the accused suggested that, " ಆರೋಪಿಯು

ನಂ.64, 17 ನೇ ಮುಖ್ಯರಸ್ತೆ , 9 ನೇ ಕ್ರಾ ಸ್, ಮುನೇಶ್ವರ ಬ್ಲಾ ಕ್, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು- ನಿವಾಸದಲ್ಲಿ

ಹೋಟೆಲ್ ನಡೆಸುತ್ತಾ ರೆ. ನೋಟೀಸು ಆರೋಪಿಗೆ ಜಾರಿಯಾಗಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ ಎಂದು ಸಾಕ್ಷಿಯು SCCH-9 15 CC.No.4926/2019 ನಾವು ನೋಟೀಸು ನೀಡಿರುತ್ತ ೇವೆ, ಆದರೆ ಅದನ್ನು ಆರೋಪಿ ಪಡೆದುಕೊಂಡಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ನನಗೆ

ತಿಳಿದಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ. ನಾನು ಮತ್ತು ಅಂಚೆ ಕಚೇರಿಯವರು ಶಾಮೀಲಾಗಿ ಅಂಚೆ ಲಕೋಟೆಯ

ಮೇಲೆ Refused ಎಂದು ನಮೂದಿಸಿರುತ್ತ ೇವೆ ಎಂದು ಸರಿಯಲ್ಲ. " 20. As above though the learned counsel for the

accused suggested that the notice has not been served

upon the accused, Pw.1 clearly deposed that he has

issued the notice to the accused through RPAD and he

clearly denied the suggestion of the counsel that, he and

post Master together colluded and mentioned on the

postal cover as "refused." When the Pw.1 denied the

suggestion fo the accused it is the burden upon the

complainant to prove the same. Except the suggestion

there is no evidence on record to believe the defence of the

accused. Perused the Ex.P5- Postal cover which returned

with shara as "Not claimed, Returned to sender." When

the complainant send the notice through RPAD to the

correct address of the accused, it is deemed to be served. SCCH-9 16 CC.No.4926/2019 Therefore, at this juncture this court has relied upon the

decision reported in (2008) 8 SCC 529 in between Indo

Automobiles Vs. Jai Durga Enterprises and others ,

wherein it is held that - Negotiable Instruments Act ,1881 - S.138 - Notice - Service - Requirement of - Notice sent

to respondents through registered post and under a

certificate of posting to their correct address - High Court

quashing the proceedings on ground that because of the

endorsement of postal peon, the service could not be said

to have been effected - Held, High Court was not justified

in so holding - Further held, it is well settled that once

notice has been sent by registered post with

acknowledgment due to a correct address, it must be

presumed that the service has been made effective -

Impugned order set aside and proceedings under Sec.138 restored - Criminal Procedure Code , 1973, S.482. 21. The above decisions is aptly applicable to the SCCH-9 17 CC.No.4926/2019 present facts and circumstances of the case. Though the

accused has taken the defence that legal notice has not

been served upon him but, it is not the defence of the

accused that the address mentioned in the notice, as well

as the cause title of the complaint not belongs to him.

Therefore, as per above decision when the complainant

issued the legal notice to the correct address of the

accused by registered post with acknowledgment due, it is

presumed that the service of the notice has been made

effectively. Therefore, the defence of the accused is not

believable that notice has not served upon him. 22. The complainant has contended that accused

has borrowed the loan of Rs.2,40,000 and issued the

disputed cheque for legally recoverable debt. Ex.P.1 is the

disputed cheque it shows that complainant is the holder

of the disputed cheque, it presumed that accused has

issued the disputed cheque for legally recoverable debt. In SCCH-9 18 CC.No.4926/2019 the present case, accused clearly admitted that disputed

cheque belongs to him, but during the cross examination

he denied his signature on the cheque. In support of his

version he has not produced any document. Further, the

learned counsel for the accused lengthy cross examined

the PW.1, he has not put any question about signature on

the disputed cheque. However, accused himself examined

as DW.1, wherein he has not denied the signature on the

disputed cheque. Therefore, in the absence of cogent, oral

and documentary evidence mere denial during his cross

examination that Ex.P1(a) is not belongs to him, is not

sufficient to believe the version of Dw.1. Further, in the

present case accused has taken several defences to rebut

the presumptions raised in favour of the complainant but,

he has failed to rebut the presumption through cogent,

oral and documentary evidence. Mere plausible defence is

not sufficient to rebut the presumption. The complainant SCCH-9 19 CC.No.4926/2019 has clearly established his case through oral and

documentary evidence that the accused has borrowed the

hand loan of Rs.2,40,000/- and issued the disputed

cheque. Therefore, I am of the opinion that complainant

has proved beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused

has committed an offence punishable U/ Sec.138 of NI Act

by issuing disputed cheque. Hence I answered Point No.1

in the Affirmative. 23. POINT NO.2: As per above discussions, I

proceed to pass the following: