Over the last year, hundreds of unauthorised digital lending apps have popped up on Google’s Play Store targeting vulnerable Indian borrowers, charging them exorbitant interest rates, and resorting to extortion and blackmail tactics to collect payments. In more than a few cases, these practices have resulted in borrowers committing suicide.

Generally, third-party loan marketplaces and apps which work with regulated banks and non-bank lenders have to follow strict guidelines on interest rates and collection practices, but many of the predatory lending apps that have emerged in the last year either work with small non-bank lenders, which are licensed by the RBI, or they work outside any rules or regulatory framework.

Against this backdrop, the Reserve Bank of India constituted a Working Group (WG) in January to study all aspects of digital lending so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place.

Here is a summary of the recommendations and suggestions made by the working group in its extensive report . The recommendations are concrete actions points, whereas the suggestions would require wider consultation with stakeholders and further examination by the regulators and government agencies, the report said.

Gaurav Chopra, Founder and CEO, IndiaLends and Founding member of Digital Lending Association of India (DLAI):

“We believe that recommendations such as on auditable logs for every action that a user performs on the app, will be a game changer for India’s digital lending industry. It will demolish many existing loan sharks and curb unfair practises. Moreover, the recommendation for digital lenders to provide a key fact statement in a standardised format including the Annual Percentage Rate will give a better perspective to borrowers about the high percentage rate they are willing to bear.”

Ankit Rata, Co-founder and CEO, Signzy:

“Currently, the industry is seeing many unregulated digital lenders operating in the space, who do not even have basic KYC checks in place. We believe that if the recommendations are passed, it will not only help protect consumers but also restrict breaches of data privacy while curbing fraudulent transactions.”

Lalit Mehta, Co-founder and CEO, Decimal Technologies:

“Digital lending innovation is crucial for the country as it has the potential to address the credit gap, especially among MSMEs and the population living in underbanked areas. Integrating protection of consumers and transparency into the digital lending landscape will significantly increase the number of people with access to formal banking and sources of credit, eliminating the informal players. Another important point to note is the report’s focus on encouraging innovations – this can lead to growth for products that address the specific needs of the underserved that do not always have the documentation required by traditional financial institutions for a loan application.”

Also read:

Have something to add? Post your comment and gift someone a MediaNama subscription .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event