SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Friend tried to sell us aloe products and membership into her club which is basically a mlm.
DATE: 2024-02-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ausdls/friend_tried_to_sell_us_aloe_products_and/

--- POST TEXT ---

I was at hospital to collect my mother's reports. My friend asked if she could meet me, I told her I can meet only for few minutes on my way back home but it took me nearly 2 hours at the hospital to collect the reports. My friend was calling me continuously asking if I'm done. She decided to come to the hospital which is around 30km away from her place. I even asked her if she's alright but she told how she misses me and really concerned because I have been worried about my mothers health. I got all emotional that I have such a sweet friend lol. 

Now once she came, I was still sitting in the hospital area waiting for the doctor as I had few doubts. She started shitting on government hospitals. I laughed it and said 'beggars can't be choosers' and that it's AIIMS and my mother's receiving decent treatment for the cost we are paying. She told how I should try to think beyond this typical middle class mentality. I kind of felt bad and told I would do that but right now I'm super busy because of my mom. 

I had to get back home as the hospital is quite far from my home too. She offered to drive me back because she wanted to talk more. We sat in her car when she told she recently got because of some startup she has joined. I joked which startup would gift her a car! This is when her scam started, she told she is associated with some Delhi based club. The club has transformed her mindset and she is earning and it's a permanent WFH. She said she wanted to let me know because she knows I had to be with my mom most of the time. 

She was already wearing those scammy kind of clothes, blazer and all. I still gave her benefit of doubt and asked what is this club all about? She said I should join it because I was in Toastmasters for a month but couldn't be part of it for very long and was very sad about it during college days. Now she compared her startup to a toastmasters club. Even told I don't have to pay here but can improve my oratory skills. 

I said I would look into it but not for next two years as I want to study further. She told how people are unemployed even after getting masters from IITs and why would I want to waste money and efforts. I swear, this girl's been the sweetest for the 9 years that I have known her but the brainwashed version of her was shitting on employed people. 

Now when we reached my home, I had already requested her to talk in a low voice because of my mother's health as advised by the doctor. I was really scared this girl would talk again like those scam yt mlm motivators again. 

She told us that she has been to Thailand recently as her startup/club/business provides her long sabbaticals because she is their hardworking member. She showed her pictures and all. Asked me to attend her seminar by paying 199 only. 

By this time, I already knew it is a mlm because she couldn't just stop talking about her boss who is buying a very luxurious car soon at the age of 21.I asked several times as to what exactly she does but she won't just tell, she kept talking about how she feels blessed that she came across such an opportunity. Told her designation right now is that of a manager and she employes people. 

During the whole convo, she was continuously calling people on phone eminding them they have to attend meetings. After another hour of motivational talks she told I can be an assistant supervisor and earn decent amount without stepping out of my home. I really wanted to throw her out at this point but she has been a very good friend for years so stopped myself. 

Told I have to complete 2cc which meant I need to pay her 30k and buy some products. She was ready to book a slot in advance for me because the slots were limited. I joked if she wanted to skin me alive, in no way I was going to pay her so much. She took out products which were some aloe vera juices and supplements. Claimed that they even cured cancer according to some research. I was furious by now. I asked her to show research papers. She said I need to attend the webinar, her boss would tell her more about it. 

Asked my mother to take a sip of the aloe juice. According to her it was a perfect opportunity for me to earn at the same time take these supplements because we won't get them anywhere except from her lol. Today she messages me, I should book the 2cc (i.e buy products worth 30k) instead of saving for my studies because within four months I would have enough money to take my mother to the best hospital, build a bungalow and buy a luxurious car lol. Asked to stop treatment for three days and ask my mother to take her supplements instead and check how she feels. I blocked her after that. 

This is sad at the same time very alarming how these people are getting brainwashed to such a level that they wouldn't leave anyone. She knows I'm struggling financially so thought it was perfect opportunity to scam me. Such brainwashed people have no shame, she had an audacity to ask us to stop my mother's medicine and try her supplements and juice. 

I hope karma gets back to these people involved in those scammy clubs. I talked to my other friends and got to know how she has only targeted those people whom are struggling at work, home 
financially. Also the car was her cousin's, her Thailand trip was actually a family vacation and the constant pictures she's been putting on her whatsApp status while working on a iMac is basically her cousin's who recently built a new home lol. 

Sorry for such a long write up and there are lot of errors in my English too.