From Vadodara Gujarat I get a call from Blue mountain resort and hospitality (BMRH). They invite me and my husband to attend a program and have dinner at Hotel Revival Lords Inn Vadodara on 13th Dec 2022. I accepted the invitation. When We go there, one representative Mr. Ajay and Mr. Shahid talk to us about their membership plans. He shows us a lot of benefits. He also showed us their certificate of excellence and a video where CM Bhupendrabhai Patel is giving an award to BMRH. First, he explained a membership plan of around 1, 76, 000/-rs. So I refused it as I am a salaried person and can't bear such a huge amount. So he offered another membership plan of around 75, 000/-rs for domestic vacations with 21 days in 3 Years. They asked us to pay 50% of this amount i.e. 37, 500/-rs. with credit card EMI. They also shown us that there will be 2 night 3 days domestic package will be complementary with this plan. We have agreed with this plan and signed the agreement and made the payment of 37, 500 rs with EMI with Citi Bank Credit Card. As we do not have our KYC documents, we told them that will submit it tomorrow. After reaching home and seeing the online reviews, complaints of the BMRH company on consumer forum, we realize that it is fraud company looting people by showing eye catching schemes. Hence we informed him that we do not want to submit our KYC due to some personal reasons in 3 days and do not want to take their membership and requested him to refund our money . As we have not completed yet KYC verification and registration process, we have not any verification email or membership Id from BMRH team. Although they are saying that, we are their member and they can not refund our money as we have signed agreement and there is no cancellation policy. Our concern is, as we have not yet member of their scheme, we do not want to take part in their scheme and requested him to just stop their further process and refund our amount. Also we have not used any of their services and not a member of their scheme so far, I requested them via email / call for cancellation and refunding the amount. Still they are denying. Further herewith sending you below documents 1.) Cancellation request email to Blue Mountain 2.) Signed form of Blue Mountain membership Please do needful to get my money back and stop them to do this type of fraud with others as well. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (2)