SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Why indian TV content is so shit? And now OTT is becoming another shit dumping ground.
DATE: 2021-12-23
SCORE: 299
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/rmy6mw/why_indian_tv_content_is_so_shit_and_now_ott_is/

--- POST TEXT ---

Since last 2 decades Indian TV industry is plagued by the same saas bahu drama. And literally all the channels are producing same shit one after another(I will write another post about the content). Since OTT and youtube came in to picture a big audience that was already ignored shifted to YouTube, Netflix or prime. First of all they these tv channels started producing similar kind of content but for the OTT only, why?

They already had multiple channels, they could have also released those shows on TV as well. I don't think Scam, Gulak or panchayat that found audience online couldn't be released on TV due to censorship, all of them were clean family show. In comparison what we have on tv is so shit, literally all shows are saas bahu sagas. 

And now even OTT is getting into same trope, producing one espionage or thriller after another, content is only slightly different. 

Just check out what zee is producing on TV and on ott. Both of them are largely same except you will find some extra abusive language or some sex scene in ott content.

Netflix is dumping ground of Karan Johar shit now and they are now trying to tap the same tv audience. Where people like us will go? Just look at what hotstar has produced, although it is slightly different then there tv shit, but they are largely remake of the shows that we have already seen. 

We can't even get handful of decent show in a year. Tv was already shit and now OTT is following the same path.

Edit:

People are just totally not understanding the argument here, india is such a big country with so huge population that there are multiple film industry thriving and becoming bigger each day. There is certainly a scope of producing one good show for tv but the TV industry just doesn't even bother.