% 18.02.2026 1. The petitioner is seeking for the following reliefs: "a. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order, or
 direction directing Respondent No. 1, 4, 5 and 6 to take immediate steps
 to block/takedown the fraudulent website www.jagrawal.com and
 investigate the online activities associated with "Glow Credit";
 b. Issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order, or
 direction directing Respondent No. 1, 4 and 5 to take immediate steps to
 block/takedown mobile application which is available at the Apple App
 Store and Google Play Store under the provisions of the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 ; c. Direct Respondents No. 1, 2 and 3 to initiate appropriate regulatory
 action against digital platforms and app-based lending operators
 engaging in data theft, forgery, and impersonation and issue official
 advisories and public warnings to caution consumers against fraudulent
 digital lending apps falsely claiming RBI registration and further
 implement a robust verification and certification mechanism for all app-
 based lending platforms hosted on digital distribution stores such as the
 Apple App Store and Google Play Store, to ensure that only duly licensed
 and compliant Non- Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) are
 permitted to operate such apps, thereby safeguarding the interests of

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/03/2026 at 20:35:52
 legitimate businesses and the public at large
 d. Direct Respondent No. 3 to frame policies and coordinate with other
 ministries and digital platforms to curb misuse of NBFC identities;
 e. Direct Respondent No. 2 to frame rules and regulations to safeguard
 the interest of the Petitioner and the public at large from such data theft,
 forgery, and impersonation; f. Direct Respondent No. 1, 2 and 3 to cancel any possible registration/
 license granted to "Glow Credit" by them and restrain the owners/
 developers of the mobile application "Glow Credit" from using the
 Petitioner's license, name in any manner whatsoever with immediate
 effect; g. Direct Respondent No. 5 to suspend and take down the website
 www.jagrawal.com ; h. Direct Respondent No. 7 to take appropriate action as per the
 applicable provisions of law; i. Pass such other and further orders as may be deemed just and proper
 in the facts and circumstances of the case." 2. The prayer (a) relates to directions to respondent No. 1, 4, 5 and 6 to
 take immediate steps to block/takedown the fraudulent website, namely
 www.jagrawal.com and investigate the online activities associated with
 "Glow Credit". 3. The submission of the petitioner that the concerned website is
 fraudulent itself will require adjudication on disputed questions of fact and
 appreciation of evidence. 4. The petitioner, therefore, for the purpose of establishing such
 allegations, would have to approach the competent court/forum in
 accordance with law. This Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article
 226 of the Constitution of India, would not enter into disputed questions of
 fact nor decide or adjudicate upon the veracity or genuineness of the website
 in question in the absence of a proper evidentiary foundation. 5. With respect to prayer (b), the petitioner would have to take recourse
 under the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary
 Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 and the mechanism

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/03/2026 at 20:35:52
 provided therein for grievance redressal before the designated Grievance
 Officer or any other appropriate authority. In the event the petitioner
 approaches the concerned officer, let his grievance be considered and
 decided in accordance with the extant rules. 6. Similarly, insofar as the grievance relates to any alleged inaction or
 omission on the part of the Reserve Bank of India in regulating digital
 lending platforms or misuse of Non-Banking Financial Corporation identity,
 it would be for the concerned statutory authority to examine the
 representation of the petitioner and pass appropriate orders in accordance
 with law. 7. With the aforesaid observations, the present petition stands disposed
 of. All rights and contentions of the parties are left open. PURUSHAINDRA KUMAR KAURAV, J
 FEBRUARY 18, 2026/JYH/mj

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 20/03/2026 at 20:35:52