(The case has been heard through video conference)
 This revision has been filed against the order passed by the Chief

 Metropolitan Magistrate in Crl.MP.No.20675 of 2021 dated 11.10.2021

 dismissing the petition filed under Section 156(3) Cr.PC. 2. The brief facts of the case is as follows :- 3. Mr.Shanmugavelayutham, Senior Counsel appearing for the

 petitioner would submit that though the complaint may look like dispute

 between students, it is the case were the petitioner was continuously

 stacked and he was physically and mentally harassed and threatened

 through cyber mode also. The accused had intimidated the petitioner by

 sending messages from various email IDs. Thereby, the petitioner fearing

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.RC.No.1021 of 2021 danger to his life had given complaint to the Commissioner of Police.

 Though the complaint was referred to the respondent for investigation.

 The respondent has not registered the case for the reasons best known,

 thereby the petitioner had approached the learned Magistrate by filing

 complaint under Section 156(3) Cr.PC. 4. Per contra, the learned Government Advocate (Crl.side) would

 submit that the petitioner had given a complaint to the Commissioner of

 Police during the year 2015, stating that he was threatened and harassed by

 his classmate/friends, while he was studying Engineering course during the

 period August 2010 to May 2014. In the complaint, the petitioner had

 given the email IDs of suspected profiles and other than that, the

 complainant did not given any specific details about the alleged physical

 and mental harassment made on him. The petitioner was called for enquiry

 and the respondent attempted to open the alleged profile given by the

 petitioner and they were unable to open the profiles. The petitioners has

 also not given any details with regard to the cyber stalking and thereby the

 respondent is unable to proceed further. The petitioner had filed petition

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.RC.No.1021 of 2021 under Section 156(3) Cr.PC, the trial Court finding that the case of

 cognizable nature is not made out had dismissed the petition. 5. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and perused the

 materials available on records. 6. It is the case of the petitioner that while he was undergoing

 Engineering course in Panimalar Engineering College, during the period

 August 2010 to May 2014, he had befriended a girl and later the

 relationship got strained and thereafter she alongwith her friends who are

 also students in the same college had physically and mentally harassed the

 petitioner. The complaint has been given during the year 2015. The

 respondent had taken up the complaint and since, the petitioner was unable

 to furnish details they have not proceeded further. The petitioner had later

 filed the complaint before the learned Magistrate, the learned Magistrate

 finding that the complaint was bereft of details and did not contain any

 particulars with regard to the incidents alleged had dismissed the petition.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.RC.No.1021 of 2021 7. This Court does not find any infirmity or illegality in the order

 passed by the trial Court. The revision petition lacks merits and stands

 dismissed. However, in the event of the petitioner able to gather any

 further details and information, he is at liberty to give a fresh complaint

 with particulars and details. 21.01.2022

 tsh
 To 1. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Egmore, Chennai. 2. The The Inspector of Police,
 Central Crime Branch (Cyber crime)
 Office of the Commissioner of Police,
 EVK Sampath Salai,
 Vepery, Chennai - 7. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Crl.RC.No.1021 of 2021 A.D.JAGADISH CHANDIRA, J

 tsh Crl.RC.No.1021 of 2021 21.01.2022. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis