The government has amended business allocation rules to specify which Ministry will regulate matters about telecom network security, cybersecurity, and cybercrime, in an extraordinary gazette notification released on September 27. As per this notification, telecom network security matters will fall within the scope of the Ministry of Communications.

This comes soon after the Ministry of Communications released the draft rules for telecom cybersecurity under the Telecommunication Act, 2023. As per these rules, the government or any authorised agency can ask telecom companies to submit traffic data or any other data to ensure telecom cybersecurity. Traffic data includes any data generated, transmitted, received or stored in telecommunication networks. According to PK Singh, Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), it can also include the traffic data of over-the-top (OTT) communication services like WhatsApp and Telegram .

The business allocation rules further state that cybersecurity, as specified under the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act), falls within the scope of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). Further, the overall coordination and strategic direction for cybersecurity fall within the scope of the National Security Council Secretariat.

Interestingly, in December last year , when many expressed concern that the Telecom Act sought to regulate OTT communication services, the then Minister of Communications and IT (and current Minister of IT) told the Economic Times that OTTs are under the scope of the IT Act instead. However, telecom companies have continued to demand OTT regulation within the scope of the Telecom Act.

Matters related to cybercrime will fall under the Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) purview. The MHA and the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) have been coordinating to curb scammers in the recent past. In May this year, the two ministries found that eight business entities had misused their SMS headers to send scam messages with the intent of committing cybercrime . As a result, they blacklisted the entities along with 73 SMS Headers and 1,522 SMS content templates they owned. Besides this, the MHA’s Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) has also recently launched a software called Pratibimb to help law enforcement agencies track active mobile numbers used in cybercrime.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event