SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need Aadhar card without submitting proofs? Just spend 500 rupees and Aadhaar will be yours.[NP]
DATE: 2017-08-12
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6t8kky/need_aadhar_card_without_submitting_proofs_just/

--- POST TEXT ---

Meri Aadhar, Meri pehchaan bechi jaati hai 500rs me... 

 

Divya Bhaskar’s sting- Aadhar number generated without any proof. 

 

Conversation between reporter and aadhar agent

R- We need to make Aadhar, how much will you charge?

A- 200/- only.

R- But there's one problem we don’t have any required documents, birth certificate is also missing so will you be able to make it?

A- I will make it easily, daily hundreds of people come here for this but then you have to pay 500 rupees.

R- Yes I will pay but what if that Aadhar card does not work and people reject it?

A- Than I will return money. I am giving you guarantee this card will work anywhere in the world.  And we follow all government methods we will take retina and finger prints it will be original card don't worry.  Agent also added that till now they have made 10,000 aadhar cards.

Reality check-

On 28 June, 2017 we went to that photocopy shop named Siddhi Vinayak Xerox, our finger print, retina print were taken by operator and all the details were filled directly on Aadhar software the way we were telling him without any check or verification. Aadhar receipt was given to us as soon as we paid him 500 rs. Sitting in ahmedabad agent fearlessly uploaded the details without any documents and it got registered in central government records. (Wow) Hello UIDAI are you listening?

There is major loophole in system. Aadhars software is so vulnerable that anybody can use it?  I found one agency but I am damn sure that there are many more like this in every state. And seeing the crowd in his office I can say these people are in demand. 

 
On 10 July, 2017 we received message on mobile from UIDAI that our Aadhar number is generated and we can download e Aadhaar for use.

Within 13 days the aadhar number was generated and uploaded on UIDAI website www.uidai.gov.in (slow claps)  

 
BJP government is relentlessly forcing Aadhar card on everything possible, even the death certificate is not spared. The importance of Aadhar card is increasing day by day and so it's scams. Aadhaar is free identity card and for enrollment of one has to submit few documents like birth certificate, driving license, passport, ration card, voter ID etc. 

But in Modi’s Ahmedabad, Aadhaar cards are in making without any mandatory proofs photocopy shop situated behind the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (the department who is responsible for aadhaar enrollment in city) enrolled us just like that.

He enrolled us that’s still believable but it got approval from central government- UIDAI that’s shocking it was cake walk for us to generate this number.

 
Like this any Bangladeshi, Pakistani, Nepali can easily generate their Aadhar number, I hope BJP will not make aadhar card as citizenship proof. 

 Hence, debate goes on authenticity of Aadhar and its future. Here we have another proof of it going downhill. 

 
Special quote of our internet sweet heart Aunty Bhawri when I told her about Aadhar card fiasco she said “Ye bik gayi hai Gormint ab iss gormint me kuch nahi bacha, ye saale saare humko milke pagal bana rahe hai."  :D 

 Siddhi Vyas,
Divya Bhaskar
11 August 2017