Data related to Google’s digital services cannot be accessed by third parties under contractual conditions, or as reported, aggregated information, or under a request to port data to another service, Google said in its submission to European Union’s public consultation on its Digital Services Act package . The aim of this consultation is to assess if existing European laws, such as the e-Commerce Directive, need to be amended to account for the challenges posed by the evolving global digital landscape about competition, combating online piracy and counterfeit goods, online content moderation, etc. The public consultation will end on September 8.

However, in its blog post announcing the submission, Google said that allowing users to export their data helps users, and “providing access to aggregated datasets could benefit R&D in a range of industries while safeguarding user data privacy”. It submitted its support for data mobility and access but stressed that product quality or innovation incentives must not be “sacrificed”.

Collaboration between digital platforms, European Commission, and member nations would be required to identify specific use cases where data access or interoperability would promote innovation, Google submitted. It said that sharing certain kinds of data, such as click data (data about how users point and click on different elements on a screen), would in fact give rivals data over how Google responds to search queries, thereby allowing them to clone Google’s search results.

In April 2020, at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and announcement of nation-wide lockdowns across the world, Google had released aggregated, anonymised data from Google Maps to track how people’s movement habits have changed since lockdowns were imposed. The aim was to help public health officials make better informed decisions about things such as business hours and deliveries of essential services, and how to time public transport so that social distancing can still be carried out.

In terms of compliance, Google said that different processes and obligations for notifying, detecting and removing illegal content, goods and services is “unduly burdensome”. Similarly, requirements to have a legal representative or an establishment in more than one EU country, and different procedures and points of contact for complying with local laws was “very burdensome” as well.

Google submitted that because of the pandemic, its Q2FY2020 revenues fell by 2% YoY, and that a Single Market (common EU market with same rules throughout the region) would help with its economic recovery.

EU’s e-Commerce Directive imposed limited liability on online intermediaries that takes into account the degree of knowledge and control that intermediaries have over content on their services. Google submitted that such a graduated regime should continue. This includes: issuing notice and then taking down illegal content, prohibiting general monitoring requirements, incentivising additional action, and retaining the country of origin principle.

The company also submitted that this liability should take into account the functions of different online intermediaries so that the same liability that is imposed on a social media platform is not imposed on an app store or search engine.

The e-Commerce Directive currently distinguishes between three types of services offered by online intermediaries: ‘mere conduits’, ‘caching services’, and ‘hosting services’. Google wants these to be expanded to explicitly include other services, and expand the underlying conditions that grant such services safe harbour.

Google wants all online platforms to be legally required to:

Google wants only platforms at particular risk of exposure to illegal activities by their users to be legally required to:

Google doesn’t want any online platform to be legally required to:

Google highlighted that it used a “people + machine” framework to act against illegal offering of goods and services online and content shared by users. For instance, illegal content that is reported by users (using this tool) is individually reviewed by Google since “deciding whether content is illegal under local laws can often be challenging, and highly context-dependent”. To stave off copyright infringement and piracy, Google depends on automated tools such as YouTube Content ID and the platform’s Search demotion signal.

Mechanisms that Google does not have Google does not provide the following:

For online content moderation, the company now has over 10,000 people across Google. The company says that that these reviewers are provided “robust wellbeing [sic] programs and psychological support”.  The company did not specify the exact cost of the measures it has implemented to remove different types of illegal content, goods and services; it just wrote that they “have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in these efforts” at least twice in its submission.

Problems with automated content moderation, as per Google

Google has submitted that to fight disinformation, platforms must:

Of the other measures that the Commission had proposed, Google submitted that auditing systems overs platforms’ actions and risk assessments, and regulatory oversight and auditing of such assessments was not that necessary.

Google selected “neither agree nor disagree” for all statements that the questionnaire proposed on digital platforms as gatekeepers of power. These included statements about whether or not consumers had enough choices in online platforms, if they could easily switch between similar online platforms/services, if they could easily port their data to alternate services, if there was interoperability, if there was information asymmetry between platforms and consumers in terms of knowledge about the other, if it was easy for an SME to enter the market, if certain large online platforms created barriers to entry or leveraged assets from one activity to expand into others.

It similarly stuck to a comfortable three stars (on a scale of five) for all characteristics that may determine whether an online company acts as a gatekeeper. It also did not say if the integration of any of these activities — such as search engine, operating systems for smart devices, cloud services, payment services, online advertising, etc., — within one company strengthened a large online platform’s role as a gatekeeper, aka, ‘conglomerate effect’. After CEO Sundar Pichai’s deposition before the US subcommittee on antitrust in July 2020, this lack of answers is rather telling.

It also entered an ambiguous ‘I don’t know’ to questions about whether large online platform companies need dedicated regulatory rules, and if such rules would be effective in curbing gatekeeping (read: anti-competitive) practices of such platforms. It also didn’t say if such rules should include obligations and if a specific regulatory authority is required to enforce those. While the company didn’t know if dedicated rules should enable regulatory intervention against large platforms with case-specific remedies, it said that a separate regulatory authority was not required to enforce such rules since the European Commission’s Directorate General for Competition could address them already.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event