SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Been in a complicated and abusive relationship with a person for several years. Initially met him after a wrong number call, and despite various issues and doubts, was in a relationship. He has become increasingly controlling, threatening, blackmailing to maintain contact. I'm scared and anxious.
DATE: 2023-09-20
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16njj67/been_in_a_complicated_and_abusive_relationship/

--- POST TEXT ---

I am a very stupid person. And I know that probably it's all my fault. But I am in this situation where I don't know what to do. For this post let's say my name is Mona Sharma.

7 years ago a wrong number called on my phone. He said that"hi mona I'm calling because my sister called from your phone and asked me to call you on this number" and I said that I have no idea. And in this process that person kept calling me and I kept blocking him. 

On some unfortunate day he called me from different number saying sorry and that he talked to his sister and started talking to me. I talked normally and I forgot about this situation. 

Slowly that person started calling me and told me that his name is Manish and that he studies in a medical college in Patna. And I was preparing for neet and was in kota. So I thought it's nice to know someone so we became friends and then came in a relationship. 

We met and after seeing him and snooping on his phone I felt that he is a Muslim guy and I ran from there. But he reached my hostel and convinced me otherwise. 

And after that I kept asking fighting and losing my sanity about this because I kept asking for his ID and he kept sending forged documents. 2 years later I was on the verge of losing my mental sanity so I gave up. He used to tell me that I'm crazy and I need medical checkup. I left the topic and one day I planned something and confronted him calmly and told him that I would not react or anything if he once just told me the truth and he did.

His name was let us say XYZ Khan. Then I broke up with him. I came back home and left for college and he suddenly started calling me. I asked him what's the matter toh he said ki let's meet once as friends. I did. But he started behaving like I'm his girlfriend. But then lockdown happened so I forgot about him for 2 years. 

Then one day when I was talking to a friend he called and my phone was busy. Before that he had never called me in 2 years. So when my phone was busy he freaked out and later he got my call details somehow. He started calling everybody i know and asking to unblock him. He threatened to tell my parents. I'm very afraid of this. 

He again asked to meet by blackmailing me. I didn't and he called at my home through a girl and found that I am not in home and went to rishikesh. Then he went there and kept roaming around for three days and one day spotted me near laxman jhula. He started talking and kept saying sorry and to be in a relationship and to try.

But I said no. And fought a lot. 

He had blackmailed me for not cutting him off and disappearing. Or that he would call everybody in my home.

Till after 6 months of that, he kept doing all this and said that he will never do all these things again. He even did very nice things to show that he has changed and So I thought that I can give a try. And maybe I can make him understand the reality of this situation. 

I tried to be in a normal relationship for one year. But as expected it was full of fights and I really felt that there is no future even if he was not a Muslim. He is just a very different person and I hace grown up. And our thoughts are very different. Even he acknowledged that but he keeps saying really bad things about me and still won't let me go and live peacefully. 

I told him all this that I have put all my efforts into making this work but this is not working out. But he was just not listening. Then I left the place and moved on in my life. 

He even told me that I'm free to fo whatever I want. He will never blackmail me or anything like that again. 

But now almost 1 year later. He has again got my call details and harassing me. And my new BF. He is even saying that he has videos of me giving him bj. And he will send it to everyone and tell everything to my parents if I don't talk to him and stop talking to new bf. I have stopped talking. 

But I can't talk to him. He disgusts me and I really hate him. 

I feel like dying. I don't know what to do. He is threatening me day and night. I am keeping my phone off and I am in constant state of fear and anxiety. 

I know that somewhere it is my fault for going down in this spiral. And in retrospect I could have stopped this way earlier. But I was 17 when I got to know him and now I know better. I used to feel that talking and understanding will solve problems. But I have realised it won't. 

I'm sorry for being such a fool. 

Please help me. I don't want my parents to know. I can't go to police. I'm very scared.