Heard both sides. The petitioners seek bail in Special Case No.11 of

 2017 arising out of Agamkuan P.S. Case No.44 of 2017 registered

 under Section 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 34 , 120B of the Indian

 Penal Code, 66D of the I.T.Act and Section 7 , 8 , 9 , 13(i)(a)(d)(e) read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The informant, Dhirndra Kumar Singh, A.S.I. of Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 6 Agamkuan P.S. alleged that in the night at about 10.00 on

 03.02.2017, he received a secret information that in the house of

 Dinanath Singh situated in Mohalla Mahatma Gandhi Nagar,

 Kanti Factory Road, Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha were

 involved in cheating, getting questions and transmitting questions

 and answer sheets of the examination conducted by Bihar Staff

 Selection Commission for recruitment on different posts in the

 offices of the Govt. of Bihar. The accused persons are indulged in

 taking money from different candidates for giving them answer

 sheets of the questions and transmitting them through electronic

 devices after taking huge amount from many candidates. The

 informant having received such information informed the superior

 officers and after constituting search-cum-raiding team proceeded

 to the place to verify the genuineness of the information. The

 police arrived at first floor of the house occupied by Pawan Kumar

 and Atul Ranjan Sinha on rent but three persons seeing the police

 started fleeing away but they were apprehended on chase. The

 apprehended accused persons disclosed their names as Pawan

 Kumar, Vipin Kumar and Navnit Kumar. On interrogation, Pawan

 Kumar and Vipin Kumar disclosed that they in collusion and in

 connivance with Atul Ranjan Sinha, Gorelal @ Kaushik and Bhola

 @ Nitish were indulged in leaking the questions and answer sheets Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 7 of the examination held by Bihar Staff Selection Commission for

 recruitment of different posts. They used to take Rs.6 lacs from

 different candidates. The accused persons further disclosed the

 mode of their operations for realizing money from different

 persons for transmitting of questions and answer sheets through

 electronic devices by use of Bluetooth. They used to forward

 correct answers of the questions in the examination hall as well as

 before the beginning of the examination. Many electronic devices

 small Bluetooth, battery of Bluetooth, battery, cash, mobile

 phones and many original certificates of candidates, who had

 approached the accused, were recovered from the place. Mr. Y.V.Giri, the learned senior counsel appearing on

 behalf of petitioner, Sudhir Kumar, in Cr. Misc. No.22376 of 2017

 has firstly made two folds argument before making argument on

 merit. Mr. Y.V.Giri has firstly contended that since this Court

 carries biasness on account of the fact that this Court has disposed

 of Cr. Misc. No.20500 of 2017, bail petition of Vinit Kumar and

 others v. State of Bihar and Cr. Misc. No.21091 of 2017( Vipin

 Kumar v. State of Bihar ), therefore, this case be transferred to any

 other court. The learned counsel further submits that bias may be

 defined as a pre-conceived opinion or pre-disposition or pre-

 determination to decide a case or an issue in a particular manner Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 8 so much so that such pre-disposition does not lead the mind open

 to conviction. The learned counsel has placed his reliance on a

 Division Bench judgment of this Court in Prathmik Adhyapak

 Sangh V. State of Bihar and others reported in 2003(2) PLJR 305.

 Of course, the sole basis of alleging biasness is that this Court has

 disposed of bail petition of some of the accused persons as noted

 above. Admittedly, from perusal of the records of different bail

 petitions, it appears that earlier bail petition arising out of the

 present F.I.R. were heard by different Benches and when this fact

 was brought to the notice that the bail petitions of some of the

 accused were disposed of by this Court, all the bail petitions were

 transferred to this Court by the order of Hon'ble the Chief Justice.

 Of course, bias may be of different forms, such as, pecuniary bias,

 personal bias, bias as to subject matter in dispute or policy bias,

 bias on account of judicial obstinacy but the learned counsel for

 the petitioner could not be able to point out that the Court is

 suffering from any sort of biasness save and except this fact that

 this Court disposed of the bail petition of some of the accused

 persons on the basis of the materials available on record. From

 perusal of the judgment of Prathmik Adhyapak Sangh (supra) on

 which the learned counsel for the petitioner placed his reliance, it

 appears that there was a dispute with regard to pay scale of Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 9 different categories of teachers such as, trained, untrained,

 intermediate and graduate primary teachers and a fitment

 committee was constituted in order to resolve the disputes with

 regard to pay scales. The Hon'ble Judge was Chairman of the

 fitment appellate committee and he, after hearing, recommended

 for different pay scales to different category of primary teachers.

 Some of the categories of teachers being aggrieved with the

 recommendation of fitment appellate committee filed CWJC and

 the same was placed before the Hon'ble Judge who was the

 Chairman of the fitment appellate committee and on such, it was

 held that there was biasness on the part of the Hon'ble Judge

 because he had dealt with the matter and made recommendation of

 different categories of pay scales but the present case relates with

 the disposal of bail petition. In a particular case, there may be so

 many accused persons, the prayer for bail of those persons may be

 disposed of by different Benches or by a Single Bench. Some of

 the accused persons may be granted bail or some of the accused

 persons may not be granted bail. The grant of bail depends upon

 nature of allegations, gravity of offence and the materials available

 on record against particular accused. If a Judge or a Bench allows

 the bail petition of a particular accused or grant bail to a particular

 accused, he cannot be said to be having biasness of any kind, Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 10 therefore, I do not find any force in the submission of the learned

 counsel for the petitioner. Mr. Y.V.Giri, the learned senior counsel for the

 petitioner Sudhir Kumar further submits that the petitioner was the

 Chairman of the Bihar Staff Selection Committee at the relevant

 time. The investigating officer submitted chargesheet under

 different Sections of the I.P.C. and I.T. Act besides under Sections

 7 , 8 , 9 , 13(i)(a)(d)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act but the

 sanction was not granted against the petitioner as required under Section 19(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. No sanction

 was obtained before submission of the chargesheet. The learned

 Special Judge however took cognizance under different Sections

 of the Prevention of Corruption Act besides different Sections of

 the I.P.C. and I.T. Act. Therefore, the order of cognizance and

 remand subsequent to the order taking cognizance is bad. It is further contended that upon institution of the case,

 if the accused is arrested, the accused is remanded to the custody

 under Section 167(2) of the Cr.P.C. but after submission of charge

 sheet, the remand is made under Section 309(2) of the Cr.P.C. but

 the condition precedent for remand under Section 309(2) of the

 Cr.P.C. is that the Court must have taken cognizance against the

 accused. At the time of taking cognizance, the Magistrate or a Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 11 Special Judge has to look into the facts and the provisions as

 contained in Section 195 to 197 of the Cr.P.C. and any other Special Act as to whether he is competent to take cognizance or

 not, if without sanction no Court can take cognizance under the Special Act such as Prevention of Corruption Act . The Special

 Judge by virtue of taking cognizance under the I.P.C . cannot

 remand the accused under Section 309(2) of the Cr.P.C. It is

 further submitted that once the remand is illegal, the petitioner is

 entitled to get bail even under Section 439 read with Section 440 of the Cr.P.C. Special Judge, of course, is empowered to take

 cognizance of offences also under the I.P.C . but if he cannot take

 cognizance of offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act or Special Act in absence of sanction, he is not at all competent to

 take cognizance only under the different Sections of the I.P.C . The

 learned counsel for the petitioner placed his reliance on the

 judgment of Division Bench of this Court in Ahmad Ashfaque

 Karim v. State of Bihar through Vigilance and others reported in

 2015(1) PLJR 178. The learned counsel placed reliance in the case

 of Sri S.K.Lal, Special Judge C.B.I.(AHD), Patna v. Lalu Prasad

 & Ors. reported in 1998(1) PLJR 782. Contending the submission of Mr. Y.V.Giri, Mr. Ajay

 Mishra, learned counsel for the State submitted that if there is any Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 12 illegality or irregularity in an order taking cognizance due to lack

 of sanction under Section 19(1) of the Prevention of Corruption

 Act, the same cannot be looked into in a petition filed under Section 439 and 440 of the Cr.P.C.(hereinafter referred to as the

 "Code") for grant of bail. If the petitioners are at all aggrieved by

 the order taking cognizance in absence of sanction, the petitioner

 may file revision or quashing petition under Section 482 of the

 Code. The learned Additional P.P. further submits that

 besides Sudhir Kumar, the Chairman of Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission, many other employees of the State Govt. were

 working in the Bihar Staff Selection Commission and they were

 also found involved in leakage of question papers of examination

 held for appointment on different posts at district levels of the

 Govt. of Bhar. No sanction is required to prosecute them as they

 have already been dismissed from service and the Court has

 rightly taken cognizance under different Sections of the Indian

 Penal Code as well as different Sections of the Prevention of

 Corruption Act and I.T. Act. Therefore, the case of the petitioner,

 Sudhir Kumar cannot be separated from the case of others and

 even if the cognizance order under Prevention of Corruption Act against Sri Sudhir Kumar is illegal or irregular, the Special Judge Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 13 has got power to put him on trial along with other accused persons

 and the order taking cognizance under different Sections of the I.P.C . against Sri Sudhir Kumar is not illegal. Therefore, after

 taking cognizance, remand of all the accused under Section 309(2)

 of the Code cannot be said to be illegal. It is further submitted that

 in the facts of the present case, no sanction as contemplated under Section 19(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 is

 necessary in as much as sanction would be required under Section

 19(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, if an offence is

 committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 , in

 discharge of his official duty by a public servant or in purported

 discharge of his official duty. In the present case, the officials who

 are found to be involved in leaking the question papers of a

 competitive examination for appointment on different posts cannot

 be said to be done in pursuance of official duty and, therefore,

 sanction for his prosecution is not warranted. It is no doubt that if an accused is arrested during the

 course of investigation after institution of a case, the remand of the

 accused is made under Section 167(2) of the Code but after

 submission of charge sheet, the Court has to take cognizance

 before remanding the accused to custody under Section 309(2) of

 the Code as has also been held by a Division Bench of this Court Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 14 in the case of S.K.Lal(supra). In the present case also, the Special Judge has also

 taken cognizance against all the accused persons including those

 who were working as a Govt. servants in the Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission under different Sections of the I.P.C., I.T. Act and

 Prevention of Corruption Act. In view of sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, the Special Judge is also

 empowered to try any offences under different Sections of I.P.C .

 other than the offences specified in Section 3 with which the

 accused may be put on trial after framing of charges in the same

 trial against whom charges under different Sections of Prevention

 of Corruption Act is framed. Under sub clause (a), (b) of sub-

 section (1), the Special Judge is also empowered to try the

 offences relating to any conspiracy to commit or any attempt to

 commit or any abatement of any of the offence specified in clause (a). Clause (a) of Section 3(1) says with regard to trial of the

 offence under the Act. Therefore, in view of these facts, I find that

 the Special Judge is competent to remand the petitioner, if

 cognizance under different Sections of the I.P.C . is taken against

 him and the remand of the petitioner cannot be said to be illegal

 even if the cognizance against the petitioner under different Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 15 Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act is illegal for want of

 sanction or irregular on any technical ground. Therefore, if at all any illegality or irregularity was

 found in taking cognizance against the petitioner Sri Sudhir

 Kumar under Prevention of Corruption Act , his remand or trial

 along with other accused persons against whom cognizance was

 taken under different Sections of I.P.C. and Prevention of

 Corruption Act also cannot be separated from other accused

 persons. Therefore, in my view, the remand of the petitioner

 cannot be held to be illegal. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 petitioner, Atal Bihari Rai of Cr. Misc. No.32127 of 2017 submits

 that the petitioner is not named in the F.I.R. The name of the

 petitioner figured in confession of Saroj, Alok and Niti Ranjan

 Pratap. The petitioner was appointed as teacher of Maths in

 A.V.N. school and he is alleged to have taken different

 photographs of the question papers and transmitted the same

 through Whatsapp to different examinees. The petitioner has

 already resigned from the post of teacher of A.V.N. school and he

 has been selected a teacher in Rajkiya Madhya Vidyalaya,

 Aurangabad. Petitioner is in jail since 12.02.2017. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 16 petitioner, Avinash Kumar of Cr. Misc. No.25814 of 2017 submits

 that the petitioner was working as D.E.O. in Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission. Petitioner is not named in the F.I.R. The petitioner is

 found to have talked with Ramesh @ Rameshwar. Ramesh @

 Rameshwar happens to be neighbour of the petitioner and save

 and except this fact, there is no other allegation against the

 petitioner. Petitioner is in jail since 08.02.2017. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 petitioner Arun Kumar in Cr. Misc. No.25151 of 2017 submits

 that the petitioner is also not named in the F.I.R. His name

 appeared in confession of Ashish Kumar, the elder brother of the

 petitioner but nothing has been recovered from the possession of

 the petitioner. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 petitioner Niti Ranjan Pratap in Cr. Misc. No.27285 of 2017

 submits that the petitioner is not named in the F.I.R. Petitioner was

 working as I.T. Manager. The petitioner was found talking with

 Parmeshwar Ram, Secretary of Bihar Staff Selection Commission.

 Petitioner is said to have confessed his guilt but save and except

 confession, there is no material against the petitioner and

 petitioner is in jail since 24.02.2017. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 17 petitioner Om Prakash Gupta in Cr. Misc. No.31100 of 2017

 submits that the name of the petitioner is not figured in the F.I.R.

 Name of the petitioner figured in the case on confession in para 11. No Whatsapp message was found in the mobile of the

 petitioner. The learned counsel for the petitioner, Anish Kumar

 submits that the name of the petitioner also figured during the

 course of investigation in the confessional statement of Dinesh.

 Anish disclosed that Dinesh supplied the answer sheets of the

 question on his mobile and on the mobile no.970832775 of Saroj.

 There is no direct involvement of the petitioner. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 petitioners, Ram Sumer Singh in Cr. Misc. No.33675 of 2017,

 Gauri Shankar Singh in Cr. Misc. No.35081 of 2017, Dinesh

 Kumar Azad in Cr. Misc. No.33259 of 2017, Mukesh Kumar in

 Cr. Misc. No.27611 of 2017 and Guddu Kumar in Cr. Misc.

 No.23833 of 2017submits that they are not named in the F.I.R. and

 they have been made accused on the basis of certain conversation.

 Similarly situated co-accused persons have already been granted

 bail. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

 petitioner Manju Kumari @ Manju Devi and Awdhesh Kumar in Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 18 Cr. Misc. No.22807 of 2017 and Cr. Misc. No.24035 of 2017

 submits that they are innocent and they have falsely been

 implicated in the case only because they happens to be brother and

 brother's wife of Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of the Bihar Staff

 Selection Commission. Mr. Y.V.Giri, learned senior counsel appearing on

 behalf of petitioner Sudhir Kumar in Cr. Misc. No.22376 of 2017

 has submitted that petitioner is innocent and he has in fact,

 committed no offence. It has nowhere come in the entire case

 diary that the question was leaked at the level of the Chairman or

 at the instance of the Chairman of the Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission. No offence under any Section of the I.P.C . is made

 out against the petitioner. At best, offence under Bihar Conduct

 Examination Act can be made out which is bailable. The petitioner

 was made chairman of the Bihar Staff Selection Commission on

 21.01.2016. His relatives such as Arun Kumar, Anish Kumar, sons

 of his sister had already applied in competitive examination before

 joining of the petitioner as Chairman of the Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission. Charge sheet has already been submitted and there is

 no chance of tampering with the evidence. The petitioner is in jail

 for more than 9 months. On such ground, the learned counsel for

 the petitioners prayed to enlarge the petitioner on bail. Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 19 Mr. Ajay Mishra, learned counsel appearing on behalf

 of the State submits that petitioner, Avinash Kumar, Niti Ranjan

 Pratap were D.E.O. and I.T. Manager of Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission. The petitioners, Atal Bihari Rai, Ram Sumer Singh,

 Gauri Shankar Singh, Dinesh Kumar Azad, Mukesh Kumar,

 Guddu Kumar are working in the A.V.N. school as teacher or

 D.E.O. and they are connected with each other. Petitioner,

 Avinash and Arun are the nephew of Sri Sudhir Kumar, Chairman

 of Bihar Staff Selection Commission. Petitioner, Awdhesh Kumar

 is the younger brother of Sri Sudhir Kumar and petitioner, Manju

 Devi is the wife of Awdhesh Kumar. It is submitted that informant

 got information about leakage of question and transmission of

 question papers to different examinees and distribution of answer

 sheets through electronic media. The raid was conducted at the

 house of Dina Nath Singh. Three persons namely Vipin Kumar,

 Pawan Kumar and Navnit Kumar were arrested. Pawan Kumar

 and Atul Ranjan Sinha had taken the house on rent. Huge quantity

 of admit cards, mark sheets of different candidates, blue chips,

 other electronic articles were recovered. During the course of

 disclosure made by the accused persons, it transpired that Avinash

 Kumar and Niti Ranjan Pratap, the I.T. Manager of Bihar Staff

 Selection Commission also involved in the leaking of question Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 20 papers of the examination through Pawan Kumar, Navnit Kumar,

 Atul Ranjan Sinha. They used to send the answer sheets to the

 examinees who had paid money to them. The learned counsel for

 the State further referred paragraphs of the case diary and evidence

 coming after examination of their mobile SIM cards and other

 electronic gadgets from Forensic Science Laboratory that all the

 members of the gang were well connected and had talk with each

 other immediately before the examination. The question papers

 were leaked by the gang in collusion with the staffs of Bihar Staff

 Selection Commission (BSSC), Secretary and Chairman. It has

 also come during the course of investigation that the Director of

 all the staffs of the A.V.N. is involved in leaking the question

 papers from the Centre at A.V.N. school. It is further submitted that to unearth the scam of

 leaking of question papers of the examination conducted by Bihar

 Staff Selection Commission for appointment on different posts in

 the Collectorate and different Govt. offices of State of Bihar,

 S.I.T. was constituted. Many investigating officers were

 appointed. The investigating officers collecting the C.D.R.(call

 detail report) of mobile numbers, Whatsapp message of mobile

 numbers of the accused persons. The entire F.S.L. reports are

 attached with the voluminous case diary. It is further submitted Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 21 that during the course of investigation, it transpired that the

 questions were leaked primarily from three groups. In the first

 group of Pawan Kumar, Atul Ranjan Sinha, Vipin Kumar, Navnit

 Kumar, Bhola @ Nitish and many others including many of the

 petitioners were involved and from the raid, three apprehended

 accused namely Pawan Kumar, Vipin Kumar and Navnit Kumar

 disclosed the entire racket. On the basis of disclosure made by

 them, different levels of the scam were revealed. It transpired that

 Data Entry Operator, I.T. Manager(Avinash Kumar and Niti

 Ranjan Pratap) and other officials of Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission were also involved in transmitting question papers to

 the members of the gang after getting otherwise consideration.

 The members of the gang led by Atul Ranjan Sinha, Pawan

 Kumar, Vipin Kumar and others used to sell answer sheets of the

 questions after getting heavy amounts from different candidates

 and that is why admit cards, account number and address of

 different candidates and many other electronic devices were

 recovered from the possession of Pawan Kumar, Vipin Kumar and

 Navnit Kumar from the house of Dinanath Singh. It is further submitted that the second point for leaking

 the question was A.V.N. school where the Centre for examination

 was fixed. From the disclosure made by Atal Bihari Rai, Ram Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 22 Sumer Singh, Rameshwar Singh and others who used to took

 photographs of the questions half an hour before the

 commencement of the examination and they used to transmit the

 question papers to different persons to get answer sheets for the

 candidates appearing at the A.V.N. school. The teachers and other

 officials of the school were indulged by using unfair means for

 getting undesired candidates selected by supplying correct answers

 to them after getting heavy amounts. Mr. Ajay Mishra, learned counsel for the respondent

 further submits that the third source of leakage of questions and

 answer sheets was high officials of the Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission including Sri Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of Bihar Staff

 Selection Commission. It is further submitted that Sudhir Kumar

 was solely responsible for setting of the question papers and

 printing works. Sudhir Kumar disclosed in his answers to the

 questionnaires by which he was confronted by the investigating

 officer. Sri Sudhir Kumar disclosed that question was set by one

 Das Gupta, a Professor of I.I.T. Delhi but during investigation, no

 person was found. Only one Tapan Das Gupta was found in IIT

 Delhi as an Assistant Professor in Mechanical Engineering but he

 denied to have set the question papers for any examination of

 Bihar Staff Selection Commission. It is further submitted that Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 23 Sudhir Kumar entrusted the printing work to Vinit Kumar,

 Director of Confisc Pvt. Ltd., GIDC, Ahmedabad, Gujarat but

 during the course of investigation, it transpired that there was no

 agreement between the Chairman and the printing press. It has

 come that two or three days before commencement of

 examination, the question papers were transmitted through

 electronic gadgets to different persons. Arun Kumar, Avinash

 Kumar, Awdhesh Kumar and Manju Devi(nephew, brother and

 wife of brother of Sudhir Kumar) disclosed in their statement that

 they got the answer sheets and question papers from the house of

 the father of Sudhir Kumar. It has come that 135 answers of the

 questions were found correct. Arun Kumar and Avinash Kumar

 also disclosed that they transmitted the question papers and answer

 sheets to different persons in order to earn money. Awdhesh

 Kumar and Manju Devi, brother and sister-in-law of Sudhir

 Kumar also confessed their guilt and disclosed that they also took

 part in supplying the answer sheets after getting it. It is further submitted that in similar case bail of one

 co-accused, Anand Sharma was rejected by a co-ordinate Bench of

 this court vide order passed in Cr. Misc. No.35956 of 2017. In the

 topper scam case, bail granted to one Amit Kumar @ Baccha Rai

 was cancelled by the Apex Court in S.L.P. 2015(1) PLJR 178 Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 24 stating that in such a serious case bail should not have been

 granted. It is further submitted that the prayer for bail of Vinit

 Kumar, owner of the printing press, Ajay Kumar @ Ajay

 Kashyap, Manager of the printing press and Vipin Kumar who

 was apprehended by the police along with Navnit Kumar and

 Pawan Kumar at the first instance was rejected by this Court on

 03.07.2017. Therefore, the petitioners do not deserve bail. Perused the records and the case diary. The informant

 at the first instance disclosed that he got information that Pawan

 Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha were distributing questions and

 answer sheets to the examinees of Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission. The examination was scheduled to be held in four

 phases. First examination to be held on 29.01.2017. The second

 examination was to be held on 05.02.2017. The police on such

 information raided the rented house in which Pawan Kumar and

 Atul Ranjan Sinha were residing. From the house, Pawan Kumar,

 Navnit Kumar and Vipin Kumar were apprehended. The police

 recovered different articles mobiles, Bluetooth, admit cards of

 different candidates. Pawan Kumar disclosed the name of many

 persons namely Kaushal Kishore Singh, Rameshwar Singh,

 Avinash Kumar, Data Entry Operator of Bihar Staff Selection Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 25 Commission. Pawan Kumar disclosed that Avinash Kumar, Data

 Entry Operator supplied question papers and answer sheets to

 them for supply to different candidates. They used to supply

 question papers, answer sheets through electronic apparatus to the

 candidates after realizing Rs.6 lacs to them. During the course of

 investigation, Prashant Kumar, Vidyanand Bharti, Sikandar came

 and disclosed before the investigating officer that they also

 received Whatsapp message containing answer sheets on their

 mobiles with regard to examination to be held on 05.02.2017. It

 also transpired during the course of investigation that Avinash

 Kumar, Data Entry Operator of Bihar Staff Selection Commission

 and Parmeshwar Ram are also indulged in leaking the question for

 illegal gain. Avinash Kumar, petitioner was apprehended and he

 disclosed the entire facts revealing the scam going on in Bihar

 Staff Selection Commission. Ramesh @ Rameshwar Kumar also

 got questions and answer sheets of the examination and he also

 disclosed the same in his statement before the police. Many

 mobiles were seized. During the course of investigation,

 Ramashish Singh, Director of A.V.N. school and his relative, Ram

 Sumer Singh, petitioner were also found involved in the scam of

 leaking questions and answer sheets. They disclosed that how the

 teachers and other staffs of A.V.N. were involved in taking Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 26 photographs of the question papers before the commencement of

 the examination and transmitting it to different persons to get

 answers for supplying to the candidates of their choice from whom

 they collected money. On the basis of the disclosure made by

 Ramashish Singh, Ram Sumer Singh, Gauri Shankar Singh,

 Anand Sharma, Om Prakash Gupta, Dinesh Kumar, Atal Bihari

 Rai and Mukesh Kumar, petitioners were also found involved and

 it transpired that many candidates got questions and answer sheets

 before the scheduled time of examination. It further transpired that

 the role of Sri Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission and other staff including the Data Entry Operator,

 Avinash Kumar and Niti Ranjan Pratap, I.T. Manager were

 suspected and they were found involved. They supplied the

 questions and answer sheets to their relatives. Of course, Sri

 Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of Bihar Staff Selection Commission

 denied to have played any role in the scam but when he was

 confronted with the questionnaire, he disclosed that questions

 were printed by Vinit Kumar. Ajay Kumar, Manager of the

 printing press used to carry the manuscript. He disclosed that one

 Das Gupta of IIT, Delhi set the question papers but during the

 course of investigation, it transpired that one Tapan Das Gupta

 was found working in Mechanical Engineering, IIT, Delhi but he Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 27 denied to have set any question for any examination of Bihar Staff

 Selection Commission. It has further come that Awdhesh Kumar,

 brother of Sri Sudhir Kumar, Manju Devi wife of Awdhesh

 Kumar, Ashish and Arun, sons of sisters of Sudhir Kumar were

 also involved and they were arrested. Ashish and Arun disclosed

 that their maternal uncle left the question papers at his parental

 house situated at Hazaribagh. They got the answer sheets from

 maternal grandfather and father of Sudhir Kumar. They also

 disclosed that they supplied the answer sheets to different

 candidates in order to earn money. Awdhesh Kumar and his wife,

 petitioners are also found involved in circulating the answer

 sheets. From perusal of the entire case diary, C.D.R. and entire

 reports of Forensic Science Laboratory after examination of

 mobile and Whatsapp message, it appears that all the accused

 persons were in regular touch with each other before the

 commencement of the examination. Even the secrecy of setting

 the questions and answer sheets was not maintained at any level

 and even the staffs of lower strata of Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission such as, Data Entry Operator and I.T. Manager had

 access to the question papers and answer sheets and there are

 materials that they also involved in the scam of leaking the Patna High Court Cr.M isc. No.32127 of 2017 (14) dt.06-12-2017 28 questions and answer sheets. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that

 Sajjad Ahmad was granted bail by a co-ordinate Bench of this

 Court and the State was not heard while granting bail in Cr. Misc.

 No.32916 of 2017. The State has also filed the petition for

 cancellation of bail of Sajjad Ahmad. Considering the facts aforesaid, I am not inclined to

 enlarge the petitioners on bail. Accordingly, the same is rejected. (Prabhat Kumar Jha, J)
Saurabh/-