The parties to the lis are the same i.e., complainant and the

accused. Therefore, the facts obtaining in Criminal Petition No.3224

of 2022 are noticed for the sake of convenience and the parties will

be referred as per their ranking obtaining in the criminal petition. The petitioner in Criminal Petition No.3224 of 2022, the sole

accused in C.C.No.50232 of 2022, is calling in question the entire

proceedings in Crime No.209 of 2019 for offences punishable under Sections 323 and 509 of the IPC. Writ Petition No.11523 of 2022 is

preferred by the complainant seeking further investigation into the

crime, on the score that the investigation has dropped several vital

offences that were made in the complaint. 2. Heard Sri Shashank Nagendran, learned counsel appearing

for the petitioner in Criminal Petition No.3224 of 2022 and

respondent No.2 in W.P.No.11523 of 2022, Sri B.N.Jagadeesh,

learned Additional Special Public Prosecutor for respondent No.1 in

both the petitions and Sri Rohan Kothari, learned counsel appearing 5 for the petitioner in W.P.No.11523 of 2022 and respondent No.2 in

Crl.P.No.3224 of 2022. 3. Facts, in brief, adumbrated are as follows:- 4. It is the case of the complainant that being fed up with the

attitude of the accused, the complainant ends her relationship with

him on 09-01-2016. But, the accused did not stop at that, but went

on blackmailing the complainant. On 31-01-2016 the complainant

had quit the Company, her resignation was accepted and she shifts

residence. Two years passed by. On 18-07-2018, it is the case of

the complainant that she comes across a video on instagram how

Kanchan Kumar was raped by the accused three years ago at the

apartment of the accused where she was forced to leave her top

and innerwear. Seeing the video the complainant is said to have

gathered certain courage and decided to register the crime as she 7 was also subjected to such harassment and had no courage to

register the complaint then. Altercation between Kanchan Kumar

and the accused go on in the online blog by name Immediate.com. 5. The complainant gathering courage on 24-08-2019 files the

complaint before the jurisdictional police. The Police registered the

crime in Crime No.209 of 2019 for offences punishable under Sections 323 , 354 , 354(A) , 354(B) , 376 , 506 , 509 of the IPC and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2008. The Police

conduct investigation, the investigation leads to the filing of a final

report against the accused in C.C.No.50232 of 2022 for only two

offences one Section 323 of the IPC for assault and the other,

Section 509 insulting modesty of a woman. Challenging registration

of criminal case for the aforesaid offences, the accused has

preferred the criminal petition. The complainant, on the score that

the investigation was shoddy and all other offences are given up,

has preferred the writ petition seeking further investigation. It is,

therefore, the two are taken up together. 6. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would

contend that the acts between the complainant and the petitioner

were all consensual. Therefore, the Police have rightly dropped the

offences punishable under Section 376 and etc. inter alia and have

retained Sections 323 and 509 of the IPC. Even those offences are

not met in the case at hand is his submission. All consensual acts

between the complainant and the accused are projected to be

offences after about 3 years of the said occurrence, with there

being no explanation for delay. He would further contend that the

order of taking of cognizance, by the concerned Court, is cryptic

and bereft of reasons and on these grounds seeks quashment of the

proceedings. 7. Per contra, the learned counsel representing the

complainant would contend that in such cases delay should not be

the reason to allow the accused to get away with certain

horrendous offences that he has committed upon the complainant. The learned counsel would submit that the complainant did not

have courage till "me too" movement began online of all women

being harassed in work places either sexually or physically. On 9 looking into this, the complainant garnered courage and registered

the complaint. It is his submission that the Police have not

conducted the present investigation vis-à-vis the complaint and,

therefore, a further investigation under Section 173(8) of the Cr.P.C

should be directed to be conducted by the Police. 8. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 9. The afore-narrated facts are not in dispute. The petitioner

and the complainant coming in contact with each other through an

online blog portal is a matter of record. The entire issue has now

sprung from the complaint dated 24-08-2019 which is in great

detail. The genesis of the relationship between the two is quoted at

para-3 of the complaint. It goes on from 07-08-2015 when the

complainant begins to work as an intern with the Company/Happy

Creative Services Limited under the accused. Blossoming of the

relationship is noticed and the relationship turning into sexual

relationship is also narrated and how it tumbled down on account of 10 the accused getting acquainted to another lady is also narrated. There are allegations that the accused had forced the complainant

to have unnatural sex and had defamed the complainant

throughout in the social media. The complainant also narrates as

last of the incident between them to be on 09-01-2016 but the

complaint itself is registered on 09-09-2019 though it is dated

24-08-2019. The reason for the late registration of the complaint is

necessary to be noticed. It reads as follows: ".... .... .... 19. The sexual, physical and emotional violence sustained
 by me at the hands of the accused was extremely severe and
 traumatizing. I was left very weak and vulnerable, requiring
 time to heal, and to come to terms with what had been inflicted
 on me. Due to my fragile state I could not seek any legal or
 police assistance in the weeks and months following the incident
 of rape, as well as the various other offences committed by the
 accused on me. I also had no support for any legal help and it is
 only now that I have been able to get the courage to report
 these violent incidents. 20. On 18-07-2018, one Kanchan Kumar (having
 Instagram handle @ Kawnchann) shared certain videos on her
 Instagram account recounting how she had also been raped by
 the accused. In her video, Kanchan Kumar mentioned how the
 incident in question took place three years ago, at flat in
 Indiranagar, and also mentioned the accused by name as well
 as the name of his dog (Arya). She further mentioned in this
 video that she had been forced to leave her top and innerwear
 at the Accused's flat. Sometime after the uploading of these
 videos, I was contacted by three of my friends (Mrs. Sahana
 Das, Mr. Vinay Kumar, Mr. Nasoom Parmar) separately via
 phone calls, Whatsapp messages and Instagram messages, on 11 18-07-2018, informing me that the Accused had allegedly raped
another woman with the Instagram handle @ Kawnchann, and
directed me to the said videos. When I watched the said videos,
I immediately knew that the Shreyas that was being spoken of
in the said videos was the Accused, and that Kanchan Kumar
was the same woman that the Accused had mentioned to me in
the month of November 2015 (see paras 11 and 12 herein-
above). A copy of videos uploaded by Kanchan Kumar on
Instagram dated 18-07-2018 are uploaded on the enclosed USB
drive). 21. Realizing that I was not the only victim of the
Accused's depravity, I was emboldened and contacted Kanchan
Kumar via a private message on Instagram on 18-07-2018. In
this message, I told her that I remembered her top lying in the
drawing room of the Accused's flat in November, 2015, and also
shared with her that I had been sexually and physically and
emotionally abused by the Accused. Thereafter these messaged
were publicly shared by Kanchan Kumar on Instagram, after
redacting my name. 22. In the following few days, I assisted Kanchan to
communicate with several others trying to get in touch with her
in connection with the allegations she had made against the
Accused. These included women who had also confided in
Kanchan Kumar about their own stories of abuse and
uncomfortable and offensive interactions with the Accused.
Kanchan also shared with me some of the messages she
received from such other women, after redacting their names. 23. On 19-07-2018, the Accused shared a post on
Instagram responding to the videos uploaded by Kanchan
Kumar, threatening to file a suit for defamation, and attempted
by present a defence of himself by sharing sceenshots of private
conversations had between Kanchan and himself over
Whatsapp. The accused in this post, also shared older posts
uploaded by him on Facebook, which indicate the scant respect
he has for women, and his violent sexual tendencies. This post
caused something of a backlash on Instagram, resulting in its
removal on 20-07-2018, as it violated Instagram's "Community
Guidelines". On 21-07-2018, Kanchan put up a statement on
her Instagram account thanking people for supporting her, and
requesting them not take any vigilante action. Following this 12 however, Kanchan decided that she would no longer involve
herself with anything to do with the Accused as it was affecting
her mental health and ability to work on a day-to-day basis. She
stated this to me on 08-08-2018, and we have not been in
contact since. (A Screenshot of Facebook status posted by Accused on 16-10-
2017 is annexed hereto as ANNEXURE-6). (A Screenshot of Instagram post/statement dated 21.07.2018
posted by Kanchan Kumar regarding sexual assault committed
by the Accused is annexed hereto as ANNEXURE-7).
(A Picture of News report dated 18-07-2018 is annexed hereto
as ANNEXURE-8). 24. On 06-09-2018, the Accused, in a further attempt to
dislodge the allegations made against him by Kanchan Kumar,
uploaded a further blogpost on Medium.Com stating that
Kanchan was falsely claiming to have been raped. This blogpost
too was taken down by Medium.com, as it violated their
Community Guidelines. The Accused thereafter uploaded the
same blogpost on Wordpress.com on 07-09-2018, where it
remains till date, available at https: 25. In the aforementioned blogpost and subsequently on
Instagram, the Accused, apart from showcasing his debauched
and disgusting attitude towards women, has defamed me by
making false, disparaging and extremely negative statements
about me and has made a calculated attempt to ensure that my
identity is made available to the public at large. On the same
day i.e., 07-09-2018, Kanchan Kumar deleted her Instagram
account (@ Kawnchann), and ceased publicly accessible online
activity. 26. In April, 2019, the Accused's Twitter account was
suspended. On 26 May 2019, the Accused uploaded a second
blog post through which he further defamed me with false
claims calculated to bring me into disrepute in society. Further,
in this blog post, the Accused admits to having indulged in
sexual conduct with me against my consent and goes further in 13 establishing that the Accused has committed the offences I have
 alleged against him. (A copy of the Accused's blogpost dated 26-05-2019 is annexed
 hereto as ANNEXURE-10). 27. Further, on 18-06-2019, an audioclip/podcast was
 uploaded on the website Youtube.com and Twitter.com, where
 the Accused had made further derogatory, slanderous and
 defamatory remarks against me that are false, in an attempt to
 intimidate, harass and victimize me. The said audioclip was
 uploaded by a channel called "Shortcut to indie A", and is still on
 line, accessible at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v-
 4VxEc2x0qc&t=1s. (The aforementioned audioclip is uploaded on the enclosed USB
 Drive.) 28. It has also been brought to my attention that the
 offences that I have alleged against the Accused are not the
 only ones he has been accused of. At present the Accused
 herein is also one of the Accused in C.C.No.15297 of 2017,
 arising out of FIR bearing Crime No.142/2016 registered under Sections 353 , 332 , 504 and 34 IPC by the Cubbon Park Police
 Station. This case is currently pending on the file of the VIII
 ACMM, Bangalore. 29. The abovementioned facts and circumstances clearly
 shows that the Accused has committed various cognizable
 offences within the jurisdiction of this Police Station, and
 therefore, necessary steps should be immediately taken against
 him. While I have submitted materials along with this complaint
 that substantiate my allegations, a thorough and detailed
 investigation is required to ensure that the Accused is brought
 to justice. I undertake to fully cooperate with your good office in
 pursuance of this mater, and to provide any other information
 which may be required to pursue the present case." Based upon the said complaint, a crime comes to be registered in

Crime No.209 of 2019 initially for offences including one of rape. The Police conduct investigation; the investigation leads to filing of 14 the charge sheet. The summary of the charge sheet, as obtaining in

column No.7, is as follows: All other offences are taken off and the Investigating Officer found

only the offences under Section 323 of IPC which is assault and Section 509 of IPC which is insulting the modesty of a woman to be

the ones that can be alleged against the petitioner. The learned

Magistrate, by his order dated 14-01-2022, takes cognizance of the

offences. The order of taking cognizance reads as follows: It is this order that has driven the petitioner to this Court in the

subject criminal petition. The petitioner though has sought the

prayer to quash the proceedings, what merits consideration at this

juncture is, the manner in which cognizance is taken by the learned

Magistrate. The order is quoted supra. It does not bear even a

semblance of application of mind. No doubt the order of taking of

cognizance need not be in great detail, but it should at least reflect

some application of mind, as summons would be issued to the

accused once cognizance is taken. Therefore, it become necessary

for the concerned Court while taking cognizance to apply its mind

and then take cognizance and issue summons. It is that the

concerned Court should take cognizance only to the offences that

are found while filing the final report. 10. It becomes germane to notice the judgments of the Apex

Court, which have all dealt with orders of taking cognizance to be

wanting application of mind. The Apex Court in the case of PEPSI 16 FOODS LIMITED v. SPECIAL JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE1 has held

as follows: ".... .... .... 28. Summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a
 serious matter. Criminal law cannot be set into motion as
 a matter of course. It is not that the complainant has to
 bring only two witnesses to support his allegations in the
 complaint to have the criminal law set into motion. The
 order of the Magistrate summoning the accused must
 reflect that he has applied his mind to the facts of the
 case and the law applicable thereto. He has to examine
 the nature of allegations made in the complaint and the
 evidence both oral and documentary in support thereof
 and would that be sufficient for the complainant to
 succeed in bringing charge home to the accused. It is not
 that the Magistrate is a silent spectator at the time of recording
 of preliminary evidence before summoning of the accused. The
 Magistrate has to carefully scrutinise the evidence brought on
 record and may even himself put questions to the complainant
 and his witnesses to elicit answers to find out the truthfulness of
 the allegations or otherwise and then examine if any offence is
 prima facie committed by all or any of the accused." (Emphasis supplied)

The aforesaid judgment in the case of PEPSI FOODS LIMITED has

been reiterated by the Apex Court in the case of SACHIN GARG v. STATE OF U.P. reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 82. The Apex

Court holds that the order of the learned Magistrate should not be

cryptic or too lengthy. It should at least bear application of mind. Between the judgments of PEPSI FOODS LIMITED and SACHIN 1 (1998) 5 SCC 749 17 GARG, the Apex Court in the case of SUNIL BHARTI MITTAL v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION2 has held as follows: ".... .... .... 51. On the other hand, Section 204 of the Code
 deals with the issue of process, if in the opinion of the
 Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence, there is
 sufficient ground for proceeding. This section relates to
 commencement of a criminal proceeding. If the
 Magistrate taking cognizance of a case (it may be the
 Magistrate receiving the complaint or to whom it has
 been transferred under Section 192), upon a
 consideration of the materials before him (i.e. the
 complaint, examination of the complainant and his
 witnesses, if present, or report of inquiry, if any), thinks
 that there is a prima facie case for proceeding in respect
 of an offence, he shall issue process against the accused. 52. A wide discretion has been given as to grant or
 refusal of process and it must be judicially exercised. A person
 ought not to be dragged into court merely because a complaint
 has been filed. If a prima facie case has been made out, the
 Magistrate ought to issue process and it cannot be refused
 merely because he thinks that it is unlikely to result in a
 conviction. 53. However, the words "sufficient ground for
 proceeding" appearing in Section 204 are of immense
 importance. It is these words which amply suggest that
 an opinion is to be formed only after due application of
 mind that there is sufficient basis for proceeding against
 the said accused and formation of such an opinion is to be
 stated in the order itself. The order is liable to be set
 aside if no reason is given therein while coming to the
 conclusion that there is prima facie case against the
 accused, though the order need not contain detailed
 reasons. A fortiori, the order would be bad in law if the
 reason given turns out to be ex facie incorrect." (Emphasis supplied) 2 (2015) 4 SCC 609 18 The Apex Court holds that a wide discretion has been granted to the

concerned Court to take cognizance against the offences, but not

the offenders and exercise of such discretion should bear

application of mind. 11. As observed hereinabove, it is not that the learned

Magistrate should take cognizance, once a final report is filed before

the concerned Court. It is always open to the learned Magistrate

not to accept the report and direct further investigation into the

matter. The companion petition preferred by the complainant seeks

exactly the same relief. Therefore, I deem it appropriate to remit

the matter back to the hands of the learned Magistrate to look into

the report, analyze the need of necessity of further investigation

and then pass necessary orders in accordance with law. 12. Leaving open liberty to the complainant to knock at the

doors of the appropriate fora so also to the accused, I pass the

following: Liberty is reserved to the complainant to seek further
 investigation by a specific application preferred before
 the concerned Court. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed. Sd/- JUDGE
bkp
CT:MJ