SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Anyone here face recent IT/eCommerce MLM dorks? [Bonus - how to spot an MLM]
DATE: 2023-05-16
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/13izaum/anyone_here_face_recent_itecommerce_mlm_dorks/

--- POST TEXT ---

So about 2 years ago, I had a brush with legit IITians who tried to scam me by selling me a lot of hope about having a diversified income and how a little investment can reap in multitudes with merely a few hours a week. It was less business and more motivational speech. 

This dude goes on to mention some random uncles name, who changed his life and blah blah (basically the chief face of any MLM is marketed as a hero)

I'd spent a short while in the startup world to know that regardless of your investment, the person pitching to you will always be amply clear on the idea that leads the charge, the work division and the general culture. 

As I pushed deeper on these questions, I'd simply received a 'basic work', 'eCommerce', 'Interacting', which was like answering what I'd have to learn and do in school and in response I'm told that I will sit on a bench and eat my tiffin box during the recess and lunch period, like yeah, I fucking expect that, but that's definitely not enough to entice me. 

They'd mentioned that I am expected to foot a 4.5L initial investment, and when I said I did not have it, they said take a personal loan, you will be able to cover it with the EMI because within a year you will have multifold gains well enough to clear the initial principle amount. 

When I realized that something was fishy at the end of the first call, I said I'd circle back only for them to ask me about a definite time, to put-up this sense of urgency, that an offer was leaving my shore and I'd have to grab it ASAP, tbh, at that point he felt more like a vendor selling me milk that'll spoil if I dont take it. 

A day or so later, they zealously reached out, and I said I didn't bother. 

I later found that this was one of the many scams trapping naive engineers with the hopes for a better life, a popular one under the name 'QNet'.

\-- It was funny and offensive, how these guys were from IITR and IIT-BHU and thought I'd be a perfect chomu. 

So tips to notice an oncoming MLM: 

1. Guy you barely know or met a couple of times will reach out to you out of the blue
2. they'll talk to you as if you've known each other all your lives, developing some form of a caring personal bond 
3. then when asked what they're upto, a vague mention of a business will pop up, you know a few hours, earning good money 
4. the story will get deeper with motivational keywords, multi-stream earning, diversifying, financial independence, taking off stress from my parents/family, blah blah
5. Then in the 2nd or 3rd call, they will introduce a third character, someone who changed their life, their mentor who brought them into the business side and opened their worldview 
6. Will recommend that you meet this character, they will take the onus of setting up the time and say don't worry, just come and be motivated, it will change your life 
7. Third character talks as if he's some Shiv Khera, and hype up your ego with all these things that you can achieve, financial independence and blah blah 
8. Will speak of how easy it's to invest every money on a loan and will grow multifold in less than a year
9. Work description will be basic, nothing that you cannot do and excel at 
10. Will ask you to decide, there will be crushing urgency brought in on a short notice, and you will be chased down desperately, and be gaslighted into believing that this is your chance for a higher calling, the path to enter the upper economic echelons 
11. If you pay, trap. -- you will have to do what they do to you to someone unassuming in your circle, that's the only way you ever get that investment back 

Well beware of hope salesman, they prey on your emotional insecurities and/or financial strength and make a fool out of you. 

TL;DR

MLM guys I met a few years ago, tried to dupe me into investing. they were IIT grads, mentioned an eCommerce business where I'd have to bring new clients, Couldnt answer my question on USP, business model and work conducted, raised a red flag. Tried to sell me hope, pushed me to decide, didnt give a fuck, went away. 

Wrote pointers on how to spot the discussion.