Members of the Jana Sena Party (JSP) of Andhra Pradesh have launched a campaign #MyDataMyPrivacy on Twitter after the party Chief Pawan Kalyan criticised the state government for collecting large amounts of citizen data through volunteers for ‘real-time governance’. Pawan Kalyan’s remarks in the past weeks have shed light on Andhra Pradesh’s volunteer-based system of governance, wherein door-to-door collection of data in the past decade has raised data privacy concerns among the state residents.

Speaking at a public rally on July 9, Kalyan launched a scathing attack on the data collection practices employed by the state government alleging that the volunteers were surveilling women, and the data was used to aid human trafficking in the state. While the State Women’s Commission issued a notice to the actor-politician, his allegations did trigger a debate about the risks to citizen’s personal data collected by local volunteers across the state.

What is the village volunteer system in Andhra Pradesh?

Andhra Pradesh is one of the earliest states to have developed a system for creating a 360-degree record of every citizen through the State’s e-Pragati project which is designed to provide real-time digital governance solutions. Started in 2014 during the Telugu Desam Party government, the ‘village volunteer’ system was continued by the current YSR Congress Party. According to a report by The Quint , there are about 2.5 lakh local volunteers, equipped with biometric devices and smartphones, who are responsible for carrying out Aadhaar-based eKYC of residents for providing welfare services to the households. Each volunteer is assigned a cluster of 50-70 households. The volunteers are in control of a large amount of personal data of every family member from these households and act as a link between the state’s welfare activities and the citizens.

Why it matters:

With the earliest undertakings to build a master database of residents with all kinds of demographic, social and economic details of every state citizen, Andhra Pradesh is one of the most surveilled states in the country. The concept of tasking local volunteers as a last-mile functionary of government projects and schemes has raised several questions about the manner in which personal data is being recorded, shared and processed. In this transaction of data, citizens have fewer avenues to verify the real identity of such volunteers or even to have complete information about how their data is being shared. Citizens are also faced with risks of data misuse and electoral engineering if their personal information fell into the hands of actors who would use it for vested interests, political or otherwise.

What are the questions raised?

On July 23, Kalyan tweeted an old video of CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in which he can be seen speaking against the volunteer system and raising concerns about the data being misused for conducting Aadhaar-related and electoral frauds, as an opposition member. The JSP chief has questioned the current government about the storage of such personal data.

“Everyone’s concern is the same .. my dear Watson! Data privacy laws will remain the same, whether you are CM or not. So answer these basic three questions. 1) Who’s the Boss of Volunteers? 2) Where are you storing the personal data of People of AP? 3) Who has authorised volunteers to collect people’s personal data, when they are not Govt employees?” Kalyan tweeted.

The JSP Chief has also alleged that the data collected by the volunteers is being handled by a Hyderabad-based private agency and has demanded a probe into the operations of the agency.

“Its safety is a matter of worry as the data involved details of Aadhaar cards, bank account numbers and family details. What is the guarantee that it would not land in the wrong hands,” Kalyan questioned Reddy at a public rally, according to a Deccan Chronicle report .

Kalyan has also demanded the Election Commission of India investigate the door-to-door survey carried out by volunteers and YSR Congress Party booth-level officers.

The Truest sense of upholding Democracy is to ensure Fairness & Transparency in the Entire Election Process starting from Preparation of Voter List to the Declaration of Result.

Despite Election Commission’s clear instructions, several Volunteers across AP are being part of the… pic.twitter.com/GBhHfF7IDh

— Pawan Kalyan (@PawanKalyan) July 22, 2023

Speaking with MediaNama, Kandul Durgesh, East Godavari District President of Jana Sena Party, stated that people are asked to disclose their personal information to volunteers, who are not designated by the government of AP and this is unlawful. He also raised apprehensions about the data being misused by volunteers and being transferred to external agencies for political gains by the ruling party.

“The personal information of a particular individual should not be disclosed to any outside person. These volunteers are not government-authorised workers, but political workers. They are being paid an honorarium of Rs 5000. This is what the CM as well as other ministers have also stated. Why should individuals provide their data to them and how is their data protected? What if it is misused? That’s the fundamental question…The welfare schemes are being used to gain confidence among the people and compel them to vote for YSRCP only. We are making people aware that their information must not be disclosed to any of the volunteers,” Durgesh said.

Data of Andhra residents has been compromised in the past:

In 2019, details of up to 4.5 crore residents of Andhra Pradesh , including their phone numbers, insurance status, and home addresses, were exposed on a State government portal. Researcher and data activist Srinivas Kodali, who first reported on the vulnerability, revealed that all the data collected under the state’s Praja Sadhikara Survey was available with an individual’s Aadhaar number on the portal. Praja Sadhikhara Survey or Smart Pulse Survey carried out in 2016 provides the government with an extensive database of socioeconomic and demographic data of citizens seeded with Aadhaar.

Additionally, in 2022, an AP House Committee report revealed that a large amount of sensitive data from the State Data Centre was transmitted to unidentified external servers between December 2018 and March 2019. The State Data Centre is a host to the state government’s servers and network devices with details of citizens used for governance purposes. For example, under the Smart Pulse Survey, the local volunteers collected various details of citizens including Aadhaar number, voter ID, ration card, electricity bill, driver’s license, vehicle registration details, bank account details, water bill, caste certificate, birth certificate, income details, etc. However, the report did not clarify what exact data was transferred from the state servers to the external servers.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event