Logistics provider Ecom Express filed its draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in August, seeking to raise Rs 2,600 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). This comprised a fresh issue of Rs 1284.5 crore in equity shares and an offer for sale of Rs 1315.5 crore worth of equity shares.

Eaglebay Investment Ltd will be offloading shares worth Rs 211.48 crore, followed by the PG Esmeralda group selling shares worth Rs 931.39 crore, and British Investment plc selling shares worth Rs 136.97 crore, among others.

This is Ecom Express’ second attempt at a public listing, following its approval of a Rs 4,860 crore IPO in February 2022, which was later paused, Entackr reported .

Founded in 2012 , Ecom Express is a Business-to-Customer (B2C) e-commerce logistics provider, servicing over 27,000 pin codes in India. In 2018, the company expanded its delivery network from 17000 pin codes to over 25,000 pin codes to cater to rural customers. Its services include end-to-end logistics like reverse logistics, fulfilment services (warehousing), heavy B2C express shipments, modular solutions, and quick commerce solutions.

The company also incorporates automation and AI at various stages of its operation. For instance, it employs Bulls.ai, an AI-driven address correction platform that predicts if customers have entered the incorrect delivery location details, simultaneously correcting it. Additionally, automated sortation systems for processing, bagging, and weighing shipments are deployed in the company’s first-mile operations.

Ecom Express is a B2C e-commerce logistics provider, its revenue directly depends on the sustenance, growth, and profitability of e-commerce companies. However, any uncertainties within the industry like a change in macroeconomic conditions, decline in e-commerce spending during recessionary periods, emergence of alternative channels better suiting the needs of Indian customers, and change in the regulatory regime of e-commerce industries could severely impact the company’s operations. As stated by the company, such factors are beyond their control.

Firstly, since the company’s shipments are outsourced to third-party transportation providers, issues relating to timely delivery, protection, and inspection may crop up with shipments being delayed, lost, stolen, damaged, etc. The company reports that it suffered a loss of Rs 92.4 crore in damaged shipments in the last financial year, up from Rs 84.6 crore in FY 2022-23.

Additionally, Ecom Express relies on third parties like employees on contract, gig workers, and technology vendors, among others. The company states that during March 2024, it utilised the services of 22,555 off-roll employees on a contractual basis and over 32,000 gig workers. In doing so, the company runs the risk of gig workers failing to operate per its policies and engaging in unprofessional conduct such as theft or other fraudulent activities.

Besides this, heavy reliance on third-party transportation providers may restrict its ability to scale business during peak seasons, when trucks and manpower are in high demand and ultimately short supply. To counter the shortage during peak season, the company may also have to pay higher prices to associated third parties, leading to potentially lower profitability.

Ecom Express operates in a highly competitive industry amid rivals like Delhivery, Bluedart, and Shadowfax, among others. If the company fails to control costs effectively, it could forfeit customers, leading to a decline in market share and revenue. Furthermore, when a competitor offers a rate reduction, it would limit Ecom Express’ capability to alter its rates, thereby affecting the company’s growth potential. Finally, competitors could also potentially adopt more aggressive pricing policies and allocate greater resources for marketing and promotion, resulting in a downside for Ecom Express.

Ecom Express deploys technology at every step of its operation, from managing inventory to recording cash payments. The company acknowledges that its reliance on third parties for data storage may run into potential vulnerabilities like system inadequacies, hardware failures, cyberattacks, or security breaches. Any such breaches could lead to sensitive data leaks like confidential customer data, payment information (debit or credit card data), etc.

Potential service disruptions at Ecom Express’ logistics facilities, like the failure of automated facilities or equipment, other technological issues, prolonged power outages, etc., will adversely impact its business. Such obstructions may delay or suspend shipment pickups, processing, and deliveries.

The company claims that seasonality heavily impacts its quarter-to-quarter shipment volumes, which typically surge during Diwali and other festivals when e-commerce players hold special promotional campaigns. Seasonality also complicates the process of forecasting demand for services.

In September, Ecom Express’ rival Delhivery alleged that the IPO-bound company used misleading numbers in its DRHP, Moneycontrol reported . This comprised misrepresentation of the two companies’ shipment volumes, profitability, and capacity metrics.

Note: The 4th, 7th and 8th paragraphs were edited based on editorial inputs on 12/12/2024 at 05/25 pm.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event