SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Beware of scammers who call you to collect for free gifts
DATE: 2017-11-18
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7drw2r/beware_of_scammers_who_call_you_to_collect_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

(This is from a throwaway account.) 
I wanted to share my recent experience at Hyderabad about one firm XXX Infra &amp; Services, which is into holiday packages. 

The whole episode starts with collecting your phone number from any of the major shopping malls and gets duly distributed to some agents. The agents call you up everyday and mention that you have won a lucky draw and you have to collect your gifts and they mention that there is no other hidden agenda apart from collection of gifts. If you don't visit, they keep bugging you until you would feel that there is no harm is just collecting some free stuff. 

Finally you decide to get some free stuff at their office (deliberately ignoring the fact that there are no free lunches). Once you reach, there are couple of guys at the reception who keenly observe you and politely ask you to switch off your mobile and listen to a pitch from one of their sales reps in a closed room. They disclose that it pitch regarding their firm and special offer/package they have for you and keep insisting that there is no obligation to signup or pay anything. 

And one more important thing is that they insisting on bringing your spouse to the venue. Once the pitch starts, they try to connect with spouse and try to get friendly and say good things to her. I am still suspicious about this whole thing which seems too good to be true; promises of dream vacation, airport pickup/drops, complimentary food, guided tours and what not. Wify impressed and is imagining trip to the promised dreamland. And I keep interrupt and ask about the firm and their track record and blah blah.. They say that they have tie-up with DAE holidays and show pics of some fancy international holidays destinations from that booklet and say that we can visit there too with their package. They talk about one of their customers going recently to Ireland and show some pics/emails regarding their trip/booking details.

Hmm.. so we seem to agree that it is what we had always wanted to do (holiday at those dream foreign locations) but could not do so far. They senior agent/manager (as per agent) pays a visit and starts telling about the pricing options. But the discussion suddenly switches to a complementary plot along with the holiday package. I had already read about this n number of times (wify did not). Wify always wanted to have some land investment and this is getting too good to be true. The sales guy says how their land is going to be a prime area and is getting sold fast. They offer free site visit, EMI options, etc. I, for sure know that holiday package and plot sales are two different things and interrupt them saying that I would probably be interested only in the holiday package. 

Then the discussion goes ahead with the holiday package only and I said that I cannot trust them/company with my investment for 10 year holiday package. They say that none of the companies can guarantee in written but say that one has to first trust them and experience their holiday package before reaching a negative opinion. It did not make sense to me but I agreed to trust. Then they offer discount for the one time payment option and top it off with 5 gm gold coin exclusively for wify. Check-mate! I sign up and agree to pay and at the back of mind convince myself to do more research about this firm after reaching home. There is an obligatory ringing of bells and an anonouncement that my family has just now a member of xxxx and all other agents start clapping and joined by other families too. Then they duely ask us to pose for a photo and handover our promised gifts (which turned out to be average/low quality kitchen/dining sets )

After reaching home, I didn't see much information about that firm and start researching about holiday packages in general and understand the concept of time share/exchanges. Only then I realize that I have been duped into paying excess amount compared to similar packages offered by other more reliable/branded peers and the idea of time share has so many caveats to it (you may have to pay extra charges if you go on a vacation). 

I immediately explained this to my wife and emailed the firm to cancel my membership with the reason explaining that I am in urgent need of money. They contacted multiple times to reconsider my decision but I stayed put and asked them to process ASAP. Finally they obliged to refund the amount after deducting some cancellation/processing fee. I am yet to recieve my refund check :(.

I feel sorry for people who are lured by these free gifts and don't really know what they are signing up to and where they are going to end up with this scam. I saw mostly middle class or lower middle class families who don't have any idea regarding the vacation/timeshare industry.

Please share with you family and friends and help spread awareness.

TLDR; Don't attend any calls who promise free gifts. If you do, just take the gifts and head back home. If planning for vacation look for retail packages for trust-worthy vendors.