1.Vide this petition, order impugned is dated 02.09.2015 vide which
 the Ld. trial court ordered for framing of charge under Section 120-B
 read with Section 381 IPC and Section 65 & 66 I.T. Act, 2000 against
 both the petitioners. Accordingly, charge was given to both
 petitioners and substantive charge for offence under Section 381 IPC and 65 & 66 I.T. Act 2000 was framed against petitioner no.1. 2.Brief facts of the prosecution case are that charge sheet was fled CR No 44/2016 Niraj Dhar Dubey & anr. Vs. CBI Page 1 of 9 against both the petitioners by CBI under Section 65 & 43 I.T. Act
 and Section 120-B read with Section 381 IPC. The FIR is on the
 basis of complaint made by M/s AKS Software Ltd. which is a
 company duly incorporated in India having its office at A-1/169,
 Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi and is engaged in the business of
 Agriculture Management Software. The complainant had developed
 this software known as AMS (Agriculture Management Software).
 The complainant company has also developed three other software,
 being "CCS Project" software, "Web-based Reports Project" software
 and "Smart Weighment Project" software. All these software and
 their source codes have been developed by the complainant
 company. Source codes of the above mentioned four software of the
 complainant company consists of listing of programs, computer
 commands, design and layout and programme analysis of computer
 resources in any form. In complainant's business source code of
 software is considered very precious and that is the main "assets"
 any software company creates. This source code is not passed on
 to customers, they are only licenced to use the executable programs
 and therefore cannot make any change in the software provided to
 them and software remains property of the company. 3.The aforesaid software and their source codes are the original,
 literary works of the complainant company within the meaning of Copyright Act . These softwares are extremely expensive and has
 taken more than two decades of man hours. The market value of said
 source code runs into crores of rupees. On 1.10.2007, petitioner no.1
 was recruited in the complainant company as Senior Software
 Engineer and he was trained by the company to work on AMS
 software project. He remained employed in the company for more CR No 44/2016 Niraj Dhar Dubey & anr. Vs. CBI Page 2 of 9 than 2 years and then resigned from service. He was relieved from
 the service on 16.12.2009. During the service, petitioner no.1 has
 worked on AMS software projects of complainant's important
 customers, namely Mumias Sugar Company Ltd., Kenya and Kakira
 Sugars Works (1985) Ltd., Uganda. Petitioner no.1 had officially
 visited sites at Uganda and Kenya for implementation and support
 work of these projects. 4.The source code lies on server computer in the company office
 which allows senior employees of the company like petitioner no.1
 privilege of access the source code of AMS software, CCS project,
 Smart Weighment and Web-based Report projects. Recently,
 company was going through its electronic records and logs and has
 discovered that before leaving the complainant company, petitioner
 no.1 has dishonestly and intentionally stolen source code of AMS for
 Kakira Sugar Project by coping it from the complainant company
 server kept in the premises of the company and this was done with
 malafide intention without knowledge and authority of his superior.
 On examination of the computer that was handed over to petitioner,
 while in employment of the company, it was discovered that he has
 copied CCS project software source code on his laptop from the
 complainant company server on 23.9.2009. He copied Web-based
 Reports Project on 9.11.2009. He e-mailed technical documents of
 Kakira Project to his personal e-mail ID on 23.9.2009 and 26.9.2009
 and 16.11.2009. As per Company rules, employees are supposed to
 use official e-mail ID for official purpose and they are not allowed to
 use personal ID, since company has no control over those e-mails.
 The Smart Weighment Project software (Kakira version) source code
 was found on the laptop of the petitioner. The company had found CR No 44/2016 Niraj Dhar Dubey & anr. Vs. CBI Page 3 of 9 that petitioner no.1 had undertaken employment at Software
 Applications Ltd. Kampala (Uganda), the sister concern of Kakira
 Sugars Works (1985) Ltd. Uganda which is under the direct control
 of the same management. Petitioner no.1 had passed on this source
 to his present employer and/or M/s Kakira Sugar Works (1985) Ltd.
 for vested reasons. He was also assisted by his customer and
 Nilesh Dhar Dubey, i.e. petitioner no.2, who is a software
 professional and is well familiar with all nuances and aspects
 pertaining to source code software. This software has been stolen
 with meticulous planning by petitioner no.1. along with his
 brother,i.e. petitioner no.2 and with complainant's customer company
 M/s Kakira Surgar Works (1985) Ltd., Uganda. Since they have
 secured source code of AMS, they do not have to pay the company
 for making changes in the software and can also use it for their other
 sugar factories. Petitioner no.1 has been rewarded for stealing the
 source code in the form of lucrative employment in Uganda by
 Kakira management in their software company. Both petitioners
 have leaked confidential data and information to M/s Kakira Sugar
 Works, Uganda. 5.After registration of the FIR, it was reveled that petitioner no.1 was
 leaving the country to Uganda on 11.4.2010 via Mumbai and he was
 apprehended from the IGI Airport. From his possession source code
 of AMS in the form of CD for Kakira Project and Kakira database in
 the form of another CD were recovered. His personal laptop was
 also taken in possession. 6.As per CFSL report 2 CDs which were seized from petitioner no.1
 were found to contain all the important files of the source code of
 Agricultural Management System as well as data base file of AMS CR No 44/2016 Niraj Dhar Dubey & anr. Vs. CBI Page 4 of 9 Project, Kakira AMS-DB.xis. The CFSL report also establish that
 laptop seized from the possession of petitioner no.1 contain all the
 important file of server code of software AMS, Smart Weight Project,
 CCS Project and Web Based Project Report. The Pen drive that
 was seized from personal possession of petitioner no.1 contained
 important files of the source code AMS. 7.Heard arguments of Sh. Sudhanshu Tomar, Ld. counsel for
 petitioners and Sh. Anil Tanwar, Ld. PP for CBI. Perused the record. 8.Sh. Sudhanshu Tomar, Ld. counsel for petitioner has submitted
 that Ld. trial court has failed to appreciate that I.T. Act is a special
 provision to deal with the cases and offences and the alleged
 allegations in the present FIR are fully covered under the said Act.
 Ld. trial court has failed to appreciate that the alleged offences are
 under special provisions and no charge can be framed under
 general provisions. It has been stated that the Ld. trial court erred in
 charging the petitioners under Section 381 IPC. It has been state
 that source code is intangible property but as per Section 378 IPC
 which defines theft, only movable property can be subject matter of
 theft. It has been stated that Section 43 (j) of I. T. Act covers such
 offences as alleged by the prosecution against the petitioners. It has
 been sated that Ld. trial court failed to appreciate that all the
 allegations are against the company, i.e. Kakira Sugar Works Ltd.,
 the company doing business in Uganda and respondent is doing
 further investigation against this company. In support of his
 submissions, Ld. counsel for appellant has relied upon the following
 judgments:- 9.On the other hand, Ld. PP for CBI has submitted that source code
 is a property, hence, offence alleged gets duly covered under Section
 381 IPC. It has been stated that under Section 220(3) Cr.P.C. if act
 alleged constitute an offence falling within two or more separate
 definitions of any law, then accused may be charged with and tried
 at one trial for each such offences. In support of his submissions, Ld.
 PP has relied upon Pyare Lal Bhargava Vs. State of Rajasthan [1963 AIR 1094]. 10.One of the main contention raised by Ld. counsel for petitioners
 is that ingredients of offence under Section 381 IPC are not there, as
 per allegations made in the charge sheet, hence, Ld. trial court erred
 in framing charge under Section 381 IPC. 11. Section 378 IPC defines theft as follows:- 12. Section 22 IPC defines movable property as follows:- 13. As per allegations against petitioner no.1, he has stolen source
 codes of AMS for Kakira Sugar Project and other source codes by
 copying it from the server of the complainant company kept in the
 premises of complainant company without knowledge or authority of
 the superiors. 14.Ld. PP for CBI has submitted that intention of petitioner no.1 was
 to cause wrongful gain for himself and wrongful loss to the
 complainant company by wrongfully copying the source code from
 the server of the company and he has moved the valuable property
 of the company. To support his submissions, Ld. PP for CBI has
 relied upon observations made by Apex Court in Pyare Lal (supra). In this case accused was working as Superintendent in the Chief
 Engineer's office, got a file removed from the Secretariat through a
 clerk, took it home and made it available to his friend, the co- accused, who removed certain documents by substituting others and
 accused returned the file to the office next day. Subject matter of
 theft in this case was file which was movable tangible property,
 hence, facts of this case are distinguishable from the facts of the
 present case. Moreover, Section 43(j) of I.T Act, 2000, specifically
 deals with the allegations of stealing of source code. 15.There is no doubt, as provided under Section 220(3) Cr.P.C., if
 act alleged constitute an offence falling within two or more separate
 definitions of any law in force for the time being, accused may be
 charged for each such offences. But in addition to charging the
 accused for the offence under Section 43(j) of I.T Act, 2000, the
 necessary ingredients of Section 381 IPC should have to be there. 16.As already discussed, copying of the source code from the server
 of the company, not being a movable property, does not fall under
 the definition of theft as defined under Section 378 IPC. Therefore,
 accused are discharged for the offence under Section 381 IPC. 17.The other contention raised by Ld. counsel for the petitioners is
 that there is absolutely no evidence against petitioner no. 2 and he
 has been wrongly charged. 18.As per the prosecution case, there is recovery of 2 CDs from
 possession of petitioner no.1 when he was apprehended at Bombay
 Airport. On these CDs writing "Kakira AMS latest 31.8.09" and
 "Kakira DB 31.8.09" is in the handwriting of petitioner no.2. The
 CFSL report establish this fact. There is evidence as per recovery
 memo dated 12.4.2010 that petitioner no.1 has received E-mail from
 petitioner no.2 explaining him the commands required for copying
 the source code. As per search list (D-46), there is recovery of one
 Laptop make HP Compaq and one pen drive make Kingston 4 GB CR No 44/2016 Niraj Dhar Dubey & anr. Vs. CBI Page 8 of 9 from the bedroom of petitioner no. 2 As per the CFSL report (D-51)
 the source codes were found on the laptop and pen driver recovered
 from the bed room of petitioner no.2. 19.The law is settled that at the time of framing of charge, the court
 has to sift and weight the evidence for the limited purpose of finding
 out whether or not a prima facie case against accused has been
 made out. Reliance is placed on Union of India Vs. Prafulla Kumar [AIR 1979 SC 366]. 20.In view of the aforesaid reasons, it is held that the Ld. trial court
 fell in error by giving charge to petitioner no.1 under Section 381 IPC
 as substantive offence and to petitioner no.2 as one of the offence in
 criminal conspiracy under Section 120-B / 381 IPC. However, no fault
 is found in the remaining order and the same is, accordingly upheld.
 The revision petition is, accordingly partly accepted. 21. Copy of this order along with TCR be sent back to the Ld. Trial
 Court. 22. File of the revision petition be consigned to Record Room.