------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Hon'ble Shri Justice Arvind Singh Chandel

 C.A.V. ORDER 1. This revision has been preferred by the husband against the order

 dated 6.6.2015 passed by the Family Court, Durg in M.Cr.C.

 No.419 of 2014, whereby the Family Court has allowed the

 application under Section 125 Cr.P.C. moved by the

 Respondent/wife and granted her monthly maintenance of

 Rs.10,000/-. 2. Facts of the case, in short, are that marriage between the parties

 was solemnised at Bhilai on 11.10.2011. The Respondent/wife

 filed an application under Section 125 Cr.P.C. with averments that

 after the marriage she came to the house of the Applicant/husband

 on 13.10.2011. It was alleged by the wife that in the very first night 2 after her marriage, the husband prepared her nude video and

started her blackmailing by saying that he will upload the same on

internet. It was also alleged that the husband and his family

members tortured her for demand of dowry. It was pleaded by the

wife that the husband had illicit relationship with her jethani (sister-

in-law). It was further pleaded by the wife that the husband left her

at his house since July, 2012 and he started residing separately.

On 8.10.2012, she made a complaint in his office and asked him to

live with her, but he refused. Finally, on 12.10.2012, he expelled

her out of his house after beating her. Thereafter, she lodged a

report in police station on the basis of which a case under Section

498A IPC is pending against him and his family members. She is

unable to maintain herself. The husband works in Indian Railways

as a Controller and gets monthly salary of Rs.70,000/-. In his reply,

the Applicant/husband pleaded that in the first night itself after the

marriage, the wife told him that she has a love affair with someone,

her marriage with the Applicant was performed by her parents

against her will and she does not like the Applicant. It was further

pleaded by the Applicant that the wife also refused him to make

physical relationship with her. No physical relationship has taken

place between them. Since she has a love affair with someone

and does not want to live with him, she started levelling false

allegations against him and his family members. She had also

come to his office and created hindrance in his official work. She is

mentally torturing him. She has also levelled a false allegation on

his character. On the ground of cruelty by the wife, he preferred an

application for divorce. Thereafter, the wife lodged a false report of

demand of dowry. Since the wife is residing separately at her own

will, she is not entitled to get any maintenance. 3 3. After recording evidence of both the parties and hearing arguments

 on their behalf, the Family Court, vide the impugned order dated

 6.6.2015, allowed the application of the wife and granted her

 monthly maintenance of Rs.10,000/-. Hence, this revision by the

 husband. 4. Learned Counsel appearing for the Applicant/husband submitted

 that before the Family Court, father of the Respondent/wife himself

 has admitted the fact that in the very first night after the marriage,

 the Respondent/wife had told the Applicant/husband that she has a

 love affair with someone and she does not like the

 Applicant/husband. But, this fact has not been considered by the

 Family Court. It was further argued that the Family Court has also

 ignored the fact that first the husband filed an application for

 divorce on the ground of cruelty by the wife and thereafter the wife

 lodged the false report for offence under Section 498A IPC against

 the Applicant and his family members. It was also submitted that

 before the Family Court, the husband has categorically stated that

 his bhabhi (sister-in-law) is like his mother and after death of his

 mother she has nurtured him like her son and she is residing with

 his husband in other village at a distance of 40 kms. away from

 him. Therefore, the Family Court ought to have considered that the

 allegation on the character of the Applicant was false. Since the

 Respondent/wife has a love affair with someone, she does not like

 the Applicant/husband and she herself is residing separately from

 the Applicant at her own will, she is not entitled to get any

 maintenance. 5. None appeared for the Respondent/wife even when the matter was

 called out for hearing twice. 6. I have heard Learned Counsel appearing for the Applicant/husband

 and perused the record with due care. 7. It is not in dispute that marriage between the Applicant and the

 Respondent was solemnised on 11.10.2011 and the

 Respondent/wife is residing separately from the Applicant/husband

 since 12.10.2012. Before the Family Court, the wife examined

 herself and her father Y. Rama Rao. The husband examined

 himself and one C.H. Shriniwas in his favour. Both the husband

 and the wife deposed before the Family Court commensurate to

 their pleadings. Though the wife denied the suggestion about

 telling of her love affair with someone to the husband in the very

 first night after the marriage and her not liking to the husband, her

 father, during his cross-examination, in paragraph 3, has

 categorically admitted that it is true that his daughter/Respondent,

 in the very first night after her marriage, told her husband/Applicant

 that she has a love affair with someone and she does not like him.

 The wife has deposed before the Family Court that in the said first

 night, the husband prepared her nude video and threatened her

 that he will upload the same on internet. She has also deposed

 that after 3 days of the marriage, the husband asked her to put her

 signature on a blank paper telling her that he wants to give her

 divorce. These statements of the wife do not appear to be natural.

 It cannot be natural and reliable that a husband will prepare nude

 video of his wife in the very first night after the marriage and just

 after 3 days of the marriage he will ask her to sign a blank paper

 for giving her divorce. 8. The wife has also deposed before the Family Court that in the

 month of March, 2012, father of the Applicant and other family 5 members did not give her food for 12 days. She has also deposed

 that the Applicant/husband has an illicit relationship with her jethani

 (bhabhi/sister-in-law of the Applicant) and after returning from the

 office he directly used to go to the room of her jethani. Contrary to

 this, the Applicant/husband has deposed that from 2007 to 2012,

 his brother and sister-in-law were living in other village Subbvaram

 at a distance of 40 kms. away from him and presently they are

 residing away from him at a distance of 17 kms. The husband has

 also deposed that at his house, only 3 members, i.e., he, his wife

 and his father were residing. C.H. Shriniwas, witness of the

 Applicant/husband, has also supported the above statements of

 the Applicant. The above statements of both these witnesses have

 not been rebutted during their cross-examination. Thus, it is also

 clear that the brother and sister-in-law of the Applicant were

 residing away from the Applicant in a different village since

 beginning and at the house of the Applicant, only the Applicant, his

 wife/Respondent and his father were residing. Therefore, the

 allegations of the wife that she was not given food for 12 days, the

 husband had illicit relationship with his sister-in-law and after his

 return from the office he directly used to go to the room of his

 sister-in-law do not appear to be reliable. 9. From the evidence on record, it is also clear that first the husband

 filed an application for divorce on the ground of cruelty by the wife

 and thereafter the report for demand of dowry was lodged by the

 wife. As pleaded and stated by the wife, she is residing separately

 from the husband since 12.10.2012. The written complaint

 (Ex.P1C) was filed by the wife in the police station on 12.1.2013.

 First Information Report (Ex.P2) was lodged on 13.3.2013 on the 6 basis of which offence under Section 498A IPC was registered.

 When the wife was expelled out of the house of the husband on

 12.10.2012 then why did she lodge the FIR for demand of dowry 5

 months thereafter, has not been explained by her. Thus, the FIR of

 the wife lodged for offence under Section 498A IPC appears to be

 an after-thought. 10. From the evidence on record and the above discussion, it is clear

 that father of the wife/Respondent has admitted before the Family

 Court that in the very first night after the marriage, his

 daughter/Respondent had told her husband/Applicant that she has

 a love affair with someone and she does not like the Applicant. It is

 also not reliable that in the said very first night the husband would

 have prepared nude video of the wife and after 3 days of the

 marriage he would have asked her to sign a blank paper for giving

 her divorce. In March, 2012, she was not given food for 12 days,

 this statement of the wife is also not reliable. From the evidence

 on record, it is also established that the elder brother and sister-in-

 law of the Applicant were earlier residing in other village

 Subbvaram at a distance of 40 kms. away from the Applicant and

 thereafter they were residing in village Pendurti at a distance of 17

 kms. away from the Applicant. Therefore, the allegation of the wife

 that the husband had illicit relationship with his sister-in-law and

 after return from his office he directly used to go to the room of the

 sister-in-law is false. 11. Considering the above facts and the evidence available on record,

 it is established that the Respondent/wife is residing separately

 from the Applicant/husband at her own will without any reasonable

 cause. Therefore, the wife is not entitled to get any maintenance 7 from the husband. The finding of the Family Court is contrary to

 the evidence on record and law and, therefore, the same is set

 aside. 12. Consequently, the instant revision is allowed. 13. Record of the Court below be sent back along with a copy of this

 order forthwith for information and necessary compliance. Sd/- (Arvind Singh Chandel)
 JUDGE
Gopal