Its time to realize truth of corrupt people spoiling their company name Our whistle blowing which would provide you more information on corrupt measures 1) whole world knows about ex security manager nitika jain and her cartels with which pvtc centers which are allotted on preferential basis and run for kick backs and promoting proxy exams. 2) surprisingly daksh katru even after 10 years is retaining complete control on site allocation by carefully seeding his sidekicks in different critical functions of pearson vue security and quality teams. Following persons are part of his unethical cartel inside pearson vue, all have either worked under daksh and owe him their career some of daksh side kicks have also got their cousins, wifes, sister in law inside the company with malise intent. His gang includes anish sen - security head, manish sharma - operations head, rajiv kapur - select pvtc manager, rahul yadav - quality head (Cousin brother of jagdish who is very close to daksh heart), nitika jain - temp made permenant under his orders to anish, krishan - security head (Rahul yadav's close hand inglove) 3) same team maintains security too they claim to blacklist any site caught cheating and even bost to maintain historic records but proxy centers are guide by nitika and centers allotted on payment of kickbacks to this gang. This team is very busy collecting agent informations and nitika reaches out to them for working together. If some one does not join them they blacklist them. Since this team completely survives in kickback generated from small mom and pop shops they create artificial barriers for big companies, institutes making them loose interest and only allow sites paying them toll fee to become active. 4) when some genuine employees in vss try to raise voice again their malpractices. This cartel caught them terminated on false ground. People from training organizations tried to stand against this malpractice and not pay this team got them rejected and blacklisted. Such is power of this proxy security and quality cartel that even the legal team (Pearson vue equivalent of eunuch) is become helpless nothing happens and things remain on paper only. Why so because all investigations are also doing by anish team which given clean chits to his cartel members claiming every complain is false 5) its rumored that this cartel in now eyeing pearson owned centers business and selects is tightly controlled by gmat. Soon pearson owned centers will be new proxy hub as this allows full margins on kickback to this corrupt cartel 6) dig little dipper and you will find this corrupt cartel buying new houses, cars and living a lifestyle which even your directors cannot afford. Such is the control they are enrolling all their friends, relatives, spouses of jobs in pearson owned centers and security and quality functions to ensure continuous flow of kickbacks. Daksh team is already looting vue with overtime and fake conveyance bill now they started pimping select site business too Unless serious action is taken vue would be losing its credibility and in 2 years all your client would be lost. This mail is not intended to defame any body. But to open your eyes to reality and help you stop the rot before it goes deep Your sincerely Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)