SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How is it possible for my [29M] (Indian)parents to have such opposing schools of thought? Scientific day-job v.s. Religious outlook; Sending child abroad to pursue education v.s. Expecting him to come home when finished; Wanting child to live a happy married life v.s. no freedom in choosing partner
DATE: 2019-12-30
SCORE: 92
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/ehlq3z/how_is_it_possible_for_my_29m_indianparents_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

I \[29M\] by no means want to disrespect my parents (if that came across from the title). They've done amazingly well for themselves as well as for me and my sibling. They're both medical doctors and have come from very humble beginnings. My childhood memories include a lot of coercion towards getting better grades with the belief that life gets easier with better grades (which I've found is true as an adult). Additionally, a lot of prayers and puja rituals for a better future (not sure about this one). I left my house when I was 18 years old to go to a completely new state to pursue my undergraduate in one of the top engineering institutes in the country. Here is where things changed.

Met people from almost all states of the country. Some were 12th board toppers and some didn't do well in school but had put in whatever they had into entrance exam preps to get here, essentially most of them, extremely smart. My religious beliefs were challenged here. After 2 years of denial and not being able to defend religion in front of my peers, I started questioning my own upbringing. Realized at 20 that maybe my own beliefs were wrong. Took up questioning religion as a constant side thought. By 25, read books from multiple religions and non-religious spiritual books (e.g. Vivekananda), convinced that religion didn't make any sense. Shared my change in belief with Mum and Dad. Huge backlash. My engineering institute was labelled as blasphemy and my friends as good-for-nothing heretics. Tried for about a year for them to at-least consider my point of view. Emotional blackmail, dismissals and denials. Couldn't understand how two people who are masters of biology and human anatomy, save people's lives using that scientific knowledge can be so opposed to reconsidering religion. I'm sure that causes some sort of weird cognitive dissonance. How can one reconcile between two opposing ways of thinking? Stopped trying to convince them a year later, realizing nothing good was going to come off of it.

At 25, I had a good job, a relatively high salary in a big corporation, right out of college. Got bored of it after a couple of years and switched to medical research to get some fulfillment. Took a drastic pay cut. Wasn't too bothered as I craved some intellectual stimulation. Mum wasn't happy with the pay cut. Dad was cool. I was dating a girl outside my caste at that point, we had been friends since primary school. Mum disapproved of having a gf in general, especially because of the caste clash. Eventually the relationship didn't work out, for reasons not related to caste. The preference for a particular caste has been a huge thing in my family too. When I asked, the reason given to me was "our caste is superior". I've a feeling all castes think similarly. Simultaneously, there was pressure from family to pursue higher education. I already had an undergraduate in electronics and a masters in physics by that point. Applied for PhD anyway. Got into a good university abroad.

Currently in my final year of PhD in a STEM field. Major transformation in perspective happened when I came to this western country. PhD has had its ups and downs, but overall going well. Towards end of first year, met a western girl born and brought in the city I'm in. Her persona was completely opposite to mine. She was extremely active, very opinionated and headstrong. I, on the other hand, was a typical studious, happy-go-lucky, relatively passive, nice guy. I was very fascinated by her. Took her and her sister on a month-long backpacking tour of India to show its beauty. Was the first trip I made in life which was not arranged by my parents and I had my own freedom, in addition to having the responsibility of two people who had never visited the country. I assumed everything was going to go well. However, the fiery, passionate start quickly led to verbal and then physical abuse after the India trip, when I couldn't provide her what she wanted. At its worst, I knelt down on a street outside her house asking for forgiveness from her, a year after we had started dating. I shudder at that memory now. That coupled with my failing PhD because of lack of my attention to it, made me develop extreme anxiety, depression and self-hatred. Broken down, I broke it off about a year ago. I reached out to family for help, told them everything that was important (didn't tell them the gory details of physical abuse and kneeling down) and exposed how bad I was feeling. As a response, I was accused of getting romantically involved with a 'white girl', was asked to focus on my PhD and come back to India after my studies are done. When I mentioned that their reaction wasn't helping and I was feeling genuinely down and low, Mum suggested I pray and ask for forgiveness from divinity. I mentioned again that I didn't believe in the supernatural, yet she persisted. I was shocked at this reaction, but I was willing to try anything. I prayed everyday out of desperation, but kept feeling worse, now, with the additional judgment of feeling like a fraud for praying as a non-believer. A couple of weeks later, I told her I was still feeling bad and all my praying didn't help. She retorted saying prayer was not a magic spell that'll work right away, that I needed to persist. I knew there was no point arguing. I really needed their help then. The only helpful suggestion given was to avoid 'that white girl'. Sigh. Finally, stopped praying, booked an appointment with a psychiatrist. Diagnosed with anxiety. 7 months of mental health issues, self-hatred and helplessness. To make it worse, ex-gf got involved with someone else and when it didn't work out with him, came back to me. In my desperate need to connect with someone, anyone, I took her back, realized this was a toxic mistake and broke it off again in a couple of months. Was contemplating the worst at a point.

Started reconnecting with friends, going to the gym and generally just trying to live. In my attempt to reconnect with people around me, started talking to someone whom I had known for years, but never got the chance to connect with her properly. Was pleasantly surprised at her empathy and understanding when I poured everything out. We started hanging out. After a while, I started feeling better, knowing she had a lot of input in it. As I recovered, was very taken by how much she's done for me. Knew that I needed her in my life, not just as a friend. Currently celebrating 5 months of relationship at end of 2019. She's the most understanding and compatible person I've ever met. Extremely smart and attractive. We have moved in together. Introduced her to mum initially as a 'friend'. Mum asked me to keep my distance from her, as she's a 'white girl'. I stood up to mum for the first time in my life and asked her to back off. Spent the last 2 months slowly introducing her to the idea of having a white daughter-in-law. High resistance from the other side. But after everything I've gone through and the way my gf has picked me up and given my identity back to me, losing her not an option. Mum has been pestering me about arranged marriage. Can't believe that she would rather me be with a stranger than the one I know is good for me and will make me happy. I've learnt the lesson of how I judge myself when I don't stand up to myself. Not gonna repeat the same mistake again. At 29, I'm just about beginning to realize how weak and a pushover I have been.

I love my parents and really want them to be happy. I'm extremely grateful for what they done for me. But I want them to be happy for me too. I'm not sure I'm willing to compromise my own happiness, possibly for the rest of my life, to make them happy because of their archaic and illogical belief system. I cannot go through another bout of depression and anxiety again. I'm sticking to what I know makes me happy. I'm almost done with my PhD and will venture out into the world. I want to do it on my terms now.

Rant over. Any thoughts, comments, criticisms, insults and support appreciated. Also, is this a general case across Indian parents?

TL-DR; As a 20 year old, I started having conflicts with family about religion, potential partners. At 29 now, realized I've been weak and a pushover most of my life, don't want to feel like this anymore. Taking a stand now. Is this a general theme across Indian parents? Any support appreciated.