% 15.02.2019
 CM APPL. No. 7039/2019 (for interim relief)
 On 16.01.2019 notice was issued in this petition; and pleadings
 were directed to be completed. On 04.02.2019 further time was given
 for compliance of the previous order and the matter was posted to
 03.04.2019. 2. In CM APPL. No. 1491/2019 seeking interim relief filed
 alongwith the petition, the petitioners had prayed as follows : At that time however no interim relief was granted. 3. By the present application, the petitioners contend that they
 have learned from a third party that the accounts of the petitioners
 with respondent No. 2/Bank have been classified as 'fraud' under
 circular dated 01.07.2016 issued by respondent No. 1/RBI, which
circular contains "Master Directions on Frauds --Classification and
Reporting by commercial banks and select FIs". It is further stated
that the said accounts have also been reported as 'fraud' in RBI's
Central Repository of Information on Large Credits (CRILC)
platform. The petitioners state that they were so informed by letter
dated 31.01.2019 received from IndusInd Bank Ltd., when the said
bank declined to open the petitioners' bank accounts stating that the
petitioners' accounts have been reported as 'fraud'. 4. Earlier each of the five petitioners had approached this court by
way of separate writ petitions being W.P.(C) Nos. 5461/2018,
5482/2018, 5492/2018, 5449/2018, 5491/2018 claiming relief against
the proceedings taken by respondent No. 2/Bank to declare the
petitioners as 'wilful defaulters' in accordance with the RBI's Master
Circular dated 01.07.2015; which petitions were disposed of by
separate orders, all dated 21.05.2018, made in each of the said cases,
setting aside order dated 10.08.2016 made by respondent No. 2
declaring the petitioners as 'wilful defaulters' on the ground that the
order contained no reasons and that the conclusions drawn had no
link with the material considered by respondent No. 2. By the said
orders dated 21.05.2018, respondent No. 2 was however given an
opportunity to re-consider the issue of declaring the petitioners as
'wilful defaulters', after granting a hearing to the petitioners and
passing speaking orders. 5. By order dated 21.05.2018 respondent No. 2 was granted eight
weeks' time to re-consider the matter of declaring the petitioners as
 'wilful defaulter'. Subsequently respondent No. 2 approached this
court in some cases seeking enlargement of time to comply with
orders dated 21.05.2018; which enlargement of time was granted; and
it is stated that the process of declaring the petitioners as 'wilful
defaulters' is still under way. Petitioners state that applications
seeking enlargement of time have been filed in all cases but all such
applications have not yet come-up before court ; in any case it is
accepted by respondent No. 2 that the proceedings for declaring the
petitioners as wilful defaulters are still pending with the bank in all
cases. 6. Mr. Dayan Krishnan, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
petitioners states that while the process for re-considering the issue of
declaring the petitioners as 'wilful defaulters' is still going on,
respondent No.2/Bank has proceeded to declare the petitioners'
accounts as 'fraud' under the RBI Circular dated 01.07.2016. 7. Mr. Krishnan submits that : firstly, RBI's Circular dated
01.07.2016 aforesaid deserves to be quashed inter alia for the reason
that it provides a mechanism whereby an account can be declared
'fraud' without following the principles of natural justice; and
furthermore, in the facts of this case, respondent No. 2 could not have
declared the petitioners' account as 'fraud' while the process for
reconsidering the issue of petitioners being declared wilful defaulters
was still underway. 8. Mr. Krishnan further submits that for each of the petitioners
there are forensic audit reports which exonerate the petitioners from
any wrongdoing. 9. The contentions and counter-contentions notwithstanding, in
my prima facie view there clearly appears to be something amiss
inasmuch as RBI's Master Directions dated 01.07.2016 relating to
classification and reporting of 'fraud' does not contain any provision
for issuance of show-cause notice or affording a hearing to the
affected party, even though a decision by a bank, whether taken
individually or collectively with other banks, to classify an account as
'fraud' is a significant administrative decision taken in the
commercial realm, having serious consequences for the account
holder. That is to say, while a bank may most certainly report
fraudulent transactions in an account to law enforcement agencies
under the criminal law regime without issuing a show cause notice or
hearing an affected party, but if an account is to be declared 'fraud'
by an administrative decision in the framework of civil law, such
action it appears on first principles, cannot be taken without giving to
the affected party an opportunity of hearing to show cause against it. 10. Upon a conspectus of the scheme established by the RBI, it
transpires that declaring an entity as 'wilful defaulter' is covered by
Circular dated 01.07.2015 issued by the RBI which defines 'wilful
default' under clause 2.1.3 as under : The identification of the wilful default should be
 made keeping in view the track record of the
 borrowers and should not be decided on the basis
 of isolated transactions/incidents. The default to
 be categorised as wilful must be intentional,
 deliberate and calculated." ; (Emphasis supplied)

 On the other hand classification of an account as 'fraud' is
covered by Master Directions on Frauds dated 01.07.2016 issued by
the RBI. Clause 2.2 of these directions, which defines and deals with
the classification of frauds recites as under : Notwithstanding the above, the following cases shall be
 treated as fraud and reported accordingly: 11. It is noteworthy that while the RBI circular dealing with 'wilful
defaulters' provides a mechanism whereby a hearing is given to the
affected party, no opportunity of hearing appears to be available in
the circular that deals with declaring an account as 'fraud', which
latter is a much more serious matter. 12. Issue notice on this application, returnable 26.04.2019. 13. Mr. Rajender Wali, learned counsel for respondent No. 2/Bank
appear on advance copy and accepts notice. 14. He contends that the matter of declaring an entity as 'wilful
defaulter' is different and distinct from that of declaring an account as
'fraud', the two matters are covered by different master circulars; and
the mechanisms therefor cannot be compared. Counsel for respondent
No. 2 draws attention to Clause 8.9.4 of RBI's Master Directions
dated 01.07.2016, which reads as under :- (Emphasis supplied) 15. Mr. Wali accordingly contends that there is no requirement of a
show cause notice or hearing before declaring an account as 'fraud' in
the afore-stated RBI Master Circular. 16. Considering the submissions made, I see merit in the
petitioners' contention that when the case of the petitioners being
declared wilful defaulters is still under consideration by respondent
No. 2, since the bank's earlier decision in that behalf was set-aside by
this court, the bank cannot straightaway declare the petitioners'
accounts as 'fraud' without so much as a show cause notice and
without giving a hearing. 17. To me it prima facie appears that declaring an account as
'fraud' would arise in a case of egregious default on the part of an
account holder, something more than the account holder being a
'wilful defaulter'. For an account to be declared as 'fraud' must entail
an element of criminality on the part of the account holder, which
ought to be inferred only on the basis of some substantial material
which must be put to the errant account holder; and after considering
any explanation such account holder has to offer; and not unilaterally
by a stroke of the pen. 18. Considering the past proceedings in this case, the hasty manner
in which the bank has proceeded to classify the petitioners' accounts
 as 'fraud' also appears to be an effort to over-reach the orders of this
court and nullify the pending process of declaring the petitioners
'wilful defaulters'. 19. In the circumstances, without prejudice to the rights and
contentions of the parties, all of which are kept open, it is directed
that respondent No. 2/bank shall not take any further steps or actions
prejudicial to the petitioners based upon the petitioners' account
being declared 'fraud' until the next date of hearing. 20. Let notice be issued to respondent No.1/RBI by all permissible
modes, returnable on the next date. 21. Let pleadings in the matter be completed and reply/ies be also
filed in this application within four weeks; rejoinder/s thereto if any,
be filed within three weeks of receiving the reply/ies. 22. Re-list on 26.04.2019. 23. The date of 03.04.2019 given earlier in the matter stands
cancelled. Dasti. ANUP JAIRAM BHAMBHANI, J
FEBRUARY 15, 2019
j