A total of 18,167 instances of QR code-based fraud worth Rs 22.22 crore have been reported this year till September 2024, said Pankaj Chaudhary, Minister of State for Finance, in a response to a Lok Sabha question on December 9, 2024.

He further stated that the government, as well as entities like the Reserve Bank of India and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), have taken initiatives from time to time to restrict the extent of such payment-related frauds.

Notably, last four years’ data indicate that the highest number of QR frauds (39,638) happened in FY2023-24, involving a loss of Rs 56.34 crore due to such incidents.

As part of his query, Dr. . D. Ravi Kumar asked the government:

In his written reply, the MoS Finance informed instances of increases in QR-based fraud and the related amount throughout the last few years as:

Government entities have engaged in efforts to curb QR code-based fraud, the MoS Finance stated, adding that these include device binding between the customer’s mobile number and the device, two-factor PIN authentication, limits on daily transactions and control on the types of use cases, etc.

“RBI and banks have also been taking up awareness campaigns through short SMS, radio campaign, publicity on prevention of ‘cyber-crime’ etc. A total of 317 Electronic Banking Awareness and Training (e-BAAT) programmes were conducted by regional offices of RBI across the country during 2023,” the Minister further added.

As per the response, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has also launched a National Cybercrime Reporting Portal , as well as a National Cybercrime Helpline Number (1930), apart from the Department of Telecommunications-facilitated DIP portal, and the Chakshu portal, which helps citizens report suspected fraud communication over calls, SMS or WhatsApp.

Earlier in 2022, the RBI warned the public to be aware of “unauthorized QR codes promising help in securing concessions or expediting responses from banks and financial service providers in any manner.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event