the suit. It was argued that Clauses 34 and 35 of the General Terms and

Conditions are severable in nature and unless there is a consensus ad

idem with regard to such severable parts of contract, the plaintiff cannot

be non-suited on the basis of forum selection clause. It was the lack of

mutuality which would not sustain a claim made by the defendant either

with regard to arbitrability or forum selection clause and in this respect

he relied upon AIR 1981 SC 2085 at page 2093 (Ramji Dayawala &

Sons (P.) Ltd. v. Invest import). It was submitted that the plaintiff was

appointed as a distributor in September, 1981. Pashupati Das & Sons

Pvt. Ltd. was a distributor of the defendant company for whole of West

Bengal and the said distributorship agreement was terminated by the

defendant on 26th November, 1980. There was written agreement

between the said company and the defendant. After termination of the
 said business, the said company faced labour trouble and the Limited

Company was not at all interested to start business but when the

defendant approached the plaintiff and requested him to take up

distributorship. The same was reconsidered and the plaintiff agreed to

start business under a new partnership. It was argued that the witness

on behalf of the plaintiff has categorically stated in his evidence that

there was no connection with the previous Limited Company and from

the very beginning of the business of the defendant Corporation, the

plaintiff did not sign any agreement with them. The understanding was

that though no agreement was signed, the defendant would pay the

overriding commission of the business as per their terms and conditions

and they had been paying commission from the year 1981-82 to 1988- 89. It was surprising that the defendant did not invoke the bank

guarantee furnished by the Limited Company during continuations of the

distributorship which course was open to the defendant before or after

termination of the agency for realization of its alleged due of

Rs.2,92,910.30/-. The defendant allowed the bank guarantee to lapse.

There was no understanding or agreement between the plaintiff and the

defendant that the plaintiff would assume any liability on account of

alleged dues owned from the Limited Company to the defendant. It was

submitted that when the identity of both the entities were known to the

defendant since inception and the defendant has dealt with the plaintiff

as an independent entity, the doctrine of corporate veil cannot be
 applied. The plaintiff and the Limited Company are two separate

entities and always treated to be so by the defendant. Accordingly, it is

argued that the plaintiff is not entitled to claim either a legal or an

equitable set off against the dues of the plaintiff. On the contrary,

relying upon the statements furnished by the defendant and the stand

taken by them in this proceeding, it would appear that the defendant

admitted the entire dues of the plaintiff and in view of such admission,

the plaintiff is entitled to a decree for the entire sum. Mr. Sinha relied

upon AIR 1977 SC 1724 ( Thiru John V. Subramhamanyan Vs. The

Returning Officer & Ors. ) to remind this Court of the well-settled

proposition that an admission if clearly made is the best evidence against

the party making it and though not conclusive, shifts the onus on to the

maker on the principle that "what a party himself admits to be true may

reasonably be presumed to be so and until the presumption is rebutted

the fact admitted must be taken to be established." Mr. Sinha contended that it is well-settled that there cannot be

admission and avoidance at the same time. They cannot co-exist nor

they should be permitted. The defendant while accepting that a sum

little over Rs.500000/- is due and payable by the defendant to the

plaintiff with a mala fide and fraudulent intention raised a stale demand

it alleged to have against the Limited Company in order to deny the

legitimate dues of the plaintiff. The parties with their eyes wide open

have entered into an arrangement and have conducted themselves in
 terms of the said arrangement and at this stage the said plea of set off

was raised without any basis and with the sole intention of denying its

liability. On the issue raised with regard to Exhibit 10, namely, the terms

and conditions for distributors, it was argued that the said document

was tendered in evidence by the defendant during the examination-in-

chief of the witness and Exhibit 10 was never put to the witnesses of the

plaintiff during cross-examination and not even it was suggested during

the cross-examination that the plaintiff was appointed on the basis of

Exhibit 10 and, accordingly, it was not open to the defendant to argue

that the said Exhibit 10 forms the basis of the agreement under which

the plaintiff was appointed as a distributor. The learned Counsel has

referred to the clear enunciation of law in this regard in the famous

Carapiet's case reported in AIR 1961 Cal 359 ( A.E.G. Carapiet v. A.Y.

Derderian ) where the Hon'ble Division Bench held that the Counsel is

bound to do when cross-examining that he must put to each of his

opponent's witnesses in turn, so much of his own case as concerns that

particular witness or in which the witness had any share. After the commencement of the trial on 15th December, 2004 the

following issues were framed for consideration and disposal of the suit:- During argument issue nos. 1 and 3 were not pressed. Let me now consider the issue with regard to jurisdiction of this

Court to proceed to the suit. It is the case of the defendant that this Court ordinarily would

have jurisdiction to try and determine the suit but for Clause 35 of the

General Terms and Conditions for appointment of distributor. The

plaintiff is bound by such forum selection clause. The onus is on the

defendant to establish it. The defendant has relied upon Exhibit 10,

namely, the General Terms and Conditions for appointment of distributor

in order to establish that the Civil Court at Nainital is the only Court

where dispute has to be adjudicated. In order to sustain a plea based on

such forum selection clause, it has to be established that the plaintiff

and defendant have agreed that they would be governed by the terms

and conditions contained in Exhibit 10. The ouster of jurisdiction has to be strictly construed since all Civil

Courts will have jurisdiction to decide all civil matters unless by statute

or otherwise their jurisdiction is excluded. Similarly, in a contract

containing forum selection clause which results in ouster of one Court
 and preference of one Court to the other when both the Courts are

having undoubted jurisdiction to try and determine the suit is to be

strictly construed. The jurisdiction clause is a severable clause and on

this, the parties should be ad idem. In the decisions referred to by Mr.

Banerjee, namely, A.B.C. Laminart Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and Man Roland

Druckimachinen AG (supra) it would appear that the agreements

containing the forum selection clause have been duly executed by the

parties and there was no dispute with regard to the execution of such

agreements. It was based on a written contract duly executed by the

parties. In so far as the other two decisions are concerned, namely, AIR

1955 SC 812 ( Jugal Kishore Rameshwardas v. Mrs. Goolbai

Hormusji ) and AIR 1981 Cal 202 ( Das Conulstants Pvt. Ltd. v.

National Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. ) it was held that to

constitute an arbitration agreement in writing it is not necessary that it

should be signed by the parties, and it is sufficient if the terms are

reduced to writing and the agreement of the parties thereto is

established. In Jugal Kishore (supra) the appellant was a share-broker

carrying on business in the city of Bombay and a member of the Native

Share and Stock Broker's Association of Bombay. The dispute arose

between the share broker and his client with regard to sale of certain

shares. The client respondent repudiated the contracts by which the
 share broker appellant purchased certain shares to square the

outstanding sales of the respondent and send the relative contract notes

to his respondent. The respondent declined to confirm the transactions

and, accordingly, the share broker applied to the said Stock Brokers

Association in pursuance of a clause in the contract notes which is as

follows:- In deciding as to whether the arbitration clause in the contract

note constitutes an arbitration agreement, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

held as follows:- Though the respondent alleged in her petition that she
 had not accepted the contract notes, Ex. A, she raised no
 contention based thereon either before the City Civil Judge
 or before the High Court, and even, in this Court the
 position taken up by her counsel was that Ex. A
 constituted the sole repository of the contracts, and as they
 were void, there was no arbitration clause in force between
 the parties. We accordingly hold that the contract notes
 contained an agreement in writing to refer disputes arising
 out of the employment of the appellant as broker to
 arbitration and that they fell outside the scope of S.6 of Act
 8 of 1925, that the arbitration proceedings are accordingly
 competent, and that the award made therein is not open to
 objection on the ground that Ex. A is void." It was found that though the respondent alleged in her petition

before the Hon'ble Supreme Court that she did not accept the contract

notes, Exhibit A, she raised no contention based thereon either before

the City Civil Judges or before the High Court, and even the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, the position taken up by her Counsel was that Exhibit A

constituted the sole repository of the contracts, and as they were void,

there was no arbitration clause in force between the parties. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court construing Section 2(a) of the Arbitration Act, 1940 held

as follows:- In Das Consultants Pvt. Ltd. (supra) a dispute arose with regard

to determination of the existence of the arbitration agreement as referred
 to in Paragraph 2 of the petition filed before the Hon'ble Court. The Late

former Chief Justice of India before His Lordship's elevation to the

Hon'ble Supreme Court considered this aspect of the matter in

Paragraph 2 of His Lordship's Judgement which is reproduced

hereinbelow:- Therefore, certain agreement was agreed upon between the
 parties and certain draft was there. They pointed out that in
 the draft sent by the petitioner, they had noticed that there
 were some discrepancies and they had pointed that out. They
 said that they had sent back the agreement after making the
 correction and that agreement contained an arbitration clause.
 The arbitration clause was therefore transformed into writing.
 That is not disputed. If one goes into the letter dated 20th
 March, 1976 one will find that those were the terms agreed
 upon by the petitioner and the respondent. The said agreed
 terms again contained a clause that the agreement would be
 deemed to have come into force with effect from 1st of June,
 1972, and all obligations and responsibilities of the parties to
 the agreement would be deemed to have commenced from the
 above date. The agreement also stipulated that certain letters
 including the letter of indent should be deemed to form an
 integral part of the agreement." It would, thus, appear that there was a "concluded arbitration

agreement" which contains arbitration clause. Moreover, it was on

interpretation of Section 2(a) of the Arbitration Act, 1940 and the letters

exchanged by and between the parties relating to the letters of indent the

Hon'ble Court concluded that there was a concluded arbitration

agreement. In the instant case, the jurisdiction of a Civil Court to try all suits

of a civil nature should be in terms of the provisions of the Code of Civil

Procedure and the agreement between the parties. Section 9 of the Code

mentions that the Court shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil

nature excepting suits of which their cognizance is expressly or impliedly

barred. The jurisdictions of the Courts are defined in Sections 16 to 20 of the Code. In order to give preference of one Court to the other which
 means exclusion of one Court which otherwise is competent to try and

receive the suit has to be strictly construed when there is no dispute that

both the Courts would otherwise have jurisdiction to decide the lis. In

order to oust one Court and give preference of one to the other, the Court

is required to be satisfied that the parties have agreed in writing that a

particular Court should have exclusive jurisdiction over all disputes

under the agreement. Therefore, what is first required is to be

established is that there is concluded agreement between the parties

containing a forum selection clause. Analogy of Section 2(a) of the

Arbitration Act, 1940 cannot be extended while considering a plea based

on ouster of jurisdiction of a Civil Court in absence of a concluded

contract. In the instant case, the terms are not reduced to writing and

the agreement of the parties thereto not established. In view of lack of

mutuality and failure to establish that the parties have agreed to resolve

their disputes only at Nainital such submissions cannot be accepted.

Moreover, in order to attract the jurisdiction of the Civil Court at

Nainital, it has to be a dispute in respect of all matters not covered by

the said agreement. The defendant, on the one hand, contended that the

disputes are covered under Clause 34 of the General Terms and

Conditions and, on the other hand, relied upon Clause 35 in order to

oust the jurisdiction of this Court. Moreover, the defendant has failed to

establish that the parties have entered into a concluded agreement

containing such forum selection clause during the continuation of the
 said distributorship business or that the plaintiff was made aware that

the parties would be governed by the said agreement and the parties

would be bound by the said agreement. There is no evidence on record

to show that at any point of time the parties have agreed to be bound by

the terms of the said General Terms and Conditions. Accordingly, this

Court is not inclined to accept the argument based on Clause 35 of the

said agreement. In any event, it appears that this Court was directed by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court to decide the suit on merits. A decision on

merit, in my view, would mean a decision on substantive issues as

opposed to technically collateral issues. In the Law Lexicon, 3rd

Edition, P. Ramanatha Aiyar, Page 1121, the word "merit" was defined

as under:- In view thereof the said issue is answered against the defendant

and in favour of the plaintiff. The argument based on lifting of corporate veil to justify an

equitable set off also appears to be misconceived. In this regard,
 reference may be made to the depositions of the parties. Learned

Counsels on both sides have extensively referred to Question Nos.117 to

175 and 201 in the Cross-examination of Amiya Kanti Das and Question

Nos.29,52-55, 59, 60, 63, 67-71, 73, 76, 87, 88, 84, 95, 108, 109, 111,

112, 136 in the examination-in-chief of Sarjeet Singh. It appears from the analysis of the evidence of the said witnesses

that the defendant has terminated the agency of the Limited Company on

26th November, 1980 and it was incumbent upon the said defendant at

the time of termination to settle the accounts between the parties. The

said terms and conditions provide that in the event of breach of

agreement and/or any terms and/or any conditions by the distributor,

the Corporation shall forfeit the security deposit and revoke the

distributorship (Clause 12). The said sum of Rs.2,92,910.30 if at all it

was due from Pashupati was against seeds supplied before November 26,

1980. The duration of the distributorship is for one year from the date of

signing of the agreement. It is not in dispute that the Corporation

entered into an agreement in writing with the Limited Company

containing such clauses. The Corporation also received security deposit

by way of Bank guarantee bearing No.30/80 dated 16th September, 1980

for Rs.15 lakhs issued by United Bank of India, Dharmatala Brach for

supply of seeds on credit. During cross-examination of Mr. Sarjeet

Singh, the said witness admitted that such a claim of Rs.2,92,910.30/-
 was detected in August 1980 (Q.22 to 27 in cross-examination). The

witness, however, stated that both the concerns were related to the Das

family and, therefore, these transactions went on mutually. The said

witness, however, had failed to explain the reason for not realizing the

alleged dues of Rs.2,92,910.30/- prior to termination or soon thereafter

when the fact remains that the defendant was having a subsisting bank

guarantee of Rs.15 lakhs. Although it was open for the defendant to realize its dues from the

Limited Company before or soon after the termination by invoking the

bank guarantee, the defendant did not take any steps. The evidence on

record would not show that there had been dealings and transactions

between the company and the plaintiff after termination of the contract.

The Corporation was required and obliged under Clause 12 of the said

terms and conditions to settle the accounts and if required forfeit the

security deposit and revoke the distributorship for any breach of

agreement. Clause 7(b) of the General Terms and Conditions clearly

stipulates that in the event of termination of this contract for any reason,

the distributor shall settle all its accounts or recoverable statement sent

by the Corporation within 30 days. In the event of a distributor

neglecting or failing to settle accounts within the stipulated period, an

account certified by the Corporation shall be deemed to be absolutely

final and conclusive for all purposes. The distributor shall also submit an

account clearance certificate from all the dealers attached to him within
 the above-stipulated period. Accordingly, the Corporation ought to have

settled the accounts in terms of the aforesaid clause with the limited

company and the accounts produced showing certain amounts

recoverable from the company would also not show that the parties,

namely, the Corporation and Company maintaining any open current

mutual and continuous account and continued with their relationship

thereafter. The claim against the said company on the face of it appears

to be stale. In the absence of the company in this proceeding the

veracity of the claim by the defendant against the plaintiff cannot be gone

into and decided. On the contrary it would appear that during

negotiation with the plaintiff, the defendant required the plaintiff to

deposit a sum of Rs.5000/- as security deposit and as an advance

Rs.1,50,000/- for reservation of 500 M.T. of wheat seeds. It would, thus,

go to show that the plaintiff was treated as a separate entity otherwise

there would not have been any requirement for the plaintiff to furnish

security deposit of Rs.5000/-. The defendant has relied upon Exhibits 6

and 7 in order to establish its claim of set off. Exhibit 6 is a statement of

accounts of the plaintiff wherefrom it appears that from October, 1981

till September, 1990 there were transactions. Exhibit 7 relates to a

statement of account of the Limited Company. From the said statement

of accounts it would appear that as on 30th June, 1983, sum of

Rs.2,92,910.30/- was due and payable by Limited Company to the

defendant. Simultaneously, the plaintiff was functioning as a distributor
 and paid the commission. There is no evidence on record which would

show that the defendant prior to 20th June, 1987 raised any issue with

regard to Rs.2,92,910.30/- receivable from the Limited Company. The

defendant for the first time on 20th June, 1987 made an attempt to

adjust the said debit balance out of the distributor's commission for

1984-85 and 1985-86 payable to Green Distributors following disputes

raised by the plaintiff with regard to payment of its commission which

had resulted in the filing of the present suit. The plaintiff at no point of

time had accepted the liability on behalf of the Limited Company and the

same would be evident from the documents disclosed and the evidence

adduced on behalf of the plaintiff. Mr. Banerjee has made strenuous attempt to impress upon the

Court that identity of the two entities as one is established from the

evidence of Mr. Amiya Kanti Das. It was submitted that Mr. Amiya Kanti

Das during his Cross-examination in answer to Question No.201 has

admitted the said position. In order to appreciate this argument,

Question No.201 and the answers given are set out hereinbelow:- This answer read with other answers given by the plaintiff does not

show that there is any formal agreement was entered into between the

parties. Since inception the understanding was that though no

agreement was signed the defendant would pay the overriding

commission of the business as per their terms and conditions. As

mentioned earlier, the defendant cannot apply all the terms and

conditions for appointment of distributor including the jurisdiction and

arbitration clause without a written formal agreement as is required

under the general terms duly signed by the parties. The evidence would

only show that the parties have agreed as to the rate of the commission

to be paid by the defendant to the plaintiff. Unlike Section 2(a) of the

Arbitration Act, 1940 the terms and conditions for distributors being

Exhibit 10 on which reliance was placed by the parties, it requires a

written agreement duly signed as mentioned in Clauses 5 and 6 thereof

which are reproduced hereinbelow:- The defendant has failed to establish that agreement has been

executed between the parties. Consequently, the terms and conditions

for distributors cannot be relied in order to non-suit the plaintiff on the

ground of forum selection clause. Amiya Kanti Das in his evidence has categorically submitted that

the plaintiff had never accepted the liability of the Limited Company. To

lift, tear or pierce the corporate veil means to ignore the corporate

personality of an incorporated company with a view to ascertaining the

human personality hiding behind the façade of the corporate garb, when

especially the said façade is used as a disguise by the human beings who

try to conceal their identity after perpetrating some wrong or fraud in the

guise of the company. It is argued that the company and the

partnership firm are being managed and controlled by the members of

Das Family and having regard to the fact that there is an admitted due of

Rs.2,92,910.30/- from Pashupati, the said amount should be allowed to

be adjusted against the claim of the plaintiff. The Corporate veil may be

lifted where a statute itself contemplates lifting the veil, or fraud or

improper conduct is intended to be prevented, or a taxing statute or a

beneficent statute is sought to be evaded, or where associated companies

are so inextricably connected as to be, in reality, actually a part of one

concern. ( Tata Engineering & Locomotive Co. Ltd. Vs. State of

Bihar , AIR 1965 SC 40; Life Insurance Corpn of India Vs. Escorts

Ltd. , AIR 1986 SC 1370)
 The corporate veil should not be pierced simply by reason of the

fact that a group of companies operate as a single economic entity. The

courts will only lift the veil where it is clear that the purpose of the

corporate entity is to evade - (i) limitations imposed by law and (ii) such

rights of relief against the owner as third parties already possess. (Adams v. Cape Industries plc. (1991) 1 All ER 92)

 Courts have lifted the corporate veil when the veil is assumed to

perpetuate a fraud. Where there is a fraud or a deliberate breach of trust

the courts exhibit a willingness to pierce the corporate veil. Secondly, when the corporate veil is a mere sham or façade

concealing true facts, the lifting of the veil is justified. The meaning of the term 'sham' was elaborated upon in the case of

Snook v. London and West Riding Investments Ltd. (1967) 2 QB 786

CA (Civ Div). Acts done or documents executed by the parties which

were intended by them to give third parties or the courts an appearance

of creating between the parties legal rights and obligations distinct from

the actual legal rights and obligations which the parties intended to

create. The same principle of lifting the corporate veil in the event of fraud

being perpetuated is also reiterated in the case of Vodafone

International Holdings B.V. Vs. Union of India (UOI) and Anr.

(2012(1) S.C.R. 573)
 In the instant case, it appears that some of the shareholders of the

company are also the partners of the plaintiff but the fact remains that

the plaintiff was constituted after the termination of the agency

agreement of the limited company and the defendant has treated the

plaintiff as a separate entity distinct from the limited company.

Moreover, the plaintiff was required to pay security deposits as a

condition precedent for continuing with the arrangement and act as

distributor in the State of West Bengal. The defendant did not allege that

there is any fraud of the plaintiff at the time of taking the distributorship

business or subsequently. The identity of the partners of the plaintiff as

well as that of the limited company were known to the defendant when

the plaintiff was appointed as distributor. In view thereof, the said

doctrine piercing the corporate veil would not apply in the instant case. Since the defence of legal and equitable set off is dependent on an

affirmative answer on the doctrine of lifting of corporate veil in favour of

the defendant and having regard to the fact that the said question was

answered in the negative, there is no requirement to go into this aspect.

It is, however, sufficient to mention that in a claim based on legal and

equitable set off the following conditions are to be satisfied:- If the above conditions are fulfilled, an equitable set-off may
 be allowed by the court in its discretion for ascertained or
 even unascertained sum of money. One of the conditions to claim legal set off is that the due should

be legally recoverable. If the claim of the defendant is barred by the law

of limitation no set off can be pleaded. It would appear from the Exhibit

7 that the claim against the Limited Company is expressly barred by

limitation. There is no dispute that a sum of Rs.5,29,050.97/- is due and

payable by the defendant to the plaintiff as on 31st March, 1990. The

defendant has claimed a set off of Rs.2,92,910.30/- and accepted its

liability to the extent of Rs.2,36,140.94/-. In view of findings arrived at

that the defendant is not entitled to claim a set off for the aforesaid

amount the plaintiff is entitled to claim the said sum of Rs.5,29,050.97/- Accordingly, the plaintiff shall be entitled to a decree for a sum of

Rs.5,29,050.97/-. Since the claim is arising out of a commercial

transaction, the plaintiff shall be entitled to interest at the rate of 8 per

cent per annum (simple) from the date of institution of this suit till

realization. The suit is decreed accordingly. The Department is directed to

draw up the decree expeditiously. Mr. Arijit Banerjee, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the

defendant, prays for stay of operation of the judgment and decree. The

same is considered and refused. Urgent xerox certified copy of this judgment, if applied for, be given

to the parties on usual undertaking. (Soumen Sen, J.)