SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Foreigner Impression: My Favorite Thing About India
DATE: 2016-09-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/53vioc/foreigner_impression_my_favorite_thing_about_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

I recently wrapped up a trip to India (I did the Golden Triangle). My favorite thing about my trip to India was how much it made me appreciate that I don't live in India. 

Before arriving in Delhi I did research and booked a two-night hotel stay ahead of time. Upon arrival I went to an 'official' taxi stand at the Delhi airport to get a ride to the hotel. It was 02:00 and my traveling partner and I were both exhausted from the flight. The taxi driver began driving us to our hotel and then gave us a story about how the roads were closed due to political violence. He told us that unfortunately he wouldn't be able to bring us to our hotel due to the road closures. He then brought us to a 'tourism agency' and a desk agent proceeded to make fake phone calls to his friend who pretended to be working at my real hotel. The desk agent told me they would have to make alternative sleeping arrangements for us for our own safety. After making me feel bad and then demanding payment for making him wait (what a nice guy, right?), my taxi driver brought us to a very seedy hotel. The front desk agents at the hotel refused to give us wifi access lest we figure out that we had been abducted/kidnapped. Unfortunately, I was too tired and unaware of my surroundings to challenge or question the scam. Looking back I realize that we were essentially abducted. The next day my hotel emailed me and asked why we never showed up. When I emailed them back to explain what happened they weren't even surprised. This was just the first day.

The rest of my trip was a relentless series of scams and harassments. I never got scammed again thanks to the wonderful education I received on the first night. But I have to say, it was exhausting and made it difficult to simply walk around. Small packs of Indian teen males dressed like homoerotic cowboys droned around treating me like I was fucking Justin Bieber. Many of them asking me for selfies and then taking pictures of me anyway when I declined their request.

Then we took a train to Agra. I had become intimate with the filth, dirt and pollution in Delhi up to this point. The massive piles of trash, dirt and feces; ungodly smells that have permanently permeated my subconscience. I spent the next few hours on the train watching no less than a thousand of people taking shits on the train tracks. The train-shitting will be permanently etched into my memory for all of time.

Around this time I came down with travelers diarrhea. Most likely from some shit that I ate because of improper food handling. Or maybe I got it from the shit I drank because the water in India is all contaminated. Regardless of how I got it, I spent the next 5 days shackled to my hotel room because I couldn't stop explosively shitting out diarrhea. 

Finally I began to feel better and decided to go see the Taj Mahal. After dodging scam attempts, getting harassed and heckled I eventually made it. After taking some videos of the Taj Mahal with my camera I soon found myself surrounded by a pack of men, including an Army officer with a machine gun. They then berated me for taking pictures and videos of the Taj while hundreds of other people around us took pictures and videos with their cameras and phones. I asked the men and the army officer why hundreds of other people were allowed to film. The answer to this question will probably accompany me to my grave. I was then harassed by these same men who wouldn't leave me alone until I checked my camera into a locker. 

It was at this point that I decided that I would be engaging in masochism if I continued my trip. So I left.

My takeaways:
+ The filth, dirt, garbage, feces and smell are such a massive problem that they can't be ignored. Egypt, Palestine and Jordan seemed like a swiss mountain retreat compared to the stuff I saw in India. + The scamming, harassing and heckling was non-stop and exhausting. + I have never seen such a wanton disregard/outright hostility of people toward their own environment. + The expression: "Don't shit where you eat" never resonated with me more than when I was walking around India. + It amazed me that India is on the same planet as the other countries around the world that I've visited.

In short: thank you India for giving me perspective and appreciation for the things I have in my life. For the loving people who don't judge me or tell me who I can/cannot marry. For the people who don't judge me for not believing in God. For the faucet that gives me clean drinking water and the food that nourishes my body. Thank you India, for reminding me that I live in a place where people even have the luxury to care about the planet we all share together. For all of you struggling to make a better India, I send you my love and wish you the best of luck in the struggle. For those of you who continue the status quo without any consideration or thought: may god have mercy on your soul.