SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Privacy Concerns With Flipkart 
DATE: 2025-01-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hvelvt/privacy_concerns_with_flipkart/

--- POST TEXT ---

I used to have an old Flipkart account which is linked with my current email id and an old secondary mobile number I no longer used.
Yesterday, I received an email about an order being made on Flipkart. 
On checking the mail, the order was made under my name and the address was my old address which I rented about a year ago. 
I installed Flipkart on my phone and logged in with my email and the OTP sent to my mail. 
To my surprise, various items were already in the Cart and about 3 items on Order which were supposed to be delivered on January 7, 2025. All on Cash On Delivery. While some groceries were already ordered and delivered on January 5th. 

I changed my Name, removed my old Address from the account. But I cannot delete the account itself because it always asked for OTP sent to the old mobile number, which I no longer used. 
My guess is, someone was given my old number by the Mobile Network Carrier. And that person used the number to login to flipkart. 
But even if that's the case, why didn't that person change my name or address when making an order, and how was it even delivered? 

Note: The reason why I stopped using this particular Flipkart account in the first place was, the mobile number linked to the account was my secondary number. After I stopped using the number. I contacted Flipkart Customer Care multiple times through email and phone calls to update my number with my primary phone number. 
But every time, I was informed that they couldn't do it because of their policy to prevent scam/fraudulent use. And the only possible way to update my phone number will be by entering OTPs sent to both my phone number and email id. But I no longer use the number, nor do I have the sim card anymore at that time. 

So, right now. This particular Flipkart account can be access by both that person and me. That person can make orders in my name and to my old address. And I can cancel those orders.