News agency Asian News International (ANI) has sent copyright strikes to multiple journalists on YouTube, over the use of clips of copyrighted content. The news agency has also asked for financial compensation in exchange for withdrawing the strikes. This story was first reported by The Reporter’s Collective .

Copyright strikes are one of the tools offered by YouTube to copyright owners to protect their content on the platform and remove infringing material. When a channel receives a copyright strike for a video, YouTube first reviews the strike. If it considers the strike to be valid, it removes the offending video. For context, if a creator receives more than three copyright strikes, YouTube deletes their channel.

A news channel on YouTube informed MediaNama that it had received two copyright strikes from ANI earlier in the month, with an attached demand of Rs. 18 lakh. Being unable to pay the amount immediately, the editor of this channel asked them for a grace period of ten days.

“The amount is equivalent to the revenue we would generate in one and a half to two years,” he said.

The channel had used some of ANI’s content in only two videos. One was a YouTube short where a small clipping from the news agency played, without the original sound, for ten to fifteen seconds. In the second instance, the channel was broadcasting a YouTube live where they showed an X (formerly Twitter) feed, where one of ANI’s videos played for over a minute.

“We accept that we have made a mistake, but should its punishment be this high?” asked the editor. “They could have asked us to delete the offending videos or taken their revenue, but here they are demanding more money from YouTubers than from their own subscribers,” he added.

He also said that the news agency was deploying copyright strikes strategically in a way to ensure that the target had no choice left but to pay.

“They had planned for this from the beginning. If somebody accidentally uses their content once, they don’t send a strike immediately. Instead, they wait until they can send multiple strikes so that they can force people to pay up,” he said, adding that the YouTube Live which received a copyright strike was over a year old.

“In my opinion, this is a type of blackmailing,” said the editor of another channel who claimed to have received almost fifteen copyright strikes from ANI. The channel had to pay a settlement amount to the news agency earlier this year, after which they took back the copyright strikes. While he declined to reveal the settlement amount, the editor said it was substantial.

The channel had used bytes produced by ANI, like comments by political leaders as part of their programs. “They were hardly 15-20 seconds long,” he said.

“If a story is shared on social media, anybody will use it, it’s a normal thing,” he added.

As a result of receiving over a dozen copyright strikes, YouTube suspended new uploads for the channel pending its deletion in seven days.

“It had a lot of impact on our channel, our traffic went from 10 million users to 4 million. Our revenue more than halved,” he said.

MediaNama has reached out to ANI for a comment.

YouTube creators rely significantly on advertising revenue from their videos. YouTube removes content which receives a copyright strike entirely, hampering the income of many independent journalists.

Large copyright owners have another way of enforcing their claims on YouTube through Content ID . According to YouTube, some copyright owners can upload a database of their published content to the platform, which will then automatically detect and flag violations. Following this, the copyright owner can choose to block the video, receive a section of the revenue or access its viewership statistics.

MediaNama had previously reported on the impact of copyright claims on Youtubers, when last year a number of prominent journalists, including Ravish Kumar and Abhisar Sharma, had received strikes from a music company called Ziiki Media, despite none of the creators using the company’s content. The year before that, Prasar Bharti had sent copyright claims to Sharma for using Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s footage. As a result, he was unable to earn any revenue from those videos.

ANI has been litigious in asserting its copyright, even suing tech giant OpenAI for allegedly using its content to train Large Language Models (LLMs).

The Copyright Act , 1957, grants copyright holders the exclusive right to communicate their work to the public. The Act defines copyright infringement as occurring when an individual engages in any activity that the Act considers to be an exclusive right of the copyright owner.

However, Section 52 of the Act also contains a number of use cases which are exceptions to copyright infringement. It states that “fair dealing” for any work for the purposes of:

While the law seems to include an exception for news reporting, which is relevant here, it’s not a blanket exception. The Act itself doesn’t define “fair dealing” and there is little clarity on where to draw the line.

“Dealing ‘fairly’ is the keyword. If you are dealing fairly with some third-party material, then third-party cannot come after you as long as you are falling within [Section] 52’s exceptions.” said Rahul Ajatshatru, a lawyer specialising in Intellectual Property Law.

“It may be fair dealing, only if somebody has used copyrighted work in a way to report the news. That too, only if the use is incidental and not substantial,” he explained.

“In the name of reporting, you can’t re-broadcast somebody else’s news feature and state that you were simply reporting the same thing,” he added.

Ajatshatru presented a hypothetical example of a blogger who used a copyrighted video of a politician’s speech as part of his content.

“You can probably play a five-to-ten-second clip and that should be okay, according to me, as long as you have a big program, say 10 minutes or five minutes or whatever. But you can’t substantially reproduce. That’ll not be fair dealing. It must be noted that substantial is not just quantitative, but qualitative and thus, the context becomes important. There cannot be a straitjacket formula here” he said.

On the flip side, Ajatshatru also asserted the importance of copyright protection for news organisations who had expended time and money in producing content. “You cannot ride on somebody else’s effort on the pretext of doing something which is competitive. What will happen, all these people who are not spending any money or effort to collect news will now take that footage and re-release or re-broadcast it on their channels,” he said.

Back in 2012, The Delhi High Court (HC) had also taken up the question of duration in a judgement. In the India TV vs Yashraj Films case, the court had ruled that small copyright infractions, in that particular case the copying of a few lines and few seconds from a song, were not actionable.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event