1. The petitioner, who is a practicising advocate at District Court, Amritsar,
apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above, has come up before this Court under Section 438 CrPC seeking anticipatory bail by filing the present petition on 12.09.2023. 2. Vide interim order dated 15.09.2023, this Court had granted interim bail to the
petitioner, subject to disclosure of assets as mentioned in para 17 of the said order. On
22.09.2023, the petitioner's counsel stated that they had voluntarily complied with
previous order. On 17.10.2023, State had handed over the reply and the petitioner had
sought adjournment to go through the same. Matter was finally heard on 21.11.2023
and order was reserved. 3. Facts of the case are being extracted from the reply dated 10.10.2023, filed by
the concerned DySP, which reads as follows:- 4. That during the enquiry proceedings, the statement of the complainant
 Jatinder Singh was recorded, who alleged he had contacted the petitioner
 and a private Advocate for the payment of the aforesaid compensation
 amount, they both has assured about the payment of the aforesaid
 compensation amount without any obstruction by the Improvement
 Trust, Amritsar by demanding Rs. 20 lakh from him and he had paid Rs.
 20 lakh to both of them on different dates as per their demand for the
 release of compensation amount to be paid by the Improvement Trust,
 Amritsar for the acquisition of his 20 bighe land, which has been
 enhanced by this Hon'ble Court on the appeal filed by him." 4. Petitioner seeks bail on the ground that entire FIR is a result of malicious intent.
Petitioner's counsel has referred to paras 3 to 5 of the bail petition and it would be
appropriate to extract such paragraphs and the same are as follows:- 5. I have heard counsel for the parties and also gone through the petition as well as
status report. 6. State has also placed on record the photographs of the petitioner accepting cash,
one time in the office and second time in the car. 7. Perusal of the said photographs clearly reveal that the petitioner is accepting the
cash. In addition to that, State has also appended a pen drive containing the recording
of handing over the cash. I have seen all the four videos in the pen drive in the
electronic device of my Research Associate. Apparently, the videos have clear edges, no
interruptions and do not point out any possibility of any tampering or editing in it.
Furthermore, State contended that requisite certificate under Section 65-B of Indian
Evidence Act was obtained for such electronic evidence. 8. I have also gone through the transcript of the video which has been annexed as
Annexure A-1 of the reply. 9. After watching the photographs and seeing the video dialects of which is in
Gurumukhi, I can fully understand, as well as the transcript, it is clear that the petitioner
had accepted bribe in cash and currency notes have been counted by the petitioner with
his own hands. 10. State counsel submits that the investigator duly gave an opportunity to the
petitioner to explain and rebut the allegations but he did not appear. Further, during
the investigation, the petitioner could not point out any other reason for such money.
Thus, an analysis of the petition, response filed by the State and arguments addressed
by counsel, leads to an outcome that the petitioner who is an advocate and was
appointed as Law Officer of Amritsar Improvement Trust in the year 2019, took a sum of
Rs.75 lacs as bribe, out of which videography of Rs. 20 lacs was done which includes Rs.
50 lacs in cash and Rs. 25 lacs through different cheques to the petitioner, which were
encashed in different bank accounts. Simply because Chairman of Amritsar
Improvement Trust was pointed out towards involvement of a massive amount, is no
ground for bail in the absence of any evidence of false implication. The petitioner in the
video is himself counting the currency notes very happily. Granting anticipatory bail to
the petitioner could hamper the investigation, send a negative message to society and 3 3 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 06-12-2023 05:28:40 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:155208 4 CRM-M-46421-2023
potentially increase corruption. Simply because petitioner is an advocate, it is not mean
that he has not committed any offence. 11. Considering the nature of allegations and for the reason that petitioner was law
officer of Amritsar Improvement Trust and as such prima facie is a public servant and
also the evidence collected, does not warrant the grant of bail to the petitioner. 12. In State of Gujarat v. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal (1987) 2 SCC 364, Supreme Court
holds,
 [5]. ....The entire community is aggrieved if the economic
 offenders who ruin the economy of the State are not brought to
 book. A murder may be committed in the heat of moment upon
 passions being aroused. An economic offence is committed with
 cool calculation and deliberate design with an eye on personal
 profit regardless of the consequence to the community. A
 disregard for the interest of the community can be manifested
 only at the cost of forfeiting the trust and faith of the community
 in the system to administer justice in an even-handed manner
 without fear of criticism from the quarters which view white collar
 crimes with a permissive eye unmindful of the damage done to the
 national economy and national interest....." 13. In State rep. by CBI v. Anil Sharma, (1997) 7 SCC 187, Supreme Court holds,
 [6]. We find force in the submission of the CBI that custodial
 interrogation is qualitatively more elicitation oriented than
 questioning a suspect who is well ensconded with a favourable
 order under Section 438 of the code. In a case like this effective
 interrogation of suspected person is of tremendous advantage in
 disinterring many useful informations and also materials which
 would have been concealed. Succession such interrogation would
 elude if the suspected person knows that he is well protected and
 insulted by a pre-arrest bail during the time he interrogated. Very
 often interrogation in such a condition would reduce to a mere
 ritual. The argument that the custodial interrogation is fraught with
 the danger of the person being subjected to third degree methods
 need not be countenanced, for, such an argument can be advanced
 by all accused in all criminal cases. The court has to presume that
 responsible Police Officers would conduct themselves in task of
 disinterring offences would not conduct themselves as offenders. 14. In Jai Prakash Singh v. State of Bihar and another (2012) 4 SCC 379, Supreme Court
holds,
 [19]. Parameters for grant of anticipatory bail in a serious offence
 are required to be satisfied and further while granting such relief,
 the court must record the reasons therefor. Anticipatory bail can be
 granted only in exceptional circumstances where the court is prima
 facie of the view that the applicant has falsely been enroped in the
 crime and would not misuse his liberty. [See D.K. Ganesh Babu v.
 P.T. Manokaran ( 2007) 4 SCC 434, State of Maharashtra v. Mohd.
 Sajid Husain Mohd. S. Husain ( 2008) 1 SCC 213 and Union of India
 v. Padam Narain Aggarwal (2008) 13 SCC 305]. 4 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 06-12-2023 05:28:40 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:155208 5 CRM-M-46421-2023 15. In Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy v. CBI (2013) 7 SCC 439, Supreme Court holds,
 [34]. Economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be
 visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. The
 economic offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving
 huge loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously and
 considered as grave offences affecting the economy of the country
 as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the financial
 health of the country. [35]. While granting bail, the court has to keep in mind the nature
 of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the
 severity of the punishment which conviction will entail, the
 character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the
 accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the
 accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses
 being tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State and
 other similar considerations. 16. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement , 2019 9 SCC 24, Supreme Court
holds,
 [70]. We are conscious of the fact that the legislative intent behind
 the introduction of Section 438 Cr.P.C., 1973 is to safeguard the
 individual's personal liberty and to protect him from the possibility
 of being humiliated and from being subjected to unnecessary
 police custody. However, the court must also keep in view that a
 criminal offence is not just an offence against an individual, rather
 the larger societal interest is at stake. Therefore, a delicate balance
 is required to be established between the two rights - safeguarding
 the personal liberty of an individual and the societal interest. It
 cannot be said that refusal to grant anticipatory bail would amount
 to denial of the rights conferred upon the appellant under Article
 21 of the Constitution of India. 17. In Central Bureau of Investigation v. Santosh Karnani, Cr.A 1148 of 2023, dated
17-04- 2023, Supreme Court, in an FIR registered under sections under Sections 7 , 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, holds,

 [24]. The time−tested principles are that no straitjacket formula
 can be applied for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. The judicial
 discretion of the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors
 and largely it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of
 each case. The Court must draw a delicate balance between
 liberty of an individual as guaranteed under Article 21 of the
 Constitution and the need for a fair and free investigation, which
 must be taken to its logical conclusion. Arrest has devastating and
 irreversible social stigma, humiliation, insult, mental pain and
 other fearful consequences. Regardless thereto, when the Court,
 on consideration of material information gathered by the
 Investigating Agency, is prima facie satisfied that there is
 something more than a mere needle of suspicion against the
 accused, it cannot jeopardise the investigation, more so when the
 allegations are grave in nature. 5 of 6 ::: Downloaded on - 06-12-2023 05:28:40 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2023:PHHC:155208 6 CRM-M-46421-2023
 [31]. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence should have
 been kept in mind by the High Court. Corruption poses a serious
 threat to our society and must be dealt with iron hands. It not
 only leads to abysmal loss to the public exchequer but also
 tramples good governance. The common man stands deprived of
 the benefits percolating under social welfare schemes and is the
 worst hit. It is aptly said, "Corruption is a tree whose branches are
 of an unmeasurable length; they spread everywhere; and the dew
 that drops from thence, Hath infected some chairs and stools of
 authority." Hence, the need to be extra conscious. 18. In the background of the allegations and the light of the judicial precedents
mentioned above in the facts and circumstances peculiar to this case, the petitioner fails
to make a case for anticipatory bail. 19. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits, neither the court taking up regular bail nor the trial Court shall advert to
these comments. Petition dismissed. Interim orders, stand vacated. All pending applications, if any, also
stand disposed.