Indira Banerjee, J. Leave granted. 2. This Appeal is against an order dated 22 nd October 2021 passed by the

 Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka dismissing the Criminal Petition

 being CRL.P. No.100167 of 2017 filed by the Appellant under Section 482 of the

 Code of Criminal Procedure (“ Cr.P.C .”), seeking to quash the proceedings against

 the Appellant in Crime No.69/2012 on the file of the III Additional District and

 Sessions Judge, Ballari later numbered as Special Case No.04/2016 for offences

 punishable under Sections 13(1)(c) and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as “the P.C. Act ”) and Sections 120B and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (“ IPC ”). Signature Not Verified 3. Digitally signed by GULSHAN KUMAR The Appellant is the Chairman and Managing Director of M/s MSPL
ARORA
Date: 2022.04.07
17:29:01 IST

 Limited. In 2010, MSPL Limited imported an Aston Martin Rapide car for which
Reason: 4. One Jagadish B.N., Advocate filed a private complaint in the Court of XXIII

Additional City Civil Sessions Judge, Bangalore City and Special Judge,

Prevention of Corruption Act, Bangalore Urban District, Bangalore City alleging

that there was collusion and conspiracy between RTOs in Karnataka as a result

of which appropriate road tax was not being collected. It was alleged that cars

were being imported in Karnataka for which RTO was not charging road tax as

per the actual cost. 5. By an order dated 7th August 2012, the Court of XXIII Additional City Civil

& Special Judge, Prevention of Corruption Act Bengaluru passed an order

referring the complaint to the Superintendent of Police, Lokayuktha, Bengaluru

Urban, under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C. with a direction to constitute a team

of four Deputy Superintendents of Police to investigate the matter and report.

On 14th August 2012, FIR in respect of the complaint was registered at the

Lokayuktha Police Station, Bengaluru, Urban and a criminal case being Crime

No.69/2012 was started. 6. Some relevant observations and/or findings in the order dated 7 th August

2012 of the XXIII Additional City Civil Sessions Judge, Bangalore City and Special

Judge, Prevention of Corruption Act, Bangalore Urban District, Bangalore City are

as follows: The complainant claims that to get a car registered in the passport
authorities, and approved procedure is laid down by the Motor
Vehicles Act , more particularly a custom duty of 10% should have
been paid. 8. Complaint further claims that not less than 500 cars entered in
Karnataka and for name sake 4 to 5 car were mentioned as
Bentley and remaining cars have been registered by suppressing
the brand name and more than 98% have been registered on the
basis of invoice and not on the basis of cash bill. … 11. The complainant further claims that the manufacturing
rate of Bentley car is 1.16 crores for basic model and car which
have entered Bangalore range from basic model to top end. The
selling rate at the factory ord is 86,000 pounds i.e.,
Rs.1,16,00,000/- and on road the value of Bentley car
would go beyond Rs.3 crores for a car and if formalities are
properly complied with. The complainant further claims
that top end model would range up more the Rs.6 crores. 12. The complainant also claims that the racket is done with
extraordinary brilliance and intelligence and it is abetting come 4 and also influencing the public servant in getting their car
registered and unless proper investigation agency conducted fair,
equal and comprehensive investigation, the fraud cannot be
unearthed…… 13. The complainant further claims that the majority of the dealers
who have not disclosed their identity in Bangalore after receiving
the assignment, have based on the documents only invoice which
totally not explained and have cleverly avoided the cash receipt
being given, for the reason that the majority of the authorized
dealer are not entitled to deal with the vehicle. ….. 20. The complainant claims that the accused persons are private
individual and no sanction is necessary to take cognizance against
them the complainant orally submits that the accused persons
have abetted and influenced the public servants for committing
the offences and the investigating agency would get the definite
picture orally after ascertaining with the concerned transport
authority at different levels and at different parts of Karnataka, but
mainly in Bangalore as the cars moved from Bangalore and
fabrication and forgery of documents took place in Bangalore,
besides abetments (sic) to commit offence under prevention of
corruption act complainant further claims that a full scale
investigation is required by independent agency.

….. 24. The complainant further orally submitted that, few vehicles
were registered with take documents in the transport authority in
India and thereafter in Karnataka through Bangalore more
particularly rural areas and thereafter they go away from the state
and will be applied in different parts it is further submitted that for
registration the documents are necessary and one the registration
is the certificate given by the R.T.O. in that event the different
between the fake and genuine papers pertaining to the presence
of the motors vehicles get vanished. … 28. The Complainant claims that the accused persons who are
the dealers, distributors in Bangalore, other places have forged the
documents and have successfully abated the public servants
(Transport Authorities) and have got the registration of the said
vehicles illegally and have resulted in the loss of crores and cores
of rupees and in the process have cheated the Government Public
at large. He further submits that mafia in the form of a ‘net work’
is behind the scam. ... 31. In the cell all context and circumstances of the case and
 after recording the complainant his grievance and contents of the
 complaint at this stage I am of the sincere view that is it just and
 proper that only a comprehensive investigation is necessary by the
 superintendent of police, lokayukta Bangalore urban by constitute
 a team of four Dy. SP and entrust the matter to them to
 investigation and to report. Hence I proceed to pass the following

 ORDER

 The complaint is referred to superintendent of Police, Lokayukta,
 Bangalore Urban under Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. with a direction to
 constitute a team of four Dy. S.P. for investigating the matter and
 to report. “ 7. The Appellant is neither a vehicle dealer nor a middle man nor a

smuggler. He is not even the owner of the vehicle in question but only the

Chairman/Managing Director of M/s MSPL Limited, the Company which has

imported the vehicle, and got the same registered. Neither the Appellant nor

the Company of which the Appellant is the Managing Director has abandoned

any vehicle. 8. On 27th February 2013, the RTO, Hosapete issued a demand notice to M/s

MSPL Limited demanding differential motor vehicle tax of Rs.20,44,468/- in

respect of the vehicle in question. M/s MSPL Limited immediately complied with

the demand and paid the demanded sum of Rs.20,44,468/- in full on 20 th March

2013, after which the RTO, Hosapete issued a “No Dues Certificate” to M/s MSPL

Limited. 9. On 2nd November 2015, Lokayuktha Police issued a notice dated 13 th

October 2015 to the RTO, Ballari. By a letter dated 2 nd November 2015, the

RTO informed the Lokayuktha Police that M/s MSPL Limited had paid the entire

deficit tax. 10. On 8th December 2015, Lokayuktha Police filed an inquiry report-cum-

chargesheet in the aforesaid case being Crime No. 69/2012 under Sections

13(1)(c) , 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the P.C. Act, 1988 and Sections 120B and 420 of

IPC. 11. In the chargesheet, it is alleged that the Appellant had conspired with one

Mr. K. Pampapati, Regional Transport Officer, Hosapete and Mr. Shanmukh Naik

Superintendent, Office of Regional Transport Officer, Hosapete to evade

payment of an amount of Rs.20,44,468/- towards road tax. 12. Pursuant to the chargesheet filed by the Lokayuktha Police, against the

Appellant and others, Special Case No.4 of 2016 was started in the Court of the

III Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ballari sitting at Hosapete. 13. By an order dated 4th November 2016, in Special Case No.4/2016, the

learned III Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ballari sitting at Hosapete took

cognizance and issued summons to the Appellant. 14. Thereafter, the Appellant filed Criminal Petition No.100167 of 2017 before

the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka under Section 482 of the

Cr.P.C., praying that the proceedings in Special Case No.4/2016 on the file of the

III Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ballari sitting at Hosapete be quashed

as against the Appellant. 15. Section 8A of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1957 provides as

follows:- 16. In the said petition, the Appellant pointed out that short collection in road

tax, if any, could be collected from the owner of the vehicle, under Section 8A of

the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1957. On receipt of demand notice,

M/s MSPL Limited, the owner of the vehicle in question, had paid the differential

tax. M/s MSPL Limited had deposited the entire road tax in full. 17. By an interim order dated 14th February 2017, the Dharwad Bench of the

High Court of Karnataka was pleased to stay the criminal proceedings against

the Appellant. The interim order was extended from time to time. 18. By the judgment and order dated 22nd October 2021 impugned in this

Court, the High Court dismissed the Criminal Revisional Petition being CRL.P.

No.100167 of 2017. 19. It is the case of the Appellant that on 19th December 2019, the Bengaluru

Bench of the High Court of Karnataka allowed a Writ Petition/Criminal Revisional

Petition filed by one S.V. Nandaraju and others being Writ Petition

No.41103/2016 (GM-RES) and quashed proceedings initiated against petitioners

in the aforesaid case, S.V. Nandaraju, which arose from the same chargesheet

as in the present case. The High Court held:- However, as noticed earlier the State Government had declined to
 sanction prosecution against the serving employees. It was also
 observed in the Government Order that two of the employees had
 already retired and therefore the State Government declined to
 sanction prosecution. Furthermore, the State Government,
 while pointing out to Section B(a) of the Taxation Act , had
 observed that if there was short collection of tax, the
 difference could be collected from the owners of the
 vehicles. It is an admitted fact that the owners of the
 vehicles were called upon to pay the difference amount and
 the same has been paid by them. Consequently, the criminal
 proceedings against the owners of the vehicles were
 quashed by this Court. Further, as held by the State Government,
 since Section 21 of the Taxation Act protects the Officers who acted
 in good faith, and since sanction to prosecute was declined by the
 State Government, the same benefit is required to be granted to the
 petitioners who are similarly placed. Some of the petitioners have
 already got the benefit of the order passed by the Government.” 20. Mr. Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Appellant drew

attention of this Court to an order dated 26 th September 2019 passed by the

Bengaluru Bench of the High Court of Karnatka in Criminal Petition No.3087 of

2018 titled S. Rajendran v. State of Karnataka & Others and an order

dated 11th December 2019 passed by another Bench of the High Court of

Karnatka at Bengaluru in Criminal Petition No.344 of 2017 ( K.J. Kruruvilla v.

State of Karnataka & Another). In both the cases, the criminal revisional

petitions were allowed and the proceedings against the petitioners were

quashed. 21. In the case of S. Rajendran (supra) he had purchased a Toyota Prado

vehicle, which was registered on 3rd November 2007. Pursuant to the private

complaint filed by the Respondent No. 2, FIR was registered and chargesheet 9 was filed on 28th November 2016. In the meanwhile, on 28 th July 2010, a notice

was issued demanding a sum of Rs.2,83,480/-. At the time of hearing, the

petitioner in Criminal Petition No.344 of 2017 produced a receipt acknowledging

payment of the aforesaid amount. Taking note of the fact that there was no

material annexed to the chargesheet against the petitioner, S. Rajendran, in

Criminal Petition No.3087 of 2018, and that payment of differential tax had been

made before filing of the private complaint, the petition was allowed. 22. In the case of the K.J. Kuruvilla (supra), the petitioner had purchased a

Range Rover which was registered on 30th March 2007. At the time of

Registration, the petitioner was called upon to pay Rs.9,99,628/- towards Life

Time Tax. Later the vehicle was sold on 11 th March 2011. Thereafter, the

petitioner was called upon to pay differential tax of Rs.19,045/- which was paid. Relying on S. Rajendran (supra), Criminal proceedings against K.J. Kuruvilla

were also quashed. Under Section 8A of the Karnataka Motor Vehicle Taxation

Act, 1957 a notice is required to be issued to the petitioner to explain how there

was shortfall in collection of tax and thereafter the petitioner is required to pay

the differential amount, if any. 23. The chargesheet filed by the police is totally vague and devoid of material

particulars. The charges in the Chargesheet were identical stereotype charges.

Only the dates of registration and the deficit fee amount varied from case to

case. On such stereotype charge is as follows:- 24. As observed above, the Appellant is Chairman and Managing Director of

the corporate entity, which purchased the vehicle in question. There is not a

whisper in the chargesheet of the specific role played by the Appellant or how

he committed the offence of cheating. 25. Criminal law cannot be set into motion as a matter of course. Summoning

of an accused in a criminal case is a serious matter. To set Criminal law into

motion, the order of the Magistrate summoning the accused, must reflect that

he has applied his mind to the facts of the case. Before the Magistrate issues

summons to a Chairman, Managing Director, Director or any other official of the

company, the Magistrate has to record his satisfaction of a prima facie case

against him/her in his/her own capacity is sine qua non for initiation of criminal

proceedings against a Chairman, Managing Director or officer of a company. It

is well settled that no official of a company can be dragged into criminal

proceedings only in his/her capacity as official of the company, without any

specific role attributed to him/her in relation to the offence alleged against the

company. 26. In Ravindranatha Bajpe v. Mangalore Special Economic Zone

Limited and Others1 , this Court held:- 27. As held by this Court in the case of India Infoline
 Limited (supra), in the order issuing summons, the learned
 Magistrate has to record his satisfaction about a prima facie case
 against the accused who are Managing Director, the Company
 Secretary and the Directors of the Company and the role played by
 them in their respective capacities which is sine qua non for
 initiating criminal proceedings against them. Looking to the averments
 and the allegations in the complaint, there are no specific allegations and/or
 averments with respect to role played by them in their capacity as Chairman,
 Managing Director, Executive Director, Deputy General Manager and Planner
 & Executor. Merely because they are Chairman, Managing
 Director/Executive Director and/or Deputy General Manager and/or
 Planner/Supervisor of A1 & A6, without any specific role attributed
 and the role played by them in their capacity, they cannot be
 arrayed as an accused, more particularly they cannot be held
 vicariously liable for the offences committed by A1 & A6.” 27. In Maksud Saiyed v. State of Gujarat2 , this Court held:- 28. In State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal3 this Court held:- …. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not
 disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against
 the accused. …. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so
 absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent
 person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient
 ground for proceeding against the accused. ….. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala
 fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a
 view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” 29. Short payment of tax per se is not a criminal offence, as held by this Court

in Devendra v. State of U.P.4 . The High Court ordinarily would exercise its

3 (1992) Supp (1) SCC 335
4 (2009) 7 SCC 495 13 jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., if the allegations made in the FIR taken

to be correct in entirety, do not make out any offence. When the allegations

made in the FIR or evidence collected during investigation do not satisfy the

ingredients of an offence, the superior Courts would not encourage harassment

of a person in a Criminal Court. 30. In G. Sagar Suri & Another v. State of U.P. and Others5 , this Court

adjudicating the liability of a Director in a proceedings under Section 420 of the

IPC held:- 31. In Joseph Salvaraj A. v. State of Gujarat and Others6 , this Court held

that even if chargesheet had been filed, Magistrate could still examine whether

the offences alleged to have been committed by the accused were prima facie

made out from the complainant’s FIR, chargesheet, documents, etc. or not. 32. In the instant case, the allegations in the FIR read with the chargesheet

filed by the Lokayuktha Police only discloses short payment of road tax. There

is only a vague, bald allegation of collusion and conspiracy to defraud the State

of revenue, which is devoid of any material particulars. 33. The Appellant filed the Criminal Revisional Petition under Section 482 of

the Cr.P.C. praying that the proceedings in Special Case No.4 of 2016 on the file

of the IIIrd Additional District and Sessions Judge, Ballari sitting at Hosapete be

quashed in so far as the Appellant is concerned. 34. In the said petition the Appellant contended:- (vi) The Appellant has not gained any pecuniary benefit, nor has the
 company gained any pecuniary benefit; (vii) The Appellant never met any official of the road transport, the question
 of conspiracy involving the Appellant did not arise. 35. The Appellant claims that he has never been involved in any criminal

offence in his life time. The false implication of the Appellant would damage the

reputation of the Appellant. There being absolutely no materials against the

Appellant anywhere in the chargesheet, the proceedings as against the

Appellant are liable to be quashed. The filing of the chargesheet against the

Appellant is arbitrary, harassive and unsupported by any materials on record. 36. None of the aforesaid contentions have been considered by the High

 Court. The High Court observed:- 37. The Appellant has not questioned initiation of criminal proceedings

against any of the other accused persons. He has no intention of stalling

proceedings against any person involved in smuggling cars or forging or

fabricating documents or committing any other illegal activities. He has

questioned the legality of initiation of proceedings against him for alleged short

payment of road tax in respect of a vehicle owned by the company of which he

is Chairman and Managing Director even though, the alleged deficit road tax

had been paid by the company within one month of issuance of demand notice. 38. There is no whisper of how and in what manner the Appellant has abetted

the commission of any offence. It is nobody’s case that any document

submitted in connection with the vehicle in question imported by M/s MSPL

Limited is fake or fabricated. That is not the charge, so far as the Appellant is

concerned. From Paragraph 11 of the order dated 7 th August 2012, it transpires

that in case of some of the cars, the owners had declared the selling rates at

the factory as the value of the car, and not the on road value which would be

about three times the factory value. 39. Mr. Rohatgi emphatically argued that the company of which the Appellant

is the Chairman and Managing Director, M/s. MSPL Limited, had paid road tax as

charged by the Motor Vehicle Authorities on the basis of the value of the vehicle

as given in the invoice. The Appellant has annexed a copy of the invoice which

shows that the vehicle in question was purchased by the Company from Aston

Martin Brussels by the Manager of M/s MSPL Limited at a total cost of

162,465,00 Euros, the Appellant has also annexed the application form for

registration of the vehicle. It is pointed out that all the required information was

provided in the application for registration. 40. Opposing the appeal, Mr. Subhranshu Padhi, learned counsel appearing on

behalf of the State of Karnataka emphasized the gravity of the allegations in the

complaint. Mr. Padhi submitted that there was a racket in operation to defraud

the State of revenue of crores of rupees. Mr. Padhi submitted that this Court

ought not to quash the proceedings. 41. Mr. Padhi tried to distinguish the judgments of the High Court cited by the

Appellant, that is, the judgments/orders in the cases of S.V. Nandaraju (supra), S. Rajendran (supra) and K.J. Kuruvilla (supra). Mr. Padhi pointed

out that in the cases of S. Rajendran (supra) and K.J. Kuruvilla (supra),

where the High Court had quashed the criminal proceedings, the demand notice

for deficit tax had been issued and the deficit tax had also been realized before

the private complaint filed by the Respondent No.2 was registered. 42. The mere fact that demand notice may have been issued and the

differential tax realized before institution of the private complaint is in our view

inconsequential. Either the charges disclose an offence of defrauding the State

of revenue or the offence of defrauding the State of revenue not made out. The

question is whether the materials on record disclose any criminal act on the part

of these Appellants. The answer cannot but be in the negative. 43. The judgment dated 19th December, 2019 in the case of S.V. Nandaraju

and others (supra) is distinguishable and has no application to the facts of this

case. The accused were officers and/or employees of the Motor Vehicles

Department, some of whom had retired long before the complaint was lodged.

In some of the cases, proceedings had been quashed on the ground that 18 sanction under Section 17 of the P.C. Act to prosecute had been declined by the

State Government. 44. Mr. Rohatgi argued with force that the Company had paid full road tax as

charged by the Motor Vehicles Authorities, on the basis of the actual invoice

value of the car in question. No further amount was payable. However, when

the RTO raised a notice of demand for Rs. 21 lakh odd in 2012, the company did

not raise any dispute since the amount claimed was a small amount for the

Company, which had a turnover of crores of rupees. 45. This Court is of the view that the proceedings against the Appellant are

misconceived, harassive, in abuse of process of law and have been initiated

without proper application of mind. This appeal is, therefore, allowed. Further

proceedings against these Appellants in the Court below, shall remain stayed. …..............................J.
 [INDIRA BANERJEE]

 ................................J.
 [J.K. MAHESHWARI]
NEW DELHI
MARCH 14, 2022 19 ITEM NO.26 Court 8 (Video Conferencing) SECTION II-C

 S U P R E M E C O U R T O F I N D I A
 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Petition(s) for Special Leave to Appeal (Crl.) No(s). 9528/2021

(Arising out of impugned final judgment and order dated 22-10-2021
in CRLP No. 100167/2017 passed by the High Court of Karnataka
Circuit Bench At Dharwad)

SRI NARENDRA KUMAR A. BALDOTA Petitioner(s)

 VERSUS

THE STATE OF KARNATAKA Respondent(s)

(IA No. 160552/2021 - EXEMPTION FROM FILING C/C OF THE IMPUGNED
JUDGMENT IA No. 160554/2021 - EXEMPTION FROM FILING O.T.)

Date : 14-03-2022 These matters were called on for hearing today. UPON hearing the counsel the Court made the following
 O R D E R

 Leave granted. The appeal is allowed in terms of the signed reportable

judgment. Further proceedings against the appellant in the courts 20 below shall remain stayed. (Signed reportable judgment is placed on the file)