These Criminal Petitions are filed by the petitioners

under Section 482 of Criminal Procedure Code (hereinafter

referred as ' Cr.P.C .') to quash the proceedings in C.C.No.1027

of 2014 and C.C.No.407 of 2016 respectively on the file of the

learned III Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar,

Rangareddy District, taken cognizance for the offences under Sections 498-A of Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of

Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. 02. The case of the petitioners was that the second

respondent filed a private complaint under Section 200 of

Cr.P.C which was referred to the Police under Section 156 (3) of

Cr.P.C., and the same was registered as Cr.No.322 of 2014 for

the offence under Section 498-A of Indian Penal Code. The

second respondent lodged a complaint alleging that she was 2 married with the petitioner No.1/accused No.1 on 17-02-2012 at

Ramanthapur Super Function Hall according to Muslim

marriage rituals. At the time of marriage, her parents gave 26

tulas of gold, 750 grams of silver, clothes, household articles,

motorcycle, electronic goods on the demand of her husband

and his family members. After her marriage, she joined

conjugal life with her husband at her in-laws' house at Venkat

Reddy Nagar, Ramanthapur, Uppal. Her husband was

working as constable at C.I. Cell, Lakadikapul, Hyderabad.

They lived happily for about six months. Later the accused

No.1 at the instigation of his family members started harassing

her both physically and mentally, for want of additional dowry

from her parents. As her father had not given any additional

dowry they started harassing her and necked her out of the

house on 17-04-2014. 03. The Police after investigation filed charge sheet

against the petitioners No.1 to 3/accused No.1 to 3 herein for

the offences under Sections 498-A of IPC and Sections 3 and 4 of 3 Dowry Prohibition Act , and deleted the names of the

petitioners No.4 to 9/accused No.4 to 9 from the list of accused

observing that their involvement was not established, as the

other accused persons were living separately since long time. 04. The learned III Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad

at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District, had taken cognizance of the

case and the same was numbered as C.C.No.1027 of 2014. 05. The learned counsel for the petitioners submitted

that after numbering of the case as C.C.No.1027 of 2014, the

father of the second respondent, who was a Retired Navy

Officer approached the then Commissioner of Police and

influenced him to file the case against the petitioners No.4 to 9

also. Then the Commissioner of Police in turn instructed the

then Deputy Commissioner of Police, Malkajgiri division who

in turn instructed the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Uppal

to look into the issue and to file the charge sheet against the

petitioners No.4 to 9. On the said instructions, the Investigating

Officer without there being any specific reasons, or orders from 4 the concerned Court, and without filing any memo under Section 173 (8) of Cr.P.C., for further investigation, filed second

charge sheet on 22-01-2015 impleading the petitioners 4 to 9

including the petitioner No.8, who was a minor, aged about 16

years by then, on the basis of the recorded statements of LW9 to

LW12. Infact, none of the witnesses had any idea about the case

and they were totally strangers. Their evidence was only

hearsay, except the evidence of LW10 which was contrary to the

complaint. The action of the Investigating Officer in filing the

second charge sheet on 22-01-2015 was arbitrary, illegal and

contrary to the procedure contemplated under Sections 190 and

173 (8) of Cr.P.C. 06. The second charge sheet though titled as

supplementary charge sheet was taken cognizance by the

learned III Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar,

Rangareddy District, on 03-02-2015 and was numbered as

C.C.No.407 of 2016 against the accused No.1 to 9. The minor

accused by name Syed Ruhee Asleema was shown as accused 5 No.8 in the said charge sheet. However, the Police filed a third

charge sheet on 16-09-2015 deleting the name of Syed Ruhee

Asleema. The witnesses LW4 to LW8 had given notarized

affidavits to the effect that they had not given any statements,

muchless any statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. before the

Police in the above case. Thus the Investigating Officer without

any investigation, without examining any witnesses, simply

prepared the statements in the Police Station and arrayed the

petitioners as the accused without therebeing any evidence. As

such the investigation done by the Investigating Officer was

only a paper investigation. 07. Learned Counsel for the petitioner further

submitted that the first petitioner had not taken even a single

pie, at the time of marriage, from the second respondent or her

parents. After the marriage of the second respondent with the

first petitioner, on the request of the second respondent, first

petitioner sent her for coaching to different institutions in

Hyderabad and Nandyal for preparing for competitive 6 examinations and bank examinations etc., by spending huge

amounts. If the petitioners were demanding additional money

and greedy for money, the first petitioner ought not to have

spent huge amounts on her. The problem started with the

second respondent and her father only after she joined as a

clerk in A.P.Mahesh Co-operative Bank. The allegations made

in the complaint, even if taken on their face value, would not

constitute any offence or make out any primafacie case against

the petitioners. 08. The learned counsel for petitioner further submitted

that where a criminal proceeding was manifestly attended with

malafides and where the proceedings were maliciously

instituted with an ulterior motive for wrecking vengeance on

the accused with a view to spite them due to private and

personal grudge, the criminal proceedings were liable to be

quashed. No primafaice case was made out against the

petitioners except a pre-planned action by the second

respondent. The father of the second respondent who was 7 retired from Navy used his influence and got filed the first and

second charge sheets without there being any evidence. The

father of the second respondent and the second respondent

declared to see the end of the petitioners and that the

petitioners No.4, 5, 6 and 9 would lose their jobs and come on to

roads, since they were Government employees. The second

respondent and her father were bent upon to harass the

petitioners, though the petitioners had not committed any

offence muchless, the offences alleged in the complaint and

prayed to quash the proceedings in C.C.No.1027 of 2014 and

C.C.No.407 of 2016 on the file of the learned III Metropolitan

Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District,

respectively. 09. The second respondent filed counter contending

that the complaint was filed basing on convincing evidence.

After thorough investigation, the charge sheet was filed against

the petitioners, basing on which, the learned III Metropolitan

Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District had 8 taken cognizance of the case. The Hon'ble Apex Court time and

again ruled that the extraordinary powers under Section 482 of

Cr.P.C., should be exercised judiciously only in rare cases to

quash the complaint. There was no delay in filing the case. She

gave complaint to the police immediately after she was necked

out from the matrimonial house. As FIR was not registered, she

was compelled to approach the learned III Metropolitan

Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District, by

filing a private complaint on 25-04-2014. A primafacie case was

made out and there was cogent evidence and witnesses to

prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. If the petitions were

allowed, serious injury could be caused to her who was already

a victim for the dowry harassment and prayed to dismiss the

petitions. 10. Heard the learned counsel for the petitioners

Sri.Purnachandra Reddy and the learned counsel for the second

respondent Sri.Sandeep Kumar Chakravarthy. 9 11. Perused the record. The record would disclose that

altogether three charge sheets were filed by the Police, after

investigation of the case under Section 156 (3) of Cr.P.C. In the

first charge sheet filed on 27-10-2014, the Investigating Officer

had shown the petitioners No.1 to 3 as accused No.1 to 3 and

deleted the names of the accused No.4 to 9 from the array of

accused and shown them under column No.13, names of the

accused persons not charge sheeted. 12. The Investigating Officer had stated that accused

No.2 and 3 were the parents of accused No.1, accused No.4, 5

and 9 were the brothers of accused No.1, accused No.8 was the

sister of accused No.1, accused No.6 was the wife of the accused

No.5 and accused No.7 was the wife of the accused No.4.

Accused No.1 and his parents were residing in the house as a

joint family, accused No.5 was a constable in Octopus,

unmarried and was residing separately and the remaining

accused were living separately since long time. It was further

stated that as per the evidence collected, by examining the 10 independent witnesses, primafacie, the involvement of accused

No.1 to 3 was only established and the involvement of accused

No.4 to 9 was not established during the course of

investigation. Hence their names were deleted from the list and

filed charge sheet against the accused No.1 to 3 under Section

498-A of Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry

Prohibition Act. Totally, 10 (ten) witnesses were cited in the list

of witnesses. The complainant was shown as LW1, the parents

of the complainant were cited as LW2 and LW3. LW4 to LW8

were shown as circumstantial witnesses. LW9 was the

Inspector of Police, who issued FIR and LW10 was the Sub-

Inspector of Police who investigated the case and filed charge

sheet. 13. Subsequently, without taking any permission from

the Court, the Investigating Officer conducted further

investigation and filed second charge sheet on 22-01-2015

showing it as a supplementary charge sheet against the accused

No.1 to 9 by citing LW1 to LW14 as witnesses in the case. Apart 11 from the witnesses examined as LW1 to LW8, additionally, he

got examined LW9 to LW12. 14. The same was also taken cognizance by the Court

and a separate number was allotted as C.C.No.407 of 2016.

Subsequently, again noticing that the accused No.8 was a

juvenile aged about 16 years, a third charge sheet was filed

mentioning it again as a supplementary charge sheet showing

the petitioners No.1 to 7 and 9 as the accused No.1 to 8 stating

that a separate charge sheet would be filed against juvenile in

conflict with law before the learned II Metropolitan Magistrate,

Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District. 15. As two separate cases are registered for the same

Cr.No.322 of 2014 of P.S.Uppal, Cyberabad, the petitioners filed

these two petitions, Criminal Petition No.13595 of 2016 and

Criminal Petition No.8699 of 2017, to quash both the cases. 16. Learned counsel for the petitioners contended that

the procedure adopted by the Police in investigating the case 12 and filing supplementary charge sheets, without taking

permission from the Court for conducting further investigation

and the Court taking cognizance of the said cases by allotting

separate numbers, were material irregularities. Where a

criminal proceeding was manifestly attended with malafides

and where the proceedings were maliciously instituted with an

ulterior motive for wrecking vengeance on the accused with a

view to spite them due to private and personal grudge, the

criminal proceedings were liable to be quashed, and relied on

the judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Kahkashan

Kausar @ Sonam and others Vs. State of Bihar and others1, TT.Antony Vs. State of Kerala and others2, Geeta Mehrotra

and another Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and another3, and Pritam Ashok Sadaphule and others Vs. State of Maharastra and another4. 17. Learned counsel for the respondents, on the other

hand, vehemently contended that the Police could conduct 1 2022 SCC Online SC 162 2 (2001 (6) SCC 181) 3 (2012) 10 SCC 741 4 2015 (11) SCC 769 13 further investigation under Section 173 (8) Cr.P.C. There was

no necessity of obtaining permission from the Court for

conducting further investigation and the same was absolutely

legal and valid. There were specific allegations against each of

the petitioners in the complaint given by the respondent No.2,

the complainant was subjected to physical and mental cruelty

by all the petitioners till she was necked out from the house on

17-04-2014 and relied upon the judgment of the High Court of

Allahabad in Dinesh Chand Dubey Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and another5, the judgment of Kerala High Court in P.Gopalakrishnan @ Dileep Vs. State of Kerala6 , and of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in R.A.H.Siguran Vs. Shankare Gowda alias Shankara and another7, State of Andhra Pradesh Vs. A.

S. Peter8 . Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Rama Chaudhary

Vs. State of Bihar9 and the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 5 Case: Application U/ S.482 Cr.P.C. No.18684 of 2005 of Allahabad High Court on 12-Dec-2019 6 Crl.Mc.No.803 of 2022 dated 08-03-2022 of Kerala High Court 7 AIR 2017 Supreme Court 5141 8 2008 (2) SCC 383 9 (2009) 6 Supreme Court Cases 346 14 Vinubhai Haribhai Malaviya and others Vs. State of Gujarat and another10. 18. In the light of the rival contentions of the learned

counsel for both the parties, the points to be considered in both

these petitions are: POINT No.1: 19. Section 173 of Cr.P.C. deals with the report of Police

Officer on completion of investigation. Section 173 of Cr.P.C. 10 2019 (LawSuit) SC 1753 15 prescribes that every investigation shall be completed without

unnecessary delay and as soon as it is completed, the Officer-in-

charge of the Police Station shall forward to a Magistrate

empowered to take cognizance of the offence on a Police

Report, in the form prescribed by the State Government. Section 173 (8) of Cr.P.C. is relevant to the present issue and it

reads as follows: 20. A report under Section 173 of Cr.P.C is normally the

end of the investigation. Sometimes, however, the Police

Officer may come across evidence after submitting the report

upon coming to a conclusion of guilty or innocence of the

accused, Section 173 (8) of Cr.P.C. provides that it is open to the 16 Investigating Agency to file supplementary charge sheet

notwithstanding that the Magistrate had taken cognizance of

the offence upon the Police report submitted under Sub-Section

(2). Further investigation is not barred and the Police can

proceed with further investigation even after filing the charge

sheet as per Section 173 (8) Cr.P.C. 21. The learned counsel for the respondent relied upon

the judgment of the Allahabad High Court in Dinesh Chand

Dubey Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and another11, wherein by

referring to various Judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court of

India it was held that: Court also held that if further investigation is 18 warranted, hands of investigating agency or Court
should not be tied down on the ground that further
investigation may delay the trial, since ultimate
object is to arrive at the truth. It also held that Section
173(8) of Cr.P.C. permits further investigation, and
even dehors any direction from the Court as such, it
is open to the police to conduct proper investigation,
even after the Court took cognizance of any offence on
the strength of a police report earlier submitted. It
also stated that if Head of the Police Department is
not satisfied, it is more good reason. Relevant extract
of the judgement reads as under:- 12. Supreme Court relied on an earlier decision in
Om Prakash Narang and another vs. State (Delhi
Admn.) AIR 1979 SC 1791 wherein it was held that
further investigation is not altogether ruled out
merely because cognizance has been taken by Court.
Court further said that: 13. The above judgement thus, clearly shows that
 power of further investigation of police under Section
 173(8) Cr.P.C. is not circumscribed or restricted and
 even dehorse any direction of the Court, such power
 can be exercised. However, if trial is going on, it is
 desirable that police should inform the Court and seek
 formal permission when fresh facts comes to light
 instead of keeping silence on the ground that trial will
 be delayed. Court, however, nowhere said that if
 matter is not brought to the notice of the Court,
 further investigation conducted will be illegal and
 vitiated in law." 22. After considering the judgments it was held therein

that: It was further held that: 23. The learned counsel for the respondent No.2 relied

upon the judgment of the Kerala High Court in P.Gopalakrishnan @ Dileep Vs. State of Kerala12 wherein it

was held that: In Abdul Latheef v. State of Kerala (2014
(3) KLT 905), a Division Bench of this Court
explained the decision of the Apex Court in Ram Lal
Narang (supra) as follows: It was further held thus: In State of A.P. v. A.S. Peter (AIR 2008 SC
1052), it was held thus: Again in Rama Chaudhary (supra), it was held
thus: However, in Vinay Tyagi (supra), the Apex
Court took the view as follows: 24. Further investigation is the privilege and
prerogative of the investigating officer. Permission for
it is only a formality. It is only as a matter of courtesy
that the investigating officer is required to inform the
court regarding the further investigation so as to
enable the court to decide the further action to be
taken in the case. In Ram Lal Narang (supra), the
Apex Court has only stated that it would ordinarily
be desirable that the police should inform the Court
and seek formal permission to make further
investigation. In Rama Chaudhary (supra)
and A.S.Peter (supra), the Apex Court has
categorically held that the law does not mandate
obtaining prior permission from the Magistrate for
further investigation and that carrying out further
investigation even after filing of the charge sheet is
the statutory right of the police. Vinay Tyagi (supra)
only recognizes the legal practice adopted by the
investigating agencies to seek permission of the court
for conducting further investigation [See Vigilance
and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Tvm v. K.Sasikala
and Others 2021 KHC 196]. In Ram Lal
Narang (supra), the Apex Court held that absence of 24 permission by the court does not render the further
investigation illegal." 24. It was further held that: 25. The Hon'ble Apex Court in R.A.H.Siguran Vs.

Shankare Gowda alias Shankara and another13 held that: 26. The Hon'ble Apex Court in State of Andhra

Pradesh Vs. A. S. Peter14 made a distinction between further

investigation and re-investigation and stated that the Police can

further investigate and add other accused and for making

further investigation permission of the Court is not required,

however, the Police cannot make re-investigation without

permission of the Court. It was held that: evidence obtained during such investigation." 27. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Rama Chaudhary Vs.

State of Bihar15 approved the above observation and held that: 14 A mere reading of the above provision makes it clear
that irrespective of report under sub-section (2)
forwarded to the Magistrate, if the officer in-charge of
the police station obtains further evidence, it is
incumbent on his part to forward the same to the
Magistrate with a further report with regard to such
evidence in the form prescribed. The above said provision also makes it clear that
further investigation is permissible, however,
reinvestigation is prohibited. The law does not
mandate taking of prior permission from the
Magistrate for further investigation. Carrying out a
further investigation even after filing of the charge-
sheet is a statutory right of the police. Reinvestigation
without prior permission is prohibited. On the other
hand, further investigation is permissible.

From a plain reading of sub-section (2) and sub-
section (8) of Section 173, it is evident that even after
submission of police report under sub-section (2) on
completion of investigation, the police has a right to 28 "further" investigation under sub-section (8)
 of Section 173 but not "fresh investigation" or
 "reinvestigation". The meaning of "Further" is
 additional; more; or supplemental. "Further"
 investigation, therefore, is the continuation of the
 earlier investigation and not a fresh investigation or
 reinvestigation to be started ab initio wiping out the
 earlier investigation altogether. Sub- section (8)
 of Section 173 clearly envisages that on completion of
 further investigation, the investigating agency has to
 forward to the Magistrate a "further" report and not
 fresh report regarding the "further" evidence obtained
 during such investigation. As observed in Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi vs. State
 of Gujarat and Others , (2004) 5 SCC 347, the prime
 consideration for further investigation is to arrive at
 the truth and do real and substantial justice. The
 hands of investigating agency for further
 investigation should not be tied down on the ground
 of mere delay. In other words, the mere fact that there
 may be further delay in concluding the trial should
 not stand in the way of further investigation if that
 would help the court in arriving at the truth and do
 real and substantial as well as effective justice." 28. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Vinubhai Haribhai

Malaviya and others Vs. State of Gujarat and another16 held

that: 38. There is no good reason given by the Court
in these decisions as to why a Magistrate's powers to
order further investigation would suddenly cease
upon process being issued, and an accused appearing
before the Magistrate, while concomitantly, the power
of the police to further investigate the offence
continues right till the stage the trial commences.
Such a view would not accord with the earlier
judgments of this Court, in particular, Sakiri (supra),
Samaj Parivartan Samudaya (supra), Vinay Tyagi (supra), and Hardeep Singh (supra); Hardeep Singh
(supra) having clearly held that a criminal trial does
not begin after cognizance is taken, but only after
charges are framed. What is not given any
importance at all in the recent judgments of this
Court is Article 21 of the Constitution and the fact
that the Article demands no less than a fair and just
investigation. To say that a fair and just investigation
would lead to the conclusion that the police retain the
power, subject, of course, to the Magistrate's nod
under Section 173(8) to further investigate an offence
till charges are framed, but that the supervisory
jurisdiction of the Magistrate suddenly ceases mid-
way through the pre-trial proceedings, would amount
to a travesty of justice, as certain cases may cry out
for further investigation so that an innocent person is
not wrongly arraigned as an accused or that a prima
facie guilty person is not so left out. There is no
warrant for such a narrow and restrictive view of the
powers of the Magistrate, particularly when such
powers are traceable to Section 156(3) read
with Section 156(1), Section 2(h) , and Section
173(8) of the CrPC, as has been noticed hereinabove,
and would be available at all stages of the progress of
a criminal case before the trial actually commences. It
would also be in the interest of justice that this power
be exercised suo motu by the Magistrate himself,
depending on the facts of each case. Whether further 31 investigation should or should not be ordered is
 within the discretion of the learned Magistrate who
 will exercise such discretion on the facts of each case
 and in accordance with law. If, for example, fresh
 facts come to light which would lead to inculpating or
 exculpating certain persons, arriving at the truth and
 doing substantial justice in a criminal case are more
 important than avoiding further delay being caused
 in concluding the criminal proceeding, as was held in Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi (supra). Therefore, to the
 extent that the judgments in Amrutbhai Shambubhai
 Patel (supra), Athul Rao (supra) and Bikash Ranjan
 Rout (supra) have held to the contrary, they stand
 overruled. Needless to add, Randhir Singh Rana v.
 State (Delhi Administration ) ( 1997) 1 SCC 361
 and Reeta Nag v. State of West Bengal and Ors. (2009) 9 SCC 129 also stand overruled. 29. On a perusal of the above judgments of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India, it is explicitly clear that the

Investigating Officer can conduct further investigation of the

case and file supplementary charge sheet with or without the

permission of the Court. Hence Point No.1 is answered

accordingly. POINT No.2: 30. Sub-Section (8) of Section 173 of Cr.P.C envisages

that on completion of further investigation the Investigating

Agency has to forward a report to the Magistrate. 32 31. The learned III Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad

at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District, treated the supplementary

charge sheet filed on 22-01-2015 as a separate chargesheet and

had taken cognizance of the same and allotted a separate

number i.e., C.C.No.407 of 2016, even though there was an

earlier case registered vide C.C.No.1027 of 2014 for the same

crime number. 32. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Vinay Tyagi Vs. Irshad

Ali @ Deepak and others17 held that Investigating agency is

competent to file a report supplementary to its primary report

but the latter was to be treated by Court in continuation of the

former report. The Court treating the supplementary charge

sheet as a separate charge sheet, is considered as a material

irregularity. Supplementary charge sheet filed on 22-01-2015

ought to have been treated as part and parcel of C.C.No.1027 of

2014. As the appearance of the petitioners is sought in

C.C.No.407 of 2016 apart from C.C.No.1027 of 2014 treating 17 (2013) 5 SCC 762 33 them as two separate cases and the Court is summoning the

petitioners to undergo trial in both cases separately, to prevent

abuse of process of Court, it is considered fit to quash the

proceedings in C.C.No.407 of 2016 on the file of the learned III

Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy

District. POINT No.3: 33. The contention of the learned counsel for the

respondent No.2 was that there were specific allegations made

against each of the accused in the above case and the allegations

had to be tested in the trial by recording the evidence and the

petition to quash could not be entertained. 34. The contention of the learned counsel for the

petitioners, on the other hand, was that no primafaice case was

made out even if all the allegations in the complaint were taken

to be true on their face value and the charges were liable to be

quashed against the petitioners. 35. Hence it is considered fit to consider the allegations

made by the respondent No.2 in the complaint made against

the petitioners. The complainant stated in her complaint under

separate headings for each of the accused persons, the manner

of harassment meted out to her in their hands. She made

several allegations against the accused No.1 by mentioning

them alphabetically from A to X. Likewise she also made

allegations against accused No.2 and 3 but as they were all

residing together in one house as per the first charge sheet filed

by the Police, the veracity of the same can be tested during the

trial. This Court cannot make a roving enquiry into all the

allegations made by her whether they would attract the offence

under Section 498-A of IPC or not. 36. The respondent No.2 made the following

allegations against accused No.4 and 5: 37. The respondent No.2 made the following

allegations against accused No.6: The respondent No.2 made the following allegations

against accused No.7: When her dad ask about the surety for that he is not
ready like to give. 15. 12-11-2013 (11:13AM) her dad called
Guruswamy (+918332969016 & 9704979202) and
said I will live my daughter in his house in the
presence of my brother on Friday) and the same thing
he inform to Ramana at around (11:20AM). 16. 15-11-2013 - I was send to his house
(Ramanthpur) as SI Guruswamy said that he will
keep her in separate room. 17. 16-Nov-2013 (13-55PM) My dad called Ameer
and said about Rs.10,000/- which I have to pay at the
time of joining, at that time he said I did not have
money. 18. Whenever they are harassing me and when my
parents are calling him and his father, mom they will
not respond to it. 19. Ameer and his mom will say to me, if you are
 going to office, then I will tell your staff to harass you
 and tell street people to rag you. 20. He himself sent me to Nandyal but neither he
 came there to take them nor he took luggage from
 Nandyal. But on 16-12-2013 my dad took luggage
 from Nandyal. 21. To do anything always I have restrictious."

 The respondent No.2 made the following allegations

against accused No.9: 17. Recently, in K. Subba Rao v. The State of
Telangana , it was also observed that: 18. The above-mentioned decisions clearly
demonstrate that this court has at numerous
instances expressed concern over the misuse of section
498A IPC and the increased tendency of implicating
relatives of the husband in matrimonial disputes,
without analysing the long term ramifications of a
trial on the complainant as well as the accused. It is
further manifest from the said judgments that false
implication by way of general omnibus allegations
made in the course of matrimonial dispute, if left
unchecked would result in misuse of the process of
law. Therefore, this court by way of its judgments has
warned the courts from proceeding against the
relatives and in-laws of the husband when no prima
facie case is made out against them. 22. Therefore, upon consideration of the
relevant circumstances and in the absence of any 45 specific role attributed to the accused appellants, it
 would be unjust if the Appellants are forced to go
 through the tribulations of a trial, i.e., general and
 omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a situation
 where the relatives of the complainants husband are
 forced to undergo trial. It has been highlighted by this
 court in varied instances, that a criminal trial leading
 to an eventual acquittal also inflicts severe scars upon
 the accused, and such an exercise must therefore be
 discouraged." 42. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Pritam

Ashok Sadaphule and others Vs. State of Maharashtra and

another19 held that: 43. Considering the allegations leveled by the

complainant against these petitioners in her complaint, they do

not appear to be serious enough but were incorporated to

harass the entire family to settle her personal scores with them. 19 (2015) 11 Supreme Court Cases 769 46 Hence it is considered fit to quash the charges against the

petitioners No.4 to 8 for the offences under Section 498-A of

Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition

Act, taken cognizance against them in C.C.No.1027 of 2014 on

the file of learned III Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB

Nagar, Rangareddy District. 44. In the result, the Criminal Petition No.8699 of 2017

is allowed quashing the proceedings against all the petitioners

in C.C.No.407 of 2016 on the file of the learned III Metropolitan

Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy District. Criminal Petition No.13595 of 2016 is allowed-in-part

quashing the proceedings against the petitioners Nos.4,5,6,7

and 9 in C.C.No.1027 of 2014 on the file of the learned III

Metropolitan Magistrate, Cyberabad at LB Nagar, Rangareddy

District. The Criminal Petition is dismissed against the

petitioners/accused No.1 to 3 and the veracity of allegations

made against them can be decided during the course of trial. 47 As a sequel, the Miscellaneous Petitions, pending if any,

shall stand closed. __________________________
 Dr.G. RADHA RANI, J
Date:13.06.2022
KHRM 48 49 THE HONOURABLE Dr. JUSTICE G. RADHA RANI

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.13595 OF 2016
 &
 CRIMINAL PETITION No.8699 OF 2017

 ............2022
KHRM