SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My brother fell victim to transport scam, cyber cell helped, local police isn’t 
DATE: 2024-05-03
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1cj8v2g/my_brother_fell_victim_to_transport_scam_cyber/

--- POST TEXT ---

He was looking for transportation of 20 tonnes of wheat (we run a business of selling packed atta). Found Vishal Transport on google search. 

Contacted the phone number mentioned and they confirmed that they can transport. They asked for 25% advance. We asked for an invoice or proforma invoice (usually this is good enough). GST and company info checked out on the GST dashboard. Catch here is the scammer doesn’t work for Vishal Transport. He had the template of invoice from Vishal Transport. 

We asked for payment details and they said they’re having issues with bank account, so please pay via UPI. This is somewhat red flag but sometimes small business owners do this. Accept payment to their personal UPI instead of company account (in case of proprietor). 

The UPI address was unfortunately some fraud account. After making the 11,250/- payment to that address, the scammer started making various excuses. My brother sent me that UPI qrcode and I found that it was already unlinked by the scammer. Address was transportservice161-4@okicici

That’s when it was confirmed that it was a scam. We quickly reported to cyber cell on 1930. In half an hour we received confirmation that the bank account that was linked with that UPI was was put on freeze and Rs 310 was put on hold. (Only balance it had). Scammer had already withdrawn the amount from ATM.

All this was yesterday. Today we went to nearest police station for further help (as suggested on phone by cyber cell dept). Local police was like forget your money now. Scammer has withdrawn cash. We can’t do anything. We asked them to identify the person through ATM camera and bank KYC. Police response was that he has 500+ such cases pending. Nothing is happening. Scammers are roaming free. His language was like “To mein jake ATM ka video se pakad ke lau tumhare scammer ko?” 

I mean we expect them to catch scammers, with that attitude they’re never catching anyone. 

We are currently helpless. At this point, it’s not about money, it’s about online safety. Yes, we made a mistake of sending payment via UPI, but it’s so common in our business. Is there anyone who can connect me with someone from cyber cell who can help push the case to bring down such scammers? I’m fully motivated to work as cyber cell volunteer. I do have the software and security background but not sure where to start.