% 07.02.2026 1. By way of the present petition under Section 528 of the Bharatiya
 Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 ["BNSS"] (corresponding to Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 [" CrPC "]), the petitioner seeks
 quashing of FIR No. 397/2025 dated 09.12.2025, registered under Sections 64(2) (corresponding to Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code,
 1860 [" IPC "]) and 351(2) (corresponding to Section 506 of the IPC) of
 the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 ["BNS"] at Police Station Janakpuri,
 District West, New Delhi, on the ground of settlement between the
 parties. 2. The principal allegations in the FIR, registered at the instance of
 respondent No. 2, are that the petitioner and respondent No. 2 were
 introduced, through their families, for the purpose of marriage. However, W.P.(CRL) 57/2026 Page 1 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 after establishing a physical relationship on the basis of such an
 understanding, the petitioner declined to marry respondent No. 2. 3. Quashing of the FIR is now sought on the ground that the parties
 have resolved their differences, leading to the marriage between the
 petitioner and respondent No. 2 having taken place on 23.12.2025. A
 marriage certificate dated 24.12.2025, issued by the office of the Sub-
 Registrar, Kanpur Nagar Zone-1, certifying the marriage on 23.12.2025,
 has been placed on record and verified by the Investigating Officer. 4. Respondent No. 2 has also filed an affidavit dated 05.01.2026,
 confirming her marriage to the petitioner and stating that she has no
 grievance against him. She has specifically affirmed the voluntary nature
 of the marriage and accorded her no objection to quashing of the
 impugned FIR. 5. The petitioner and respondent No. 2 were present before the Court
 on 02.02.2026, when the following order was passed: 6. I have heard Mr. Manoj Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner,
 and Ms. Rupali Bandhopadhya, learned Additional Standing Counsel for
 the State, on the question of whether an FIR can be quashed in these
 circumstances. 7. While the judgments of the Supreme Court inter alia in Gian Singh W.P.(CRL) 57/2026 Page 2 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 v. State of Punjab and Anr.1 and Narinder Singh and Ors. v. State of
 Punjab and Anr.2, make it clear that allegations of a heinous nature,
 including rape, are not ordinarily amenable to quashing, some exceptions
 do appear to have been carved out. 8. The Supreme Court, in Kapil Gupta v. State (NCT of Delhi )3 and Madhukar v. State of Maharashtra4 , quashed FIRs inter alia under Section 376 of the IPC. While neither of these cases involved a marriage
 between the prosecutrix and the accused, the observations of the Court
 make it clear that there is room for the exercise of discretion. The
 following observations in Kapil Gupta are relevant for this purpose: 2025 SCC OnLine SC 1415. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 weapons used, etc. Medical report in respect of injuries suffered by
 the victim can generally be the guiding factor. On the basis of this
 prima facie analysis, the High Court can examine as to whether
 there is a strong possibility of conviction or the chances of
 conviction are remote and bleak. In the former case it can refuse to
 accept the settlement and quash the criminal proceedings whereas
 in the latter case it would be permissible for the High Court to
 accept the plea compounding the offence based on complete
 settlement between the parties. At this stage, the Court can also be
 swayed by the fact that the settlement between the parties is going
 to result in harmony between them which may improve their future
 relationship. 29.7. While deciding whether to exercise its power under Section 482 of the Code or not, timings of settlement play a crucial
 role. Those cases where the settlement is arrived at immediately
 after the alleged commission of offence and the matter is still under
 investigation, the High Court may be liberal in accepting the
 settlement to quash the criminal proceedings/investigation. It is
 because of the reason that at this stage the investigation is still on
 and even the charge-sheet has not been filed. Likewise, those cases
 where the charge is framed but the evidence is yet to start or the
 evidence is still at infancy stage, the High Court can show
 benevolence in exercising its powers favourably, but after prima
 facie assessment of the circumstances/material mentioned above.
 On the other hand, where the prosecution evidence is almost
 complete or after the conclusion of the evidence the matter is at the
 stage of argument, normally the High Court should refrain from
 exercising its power under Section 482 of the Code, as in such
 cases the trial court would be in a position to decide the case
 finally on merits and to come to a conclusion as to whether the
 offence under Section 307IPC is committed or not. Similarly, in
 those cases where the conviction is already recorded by the trial
 court and the matter is at the appellate stage before the High
 Court, mere compromise between the parties would not be a
 ground to accept the same resulting in acquittal of the offender
 who has already been convicted by the trial court. Here charge is
 proved under Section 307IPC and conviction is already recorded
 of a heinous crime and, therefore, there is no question of sparing a
 convict found guilty of such a crime." 12. It can thus be seen that this Court has clearly held that though the
 Court should be slow in quashing the proceedings wherein heinous
 and serious offences are involved, the High Court is not foreclosed
 from examining as to whether there exists material for incorporation of
 such an offence or as to whether there is sufficient evidence which if W.P.(CRL) 57/2026 Page 4 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 proved would lead to proving the charge for the offence charged with.
 The Court has also to take into consideration as to whether the
 settlement between the parties is going to result into harmony between
 them which may improve their mutual relationship. 13. The Court has further held that it is also relevant to consider as to
 what is the stage of the proceedings. It has been observed that if an
 application is made at a belated stage wherein the evidence has been
 led and the matter is at the stage of arguments or judgment, the Court
 should be slow to exercise the power to quash the proceedings.
 However, if such an application is made at an initial stage before
 commencement of trial, the said factor will weigh with the court in
 exercising its power." 9. In both these cases, there were cross FIRs between the parties, and
 the Court exercised its discretion to quash the proceedings. 10. In Jatin Agarwal v. State of Telangana and Anr.5 also, the accused
 and the prosecutrix were introduced through a matrimonial app, and the
 FIR was lodged upon refusal of the accused to solemnise the marriage,
 after having established a physical relationship on such a promise. The
 High Court was approached after the parties had married each other, but
 dismissed the petition. The Supreme Court exercised its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to quash the FIR, having satisfied itself
 that the prosecutrix had married the accused voluntarily, and that she did
 not wish to press the FIR. 11. Close to the facts of the present case is a judgment of a coordinate
 Bench of this Court in Amit Plathia v. State (NCT of Delhi)6, wherein also
 the FIR had been registered under Section 376 of the IPC. The
 prosecutrix alleged that a sexual relationship was established between her
 and the accused upon a promise of marriage. The FIR was lodged upon a 5 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1969 [hereinafter, "Jatin Agarwal"]. 2024 SCC OnLine Del 9158 [hereinafter, "Amit Plathia"]. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 refusal of the accused to solemnise the marriage. This Court, however,
 referring to the judgments of the Supreme Court, including Kapil Gupta
 and Jatin Agarwal, as well as several earlier authorities of this Court7,
 held as follows: 12. Ms. Bandhopadhya has, however, drawn my attention to another
 coordinate Bench decision in Shafeeq Ahmad v. State (NCT of Delhi )8, in
 which the Court refused to exercise its discretion to quash proceedings
 under Section 376 , despite a compromise between the prosecutrix and the
 accused. The allegations in the FIR were that the prosecutrix was already
 married, but was pursued by the accused, who lived near her parental
 home. He professed love for her and established a physical relationship,
 which she alleged was under force and threats. She also alleged that he
 had thereafter threatened to kill her. The Court's reasoning for declining
 to quash the proceedings was as follows: "13. The court, exercising inherent powers on such issues must strike
 delicate balance between abovementioned rival possibilities. And for
 that, it is necessary to take the complaint through full dress trial. 14. Present is not an ordinary case of a love affair having gone awry.
 It is also not a case, where the accused induced the victim into sexual
 relations through misrepresentation of false promise to marry. 15. Present is a case where the prosecutrix alleges that Petitioner 1
 initially made her believe that he would die if she did not reciprocate
 his love for her; that thereafter Petitioner 1 established sexual
 relations with her against her consent; that not just this, Petitioner 1
 also clicked her nude pictures and videos; that Petitioner 1 repeatedly
 raped her and blackmailed her into obtaining divorce from her
 husband, with whom she had two children; that after she obtained
 divorce, even Petitioner 2 molested her and when she brought this to
 the notice of Petitioner 1, he beat her up and abandoned her after 8 2025 SCC OnLine Del 2796 [hereinafter, "Shafeeq Ahmad"]. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 threatening to circulate her pictures and videos, if she disclosed all
 that to anyone; that Petitioner 1 got her pregnancy aborted; that
 Petitioner 1 not just repeatedly beat her up, he even sodomised her
 against her consent, causing immense pain and injury." [Emphasis supplied.] 13. I am of the view that Shafeeq Ahmad turns on facts somewhat
 different from the facts of the present case. Like in Amit Plathia, the FIR
 in the present case was clearly predicated upon an allegation of false
 promise of marriage; in fact, the petitioner and the prosecutrix were stated
 to have met through their families for the purposes of marriage, and the
 FIR was registered at a time when the petitioner allegedly declined to
 marry the prosecutrix. This narrative aligns closely with the facts in Jatin
 Agarwal and Amit Plathia. 14. As far as the stage of trial in the present case is concerned, Ms.
 Bandhopadhya states that although the investigation has been completed,
 the chargesheet has not yet been filed. 15. Having regard to the aforesaid facts and circumstances, and the
 precedents cited above, I am of the view that this is a fit case to exercise
 discretionary powers conferred on this Court under Section 528 of the
 BNSS, to quash the criminal proceedings. Such an order would enure to
 the benefit of both the parties, and enable them to establish a peaceful and
 harmonious domestic life. Despite the seriousness of the offence, the facts
 do not disclose such elements of public interest or heinous criminality, as
 to necessitate the criminal proceedings to be carried to their logical
 conclusion. 16. The petition is, therefore, allowed, and FIR No. 397/2025, dated
 09.12.2025, registered under Section 64(2) / 351(2) of the BNS, at Police W.P.(CRL) 57/2026 Page 8 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04
 Station Janakpuri, District West, New Delhi, alongwith consequential
 proceedings emanating therefrom, is hereby quashed. 17. The petition stands disposed of. PRATEEK JALAN, J
 FEBRUARY 7, 2026
 'Bhupi/KA'/ W.P.(CRL) 57/2026 Page 9 of 9 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/02/2026 at 20:46:04