he made an application before the Officer Incharge stating
therein that the informant was terminated from Dristi Netralaya on
06.07.2015 where she was working as Optometric and she was insisting
for the service in the said Hospital. She has sent several message and the
petitioner has been falsely implicated. It is further submitted that a
representation was made before the Senior Superintendent of Police,
 Ranchi by the wife of the petitioner, copy has been annexed as annexure-2
to this application. It is further submitted that the alleged mobile along
with SIM card was verified, the matter would have been crystal clear that
no such video recording has been made by the petitioner. It is further
submitted that statement of the prosecutrix has been recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C on 13.10.2015 wherein she has narrated the different
story and from perusal of the said statement, it will appear that the same
is absolutely manufactured and even if it is accepted to be true then it was
well with her about the consent. It is further submitted that the informant
was introduced with the petitioner since December, 2012 and
subsequently, she left the VASAN EYE CARE in June, 2013 and joined with
the petitioner in July, 2013. It appears that because of the consent of the
informant itself she left the service of VASAN EYE CARE and joined to P.
Narayan Netralaya and subsequent to DRISTI Netralaya where the
petitioner is working and this itself signifies that all action was taken with
her consent, so no case under section 376 I.P.C is made out against the
petitioner. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that wife of
the petitioner has filed an application before the S.S.P. Ranchi for making
proper enquiry in a false case lodged by Ankita Chakraberty against her
husband for blackmailing and extortion and stated that her husband was
working in "Dristi Netralaya" Hospital, Kathal More, Ranchi as Eye
Specialist and in the said hospital Ankita Chakraborty, the complainant
was also working as Optometrist but she was terminated from her service
the management on 06.07.2015 due to her ill behavior. So, the petitioner,
deserves anticipatory bail. Learned A.P.P has appeared and has filed the counter affidavit and
also produce the case diary. Learned A.P.P referring to para 3 (Re), 4, 5, 9,
34 (164 Cr.P.C by victim) and para 50 of the case diary has submitted that
witnesses have also fully supported the case of prosecution. Learned A.P.P
referring to para 178 of 2nd case diary in which statement of one Sanjeev
Kumar Singh has been recorded has submitted that this witness has
supported the case, so petitioner does not deserve anticipatory bail. Learned counsel for the informant has appeared and opposes the
prayer for anticipatory bail and has submitted that the informant in her
statement under section 164 Cr.P.C has supported the case, so considering
the nature of offence, the petitioner does not deserve anticipatory bail. Taking all these facts, I am inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the
petitioner. Accordingly, the above named petitioner is directed to
surrender in the Court below within four weeks from the date of this order
and in the event of his arrest or surrender the Court below shall enlarge
the above named petitioner on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 10,000/-
(Rupees ten thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the
 satisfaction of Sri M.K. Sharma, learned Judicial Magistrate, Ranchi, in
 connection with Lower Bazar P.S. Case No. 300 of 2015, corresponding to
 G.R. No.5403 of 2015, subject to the conditions as laid down under Section
 438(2) of the Cr.P.C and also subject to the condition that the petitioner
 shall deposit rupees two lacs before the court below on the date of his
 surrender. Thereafter, the court below shall issue notice to the informant
 and after her appearance, the court below shall release the aforesaid
 amount in her favour after making proper verification. Deposition of
 aforesaid amount will not affect the case of petitioner during trial. (Anant Bijay Singh, J.)
Satyarthi/