The government should consider whether a service requires ultra-reliable low-latency machine-to-machine (M2M) connectivity with very high availability before classifying it as a critical M2M service, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) says. This comes as part of TRAI’s recommendations on critical M2M services, for which it had consulted stakeholders in June last year .

Machine-to-machine includes technologies that allow wired and wireless devices to communicate with each other. M2M technologies use a device (sensor, meter, etc.) to capture an ‘event’ (motion, meter reading, temperature, etc.). This event then goes through a network (wireless, wired, or hybrid) to an application that translates it into meaningful information. Besides factoring in whether an M2M service needs low-latency connectivity when determining critical M2M, the government should also check whether a disruption in connectivity for this service would have a debilitating impact on national security, economy, or public safety.

In 2017 , TRAI had recommended that the government should identify critical M2M services and ensure that only licensed spectrum users offer these services. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) accepted the recommendation, and in March 2021, an inter-ministerial working group identified 20 critical M2M services, including drones, financial transactions, and safety and surveillance applications.

Afterwards, DoT consulted with stakeholders and noted that the criticality of services should be use case driven. It also noted opposition to the plans to restrict M2M services to spectrum holders. Further, from the consultation, DoT also noted that with the growing demand for interconnected devices, bringing M2M devices and Internet of Things (IoT) devices under the trusted source-trusted product regulation can enhance the security posture of critical infrastructure sectors. IoT devices are a related concept to M2M, the key difference being that while M2M focuses on connecting devices to each other, IoT looks at connecting devices to the internet. Factoring these points in, the government asked TRAI to revisit its 2017 recommendations.

While establishing the twin test for identifying critical IoT/M2M services, the regulator emphasised that this identification is necessary to allow user agencies (those using IoT/M2M to deliver critical services to users) to enter into service-level agreements with telecom companies. Through these agreements, the agencies will be able to hold telecom companies accountable for ensuring that the M2M connectivity they are providing meets requisite telecommunication service performance parameters (such as latency, reliability, and availability).

TRAI says that identifying critical IoT and M2M services will require sector-specific and application-specific insights. As such, the Ministry/government agencies associated with a specific sector (in consultation with DoT) would be best suited to identify critical services. The authority argues that to avoid all IoT services from having unnecessarily stringent performance requirements, the government should consider identifying ‘critical’ services at the application level instead of the domain level.

This basically means that instead of declaring that all IoT devices in an entire domain, say healthcare or defence, are critical, the government should look at specific IoT applications within the domain and decide which of those are critical.

To help ministries decide which services they should classify as critical, TRAI suggests that the DoT should devise an institutional mechanism that includes the following aspects:

This standing committee should recommend what constitutes a critical service and also the service performance benchmarks for each critical IoT service. Based on these recommendations specific ministry/regulatory body should notify the regulatory requirements for each critical IoT service separately.

TRAI notes that today, both licensed and unlicensed spectrum are used for critical machine-to-machine communication. During the consultation process, stakeholders told the regulator that as a result of technological developments and the availability of additional unlicensed spectrum, both licensed and unlicensed spectrum offer matching reliability, arguing in favour of non-licensed spectrum use for M2M. Others supported the limitation of critical M2M for licensed spectrum users and told TRAI that limiting M2M services for licensed spectrum users because of the reduced risk of interference. Those supporting licensed spectrum use also argued that the regulator should consider the fact that licensed spectrum users have end-to-end secure networks.

Based on these comments, TRAI held that a user agency implementing critical IoT service should compare different M2M communication options (licensed spectrum, unlicensed spectrum, and wireline) and evaluate both based on technical performance and costs. They should then select the one that provides the best balance of service quality and affordability for their critical IoT needs. It emphasises that the government should allow critical IoT services to use any M2M communication technology, whether it uses licensed spectrum or not, as long as it meets the required performance standards.

Different stakeholders suggested different approaches to securing critical IoT services. Some stated that TRAI should bring these services under the trusted sources mandate, given the increasing prevalence of cybersecurity threats. They suggested that the trusted sources mandate would help verify the origin of IoT/M2M devices and their components and reduce the risk of supply chain attacks.

The DoT introduced the trusted sources mandate in 2021 in the context of networking equipment. This simply meant that telcos can only use networking equipment that bears a trusted sources mark , a mark which the government notably did not give to Chinese firms Huawei and ZTE. To get equipment from companies outside the trusted source list, telcos need government permission.

Certain stakeholders argued that only public sector M2Ms (which relate to utilities, traffic, and security) should fall within the trusted sources framework. Other M2M services, which use unlicensed spectrum, should have a much lighter regulatory regime, if at all. Some stakeholders have argued that putting all machine-to-machine devices under the trusted source framework will delay the uptake of M2M services.

In 2017, TRAI had recommended that DoT should ask device manufacturers to implement a security by design principle in M2M manufacturing so that end-to-end encryption can be achieved. It also suggested that the government should come up with comprehensive guidelines for manufacturing /importing machine-to-machine devices in India and also create a national trust centre for certifying M2M devices. Based on the 2017 recommendations, the Telecommunication and Engineering Centre came out with a technical report on the framework for the national trust centre in March 2022 .

TRAI notes that the government has already taken steps to impose mandatory testing and certification requirements on all original equipment manufacturers. Six telecom products belonging to the IoT and M2M domain, including IoT gateway, human and pet tracking devices, etc., are also required to comply with mandatory testing requirements. The government is also considering implementing the national trust centre as suggested in the 2017 recommendations.

Given the security concerns surrounding privacy concerns, TRAI suggests that the government should implement mandatory testing and certification requirements for the M2M modules embedded in all IoT devices deployed in critical sectors. The government can further notify testing requirements for remaining IoTs at a later stage.

The regulator says that DoT should establish a framework for the transfer of M2M service provider registration/authorisation to an entity established in situations of merger, demerger and acquisition of machine-to-machine service providers (M2MSP). The DoT should also allow the transfer of ownership of M2M SIMs from M2MSP to another, provided that:

After the transfer is complete, the telecom provider should quickly update its database to reflect the new ownership of the machine-to-machine SIMs. The new owner should also maintain the updated details of physical custodians of machines fitted with M2M SIMs it obtained from the original owner.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event