: 2. The CPIO furnished a reply to the Appellant on 06.12.2023 stating as under: police station with regard to the or interest. Since the information
 fraudulent activities of the firm sought by the assessee has no
 and the copy of the police relationship to any public activity
 complaint has also been or interest and it is not
 provided by the assesee with RTI mandatory disclosure of such
 wherein it has been clearly information and hereby it is
 mentioned by the assessee that rejected. On perusal of police complaint it Page 2 of 8 is clearly mentioned that
 applicant is filing complaint in
 order to safeguard himself. 3. Being dissatisfied, the appellant filed a First Appeal dated 11.12.2023. The
 FAA vide its order dated 09.01.2024, held as under. 2. The petitioner could not make out any case with evidence that there is
satisfaction that the larger public interest justifies the disclosure of such
information. This decision is passed also by relying on the following
judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court: 3. In the light of above, the appeal of the petitioner stand disposed off as
 rejected." 4. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, appellant approached the Commission
 with the instant Second Appeal. 5. A written submission dated 15.05.2025 filed by the Appellant is taken on
 record. Contents of the same are reproduced below for ready reference: As per Section 276C, if a taxpayer willfully attempts to evade tax or under-
report income with the amount exceeding Rs 25 lakh, it invites imprisonment
for a term of at least six months up to seven years along with a fine.
As the appellant is directly effected and Income tax evasion is in public interest
hence public interest disclosure outweighs confidentiality in cases like evasion,
fraud etc. The copy of Tax Evasion Petition is Annexed as ANNEXURE C 6. The Managing partner on 19.09.2024 stated that the Bank account of the
partnership firm are now closed. Mr. Sushil Prabhakar has not denied
functioning and using the assets of the firm M/s Sham Enterprises when the
accounts of the firm are closed. This may create Tax Evasion from the Account
of the firm M/s Sham Enterprises and also GST evasion from the firm. It creates
a. Issuing Fake invoices: Punishment upto 5 years imprisonment and fine
b. Supplying goods without issuing invoices leads to tax suppression
c. Collecting GST but not depositing to Govt d. Falsification to maintain
accounts
GST offences above Rs 5 Cr. Are non-bailable and cognizable.
LEGAL SUBMISSION: 7. The Appellant's representative while inviting attention of the Commission
 towards the contents of their written submission contended that the
 information has been wrongly denied by the CPIO under Section 8 (1)(j) of
 the RTI Act ignoring the fact that Appellant is one of the partners of the
 partnership firm regarding which he has sought information. He further
 contended that since he already lodged a TEP (Tax Evasion Petition) against
 the defaulting partner, therefore, he has a right to access the ITRs of the
 firm to corroborate evidence in his petition. He prayed the Commission to
 intervene in the matter. 8. The Respondent remained absent during hearing despite prior intimation. Decision: 9. The Commission, after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case,
 hearing both the parties and perusal of the records, observes that blanket
 denial of information by the Respondent under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act
 without seeking consent of the third party under Section 11 of the RTI Act, is
 not appropriate since the Appellant has sought information pertaining to a
 partnership firm in which he is also one of the partners. Under the very
 specific and special circumstances of the present case involving a dispute
 between the partners having a proper partnership deed and one of them
 alleging tax evasion, the disclosure of such information does not infringe
 privacy on any third party's interest and instead appears to serve a larger
 public purpose. 10.In view of the above and considering the prayer of the appellant during
 hearing, the Appellant is advised to provide/submit a copy of his written Page 7 of 8 submission along with copy of partnership deed before the Respondent
 Public Authority, within one week of the date of receipt of this order. On
 receipt of the same, the Respondent is directed to provide the revised
 updated reply along with CTC of ITR statements of M/s Sham Enterprises for
 the period as mentioned in the RTI application, free of cost, within four
 weeks from the date of receipt of the documents from the Appellant. 11.FAA to ensure compliance of the directions. 12.Notwithstanding the above, the Commission admonished the conduct of the
 Respondent for remaining absent during prior intimation and cautions him
 to be careful in future, failing which action may be initiated against him as
 per the law. A copy of this order be placed by the FAA before the controlling
 officer of the present PIO to take note of the observations. The appeal is disposed of accordingly. Vinod Kumar Tiwari (िवनोद कुमार ितवारी)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
Authenticated true copy
(अिभ मािणत स!ािपत ित)

(S. Anantharaman)
Dy. Registrar
011- 26181927
Date

Copy To: