SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Airtel’s presence on social media is apparently fraudulent 
DATE: 2024-07-11
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1e0lnbk/airtels_presence_on_social_media_is_apparently/

--- POST TEXT ---

I recharged a SIM card that belonged to my late my father on 8th July 2024. The recharge amount was ₹199. I was using the number for accounts on Amazon, swiggy etc.

Despite the recharge being successful the SIM card was not able to connect to the network. Not able to make/receive calls. 

Tried calling Airtel on 121 but the IVR did not have the option of transferring the call to a customer service agent.

I then raised a complaint on their X (twitter) handle and asked for a callback. Got a callback the next day but was only given the process on how to acquire a duplicate SIM card. My request for a refund was dismissed.

I continued the conversation via DM demanding a refund be made as I did not want to acquire a duplicate SIM card but the request was ignored.

Today I finally connected with 4 agents and here’s how it went

1st Agent: Screams at me that I do not understand the concern - that the SIM card is no longer functional

2nd Agent: There’s some disturbance on the line and it’s disconnected 

3rd Agent (Ms. Usaq): Tells me that Airtel has no presence on social media and that the @Airtel_Presence handle on X (Twitter) is actually a “fraud”. Her words.

4th Agent (Mr. Shahid): Tells me that since I didn’t register a complaint via email or phone that my concern is not valid. Furthermore, the call I received from their social media team was a “scam call”
Their social media handle is only for news/updates. Any complaint raised via their Thanks app is also not valid.

I have been a loyal customer of theirs for over 15 years using their broadband and mobile services (have 2 other numbers from them) and this is how they behave.

Any one reading this, please consider this a PSA. Do not use social media or their app to raise complaints or requests. They will not be considered valid by their customer service department. I am utterly disgusted.