SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: In this post I highlight 4 attempts by the opposition leaders to divert national attention to obviously parochial, casteist and communal "debates", including Mallikarjun Kharge's recent claim of a Aryan/native divide in India.
DATE: 2015-11-27
SCORE: 48
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3uh6b7/in_this_post_i_highlight_4_attempts_by_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

Indian opposition parties and leaders seem to be touching a new nadir in their desperation to oppose Narendra Modi led BJP/NDA government in India. Here are four statements and activities from such leaders, all made in a bid to attack the BJP government in India. Before you start reading this, just go through the term dog whistle politics, to see what it means. However, I am not sure these statements are dog whistle politics. These are clear cut instances of soliciting votes based on caste and religion.

1. Mallikarjuna Kharge, leader of opposition in Lok Sabha, the Indian elected Parliament, has claimed in a speech on the floor of the house that "him and people like him" are native Indians, and people like Rajnath Singh or from BJP, who he was addressing, are so called Aryans who came from outside. [Video of Kharge pointing and replying to Rajnath and claiming that "them"/Aryans came from outside. Congress MP's are thumping tables at this statement.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOi6lHxIJ4)

2. Digvijay Singh, senior Congress leader and ex-Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, claimed that Rajnath Singh was being insulted as an Kshtriya by being in a so called subservient position to Prime Minister Modi, who happens to be from a backward caste. [Congress leader Digvijay says Rajnath Singh an object of pity despite being an Kshtriya](http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-rajnath-singh-an-object-of-pity-in-modi-govt-congress-leader-digvijay-singh-2139180)

3. Congress leaders in Punjab were seen in the company of Khalistanis on stage in a public rally. [Article with picture of a man holding a flag on which is written Khalistan in Gurumukhi script".](http://www.hindustantimes.com/punjab/despite-knowing-it-was-khalistani-stage-cong-supported-sarbat-khalsa-sad/story-2iJvb2CejL5p2dqh2195WM.html)

4. Aamir Khan said recently in the midst of so called intolerance "debate" that his wife is scared of living in India, and for their kid. [Kejriwal tweets in support of Aamir Khan's statement](http://www.ndtv.com/india-news/proud-of-aamir-khan-tweets-arvind-kejriwal-1247635). Despite the fact that a secular champion like Naseruddin Shah has said that Aamir is spreading fear psychosis among Indian Muslims by his statements. So indirectly [Kejriwal is spreading fear psychosis](http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/naseeruddin-to-aamir-muslims-do-not-need-aggravation-of-their-persecution/1/530892.html) among Indian Muslims by supporting Aamir. This is interesting in light of the [advertisement that Kejriwal had released](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BJmTryePiIY) in the aftermath of the dadri killing, where a mob was reported to have killed a man for eating beef. The advertisement starts by saying "A muslim was killed by some people. Police have arrested children of Hindus families from the same village for the murder". After classifying the victim and alleged murderers by their religion and religion only, Kejriwal goes on to plunge to greater depths of desperation to spread fear psychosis among Indians in general and Muslims in particular.
Each of these four points need a chapter to explain the background behind them.

For point number 1, it should be noted why Kharge was made the leader of opposition where he does not even have seniority to be in that position. The leader of opposition is normally the top leader of Opposition, which should be Sonia or Rahul. Kharge was promoted because Congress was in need of a dalit face to counter the fact that Narendra Modi happens to be an OBC. It was Congress's delibrate plan to pit a so called 'lower caste' face against Narendra Modi. For 70 years, Congress has not promoted any lower caste leadership in the center, but when it comes to showing off someone, they can prop almost any Dalit leader as the face of Congress in the Lower house of Indian Parliament. However dirty that is, its almost nothing to the kind of politics Kharge is trying to push in 21st century India, where he is trying to divide Indians into Aryans and Dravidians/natives.

That this is dog whistle politics is seen by the fact that it was already picked up as a cue by leftist rag The Hindu to write an article about how a "[debate has been started on Aryan invasion](http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/debate-on-aryan-invasion-theory-revived/article7920009.ece)". It goes to to claim that " ...the statement by Mr. Kharge, a Dalit, more or less conforms to the Aryan invasion theory, whereby the Aryan race came and settled in India, establishing the Varna system and keeping Dalits and Dravidians at the lowest rung of the caste hierarchy. It was also a reference to the ruling BJP’s perceived dominance by upper castes."

Here we directly observe the so called liberal secular in his natural habitat. Ever ready to use highly imaginative theories of their ex-British masters in a bid to divide Indians. Just for the recored, the Aryan Invasion Theory has been soundly refuted in real history books. Only in minds of Congressis and Leftists it seems to live on, who use these so called theories as vote catching slogans.

Point number 2, by Digvijay, should be understood in light of the same kind of casteist politics that is done by Congress and other parties in the Indian Hinterland. In this type of politics, a leader like Digvijay is not just a leader, he is seen as a Rajput leader. He delivers Rajput votes to Congress. That is why he is the one tying to make fun of Rajnath, and of all so called lower caste Indians like Modi, by imputing that a Kshtriya/Rajput should feel insulted when working as a junior to a so called lower caste person. That no one even called him out on this point is just an indication of how our media is misdirected by the so called secular champions. A deliberate casteist insult to Prime Minister Modi, and all so called lower caste Indians was allowed to go unchallenged by all secular champions who were busy engaging in Award Wapasi to attack Modi.

Point number 3, engaging with Khalistanis and other extremist Sikh leader is Congress' old game plan, copied from the 1970s itself, when it promoted extremist Sikh leaders to counter Akali Dal. Much has been written about it, so no need to go into it again.

Point number 4 should be understood in light of Kejriwal's recent attempts to corner the 15% plus vote bank of Indians, that go under the name of Muslims. By creating a fear psychosis among them about the BJP, people like him have been getting free votes for ages now. This was even highlighted by leader of largest Muslim organization in India, [Mohammed Madani, when he said that politicians should not scare Muslims](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Jamiat-chief-lashes-out-at-Congress-for-fanning-fears-about-Modi/articleshow/24168154.cms) to make them vote against Modi/BJP.

A Muslim leader like Madani speaks with responsibility, but these so called secular leaders can't stop themselves from their dog whistle politics. And its funny how Kharge can attack Rajnath "as a dalit/dravidian/native", but at the same time Digvijay can attack the same Rajnath "as a Kshtriya". How ridiculous can things get? How stupid these people think Indians are?

It goes without saying that this classification of Indians based on their religion and caste has been the decades-long game plan of Congress. That is how they win elections, and that is how they still want to win. Its a well-tested and working formula, and not easy to defeat. That is why new comers like Kejriwal are still trying to copy this formula.

It's time this is ended. Leaders like Digvijay and Kharge, and people who promote them, i.e. Sonia and Kejriwal, both of whom recently supported Yadav-king Laloo in Bihar, should be recognized for what they are. These are agents of fear. Who scare Indians to be fearful of their fellow Indians to get free votes by these same shit-scared Indians.

*Please share and criticize* 

@copyright /u/chanakyay

P.S. Another attempt to divide Indians is the recent demand made by left parties made just yesterday that BJP government should bring in reservation in private sector, and that somehow this was the intention of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar all along. However, I don't want to be a compendium of all such attempts to throw stuff at the BJP government and see what sticks. What matters is the principle of the matter, and once you know the principle of throwing divisive non-issues at the government, you can see it at work from miles off.