1. Mr. Prabhu Prasanna Behera, learned Counsel is present (in

 Virtual Mode) for the Applicant. 2. Affidavit dated 06.12.2022 has been filed on behalf of the

 Respondent Nos. 4, 5 & 8, State Pollution Control Board, Odisha; the same is taken on record. 3. Along with this affidavit, an Inspection Report of inspection carried

 out on 30.11.2022 by the Committee has been filed as Annexure- R4/1. The observation of the Committee and the parawise

 allegation and compliance in the Report read as under:- named beg to present this The treated wastewater is
 Original Application as against monitored by the team and
 the respondents for allowing the observed to be conforming to
 mines to function illegally the standard.
 without having proper Effluent
 Treatment Plant and also
 discharge wastage water in
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines and
 South Kaliapani Mines, under
 Jajpur Tahasil, District Jajpur,
 Odisha without proper Consent
 to Operate order which is a sine- also challenge the and inaction
 of the authority in allowing the
 mining activities in the areas of
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines and
 South Kaliapani Mines area
 without proper and adequate
 and proper Effluent Treatment
 Plant. 5.1 That the local residents of No comments
 Sukinda Valley, District Jajpur,
 which is surrounding by
 Brahmani River and the people
 of that district are dependent on
 that particular river for the
 purposes of irrigation, drinking,
 farming and other requirements.
 Moreover, this particular locality 4 is having a population of over
 50,000 people. Most of the
 inhabitants of this area are
 farmers and are fully dependent
 on the river Brahmani and
 Damshala Nala for cultivation,
 fishing and other activities.
5.2 That it most humbly submitted Upgraded ETPs are of
 here that, on 30.12.2017 the capacity 1200 KL/Hour and
 respondent no.5 wrote a letter 300 KL/Hour instead of
 bearing no. 5119 to the 1200 KLD and 600 KLD.
 respondent no.6 to verify the
 status of operation up-graded All the outlet parameters like
 Effluent Treatment Plant pH, TSS and Cr+6 are within
 (hereinafter ETP) and online the prescribed standard of
 monitoring system of South the Board. here that, in the said letter the
 respondent no.5 stated that the
 South Kaliapani Chromite Mines
 of the Respondent No.12 was
 inspected on 28.12.2017 and
 29.12.2017 to verify the status
 of operation and upgraded ETP. The mine has completed &
 commissioned upgraded ETP of
 capacity of 1200 KLD & 600
 KLD respectively to treat the
 mine drainage water of "D'
 quarry & "F" quarry in all
 aspects since 30.10.2017. the
 ETP consist of bar screen, oil
 and grease tap, equalization-
 cum-settling tank, dozing tanks,
 secondary clarifier, sludge
 drying filter press, pressure and 5 filter (PSF), activated carbon
 filter (ACF) and treated a effluent
 collection tank. Further it is
 stated here that, after up
 gradation of ETP first water
 quality monitoring was
 conducted on 14.11.2017, from
 the analysis report it was
 revealed that the Hexavalent
 Chromium Concentration at
 outlet of ETP of 'F' quarry was
 0.0029 mg/l and at outlet of ETP
 of 'D' quarry was 0.027 mg/l. the other parameters like pH
 and TSS values at both the ETP
 outlet were within prescribed
 standard of the Board. The mine
 has also installed online water
 quality monitoring system at the
 inlet & outlet to ETP with online
 Data transmission facility at
 both the ETP. 5.3 That it is noteworthy to mention Surface run off collection
 here that, on 07.09.2019 the structure have been
 Regoinal Officer of the constructed near Koiposi for
 respondent no.5 provided to the collection of surface runoff
 respondent no.6 the inspection water from OB Dump-2 near
 report dated 07.08.2019 on security gate of Sukurangi
 surface runoff management of Chromite Mines which is
 South Kaliapani Chromite Mines pumped out to quarry 'D' ETP
 wherein it was stated that the for treatment the treated
 mine has constructed 4135 m water is being discharged
 creator boulder wall, 13800m outside.
 earthen garland drain and 19 Surface runoff collection
 nos. settling pit. The mine has structures have also been
 constructed about 4200 mts constructed near ore stack
 garland drain around the dump. yard and south side of OB
 The surface runoff collected in Dump-1. The collected
 the settling pit is pumped out to surface runoff water is
 the existing ETP for treatment. pumped out to quarry 'D' ETP 6 It is important to mention here for treatment. After proper
that it was found that runoff treatment the treated water
collection & treatment facility is is being discharged outside.
not provided for ore stack yard
and south side of OB dump-1. which was discharged to outside
& as per analysis report, it does
not meet the prescribed
standard of the board w.r.t. Cr+6. The mine drainage water
from D quarry pumped to the
ETP capacity of 1200 KL/Hr and
F quarry pumped t the ETP of
capacity 300 KL/Hr for
treatment. After the treatment, the treated
water is discharged into
Damsala Nalla through natural
drains. After inspection the
respondent no.5 found that the
water samples of runoff water
discharged from OB dump-1 and
new OB dump-2 was collected
for analysis during visit. The
concentration of Cr+6 in these
samples was found to be higher
than stipulated limit of 0.05
mg/l. In view of the above the
respondent no.5 recommended
to direction may be issued to the 7 unit to rectify the lapse in
 surface runoff management
 system. 5.4 That it is pertinent to mention Show cause notice was
 here that on 24.10.2019 the issued vide letter no. 11375
 respondent no.5 issued a show dtd. 24.10.2019 to South
 cause notice for revocation of Kaliapani Chromite Mines for
 consent to operate u/s 25/26 of some non-compliances to
 Water (PCP) Act, 1974 & section CTO conditions i.e. (i) not
 21 of Air (PCP) Act, 1981 to the having surface run off
 respondent no.13 on basis of collection and treatment
 inspection dated 07.08.2019 facility for part of ore stock
 and directed him to file show yard area and part of over
 cause as to why consent to burden dump no.1, (ii)
 operate granted in favour of his discharge of part of run off
 mine up to 01.03.2020, shall not water from over burden on.1
 be revoked. and over burden no.2 was
 found to be prescribed
 discharge standard of the
 Board. 5.5 That after receipt of the show In response to the show
 cause notice on 06.11.2019 the cause notice the unit had
 respondent no.13 filed the reply submitted the reply within
 wherein he replied that, the due date of the notice served
 entire constructions shall be vide its letter no. 3190 dt.
 completed by May, 2020, before 06.11.2019 indicating that
 monsoon and further replied that they have maintained the
 they have maintained the slope slope and designed the
 and designed the terraces so terraces so that no water
 that no water is allowed to go would be allowed to go
 beyond the lease area they shall beyond the lease area till
 ensure to maintain the same till permanent mitigation
 a permanent mitigative measure measures would be pumped
 are in place. Wherever possible, out to treat through ETP and
 they will pump out the requested to permit till May
 accumulated water to treat 2020 i.e. before the monsoon
 through ETP. to complete the entire
 construction work for
 permanent mitigation
 measures. 5.6 That further on 17.03.2020 the After receiving the reply to
 Regional Officer of the the show cause notice the
 respondent no.5 sent an mine was inspected on
 inspection report of the South 11.03.2020 to verify the
 Kaliapani Chromite Mines of the environment practice and
 Respondent no.12 dated compliance to consent
 11.03.2020 wherein the conditions as well as show
 respondent no.5 observed that cause notice and inspection
 the respondent no.13 violated report of Regional Office
 the conditions of consent to submitted vide letter no. 493
 operate. the consent to operate dtd. 17.03.2020.
 has been granted to the mine for
 production of Chrome Ore (ROM) It was reported in the
 1.4 MTPA and COB plant of inspection report that several
 throughput capacity 0.47 MTPA numbers of earthen settling
 which valid up to 31.03.2020. tanks were constructed at
 Further it is verified that the different locations for
 total Chrome Ore production of channelizing the entire run
 the mine during 2018-19 is off water of the said area to
 1050513 MT. the water used for settling tanks through
 various activities and the garland drain and no
 sources are water and bore well. discharge of untreated run
 further it was observed by the off to outside was found.
 respondent no.5 that the mine is Quality of treated water at
 fully mechanized opencast mine both the ETPs outlets was
 and drilling is being done with within the prescribed
 the wet drilling arrangement standard of the Board.
 facilities in drilling machine like
 inbuilt dust extraction system &
 water injection system for dust
 suppression. 5.7 That such action of illegal As mentioned in sl no.5.6
 discharge of wastage water has
 damaged the private and public
 properties as well as aquatic
 habitats. Excessive discharge of
 pre-treated/untreated water has
 significantly distorted the
 natural equilibrium of the stream
 channel. 5.8 That while the said mines Both the mines have valid
 sources started operating the consent to operate during the
 respondent no.12 obtained alleged period i.e. 2017 and
 consent to operate under from onwards as mentioned in the
 respondent no.5 wherein the OA.
 consent to operate was allowed
 till 31.03.2025 it has come to
 knowledge of the applicant from
 reliable sources which he believe
 to be true that after the consent
 to operate is extended the
 conditions stipulated therein is
 not at all followed by the
 authorities and respondents in
 any manner whatsoever. On the
 other hand without having a
 consent order respondent no.13
 are still extracting/discharging
 the wastage water from the
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines area
 to other areas and beyond the
 specified area also thus for the
 same, the respondent no.12 and
 13 are liable. 5.9 That it is most humbly submitted As mentioned in sl. no. 5.8
 that there are two chromite
 mines. Both these mining
 sources are generally allotted for
 chromite mining by way of a
 tender process. It is pertinent to
 mention here that on 18.10.2021
 the respondent no.12 got
 consent order for chromite
 mining from Sukurangi Chromite
 Mines for a period of 2 years i.e.,
 till 31.03.2023, which was
 issued by the State Pollution
 Control Board, Odisha for the
 purpose of consent for discharge
 of sewage and trade effluent 10 under section 25/26 of Water
 (PCP) Act, 1974 and for
 existing/new operation of the
 plant under section 21 of Air
 (PCP) Act, 1981 from Sukurangi
 Chromite Mines to South
 Kaliapani Chromite Mines. 5.10 That after the consent was over As mentioned in sl. no. 5.8
 the respondent no.12 started the
 mining operation and discharges
 the wastage water from
 Sukurangi Chromite Mines to
 Damasala Nala, Jajpur. Further
 It is submitted that Sukinda
 Valley in Jajpur district of
 Odisha contains about 98% of
 chromite reserve and it is
 exploited mostly by opencast
 mining process since 1950. 5.11 That Hexavalent Chromium is a The standard of Hexavalent
 highly toxic form of chromium Chromium as per the E(P)
 metal mainly used in different Rules, 1986 is 0.1 mg/l.
 industrial applications for its however, considering the
 anticorrosive properties. Due to sensitivity of Sukinda Valley,
 open cast mining process lots of the State Board has
 over burden area being stipulated a stringent
 generated and leaching from this standard of 0.05 mg/l for
 over burden adds the discharge for all mines in the
 Hexavalent Chromium to ground valley including South
 water regime. Ground water in Kaliapani Mines.
 the valley is encountered at a
 shallow depth in semi-confined
 aquifer. Hexavalent Chromium is
 carcinogenic beyond permissible
 limit (0.05 mg/l). Therefore, there
 is a threat of contamination of
 Hexavalent Chromium to the
 ground water regime of the
 valley as well as to the
 environment. 5.12 That it is a matter of great Anaerobic lagoons is
 concern that the general employed to treat effluent
 condition of the consent order with high BOD. In the context
 the care should be taken to keep of South Kaliapani Mines the
 the anaerobic lagoons, if any, treatment is carried out to
 biologically active and not treat the Hexavalent
 utilized as mere stagnation Chromium, which is done
 ponds. The anaerobic lagoons through chemical process.
 should be fed with the required The general condition no.17
 nutrients for effective digestion. in the consent order is
 Lagoons should be construed therefore not applicable in
 with side and bottom made this case.
 impervious. But the respondent
 no.13 has miserably failed in
 complying such conditions. 5.13 That it is also mentioned under Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 Special Conditions at Clause 12 has no dedicated ETP. All
 of Consent Order that mine shall surface runoff water is being
 furnish the details of the accumulated at quarry and
 adequacy of its surface runoff settling ponds of Sukurangi
 management system in place Chromite Mines and the
 and submit a declaration that no same is routed to Quarry-F
 runoff water will be discharged ETP of adjoining mining lease
 to outside during monsoon. of South Kaliapani through
 Further at Clause 13, it is pipe line connection. Finally,
 mentioned that, mine drainage the treated water after
 water shall be discharged into treatment in F-Quarry ETP is
 surface water body after being discharged outside as
 adequate treatment in the per the conditions stipulated
 upgraded ETP of South in consent to operate order.
 Kaliapani Mine. The treated Samples were collected
 waste water of upgraded ETP during visit from inlet and out
 shall also be utilized for let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 sprinkling activities at various per analysis report it
 sources of generation of dust. revealed that quality of
 Conjoint reading of these two treated water from the out let
 conditions will to show that the of ETP meeting the
 Sukurangi Mines doesn't have prescribed standard of the
 ETP, therefore the respondent Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
 no.14 are sending it to South 12 Kaliapani Mines. That because
of such type of activities by the
respondent no.14 not only the
river bed is being affected but
also the same is creating a
hazardous environment for the
Sukinda Valley, Jajpur and its
eco system. Due to such illegal
discharge of wastage water it
has affected the ecosystem of
the locality along with the river
bed. It is quite obviously understood
that, the respondent no.12
taking the pr-treated/untreated
water from Sukurangi Chromite
Mines to South Kaliapani Mines
for treatment. But how the respondent B. No. 12, 13 and 14 are transporting without any
pilferage without discharge in
the midway nowhere is
mentioned and the respondent
no.12 are not maintaining the
same. While the respondent
no.14 is sending pre- treated/untreated waste water
which is hazardous water to
South Kaliapani Mines, it is clear
that Sukurangi Chromite Mines
is not treating the entire waste
water. Some amount of the total
water is being sent for treatment
for official records only and rest
of the waste hazardous water
are being thrown out to the river
through one Nalla, polluting the
environment for which not only
the river eco system is being
polluted but also the human life
and flor and fauna of the 13 environment is being severely
 affected. 5.14 That it is important to mention No surface run-off is
 here that the respondent no. 12, discharged to outside. Rather
 13 and 14 should not discharge the run-off is collected within
 the runoff water to outside then the mine and pumped to the
 it is understandable that the ETP located in the adjacent
 respondent no.14 should have a lease for the adequate
 treatment plant inside the mines treatment.
 but it is sending the untreated
 water to South Kaliapani Mines
 that means the respondent no. 12, 13 and 14 are violating the
 clause 12. Runoff water are
 either not treated causing huge
 environmental issues for the
 public, for local inhabitants and
 for the flora & fauna of the area
 or the respondent no.12, 13 &
 14 are not complying both the
 clauses. 5.15 That it is pertinent to mention As mentioned in sl. no. 5.13
 here that, there is question that
 the respondent no.12 transport
 the pre-treated/untreated wate
 water from Sukurangi Mines to
 South Kaliapani Mines is being
 done in which manner and
 whether total waste water is
 being treated or not. the
 respondent no.12 are not
 treating the entire waste water
 rand causing huge
 environmental issues in the
 locality. 5.16 That the volume of runoff water Regular monitoring by the
 can be calculated from the area State Pollution Control Board
 of the mines and the average indicates that the treated
 rain fall which is available on water is meeting the
 record, therefore it is crystal stringent standard 14 clear that, South Kaliapani prescribed by the Board. This
 Mines having more volume of indicates that the ETPs have
 runoff water itself not capable of adequate capacity to treat
 treating its own Runoff water in the effluent. its ETP. Therefore it is
 questionable that how the ETP of
 South Kaliapani Mines is
 treating the Runoff water (pre-
 treated/untreated) of Sukurangi
 Mines. This creates a lot of
 confusion and compels the
 applicant to put questions on the
 management of the respondent
 no.12, 13 and 14 and illegal,
 arbitrary action in managing the
 waste water. 5.17 That it is most important to No comments. mention here that, the Odisha
 counts about 98% of total proved
 chromium from the more
 reserves of the country of which
 about 97% occur in Sukinda
 Valley and overall area covering
 the approximately 200 sq. kms.
 In Jajpur District. Therefore the
 mines functioning on those area
 needs to be more careful for
 having a sustainable
 development vis-à-vis
 environmental ecosystem. 5.18 That the respondent no.5 The adequacy of the
 recorded the occurrence of treatment system was
 chromium in the mines drainage evaluated by IIT, Kharagpur
 water of the chromite mines in and the treatment plants
 the Sukinda Valley in 1980s, no were upgraded as per the
 techno economically viable recommendation of IIT
 treatment methods for chromium Kharagpur.
 was available therein. At present there are 2 nos of
 Subsequently, though it is found upgraded ETP is available at
 that, there are some treatment South Kaliapani Mines 15 plants are established but those having capacity of 1200
 are not adequate for the volume KL/Hr & 300 KL/Hr.
 of Runoff water and the volume Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 of wastage water which are has no dedicated ETP. All
 coming out of the respondent no. surface runoff water is being
 13 & 14 of respondent no.12. accumulated at quarry and
 settling ponds of Sukurangi
 Chromite Mine sand the ame
 is routed to Quarry-F ETP of
 adjoining mining lease of
 South Kaliapani through pipe
 line connection. Finally, the
 treated water after treatment
 in F-Quarry ETP is being
 discharged outside as per the
 conditions stipulated in
 consent to operate order. Samples were collected
 during visit from inlet and out
 let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 per analysis report it
 revealed that quality of
 treated water from the out let
 of ETP meeting the
 prescribed standard of the
 Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6. 5.19 That a study was conducted by No comments. mining. This is perhaps the first
 and by far the only such
 document report a random
 sample of 188 household out of
 total 373 in villages near 4
 Chromite mines of Sukinda
 which includes mines of the
 respondent no.12 and having
 major stake in that area was 16 selected for the study and it was
 found that morbidity, which is
 the most important and sensitive
 indicator of ill health, reveals
 something starting in findings. In
 the morbidity pattern it shows a
 great variance between certain
 chromium induced diseases. 5.20 That chromium exists in two Both the mines are operating
 stable states a Hexavalent with valid consent to operate
 chromium and Trivalent of SPCB. At present there are
 Chromium. Out of which 2 nos of upgraded ETP is
 Hexavalent Chromium Cr+6 is available at South Kaliapani
 the most toxi form. Trivalent Mines having capacity of
 Chromium doesn't induce nay 1200 KL/Hr & 300 KL/Hr.
 harmful effect when it fade with Sukurangi Chromite Mines
 water or food in the living has no dedicated ETP. All
 organisms. Hexavalent surface runoof water is being
 Chromium Cr+6 are beyond a accumulated at quarry and
 certain concentration and toxic settling ponds of Sukurangi
 which have many adverse Chromite mines and the
 impacts on environment. As a same is routed to Quarry-F
 result of growing open cast ETP of adjoining mining lease
 mining activities by respondent of South Kaliapani through
 no. 12, 13 and 14 in mining area pipe line connection. Finally,
 i.e. Sukurangi Mines and South the treated water after
 Kaliapani Mines, the treatment in F-Quarry ETP is
 environment is under threat. In being discharged outside as
 Suinda Mining area around 7.6 per the conditions stipulated
 million tons of solid wastes has in consent to operate order.
 been generated in form of Samples were collected
 rejected over burden during visit from inlet and out
 material/waste rock and Sub- let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 Grade ore that may be resulting per analysis report it
 in the environment degradation revealed that quality of
 mainly causing lowering in the treated water from the out let
 water level as well as of ETP meeting the
 deterioration in surface and prescribed standard of the
 ground water quality. Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
5.21 That according to the Indian The Board is aware of the 17 Standard the permissible limit of risk of Chromium
 Hexavalent Chromium form Contamination in Sukinda
 portable water is 0.05 ppm and Valley, therefore engaged IIT,
 for industrial discharge of water Kharagpur for a detailed
 is 0.1 ppm as per the Central study. As per the
 Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) recommendation of IIT,
 Guidelines. In Sukinda area the Kharagpur all the mines
 laterization process involving were directed to uypgrade
 oxidation and alteration of the ETP to mitigate risk. On
 serpentines creates alkaline ore top of that the standard for
 water which facilitates the the treated water was also
 generation of Cr+6 Hexavalent made more stringent than the
 Chromium from in not chromites CPC B guideline.
 and causes hazardous chromite Samples were collected
 pollution of water. The ground during visit from inlet and out
 water in the Suinda Valley let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 occurs in the depth of 8 to 11 per analysis report it
 m3eters and when it comes in revealed that quality of
 contact with the atmospheric air treated water from the out let
 and chrome ore during the mines of ETP meeting the
 it gets contaminated with prescribed standard of the
 Hexavalent Chromnium beyond Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
 the permissible limit which is a
 threat to the human civilization.
5.22 That there has been several As mentioned in sl. no. 5.21
 reports and study on the effect
 of Hexavalent Chromium in the
 environment and human
 civilization which causes water
 po9llution as result of which not
 only the environment, the flora &
 fauna but also the civilization
 and existing of the human and
 other living beings are under
 threat. 5.23 That it is important to mention As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20. here that from the inspection
 report of the pollution control
 board, it is found that the
 respondent no.12 mines i.e. 18 Sukyurangi and South Kaliapani
 have not complied with many of
 the conditions under the consent
 order as per the guidelines of
 State Pollution Control Board vis-
 à-vis Central Pollution Control
 Board. There is no sufficient ETP
 available in both the mines i.e.
 Sukurangi Mines and South
 Kaliapani Mines. There is no
 provision for collecting the
 surface run of water or for that
 matter the respondent no.14
 have not done the lagoons and
 therefore no impervious button is
 also prepared which is
 dangerous for the ground water
 level. 5.24 That it is impost humbly No comments
 submitted that, while the above
 mention, Mines sources were
 being extracted/discharged the
 wastage water, it is found that
 the respondent no.12 (OMC) is
 adopting illegal methods and
 violating specific guidelines and
 norms resulting in environment
 threat and huge losses. Therefore, a detailed complaint
 was sent to the respondent
 no.12 where in it is specifically
 averred and prayed to calculate
 the environmental loss/hazard
 caused by your mine since last
 so many years and pay
 compensation and to take
 immediate steps for rectifying
 the error within a period of 15
 days with appropriate
 information to the undersigned. However, no action has been
 taken till date. 5.25 That due to the above the No comments
 ground water level of the area is
 also gradually decreasing. The
 proposed river bed mining is
 against the spirit of the Article
 48A and 51A (g) that mandates
 for protection of environment and Article 21 of Constitution of
 India. 6 That, as discharging the No wastewater is observed to
 wastage water from Sukurangi be discharged from
 Chromite Mines to the Damsala Sukurangi Chromite Mines to
 Nalla bed is goind throughout Damsala Nalla.
 the day (24 hrs) day. 7. That illegal and unregulated As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20. activities of the Orissa Mining
 Corporation violating the
 environmental norms and
 condition of the consent to
 operate order thereby damaging
 river bed along with the
 surrounding villages and also
 the environment. 8 That it is pertinent to mention Both the mines are operating
 here that, the ETP/mining from with valid consent to operate
 the Sukurangi Chromite Mines of SPCB during the alleged
 are done in the season which period i.e. 2017 an onwards.
 start from the year of 2017 and
 continued till the year of 2023. Samples were collected
 Therefore even though the leases during visit from inlet and out
 i.e. respondent no. 13 do not let of Quarry-D ETP and as
 have the Consent Order and per analysis report it
 even though there has been revealed that quality of
 cases/allegations/litigation treated water from the out let
 against the said lease they are of ETP meeting the
 mining ETP the most unfortunate prescribed standard of the
 part is the state machineries Board w.r.t. pH, TSS, Cr+6.
 being in hand in gloves with the 20 respondent no.12 are allowing
 such acts. 9 That the mining is supposed to Both the mines are operating
 take place only in the dry pits, with valid consent to operate
 however the mining in the of SPCB during the alleged
 present case were in-stream and period i.e. 2017 an onwards. unsustainable mining and
 particularly more than that could
 be harvested in an ordinary way
 leading to over exploitation and
 same is become subject to the
 deep mechanical ETP mining. And for this reason, the source
 at Sukinda Valley, Jajpur is also
 no more suitable and feasible
 sustainable for mining of
 chromium and the river could not
 replenish in the natural way
 because of over exploitation. It is
 most humbly submitted that the
 human and flora & fauna are
 affected due to scarcity of the
 water, which is because of the
 illegal activities of the State
 Government. Grounds
I For that the instant application No comments
 being filed U/s 14 under the Act
 raising the substantial question
 wherein the community at large
 and the environment is grossly
 affected and is coming within
 the ambit of section 2(m) of the
 Act. Section 2(m) of the Act
 provides that substantial
 question relating to environment
 cell include an instance where
 the community at large other
 than an individual or group of
 individuals is affected or likely 21 to be affected by the
 environmental consequences. The arbitrary action of the
 respondents is antithesis to the
 doctrine of public trust as upheld
 and laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in a plethora of
 judgments. II For that the environment as No comments
 defined U/s 2(a) of Environment
 Protection Act, 1986 provides
 "Environment includes water, air
 and land and the inter
 relationship which exist among
 and between water, air and land
 and human beings, other living
 creators plant, micro-organism
 and property." The term
 environment as defined above
 inherently includes climate
 within its scope. Hence the
 present original application
 which is being preferred because
 of the adverse impact of the
 impugned action of the
 respondent comes within the
 ambit and jurisdiction of this
 Hon'ble Tribunal. III For that without the consent Both South Kaliapani and
 order, the operation of the Sukurangi Chromite Mines of
 mining activities by the M/s OMC Ltd. is operating
 respondent no. 12, 13 & 14 is with valid consent to operate.
 illegal. IV That the mining activities are Both the mines are operating
 done without ETP and without with valid consent to operate
 environmental clearance. of SPCB. At present there are
 2 nos of upgraded ETP is
 available at South Kaliapani
 Mines having capacity of
 1200 KL/Hr & 300 KL/Hr. no.5 makes it crystal clear that
 the respondent no.12, 13 and
 14 violating all the guidelines of
 consent order and discharging
 the protected/un-treated water
 to the Damsala Nalla and
 nearby river. VII For that it is crystal clear from As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20
 the three inspection reports that
 the respondent no. 12, 13 and
 14 have not followed the
 guidelines and hence they
 should not operate the mining.
VIII For that the state government is As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20
 closing its eyes towards the
 illegal activities of the
 respondent no.12 been there is
 no permission from the
 authority. IX For that the mining activities are No comments
 being done for 24 hours whereas
 the same is not permissible. X For that due to the discharge the No comments
 wastage water the river path is
 diverted and affected grossly but
 no action has yet been taken
 against the respondent no.12.
XI For that even though the As mentioned in sl. no. 5.20. discharge of the but no action is
 taken yet. 4. Mr. Prabhat Kumar Muduli, learned Counsel seeks to file

 Vakalatnama on behalf of the Respondent Nos. 12 to 14, Odisha

 Mining Corporation, South Kaliapani Chromite Mine and

 Sukurangi Chromite Mine. Let the Vakalatnama be e-filed in the

 course of the day. The Respondent Nos. 12 to 14 are granted four

 weeks time for filing their Counter-affidavits. 5. Mr. Prabhu Prasanna Behera, learned Counsel states that he has

 not received the copy of the affidavit dated 06.12.2022 along with

 the Inspection Report filed by the State Pollution Control Board,

 Odisha. 6. Ms. Papiya Banerjee Bihani, learned Counsel appearing for State

 Pollution Control Board shall serve e-copy/soft copy of the affidavit

 dated 06.12.2022 along with the Inspection Report upon

 Mr. Prabhu Prasanna Behera, learned Counsel within 24 hours,

 who may file his objections, if any, to the same before the next date

 of listing. 7. List on 11.01.2023. .....................................
 B. Amit Sthalekar, JM

 .................................
 Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM
December 09, 2022
Original Application No.137/2022/EZ
AK 24