Researcher claims finding Zoom loophole that allows MacOS ‘takeover’

A cybersecurity researcher claims to have found a loophole in the popular video conferencing platform Zoom for MacOS, that leaves the system vulnerable to a hostile takeover. The details were unveiled at the Def Con hacking conference in Las Vegas. Zoom has acted on some of the issues, but the researchers say there are still unpatchec vulnerabilities that persist. [Read more]

Twitter thread on fake entries on IMDB, other platforms in India for ‘online clout’

@prstb on Twitter seems to have stumbled upon a way that Indians are using uploads on various websites (with doubtful credibility), audio mashups, fake biographies and credits on major big-budget productions as a way to gain “online clout”. This apparently works by feeding false knowledge to Google, and the person highlighted has even made his way to Google’s ‘knowledge panels’! Check out the thread here

Tencent, Alibaba have submitted app algorithm details: Chinese regulator

Alibaba, Tencent, Baiduo, Weibo, and others in Chinese ‘Big Tech’, have submitted details of the algorithms used in some products as part of a broader tightening of Beijing’s oversight. The internet regulator, Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC), published brief details of algorithms used along with classification numbers, as reported by Reuters. [Read more]

Twilio incident’: Signal’s SMS verification service hit by phishing attack

Instant messaging platform Signal said that Twilio, the company that provides it SMS-based mobile verification services, was hit by a phishing attack but claimed that its users’ “message history, contact lists, profile information, whom they’d blocked, and other personal data remain private and secure and were not affected.” [Read more]

Facebook failed to prevent misleading election ads in Brazil: Report

A report by Global Witness is another in a long line of criticism of Meta’s Facebook for preventing election-related misinformation. The NGO points out Facebook’s claim that it is specifically investing in Brazil to tackle electoral misinformation, but its systems do not seem to reflect that. [Read more]

India’s data localization rules to ease, “trusted geographies” to be allowed

The Indian Express has reported that the government is looking to drop its data localization rules, criticized as too “compliance intensive” by industry, from the new data protection bill and instead include it in a ‘revamped’ Information Technology Act, with “trusted geographies” allowed to store data as well. [Read more]

U.S. FTC to crack down on commercial surveillance, lax data security policies

The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is looking to formulate new rules to crack down on “Harms from Business of Collecting, Analyzing, and Monetizing Information About People ”. It notes that the commercial exploitation of user data incentivizes companies to collect a lot more than what users knowingly share and will seek comments on whether “new rules are needed to protect people’s privacy and information” [Read more]

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event