1. This order shall dispose of the two bail applications filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail by husband and wife in

case FIRs No.329/2006 registered under Sections 409 / 420 / 120B IPC & Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 1 of 14 FIR NO. 761/2007 registered under Sections 409 / 420 / 120B / 506 IPC at

P.S. Uttam Nagar which later on were investigated by the EOW, Cell,

Qutub Enclave Mehrauli, New Delhi 2. According to the petitioners, they are law abiding and peace

loving citizens. One of them, namely, husband was also elected as

MLA from Najafgarh as an independent candidate. It has been

submitted that the aforesaid FIR has been registered against the

petitioners only at the behest of losing candidates. It is submitted that

the complainant in the FIRs are one Praveen Dahiya who is real

nephew of the petitioner being son of his brother-in-law, basically to

force the petitioners to repay the loan which was allegedly obtained by

petitioner, Anita from her brother in the year 1999. In fact, after

election of Ranbir Singh for Legislative Assembly, the complainant and

his father misused the trust and confidence reposed in the petitioner

for their monetary gain and this is the reason that these FIRs were

registered. It is submitted that prosecution was also sought to be

made of the petitioners on the basis of dishonor of cheques for which

notice were issued to him in the year 2004. The proceedings were

contested by the petitioners and it is thereafter the complainant

approached the MM by filing the complaint and obtained directions

under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. Since the police refused to comply with

those directions, a contempt notice was issued and then the present

FIRs were registered by the police without proper appreciation of the

true facts. The petitioners then applied for grant of anticipatory bail

before the Additional District and Sessions Judge which was gratned

only to the extent that the petitioners were protected from arrest for a

period of three months and if the I.O. wanted to arrest them, he was Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 2 of 14 directed to give them seven day's notice. This was subject to the

petitioners joining the investigation. However, it appears that

according to the prosecution the petitioners did not join the

investigation and as such prosecution decided to arrest them and gave

a notice dated 01.02.2008 and it is thereafter the petitioners filed the

present application. 3. It is submitted that the FIR does not make out a case of cheating

as the allegations do not make out ingredients of Section 415 Cr.P.C. It

is also submitted that the incident alleged against the petitioners had

taken place in 1999 whereas the FIR has been registered on

25.04.2006 which is politically motivated. 4. The petitioners have also filed written synopsis and have also

relied upon the following judgments:- 5. It has been contended that in the facts of the case two FIRs have been

registered which could not have been done in view of the judgment in T.T.Antony 's case (supra). It is also submitted the petitioner who is a public

personality has been implicated falsely and therefore, is entitled to protection

in view of judgment delivered in the case of Gurbaksh Singh's case (supra). It

is also submitted that even otherwise they are entitled to anticipatory bail in

the light of the principles laid down in other judgments. They have joined the Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 3 of 14 investigation and no fruitful purpose will be served if they are sent to judicial

custody. 6. While opposing the bail applications, the respondents submitted

that: operated with the prosecution and had given vague information about

his bank accounts and cheque books. His version about the loss of

cheque book is factually wrong, the petitoner has misappropriated the

amount taken from the victims on false assurances such as giving

them daily interest and monthly interest which runs in crores of

rupees. It has been clearly stated by the victims that both the

petitioners are responsible for cheating and fraud played upon the

investors inasmuch as one claims to be a Director of the Company

whereas Ranbir Singh Kharab is the husband had been actively

indulging in procuring advances from various investors most of whom

were his near relations and probably invested the money on trust but

at the time when the money was taken, the petitioners had no

intention to repay the same. In fact, the conduct of the petitioner,

Ranbir Singh who even mentioned his Pan Account No.AMRPS1095G

with the election officer was found to be false as the same belongs to

one Baldhari Saini which shows that the petitioner is not coming with

clean hands and wants to hide his whereabouts and particulars relating

to the properties and bank accounts which must be having the amount

taken from the investors on false assurances. It is submitted that the

allegations make out cases against the petitioners under Section

409 / 420 / 120B IPC in view of the conduct of the petitioners who are not

even co-operating with investigation, they are not entitled to Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 7 of 14 anticipatory bail as prayed for. It is also submitted that it is a fit case

where the custodial interrogation of the petitioners is necessary for

elucidating the facts and disclosure of bank accounts and other

properties which would have been purchased by them by

misappropriating the money of the investors. 8. Reference has been made to a judgment delivered by the

Supreme Court in the case of State Rep. by CBI Vs. Anil Sharma

(1997) 7 SCC 187. The relevant observations made in the aforesaid

case are as under: oriented than questioning a suspect who is well
 ensconced with a favourable order under Section 438 of
 the Code. In a case like this effective interrogation of a
 suspected person is of tremendous advantage in
 disinterring many useful informations and also materials
 which would have been concealed. Success in such
 interrogation would elude if the suspected person knows
 that he is well protected and insulated by a pre-arrest
 bail order during the time he is interrogated. Very often
 interrogation in such a condition would reduce to a mere
 ritual. The argument that the custodial interrogation is
 fraught with the danger of the person being subjected to
 third-degree methods need not be countenanced, for,
 such an argument can be advanced by all accused in all
 criminal cases. The Court has to presume that
 responsible police officers would conduct themselves in
 a responsible manner and that those entrusted with the
 task of disinterring offences would not conduct
 themselves as offenders. 7. The High Court has approached the issue as though it
 was considering a prayer for granting regular bail after
 arrest. The learned Single Judge of the High Court
 reminded himself of the principle that "it is well settled
 that bail and not jail is a normal rule" and then observed
 thus: 9. Reference has been made to number of judgments on behalf of

the respondents delivered in the case of Adri Dharan Das Vs. State of

West Bengal ( 2005) 2 SCC 303, Narinderjit Singh & Anr. Vs. Union of

India & Ors. 2001 VIII AD (SC) 499, Enforcement Officer, Ted, Bombay

Vs. Bher Chand Tikaji Bora & Anr. 2000 (1) Crimes 33 (SC). 10. In the case of Adri Dharan Das (Supra) which is the judgment

delivered by the Apex Court, following observations have been made

which may be taken into account for consideration of granting

anticipatory bail in given facts: bailable offence must be capable of being examined. If an
 application is made to the High Court or the Court of
 Session, it is for the Court concerned to decide whether a
 case has been made out of for granting the relief sought.
 The provisions cannot be invoked after arrest of the
 accused. A blanket order should not be generally passed. It
 flows from the very language of the section which requires
 the applicant to show that he has reason to believe that he
 may be arrested. A belief can be said to be founded on
 reasonable grounds only if there is something tangible to go
 by on the basis of which it can be said that the applicant's
 apprehension that he may be arrested is genuine. Normally
 a direction should not issue to the effect that the applicant
 shall be released on bail "whenever arrested for whichever
 offence whatsoever". Such 'blanket order' should not be
 passed as it would serve as a blanket to cover or protect any
 and every kind of allegedly unlawful activity. An order
 under Section 438 is a device is secure the individual's Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 9 of 14 liberty' it is neither a passport to the commission of crimes
 nor a shield against any and all kinds of accusations likely
 or unlikely. On the facts of the case, considered in the
 background of legal position set out above, this does not
 prima facie appear to be a case where any order in terms of
 Section 438 of the Code can be passed. 11. In the case of Enforcement Officer, Ted, Bombay (supra) while

interpreting the scope of granting relief under Section 438 Cr.P.C. in

respect of white collar crimes, it was observed: 12. I have analysed the written synopsis furnished on behalf of the

petitioner as well as the ratio of judgments relied by them. In the

present case, the fact brought on record during the course of

investigation points out that the petitioners have cheated the innocent

people and particularly those who were their close relations by giving

false assurances for amounts, which run in crores of rupees. They

have repaid the loan amount only to those who approached the

Criminal Courts in prosecution under Section 138 of the N.I. Act that

also on the basis of bounced cheques issued by Ranbir Singh Kharab in

discharge of his liability. Thus, they are not entitled to any Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 10 of 14 discretionary relief from this Court. In fact, in such a case custodial

interrogation is necessary because this may disclose the factual

position of the financial affairs of the petitioners which may entitle the

prosecution to seize the properties and also to take appropriate action

with respect to the bank accounts of the petitioners and/or their

relations which accounts might have been used for siphoning away the

money of the complainants. 13. The present case is not a case of counter FIRs but it is a case of

two FIRs having been registered alleging cheating to different

individuals. In fact, every offence of cheating constitutes an

independent offence and therefore, the arguments on behalf of the

petitioners that in this case because two FIRs have been registered

that vitiates the interrogation is not sustainable. The principles of

other judgments regarding grant of bail does not protect the

petitioners for the reasons stated above. The facts of this case very

glaringly show as to how influence by a public personality has been

misused in persuading innocent relations to shell out their hard earned

money with false promises like interest on daily basis and on monthly

basis which is without the petitioners knowing well will not be possible.

Moreover, the money has been swindled away and misappropriated by

purchasing various properties, which has been procured from the

complainants. 14. In Narinderjit Singh Sahni 's case (supra), the Apex Court took

note of the judgment delivered in the case of Gurbaksh Sigh (supra)

also but taking into consideration that a number of persons have been

cheated made the following observations:- Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 11 of 14 Diverse criminal proceedings have started against the
 petitioner was granted bail in some FIRs in Delhi and also at
 Mumbai, Pune, Chandigarh, Udaipur, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad,
 Ludhiana, Dehradun and Ambala but could not avail such
 privilege to be released on bail as he was in judicial custody in
 similar FIRs by other depositors. The principal grievance of the
 petitioner being that though in judicial custody for the last 21
 months but the petitioner can never be released as the
 situation presently stands by reason of several production
 warrants pending in different States like Uttar Pradesh,
 Rajasthan, Kerala, Punjab and Karnataka. It is petitioners
 definite case that imperative is the question of release as then
 only he can look after the interest of investor by evolving a
 scheme of revival. The petitioner as a matter of act, it has been
 contended, has to be shuttled from one place to another all
 over the country as presence of the petitioner suddenly
 becomes mandatory at every other place and on every date of
 hearing. It is this state of affairs which Mr. Shanti bhushan
 appearing in support of the petitioner highlighted and
 contended that the same is unjust and violative of the
 fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution. 58. We are, therefore, unable to agree with the method
 adopted by this Court in Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 256 of 1999
 and Writ Petitions (Crl.) Nos. 72-75 of 2000 since in our opinion
 to adopt the method would be giving a premium to the accused
 persons. Right of an accused to have speedy trial is now
 recognised as a right under Article 21. Even it has been
 extended to investigation of offences against child offenders in
 the case of Sheela Barse (I) v. Union of India10 . The procedural
 fairness required by Article 21 , including the right to a speedy
 trial, has, therefore to be observed throughout and to be borne Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 12 of 14 in mind. In course of hearing, we had requested the learned
 Additional Solicitor-General to evolve a scheme for expeditious
 disposal of criminal cases of the nature with which we are
 concerned in the present batch of cases. But no concrete
 proposal came till the conclusion of the hearing of these
 matters. While, therefore, we are not granting any relief
 to the accused persons on the reasons already indicated,
 we would commend upon the Central Government to
 evolve certain formula or procedure, so that the accused
 will not complain of undue harassment on account of
 protraction of their cases and the persons deceived who
 have filed complaints, will be satisfied with the early
 conclusions of the trial. 59. True, there are certain orders passed by this Court wherein
 special directions have been given but this Court while passing
 the orders has not only been extremely careful but was
 cautious enough to record therein that the order was passed on
 the special facts and the circumstances in the issue and the
 same ought not to be treated as a precedent -- in the wake of
 recording of such a caution and the order being in the specific
 facts of the matter in issue, question of the same being treated
 as a judicial precedent would not arise, in any event in the view
 as noticed hereinabove, the said orders as a matter of fact have
 lost their significance. 60. As regards the issue of a single offence, we are
 afraid that the fact situation of the matters under
 consideration would not permit to lend any credence to
 such a submission. Each individual deposit agreement
 shall have to be treated as a separate and individual
 transaction brought about by the allurement of the
 financial companies, since the parties are different, the
 amount of deposit is different as also the period for
 which the deposit was effected. It has all the
 characteristics of independent transactions and we do
 not see any compelling reason to hold it otherwise. The
 plea as raised also cannot have our concurrence. 15. Moreover, it is also well settled that there is a difference between

regular bail and anticipatory bail. Anticipatory bail is to be granted

only to those persons who are able to show that they are not involved

in the case, subject matter of the enquiry or that they have been

falsely implicated and there is likelihood of harassment by police

officials, which is not the case in hand. The whole purpose of filing of

these bail applications by the petitioners is thus to keep themselves

away from the police and to avoid interrogation so that their misdeeds Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 13 of 14 may not be revealed and the misappropriated property may not be

unearthed. Thus, the case of Babu Singh (supra) also has no

application to the facts of this case. Thus, the petitioners are not

entitled to be released on anticipatory bail, as prayed for by them. The

bail applications filed by them are accordingly dismissed. MOOL CHAND GARG, J. MAY 27, 2009
anb Bail Applns.No.417/2007 & 2634/2007 Page 14 of 14