At the Aadhaar Samvaad event held in Delhi, Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw underscored the government’s push to modernise digital identity governance by aligning the Aadhaar framework with India’s recently passed Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (DPDP Act, 2023).

Speaking at the gathering organised by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), Vaishnaw emphasised the need to revamp the Aadhaar legislation to keep user interests at the forefront. “How the Aadhaar law can be harmonised vis-a-vis the DPDP Act — that is the task I would request the UIDAI authority to take as one of the major tasks going forward,” he said.

Reflecting on the evolution of the legal framework, he added: “When the Aadhaar Act was enacted, [at] that time there were many gaps in the legal structure. Today, those gaps have been filled up. So, we should bring a modern version of the Aadhaar Act whose objective should be to keep the user at the centre of our entire legislation.”

Alongside the call for legislative synergy, the Government also unveiled a revamped Aadhaar mobile application, designed to simplify digital identity verification while bolstering privacy. The app introduces facial recognition-based authentication, eliminating the need for users to share physical copies of their Aadhaar cards at hotels, airports, and other verification points. Instead, users will be able to scan a QR code and verify their identity by scanning their face through their smartphone.

Vaishnaw said that a two-step program was created to tackle Aadhaar card forgery and bring identity authentication completely online. He added that the first step here was facial authentication, and the second step was an easy-to-use app, which could authenticate identities within milliseconds.

The facial recognition feature builds on an earlier app, AadhaarFaceRD, which has already been in limited use for Know-Your-Customer (KYC) processes. Fingerprint and OTP-based verifications dominate – over eight crore such authentications take place daily – even though users have already completed more than 15 crore cumulative facial recognition authentications, showing its growing adoption.

For now, the upgraded Aadhaar app is available only to a select group of early adopters, including participants of the Aadhaar Samvaad event. UIDAI has stated it will expand access after incorporating feedback from users and partner organisations.

Vaishnaw pointed out that current systems repeatedly ask citizens for consent and identity proof across different services, creating unnecessary redundancy. In this context, he pointed towards developing a legal framework to ensure citizens get access to services easily: hinting at a smoother, consent-based, privacy-focused authentication ecosystem.

Analysts suggest the amendments will aim to prevent Aadhaar data from being reused for purposes beyond the original consent, ensuring tighter controls over data sharing and retention.

In another move to broaden Aadhaar’s utility, the Government recently allowed private entities to conduct Aadhaar-based authentication under the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Amendment Rules, 2025. This opens the door for businesses to use Aadhaar for user verification, with the goal of enhancing services in the e-commerce and health sectors, among others, particularly for fostering innovation and improving user access.

However, digital rights experts have urged caution. For instance Dhruv Garg, a tech policy lawyer at the Indian Governance and Policy Project, said that the Government should focus on restricting the use of Aadhaar in areas where it’s not necessary.

As the Government finalises the DPDP Rules and prepares to update the Aadhaar Act, 2016 – expect clearer language and tighter integration with the DPDP Act – in the coming months, India’s digital identity ecosystem is moving toward a future that prioritises security, user rights, and privacy.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event