J U D G M E N T

Shah, J. COURT'S JURISDICTION UNDER SECTION 34 OF THE
ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT, 1966

Before dealing with the issues involved in this appeal, we
would first decide the main point in controversy, namely - the ambit
and scope of Court's jurisdiction in case where award passed by the
Arbitral Tribunal is challenged under Section 34 of the Arbitration
and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") as the
decision in this appeal would depend upon the said finding. In other
words - whether the Court would have jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act to set aside an award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal which
is patently illegal or in contravention of the provisions of the Act or
any other substantive law governing the parties or is against the terms
of the contract? Learned senior counsel Mr. Ashok Desai appearing for the
appellant submitted that in case where there is clear violation of Sections 28 to 31 of the Act or the terms of the Contract between the
parties, the said award can be and is required to be set aside by the
Court while exercising jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act. Mr. Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf
of respondent - company submitted to the contrary and contended that
the Court's jurisdiction under Section 34 is limited and the award
could be set aside mainly on the ground that the same is in conflict
with the 'Public Policy of India'. According to his submission, the
phrase 'Public Policy of India' cannot be interpreted to mean that in
case of violation of some provisions of law, the Court can set aside the
award. For deciding this controversy, we would refer to the relevant
part of Section 34 which reads as under:- Provided that, if the decisions on matters submitted
to arbitration can be separated from those not so
submitted, only that part of the arbitral award which
contains decisions on matters not submitted to arbitration
may be set aside; or (v)	the composition of the arbitral tribunal or
the arbitral procedure was not in
accordance with the agreement of the
parties, unless such agreement was in
conflict with a provision of this Part from
which the parties cannot derogate, or, failing
such agreement, was not in accordance with
this Part; or (b)	the court finds that- (i)	the subject-matter of the dispute is not
capable of settlement by arbitration under
the law for the time being in force, or (ii)	the arbitral award is in conflict with the
public policy of India. Explanation-Without prejudice to the generality
of sub-clause (ii), it is hereby declared, for the avoidance
of any doubt, that an award is in conflict with the public
policy of India if the making of the award was induced
or affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation of Section 75 or Section 81 ." For our purpose, it is not necessary to refer to the scope of self
explanatory Clauses (i) to (iv) of sub-section (2)(a) of Section 34 of
the Act and it does not require elaborate discussion. However, clause (v) of sub- section 2(a) and clause (ii) of sub- section 2(b) require
consideration.	For proper adjudication of the question of jurisdiction,
we shall first consider what meaning could be assigned to the term
'Arbitral Procedure'. 'ARBITRAL PROCEDURE'

The ingredients of clause (v) are as under:- However, exception for setting aside the award on the ground
of composition of arbitral tribunal or illegality of arbitral procedure is
that the agreement should not be in conflict with the provisions of Part-I of the Act from which parties cannot derogate. In the aforesaid sub-clause (v), the emphasis is on the
agreement and the provisions of Part-I of the Act from which parties
cannot derogate. It means that the composition of arbitral tribunal
should be in accordance with the agreement. Similarly, the procedure
which is required to be followed by the arbitrators should also be in
accordance with the agreement of the parties. If there is no such
agreement then it should be in accordance with the procedure
prescribed in the Part-I of the Act i.e. Sections 2 to 43 . At the same
time, agreement for composition of arbitral tribunal or arbitral
procedure should not be in conflict with the provisions of the Act
from which parties cannot derogate. Chapter V of Part-I of the Act
provides for conduct of arbitral proceedings. Section 18 mandates
that parties to the arbitral proceedings shall be treated with equality
and each party shall be given full opportunity to present his case. Section 19 specifically provides that arbitral tribunal is not bound by the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 or the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and parties are free to agree on the procedure to be followed by the
arbitral tribunal in conducting its proceedings. Failing any agreement
between the parties subject to other provisions of Part-I, the arbitral
tribunal is to conduct the proceedings in the manner it considers
appropriate. This power includes the power to determine the
admissibility, relevance, the materiality and weight of any evidence. Sections 20 , 21 and 22 deal with place of arbitration, commencement
of arbitral proceedings and language respectively. Thereafter, Sections 23 , 24 and 25 deal with statements of claim and defence,
hearings and written proceedings and procedure to be followed in case
of default of a party. At this stage, we would refer to Section 24 which is as under:- Thereafter, Chapter VI deals with making of arbitral award and
termination of proceedings. Relevant Sections which require
consideration are Sections 28 and 31 . Sections 28 and 31 read as
under:- 31. Form and contents of arbitral award- (1) An
arbitral award shall be made in writing and shall be
signed by the members of the arbitral tribunal. (2)	For the purposes of sub-section (1), in
arbitral proceedings with more than one arbitrator, the
signatures of the majority of all the members of the
arbitral tribunal shall be sufficient so long as the reason
for any omitted signature is stated. (3)	The arbitral award shall state the reasons
upon which it is based, unless- (a)	the parties have agreed that no reasons are to
be given, or (b)	the award is an arbitral award on agreed
terms under section 30 . (4)	The arbitral award shall state its date and the
place of arbitration as determined in accordance with section 20 and the award shall be deemed to have been
made at that place. (5)	After the arbitral award is made, a signed
copy shall be delivered to each party. (6)	The arbitral tribunal may, at any time during
the arbitral proceedings, make an interim arbitral award
on any matter with respect to which it may make a final
arbitral award. (7)(a).	 Unless otherwise agreed by the parties,
where and in so far as an arbitral award is for the
payment of money, the arbitral tribunal may include in
the sum for which the award is made interest, at such rate
as it deems reasonable, on the whole or any part of the
money, for the whole or any part of the period between
the date on which the cause of action arose and the date
on which the award is made. (b)	A sum directed to be paid by an arbitral
award shall, unless the award otherwise directs, carry
interest at the rate of eighteen per centum per annum
from the date of the award to the date of payment. (8)	Unless otherwise agreed by the parties,- (a)	the costs of an arbitration shall be fixed by
the arbitral tribunal; (b)	the arbitral tribunal shall specify,- (i)	the party entitled to costs, (ii)	the party who shall pay the costs, (iii)	the amount of costs or method of
determining that amount, and (iv)	the manner in which the costs shall be
paid. Explanation: For the purpose of clause (a), "costs"
means reasonable costs relating to,- (i)	the fees and expenses of the arbitrators and
witnesses, (ii)	legal fees and expenses, (iii)	any administration fees of the institution
supervising the arbitration, and (iv)	any other expenses incurred in connection
with the arbitral proceedings and the arbitral
award." The aforesaid provisions prescribe the procedure to be followed
by the arbitral tribunal coupled with its powers. Power and procedure
are synonymous in the present case. By prescribing the procedure, the
arbitral tribunal is empowered and is required to decide the dispute in
accordance with the provisions of the Act, that is to say, the
jurisdiction of the tribunal to decide the dispute is prescribed. In these
sections there is no distinction between the jurisdiction/power and the
procedure. In Harish Chandra Bajpai v. Triloki Singh [1957 SCR
370], while dealing with Sections 90 and 92 of the Representation of
the People Act, 1951 (as it stood), this Court observed thus:- Hence, the jurisdiction or the power of the arbitral tribunal is
prescribed under the Act and if the award is de hors the said
provisions, it would be, on the face of it, illegal. The decision of the
Tribunal must be within the bounds of its jurisdiction conferred under
the Act or the contract. In exercising jurisdiction, the arbitral tribunal
can not act in breach of some provision of substantive law or the
provisions of the Act. The question, therefore, which requires consideration is -
whether the award could be set aside, if the arbitral tribunal has not
followed the mandatory procedure prescribed under Sections 24 , 28 or
31(3), which affects the rights of the parties?	 Under sub-section (1)(a)
of Section 28 there is a mandate to the arbitral tribunal to decide the
dispute in accordance with the substantive law for the time being in
force in India.	 Admittedly, substantive law would include the Indian
Contract Act, the Transfer of Property Act and other such laws in
force.	Suppose, if the award is passed in violation of the provisions of
the Transfer of Property Act or in violation of the Indian Contract Act ,
the question would be - whether such award could be set aside?
Similarly, under sub-section (3), arbitral tribunal is directed to decide
the dispute in accordance with the terms of the contract and also after
taking into account the usage of the trade applicable to the transaction.
If arbitral tribunal ignores the terms of the contract or usage of the
trade applicable to the transaction, whether the said award could be
interfered? Similarly, if the award is non-speaking one and is in
violation of Section 31(3) , can such award be set aside? In our view,
reading Section 34 conjointly with other provisions of the Act, it
appears that the legislative intent could not be that if the award is in
contravention of the provisions of the Act, still however, it couldn't be
set aside by the Court.	 If it is held that such award could not be
interfered, it would be contrary to basic concept of justice. If the
arbitral tribunal has not followed the mandatory procedure prescribed
under the Act, it would mean that it has acted beyond its jurisdiction
and thereby the award would be patently illegal which could be set
aside under Section 34 . The aforesaid interpretation of the clause (v) would be in
conformity with the settled principle of law that the procedural law
cannot fail to provide relief when substantive law gives the right.
Principle is - there cannot be any wrong without a remedy. In M.V.
Elisabeth and others v. Harwan Investment & Trading Pvt. Ltd. [1993 Supp. (2) SCC 433] this Court observed that where substantive
law demands justice for the party aggrieved and the statute has not
provided the remedy, it is the duty of the Court to devise procedure by
drawing analogy from other systems of law and practice. Similarly, in
Dhanna Lal v. Kalawatibai and others [(2002) 6 SCC 16] this Court
observed that wrong must not be left unredeemed and right not left
unenforced. Result is - if the award is contrary to the substantive
provisions of law or the provisions of the Act or against the terms of
the contract, it would be patently illegal, which could be interfered
under Section 34 . However, such failure of procedure should be
patent affecting the rights of the parties. WHAT MEANING COULD BE ASSIGNED TO THE PHRASE
'PUBLIC POLICY	OF INDIA'? The next clause which requires interpretation is clause (ii) of
sub- section 2(b) of Section 34 which inter alia provides that the Court
may set aside arbitral award if it is in conflict with the 'Public Policy
of India'. The phrase 'Public Policy of India' is not defined under the
Act. Hence, the said term is required to be given meaning in context
and also considering the purpose of the section and scheme of the Act.
It has been repeatedly stated by various authorities that the expression
'public policy' does not admit of precise definition and may vary from
generation to generation and from time to time.	 Hence, the concept
'public policy' is considered to be vague, susceptible to narrow or
wider meaning depending upon the context in which it is used.
Lacking precedent the Court has to give its meaning in the light and
principles underlying the Arbitration Act, Contract Act and
Constitutional provisions. For this purpose, we would refer to few decisions referred to by
the learned counsel for the parties. While dealing with the concept of
'public policy, this Court in Central Inland Water Transport
Corporation Limited and another v. Brojo Nath Ganguly and
another [(1986) 3 SCC 156] has observed thus: - From the very nature of things, the expressions "public
policy", "opposed to public policy", or "contrary to
public policy" are incapable of precise definition. Public
policy, however, is not the policy of a particular
government. It connotes some matter which concerns the
public good and the public interest. The concept of what
is for the public good or in the public interest or what
would be injurious or harmful to the public good or the
public interest has varied from time to time. As new
concepts take the place of old, transactions which were
once considered against public policy are now being
upheld by the courts and similarly where there has been a
well recognized head of public policy, the courts have
not shirked from extending it to the new transactions and
changed circumstances and have at times not even
flinched from inventing a new head of public policy.
There are two schools of thought- "the narrow view" Further, in Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co. [1994 Supp. (1) SCC 644], this Court considered Section 7(1) of the
Arbitration (Protocol and Convention) Act, 1937 which inter alia
provided that a foreign award may not be enforced under the said Act,
if the Court dealing with the case is satisfied that the enforcement of
the award will be contrary to the Public Policy. After elaborate
discussion, the Court arrived at the conclusion that Public Policy
comprehended in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards
(Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1961 is the 'Public Policy of
India' and does not cover the public policy of any other country. For
giving meaning to the term 'Public Policy', the Court observed
thus:- The Court finally held that:- This Court in Murlidhar Agarwal and another v. State of U.P.
and others [1974 (2) SCC 472] while dealing with the concept of
'public policy' observed thus:- Mr. Desai submitted that the narrow meaning given to the term
'public policy' in Renusagar 's case is in context of the fact that the
question involved in the said matter was with regard to the execution
of the award which had attained finality. It was not a case where
validity of the Award is challenged before a forum prescribed under
the Act. He submitted that the scheme of Section 34 which deals with
setting aside the domestic arbitral award and Section 48 which deals
with enforcement of foreign award are not identical. A foreign award
by definition is subject to double exequatur. This is recognized inter
alia by Section 48 (1) and there is no parallel provision to this clause
in Section 34 .	For this, he referred to Lord Mustill & Stewart C.
Boyd QC's "Commercial Arbitration" 2001 wherein [at page 90] it is
stated as under:- He further submitted that in foreign arbitration, the award
would be subject to being set aside or suspended by the competent
authority under the relevant law of that country whereas in the
domestic arbitration the only recourse is to Section 34 . The aforesaid submission of the learned senior counsel requires
to be accepted.	 From the judgments discussed above, it can be held
that the term 'public policy of India' is required to be interpreted in
the context of the jurisdiction of the Court where the validity of award
is challenged before it becomes final and executable. The concept of
enforcement of the award after it becomes final is different and the
jurisdiction of the Court at that stage could be limited. Similar is the
position with regard to the execution of a decree. It is settled law as
well as it is provided under Code of Civil Procedure that once the
decree has attained finality, in an execution proceeding, it may be
challenged only on limited grounds such as the decree being without
jurisdiction or nullity. But in a case where the judgment and decree is
challenged before the Appellate Court or the Court exercising
revisional jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of such Court would be wider.
Therefore, in a case where the validity of award is challenged there is
no necessity of giving a narrower meaning to the term 'public policy
of India'. On the contrary, wider meaning is required to be given so
that the 'patently illegal award' passed by the arbitral tribunal could
be set aside. If narrow meaning as contended by the learned senior
counsel Mr. Dave is given, some of the provisions of the Arbitration
Act would become nugatory. Take for illustration a case wherein
there is a specific provision in the contract that for delayed payment of
the amount due and payable, no interest would be payable, still
however, if the Arbitrator has passed an award granting interest, it
would be against the terms of the contract and thereby against the
provision of Section 28(3) of the Act which specifically provides that
"arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the
contract". Further, where there is a specific usage of the trade that if
the payment is made beyond a period of one month, then the party
would be required to pay the said amount with interest at the rate of
15 per cent. Despite the evidence being produced on record for such
usage, if the arbitrator refuses to grant such interest on the ground of
equity, such award would also be in violation of sub-sections (2) and
(3) of Section 28 . Section 28(2) specifically provides that arbitrator
shall decide ex aequo et bono [according to what is just and good]
only if the parties have expressly authorised him to do so. Similarly,
if the award is patently against the statutory provisions of substantive
law which is in force in India or is passed without giving an
opportunity of hearing to the parties as provided under Section 24 or
without giving any reason in a case where parties have not agreed that
no reasons are to be recorded, it would be against the statutory
provisions. In all such cases, the award is required to be set aside on
the ground of 'patent illegality'. The learned senior counsel Mr. Dave submitted that the
Parliament has not made much change while adopting Article 34 of
UNCITRAL Model Law by not providing error of law as a ground of
challenge to the arbitral award under Section 34 of the Act. For this
purpose, he referred to Sections 68 , 69 and 70 of the Arbitration Act,
1996 applicable in England and submitted that if the legislature
wanted to give a wider jurisdiction to the Court, it would have done so
by adopting similar provisions. Section 68 of the law applicable in England provides that the
award can be challenged on the ground of serious irregularities
mentioned therein. Section 68 reads thus: - A party may lose the right to object (see Section 73 ) and
the right to apply is subject to the restrictions in section
70(2) and (3). (2)	Serious irregularity means an irregularity of one or
more of the following kinds which the court considers
has caused or will cause substantial injustice to the
applicant- (a)	failure by the tribunal to comply with section 33 (general duty of tribunal); (b)	the tribunal exceeding its powers (otherwise
than by exceeding its substantive
jurisdiction: see section 67 ); (c)	failure by the tribunal to conduct the
proceedings in accordance with the
procedure agreed by the parties; (d)	failure by the tribunal to deal with all the
issues that were put to it; (e)	any arbitral or other institution or person
vested by the parties with powers in relation
to the proceedings or the award exceeding
its powers; (f)	uncertainty or ambiguity as to the effect of
the award; (g)	the award being obtained by fraud or the
award or the way in which it was procured
being contrary to public policy; (h)	failure to comply with the requirement as to
the form of the award; or (i)	any irregularity in the conduct of the
proceedings or in the award which is
admitted by the tribunal or by any arbitral or
other institution or person vested by the
parties with powers in relation to the
proceedings or the award. (3)	If there is shown to be serious irregularity affecting
the tribunal, the proceedings or the award, the court
may- (a)	remit the award to the tribunal, in whole or
in part, for reconsideration; (b)	set the award aside in whole or in part, or (c)	declare the award to be of no effect, in
whole or in part. The Court shall not exercise its power to set aside or to
declare an award to be of no effect, in whole or in part,
unless it is satisfied that it would be inappropriate to
remit the matters in question to the tribunal for
reconsideration. (4)	The leave of the Court is required for any appeal
from a decision of the court under this section." Similarly, Section 69 provides that appeal on point of law
would be maintainable and the procedure thereof is also provided. Section 70 provides supplementary provisions. It is true that Legislature has not incorporated exhaustive
grounds for challenging the award passed by the arbitral tribunal or
the ground on which appeal against the order of the Court would be
maintainable. On this aspect, eminent Jurist & Senior Advocate Late Mr.
Nani Palkhivala while giving his opinion to 'Law of Arbitration and
Conciliation' by Justice Dr. B.P. Saraf and Justice S.M.
Jhunjhunuwala, noted thus:- From this discussion it would be clear that the phrase 'public
policy of India' is not required to be given a narrower meaning. As
stated earlier, the said term is susceptible of narrower or wider
meaning depending upon the object and purpose of the legislation.
Hence, the award which is passed in contravention of Sections 24 , 28 or 31 could be set aside. In addition to Section 34 , Section 13(5) of
the Act also provides that constitution of the arbitral tribunal could
also be challenged by a party.	Similarly, Section 16 provides that a
party aggrieved by the decision of the arbitral tribunal with regard to
its jurisdiction could challenge such arbitral award under Section 34 .
In any case, it is for the Parliament to provide for limited or wider
jurisdiction to the Court in case where award is challenged. But in
such cases, there is no reason to give narrower meaning to the term
'public policy of India' as contended by learned senior counsel Mr.
Dave. In our view, wider meaning is required to be given so as to
prevent frustration of legislation and justice.	 This Court in Rattan
Chand Hira Chand v. Askar Nawaz Jung (Dead) By LRs and others [(1991) 3 SCC 67], this Court observed thus:- Learned senior counsel Mr. Dave submitted that the purpose of
giving limited jurisdiction to the Court is obvious and is to see that the
disputes are resolved at the earliest by giving finality to the award
passed by the forum chosen by the parties. As against this, learned
senior counsel Mr. Desai submitted that in the present system even the
arbitral proceedings are delayed on one or the other ground including
the ground that the arbitrator is not free and the matters are not
disposed of for months together. He submitted that the legislature has
not provided any time limit for passing of the award and this indicates
that the contention raised by the learned counsel for the respondent
has no bearing in interpreting Section 34 . It is true that under the Act, there is no provision similar to Sections 23 and 28 of the Arbitration Act, 1940, which specifically
provided that the arbitrator shall pass award within reasonable time as
fixed by the Court. It is also true that on occasions, arbitration
proceedings are delayed for one or other reason, but it is for the
parties to take appropriate action of selecting proper arbitrator(s) who
could dispose of the matter within reasonable time fixed by them. It is
for them to indicate the time limit for disposal of the arbitral
proceedings. It is for them to decide whether they should continue
with the arbitrator(s) who cannot dispose of the matter within
reasonable time. However, non-providing of time limit for deciding
the dispute by the arbitrators could have no bearing on interpretation
of Section 34 .	Further, for achieving the object of speedier disposal of
dispute, justice in accordance with law cannot be sacrificed. In our
view, giving limited jurisdiction to the Court for having finality to the
award and resolving the dispute by speedier method would be much
more frustrated by permitting patently illegal award to operate.
Patently illegal award is required to be set at naught, otherwise it
would promote injustice. Therefore, in our view, the phrase 'Public Policy of India' used
in Section 34 in context is required to be given a wider meaning. It
can be stated that the concept of public policy connotes some matter
which concerns public good and the public interest. What is for
public good or in public interest or what would be injurious or
harmful to the public good or public interest has varied from time to
time. However, the award which is, on the face of it, patently in
violation of statutory provisions cannot be said to be in public interest.
Such award/judgment/decision is likely to adversely affect the
administration of justice. Hence, in our view in addition to narrower
meaning given to the term 'public policy' in Renusagar 's case
(supra), it is required to be held that the award could be set aside if it
is patently illegal. Result would be - award could be set aside if it is
contrary to: - Illegality must go to the root of the matter and if the illegality is of
trivial nature it cannot be held that award is against the public policy.
Award could also be set aside if it is so unfair and unreasonable that it
shocks the conscience of the Court. Such award is opposed to public
policy and is required to be adjudged void. NOW ON FACTS:- As against this, learned senior counsel Mr. Dave submitted that
it is settled law that for the breach of contract provisions of Section 74 of the Contract Act would be applicable and compensation / damages
could be awarded only if the loss is suffered because of the breach of
contract. He submitted that this principle is laid down by the Privy
Council as early as in 1929 in Bhai Panna Singh and others v. Bhai
Arjun Singh and others [AIR 1929 PC 179], wherein the Privy
Council observed thus: - He submitted that this Court has also held that the plaintiff
claiming liquidated damages has to prove the loss suffered by him. In
support of this contention, he referred to and relied upon various
decisions. In any case, it is his contention that even if there is any
error in arriving at the said conclusion, the award cannot be interfered
with under Section 34 of the Act. At this stage, we would refer to the relevant terms of the
contract upon which learned counsel for the appellant has based his
submissions, which are as under: - estimate of damages duly agreed by the parties)
which the contractor has failed to deliver within
the period fixed for delivery in the schedule, where
delivery thereof is accepted after expiry of the
aforesaid period. It may be noted that such
recovery of liquidated damages may be upto 10%
of the contract price of whole unit of stores which
the contractor has failed to deliver within the
period fixed for delivery, or (e)	It may further be noted that clause (a) provides for
recovery of liquidated damages on the cost of
contract price of delayed supplies (whole unit) at
the rate of 1% of the contract price of the whole
unit per week for such delay or part thereof upto a
ceiling of 10% of the contract price of delayed
supplies (whole unit).	Liquidated damages for
delay in supplies thus accrued will be recovered
by the paying authorities of the purchaser
specified in the supply order, from the bill for
payment of the cost of material submitted by the
contractor or his foreign principals in accordance
with the terms of supply order or otherwise. (f)	Notwithstanding anything stated above, equipment
and materials will be deemed to have been
delivered only when all its components, parts are
also delivered.	 If certain components are not
delivered in time the equipment and material will
be considered as delayed until such time all the
missing parts are also delivered. 12.	Levy of liquidated damages (LD) due to delay in
supplies. LD will be imposed on the total value of the order
unless 75% of the value ordered is supplied within the
stipulate delivery period. Where 75% of the value
ordered has been supplied within stipulated delivery
period.	 LD will be imposed on the order value of
delayed supply(ies). However, where in judgment of
ONGC, the supply of partial quantity does not fulfill the
operating need, LD will be imposed on full value of the
supply order. 34.4	Delay in Release of Payment: - Further, at the time when respondent sought extension of time
for supply of goods, time was extended by letter dated 4.12.1996 with
a specific demand that the clause for liquidated damages would be
invoked and appellant would recover the same for such delay.
Despite this specific letter written by the appellant, respondent had
supplied the goods which would indicate that even at that stage,
respondent was agreeable to pay liquidated damages. On this issue, learned counsel for the parties referred to the
interpretation given to Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act
in Sir Chunilal V. Mehta & Sons Ltd. v. The Century Spinning and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd. [1962 Supp. ( 3) SCR 549], Fateh Chand v.
Balkishan Das [(1964) 1 SCR 515 at 526], Maula Bux v. Union of
India [( 1969) 2 SCC 554] Union of India v. Rampur Distillery and
Chemical Co. Ltd. [( 1973) 1 SCC 649] and Union of India v. Raman
Iron Foundry [(1974) 2 SCC 231]. Relevant part of Sections 73 and 74 of Contract Act are as
under:- From the aforesaid Sections, it can be held that when a contract
has been broken, the party who suffers by such breach is entitled to
receive compensation for any loss which naturally arise in the usual
course of things from such breach. These sections further
contemplate that if parties knew when they made the contract that a
particular loss is likely to result from such breach, they can agree for
payment of such compensation. In such a case, there may not be any
necessity of leading evidence for proving damages, unless the Court
arrives at the conclusion that no loss is likely to occur because of such
breach.	 Further, in case where Court arrives at the conclusion that the
term contemplating damages is by way of penalty, the Court may
grant reasonable compensation not exceeding the amount so named in
the contract on proof of damages. However, when the terms of the
contract are clear and unambiguous then its meaning is to be gathered
only from the words used therein. In a case where agreement is
executed by experts in the field, it would be difficult to hold that the
intention of the parties was different from the language used therein.
In such a case, it is for the party who contends that stipulated amount
is not reasonable compensation, to prove the same. Now, we would refer to various decisions on the subject. In Fateh Chand 's case (supra), the plaintiff made a claim to forfeit a
sum of Rs.25000/- received by him from the defendant. The sum of
Rs.25000/- consisted of two items - Rs.1000/- received as earnest
money and Rs.24000/- agreed to be paid by the defendant as out of
sale price against the delivery of possession of the property.	With
regard to earnest money, the Court held that the plaintiff was entitled
to forfeit the same. With regard to claim of remaining sum of
Rs.24000/-, the Court referred to Section 74 of Indian Contract Act
and observed that Section 74 deals with the measure of damages in
two classes of cases (i) where the contract names a sum to be paid in
case of breach, and (ii) where the contract contains any other
stipulation by way of penalty. The Court observed thus: - From the aforesaid decision, it is clear that the Court was not
dealing with a case where contract named a sum to be paid in case of
breach but with a case where the contract contained stipulation by
way of penalty. The aforesaid case and other cases were referred to by three
Judge Bench in Maula Bux 's case (supra) wherein the Court held
thus: - In Rampur Distillery and Chemical Co. Ltd. 's (supra) also,
two Judge Bench of this Court referred to Maula Bux 's case and
observed thus: - In Raman Iron Foundry 's case (supra), this Court considered
clause 18 of the Contract between the parties and arrived at the
conclusion that it applied only where the purchaser has a claim for a
sum presently due and payable by the contractor. Thereafter, the
Court observed thus: - Firstly, it is to be stated that in the aforesaid case Court has not
referred to earlier decision rendered by the five Judge Bench in Fateh
Chand 's case or the decision rendered by the three Judge Bench in Maula Bux 's case. Further, in M/s H.M. Kamaluddin Ansari and
Co. v. Union of India and others [(1983) 4 SCC 417], three Judge
Bench of this Court has over-ruled the decision in Raman Iron
Foundry 's case (supra) and the Court while interpreting similar term
of the contract observed that it gives wider power to Union of India to
recover the amount claimed by appropriating any sum then due or
which at any time may become due to the contractors under other
contracts and the Court observed that clause 18 of the Standard
Contract confers ample powers on the Union of India to withhold the
amount and no injunction order could be passed restraining the Union
of India from withholding the amount. In the light of the aforesaid decisions, in our view, there is
much force in the contention raised by the learned counsel for the
appellant. However, the learned senior counsel Mr. Dave submitted
that even if the award passed by the arbitral tribunal is erroneous, it is
settled law that when two views are possible with regard to
interpretation of statutory provisions and or facts, the Court would
refuse to interfere with such award. It is true that if the arbitral tribunal has committed mere error of
fact or law in reaching its conclusion on the disputed question
submitted to it for adjudication then the Court would have no
jurisdiction to interfere with the award. But, this would depend upon
reference made to the arbitrator: (a) If there is a general reference for
deciding the contractual dispute between the parties and if the award
is based on erroneous legal proposition, the Court could interfere; (b)
It is also settled law that in a case of reasoned award, the Court can set
aside the same if it is, on the face of it, erroneous on the proposition of
law or its application; (c) If a specific question of law is submitted to
the arbitrator, erroneous decision in point of law does not make the
award bad, so as to permit of its being set aside, unless the Court is
satisfied that the arbitrator had proceeded illegally. In the facts of the case, it cannot be disputed that if contractual
term, as it is, is to be taken into consideration, the award is, on the
face of it, erroneous and in violation of the terms of the contract and
thereby it violates Section 28(3) of the Act. Undisputedly, reference
to the arbitral tribunal was not with regard to interpretation of
question of law. It was only a general reference with regard to claim
of respondent.	Hence, if the award is erroneous on the basis of record
with regard to proposition of law or its application, the Court will
have jurisdiction to interfere with the same. Dealing with the similar question, this Court in M/s Alopi
Parshad & Sons Ltd. v. The Union of India [(1960) 2 SCR 793]
observed that the extent of jurisdiction of the Court to set aside the
award on the ground of an error in making the award is well defined
and held thus:- The Court thereafter referred to the decision rendered in Seth
Thawardas Pherumal v. The Union of India [(1955) 2 SCR 48]
wherein Bose, J. delivering the judgment of the Court had observed: The learned Judge also observed at p. 59 after
referring to F.R. Absalom Ltd. v. Great Western
(London) Garden Village Society [1933] AC 592, 616: Further, in Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. Sterilite
Industries (India) and Another [(2001) 8 SCC 482], the Court
observed as under:- 10. In Arosan Enterprises Ltd. v. Union of India [1999 (9) SCC 449], this Court again examined this
matter and stated that where the error of finding of fact
having a bearing on the award is patent and is easily
demonstrable without the necessity of carefully weighing
the various possible viewpoints, the interference in the
award based on an erroneous finding of fact is
permissible and similarly, if an award is based by
applying a principle of	 law which is patently erroneous,
and but for such erroneous application of legal principle,
the award could not have been made, such award is liable
to be set aside by holding that there has been a legal
misconduct on the part of the arbitrator." Next question is - whether the legal proposition which is the
basis of the award for arriving at the conclusion that ONGC was not
entitled to recover the stipulated liquidated damages as it has failed to
establish that it has suffered any loss is erroneous on the face of it?
The arbitral tribunal after considering the decisions rendered by this
Court in the cases of Fateh Chand, Maula Bux and Rampur
Distillery (supra) arrived at the conclusion that "in view of these three
decisions of the Supreme Court, it is clear that it was for the
respondents to establish that they had suffered any loss because of the
breach committed by the claimant in the supply of goods under the
contract between the parties after 14th November, 1996.	 In the words
we have emphasized in Maula Bux decision, it is clear that if loss in
terms of money can be determined, the party claiming the
compensation 'must prove' the loss suffered by him". Thereafter the arbitral tribunal referred to the evidence and the
following statement made by the witness Das: Further, the arbitral tribunal came to the conclusion that under
these circumstances, the shortage of casing pipes of 26" diameter and
30" diameter pipes was not the only reason which led to redeployment
of rig Trident II to Platform B 121. The arbitral tribunal also
appreciated the other evidence and held that the attempt on the part of
the ONGC to show that production of gas on Platform B 121 was
delayed because of the late supply of goods by the claimant failed.
Thereafter, the arbitral tribunal considered the contention raised by the
learned counsel for the ONGC that the amount of 10% which had
been deducted by way of liquidated damages for the late supply of
goods under the contract was not by way of penalty. In response
thereto, it was pointed out that it was not the case of learned counsel
Mr. Setalwad on behalf of the claimants that "these stipulations in the
contract for deduction of liquidated damages was by way of penalty".
Further, the arbitral tribunal observed that in view of the decisions
rendered in Fateh Chand and Maula Bux cases, "all that we are
required to consider is whether the respondents have established their
case of actual	loss in money terms because of the delay in the supply
of the Casing Pipes under the contract between the parties". Finally,
the arbitral tribunal held that as the appellant has failed to prove the
loss suffered because of delay in supply of goods as set out in the
contract between the parties, it is required to refund the amount
deducted by way of liquidated damages from the specified amount
payable to the respondent. It is apparent from the aforesaid reasoning recorded by the
arbitral tribunal that it failed to consider Sections 73 and 74 of the
Indian Contract Act and the ratio laid down in Fateh Chand 's case
(supra) wherein it is specifically held that jurisdiction of the Court to
award compensation in case of breach of contract is unqualified
except as to the maximum stipulated; and compensation has to be
reasonable. Under Section 73 , when a contract has been broken, the
party who suffers by such breach is entitled to receive compensation
for any loss caused to him which the parties knew when they made the
contract to be likely to result from the breach of it.	This Section is to
be read with Section 74 , which deals with penalty stipulated in the
contract, inter alia [relevant for the present case] provides that when a
contract has been broken, if a sum is named in the contract as the
amount to be paid in case of such breach, the party complaining of
breach is entitled, whether or not actual loss is proved to have been
caused, thereby to receive from the party who has broken the contract
reasonable compensation not exceeding the amount so named. Section 74 emphasizes that in case of breach of contract, the party
complaining of the breach is entitled to receive reasonable
compensation whether or not actual loss is proved to have been
caused by such breach.	Therefore, the emphasis is on reasonable
compensation. If the compensation named in the contract is by way
of penalty, consideration would be different and the party is only
entitled to reasonable compensation for the loss suffered. But if the
compensation named in the contract for such breach is genuine pre-
estimate of loss which the parties knew when they made the contract
to be likely to result from the breach of it, there is no question of
proving such loss or such party is not required to lead evidence to
prove actual loss suffered by him. Burden is on the other party to lead
evidence for proving that no loss is likely to occur by such breach.
Take for illustration: if the parties have agreed to purchase cotton
bales and the same were only to be kept as a stock-in-trade. Such
bales are not delivered on the due date and thereafter the bales are
delivered beyond the stipulated time, hence there is breach of the
contract. Question which would arise for consideration is - whether
by such breach party has suffered any loss. If the price of cotton bales
fluctuated during that time, loss or gain could easily be proved. But if
cotton bales are to be purchased for manufacturing yarn, consideration
would be different. In Maula Bux 's case (supra), plaintiff - Maula Bux entered
into a contract with the Government of India to supply potatoes at the
Military Head Quarters, U.P. Area and deposited an amount of
Rs.10000/- as security for due performance of the contract. He
entered into another contract with the Government of India to supply
at the same place poultry eggs and fish for one year and deposited an
amount of Rs.8500/- for due performance of the contract. Plaintiff
having made persistent default in making regular and full supplies of
the commodities agreed to be supplied, the Government rescinded the
contracts and forfeited the amounts deposited by the plaintiff, because
under the terms of the agreement, the amounts deposited by the
plaintiff as security for the due performance of the contracts were to
stand forfeited in case plaintiff neglected to perform his part of the
contract. In context of these facts, Court held that it was possible for
the Government of India to lead evidence to prove the rates at which
potatoes, poultry, eggs and fish were purchased by them when the
plaintiff failed to deliver "regularly and fully" the quantities stipulated
under the terms of the contracts and after the contracts were
terminated. They could have proved the rates at which they had to be
purchased and also the other incidental charges incurred by them in
procuring the goods contracted for. But no such attempt was made.
Hence, claim for damages was not granted. In Maula Bux 's case (supra), the Court has specifically held
that it is true that in every case of breach of contract the person
aggrieved by the breach is not required to prove actual loss or damage
suffered by him before he can claim a decree and the Court is
competent to award reasonable compensation in a case of breach even
if no actual damage is proved to have been suffered in consequence of
the breach of contract.	 The Court has also specifically held that in
case of breach of some contracts it may be impossible for the Court to
assess compensation arising from breach. Take for illustration construction of a road or a bridge. If there
is delay in completing the construction of road or bridge within
stipulated time, then it would be difficult to prove how much loss is
suffered by the Society / State. Similarly, in the present case, delay
took place in deployment of rigs and on that basis actual production of
gas from platform B-121 had to be changed. It is undoubtedly true
that the witness has stated that redeployment plan was made keeping
in mind several constraints including shortage of casing pipes.
Arbitral Tribunal, therefore, took into consideration the aforesaid
statement volunteered by the witness that shortage of casing pipes was
only one of the several reasons and not the only reason which led to
change in deployment of plan or redeployment of rigs Trident-II
platform B-121.	 In our view, in such a contract, it would be difficult
to prove exact loss or damage which the parties suffer because of the
breach thereof.	 In such a situation, if the parties have pre-estimated
such loss after clear understanding, it would be totally unjustified to
arrive at the conclusion that party who has committed breach of the
contract is not liable to pay compensation. It would be against the
specific provisions of Section 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act.
There was nothing on record that compensation contemplated by the
parties was in any way unreasonable. It has been specifically
mentioned that it was an agreed genuine pre-estimate of damages duly
agreed by the parties.	It was also mentioned that the liquidated
damages are not by way of penalty. It was also provided in the
contract that such damages are to be recovered by the purchaser from
the bills for payment of the cost of material submitted by the
contractor. No evidence is led by the claimant to establish that
stipulated condition was by way of penalty or the compensation
contemplated was, in any way, unreasonable. There was no reason for
the tribunal not to rely upon the clear and unambiguous terms of
agreement stipulating pre-estimate damages because of delay in
supply of goods. Further, while extending the time for delivery of the
goods, respondent was informed that it would be required to pay
stipulated damages. From the aforesaid discussions, it can be held that:- For the reasons stated above, the impugned award directing the
appellant to refund the amount deducted for the breach as per
contractual terms requires to be set aside and is hereby set aside. WHETHER THE CLAIM OF REFUND OF THE AMOUNT DEDUCTED
BY THE APPELLANT FROM THE BILLS IS DISPUTED OR
UNDISPUTED CLAIM? As the award directing the appellant to refund the amount
deducted is set aside, question of granting interest on the same would
not arise. Still however, to demonstrate that the award passed by the
arbitral tribunal is, on the face of it, erroneous with regard to grant of
interest, we deal with the same. Arbitral Tribunal arrived at the conclusion that the appellant
wrongfully withheld/deducted the aggregate amount of US $
3,04,970.20 on account of delay in supply of goods and amount of
Rs.15,75,559/- on account of excise duty, sales tax, freight charges
deducted as and by way of liquidated damages from the amount
payable by the respondent and thereafter arrived at the conclusion that
the said amount was deducted from undisputed invoice amount,
therefore, the said claim of the respondent cannot be held to be
'disputed claim'. It is apparent that the claim of the contractor to recover the said
amount was disputed mainly because it was agreed term between the
parties that in case of delay in supply of goods appellant was entitled
to recover damages at the rate as specified in the agreement. It was
also agreed that the said liquidated damages were to be recovered by
paying authorities from the bills for payment of the cost of material
submitted by the contractor. If this agreed amount is deducted and
thereafter contractor claims it back on the ground that the appellant
was not entitled to deduct the same as it has failed to prove loss
suffered by it, the said claim undoubtedly would be a 'disputed
claim'.	 The arbitrators were required to decide by considering the
facts and the law applicable, whether the deduction was justified or
not? That itself would indicate that the claim of the contractor was
'disputed claim' and not 'undisputed'.	The reason recorded by the
arbitrators that as the goods were received and bills are not disputed,
therefore, the claim for recovering the amount of bills cannot be held
to be 'disputed claim' is, on the face of it, unjust, unreasonable,
unsustainable and patently illegal as well as against the expressed
terms of the contract.	As quoted above, clause 34.4 in terms provides
that no interest would be payable on 'disputed claim'.	It also provides
that in which set of circumstances, interest amount would be paid in
case of delay in payment of undisputed claim. In such case, the
interest rate is also specified at 1% per month on such undisputed
claim amount. Despite this clause, the arbitral tribunal came to the
conclusion that it was undisputed claim and held that in law, appellant
was not entitled to withhold these two payments from the invoice
raised by the respondent and hence directed that the appellant was
liable to pay interest on wrongful deductions at the rate of 12% p.a.
from 1.4.1997 till the date of filing of the statement of claim and
thereafter having regard to the commercial nature of the transaction at
the rate of 18% p.a. pendente lite till payment. It is to be reiterated that it is the primary duty of the arbitrators
to enforce a promise which the parties have made and to uphold the
sanctity of the contract which forms the basis of the civilized society
and also the jurisdiction of the arbitrators. Hence, this part of the
award passed by the arbitral tribunal granting interest on the amount
deducted by the appellant from the bills payable to the respondent is
against the terms of the contract and is, therefore, violative of Section
28(3) of the Act. CONCLUSIONS:- However, exception for setting aside
the award on the ground of
composition of arbitral tribunal or
illegality of arbitral procedure is that
the agreement should not be in
conflict with the provisions of Part-I
of the Act from which parties cannot
derogate. (c)	If the award passed by the arbitral
tribunal is in contravention of
provisions of the Act or any other
substantive law governing the parties
or is against the terms of the contract. (3)	The award could be set aside if it is against the
public policy of India, that is to say, if it is
contrary to:- B.	(1)	The impugned award requires to be set aside
mainly on the grounds:- For the reasons stated above, the impugned award directing the
appellant to refund US $ 3,04,970.20 and Rs.15,75,559/- with interest
which were deducted for the breach of contract as per the agreement
requires to be set aside and is hereby set aside. The appeal is allowed
accordingly. There shall be no order as to costs.