M/s Nkas Services Private Limited. --- --- Petitioner
 Versus 1. The State of Jharkhand 2. The Commissioner of State Taxes, Ranchi. 3. Deputy Commissioner of State Taxes, Godda. -- --- Respondents --- CORAM: The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh
 The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Anubha Rawat Choudhary
 Through Video Conferencing --- 2. The Show-cause notice under Section 74 of the JGST Act, 2017
 dated 7th June 2021 for the tax period July 2020 - September 2020
 (Annexure-1) issued by the Deputy Commissioner of State Taxes (respondent
 no.3) has been challenged by the petitioner along with the consequential
 challenge to summary of show-cause notice in FORM DRC-01 dated 07th
 June 2021 (Annexure-2) issued in exercise of power under Rule 142(1)(a) of
 the Jharkhand Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017. 3. On behalf of the petitioner the following grounds have been
 urged to assail the show-cause notice :- 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner Mr. Kartik Kurmy has, in
 support of the grounds of challenge, made the following submissions. 5. That the impugned show-cause notice is vague and does not
 disclose the offence and contraventions as it is a mere mechanical
 reproduction of the provisions of Section 74 without striking of the irrelevant
 portions. It is thus incapable of any reply and does not fulfill the ingredients
 of a notice in the eyes of law. Petitioner would be denied opportunity to
 properly defend itself. It is, therefore, in violation of principles of natural
 justice. The essential requirements of proper notice is that it should 2 specifically state charges which the noticee has to reply. In this regard reliance
is placed on the decision of the Apex Court rendered in the case of Oryx
Fisheries P. Ltd. Vs. Union of India reported in (2010) 13 SCC 427 (Para 24
to 27). 6. In support of the challenge to the summary to show-cause notice
contained in Form DRC-01, it is submitted that what is not alleged in the
show-cause notice under Section 74 cannot be part of such summary of show-
cause notice. As per Section 73(1)/74(1) the requirement is of 'notice' and not
'knowledge'. Section 75(7) of the Act contemplates that no demand shall be
confirmed on the grounds other than the grounds specified in the notice.
Petitioner relies upon the decision of the Apex Court rendered in the case of CCE Vs. Shital International reported in (2011) 1 SCC 109 (Para-19). It is
submitted that the expression used in Section 73/74 requires proper
application of mind by the proper officer. The expression 'appears to the
proper officer' has not to be a casual act but should show full application of
mind by the 'proper officer'. Reliance is placed upon the decision of the Apex
Court rendered in the case of Dilip N. Shroff Vs. CIT reported in (2007) 6
SCC 329 (Para-86). It is further submitted that the CBEC Master Circular
No.1053/2/2017-CX dated 10.03.2017 issued in exercise of powers under Section 37B of the Central Excise Act, 1944/ Section 83 of the erstwhile Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 detailing guidelines for the
authorities/field formation under the Central Excise Act, 1944 / Chapter V of
the Finance Act, 1994 as to how a show-cause notice under Section 11A of the
Act of 1944 and the Act of 1994 should be issued would apply to issuance of
show cause notice under Section 73/74 of the JGST Act / CGST Act as the
said provisions are pari materia. Learned counsel for the petitioner has further
urged that the impugned SCN does not contain any foundational facts, such as
allegations of fraud or willful misstatement or suppression of facts to evade
tax which are sine qua non for assumption of jurisdiction to exercise the
power under Section 74 of the Act. Therefore, the impugned show-cause
notice lacking in jurisdictional fact is unsustainable in law. He relies upon the
decisions of the Apex Court rendered in the cases of Larsen & Toubro Ltd.
Vs. CCE reported in ( 2007) 9 SCC 617 (para 14 and 18) and Y. Narayan
Chetty Vs. Income Tax Officer reported in (1959) 35 ITR 388 (SC) Page 392. Lastly learned counsel for the petitioner submits that as per the scheme
of the Act, self assessment is the rule and tax assessed by the registered person 3 in the self assessed return is directly enforceable under Section 75(12) and
under Section 79 of the Act. Under the scheme of the Act, the self assessment
can be interfered only in the manner provided under Section 61 which
contemplates scrutiny of the returns. It further contemplates service of notice
in Form GST ASMT-10 so that discrepancy, if any, pointed out in the return
can be rectified by the assessee. Only if he fails to do so and the ingredients of
either Section 73 or Section 74 are made out, the proceeding under either of
the Sections can be initiated as the foundational facts do suggest. In the
instant case no GST ASMT-10 Form was ever served on the petitioner.
Contention of the respondents made through the counter affidavit to the
contrary have been denied by way of para-11(ii) and (vi) of the rejoinder
affidavit. No proof of such service of GST ASMT-10 has been enclosed to the
counter affidavit. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that
alternative remedy is not a bar to invoke writ jurisdiction under Article
226/227 of the Constitution of India, if the party is complaining of breach of
fundamental rights or breach of mandatory provisions under the Act or
violation of principles of natural justice. It is submitted that the impugned
show-cause notice being vague and not disclosing the offences/contravention
denies the petitioner of any opportunity to properly defend itself and is
therefore clearly in violation of principles of natural justice. Reliance is
placed upon the decision of Oryx Fisheries P. Ltd. (supra) and also on the
decision of CIT Vs. Chhabil Dass Agarwal reported in (2014) 1 SCC 603
para 15. It is submitted that the period of dispute under the impugned show-
cause notice is between July 2020 to September 2020. During the said period
the petitioner regularly filed their monthly returns of outward supplies in
Form GSTR-1 under Section 38 read with Rule 59, monthly return of self-
assessment in form GSTR-3B under Section 39 read with Section 59 and Rule
61(5). Annual return/reconciliation statement was also filed in form GSTR-
9/GSTR-9C under Section 44 read with Rule 80. Petitioner discharged
payment of tax on its outward supplies in accordance with Section 49 of the
Act. It is submitted that the proceedings in the instant case were initiated
straight away under Section 74 of the Act by serving the impugned show-
cause notice on 07.06.2021 along with the summary of show cause notice in
DRC-01 on the same date without service of Form GST ASMT-10. Despite
follow up by the petitioner with the office of the respondent no.3 through mail 4 letter dated 29.06.2021, no response was made. Based on these contentions
learned counsel for the petitioner has sought quashing of the impugned show-
cause notice issued under Section 74 of the Act being in violation of
principles of natural justice and lacking in jurisdictional facts to initiate a
proceeding under Section 74 of the Act on the allegations that the petitioner
has wrongfully availed the input tax credit by reason of fraud or any willful
misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax or not paid or short paid or
erroneously got refund of any tax. It is submitted that if the proceedings are
allowed to continue on the basis of such an infirm show-cause notice, it would
lead to an anomalous results as the adjudication order passed finally would be
without any authority of law and lacking in jurisdiction. It would also be in
violation of principles of natural justice. Therefore, the impugned show-cause
notice and the summary to show-cause notice dated 7th June 2021 be quashed.
It is submitted that the respondents may be directed to first serve the notice in
GST ASMT-10 before proceeding against the petitioner in accordance with
law. 8. Learned counsel for the respondents has objected to the prayer
and submissions made by the petitioner. It is submitted that writ jurisdiction is
not to be ordinarily invoked in matters concerning imposition of tax. He has
placed reliance on the case of CIT Vs. Chhabil Dass Agarwal reported in
(2014) 1 SCC 603 para 11 and 16 as also in the case of United Bank of India
Vs. Satyawati Tandon reported in (2010) 8 SCC 110 para-43 to 45. It is
submitted that the petitioner has an efficacious alternative remedy of appeal
after the proceedings are concluded and the order in original is passed.
Learned counsel for the respondents has also reiterated the well recognized
exceptions to the invocation of writ jurisdiction in the presence of an
alternative remedy. It is further submitted that a notice ought not to be struck
down, even if strictly not in the format, but if it contains in substance of the
matter which a notice must contain. He has referred to the case of Bihar
Plastic Industries Ltd. Vs. State of Bihar & Ors. reported in (2000) 117 STC
346 para-17. Learned counsel for the respondents has emphatically opposed
the contention of the petitioner that service of GST ASMT-10 is a pre-
condition for issuance of notice under Section 73 / 74 of the Act. The word
'may' has been used in Section 61 . The language of Section 73 / 74 also does
not suggest that a preliminary determination is to be done prior to issuance of
notice. He submitted that in case there is a genuine error in striking out a 5 particular item, the same would not lead to a conclusion that a notice itself is
to be quashed. On the question of reliance of the petitioner upon the Master
Circular dated 10th March 2017 issued by the CBEC, it is submitted that it
only provides a guideline and cannot be said to have a binding force in law.
Lastly it has been submitted on the part of the State that in case this Court
feels inclined to interfere in the impugned show-cause notice, liberty may be
granted to the respondents to proceed afresh in accordance with law from the
same stage of the proceedings. 9. Learned counsel for the petitioner in reply submits that the
show-cause notice was issued well within the statutory period of limitation. 10. We have considered the submissions of learned counsel for the
parties and taken note of the grounds urged in the factual canvass of the case
pleaded. 11. The impugned notice at Annexure-1 issued under Section 74 of
the JGST Act 2017 is quoted hereunder :- 13. A bare perusal of the provision indicates that in a case where it
appears to a proper officer that any tax has not been paid or short paid or
erroneously refunded or where input tax credit has been wrongly availed or
utilized by reason of fraud or any willful misstatement or suppression of facts
to evade tax, he shall serve notice on the person chargeable with tax, which
has not been paid or has been short paid or to whom refund has been
erroneously made or who has wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit
requiring him to show cause as to why he should not pay the amount specified 7 in the notice along with the interest payable thereupon under Section 50 and a
penalty equivalent to the tax specified in the notice. In contradistinction to the
provision under Section 73 of the Act under the same Chapter-XIV relating to
'Demands and Recovery', the ingredients of Section 74 of the Act require
either of the following ingredients to be satisfied for proceeding thereunder
i.e. that the tax in question has not been paid or short paid or erroneously
refunded or the ITC has been wrongly availed or utilized by reason of fraud or
any willful misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax. 14. A bare perusal of the impugned show-case notice creates a clear
impression that it is a notice issued in a format without even striking out any
irrelevant portions and without stating the contraventions committed by the
petitioner i.e. whether its actuated by reason of fraud or any willful
misstatement or suppression of facts in order to evade tax. Needless to say
that the proceedings under Section 74 have a serious connotation as they
allege punitive consequences on account of fraud or any willful misstatement
or suppression of facts employed by the person chargeable with tax. In
absence of clear charges which the person so alleged is required to answer, the
noticee is bound to be denied proper opportunity to defend itself. This would
entail violation of principles of natural justice which is a well-recognized
exception for invocation of writ jurisdiction despite availability of alternative
remedy. In this regard, it is profitable to quote the opinion of the Apex Court
in the case of Oryx Fisheries P. Ltd. (supra) at para 24 to 27 wherein the
opinion of the Constitution Bench of the Apex Court in the case of Khem
Chand versus Union of India [AIR 1958 SC 300] has been relied upon as
well : or "a reasonable opportunity of defence" have come up for
 consideration before this Court in the context of several statutes. A
 Constitution Bench of this Court in Khem Chand v. Union of India , of
 course in the context of service jurisprudence, reiterated certain
 principles which are applicable in the present case also. 26. S.R. Das, C.J. speaking for the unanimous Constitution Bench in
 Khem Chand held that the concept of "reasonable opportunity" 27. It is no doubt true that at the stage of show cause, the person
 proceeded against must be told the charges against him so that he can
 take his defence and prove his innocence. It is obvious that at that
 stage the authority issuing the charge-sheet, cannot, instead of telling
 him the charges, confront him with definite conclusions of his alleged
 guilt. If that is done, as has been done in this instant case, the entire
 proceeding initiated by the show-cause notice gets vitiated by
 unfairness and bias and the subsequent proceedings become an idle
 ceremony." 15. The Apex Court has held that the concept of reasonable
opportunity includes various safeguards and one of them is to afford
opportunity to the person to deny his guilt and establish his innocence, which
he can only do if he is told what the charges leveled against him are and the
allegations on which such charges are based. 16. It is also true that acts of fraud or suppression are to be
specifically pleaded so that it is clear and explicit to the noticee to reply
thereto effectively [See Larsen & Toubro Ltd. Vs. CCE , (2007) 9 SCC 617
(para 14)]. Further in the case of CCE Vs. Brindavan Beverages (P) Ltd. reported in (2007) 5 SCC 388 relied upon by the petitioner, the Apex Court at
para-14 of the judgment has held that if the allegations in the show-cause
notice are not specific and are on the contrary, vague, lack details and/or
unintelligible i.e. its sufficient to hold that the noticee was not given proper
opportunity to meet the allegations indicated in the show-cause notice. We do
not agree with the contention of the respondent that the notice ought not to be
struck down if in substance it contains the matters which a notice must
contain. In order to proceed under the provisions of Section 74 of the Act, the
specific ingredients enumerated thereunder have to be clearly asserted in the
notice so that the noticee has an opportunity to explain and defend himself. 17. As observed herein above, the impugned notice completely lacks
in fulfilling the ingredients of a proper show-cause notice under Section 74 of
the Act. Proceedings under Section 74 of the Act have to be preceded by a
proper show-cause notice. A summary of show-cause notice as issued in Form
GST DRC-01 in terms of Rule 142(1) of the JGST Rules, 2017 (Annexure-2
impugned herein) cannot substitute the requirement of a proper show-cause
notice. This court, however, is not inclined to be drawn into the issue whether
the requirement of issuance of Form GST ASMT-10 is a condition precedent
for invocation of Section 73 or 74 of the JGST Act for the purposes of 9 deciding the instant case. This Court finds that upon perusal of Annexure-2
 which is the statutory form GST DRC-01 issued to the petitioner, although it
 has been mentioned that there is mismatch between GSTR-3B and 2A, but
 that is not sufficient as the foundational allegation for issuance of notice under Section 74 is totally missing and the notice continues to be vague. 18. Since we are of the considered view that the impugned show-
 cause notice as contained in Annexure-1 does not fulfill the ingredients of a
 proper show-cause notice and thus amounts to violation of principles of
 natural justice, the challenge is entertainable in exercise of writ jurisdiction of
 this Court. Accordingly, the impugned notice at Annexure-1 and the summary
 of show-cause notice at Annexure-2 in Form GST DRC-01 are quashed.
 However, since this Court has not gone into the merits of the challenge,
 respondents are at liberty to initiate fresh proceedings from the same stage in
 accordance with law within a period of four weeks from today. 19. This writ petition is allowed in the manner and to the extent
 indicated herein above. (Aparesh Kumar Singh, J.)

 (Anubha Rawat Choudhary, J.)
Shamim/