HCL Technologies — Fake job offer & offer letter and not refund my ammount N Nikee Kashyap Mar 30, 2022 Mark as Resolved Hi I got a fake job interview letter. with the demand for Rs. 10500 as a security and refundable . its demand two time pay this money .which is pasted as below: kindly take a strict action on it as soon as possible. and the letter has come through email sponsored by hcl. so I request to take action against this issue and please help me getting back my money from them. HCL Technologies Limited Add # No-137, Ground Floor Vayu Block, 'B' Wing, Salarpuria GR Tech Park Whitefield, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560 066 (India) Document No. HCL[protected] SUB: HCL Technologies Limited - HCL First Careers - Training & Joining Program Dear Candidate, Congratulations! Your CV has been short-listed in our annual direct campus online interview program (HCL First Careers) in HCL Technologies Ltd. The Company required urgent staff for Administration, HR and IT Department. Your online process will be held, 22nd & 23rd of Mar 2022 from 9.30 A.M to 5.30 P.M. Appointment locations: Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Madurai, Noida, Nagpur, Pune & Vijayawada... HCL Online Recruitment Drive 2022 (A) Online Interview (B) HCL First Careers Training & Joining Program HCL Technologies First Careers Program: HCL First Careers is a 360-degree assured job training program that is aimed at new college graduates who are looking for the right first step for their global career in technology and IT Services. The program trains you with the practical skills needed to be successful in your first job. In the past few years, over 18000 candidates across the country have undertaken HCL Training & Hiring Programs and joined HCL post their successful completion of the program. First six months your online Training period, Company provide your (C.T.C) Salary up to Rs. 15k/Month. Students successfully complete the training program by online are employed on HCL Technologies Payroll without any Interview. Completion of the training program company offered the best salary (CTC) to all selected candidates for different posts – Starting Salary of INR 2.9 to 6.3 Lakhs per annum. Note: Appointment Letter allots after clear the online interview. If in case you are not clear the interview, then you can Join directly HCL First Careers Program, without any training fee. Payment Process: You have to deposit as an initial per program amount in favor of Company Name to collect your payment department for INR 5000 + 250 INR (G.S.T.) INR 5250/- (Five Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Rupees) in HCL Technologies Limited. Just to prove that you will be attending the both Programs. Refund Condition: You are selected or not in both of cases amount is refundable without G.S.T. HCL Technologies Account Details: Cash | Check & D.D is not Accepted. Beneficiary Name HCL Technologies Limited ccount Number[protected] IFSC Code CNRB0004786 Bank Name Canara Bank Branch Bangalore, Karnataka Payment Mode Online/UPI/Net-Banking Note: After deposit the payment fill the application form ASAP. Because after complete your application form company allot your offer letter & login details. The Last date to apply in the Application Form is 22nd of Mar 2022. To register Application Form kindly click on the link (Application-Link) HRD - Manager | Aditya Ramesh Contact Number | +[protected] Again he is demand for rs 27000 plus gst 4860 . please help to refund my whole money: Congratulations! With reference to your CV has been short-listed in our annual direct campus online joining program (HCL First Careers) in HCL Technologies Ltd. Your online joining process will be held, 24th of Mar 2022 from 5.30 P.M to 6.30 P.M. Appointment locations: Plot No 6 & 8, Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park, MIDC Phase 1, Hinjawadi, Pune – 411057 (India) Selection Program: HCL First Careers Training & Joining Program HCL Technologies First Careers Program: HCL First Careers is a 360-degree assured job training program that is aimed at new college graduates who are looking for the right first step for their global career in technology and IT Services. The program trains you with the practical skills needed to be successful in your first job. In the past few years, over 18000 candidates across the country have undertaken HCL Training & Hiring Programs and joined HCL post their successful completion of the program. First Six months your online Training period, Company provide your (C.T.C) Salary up to Rs. 15k / Month. Students successfully complete the training program by online are employed on HCL Technologies Payroll without any Interview. Completion of the training program company offered the best salary (CTC) to all selected candidates for different posts – Starting Salary of INR 2.9 to 6.3 Lakhs per annum. Note: Company allots your Appointment Letter after clear the online interview rounds. If in case you are not clear the interview rounds, then you can Join directly HCL First Careers Program, without any training fee (Program Fee Rs. 1.5 Lakh + Applicable Taxes). Payment Process: You have to deposit as G.S.T amount in favor of Company Name to collect your payment department for INR 27000 (Twenty Seven Thousand Rupees Only) 18% GST in HCL Technologies. After the joining companies provide your employee id in your joining letter then you claim your G.S.T Amount for refund. HCL Technologies Account Details: Cash | Check & D.D is not Accepted in HCL Technologies Limited. Beneficiary Name HCL Technologies Limited Account Number[protected] IFSC Code CNRB0004786 Bank Name Canara Bank Branch Bangalore, Karnataka Payment Mode Online/UPI/Net-Banking Note: After complete the payment process company allot your joining letter according to your preferred joining location. Required Documents By Company HRD at the time joining. 1. Scan-copies of qualification documents. 2. Scan-copies of payment of G.S.T 3. Scan-copies of address proof 4. Scan-copies of id proof 5. Scan-one passport size photographs. Any queries contact, For HCL Technologies Limited HRD - Manager | Aditya Ramesh Contact Number | +[protected] Email Id : [protected]@hclcampus.com Website : https://hclfirstcareers.com Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (7)