SANJIV KHANNA, J. This judgment decides the reference to three Judges made

 vide order dated 28th February, 2019 in Civil Appeal No. 2402 of

 2019 titled Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading

 Corporation,1 as it doubts the legal ratio expressed in Himangni

 Enterprises v. Kamaljeet Singh Ahluwalia2 that landlord-tenant

 disputes governed by the provisions of the Transfer of Property Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by SATISH KUMAR YADAV Date: 2020.12.14 19:38:59 IST Reason: 1 2019 SCC OnLine SC 358
 2 (2017) 10 SCC 706 1 Act, 1882, are not arbitrable as this would be contrary to public

 policy. 2. A deeper consideration of the order of reference reveals that the

 issues required to be answered relate to two aspects that are

 distinct and yet interconnected, namely: The second aspect also relates to the scope and ambit of

 jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage when an objection of

 non-arbitrability is raised to an application under Section 8 or 11

 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short, the

 ‘ Arbitration Act ’). 3. We are not reproducing and examining the factual matrix, as we

 are only answering the legal issues raised. However, we would

 refer, in brief, to the legal reasoning and the ratio in Himangni 2 Enterprises and the counter view expressed in the order of

 reference in Vidya Drolia. 4. Himangni Enterprises upheld the decision of the High Court and

 the District Court rejecting the application filed by the defendant-

 tenant under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act in a civil suit seeking

 its eviction from a shop in a commercial complex in New Delhi. The

 suit was also for the recovery of arrears of rent and permanent

 injunction. The tenancy in question was not protected under the

 rent control legislation and the rights and obligations were

 governed by the Transfer of Property Act . Two Judges of this

 Court held that the issue of non-arbitrability is no longer res integra

 as it stood answered by decisions in Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. v.

 Navrang Studios3 and Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. v. SBI Home

 Finance Ltd.4 In Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. , wherein an application

 under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 was dismissed as the

 tenancy was protected under the Bombay Rents, Hotel and

 Lodging Houses Rates Control Act, 1947 , it was observed that on

 broader consideration of public policy, the arbitrator lacked

 jurisdiction to decide the question whether the licensee-landlord

 was entitled to seek possession. The dispute could be exclusively

3 (1981) 1 SCC 523
4 (2011) 5 SCC 532: (2011) 2 SCC (Civ) 781 3 decided by the Court of Small Causes, which alone had

 jurisdiction. In Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc., it was held that in

 eviction or tenancy matters governed by special statutes and

 where the tenant enjoys statutory protection, only the specified

 court has been conferred jurisdiction. Himangni Enterprises

 relying on the said ratios holds that though the Delhi Rent Act is

 not applicable, it does not follow that the Arbitration Act would be

 applicable so as to confer jurisdiction on the arbitrator. Even in

 cases of tenancies governed by the Transfer of Property Act , the

 dispute would be triable by the civil court and not by the arbitrator.

 The exemption from the applicability of the Rent Act could be

 withdrawn and thereupon the rights would be governed by the rent

 control legislation. 5. In Vidya Drolia, another division bench referring to Section 11 (6-

 A) has observed that the referral stage requirement is to only

 examine ‘existence of an arbitration agreement’ and not validity of

 the arbitration agreement. 246th Report of the Law Commission of

 India had suggested twin examination whether the agreement

 ‘exists’ or is ‘null and void’, albeit the Section 11 (6-A), as enacted,

 requires ‘existence of an arbitration agreement’, and the 4 prerequisite that the arbitration agreement should not be ‘null and

 void’ was deliberately omitted. The wording of Section 11 (6-A) was

 contrasted with Section 16(1) to draw distinction between ‘validity

 of an arbitration agreement’ and ‘existence of an arbitration

 agreement’. Reference was made to observations of Kurian

 Joseph, J. in Duro Felguera, S.A v. Gangavaram Port Limited,5 to the effect that the scope of Section 11 (6-A) is limited, only to see

 whether an arbitration agreement exists – nothing more, nothing

 less. The legislative policy and purpose are to essentially minimize

 judicial intervention at the appointment stage. Referring to Sections

 111 , 114 and 114A of the Transfer of Property Act, it is observed

 that there is nothing in this Act and law to show that a dispute

 relating to the determination of lease, arrears of rent etc. cannot be

 decided by an arbitrator. The grounds predicated on public policy

 could be raised before the arbitrator as they could be raised before

 the court. The arbitrator could well abide by the provisions of Sections 114 and 114A , and apply the public policy considerations

 for the protection of tenants as a class. Referring to Booz Allen &

 Hamilton Inc., it was observed that the right in rem is a right

 exercisable against the world at large and is not amenable to

5 (2017) 9 SCC 729 5 arbitration, whereas in case of rights in personam an interest is

 protected against a specific individual, and is referable to

 arbitration. Further, subordinate rights in personam arising from

 rights in rem have always been considered to be arbitrable.

 Decision in Natraj Studios (P) Ltd. was distinguishable, as the

 rent control legislation being applicable, the tenancy disputes were

 to be exclusively decided by the small cause court in Bombay. The

 legislation had provided that no other court would have jurisdiction

 to entertain any suit, proceedings or deal with such claim or

 questions. The exception in the form of non-arbitrable landlord-

 tenant disputes, as per Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc., was confined

 only to those cases/matters governed by: (i) special statues, (ii)

 where the tenant enjoys statutory protection and (iii) where only

 specific courts are conferred jurisdiction to decide disputes. Transfer of Property Act does not negate arbitrability. In Olympus

 Superstructures Pvt. Ltd. v. Meena Vijay Khetan and Others,6 it

 was held that there is no prohibition in the Specific Relief Act, 1963 for referring disputes relating to specific performance of contracts

 to arbitration. Equally, the discretion to refuse or grant specific

 performance would not militate against arbitrability. Reference was

6 (1999) 5 SCC 651 6 made to Vimal Kishor Shah and Others v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah

 and Other,7 which had referred to Dhulabhai Etc. v. State of

 Madhya Pradesh and Another,8 in the context of whether the

 disputes under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 were arbitrable. The

 disputes under the Trusts Act were held to be non-arbitrable by

 necessary implication, as the Trusts Act had conferred specific

 powers on the principal judge of the civil court, which powers an

 arbitrator could not exercise. The judgment in Vimal Kishor Shah

 was followed by another Division Bench in Emaar MGF Land

 Limited v. Aftab Singh,9 a case relating to the Consumer

 Protection Act, 1986 . Reasoning that the exemption from rent

 control legislation can be withdrawn and thereupon Arbitration Act would not apply, it was observed, was not a valid justification and

 ground to hold that the subject matter was not arbitrable. 6. Learned counsel for the parties have primarily relied upon the

 reasoning given in Himangni Enterprises and Vidya Drolia and

 have referred to other case law which we would subsequently

 examine. To avoid prolixity and repetition, we are not reproducing

 the respective contentions and arguments, as the same would be

7 (2016) 8 SCC 788
8 (1968) 3 SCR 662
9 (2019) 12 SCC 751 7 dealt with and appreciated during the course of our reasoning. However, we acknowledge that the oral submissions and

 compilations have been of immense help. Similarly, scholarly

 writings in books and articles expressing diverse views on non-

 arbitrability and Who Decides Non-arbitrability have facilitated us

 unclog the legal and jurisprudential nuances and contradictions to

 try and resolve the issues in the context of domestic law of

 arbitration in India. 7. At the outset we begin with the caveat that this judgment does not

 examine and interpret the transnational provisions of arbitration in Part II of the Arbitration Act . Non-Arbitrability 8. Non-arbitrability is basic for arbitration as it relates to the very

 jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal. An arbitral tribunal may lack

 jurisdiction for several reasons. Non-arbitrability has multiple

 meanings. Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. refers to three facets of

 non-arbitrability, namely: - Competence in Transnational Perspective’,10 in the context of

 transnational commercial transactions, has divided facets relating

 to non-arbitrability into seven categories: 9. Validity of the legal ratio in Himangni Enterprises cannot be

 decided without examining when a subject matter or dispute is

 non-arbitrable. Understanding of the different facets of non-

 arbitrability is important as it would help us appreciate the

 consequences. This would assist in deciding whether the court or

 the arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to decide the particular facet

 of non-arbitrability. The jurisdiction could well depend on the nature

 and type of the non-arbitrability alleged. The order of reference in

 Vidya Drolia draws distinction for the purpose of exercise of

 jurisdiction between non-arbitrability on account of existence and

 non-arbitrability on account of the validity of an arbitration

 agreement. 10 10. Arbitration is a private dispute resolution mechanism whereby two

 or more parties agree to resolve their current or future disputes by

 an arbitral tribunal, as an alternative to adjudication by the courts

 or a public forum established by law. Parties by mutual agreement

 forgo their right in law to have their disputes adjudicated in the

 courts/public forum. Arbitration agreement gives contractual

 authority to the arbitral tribunal to adjudicate the disputes and bind

 the parties. The expression ‘arbitration agreement’ has been

 defined in clause (d) of sub-section (2) to mean an agreement as

 defined in Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. Section 7 of the

 Arbitration Act reads: 11. The term ‘agreement’ is not defined in the Arbitration Act , albeit it is

 defined in Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (for short,

 the ‘ Contract Act ’),11 as contracts made by free consent of parties

 competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful

 object, and are not thereby expressly declared to be void. Section

 10 of the Contract Act also stipulates that aforesaid requirements

 shall not affect any law in force in India (and not expressly

 repealed) by which a contract is required to be made in writing, in

 presence of witnesses or any law relating to registration of

 documents. Thus, an arbitration agreement should satisfy the

 mandate of Section 10 of the Contract Act, in addition to satisfying

11 10. What agreements are contracts. — All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free
consent of parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are
not hereby expressly declared to be void. Nothing herein contained shall affect any law in force in
India, and not hereby expressly repealed, by which any contract is required to be made in writing or in
the presence of witnesses, or any law relating to the registration of documents. 12 other requirements stipulated in the Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. Sections 12 to 18 of the Contract Act state when a person can be

said to be of a sound mind for the purpose of contracting and

define the expressions ‘consent’, ‘free consent’, ‘coercion’, ‘undue

influence’, ‘fraud’ and ‘misrepresentation’. Sections 19 to 23 relate

to voidability of agreements, the power to set aside contracts

induced by undue influence, when both the parties are under

mistake as to a matter of fact, effect of a mistake as to the law,

effect of a mistake by one party as to a matter of fact and what

considerations and objects are lawful and unlawful. Sections 24 to 30 relate to void contracts and Sections 26 and 27 therein state

that agreements in restraint of marriage and agreements in

restraint of trade, respectively are void, albeit Explanation (1) to Section 27 saves agreements for not carrying out the business of

which goodwill is sold. Section 28 of the Contract Act states that

agreements in restraint of legal proceedings are void, but

Explanation (1) specifically saves contracts by which two or more

persons agree that any dispute, or one which may arise between

them, in respect of any subject or class of subjects shall be

referred to arbitration. Arbitration agreement must satisfy the

objective mandates of the law of contract to qualify as an 13 agreement. Clauses (g) and (h) of Section 2 of the Contract Act

 state that an agreement not enforceable in law is void and an

 agreement enforceable in law is a contract. As a sequitur, it follows

 that an arbitration agreement that is not enforceable in law is void

 and not legally valid. 12. Sub-section (1) to Section 7 ordains that the arbitration agreement

 should be in respect of disputes arising from a defined legal

 relationship, whether contractual or not. The expression ‘legal

 relationship’, again not defined in the Arbitration Act , means a

 relationship which gives rise to legal obligations and duties and,

 therefore, confers a right. These rights may be contractual or even

 non-contractual.12 Non-contractual disputes would require a

 separate or submission arbitration agreement based on the cause

 of action arising in tort, restitution, breach of statutory duty or some

 other non-contractual cause of action.13

12 Legal relationship will be normally followed by certain immediate or remote consequences in the
form of action or non-action by the judicial and executive agents of the society as distinct from purely
private affairs or other events which have nothing to do with law. Legal relationship exists in every
situation that is or may be procedurally asserted for a declaration or denial of a right or for imposition
of a sanction or any other purpose within the scope of adjudicative action. In actual practice, objection
regarding defined legal relationship is seldom raised and tested.

13 Russell on Arbitration, 24th Edition # 2-004 14 13. Sub-section (2) to Section 7 is of some importance as it states that

 an arbitration clause may be in the form of a separate agreement

 or form a part of the underlying or another contract. Clause (3) of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act states that the arbitration

 agreement shall be in writing, that is, the agreement should be

 evidenced in writing. By clause (4) the term ‘arbitration agreement

 in writing’ would include any agreement by exchange of letters,

 telegrams, electronic mails or communications which provide a

 record of the agreement or exchange of statements of claim and

 defence in which one party claims the existence of the agreement

 and the other party does not deny it. Sub-section (5) to Section 7 states that reference in a contract to a document containing an

 arbitration clause would constitute a valid arbitration agreement if

 the contract is in writing and reference is made to the arbitration

 clause that forms a part of the contract. 14. Questions as to the existence of an arbitration agreement also

 arise when a party opposing the reference raises plea of novation

 of contract by entering into a new contract in substitution of the

 original or ‘accord and satisfaction’ by acceptance of modified

 obligations in discharge of the contract by performance or simple 15 termination by express or implied consent. Similar plea of

 discharge can be raised opposing an application for reference on

 the ground that the claim is long barred and dead or there are no

 outstanding disputes as the parties have accepted part

 performance or have absolved the other side from performance,

 fully or partly, on account of frustration or otherwise. The

 contention is that once the original contract stands extinguished,

 abandoned, repudiated or substituted, the arbitration clause in the

 underlying/original contract perishes with it. 15. Arbitration being a matter of contract, the parties are entitled to fix

 boundaries as to confer and limit the jurisdiction and legal authority

 of the arbitrator. An arbitration agreement can be comprehensive

 and broad to include any dispute or could be confined to specific

 disputes. The issue of scope of arbitrator’s jurisdiction invariably

 arises when the disputes that are arbitrable are enumerated or the

 arbitration agreement provides for exclusions as in case of

 ‘excepted matters’. The arbitration agreement may be valid, but

 the arbitral tribunal in view of the will of the parties expressed in

 the arbitration agreement, may not have jurisdiction to adjudicate 16 the dispute. The will of the parties as to the scope of arbitration is a

 subjective act and personal to the parties. 16. Another facet, not highlighted earlier, arises from the dictum in Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya and Another,14 a decision upholding rejection of an application under Section 8 , on

 the ground that there is no provision in the Arbitration Act to

 bifurcate and divide the causes or parties, that is, the subject

 matter of the suit/judicial proceedings, and parties to the arbitration

 agreement. The suit should be in respect of a ‘matter’ which the

 parties have agreed to refer and which comes within the ambit of

 the arbitration agreement. The words ‘a matter’, it was interpreted,

 would indicate that the entire subject matter of the suit should be

 subject to arbitration agreement. Bifurcation of subject matter or

 causes of action in the suit is not permissible and contemplated.

 Similarly, the parties to the suit should be bound by the arbitration

 agreement, as there is no provision in the Arbitration Act to compel

 third persons who have not exercised the option to give up the

 right to have access to courts and be bound by the arbitration

 clause. This would violate party autonomy and consensual nature

14 (2003) 5 SCC 531 17 of arbitration. Bifurcation in such cases would result in a suit

 being divided into two parts, one being decided by the arbitral

 tribunal, and the other by the court or judicial authorities. This

 would defeat the entire purpose and inevitably delay the

 proceedings and increase cost of litigation, cause harassment and

 on occasions give rise to conflicting judgments and orders by two

 different fora. Cause of action in relation to the subject matter

 relates to the scope of the arbitration agreement and whether the

 dispute can be resolved by arbitration. Second mandate relating to

 common parties exposits the inherent limitation of the arbitration

 process which is consensual and mutual, an aspect we would

 subsequently examine. 17. A two Judges’ Bench in Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc., while

 interpreting the dictum in Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd., had drawn a

 distinction between ambit and scope of judicial inquiry while

 deciding an application under Section 8(1) of the Arbitration Act

 which is filed in pending civil suit/judicial proceedings and an

 application for reference of the dispute to arbitration under Section

 11 of the Arbitration Act. In Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. it was

 observed: 18 Section 11 only covers another situation. Where one
 of the parties has refused to act in terms of the
 arbitration agreement, the other party moves the
 Chief Justice under Section 11 of the Act to have an
 arbitrator appointed and the first party objects, it
 would be incongruous to hold that the Chief Justice
 cannot decide the question of his own jurisdiction to
 appoint an arbitrator when in a parallel situation, the
 judicial authority can do so. Obviously, the highest
 judicial authority has to decide that question and his
 competence to decide cannot be questioned. If it is
 held that the Chief Justice has no right or duty to
 decide the question or cannot decide the question, it
 will lead to an anomalous situation in that a judicial
 authority under Section 8 can decide, but not a Chief
 Justice under Section 11 , though the nature of the
 objection is the same and the consequence of
 accepting the objection in one case and rejecting it in
 the other, is also the same, namely, sending the
 parties to arbitration. The interpretation of Section 11 that we have adopted would not give room for such
 an anomaly.”

 We are clearly bound by the dictum of the Constitutional

Bench judgment in Patel Engineering Ltd. that the scope and

ambit of court’s jurisdiction under Section 8 or 11 of the Arbitration

Act is similar. An application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act

need not set out in detail the disputes or the claims and may briefly

refer to the subject matter or broad contours of the dispute.

However, where judicial proceedings are initiated and pending,

specific details of the claims and disputes are normally pleaded

and, therefore, the court or the judicial authority has the advantage 20 of these details. There is a difference between a non-arbitrable

 claim and non-arbitrable subject matter. Former may arise on

 account of scope of the arbitration agreement and also when the

 claim is not capable of being resolved through arbitration.

 Generally non-arbitrability of the subject matter would relate to

 non-arbitrability in law. Further, the decision in Sukanya Holdings

 (P) Ltd. has to be read along with subsequent judgment of this

 Court in Chloro Controls India Private Limited v. Severn Trent

 Water Purification Inc. and Others.16 The effect of amendment

 by Act 3 of 2016 with retrospective effect from 20.10.2015 on Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act with the stipulation that the

 amendments apply notwithstanding any earlier judgment has been

 examined by us under the heading Who Decides Non-arbitrability. 18. Sub-section (3) to Section 2 of the Arbitration Act states: 19. In Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc., elucidating on the question of non- arbitrability of a dispute, it has been observed: matter of the case, whereas actions in rem refer to
 actions determining the title to property and the rights
 of the parties, not merely among themselves but also
 against all persons at any time claiming an interest in
 that property. Correspondingly, a judgment in
 personam refers to a judgment against a person as
 distinguished from a judgment against a thing, right or
 status and a judgment in rem refers to a judgment
 that determines the status or condition of property
 which operates directly on the property itself. (Vide
 Black’s Law Dictionary.) 38. Generally and traditionally all disputes relating to
 rights in personam are considered to be amenable to
 arbitration; and all disputes relating to rights in rem
 are required to be adjudicated by courts and public
 tribunals, being unsuited for private arbitration. This is
 not however a rigid or inflexible rule. Disputes relating
 to subordinate rights in personam arising from rights
 in rem have always been considered to be arbitrable.”

 Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. states that civil or commercial

dispute, whether contractual or non-contractual, which can be

decided by a court, is in principle capable of being adjudicated and

resolved by an arbitral tribunal unless the jurisdiction of the arbitral

tribunal is either expressly or by necessary implication excluded. 23 Legislature is entitled to exclusively reserve certain category of

 proceedings for public forums, be it a court or a forum created or

 empowered by the State to the exclusion of private forum.

 Exclusion of the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal are matters of

 public policy. When public policy mandates and states that a case

 or a dispute is non-arbitrable, the court would not allow an

 application under Section 8 (or even Section 11 as observed

 supra) even if the parties have agreed upon arbitration as the

 mechanism for settlement of such disputes. 20. Exclusion or non-arbitrability when clearly expressed would pose

 no difficulty and should be respected. However, exclusion or non-

 arbitrability of subjects or disputes from the purview of a private

 forum like arbitration by necessary implication requires setting out

 the principles that should be applied. 21. Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. draws a distinction between actions

 in personam, that is, actions which determine the rights and

 interests of parties themselves in the subject matter of the case,

 and actions in rem which refer to actions determining the title of the

 property and the rights of the parties not merely amongst

 themselves but also against all the persons at any time claiming an 24 interest in that property. Rights in personam are considered to be

 amenable to arbitration and disputes regarding rights in rem are

 required to be adjudicated by the courts and public tribunals. The

 latter actions are unsuitable for private arbitration. Disputes

 relating to subordinate rights in personam arising from rights in

 rem are considered to be arbitrable. Paragraph 36 of the judgment

 in Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. refers to certain examples of non-

 arbitrable disputes and reads: 22. Landlord-tenant disputes governed by rent control legislation are

 not actions in rem, yet they are non-arbitrable. In Booz Allen &

 Hamilton Inc. reference was made to Russell on Arbitration (22nd

 Edition) in Para 2.007 at Page 28 wherein the author has observed

 that certain matters in English Law are reserved for the court alone

 and if an arbitral tribunal purports to deal with them the resulting 25 award would be unenforceable. These matters would include

where the type of remedy required is not one which the arbitral

tribunal is empowered to give. Reference was made to Law and

Practice of Commercial Arbitration in England (2nd Ed. 1989) by

Mustill and Boyd which states that certain types of remedies which

the arbitrator can award are limited by consideration of public

policy and as arbitrator is appointed by the parties and not by the

State. Arbitrator cannot impose fine, give imprisonment, commit a

person for contempt or issue a writ of subpoena nor can he make

an award binding on third parties and affect public at large, such as

a judgment in rem. Mustill and Boyd in their 2001 Companion

Volume have observed that axiomatically rights that are valid as

against the whole world, cannot be a subject of private arbitration,

although subordinate rights in personam derived from such rights

may be ruled upon by the arbitrators. Therefore, rights under a

patent license may be arbitrated but the validity of the underlying

patent may not be arbitrable. Similarly, an arbitrator who derives its

power from a private agreement between A and B, plainly has no

jurisdiction to bind a third person by a decision on whether the

patent is valid or not, for no one else has mandated him to make 26 the decision and the decision which attempts to do so would be

 useless. 23. Analysing provisions of Order XXXIV of the Code of Civil

 Procedure , 1908, Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc. holds that this

 Order not only relates to execution of a decree, it provides for

 preliminary and final decrees to satisfy the substantive rights of

 mortgagees with reference to their mortgage security. The

 provisions of Transfer of Property Act read with the Code relating

 to mortgage suits makes it clear that all persons having interest

 either in the mortgage security or in the right of redemption have to

 be joined as parties whether they are parties to the mortgage or

 not. The object of the provisions is to avoid multiplicity of

 suits/proceedings and to enable all the interested persons to raise

 their defences and claims, which are to be taken note of while

 dealing with the claim in the mortgage suit. By passing a

 preliminary decree or final decree, the court adjudicates, adjusts

 and safeguards the interests of not only the mortgager or

 mortgagee but also puisne/mesne mortgagees, persons entitled to

 the equity of redemption, persons having an interest in the

 mortgaged property, auction-purchasers and persons in 27 possession, which an arbitral tribunal cannot do. Therefore, a suit

 for foreclosure or redemption of mortgage property can be dealt

 with by a public forum and not by a private forum. 24. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. in A. Ayyasamy v. A. Paramasivam and

 Others,18 referring to the dictum in Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc.,

 has made two important comments: However, if the jurisdiction of an ordinary civil court is
 excluded by the conferment of exclusive jurisdiction
 on a specified court or tribunal as a matter of public
 policy such a dispute would not then be capable of
 resolution by arbitration.”

18 (2016) 10 SCC 386 28 25. In Vimal Kishor Shah disputes relating to private trusts, trustees,

 and beneficiaries of the trust and the Trusts Act were held to be

 non-arbitrable. The Order of Reference explains why disputes

 under the Trusts Act are non-arbitrable by necessary implication,

 for which reference was made to few sections of the Trusts Act to

 demonstrate how the disputes could not be made the subject

 matter of arbitration. The reasoning is illustrative and elucidating: - 26. In Emaar MGF Land Limited, the Division Bench referred to the

 object and the purpose behind the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 as a law that meets the long-felt necessity of protecting the

 common man as a consumer against wrongs and misdeeds for

 which the remedy under the ordinary law has become illusory as

 the enforcement machinery does not move, or moves ineffectively

 or inefficiently. Thus, to remove helplessness and empower

 consumers against powerful businesses and the might of the

 public bodies, the enactment has constituted consumer forums

 with extensive and wide powers to award, wherever appropriate,

 compensations to the consumers and to impose penalties for non-

 compliance with their orders. The Consumer Protection Act has 30 specific provisions for execution and effective implementation of

 their orders which powers are far greater than the power of the

 ordinary civil court. After referring to the amendments made to Sections 8 and 11 of Arbitration Act by Act No. 3 of 2016, it was

 observed that the amendments cannot be given such expansive

 meaning so as to inundate entire regime of special legislation

 where such disputes are not arbitrable. This amendment was not

 intended to side-line or override the settled law on non-arbitrability.

 Reference was made to an earlier decision in Premier

 Automobiles Ltd. v. Kamlekar Shantaram Wadke of Bombay

 and Others19 wherein examining Section 9 of the Code of Civil

 Procedure in the context of rights and remedies under Industrial

 Disputes Act, 1947 it was observed that the legislature has made

 provisions for the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes

 between unions representing the workmen and the management.

 The authorities constituted under the Act have extensive powers in

 the matter of industrial disputes. Labour Court and Tribunal can lay

 down new industrial policy for industrial peace and order, or

 reinstatement of dismissed workmen, which no civil court can do.

 For this, the provisions of Industrial Disputes Act completely oust

19 (1976) 1 SCC 496 31 the jurisdiction of the civil court for trial of the industrial disputes. The intent of the legislature is to protect the interest of workmen

 and consumers in larger public interest in the form of special rights

 and by constituting a judicial forum with powers that a civil court or

 an arbitrator cannot exercise. Neither the workmen nor consumers

 can waive their right to approach the statutory judicial forums by

 opting for arbitration. 27. In Olympus Superstructures Pvt. Ltd., this Court had held that

 an arbitrator can grant specific performance as there is no

 prohibition in the Specific Relief Act, 1963 . This decision on the

 question of arbitrability has observed, and in our humble opinion

 rightly, as under: 28. In V.H. Patel & Company and Others v. Hirubhai Himabhai

 Patel and Others,20 this Court has held that in deference to the

 arbitration clause covering all matters there was no principle of law

 or provision that bars an arbitrator from deciding whether the

 dissolution of a partnership is just and equitable. 29. Having examined and analysed the judgments, we would coalesce

 and crystalize the legal principles for determining non-arbitrability.

 We begin by drawing principles that draw distinction between

 adjudication of actions in rem and adjudication of actions in

 personam. 30. A judgment is a formal expression of conclusive adjudication of the

 rights and liabilities of the parties. The judgment may operate in

20 (2000) 4 SCC 368 33 two ways, in rem or in personam. Section 41 of the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 on the question of relevancy of judgments in

the context of conclusiveness of a judgment, order or decree

provides: 21 G.C. Cheshire & P.M. North, Private International Law 12th ed. by North & Fawcett (London: 22 Ibid
23 G.C. Cheshire & P.M. North, Private International Law 12th ed. by North & Fawcett (London: The courts established by law on the other hand enjoy jurisdiction

 by default and do not require mutual agreement for conferring

 jurisdiction. The arbitral tribunals not being courts of law or

 established under the auspices of the State cannot act judicially so

 as to affect those who are not bound by the arbitration clause.

 Arbitration is unsuitable when it has erga omnes effect, that is, it

 affects the rights and liabilities of persons who are not bound by

 the arbitration agreement. Equally arbitration as a decentralized

 mode of dispute resolution is unsuitable when the subject matter or

 a dispute in the factual background, requires collective adjudication

 before one court or forum. Certain disputes as a class, or 36 sometimes the dispute in the given facts, can be efficiently

 resolved only through collective litigation proceedings. Contractual

 and consensual nature of arbitration underpins its ambit and

 scope. Authority and power being derived from an agreement

 cannot bind and is non-effective against non-signatories. An

 arbitration agreement between two or more parties would be limpid

 and inexpedient in situations when the subject matter or dispute

 affects the rights and interests of third parties or without presence

 of others, an effective and enforceable award is not possible.

 Prime objective of arbitration to secure just, fair and effective

 resolution of disputes, without unnecessary delay and with least

 expense, is crippled and mutilated when the rights and liabilities of

 persons who have not consented to arbitration are affected or the

 collective resolution of the disputes by including non-parties is

 required. Arbitration agreement as an alternative to public fora

 should not be enforced when it is futile, ineffective, and would be a

 no result exercise.24 32. Sovereign functions of the State being inalienable and non- delegable are non-arbitrable as the State alone has the exclusive

24 Prof. Stavros Brekoulakis – ‘On Arbitrability: Persisting Misconceptions and New Areas of
Concern’ 37 right and duty to perform such functions. 25 For example, it is

 generally accepted that monopoly rights can only be granted by

 the State. Correctness and validity of the State or sovereign

 functions cannot be made a direct subject matter of a private

 adjudicatory process. Sovereign functions for the purpose of Arbitration Act would extend to exercise of executive power in

 different fields including commerce and economic, legislation in all

 forms, taxation, eminent domain and police powers which includes

 maintenance of law and order, internal security, grant of pardon

 etc., as distinguished from commercial activities, economic

 adventures and welfare activities.26 Similarly, decisions and

 adjudicatory functions of the State that have public interest

 element like the legitimacy of marriage, citizenship, winding up of

 companies, grant of patents, etc. are non-arbitrable, unless the

 statute in relation to a regulatory or adjudicatory mechanism either

 expressly or by clear implication permits arbitration. In these

 matters the State enjoys monopoly in dispute resolution. 33. Fourth principle of non-arbitrability is alluded to in the Order of

 Reference, which makes specific reference to Vimal Kishor Shah,

25 Ajar Raib – Defining Contours of the Public Policy Exception – A New Test for Arbitrability
26 Common Cause v. Union of India , ( 1999) 6 SCC 667 and Agricultural Produce Market Committee
v. Ashok Harikuni & Another , (2000) 8 SCC 61. 38 which decision quotes from Dhulabhai, a case which dealt with

 exclusion of jurisdiction of civil courts under Section 9 of the Civil

 Procedure Code. The second condition in Dhulabhai reads as

 under: 27 9 [1859] 6 C.B. (NS) 336 39 necessary implication exclude the common law
 remedy, and the party suing has his election to pursue
 either that or the statutory remedy. The second class
 of cases is, where the statute gives the right to sue
 merely, but provides no particular form of remedy: 28 (2008) 1 SCC 125 41 elements of election, namely, existence of two or
 more remedies; inconsistencies between such
 remedies and a choice of one of them. If anyone of
 the three elements is not there, the doctrine will not
 apply. According to American Jurisprudence, 2d, Vol.
 25, p. 652, if in truth there is only one remedy, then
 the doctrine of election does not apply. In the present
 case, as stated above, the NPA Act is an additional
 remedy to the DRT Act . Together they constitute one
 remedy and, therefore, the doctrine of election does
 not apply. Even according to Snell's Principles of
 Equity (31st Edn., p. 119), the doctrine of election of
 remedies is applicable only when there are two or
 more co-existent remedies available to the litigants at
 the time of election which are repugnant and
 inconsistent. In any event, there is no repugnancy nor
 inconsistency between the two remedies, therefore,
 the doctrine of election has no application.”

 Doctrine of election to select arbitration as a dispute

 resolution mechanism by mutual agreement is available only if the

 law accepts existence of arbitration as an alternative remedy and

 freedom to choose is available. There should not be any

 inconsistency or repugnancy between the provisions of the

 mandatory law and arbitration as an alternative. Conversely and in

 a given case when there is repugnancy and inconsistency, the right

 of choice and election to arbitrate is denied. This requires

 examining the “text of the statute, the legislative history, and

 ‘inherent conflict’ between arbitration and the statute’s underlying

 purpose”29 with reference to the nature and type of special rights

29 Jennifer L. Peresie, Reducing the Presumption of Arbitrability. 42 conferred and power and authority given to the courts or public

 forum to effectuate and enforce these rights and the orders

 passed. When arbitration cannot enforce and apply such rights or

 the award cannot be implemented and enforced in the manner as

 provided and mandated by law, the right of election to choose

 arbitration in preference to the courts or public forum is either

 completely denied or could be curtailed. In essence, it is necessary

 to examine if the statute creates a special right or liability and

 provides for the determination of each right or liability by the

 specified court or the public forum so constituted, and whether the

 remedies beyond the ordinary domain of the civil courts are

 prescribed. When the answer is affirmative, arbitration in the

 absence of special reason is contraindicated. The dispute is non-

 arbitrable. 35. In M.D. Frozen Foods Exports Private Limited and Others v. Hero Fincorp Limited,30 and following this judgment in Indiabulls

 Housing Finance Limited v. Deccan Chronicle Holdings

 Limited and Others,31 it has been held that even prior arbitration

 proceedings are not a bar to proceedings under the NPA Act . The

30 (2017) 16 SCC 741
31 (2018) 14 SCC 783 43 NPA Act sets out an expeditious, procedural methodology enabling

 the financial institutions to take possession and sell secured

 properties for non-payment of the dues. Such powers, it is obvious,

 cannot be exercised through the arbitral proceedings. 36. In Transcore, on the powers of the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT)

 under the DRT Act , it was observed: 37. In Natraj Studios (P) Ltd., a case under the Arbitration Act,1940 , it

 was observed that on broader consideration of public policy the

 disputes were non-arbitrable. In N. Radhakrishnan v. Maestro

 Engineers and Others,33 reliance was placed on the following

 observations in Abdul Kadir Samshuddin Bubere v. Madhav

 Prabharkar Oak and Another:34

 “There is no doubt that when a serious allegation of
 fraud is laid against the party and the party who
 charged with the fraud desires that the matter should
 be tried in the open court it would be sufficient cause
 for the court for the court not to order an arbitration
 agreement to be filed and not to make the reference.”

 N. Radhakrishnan upheld the order rejecting the application

 under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act on the ground that it would

 be in furtherance of justice that the allegations as to fraud and

 manipulation of finances in the partnership firm are tried in the

 court of law which is more competent and has means to decide a

 complicated matter. However, in A. Ayyasamy, notwithstanding

 the allegations of fraud, the civil appeal was allowed, the civil suit

 was stayed and reference to arbitration under Section 8 of the

 Arbitration Act was made. A.K. Sikri J. held that the Arbitration Act does not make any specific provision for excluding any category of
33 (2010) 1 SCC 72
34 AIR 1962 SC 406 46 disputes terming them as non-arbitrable but there are a number of

pronouncements which hold that fraud is one such category where

the dispute would be considered as non-arbitrable. Elucidating on

the exclusion, he observed that pleading of a mere allegation of

fraud by one party is not enough. The allegation of fraud should be

such which makes a virtual case of a criminal offence. On the

question of non-arbitrability when there are allegations of fraud, he

observed: 35 A Second Look at Arbitrability: Approaches to Arbitration in the United States, Switzerland and
Germany by Patrick M. Baron and Stefan Liniger 49 and not free from difficulty as reflected in the strong opinions

 expressed in the judgments. Indeed, under the Arbitration Act,

 1940 , the case law in view of the statutory discretion under sub-

 section (4) to Sections 20 and 34 clearly supports and accepts the

 role and relevance of public policy. Legal position under the Arbitration Act as examined under the heading ‘Who decides non-

 arbitrability’, however, is different. 39. We begin by examining sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (b) to

 Sub-section (2) to Section 34 , which read as under: Explanation 1. ––For the avoidance of any doubt, it is
 clarified that an award is in conflict with the public
 policy of India, only if, –– 50 (i) the making of the award was induced or
 affected by fraud or corruption or was in violation
 of section 75 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental
 policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of
 morality or justice. Explanation 2. ––For the avoidance of doubt, the test
 as to whether there is a contravention with the
 fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a
 review on the merits of the dispute.” Section 34(2)(b) consists of two sub-clauses both accrediting

the court with the power to set aside an award. Under sub-clause (i) an award is liable to be set aside when the subject matter is not

capable of settlement by arbitration under law for the time being in

force. Under sub-clause (ii) an award can be set aside if it is in

conflict with the public policy of India. As per Explanation No. 1, an

award is in conflict with the public policy of India only if it was

induced or affected by fraud, corruption, etc. or it is in

contravention with the fundamental policy of Indian law or is in

conflict with the most basic notions of morality or justice.

Explanation 2 cautions the courts not to review on the merits of the

case while examining the question whether an award is in

contravention with the fundamental policy of law. Therefore,

conflict with the public policy of India and a subject matter of 51 dispute not capable of settlement by arbitration, are two separate

and independent grounds on which the court can set aside the

award. Reference to public policy in Booz Allen & Hamilton Inc.

and in the present matter and non-arbitrability of the subject matter

is completely different and has nothing in common with the public

policy of India referred to in sub-clause (ii) of Section 34(2)(b) of

the Arbitration Act. Public policy in the context of non-arbitrability

refers to public policy as reflected in the enactment, that is,

whether the enactment confers exclusive jurisdiction to the

specified court or the special forum and prohibits recourse to

arbitration. Public policy in the context of sub-clause(ii) to Section

34(2)(b) refers to the public policy of the enactment, defining and

fixing rights and obligations, and application of those rights and

obligations by the arbitrator. Statutes unfailingly have a public

purpose or policy which is the basis and purpose behind the

legislation. Application of mandatory law to the merits of the case

do not imply that the right to arbitrate is taken away. Mandatory law

may require a particular substantive rule to be applied, but this

would not preclude arbitration. Implied non-arbitrability requires

prohibition against waiver of jurisdiction, which happens when a

statute gives special rights or obligations and creates or stipulates 52 an exclusive forum for adjudication and enforcement. An arbitrator,

 like the court, is equally bound by the public policy behind the

 statute while examining the claim on merits. The public policy in

 case of non-arbitrability would relate to conferment of exclusive

 jurisdiction on the court or the special forum set up by law for

 decision making. Non-arbitrability question cannot be answered by

 examining whether the statute has a public policy objective which

 invariably every statue would have. There is a general presumption

 in favour of arbitrability, which is not excluded simply because the

 dispute is permeated by applicability of mandatory law. Violation of

 public policy by the arbitrator could well result in setting aside the

 award on the ground of failure to follow the fundamental policy of

 law in India, but not on the ground that the subject matter of the

 dispute was non-arbitrable. 40. However, the above discussion would not be a complete answer to

 N. Radhakrishnan that if justice demands, then notwithstanding

 the arbitration clause, the dispute would be tried in the open court.

 To accept this reasoning one would have to agree that arbitration is

 a flawed and compromised dispute resolution mechanism that can

 be forgone when public interest or public policy demands the 53 dispute should be tried and decided in the court of law. The public

 policy argument proceeds on the foundation and principle that

 arbitration is inferior to court adjudication as: (i) fact finding process

 in arbitration is not equivalent to judicial fact finding, which is far

 more comprehensive and in-depth; (ii) there is limited or lack of

 reasoning in awards; (iii) arbitrators enjoy and exercise extensive

 and unhindered powers and therefore are prone in making

 arbitrary and despotic decisions; (iv) there is no appeal process in

 arbitration which combined with the (iii) above and limited review of

 an arbitral award in post-award court proceedings, arbitration may

 have devastating consequences for the losing party and

 undermines justice; (v) arbitration proceedings are usually private

 and confidential; (vi) arbitrators are unfit to address issues arising

 out of the economic power disparity or social concerns; 36 (vii)

 business and industry, by adopting and compulsorily applying

 arbitration process, leave the vulnerable and weaker sections with

 little or no meaningful choice but to accept arbitration. A few people

 realize and understand the importance of loss of their right to

 access the court of law or public forum, which are impartial, just

36 (i) to (vi) from Prof. Stavros Brekoulakis – On Arbitrability: Persisting Misconceptions and New
Area of Concern. 54 and fair;37 and (viii) arbitration is expensive and costly in

 comparison to court adjudication.38 41. While it would not be correct to dispel the grounds as mere

 conjectures and baseless, it would be grossly irrational and

 completely wrong to mistrust and treat arbitration as flawed and

 inferior adjudication procedure unfit to deal with the public policy

 aspects of a legislation. Arbitrators, like the courts, are equally

 bound to resolve and decide disputes in accordance with the public

 policy of the law. Possibility of failure to abide by public policy

 consideration in a legislation, which otherwise does not expressly

 or by necessary implication exclude arbitration, cannot form the

 basis to overwrite and nullify the arbitration agreement. This would

 be contrary to and defeat the legislative intent reflected in the

 public policy objective behind the Arbitration Act . Arbitration has

 considerable advantages as it gives freedom to the parties to

 choose an arbitrator of their choice, and it is informal, flexible and

 quick. Simplicity, informality and expedition are hallmarks of

 arbitration. Arbitrators are required to be impartial and

 independent, adhere to natural justice, and follow a fair and just

37 (vii) from the preamble of the text of the bill of 2007 Arbitration Fairness Act as was written by the
sponsor and submitted to the House for consideration
38 Union of India v. Singh Builders Syndicate , (2009) 4 SCC 523. 55 procedure. Arbitrators are normally experts in the subject and

perform their tasks by referring to facts, evidence, and relevant

case law. Complexity is not sufficient to ward off arbitration. In

terms of the mandate of Section 89 of the Civil Procedure Code

and the object and purpose behind the Arbitration Act and the

mandatory language of Sections 8 and 11 , the mutually agreed

arbitration clauses must be enforced. The language of Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act are peremptory in nature. Arbitration

Act has been enacted to promote arbitration as a transparent, fair,

and just alternative to court adjudication. Public policy is to

encourage and strengthen arbitration to resolve and settle

economic, commercial and civil disputes. Amendments from time

to time have addressed the issues and corrected the inadequacies

and flaws in the arbitration procedure. It is for the stakeholders,

including the arbitrators, to assure that the arbitration is as

impartial, just, and fair as court adjudication. It is also the duty of

the courts at the post-award stage to selectively yet effectively

exercise the limited jurisdiction, within the four corners of Section

34(2)(b)(ii) read with Explanation 1 and 2 and check any conflict

with the fundamental policy of the applicable law. We would 56 subsequently refer to the ‘second look’ 39 principle which is

 applicable in three specific situations dealing with arbitrability as

 per the mandate of Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. 42. Recently, the Supreme Court of Canada in TELUS

 Communications Inc. v. Avraham Wellman,40 while conceding

 that arbitration as a method of dispute resolution was met with

 “overt hostility” for a long time on public policy grounds as it ousts

 jurisdiction of courts, observed that the new legislation, the Arbitration Act of 1991, marks a departure as it encourages parties

 to adopt arbitration in commercial and other matters. By putting

 party autonomy on a high pedestal, the Act mandates that the

 parties to a valid arbitration agreement must abide by the

 consensual and agreed mode of dispute resolution. The courts

 must show due respect to arbitration agreements particularly in

 commercial settings by staying the court proceedings, unless the

 legislative language is to the contrary. The principle of party

 autonomy goes hand in hand with the principle of limited court

 intervention, this being the fundamental principle underlying

 modern arbitration law. Party autonomy is weaker in non-

39 Mitsubishi Motors Corp v. Soler Chrysler Plymouth Inc, 473 U.S. 614 S Ct 3346 (1985) (U.S.
Supreme Court, 2 July 1985)
40 (2019) SCC 19 (CanLII) 57 negotiated “take it or leave it” contracts and, therefore, the

 legislature can through statutes shield the weakest and vulnerable

 contracting parties like consumers. This is not so in negotiated

 agreements or even in adhesion contracts having an arbitration

 clause in commercial settings. Virtues of commercial and civil

 arbitration have been recognised and accepted and the courts

 even encourage the use of arbitration. 43. A recent judgment of this Court in Avitel Post Studioz Limited

 and Others v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited 41 has

 examined the law on invocation of ‘fraud exception’ in great detail

 and holds that N. Radhakrishnan as a precedent has no legs to

 stand on. We respectfully concur with the said view and also the

 observations made in paragraph 14 of the judgment in Avitel Post

 Studioz Limited, which quotes observations in Rashid Raza v.

 Sadaf Akhthar42 : 44. In Deccan Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. Regency Mahavir

 Properties43 , legal proceedings for cancellation of documents

43 Civil Appeal No. 5147 of 2016, decided on 19.08.2020 59 under Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 were held to be

 actions in personam and not actions in rem. Significantly, the

 judgment refers to the definition of action in rem by R.H. Graveson

 (Conflict of Laws 98, 7th ed. 1974), which reads as under: fold test for determining when the subject matter of a dispute in an

 arbitration agreement is not arbitrable: These tests are not watertight compartments; they dovetail

 and overlap, albeit when applied holistically and pragmatically will 60 help and assist in determining and ascertaining with great degree

 of certainty when as per law in India, a dispute or subject matter is

 non-arbitrable. Only when the answer is affirmative that the

 subject matter of the dispute would be non-arbitrable. However, the aforesaid principles have to be applied with

 care and caution as observed in Olympus Superstructures Pvt.

 Ltd.: Such grants confer monopoly rights. They are non-arbitrable.

 Criminal cases again are not arbitrable as they relate to sovereign

 functions of the State. Further, violations of criminal law are

 offenses against the State and not just against the victim.

 Matrimonial disputes relating to the dissolution of marriage,

 restitution of conjugal rights etc. are not arbitrable as they fall

 within the ambit of sovereign functions and do not have any

 commercial and economic value. The decisions have erga omnes

 effect. Matters relating to probate, testamentary matter etc. are

 actions in rem and are a declaration to the world at large and

 hence are non-arbitrable. 47. In view of the aforesaid discussions, we overrule the ratio in N.

 Radhakrishnan inter alia observing that allegations of fraud can

 be made a subject matter of arbitration when they relate to a civil

 dispute. This is subject to the caveat that fraud, which would vitiate

 and invalidate the arbitration clause, is an aspect relating to non-

 arbitrability. We have also set aside the Full Bench decision of the

 Delhi High Court in the case of HDFC Bank Ltd. which holds that 62 the disputes which are to be adjudicated by the DRT under the DRT Act are arbitrable. They are non-arbitrable. 48. Landlord-tenant disputes governed by the Transfer of Property Act are arbitrable as they are not actions in rem but pertain to

 subordinate rights in personam that arise from rights in rem. Such

 actions normally would not affect third-party rights or have erga

 omnes affect or require centralized adjudication. An award passed

 deciding landlord-tenant disputes can be executed and enforced

 like a decree of the civil court. Landlord-tenant disputes do not

 relate to inalienable and sovereign functions of the State. The

 provisions of the Transfer of Property Act do not expressly or by

 necessary implication bar arbitration. Transfer of Property Act , like

 all other Acts, has a public purpose, that is, to regulate landlord-

 tenant relationships and the arbitrator would be bound by the

 provisions, including provisions which enure and protect the

 tenants. 49. In view of the aforesaid, we overrule the ratio laid down in

 Himangni Enterprises and hold that landlord-tenant disputes are

 arbitrable as the Transfer of Property Act does not forbid or 63 foreclose arbitration. However, landlord-tenant disputes covered

 and governed by rent control legislation would not be arbitrable

 when specific court or forum has been given exclusive jurisdiction

 to apply and decide special rights and obligations. Such rights and

 obligations can only be adjudicated and enforced by the specified

 court/forum, and not through arbitration. Who decides non-arbitrability? 50. Lord Mustill’s well-known comparison of the relationship between

 courts and arbitrators to a relay race, reads: 51. Issue of non-arbitrability can be raised at three stages. First,

 before the court on an application for reference under Section 11 or for stay of pending judicial proceedings and reference under 64 Section 8 of the Arbitration Act; secondly, before the arbitral

 tribunal during the course of the arbitration proceedings; or thirdly,

 before the court at the stage of the challenge to the award or its

 enforcement. Therefore, the question – ‘Who decides non-

 arbitrability?’ and, in particular, the jurisdiction of the court at the

 first look stage, that is, the referral stage. 52. Who decides the question of non-arbitrability? - a jurisdictional

 question is a technical legal issue, and requires clarity when

 applied to facts to avoid bootstrapping and confusion. The doubt

 as to who has the jurisdiction to decide could hinder, stray, and

 delay a many arbitration proceedings. Unfortunately, who decides

 non-arbitrability remains a vexed question that does not have a

 straightforward universal answer as would be apparent from

 opinions in the at-variance Indian case laws on this subject. To

 some extent, the answer depends on how much jurisdiction the

 enactment gives to the arbitrator to decide their own jurisdiction as

 well as the court’s jurisdiction at the reference stage and in the

 post-award proceedings. It also depends upon the jurisdiction

 bestowed by the enactment, viz. the facet of non-arbitrability in 65 question, the scope of the arbitration agreement and authority

 conferred on the arbitrator. 53. Under the Arbitration Act, 1940 , the jurisdiction to settle and decide

 non-arbitrability issues relating to existence, validity, scope as well

 as whether the subject matter was capable of arbitration, with

 possible exception in case of termination, novation, frustration and

 ‘accord and satisfaction’ when contested on facts, was determined

 and decided at the first or at the reference stage by the courts.

 The principle being that the court should be satisfied about the

 existence of a valid arbitration agreement and that the disputes

 have arisen with regard to the subject matter of the arbitration

 agreement. At this stage, the court would be, however, not

 concerned with the merits or sustainability of the disputes. Despite

 best efforts to contain obstructive tactics, adjudication and final

 decision of non-arbitrability issues at the reference stage would

 invariably stop, derail and thwart the proceedings in the courts for

 years. 54. The Arbitration Act based upon the UNCITRAL Model Law

 introduced an entirely new regimen with the objective to promote

 arbitration in commercial and economic matters as an alternative 66 dispute resolution mechanism that is fair, responsive and efficient

 to contemporary requirements. One of the primary objectives of the Arbitration Act is to reduce and minimize the supervisory role of

 courts. Accordingly, the statutory powers of the arbitral tribunal to

 deal with and decide jurisdictional issues of non-arbitrability were

 amplified and the principles of separation and competence-

 competence were incorporated, while the courts retained some

 power to have a ‘second look’ in the post-award challenge

 proceeding. On the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage,

 views of this Court have differed and there have been statutory

 amendments to modify and obliterate the legal effect of the court

 decisions. 55. The legal position as to who decides the question of non- arbitrability under the Arbitration Act can be divided into four

 phases. The first phase was from the enforcement of the Arbitration Act till the decision of the Constitution Bench of seven

 Judges in Patel Engineering Ltd. on 26th October 2005. For

 nearly ten years, the ratio expressed in Konkan Railway Corpn.

 Ltd. and Others v. Mehul Construction Co.,44 affirmed by the

44 (2000) 7 SCC 201 67 Constitution Bench of five Judges in Konkan Railway

 Construction Ltd. and Another v. Rani Construction Pvt. Ltd.,45 had prevailed. The second phase commenced with the decision in

 Patel Engineering Ltd. till the legislative amendments, which

 were made to substantially reduce court interference and overrule

 the legal effect of Patel Engineering Ltd. vide Act 3 of 2016 with

 retrospective effect from 23rd October 2015. The third phase

 commenced with effect from 23rd October 2015 and continued till

 the enactment of Act 33 of 2019 with effect from 9 th August 2019,

 from where commenced the fourth phase, with a clear intent to

 promote institutionalized arbitration rather than ad hoc arbitration.

 The amendments introduced by Act 33 of 2019 have been partially

 implemented and enforced. In the present case, we are primarily

 concerned with the legal position in the third phase with effect from

 23rd October 2015 when amendments by Act 3 of 2016 became

 operative. 56. We begin by reproducing the relevant statutory provisions, namely, Sections 8 , 11 , 16 , sub-sections (1) and (2) to Section 34 including

 clause (b), which has been partly quoted in paragraph 39 above,

 and sub-sections (1), (2), (3) to Section 43 of the Arbitration Act.

45 (2002) 2 SCC 388 68 For the sake of clarity and convenience, we are reproducing below

 the provisions of Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act in a

 tabulated form as Sections 8 and 11 were amended by Act 3 of

 2016 with retrospective effect from 23rd October, 2015 and Section

 11 has undergone another amendment vide Act 33 of 2019 with

 effect from 9th August, 2019. Section 8 , pre and post Act 3 of 2016, read as under: (1) A judicial authority before which an action is (1) A judicial authority, before which an
brought in a matter which is the subject of an action is brought in a matter which is the
arbitration agreement shall, if a party so applies subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if
not later than when submitting his first statement a party to the arbitration agreement or any
on the substance of the dispute, refer the parties person claiming through or under him, so
to arbitration. applies not later than the date of submitting
 his first statement on the substance of the
 dispute, then, notwithstanding any
 judgment, decree or order of the Supreme
 Court or any court, refer the parties to
 arbitration unless it finds that prima facie
 no valid arbitration agreement exists.] 69 (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) (2) The application referred to in sub-
shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied section (1) shall not be entertained unless
by the original arbitration agreement or a duly it is accompanied by the original arbitration
certified copy thereof. agreement or a duly certified copy thereof. [Provided that where the original
 arbitration agreement or a certified copy
 thereof is not available with the party
 applying for reference to arbitration under
 sub-section (1), and the said agreement or
 certified copy is retained by the other party
 to that agreement, then, the party so
 applying shall file such application along
 with a copy of the arbitration agreement
 and a petition praying the Court to call
 upon the other party to produce the original
 arbitration agreement or its duly certified
 copy before that Court.]

(3) Notwithstanding that an application has been (3) Notwithstanding that an application has
made under sub-section (1) and that the issue is been made under sub-section (1) and that
pending before the judicial authority, an arbitration the issue is pending before the judicial
may be commenced or continued and an arbitral authority, an arbitration may be
award made. commenced or continued and an arbitral
 award made. xx xx xx Section 11 , pre and post amendments vide Act 3 of 2016 and

 Act 33 of 2019, reads as under: appoint the third arbitrator appoint the third arbitrator two appointed arbitrators shall
who shall act as the presiding who shall act as the presiding appoint the third arbitrator
arbitrator. arbitrator. who shall act as the presiding
 arbitrator. (3-A) The Supreme Court and
 the High Court shall have the
 power to designate, arbitral
 institutions, from time to time,
 which have been graded by
 the Council under Section 43- I, for the purposes of this Act: days from the date of their days from the date of their
appointment, the appointment appointment, the appointment
shall be made, upon request shall be made, upon request
of a party, by the Chief Justice of a party, by the Supreme
or any person or institution Court or, as the case may be,
designated by him. the High Court or any person
 or institution designated by
 such Court. (5) Failing any agreement (5) Failing any agreement (5) Failing any agreement
referred to in sub-section (2), referred to in sub-section (2), 71 in an arbitration with a sole in an arbitration with a sole referred to in sub-section (2),
arbitrator, if the parties fail to arbitrator, if the parties fail to in an arbitration with a sole
agree on the arbitrator within agree on the arbitrator within arbitrator, if the parties fail to
thirty days from receipt of a thirty days from receipt of a agree on the arbitrator within
request by one party from the request by one party from the thirty days from receipt of a
other party to so agree the other party to so agree the request by one party from the
appointment shall be made, appointment shall be made, other party to so agree [the
upon request of a party, by upon request of a party, by appointment shall be made on
the Chief Justice or any the Supreme Court or, as the an application of the party in
person or institution case may be, the High Court accordance with the
designated by him. or any person or institution provisions contained in sub- designated by such Court. section (4)]. (6) Where, under an (6) Where, under an (6) Where, under an
appointment procedure appointment procedure appointment procedure
agreed upon by the parties,–– agreed upon by the parties,–– agreed upon by the parties,— (a) a party fails to act as (a) a party fails to act as (a) a party fails to act as
required under that required under that required under that
procedure; or procedure; or procedure; or (b) the parties, or the two (b) the parties, or the two (b) the parties, or the two
appointed arbitrators, fail to appointed arbitrators, fail to
 appointed arbitrators, fail to
reach an agreement expected reach an agreement expected
 reach an agreement expected
of them under that procedure; of them under that procedure; of them under that procedure; by sun-section (4) or sub- may deed appropriate for
section (5) or sub-section (6) dealing with matters entrusted
to him. by sub-section (4) or sub- section (5) or sub-section (6),
 to it. (11) Where more than one (11) Where more than one (11) Where more than one
request has been made under request has been made under request has been made under
sub-section (4) or sub-section sub-section (4) or sub-section sub-section (4) or sub-section
(5) or sub-section (6) to the (5) or sub-section (6) to 3 (5) or sub-section (6) to
Chief Justices of different different High Courts or their different arbitral institutions,
High Courts or their designates, the High Court or the arbitral institution to which
designates, the Chief Justice its designate to whom the the request has been first
or his designate to whom the request has been first made made under the relevant sub-
request has been first made under the relevant sub-section section shall be competent to
under the relevant sub-section shall alone be competent to appoint.
shall alone be competent to decide on the request
decide on the request. (12) (a) Where the matters (12) (a) Where the matters (12) Where the matter
referred to in sub-sections (4), referred to in sub-sections (4), referred to in sub-sections (4),
(5), (6), (7), (8) and (10) arise (5), (6), (7), (8) and sub- (5), (6) and (8) arise in an
in an international commercial section (10) arise in an international commercial
arbitration, the reference to international commercial arbitration or any other
Chief Justice in those sub- arbitration, the reference to arbitration, the reference to
sections shall be construed as the Supreme Court or, as the the arbitral institution in those
a reference to the Chief case may be, the High Court sub-sections shall be
Justice of India in those sub-sections shall be construed as a reference to (b) Where the matters construed as a reference to the arbitral institution
referred to in sub-sections (4), the Supreme Court; and (b) designated under sub-section
(5), (6), (7), (8) and (10) arise where the matters referred to (3-A).
in any other arbitration, the in sub-sections (4), (5), (6),
reference to Chief Justice in (7), (8) and sub-section (10)
those sub-sections shall be arise in any other arbitration,
construed as a reference to the reference to the Supreme
the Chief Justice of the High Court or, as the case may be,
Court within whose local limits the High Court in those
the principal Civil Court subsections shall be
referred to in clause (e) of construed as a reference to
sub-section (1) of section 2 is the High Court within whose
situate and, where the High local limits the principal Civil
Court itself is the Court Court referred to in clause (e)
referred to in that clause, to of sub-section (1) of section 2 the Chief Justice of that High is situate, and where the High
Court. Court itself is the Court
 referred to in that clause, to
 that High Court. NA (13) An application made (13) An application made
 under this section for under this section for
 appointment of an arbitrator or appointment of an arbitrator or
 arbitrators shall be disposed arbitrators shall be disposed
 of by the Supreme Court or of by the arbitral institution
 the High Court or the person within a period of thirty days
 or institution designated by from the date of service of
 such Court, as the case may notice on the opposite party.
 be, as expeditiously as
 possible and an endeavour
 shall be made to dispose of
 the matter within a period of 74 sixty days from the date of
 service of notice on the
 opposite party. (14) For the purpose of (14) The arbitral institution
 determination of the fees of shall determine the fees of the
 the arbitral tribunal and the arbitral tribunal and the
 manner of its payment to the manner of its payment to the
 arbitral tribunal, the High arbitral tribunal subject to the
 Court may frame such rules rates specified in the Fourth
 as may be necessary, after Schedule. taking into consideration the
 rates specified in the Fourth
 Schedule. Explanation.–– For
 NA the removal of doubts, it is
 hereby clarified that this sub- section shall not apply to
 international commercial
 arbitration and in arbitrations
 (other than international
 commercial arbitration) in
 case where parties have
 agreed for determination of
 fees as per the rules of an
 arbitral institution. xx xx xx Section 16 of the Arbitration Act reads as under: section (3). (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the Court
 only if— (a) the party making the application establishes on the
 basis of the record of the arbitral tribunal that — (i) a party was under some incapacity, or (ii) the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law
 to which the parties have subjected it or, failing any 76 indication thereon, under the law for the time being in
force; or (iii) the party making the application was not given
proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of
the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise unable to
present his case; or (iv) the arbitral award deals with a dispute not
contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the
submission to arbitration, or it contains decisions on
matters beyond the scope of the submission to
arbitration: Explanation 1—For the avoidance of any doubt, it is
clarified that an award is in conflict with the public
policy of India, only if,— 77 (i) the making of the award was induced or affected
 by fraud or corruption or was in violation of section 75
 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental policy of
 Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions of
 morality or justice. Explanation 2—For the avoidance of doubt, the test
 as to whether there is a contravention with the
 fundamental policy of Indian law shall not entail a
 review on the merits of the dispute.”

 xx xx xx

 Sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 43 of the Arbitration

Act reads as under: (3) Where an arbitration agreement to submit future
 disputes to arbitration provides that any claim to
 which the agreement applies shall be barred unless
 the agreement, and a dispute arises to which the
 agreement applies, the Court , if it is of opinion that in
 the circumstances of the case undue hardship would
 otherwise be caused, and notwithstanding that the
 time so fixed has expired, may on such terms, if any,
 as the justice of the case may require, extend the time
 for such period as it thinks proper.” 78 57. In, Rani Construction Pvt. Ltd. the Constitution Bench reiterated

 the earlier view expressed in Mehul Construction Co., that an

 order appointing an arbitrator under Section 11 of the Arbitration

 Act is an administrative order that did not mandate notice and

 hearing of the other party. Being an administrative order, the Chief

 Justice or his nominee do not decide any preliminary issue, or the

 issue of non-arbitrability, validity and existence of the arbitration

 agreement, which are to be decided by the arbitrator at the first

 instance. 58. However, a Constitution Bench of seven Judges vide majority

 judgment in Patel Engineering Ltd. overruled this ratio and held: 59. In National Insurance Company Limited v. Boghara Polyfab

 Private Limited,46 a two Judges’ Bench of this Court, elucidating

 on Patel Engineering Ltd., had identified and segregated the

 issues that arise for consideration in an application under Section

 11 of the Arbitration Act into three categories, viz. (i) issues which

 the Chief Justice or his designate is bound to decide; (ii) issues

 which he can also decide, that is, issues which he may choose to

 decide or leave it to the arbitral tribunal to decide; and (iii) issues

46 (2009) 1 SCC 267 81 which should be left to the arbitral tribunal to decide, and thereafter

had enumerated them as under: 22.2 The issues (second category) which the Chief
 Justice/his designate may choose to decide (or leave
 them to the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal) are: 22.3 The issues (third category) which the Chief
 Justice/his designate should leave exclusively to the
 Arbitral Tribunal are: 23. It is clear from the scheme of the Act as explained
 by this Court in SBP & Co., that in regard to issues
 falling under the second category, if raised in any
 application under Section 11 of the Act, the Chief
 Justice/his designate may decide them, if necessary,
 by taking evidence. Alternatively, he may leave those 82 issues open with a direction to the Arbitral Tribunal to
 decide the same. If the Chief Justice or his designate
 chooses to examine the issue and decides it, the
 Arbitral Tribunal cannot re-examine the same issue.
 The Chief Justice/his designate will, in choosing
 whether he will decide such issue or leave it to the
 Arbitral Tribunal, be guided by the object of the Act
 (that is expediting the arbitration process with
 minimum judicial intervention). Where allegations of
 forgery/fabrication are made in regard to the
 document recording discharge of contract by full and
 final settlement, it would be appropriate if the Chief
 Justice/his designate decides the issue.” 24. What is however clear is when a respondent
 contends that the dispute is not arbitrable on account
 of discharge of the contract under a settlement
 agreement or discharge voucher or no-claim
 certificate, and the claimant contends that it was
 obtained by fraud, coercion or undue influence, the
 issue will have to be decided either by the Chief
 Justice/his designate in the proceedings under Section 11 of the Act or by the Arbitral Tribunal as
 directed by the order under Section 11 of the Act. A
 claim for arbitration cannot be rejected merely or
 solely on the ground that a settlement agreement or
 discharge voucher had been executed by the
 claimant, if its validity is disputed by the claimant.” 60. The issues included in the first category were: whether the party

 making the application had approached the appropriate High

 Court, that is, the jurisdictional High Court; whether there is an

 arbitration agreement and whether the person who had applied

 under Section 11 is a party to such agreement. This would include

 the question whether the defendant or the opposite party is a party 83 to the arbitration agreement or bound by the arbitration agreement

in terms of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. With respect to the

second category, the Court observed that the Chief Justice or his

designate may decide the issue, if necessary, by taking evidence

or in the alternative may leave the issues open with the direction to

the arbitral tribunal to decide the same. Where the Chief Justice or

his designate examines the issue and decides it, the arbitral

tribunal cannot re-examine the issue. The Chief Justice or his

designate would exercise this choice being guided by the object of

the Arbitration Act , that is, expediting the arbitration process with

minimum judicial intervention. Where dispute arises on account of

settlement agreement, discharge voucher, no claim certificate

amounting to discharge or accord and satisfaction, and the other

side contends that such certificates were obtained by fraud,

coercion or undue influence, the issue will have to be decided

either by the Chief Justice or his designate in proceedings under Section 11 or by the arbitral tribunal as directed by the order under Section 11 of the Act. A claim for arbitration cannot be rejected

merely or solely on the ground that the settlement agreement or

discharge voucher had been executed if its validity is disputed. The

third category would cover all other questions within the arbitration 84 clause, which the court believed are within the exclusive

 jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal at the first stage. This was

 explained by giving an example of a matter purportedly reserved

 for the final determination of the departmental authority or

 excepted or excluded matters. It would also include merits of any

 claim involved in arbitration. 61. Paragraph 22 of Boghara Polyfab Private Limited, if read

 carefully, states that the factors to be considered while deciding an

 application under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act would

 require an examination of whether there exists an arbitration

 agreement, that is, the agreement provides for arbitration

 proceedings in respect of disputes which have arisen between the

 parties to the agreement. The latter portion requires the court to

 apply its mind whether the disputes which have arisen can be

 settled by the arbitration agreement. The aforesaid observations,

 in our opinion, would be in conformity with the majority decision of

 the Constitution Bench in Patel Engineering Ltd. wherein it was

 observed that Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act are

 complimentary in nature and the Court, while exercising powers

 under the two Sections on whether the matter should be referred to 85 arbitration, enjoys equal powers, otherwise, it would lead to an

 anomalous situation in that a judicial authority has wider power

 under Section 8 but lesser power of examination under Section 11 . 62. In Arasmeta Captive Power Company Private Limited and

 Another v. Lafarge India Private Limited,47 this Court had

 examined whether there is any conflict between Patel

 Engineering Ltd. and Boghara Polyfab Private Limited on the

 question of the scope of inquiry while deciding an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act. The Division Bench in

 Arasmeta Captive Power Co. Pvt. Ltd. had referred to paragraph

 39 and sub-para (iv) of paragraph 47 in Patel Engineering Ltd., to

 observe: barred claim is sought to be restricted and whether
 the parties had concluded the transaction by
47 (2013) 15 SCC 414 86 recording satisfaction of the mutual rights and
 obligations or by receiving the final payment without
 objection.”

 Thereafter, reference was made to the opinion expressed in

 judgment in Shree Ram Mills Ltd. v. Utility Premises (P) Ltd.,48 which it was contented had taken a different view from one in

 Boghara Polyfab Private Limited. Disagreeing, the Court

 referred to the three Judge Bench decision in Chloro Controls

 India Private Limited which had considered the issue whether

 there was any variance between Shree Ram Mills Ltd. and

 Boghara Polyfab Private Limited, to hold that there was none

 and both the judgments are capable of being read in harmony to

 bring in line with the law declared in Patel Engineering Ltd. In

 particular, a reference was made to the following portion of the

 paragraph 27 of Shree Ram Mills Ltd. and paragraph 119 of

 Chloro Controls India Private Limited which read as under: 48 (2007) 4 SCC 599 87 fact. The Chief Justice only has to record his
 satisfaction that prima facie the issue has not become
 dead by the lapse of time or that any party to the
 agreement has not slept over its rights beyond the
 time permitted by law to agitate those issues covered
 by the agreement. It is for this reason that it was
 pointed out in the above paragraph that it would be
 appropriate sometimes to leave the question
 regarding the live claim to be decided by the Arbitral
 Tribunal. All that he has to do is to record his
 satisfaction that the parties have not closed their
 rights and the matter has not been barred by
 limitation. Thus, where the Chief Justice comes to a
 finding that there exists a live issue, then naturally this
 finding would include a finding that the respective
 claims of the parties have not become barred by
 limitation.”

 xx xx xx

 “119. Thus, the Bench while explaining the judgment
 of this Court in SBP [SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd.,
 (2005) 8 SCC 618] has stated that the Chief Justice
 may not decide certain issues finally and upon
 recording satisfaction that prima facie the issue has
 not become dead even leave it for the Arbitral Tribunal
 to decide.”

 In Arasmeta Captive Power Co. (P) Ltd., elucidating on the

question whether the dispute was arbitrable within the scope of the

arbitration clause should be decided by the Chief Justice/designate

Judge or by the arbitrator, this Court has observed: 49 (2005) 7 SCC 234 89 arbitrator can decide his or her own jurisdiction even when the

validity of the main contract or the arbitration agreement is

challenged. Section 34 states that the Court can go into three

different aspects of arbitrability at the post-award stage. Therefore,

the Arbitration Act itself envisages that the arbitral tribunal should

rule on the questions of non-arbitrability subject to the second look

of the court post the award. This helps in expeditious and quick

disposal of matters before the court at the first stage while

reserving the court’s power to examine the three facets of

arbitrability at the third stage. This also prevents the possibility of

a multiplicity of trials, an aspect highlighted in Sukanya Holdings

(P) Ltd. On the ambit of the Court’s jurisdiction at the reference

stage, it was observed that the correct approach to the review of

the arbitration agreement would be restricted to prima facie finding

that there exists an arbitration agreement that is not null and void,

inoperative or incapable of being performed. The key rationale for

holding that the courts’ review of the arbitration agreement should

be limited to a prima facie standard is the principle of competence-

competence. Further, were the courts are to be empowered to

fully scrutinize the arbitration agreement an arbitral proceeding

would have to be stayed until such time that the court seized of the 90 matter renders a decision on the arbitration agreement. If the

finding of the courts would be a final and determinative conclusion,

then it is obvious that, until such a pronouncement is made, the

arbitral proceedings would have to hang in abeyance. This

evidently would defeat the credo and ethos of the Arbitration Act ,

which is to enable expeditious arbitration without avoidable

intervention by the judicial authorities. As a result, the approach to

be adopted at the reference stage is whether it is ‘plainly arguable’

that the arbitration agreement is in existence. The judgment laid

emphasis on the fact that the rule of priority in favour of the

arbitrators is counter-balanced by the courts’ power to review the

existence and validity of the arbitration agreement at the end of the

arbitral process. It was elucidated: section (6-A) to Section 11 and making amendments to Section 8 by Act 3 of 2016 has legislatively introduced a new regime so as to

 dilute and legislatively overrule the effect and ratio of the judgment

 of this Court in Patel Engineering Ltd. Reliance was placed on

 paragraph 48 and 59 in Duro Felguera S.A. The concluding

 paragraph in Mayavati Trading Private Limited records: 50 (2019) 8 SCC 714 93 66. Paragraph 48 and paragraph 59 of Duro Felguera, S.A. referred

 to above , read as under: 67. Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. in A. Ayyasamy observed that Section 8 of the Arbitration Act has made a departure from Article 8 of

 UNCITRAL Model Law as the former uses the expression ‘judicial

 authority’ rather than court and the words “unless it finds that the

 agreement is null and void, inoperative and incapable of being

 performed” mentioned in Article 8 do not find place in Section 8 . 94 Section 16 empowers the arbitral tribunal to rule upon its own

 jurisdiction, including the ruling with respect to the existence or

 validity of the arbitration agreement. Further clause (b) to Section

 16(1) stipulates that a decision by an arbitral tribunal that the main

 contract is void, will not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the

 arbitration clause. The arbitration agreement survives for

 determining whether the contract in which the arbitration clause is

 embodied is null and void, which would include voidability. The

 severability doctrine in arbitration is of crucial significance.

 Reference was made to the judgment of the U.K. Court of Appeal

 in Fiona Trust and Holding Corpn. v. Privalov,51 which judgment

 was affirmed by the House of Lords in Filli Shipping Co. Limited

 v. Premium Nafta Products Ltd.,52 to highlight that the arbitration

 clause should be liberally construed in favour of one-stop

 arbitration. Mere allegation that the agent had no authority to enter

 into the main contract is not necessarily an attack on the arbitration

 agreement. The principle of severability treats arbitration

 agreement as a distinct agreement that can be void or voidable

 only on the ground that relates to the arbitration agreement.

 Reference was also made to the opinion of Scalia, J. of the

51 (2007) 1 All ER (Comm) 891 : 2007 Bus LR 686 (CA)
52 2007 UKHL 40 : 2007 Bus LR 1719 (HL) 95 Supreme Court of America in Buckeye Check Cashing Inc. v. Cardegna53 that arbitration agreement is severable from the

 remainder of the contract and unless the challenge is to the

 arbitration clause itself, the issue of contract’s validity should be

 considered by the arbitrator in the first instance. In conclusion, it

 was observed: 53 163 L Ed 2d 1038 : 546 US 440 (2006) : 2006 SCC OnLine US SC 14 96 68. In Garware Wall Ropes Limited v. Coastal Marine

 Constructions and Engineering Limited,54 the question related

 to the effect of an arbitration clause contained in the master

 contract which was required to be stamped. The second part of Section 7(2) was applicable. The issue was whether the judge

 hearing the Section 11 application should impound the main

 contract and ensure that duty and penalty, if any, are paid or in

 view of sub-section (6-A) to Section 11 this issue should be

 examined and decided by the arbitrator. The argument drawing

 distinction between validity and existence was raised before the

 Court (see paragraph 5 which records the contention) but was

 rejected for several reasons, including the reasoning given in Patel

 Engineering Ltd., to hold that it is difficult to accede to the

 argument that Section 16 of the Arbitration Act makes it clear that

 an arbitration agreement has an independent existence of its own.

 Secondly, on the connect between existence and validity of an

 arbitration agreement, it was observed: 22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a
contract”, it is significant that the agreement only
becomes a contract if it is enforceable by law. We
have seen how, under the Stamp Act , an agreement
does not become a contract, namely, that it is not
enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped.
Therefore, even a plain reading of Section 11 (6-A),
when read with Section 7(2) of the 1996 Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear
that an arbitration clause in an agreement would not
exist when it is not enforceable by law. This is also an 98 indicator that SMS Tea Estates has, in no manner,
 been touched by the amendment of Section 11 (6-A).”

 Thereafter, reference was made to paragraph 83 in Enercon

 (India) Ltd. v. Enercon GmbH55 wherein the concept of

 separability of arbitration clause or agreement from the underlying

 contract was dealt with, and it was observed that it is necessary to

 ensure that the intention of the parties does not evaporate into thin

 air when there is a challenge to the legality, validity, finality, or

 breach of the underlying contract. This is the mandate of Section

 16 of the Arbitration Act which accepts the concept that the main

 contract and the arbitration agreement form two different contracts.

 It is true that support of the national courts would be required to

 ensure the success of arbitration but this would not detract from

 the legitimacy or independence of the collateral arbitration

 agreement even if it is contained in a contract, which is claimed to

 be void or voidable or un-concluded. However, this judgment was

 distinguished in Garware Wall Ropes Limited as a case relating

 to the controversy whether an arbitration clause was to apply even

 if there is no concluded contract, but the finding was to the

 contrary as the case was within the second part and not under the

 first part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration Act. In Enercon (India)

55 (2014) 5 SCC 1 : (2014) 3 SCC (Civ) 59 99 Ltd., on facts it was held that the arbitration clause was separate

 from the main contract as the disputes relating to the intellectual

 property right license agreement were arbitrable. Thereafter,

 reference was made to the decision in United India Insurance

 Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. 56 and it was

 observed that the arbitration clause was identical as in Oriental

 Insurance Company Limited v. Narbheram Power and Steel

 Private Limited57 with the conditional expression of intent only

 when the liability was unequivocally admitted by the insurer and

 the dispute was related to the quantum to be paid under the policy.

 On the question of ‘existence’ and ‘validity’, the Bench held: 56 (2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530
57 (2018) 6 SCC 534 100 expression “existence” in Hyundai Engg. case, as
 followed by us.” 69. In Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited, a three Judges’

 Bench of this Court had decided the Civil Appeal arising from an

 application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act in an

 insurance contract. Primarily relying upon the decision of three

 Judges’ Bench in Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Maharaj Singh

 and Another,58 it was held that the disputes were not arbitrable as

 in terms of the arbitration clause as the insurer had disputed and

 not accepted the liability. The arbitration clause applies only if

 there is a dispute pertaining to the quantum. This decision, though

 dated 2nd May 2018, did not refer to Section 11 (6- A) of the

 Arbitration Act and interpret the same. The Civil Appeal had arisen

 from the correspondence exchanged between the insurance

 company and the insured in the years 2013 and 2014. However,

 reference was made to the concurring opinion of Dr. D.Y.

 Chandrachud, J. in A. Ayyasamy, and it was observed that the

 decision was not applicable to the case at hand. The decision in

 Chloro Controls India Private Limited was held to be not

 remotely relevant for deciding the lis in the said case.

58 (1976) 1 SCC 943 101 70. This decision in Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited

 was followed in Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., wherein

 a similar arbitration clause had come up for consideration.

 However, in this case, reference was made to Section 11 (6- A) of

 the Arbitration Act . It is, therefore, clear that on two occasions, in

 Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited and Hyundai

 Engineering and Construction Company Limited, a three

 Judges’ Bench of this Court affirmatively and in clear terms held

 that the question of non-arbitrability relating to the enquiry whether

 the dispute was governed by the arbitration clause, can be

 examined by the courts at the reference stage and may not be left

 unanswered to be examined and decided by the arbitral tribunal.

 These are decisions by a Bench of three Judges and, as noticed

 above, were quoted with affirmation in Garware Wall Ropes

 Limited by a Bench of two Judges. 71. In M/s. PSA Mumbai Investments PTE. Limited v. The Board of

 Trustees of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust and Another,59 a

 division bench of this Court, after referring to in detail the global

 invitation of request for qualification and the request for proposal,

 came to the conclusion that the arbitration clause in the request for

59 Civil Appeal No. 9352 of 2018 decided on 11th September 2018. 102 qualification documents would not be applicable and govern the

 disputes. Therefore, the respondent was left to pursue its claim

 before an appropriate forum, in accordance with law. The decision

 was made at the first or the referral stage. 72. At this stage we would like to refer to different views expressed by

 scholars on the subject, which also refer to the legal position in

 different countries. Stavros Brekoulakis in his paper titled On

 Arbitrability: Persisting Misconceptions and New Areas of Concern

 accepts that as per prevailing view in-arbitrability of the subject

 matter of the arbitration agreement renders the arbitration

 agreement invalid. However, he argues that in-arbitrability of the

 subject matter is an issue concerning jurisdiction of arbitral tribunal

 rather than the validity of the arbitration agreement. Referring to

 Article V(1)(a) and Article V(2)(a) of the New York Convention, he

 draws a distinction between in-arbitrability and invalidity.

 Arbitration agreements are sui generis contracts with both

 contractual and jurisdictional features. The latter is wider in scope.

 The courts at the referral stage may review only whatever is

 related to the formation of the arbitration agreement as a

 substantive contract, that is, contractual aspects of the arbitration 103 agreement and jurisdictional aspects of the arbitration agreement

 should be left to the arbitral tribunal. In other words, at the stage of

 referral, the courts may review only whatever is related to the

 formation of the arbitration agreement (the contractual aspects of

 the arbitration agreement) and the issues relating to the

 jurisdictional aspects of the arbitration agreement, which as per the

 author includes the question relating to non-arbitrability of the

 claims, should be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the arbitral

 tribunals. Thus, distinction is drawn between validity in terms of

 substantive and formal validity of an arbitration agreement as

 contractual aspects; and whether a claim is non-arbitrable. The

 latter question would be arbitrable and not for the courts to decide

 at the referral stage. However, on referring to Articles II(1) and II(3)

 of the New York Convention the author did observe that it seems to

 include arbitrability of subject matter within the essential meaning

 of an arbitration agreement. 73. Emmanuel Gaillard and Yas Banifatemi in Negative Effect of

 Competence-Competence: The Rule of Priority in Favour of the

 Arbitrators observe that it is the basic requirement that the parties

 to the arbitration agreement should honour their undertaking to 104 submit to the arbitration any dispute covered by the agreement.

This entails the consequence that the courts are prohibited from

hearing such disputes. On the question of courts’ interference at

the reference stage in terms of Article II(3) of the New York

Convention, they are of the opinion that there is no indication

provided as to the standard that should be applied for such

determination, that is, whether the courts are required to conduct

in-depth investigation into the merits of the existence and validity of

the arbitration agreement and issue a final decision on the

question, or the court should restrict itself to prima facie verification

that the arbitration agreement exists and is valid, and reserve its

full review until the time when there is an action to enforce or set

aside the arbitral award. The question, in effect, is one of timing

and to the extent the courts are entitled to review the existence

and validity of the arbitration agreement. The answer, they

observe, is found in the notion of competence-competence, one of

the founding principles of the international arbitration law that

provides the arbitrators with power to rule on their own jurisdiction

and embodies the mirroring effect that the court should refrain from

engaging in examination of the arbitrator’s jurisdiction before the

arbitrators themselves have an opportunity to do so. This, they 105 state, by no means suggests that the domestic courts relinquish

 their power to review the existence and validity of an arbitration

 agreement which is first left to the arbitrators to rule. The courts

 enjoy the power of scrutiny after the award is rendered. They have

 referred to decisions of the higher courts of Switzerland, 60 England,

 France, Canada and India (Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd.) to

 observe that the court’s review at the first stage is limited to prima

 facie verification of existence and validity of the arbitration clause

 without the question being analysed in detail which the tribunal is

 empowered to decide when necessary. At the reference stage, the

 court shall decline jurisdiction if the summary examination of the

 arbitration agreement does not allow it to find that the agreement is

 null and void, inoperative and incapable of being performed. The

 Canadian courts, apply the general rule that in any case involving

 an arbitration clause, a challenge to arbitrator’s jurisdiction must be

 resolved first by the arbitrator and the court will depart from this

 rule of systematic referral of arbitration only if the challenge to

 arbitrator’s jurisdiction is solely based on a question of law.

 Exercise of court’s jurisdiction in the latter case would be justified

 as the court is the forum to which the parties first apply when
60 Article 5 of the Concordat (domestic law) provides that any dispute concerning rights the parties
may freely dispose of is capable of resolution by arbitration, unless the subject matter of the dispute
falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of a state authority by virtue of mandatory law. 106 requesting for referral and that the arbitrator’s jurisdiction regarding

 his or her jurisdiction can be reviewed by the court. Further, it

 allows the court to decide the legal argument for once and for all

 and avoids duplication of a strictly legal debate. Another condition

 is that the court must be satisfied that the challenge to the

 arbitrator’s jurisdiction is not a delaying tactic and that it will not

 unduly impair the conduct of arbitration proceedings. This means

 that the court, when considering one of the exceptions, may allow

 the arbitrator to rule on his or her competence as would be best for

 the arbitration process. 74. Referring to the House of Lords decision in Premium Nafta

 Products Ltd., the authors have observed that the decision

 reaffirms the principle of severability of an arbitration agreement

 and the proper approach is to stay the court proceedings in favour

 of arbitration. Lord Hoffmann speaking for the House of Lords in

 Premium Nafta Products Ltd. has observed: 75. John J. Barcelo III, in his paper titled ‘Who Decides the Arbitrator’s

 Jurisdiction? Separability and Competence-Competence in

 Transnational Perspective’, observes that the greater the number

 of issues required to be fully adjudicated at Stage I, the greater is

 the potential for disruption of the arbitration process by an

 obstructing party even in case of a genuine agreement to

 arbitration. An extremely pro-arbitration approach with no or

 minimal judicial scrutiny might send all the questions to the

 arbitrators. At the same time arbitration is no holy grail and not all

 parties resisting arbitration are obstructionists. A party must have

 its say in the court, unless he has agreed to arbitrate. A good legal

 order must decide what weight be given to these competing values

 and how to structure the process to maximize overall value by 108 reducing opportunities for obstructionism while preserving

legitimate claims for reasonably prompt judicial decision. Referring

to the competence-competence and severability principles the

author has observed: - competence principle. The latter allows arbitration proceedings to

go forward despite the court consideration of the arbitrator’s

jurisdiction. Article 16(3) encourages outcome by expressly

empowering arbitrators to rule over their jurisdiction as a

preliminary question. The British Arbitration Act of 1996 based on

the Model Law requires the court to stay the legal proceedings, 110 ‘unless satisfied’ that the arbitration agreement is null and void,

 inoperative or incapable of being performed. “Unless satisfied”, the

 author observes, is closer to “unless it is manifest”, rather than it is

 to the Model Law terminology “unless it finds”. The British Act allows the arbitrator to render his/her decision on jurisdiction either

 in the preliminary award or in the final award, but allows the parties

 to insist the arbitrators for preliminary and an early decision as a

 check against wasteful proceedings. The paper also deals with the

 American approach in domestic and international arbitration. In

 domestic law the issues of arbitrability have been divided into

 procedural and substantial objections. Procedural arbitrability

 issues include whether a time limit for bringing a claim has been

 observed or whether a party has waived its right to arbitrate and

 also issues like waiver or estoppel thereby denying a party from

 claiming the right or any pre-condition for invoking arbitration has

 not been made, etc. These issues are ‘gateway questions’ 61 that

 are presumptively for the arbitrator to decide and not for the courts

 to decide, at least at the first stage. The substantive aspects are

 those wherein the court at the first stage would go into prima facie

 examination. Substantive issues pertaining to the validity and

61 First Options of Chicago v. Kaplan, 514 U.S. 938 (1995) and Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds,
Inc., 537 U.S. 79 (2002). 111 existence of the arbitration agreement (Legal position in domestic

 law post- Buckeye Check Cashing Inc. is explained below.) He

 observes that the United States Supreme Court has frequently

 been more receptive to international as opposed to domestic

 agreements. An important consideration being that international

 agreements are commercial and involve sophisticated, generally

 well-advised parties and there is a need for uniformity of

 interpretation under the New York Convention. 76. The United States Supreme Court in Buckeye Check Cashing

 Inc., relying on earlier decisions in Prima Paint Corpn. v. Flood

 & Conklin Mfg. Co.62 and Southland Corpn. v. Keating,63 in

 respect of the domestic American law has clarified the legal

 position as establishing the following propositions: 77. Prof. Alan Scott Rau65 questions the “abstract distinction between

 ‘invalidity and nonexistence” as “nothing”. The author while

 supporting the principle of separability rejects the argument that

 formation of a contract is different from enforcement of the contract

 as when the agreement is invalid there is no agreement to

 anything. He observes: Foot note 50 reads as: 78. Prof. Stephen J. Ware in Arbitration Law’s Separability Doctrine

 After Buckeye Check Cashing, Inc., with reference to the American

 Law projects a different view: 79. In order to appreciate the effect of the amendments made by Act 3

 of 2016, it would be appropriate to refer to the Law Commission’s

 246th Report which had given reasons for amendments to Sections

 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act, including insertion of sub-section (6-

 A) to Section 11 . The said reasons read as under: Aksh Optifibre, (2005) 7 SCC 234, (in the context of section 45 of the Act), where the Supreme Court has
ruled in favour of looking at the issues/controversy
only prima facie. 33. It is in this context, the Commission has
recommended amendments to sections 8 and 11 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The scope
of judicial intervention is only restricted to situations
where the Court/Judicial Authority finds that the
arbitration agreemend does not exist or is null and
void. In so far as the nature of intervention is
concerned, it is recommended that in the event the
Court/Judicial Authority is prima facie satisfied against
the argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it
shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the parties to
arbitration, as the case may be. The amendment
envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the
parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not
exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and
void. If the judicial authority is of the opinion that
prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it
shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the
existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally
determined by the arbitral tribunal. However, if the
judicial authority concludes that the agreement does
not exist, then the conclusion will be final and not
prima facie. The amendment also envisages that
there shall be a conclusive determination as to
whether the arbitration agreement is null and void. In
the event that the judicial authority refers the dispute
to arbitration and/or appoints an arbitrator, under sections 8 and 11 respectively, such a decision will be 117 final and non-appealable. An appeal can be
 maintained under section 37 only in the event of
 refusal to refer parties to arbitration, or refusal to
 appoint an arbitrator.”

 The Law Commission’s Report specifically refers to the

 decision of this Court in Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd., a decision

 relating to transnational arbitration covered by the New York

 Convention. 80. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of Act 3 of 2016 read as

 under: (ii) to ensure that an Indian Court can exercise
 jurisdiction to grant interim measures, etc., even
 where the seat of the arbitration is outside India; (iii) an application for appointment of an arbitrator
 shall be disposed of by the High Court or Supreme
 Court, as the case may be, as expeditiously as
 possible and an endeavour should be made to
 dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days; (iv) to provide that while considering any application
 for appointment of arbitrator, the High Court or the 118 Supreme Court shall examine the existence of a
 prima facie arbitration agreement and not other
 issues; (v) to provide that the Arbitral Tribunal shall make its
 award within a period of twelve months from the date
 it enters upon the reference and that the parties may,
 however, extend such period up to six months,
 beyond which period any extension can only be
 granted by the Court, on sufficient cause; (vi) to provide that a model fee schedule on the basis
 of which High Courts may frame rules for the purpose
 of determination of fees of Arbitral Tribunal, where a
 High Court appoints arbitrator in terms of Section 11 of the Act; (vii) to provide that the parties to dispute may at any
 stage agree in writing that their dispute be resolved
 through fast-track procedure and the award in such
 cases shall be made within a period of six months; (viii) to provide for neutrality of arbitrators, when a
 person is approached in connection with possible
 appointment as an arbitrator; (ix) to provide that application to challenge the award
 is to be disposed of by the Court within one year. 7. The amendments proposed in the Bill will ensure
 that arbitration process becomes more user-friendly,
 cost effective and leads to expeditious disposal of
 cases.” 81. We would now examine the principles of separability and

 competence-competence. Clauses (a) and (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 16 enact the principle of separation of the arbitration

 agreement from the underlying or container contract. Clause (a), 119 by legal fiction, gives an independent status to an arbitration

clause as if it is a standalone agreement, even when it is only a

clause and an integral part of the underlying or container contract.

Clause (b) formulates a legal rule that a decision by the arbitral

tribunal holding that the main contract is null and void shall not

ipso jure entail invalidity of the arbitration clause. Successful

challenge to the existence or invalidity or rescission of the main

contract does not necessarily embrace an identical finding as to

the arbitration agreement, provided the court is satisfied that the

arbitration clause had been agreed upon. The arbitration

agreement can be avoided only on the ground which relates

directly to the arbitration agreement. Notwithstanding the challenge

to the underlying or container contract, the arbitration clause in the

underlying or container contract survives for determining the

disputes. The principle prevents boot-strapping as it is primarily for

the arbitral tribunal and not for the court to decide issues of

existence, validity and rescission of the underlying contract.

Principle of separation authorises an arbitral tribunal to rule and

decide on the existence, validity or rescission of the underlying

contract without an earlier adjudication of the questions by the

referral court. 120 82. An interesting and relevant exposition, when assertions claiming

 repudiation, rescission or ‘accord and satisfaction’ are made by a

 party opposing reference, is to found in Damodar Valley

 Corporation v. K.K. Kar,66 which had referred to an earlier

 judgment of this Court in Union of India v. Kishorilal Gupta &

 Bros.,67 to observe: On the other hand, proposition (6) seems to be laying the weight

 on to the views of Sarkar, J. These decisions were under the Arbitration Act,1940 . The Arbitration Act specifically incorporates

 principles of separation and competence-competence and

 empowers the arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. 83. Principles of competence-competence have positive and negative

 connotations. As a positive implication, the arbitral tribunals are

 declared competent and authorised by law to rule as to their 122 jurisdiction and decide non-arbitrability questions. In case of

 expressed negative effect, the statute would govern and should be

 followed. Implied negative effect curtails and constrains

 interference by the court at the referral stage by necessary

 implication in order to allow the arbitral tribunal to rule as to their

 jurisdiction and decide non-arbitrability questions. As per the

 negative effect, courts at the referral stage are not to decide on

 merits, except when permitted by the legislation either expressly or

 by necessary implication, such questions of non-arbitrability. Such

 prioritisation of arbitral tribunal over the courts can be partial and

 limited when the legislation provides for some or restricted scrutiny

 at the ‘first look’ referral stage. We would, therefore, examine the

 principles of competence-competence with reference to the

 legislation, that is, the Arbitration Act . 84. Section 16(1) of the Arbitration Act accepts and empowers the

 arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction including a ruling on

 the objections, with respect to all aspects of non-arbitrability

 including validity of the arbitration agreement. A party opposing

 arbitration, as per sub-section (2), should raise the objection to

 jurisdiction of the tribunal before the arbitral tribunal, not later than 123 the submission of statement of defence. However, participation in

the appointment procedure or appointing an arbitrator would not

preclude and prejudice any party from raising an objection to the

jurisdiction. Obviously, the intent is to curtail delay and expedite

appointment of the arbitral tribunal. The clause also indirectly

accepts that appointment of an arbitrator is different from the issue

and question of jurisdiction and non-arbitrability. As per sub-section

(3), any objection that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope

of its authority should be raised as soon as the matter arises.

However, the arbitral tribunal, as per sub-section (4), is

empowered to admit a plea regarding lack of jurisdiction beyond

the periods specified in sub-section (2) and (3) if it considers that

the delay is justified. As per the mandate of sub-section (5) when

objections to the jurisdiction under sub-sections (2) and (3) are

rejected, the arbitral tribunal can continue with the proceedings

and pass the arbitration award. A party aggrieved is at liberty to file

an application for setting aside such arbitral award under Section

34 of the Arbitration Act. Sub-section (3) to Section 8 in specific

terms permits an arbitral tribunal to continue with the arbitration

proceeding and make an award, even when an application under

sub-section (1) to Section 8 is pending consideration of the 124 court/forum. Therefore, pendency of the judicial proceedings even

 before the court is not by itself a bar for the arbitral tribunal to

 proceed and make an award. Whether the court should stay

 arbitral proceedings or appropriate deference by the arbitral

 tribunal are distinctly different aspects and not for us to elaborate

 in the present reference. 85. Section 34 of the Act is applicable at the third stage post the award

 when an application is filed for setting aside the award. Under

 Section 34, an award can be set aside – (i) if the arbitration

 agreement is not valid as per law to which the party is subject; (ii) if

 the award deals with the disputes not contemplated by or not

 falling within the submission to arbitration, or contains a decision

 on the matter beyond the scope of submission to arbitration; and (iii) when the subject matter of the dispute is not capable of

 settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force.

 Thus, the competence - competence principle, in its negative

 effect, leaves the door open for the parties to challenge the

 findings of the arbitral tribunal on the three issues. The negative

 effect does not provide absolute authority, but only a priority to the

 arbitral tribunal to rule the jurisdiction on the three issues. The 125 courts have a ‘second look’ on the three aspects under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act.68 86. The courts at the referral stage do not perform ministerial

 functions. They exercise and perform judicial functions when they

 decide objections in terms of Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration

 Act. Section 8 prescribes the courts to refer the parties to

 arbitration, if the action brought is the subject of an arbitration

 agreement, unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration

 agreement exists. Examining the term ‘prima facie’, in Nirmala J.

 Jhala v. State of Gujarat and Another,69 this Court had noted: 87. Prima facie examination is not full review but a primary first review

 to weed out manifestly and ex facie non-existent and invalid

 arbitration agreements and non-arbitrable disputes. The prima

 facie review at the reference stage is to cut the deadwood and trim

 off the side branches in straight forward cases where dismissal is

 barefaced and pellucid and when on the facts and law the litigation

 must stop at the first stage. Only when the court is certain that no

 valid arbitration agreement exists or the disputes/subject matter

 are not arbitrable, the application under Section 8 would be

 rejected. At this stage, the court should not get lost in thickets and

 decide debatable questions of facts. Referral proceedings are

70 The European Convention on International Commercial Arbitration appears to recognise the prima
facie test in Article VI (3): 71 (2017) EWHC 44 (Comm.) 128 Section 18(3) . It remains for consideration whether it
 should do so as a matter of discretion.”

 Appropriate at this stage would be a reference to the

 judgment of the Delhi High Court in NCC Ltd. v. Indian Oil

 Corporation Ltd.,72 wherein it has been held as under: 72 Arbitration Petition No. 115 of 2018, decided on 08.02.2019 129 88. The nature and facet of non-arbitrability could also determine the

 level and nature of scrutiny by the court at the referral stage.

 Stravos Brekoulakis has differentiated between contractual

 aspects of arbitration agreement which the court can examine at

 referral stage and jurisdictional aspects of arbitration agreement

 which he feels should be left to the arbitral tribunal. John J.

 Barcelo III, referring to some American decisions had divided the

 issue of non-arbitrability into procedural and substantive

 objections. The procedurals are ‘gateway questions’ which would

 presumptively be for the arbitrator to decide at least at the first

 stage. In the Indian context, we would respectfully adopt the three

 categories in Boghara Polyfab Private Limited. The first category

 of issues, namely, whether the party has approached the

 appropriate High Court, whether there is an arbitration agreement

 and whether the party who has applied for reference is party to

 such agreement would be subject to more thorough examination in

 comparison to the second and third categories/issues which are

 presumptively, save in exceptional cases, for the arbitrator to

 decide. In the first category, we would add and include the

 question or issue relating to whether the cause of action relates to

 action in personam or rem; whether the subject matter of the 130 dispute affects third party rights, have erga omnes effect, requires

centralized adjudication; whether the subject matter relates to

inalienable sovereign and public interest functions of the State; and

whether the subject matter of dispute is expressly or by necessary

implication non-arbitrable as per mandatory statue(s). Such

questions arise rarely and, when they arise, are on most occasions

questions of law. On the other hand, issues relating to contract

formation, existence, validity and non-arbitrability would be

connected and intertwined with the issues underlying the merits of

the respective disputes/claims. They would be factual and disputed

and for the arbitral tribunal to decide. We would not like be too

prescriptive, albeit observe that the court may for legitimate

reasons, to prevent wastage of public and private resources, can

exercise judicial discretion to conduct an intense yet summary

prima facie review while remaining conscious that it is to assist the

arbitration procedure and not usurp jurisdiction of the arbitral

tribunal. Undertaking a detailed full review or a long-drawn review

at the referral stage would obstruct and cause delay undermining

the integrity and efficacy of arbitration as a dispute resolution

mechanism. Conversely, if the court becomes too reluctant to

intervene, it may undermine effectiveness of both the arbitration 131 and the court. There are certain cases where the prima facie

 examination may require a deeper consideration. The court’s

 challenge is to find the right amount of and the context when it

 would examine the prima facie case or exercise restraint. The

 legal order needs a right balance between avoiding arbitration

 obstructing tactics at referral stage and protecting parties from

 being forced to arbitrate when the matter is clearly non-arbitrable. 73 89. Accordingly, when it appears that prima facie review would be

 inconclusive, or on consideration inadequate as it requires detailed

 examination, the matter should be left for final determination by the

 arbitral tribunal selected by the parties by consent. The underlying

 rationale being not to delay or defer and to discourage parties from

 using referral proceeding as a rue to delay and obstruct. In such

 cases a full review by the courts at this stage would encroach on

 the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal and violate the legislative

 scheme allocating jurisdiction between the courts and the arbitral

 tribunal. Centralisation of litigation with the arbitral tribunal as the

 primary and first adjudicator is beneficent as it helps in quicker and

 efficient resolution of disputes. 73 Ozlem Susler – ‘The English Approach to Competence-Competence’ 132 90. The Court would exercise discretion and refer the disputes to

 arbitration when it is satisfied that the contest requires the arbitral

 tribunal should first decide the disputes and rule on non-

 arbitrability. Similarly, discretion should be exercised when the

 party opposing arbitration is adopting delaying tactics and

 impairing the referral proceedings. Appropriate in this regard, are

 observations of the Supreme Court of Canada in Dell Computer

 Corporation v. Union des consommateurs and Olivier

 Dumoulin,74 which read: 91. We would now examine Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. As

 noticed above sub-section (6-A) was inserted by the Act 3 of 2016

 with retrospective effect from 23rd October, 2015 and omitted by

 Act 33 of 2019. Section 11 (6) requires the court to appoint an

 arbitrator on an application made by a party. Section (6-A) to Section 11 stipulates that the court shall, at the stage of

 appointment under sub-section (4), (5) or (6), confine itself to the

 examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. Sub-

 section (6-A) was omitted by Act 33 of 2019, but the omission is in

 view of the introduction of a new regime of institutionalised

 arbitration as per the report of the committee headed by Justice B.

 N. Srikrishna, dated 30.07.2017 which records for the reason of

 recommending the omission as: 92. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word

‘existence’ in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation

(whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the

question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls

outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On

jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to differentiate

between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an

arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can draw support from

the plain meaning of the word “existence’. However, it is equally 136 possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an

agreement has no existence if it is not enforceable and not

binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid

agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating the

parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation

would be contrary to the contextual background including the

definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A

reasonable and just interpretation of ‘existence’ requires

understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant legal

norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration

agreement. An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning

unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the

terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an

unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold

that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal.

A void and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do

anything. Existence of an arbitration agreement means an

arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory

requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and

when it is enforceable in law. We would proceed to elaborate and

give further reasons: 137 Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration

agreement does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy

mandatory legal requirements. Invalid agreement is no agreement. 138 (ii) The court at the reference stage exercises judicial

powers. ‘Examination’, as an ordinary expression in common

parlance, refers to an act of looking or considering something

carefully in order to discover something (as per Cambridge

Dictionary). It requires the person to inspect closely, to test

the condition of, or to inquire into carefully (as per Merriam-

Webster Dictionary). It would be rather odd for the court to

hold and say that the arbitration agreement exists, though ex

facie and manifestly the arbitration agreement is invalid in

law and the dispute in question is non-arbitrable. The court is

not powerless and would not act beyond jurisdiction, if it

rejects an application for reference, when the arbitration

clause is admittedly or without doubt is with a minor, lunatic

or the only claim seeks a probate of a Will. (iii) Most scholars and jurists accept and agree that the

existence and validity of an arbitration agreement are the

same. Even Starvos Brekoulakis accepts that validity, in

terms of substantive and formal validity, are questions of

contract and hence for the court to examine. 139 (iv) Most jurisdictions accept and require prima facie

review by the court on non-arbitrability aspects at the referral

stage. (v) Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act are

complementary provisions as was held in Patel Engineering

Ltd.. The object and purpose behind the two provisions is

identical to compel and force parties to abide by their

contractual understanding. This being so, the two provisions

should be read as laying down similar standard and not as

laying down different and separate parameters. Section 11 does not prescribe any standard of judicial review by the

court for determining whether an arbitration agreement is in

existence. Section 8 states that the judicial review at the

stage of reference is prima facie and not final. Prima facie

standard equally applies when the power of judicial review is

exercised by the court under Section 11 of the Arbitration

Act. Therefore, we can read the mandate of valid arbitration

agreement in Section 8 into mandate of Section 11 , that is,

‘existence of an arbitration agreement’. (vi) Exercise of power of prima facie judicial review of

existence as including validity is justified as a court is the first 140 forum that examines and decides the request for the referral. Absolute “hands off” approach would be counterproductive

 and harm arbitration, as an alternative dispute resolution

 mechanism. Limited, yet effective intervention is acceptable

 as it does not obstruct but effectuates arbitration. (vii) Exercise of the limited prima facie review does not in

 any way interfere with the principle of competence–

 competence and separation as to obstruct arbitration

 proceedings but ensures that vexatious and frivolous matters

 get over at the initial stage. (viii) Exercise of prima facie power of judicial review as to

 the validity of the arbitration agreement would save costs

 and check harassment of objecting parties when there is

 clearly no justification and a good reason not to accept plea

 of non-arbitrability. In Subrata Roy Sahara v. Union of

 India,75 this Court has observed: It is suggested that the legislature should consider
 the introduction of a “Code of Compulsory Costs”. (ix) Even in Duro Felguera, Kurian Joseph, J., in

 paragraph 52, had referred to Section 7(5) and thereafter in

 paragraph 53 referred to a judgment of this Court in M.R.

 Engineers and Contractors Private Limited v. Som Datt

 Builders Limited76 to observe that the analysis in the said

 case supports the final conclusion that the Memorandum of

 Understanding in the said case did not incorporate an

 arbitration clause. Thereafter, reference was specifically

 made to Patel Engineering Ltd. and Boghara Polyfab

 Private Limited to observe that the legislative policy is

 essential to minimise court’s interference at the pre-arbitral

 stage and this was the intention of sub-section (6) to Section

 11 of the Arbitration Act. Paragraph 48 in Duro Felguera
76 (2009) 7 SCC 696 142 specifically states that the resolution has to exist in the

arbitration agreement, and it is for the court to see if the

agreement contains a clause which provides for arbitration of

disputes which have arisen between the parties. Paragraph

59 is more restrictive and requires the court to see whether

an arbitration agreement exists – nothing more, nothing less.

Read with the other findings, it would be appropriate to read

the two paragraphs as laying down the legal ratio that the

court is required to see if the underlying contract contains an

arbitration clause for arbitration of the disputes which have

arisen between the parties - nothing more, nothing less.

Reference to decisions in Patel Engineering Ltd. and

Boghara Polyfab Private Limited was to highlight that at

the reference stage, post the amendments vide Act 3 of

2016, the court would not go into and finally decide different

aspects that were highlighted in the two decisions. (x) In addition to Garware Wall Ropes Limited case, this

Court in Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited and

Hyundai Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd., both decisions of

three Judges, has rejected the application for reference in

the insurance contracts holding that the claim was beyond 143 and not covered by the arbitration agreement. The court felt

 that the legal position was beyond doubt as the scope of the

 arbitration clause was fully covered by the dictum in Vulcan

 Insurance Co. Ltd. Similarly, in M/s. PSA Mumbai

 Investments PTE. Limited, this Court at the referral stage

 came to the conclusion that the arbitration clause would not

 be applicable and govern the disputes. Accordingly, the

 reference to the arbitral tribunal was set aside leaving the

 respondent to pursue its claim before an appropriate forum. (xi) The interpretation appropriately balances the allocation

 of the decision-making authority between the court at the

 referral stage and the arbitrators’ primary jurisdiction to

 decide disputes on merits. The court as the judicial forum of

 the first instance can exercise prima facie test jurisdiction to

 screen and knockdown ex facie meritless, frivolous and

 dishonest litigation. Limited jurisdiction of the courts ensures

 expeditious, alacritous and efficient disposal when required

 at the referral stage. 93. Section 43(1) of the Arbitration Act states that the Limitation Act, 1963 shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to 144 court proceedings. Sub-section (2) states that for the purposes

of the Arbitration Act and Limitation Act, arbitration shall be

deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in Section 21. Limitation law is procedural and normally disputes, being

factual, would be for the arbitrator to decide guided by the facts

found and the law applicable. The court at the referral stage can

interfere only when it is manifest that the claims are ex facie

time barred and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute. All other

cases should be referred to the arbitral tribunal for decision on

merits. Similar would be the position in case of disputed ‘no

claim certificate’ or defence on the plea of novation and ‘accord

and satisfaction’. As observed in Premium Nafta Products

Ltd., it is not to be expected that commercial men while

entering transactions inter se would knowingly create a system

which would require that the court should first decide whether

the contract should be rectified or avoided or rescinded, as the

case may be, and then if the contract is held to be valid, it would

require the arbitrator to resolve the issues that have arisen. 94. We would also resolve the question of principles

applicable to interpretation of an arbitration clause. This is 145 important and directly relates to scope of the arbitration

 agreement. In Premium Nafta Products Ltd., on the question

 of interpretation and construction of an arbitration clause, it is

 observed: 95. Accordingly, we hold that the expression ‘existence of

 an arbitration agreement’ in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act,

 would include aspect of validity of an arbitration agreement,

 albeit the court at the referral stage would apply the prima facie

 test on the basis of principles set out in this judgment. In cases

 of debatable and disputable facts, and good reasonable

 arguable case, etc., the court would force the parties to abide

 by the arbitration agreement as the arbitral tribunal has primary

 jurisdiction and authority to decide the disputes including the

 question of jurisdiction and non-arbitrability. 148 96. Discussion under the heading ‘Who decides

Arbitrability?’ can be crystallized as under: on the scope of judicial review by the court while

 deciding an application under Sections 8 or 11 of the Arbitration Act , post the amendments by Act 3 of 2016

 (with retrospective effect from 23.10.2015) and even

 post the amendments vide Act 33 of 2019 (with effect

 from 09.08.2019), is no longer applicable. (b) Scope of judicial review and jurisdiction of the

 court under Section 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act is

 identical but extremely limited and restricted. (c) The general rule and principle, in view of the

 legislative mandate clear from Act 3 of 2016 and Act 33

 of 2019, and the principle of severability and

 competence-competence, is that the arbitral tribunal is

 the preferred first authority to determine and decide all

 questions of non-arbitrability. The court has been

 conferred power of “second look” on aspects of non-

 arbitrability post the award in terms of sub-clauses (i), 149 (ii) or (iv) of Section 34(2)(a) or sub-clause (i) of Section 34(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act. (d) Rarely as a demurrer the court may interfere at

the Section 8 or 11 stage when it is manifestly and ex

facie certain that the arbitration agreement is non-

existent, invalid or the disputes are non-arbitrable,

though the nature and facet of non-arbitrability would,

to some extent, determine the level and nature of

judicial scrutiny. The restricted and limited review is to

check and protect parties from being forced to arbitrate

when the matter is demonstrably ‘non-arbitrable’ and to

cut off the deadwood. The court by default would refer

the matter when contentions relating to non-arbitrability

are plainly arguable; when consideration in summary

proceedings would be insufficient and inconclusive;

when facts are contested; when the party opposing

arbitration adopts delaying tactics or impairs conduct of

arbitration proceedings. This is not the stage for the

court to enter into a mini trial or elaborate review so as

to usurp the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal but to 150 affirm and uphold integrity and efficacy of arbitration as

 an alternative dispute resolution mechanism. 97. Reference is, accordingly, answered. 98. In view of the aforesaid findings and ratio, we dispose

 of the Civil Appeal and the Special Leave Petitions in the

 following manner: Civil Appeal No. 2402 of 2019 Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 11877 of 2020 151 In view of the fact that the Arbitral Tribunal is hearing the

 matter, we leave the issue of arbitrability to the Tribunal to decide

 and come to a conclusion on the same. Further, the parties are at

 liberty to challenge the award if they are not satisfied with the

 same in this regard. ......................................J.
 (N.V. RAMANA)

 ......................................J.
 (SANJIV KHANNA)

 ......................................J.
 (KRISHNA MURARI)
NEW DELHI; DECEMBER 14, 2020. 1. I have had the advantage of reading in advance the opinion

 of my learned Brother Justice Sanjiv Khanna. The present

 matters deal with a very important aspect in the arbitration

 jurisprudence in this country, which necessitate a separate

 opinion. 2. Recently, Mr. Fali S. Nariman, in one of his lectures had

 alluded that the development of arbitration in India is not

 attributable to the success in arbitration, rather to the

 failures of the Court. This reflects an uncomfortable

 relationship which arbitration has had with litigation all

 these days. The judicial hesitancy of the courts to be more

 accommodative towards the tribunal and the need for 154 respecting arbitral awards requires this Court to extensively

 reflect and bring the Court’s jurisprudence in tune with the

 liberal intention sought to be furthered post the 2015

 amendment to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). 3. Before we delve into the merits of the matters, we need to

 have a brief reference to the facts which are necessary for

 the disposal of these cases. As all the cases are similar, we

 take facts from Civil Appeal No. 2402 of 2019, to indicate

 the history of this litigation and the questions which arise

 from the same. In the year 2006, appellants (tenants)

 entered into a tenancy agreement with the predecessor title

 holder with respect to certain buildings. Clause 23 of the

 agreement contained a dispute resolution clause. In the

 year 2012, the tenancy was attorned to the respondent,

 after which the appellants started paying monthly rent to

 the respondent (landlord). On 24.08.2015, the respondent

 (landlord) wrote a letter seeking vacant possession of the

 property as the period of lease was expiring on 01.02.2016.

 Appellants (tenants) did not vacate. Aggrieved, the 155 respondent (landlord) invoked the arbitration under the

 dispute resolution mechanism provided under the contract.

 On 28.04.2016, the respondent filed the present Section 11 petition before the Calcutta High Court for appointment of

 an arbitrator. On 07.09.2016, the High Court passed the

 impugned order appointing an arbitrator, after rejecting the

 appellants objections on the arbitrability of the dispute. 4. Aggrieved by the same, the appellants (tenants) have

 approached this Court in the present proceedings, on the

 reason that, after the judgment of the High Court was

 rendered appointing the arbitrator, this Court in Himangni

 Enterprises v. Kamaljeet Singh Ahluwalia , (2017) 10

 SCC 706 [hereinafter referred as ‘Himangni Enterprises’]

 held that where the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 applied

 between the landlord and tenant disputes between the said

 parties would not be arbitrable. 5. When Civil Appeal No. 2402 of 2019 was listed for hearing

 on 28.02.2019, then the said matter was referred to a three­

 Judge Bench, with following observations: 156 6. The reference order primarily indicates that there are two

 substantive issues to be settled by this Court herein,

 namely: 7. Before we analyze the issue, we need to observe arguments

 canvassed by the counsel appearing for the parties, who set

 the tone for these cases. 8. Learned senior counsel, Mr. K. V. Vishwanathan, appearing

 for the petitioners in SLP (C.) No. 5605­5606 of 2019,

 submitted as under: 9. Learned Senior advocate, Mr. Nakul Dewan on behalf of the

 Respondent in SLP (C.) No. 5605­5606 of 2019, argued that: 10. Learned senior counsel, Mr. Manoj Swarup on behalf of the

 Petitioner in SLP (C.) No. 11877 of 2020, has submitted

 that: 159 11. Learned senior counsel, Mr. Gopal Shankarnarayan on

 behalf of the Petitioners in SLP (C.) No. 5605­5606 of 2019,

 submitted that: A cursory reading of the legislative history points to the fact 162 that the intention of the legislature is to make the regime

 ‘pro­arbitration’. Whenever this Court has afforded a

 contrary view, there has been a trend to undo the changes

 to bring it in line with the international standards prevailing

 in certain arbitration havens such as Singapore, London

 and Hong Kong. 17. Before we move to the analysis of the case, we need to

 briefly describe the structure of the Arbitration Act, 1996 with subsequent amendments. The set­up of both

 international and domestic arbitration is contained under

 PARTS I, IA and II of the Act. The preamble to the Act

 provides that it was enacted with a view to have uniformity

 of the law of arbitral procedures to establish a fair and

 efficient mechanism to resolve disputes. 18. Section 2 provides for the definition of ‘arbitration

 agreement’ which is to be interpreted in terms of Section 7 of the Act, which states as under: (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of
 an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form
 of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing.

 (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is
 contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or
 other means of telecommunication including
 communication through electronic means which
 provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and
 defence in which the existence of the agreement is
 alleged by one party and not denied by the other.

 (5) The reference in a contract to a document
 containing an arbitration clause constitutes an
 arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing
 and the reference is such as to make that
 arbitration clause part of the contract. 19. Section 5 emphasizes a very important principle, that

 judicial interference in arbitral proceedings should be

 minimum and should be limited to instances where it is

 specifically provided for under the Act. Although the

 provision envisages a wide amplitude, various judgments of 164 this Court have restricted the utility of same. [ ICICI Bank

 Ltd. v. Sidco Leathers Ltd. , (2006) 10 SCC 452] 20. Section 8 of the Act in its present and earlier form, are

 extracted below: that an application
 has been made
 (3) Notwithstanding
 under sub­section (1)
 that an application
 and that the issue is
 pending before the has been made
 judicial authority, an under sub­section (1)
 arbitration may be and that the issue is
 commenced or pending before the
 continued and an judicial authority, an
 arbitral award made arbitration may be
 commenced or
 continued and an
 arbitral award
 made. Under the old Arbitration Act, 1940 , the Court had the

discretion in referring the parties to arbitration, however

such discretion is done away with after the coming into

force of the 1996 Act. The Arbitration and Conciliation Act,

1996 does not, in specific terms, exclude any category of 167 disputes—civil or commercial—from arbitrability. Intrinsic

legislative material is in fact to the contrary. Section 8 contains a mandate that where an action is brought before a

judicial authority in a matter which is the subject of an

arbitration agreement, the parties shall be referred by it to

arbitration, if a party to or a person claiming through a

party to the arbitration agreement applies not later than the

date of submitting the first statement on the substance of

the dispute. The only exception is where the authority finds,

prima facie, that there is no valid arbitration agreement. Section 8 contains a positive mandate and obligates the

judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration in terms of

the arbitration agreement. While dispensing with the

element of judicial discretion, the statute imposes an

affirmative obligation on every judicial authority to hold

down parties to the terms of the agreement entered into

between them to refer disputes to arbitration. Article 8 of

the UNCITRAL Model Law enabled a court to decline to refer

parties to arbitration if it is found that the arbitration

agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being 168 performed. Section 8 of the Act has made a departure from

 the UNCITRAL law which is indicative of the wide reach and

 ambit of the statutory mandate. Section 8 uses the

 expansive expression “judicial authority” rather than “court”

 and the words “unless it finds that the agreement is null

 and void, inoperative and incapable of being performed” do

 not find place in Section 8 . 21. On the 2015 amendment to Section 8 , Justice Indu

 Malhotra, comments as under: 22. Section 11 of the Act in its present and earlier forms, are

 extracted below: the parties. (2) Subject to sub­
(2) Subject to sub­ (2) Subject to sub­
 section (6), the parties section (6), the parties
section (6), the parties
 are free to agree on a are free to agree on a
are free to agree on a
 procedure for procedure for
procedure for
 appointing the appointing the
appointing the
 arbitrator or arbitrator or
arbitrator or
 arbitrators. arbitrators. arbitrators. (b) the two appointed the purposes of this
 from the other
 arbitrators fail to Act: sub­section shall alone
High Court. section (10) arise in an institution designated
 international by the Supreme
 commercial
 Courtmay appoint an
 arbitration, the
 arbitrator of a
 reference to the
 “Supreme Court or, as nationality other than
 the case may be, the the nationalities of the
 High Court” in those parties where the
 sub­sections shall be parties belong to
 construed as a different nationalities. reference to the
 “Supreme Court”; and (11) Where more than
 one request has been (b) Where the matters made under sub­
 referred to in sub­ section (4) or sub­
 sections (4), (5), (6), section (5) or sub­
 (7), (8) and sub­section
 section (6) to different
 (10) arise in any other
 arbitral institutions,
 arbitration, the
 reference to “the the arbitral institution 176 Supreme Court or, as to which the request
the case may be, the has been first made
High Court” in those under the relevant
sub­sections shall be sub­section shall be
construed as a competent to appoint. referred to in clause (e) sections (4), (5), (6)
of sub­section (1) of and (8) arise in an section 2 is situate, international
and where the High commercial arbitration
Court itself is the or any other
Court referred to in arbitration, the
that clause, to that reference to the
High Court. arbitral institution in
 those sub­sections
(13) An application shall be construed as
made under this a reference to the
section for
 arbitral institution
appointment of an
 designated under sub­
arbitrator or
arbitrators shall be section (3­A). determination of the determine the fees of
fees of the arbitral the arbitral tribunal
tribunal and the
 and the manner of its
manner of its payment
 payment to the
to the arbitral tribunal,
the High Court may arbitral tribunal
frame such rules as subject to the rates
may be necessary, specified in the Fourth
after taking into Schedule. consideration the rates
specified in the Fourth Explanation.— For the
Schedule. removal of doubts, it is
 hereby clarified that
Explanation.—For the this sub­section shall
removal of doubts, it is not apply to
hereby clarified that international
this sub­section shall
 commercial arbitration
not apply to
 and in arbitrations
international
commercial arbitration (other than
and in arbitrations international
(other than commercial
international arbitration) where
commercial parties have agreed
arbitration) in case for determination of
where parties have fees as per the rules of
agreed for an arbitral institution. determination of fees
as per the rules of an
arbitral institution. 178 23. Section 12 imposes, upon a person approached to be an

 arbitrator, the obligation to disclose to the parties in writing

 any circumstance that may give rise to justifiable doubts as

 to his independence and impartiality. An arbitrator can be

 challenged if there are circumstances that give rise to

 justifiable doubts about his independence and impartiality

 or if he does not possess the qualifications agreed to by the

 parties, but such challenge can be made only for reasons

 which the party challenging becomes aware of after the

 appointment has been made. Section 13 speaks of the

 challenge procedure. It states that the parties are free to

 agree on such a procedure. Failing that, the party who

 makes the challenge must within fifteen days after

 becoming aware of the constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal

 or of any of the circumstances mentioned in Section 12 ,

 send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge to

 the Arbitral Tribunal. Unless the challenged arbitrator

 withdraws or the other party to the arbitration agrees to the

 challenge, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide upon the

 challenge and if the challenge is not successful it shall 179 continue the arbitration proceedings and make an award. That award can be sought to be set aside under Section 34 . 24. Section 16 empowers the Arbitral Tribunal to rule on its

 own jurisdiction. Sub­section (1) of Section 16 is relevant,

 and reads thus: 25. Section 34 of the Act is as under: basic notions of
the date on which (2A) An arbitral morality or justice. The intention of the legislators to provide for Section 34 in

its present form, is to have a limited review of the award 188 instead of a full­fledged appeal process. A party intending to

object to an award, is first required to file an application

under Section 34 (1) indicating the objections along with the

copy of an award and other necessary documents, which are

required as proof to satisfy grounds provided under Section

34(2)(a) and (b) of the Act. Such complete petition is

required to be filed within the time period prescribed under Section 34 (3) of the Act, failing which the appeal is

rendered nugatory. The limitation prescribed under Section

34(3) is bound with the right to file objections itself. The

objections filed under Section 34 must be relatable to the

limited grounds provided under Section 34 (2) of the Act. It

is the legislative intention to provide for numerous

limitations under Section 34 of the Act, which are required

to be strictly adhered to so as to make Indian arbitration

time­bound and commercially prudent to opt for the same. Section 37 of the Act, provides for limited appeal against the Section 34 order, as well as against certain other specified

orders. 189 26. It is important to observe Section 45 of the Act, which

 provides a judicial authority with the power to refer parties

 to arbitration when Part II of the Act applies, in the following

 manner: 27. The present structure of arbitration is such that Courts are

 to assist and support arbitration and leave the substantive

 part of adjudication to the arbitral tribunal. Some scholars

 have suggested that the judicial mechanism that comports

 with the rule of law may be fundamentally at odds with non­

 judicial/arbitral mechanism which is therefore less formal.

 But our understanding is that that the rule of law is less in

 tension with arbitration than critics imagine, because they

 both aim to serve the same goal­the pursuit of justice. 28. On a plain reading of the Act, whenever a dispute arises

 between parties, they are free to approach an appropriate

 judicial forum to get their dispute resolved. If the parties

 have contemplated an arbitration agreement, then they can

 approach a tribunal for getting the matter resolved. Once

 they choose the non­judicial method, a party aggrieved by

 the award, has a chance to approach judicial institutions

 under Section 34 and 37 (appeal jurisdiction), if the award

 is violative of the grounds provided thereunder. 29. With this understanding, we need to have regards to certain

 precedents of this Court, in order to understand the 192 dispute. The case, which started the debate was the case of Konkan Railway Corpn. Ltd. v. Mehul Construction Co. ,

(2000) 7 SCC 201, wherein a Bench of three Judges of this

Court, emphasized the utility of ‘Chief Justice’ as occurring

under the earlier Section 11 , to come to a conclusion that

the power of appointment of an arbitrator was an

administrative action. The proposition laid down in the

aforesaid case, was confirmed by a Constitution Bench of

this Court in Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. v. Rani

Construction (P .) Ltd., (2002) 2 SCC 388. It may be

relevant to quote the following observation by this Court: 30. Again, the aforesaid decision came to be referred to a seven­

 Judge Bench in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd.,

 (2005) 8 SCC 618, wherein majority was penned by Justice

 P.K. Balasubramanyan and the minority dissent was by

 Justice C. K. Thakker. 31. The majority opinion, concluded that the power of reference

 under Section 11 is a judicial function for the following

 reasons: 32. The minority view posits that the function of the Chief

 Justice was administrative rather than judicial, for the

 following reasons: 33. In Shin­Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd. ,

 (2005) 7 SCC 234, this Court decided the ambit of Section

 45 of the Act, which relates to the provision for referring

 parties to arbitration under the New York Convention. While

 deciding the scope of Section 45 of the Act, Justice Y. K.

 Sabharwal, as he then was, held in his opinion that a

 judicial forum seized of the mater should fully rule on the

 validity and existence of the agreement, before referring the

 same to the arbitration. The prima facie standard, which the

 Court found to be gaining popularity across the globe, could

 not be applied as the statutory language of Section 45 , as it

 existed, did not support such a standard. It may be

 necessary to observe certain passage from Justice

 Sabharwal’s opinion: 22.2. The issues (second category) which the
Chief Justice/his designate may choose to
decide (or leave them to the decision of the
Arbitral Tribunal) are: 204 22.3. The issues (third category) which the
Chief Justice/his designate should leave
exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are: 23. It is clear from the scheme of the Act as
explained by this Court in SBP & Co. [(2005) 8
SCC 618] , that in regard to issues falling
under the second category, if raised in any
application under Section 11 of the Act, the
Chief Justice/his designate may decide them,
if necessary, by taking evidence. Alternatively,
he may leave those issues open with a
direction to the Arbitral Tribunal to decide the
same. If the Chief Justice or his designate
chooses to examine the issue and decides
it, the Arbitral Tribunal cannot re­examine
the same issue. The Chief Justice/his
designate will, in choosing whether he will 205 decide such issue or leave it to the Arbitral
 Tribunal, be guided by the object of the Act
 (that is expediting the arbitration process with
 minimum judicial intervention). Where
 allegations of forgery/fabrication are made in
 regard to the document recording discharge of
 contract by full and final settlement, it would
 be appropriate if the Chief Justice/his
 designate decides the issue.”
 (emphasis supplied) 36. In Chloro Controls India Private Ltd. v. Severn Trent

 Water Purification Inc. , (2013) 1 SCC 641, this Court had

 to expound the scope of Section 45 in a multi­party

 arbitration. The Court held as under: 37. In Arasmeta Captive Power Company Private Limited v.

 Lafarge India Pvt. Ltd. , (2013) 15 SCC 414, this Court

 had to answer the issue concerning the conflict between Chloro Controls Case (supra) and SBP Case (supra), which

 the Court formulated in the following manner: Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618 and, in resistance,
 Mr Harish Salve and Dr A.M. Singhvi,
 learned Senior Counsel for the respondent,
 while defending the view expressed later by
 the three­Judge Bench, have laid immense
 emphasis on consistency and certainty of
 law that garner public confidence, especially 207 in the field of arbitration, regard being had to
 the globalisation of economy and stability of
 the jurisprudential concepts and pragmatic
 process of arbitration that sparkles the soul
 of commercial progress. We make it clear
 that we are not writing the grammar of
 arbitration but indubitably we intend, and
 we shall, in course of our delineation,
 endeavour to clear the maze, so that
 certainty remains “A Definite” and finality is
 “Final”.”

The Court answering the question, answered thus: 38. This Court in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port ,

 (2017) 9 SCC 729, held as under: 39. However, in Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. v.

 Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited, (“Oriental

 Insurance” ) (2018) 6 SCC 534, a three­Judge Bench of this

 Court, following the decision in Vulcan Insurance v.

 Maharaj Singh , (1976) 1 SCC 943, dismissed an

 application under Section 11 of the Act after examining the

 arbitrability of the dispute. It may be noted that the Court

 did not answer the question as to the power of the Court

 under Section 11 of the Act in this case. 40. Similarly, in United India Insurance Company Limited v.

 Hyundai Engineering and Construction Company

 Limited, (“Hyundai Engineering” ) (2018) 17 SCC 607, the

 Court examined the arbitrability of the dispute as well as

 whether the dispute fell within the ambit of an excepted

 matter by placing heavy reliance on the decision

 in Oriental Insurance (supra). These two cases are, by

 necessary, implication to be restricted to the facts and

 circumstances of the case. 211 41. Further, in United India Insurance Company Limited v.

 Antique Art Exports Private Limited (“Antique Arts” ),

 (2019) 5 SCC 362, this Court, in a proceeding under Section

 11 of the Act, distinguished the holding in Duro

 Felguera (supra) on the grounds that the same was a mere

 general observation about the effect of the amended

 provisions and that the said decision was distinguishable on

 the facts of the case. The Court held that the power under Section 11 with the Chief Justice/ his designates is a

 judicial power and not an administrative function, therefore

 leaving some degree of judicial intervention. The Court went

 on to hold that when it comes to examining the prima facie

 existence of an arbitration agreement, it is always necessary

 to ensure that the dispute resolution process does not

 become unnecessarily protracted. On this basis, the Court,

 in a proceeding under Section 11 of the Act, analyzed the

 effect of the execution of a discharge voucher and the

 settlement of the claim by accord and satisfaction. On

 finding the claim to have been settled by accord and

 satisfaction, the Court held that there was no dispute under 212 the agreement to be referred to an arbitrator for

 adjudication. 42. In Mayavati Trading Pvt. Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb Burman ,

 (2019) 8 SCC 714, a Bench of three Judges, while overruling

 the Antique Arts Case (supra), held as under: What are the factors for deciding as to
whether there is an arbitration agreement is
the next question. The resolution to that is
simple—it needs to be seen if the agreement
contains a clause which provides for
arbitration pertaining to the disputes which
have arisen between the parties to the
agreement.***59. The scope of the power
under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was
considerably wide in view of the decisions
in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC
618 and National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1 SCC 267. This position continued till the
amendment brought about in 2015. After the
amendment, all that the courts need to see is
whether an arbitration agreement exists—
nothing more, nothing less. The legislative
policy and purpose is essentially to minimise
the Court's intervention at the stage of
appointing the arbitrator and this intention
as incorporated in Section 11 (6­A) ought to
be respected.”]. 11. We, therefore, overrule the judgment
in Antique Art Exports (P) Ltd. [United India
Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Antique Art Exports (P)
Ltd. , (2019) 5 SCC 362] as not having laid 214 down the correct law but dismiss this appeal
 for the reason given in para 3 above.” 43. From the study of the precedents, the following

 propositions, concerning Section 11 of the Act, are clear and

 binding: 44. Having observed the precedents holding the field in respect

 of Section 11 , we now come to an analysis of Section 8 . Section 8 of the Act applies, when a matter is brought by

 one of the parties before the Court, and the other party

 brings to the notice of the Court of existence of such

 arbitration agreement. Under these circumstances, the

 Court is obligated to refer a matter to arbitration, on

 satisfaction that a valid arbitration agreement exists 215 between the parties. The 2015 amendment clarified that the

 test to be utilized by the Court is on a prima facie basis. 45. The primary reason for the same, is the negative effect of

 Kompetenz Kompetenz under Section 16 , which mandates

 that the arbitral tribunal is required to first look into any

 objections as to the jurisdiction of the tribunal itself. It is

 due to the fact that parties may abuse and protract the

 proceedings if there is no gatekeeping mechanism, that the

 legislature has found a balance, wherein the Court is

 required to examine the validity of an arbitration agreement

 on a prima facie basis. 46. In this context, we need to examine the meaning of ‘validity

 of arbitration agreement’ as occurring under Section 8 of the

 Act. There is no doubt that ‘validity’ to be examined under Section 8(2) of the Act, could be interpreted to mean formal

 validity as expressed under Section 7 of the Act. Such an

 interpretation would operate as a full application of the

 negative facet of Section 16 , as the jurisdiction of the Court

 to step­in at the ­reference stage would be limited. However, 216 the burden of the precedents stops us from accepting such

 a narrow interpretation. 47. This brings us to the issue whether the issue of

 ‘arbitrability’ can be analyzed by the Courts under Section 8 or 11 of the Act? 48. There is no doubt that ‘arbitrability’ has acquired various

 meaning around the world. In this context, this Court is

 required to first identify the various meaning for the

 aforesaid term, in order to recognize its meaning in the

 Indian context. Outside the United States of America, the

 term “arbitrability” has a reasonably precise and limited

 meaning, relating to whether specific classes of disputes are

 barred from arbitration because of national legislation or

 judicial authority. In the United States of America,

 arbitrability also refers to the complicated balance between

 courts and arbitrators regarding who should be the initial

 decision­maker on issues such as the validity of the

 arbitration agreement. Out of the two meanings, we

 subscribe to the international flavor, which is one of the

 cherished legislative intentions, i.e., to bring the arbitration 217 act in tune with the global march. Having ascertained the

 meaning of arbitrability, we need to analyze whether

 arbitrability could be determined by the Court at the

 reference stage. 49. No doubt, arbitrability finds a close nexus with the validity

 of the arbitration agreement, yet we need to observe the

 unique nature of the arbitration agreement, which is a

 bundle of contractual and jurisdictional elements. Even if a

 Tribunal comes to an understanding that there exists a

 valid arbitration agreement, still it does not mean that

 certain subject matters are arbitrable per se. This

 distinction is required to be kept in mind. 50. Section 34 (2)(b) provides the statutory basis for objecting

 that an award which may not be capable of being settled by

 arbitration, or is against the public policy of India. The

 legislative intention of not arbitrating issues of public policy

 are intertwined with the fact that monopolies of the State

 activities should not be subject matter of a private tribunal,

 as the concerns of the State cannot not be dealt effectively.

 Further, an award, which has an erga omnes effect on third 218 parties, would not be in tune with the contractual nature of

 arbitration, which is binding on the consenting parties

 alone. However, this feature alone, does not explicitly

 mandate that the tribunal cannot first adjudicate a claim

 based on the public policy argument. 51. It is to be noted that whether a subject matter can or cannot

 be arbitrated should necessarily be dealt on a case to case

 basis, rather than a having a bold exposition that certain

 subject matters are incapable of arbitration. This case is one

 such example of over­broad ratio, expounded by this Court

 by laying that certain subject areas cannot be arbitrated per

 se. At this juncture, we may observe the case of The

 London Steamship Owners’ Mutual Insurance

 Association Ltd v The Kingdom of Spain and The

 French State, [2015] EWCA Civ 333. The case relates to an

 oil spill off the coast of Spain and France from a vessel

 named ‘The Prestige’, which resulted in the Government of

 Spain and France taking action against the Captain of the

 ship and other officers under the Spanish Criminal Code, as 219 well as instituting a case against the Owner to pay punitive

damages under the Spanish Penal Code. It may be noted

that the claim was also brought against the insurer of the

ship for indemnity. Those claims were based both on the

insurer's obligation to indemnify the owners against their

obligations under the International Convention on Civil

Liability for Oil Pollution Damage and on its obligation to

indemnify them against their independent liability for the

tortious acts of the master, chief officer and chief engineer.

The insurers took pre­emptive action by commencing

arbitral proceedings for declaratory relief: a declaration that

France and Spain were bound by the arbitration clause

provided in the insurers’ rules and that the insurers were

not liable under the underlying contract. The relief sought

was granted in favour of the insurers in the form of arbitral

awards. The insurers attempted to enforce the arbitral

awards in England before the judgment was rendered in the

Spanish legal proceedings. France and Spain opposed this

enforcement of the arbitral awards on various grounds. One

such reason, which was raised on behalf of Spain, was that 220 the matter was incapable of being resolved by arbitration.

The Court while dismissing the aforesaid objection, held

that: 52. To this extent, even this Court in Avitel Post Studioz

 Limited v. HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited, Civil

 Appeal No. 5145 of 2016 has held as under: 53. It is important to note that various countries have already

 allowed inter­partes arbitration with respect to in rem rights

 concerning intellectual property etc., through a statutory 222 framework. It is worthwhile to study the feasibility of the

 same, if we want to provide impetus to arbitration. 54. On a different note, we need to keep in mind that an

 arbitration agreement would, as a necessary implication,

 carry with it a presumption of a one­stop mechanism. When

 parties decide to enter into an arbitration agreement, they

 agree to take all their disputes before arbitration. This

 presumption, is a rebuttable presumption. Therefore, Section 8 and 11 has to be interpreted with sufficient

 strictness, wherein the jurisdiction of the Court to decide

 issues should be limited to those expressly provided by the

 law. 55. This Court has dealt with various judgments on the issue of

 arbitrability, which are required to be discussed at this

 point. The first case is of Booz Allen and Hamilton Inc. v.

 SBI Home Finance Ltd. , (2011) 5 SCC 532, wherein a

 Division Bench dealt with the ambit of Section 8 and 11 (prior to amendment), qua subject matter arbitrability. This

 Court observed as under: 223 XXXXXX 36. The well­recognised examples of non­
arbitrable disputes are: (i) disputes
relating to rights and liabilities which give
rise to or arise out of criminal offences; (ii) matrimonial disputes relating to
divorce, judicial separation, restitution of
conjugal rights, child custody; (iii)
guardianship matters; (iv) insolvency and
winding­up matters; (v) testamentary
matters (grant of probate, letters of
administration and succession
certificate); and (vi) eviction or tenancy
matters governed by special statutes 225 where the tenant enjoys statutory
 protection against eviction and only the
 specified courts are conferred jurisdiction
 to grant eviction or decide the disputes. The Court came to the aforesaid conclusion, of ascertaining

 certain subject matters as non­arbitrable, on two main

 reasons, (1.) that certain matters are excluded for

 examination by a private forum; (2) that in rem rights

 cannot be arbitrated. 56. In A. Ayysamy v. A. Paramsivam , (2016) 10 SCC 386, this

 Court had to deal with an issue concerning the arbitrability

 of fraud under the Act, prior to the 2015 amendment. The

 Court by two separate opinions delivered by Justice A. K.

 Sikri and Dr. D. Y. Chandrachud, has recognized that the

 Court at the reference stage, could classify a matter and

 accordingly refer a matter to arbitration which does not

 have serious allegations of fraud. 57. In Emaar MGF Land Limited v. Aftab Singh , (2019) 12

 SCC 751, this Court held that Consumer Protection Act cases are not arbitrable. On a perusal of the judgment, no

 doubt reliance was placed on the Booz Allen Case (supra) 226 and there is some discussion on the scope of Section 8 of

 the Arbitration Act. However, the thrust of the reasoning is

 not on the question of arbitrability, rather it was on the fact

 that the Consumer Protection Act , had an implied bar for

 referring a matter to arbitration, being a special legislation.

 The difference is subtle, yet it is required to be recognized

 that the Consumer Protection Act , impliedly barred the

 application of the Arbitration Act . 58. From a study of the above precedents, the following

 conclusion, with respect to adjudication of subject­matter

 arbitrability under Section 8 or 11 of the Act, are pertinent: 59. It may be noted that the Act itself does not exclude any

 category of disputes as being non­arbitrable. However, the

 Courts have used the ‘public policy’ reason to restrict

 arbitration with respect to certain subject matters. In line

 with the aforesaid proposition, the Courts have interfered

 with the subject matter arbitrability at the pre­reference

 stage. 60. However, post the 2015 amendment, the structure of the

 Act was changed to bring it in tune with the pro­arbitration

 approach. Under the amended provision, the Court can only

 give prima facie opinion on the existence of a valid

 arbitration agreement. In line with the amended language 228 and the statutory scheme, the examination of the subject

 matter arbitrability may not be appropriate at the stage of

 reference under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act. It is more

 appropriate to be taken up by the Court at the stage of

 enforcement under Section 34 of the Act. Having said so, in

 clear cases where the subject matter arbitrability is clearly

 barred, the Court can cut the deadwood to preserve the

 efficacy of the arbitral process. 61. At this stage a word of caution needs to be said for

 arbitrators. They have been given jurisdiction to decide on

 the subject matter arbitrability. They are required to identify

 specific public policy in order to determine the subject

 matter arbitrability. Merely because a matter verges on a

 prohibited territory, should not by in itself stop the

 arbitrator from deciding the matter. He/she should be

 careful in considering the question of non­arbitrability. 62. This brings us to the question of what prima facie case

 means, as is required to determine the non­existence of a

 valid arbitration agreement under Section 8 of the Act. The 229 meaning and scope of ‘prima facie’ has greatly varied in

 common law as well as the civil law systems. Immediately,

 at least two meanings can be attributed to this term. First,

 it means a party is said to have established a prima facie

 case when he has satisfied his burden of producing

 evidence. The second meaning postulates that a party has

 established a prima facie case only when he has made such

 a strong showing that he is entitled to a presumption in his

 favor. Shin­Etsu Case (supra), categorically laid that prima

 facie test is to be adopted under Section 45 of the Act (prior

 to the 2015 amendment). The Court was of the opinion that

 prima facie determination was seen as the view of Court,

 which can again be gone into by the Tribunal. 63. In Antique Arts (supra) (subsequently over­ruled on a

 different point), this Court while following New India

 Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Genus Power Infrastructure Ltd. ,

 (2015) 2 SCC 424 held that that a bald plea of fraud,

 coercion, duress or undue influence is not enough and the 230 party who sets up a plea, must establish the same on a

 prima facie basis by placing material before the Chief

 Justice/his designate. This categorically establishes that

 prima facie case is relatable to establishment of initial

 presumption, rather than an evidentiary standard. 64. The 246th Law Commission Report, in respect of scope and

 nature of pre­arbitral judicial intervention, states as under: Unfortunately, however, the question
before the Supreme Court was framed in
terms of whether such a power is a
“judicial” or an “administrative” power —
which obfuscates the real issue
underlying such
nomenclature/description as to—
— the scope of such powers — i.e. the
scope of arguments which a court (Chief
Justice) will consider while deciding
whether to appoint an arbitrator or not —
i.e. whether the arbitration agreement
exists, whether it is null and void,
whether it is voidable, etc.; and which of
these it should leave for decision of the
Arbitral Tribunal. — the nature of such intervention — i.e.
would the court (Chief Justice) consider
the issues upon a detailed trial and
whether the same would be decided
finally or be left for determination of the
Arbitral Tribunal. 30. After a series of cases culminating in
the decision in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618 , the Supreme
Court held that the power to appoint an
arbitrator under Section 11 is a “judicial”
power. The underlying issues in this
judgment, relating to the scope of
intervention, were subsequently clarified
by Raveendran, J. in National Insurance 232 Co. Ltd. V. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd. ,
(2009) 1 SCC 267,
….. ….. 32. In relation to the nature of
intervention, the exposition of the law is
to be found in the decision of the
Supreme Court in Shin­Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. V. Aksh Optifibre Ltd. , (2005) 7 SCC
234] , (in the context of Section 45 of the
Act), where the Supreme Court has ruled
in favour of looking at the
issues/controversy only prima facie. 33. It is in this context, the
Commission has recommended
amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
1996. The scope of the judicial
intervention is only restricted to
situations where the court/judicial
authority finds that the arbitration
agreement does not exist or is null and
void. Insofar as the nature of
intervention is concerned, it is
recommended that in the event the
court/judicial authority is prima facie
satisfied against the argument
challenging the arbitration agreement,
it shall appoint the arbitrator and/or
refer the parties to arbitration, as the
case may be. The amendment
envisages that the judicial authority
shall not refer the parties to
arbitration only if it finds that there
does not exist an arbitration
agreement or that it is null and void. If 233 the judicial authority is of the opinion
 that prima facie the arbitration
 agreement exists, then it shall refer
 the dispute to arbitration, and leave
 the existence of the arbitration
 agreement to be finally determined by
 the Arbitral Tribunal. However, if the
 judicial authority concludes that the
 agreement does not exist, then the
 conclusion will be final and not prima
 facie. The amendment also envisages
 that there shall be a conclusive
 determination as to whether the
 arbitration agreement is null and void. In the event that the judicial authority
 refers the dispute to arbitration and/or
 appoints an arbitrator, under Sections
 8 and 11 respectively, such a decision
 will be final and non­appealable. An
 appeal can be maintained under Section 37 only in the event of refusal
 to refer parties to arbitration, or
 refusal to appoint an arbitrator.”
 (emphasis supplied) 65. The difference of statutory language provided under the

 amended Section 8 , which states ‘refer the parties to

 arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration

 agreement exists’ in comparison with the amended Section

 11(6A) , creates disparities which need to be ironed out.

 While the Court in the Shin­Etsu case ( supra) and the 234 Duro Felguera case (supra) recommended for finding a

 valid arbitration agreement on a prima facie basis qua Section 11 , however, the negative language used under the

 amended Section 8 mandates for referring a matter to

 arbitration unless the Court prima facie finds that no valid

 arbitration exists. It is to be noted that a finding of non­

 existence of arbitration agreement is final subject to the

 appeal process only, without further scope for arbitration

 tribunal to decide anything as there can be no further

 reference. If that be the case, then the usage of phrase

 ‘prima facie’ stands at odds with the established precedents

 on prima facie standards. In this context, we can only stress

 on the requirement of quality legislative drafting protocols to

 eliminate such complications. 66. From the aforesaid discussion, we can conclude that the

 respondent/defendant has to establish a prima facie case of

 non­existence of valid arbitration agreement, wherein it is to

 be summarily portrayed that a party is entitled to such a

 finding. If a party cannot satisfy the Court of the same on

 the basis of documents produced, and rather requires 235 extensive examination of oral and documentary production,

 then the matter has to be necessarily referred to the

 Tribunal for full trial. Such limited jurisdiction vested with

 the Court, is necessary at the pre­reference stage to

 appropriately balance the power of the Tribunal with

 judicial interference. 67. The amendment to the aforesaid provision was meant to cut

 the dead wood in extremely limited circumstances, wherein

 the respondent is able to ex­facie portray non­existence of

 valid arbitration agreement, on the documents and the

 pleadings produced by the parties. The prima facie view,

 which started its existence under Section 45 through Shin­

 Etsu Case (supra), has been explicitly accommodated even

 under domestic arbitration by the 2015 amendment with

 appropriate modifications. 68. Before we part with this aspect, it was extensively argued

 before us that the test for the Court is to see whether a

 party is able to establish a ‘good arguable case’ for

 establishing the existence of the arbitration agreement.

 However, the statutory language under Sections 8 and 11 236 emphasizes on the threshold requirement for a party for

 establishing the opposite. No doubt, the aforesaid approach

 may have merits. However, if the ‘good arguable case

 standard’ is integrated for a party requiring to show non­

 existence, then the same would amount to judicial activism.

 Such attempts to integrate alien formulations into the Act,

 which has already suffered sufficient judicial subjectivism,

 needs to be dissuaded. 69. Having established the threshold standard for the Court to

 examine the extent of validity of the arbitration agreement,

 as a starting point, it is necessary to go back to Duro

 Felguera (supra), which laid down: At the cost of repetition, we note that Section 8 of the Act

 mandates that a matter should not be referred to an

 arbitration by a court of law unless it finds that prima facie

 there is no valid arbitration agreement. The negative

 language used in the Section is required to be taken into

 consideration, while analyzing the Section. The Court

 should refer a matter if the validity of the arbitration

 agreement cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, as

 laid down above. Therefore, the rule for the Court is ‘when

 in doubt, do refer’. 70. Moreover, the amendment to Section 8 now rectifies the

 short­comings pointed out in the Chloro Control Case

 (supra) with respect to domestic arbitration. Jurisdictional

 issues concerning whether certain parties are bound by a

 particular arbitration, under group­company doctrine or

 good faith, etc., in a multi­party arbitration raises

 complicated factual questions, which are best left for the 239 tribunal to handle. The amendment to Section 8 on this

 front also indicates the legislative intention to further

 reduce the judicial interference at the stage of reference. 71. Courts, while analyzing a case under Section 8 , may choose

 to identify the issues which require adjudication pertaining

 to the validity of the arbitration agreement. If the Court

 cannot rule on the invalidity of the arbitration agreement on

 a prima facie basis, then the Court should stop any further

 analysis and simply refer all the issues to arbitration to be

 settled. 72. Coming to the scope of judicial interference under Section

 11 , the 246th Law Commission Report noted that: 73. We are cognizant of the fact that the statutory language of Section 8 and 11 are different, however materially they do

 not vary and both Sections provide for limited judicial

 interference at reference stage, as enunciated above. 74. In line with our holding on question no. 1, generally it would

 not have been appropriate for us to delve into the second

 question. However, considering that a question of law has

 been referred to us, we agree with the conclusions reached

 by our learned brother. 75. Before we part, the conclusions reached, with respect to

 question no. 1, are: