Scamsters in Madhya Pradesh’s Khajuraho planted fake QR codes over legitimate ones to redirect payments into their accounts, in what appears to be a new method of conducting fraud, at over a dozen shops in the city, India Today reported . The fraud was discovered after a customer paying at a medical store noticed that the scanned QR code displayed the name ‘Chhotu Tiwari’ instead of the establishment’s name. Later, the owner discovered three masked men swapping the QR code during the previous night upon checking the CCTV footage.

Besides this store, other local shops and a nearby petrol pump were also targeted . While one of the suspects in the case had been identified and arrested within 72 hours of the scam being reported, two more individuals are yet to be arrested, The Times of India reported .

India saw approximately 18,167 cases of QR code-based fraud worth Rs 22.22 crore in FY 2024-25, less than half of what was reported during the previous financial year, disclosed the Minister of State for Finance, Pankaj Chaudhary in the winter session of the Parliament. This data, however, only accounts for incidents reported up to September 2024. Notably, the prevalence of QR code-based frauds has been escalating in India, with the highest number (39,638) totalling Rs 56.34 crore reported in FY 2023-24 as of the last four years.

Further, a new variant of the phishing scam titled “quishing” has been gaining ground of late. Within this, scammers deploy fake QR codes to lure people to fraudulent websites, steal their bank account details, and siphon off money, Hindustan Times reported . As countermeasures, fintech platforms have accelerated security efforts like real-time fraud detection and two-factor authentication. Entities like the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and other banks have conducted awareness campaigns through radio, SMS, and other public outreach initiatives to prevent cybercrime. Previously, the RBI had also advised users to exercise caution during online banking activities, highlighting that transactions involving the receipt of money do not require scanning of barcodes or QR codes. However, while these and other mechanisms are in place to minimise instances of digital fraud, the loss of funds through such scams may have adverse mental health impacts on victims, who in certain cases give up hopes of retrieving their money.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event