MANMOHAN, J: HEARING ON 29TH MAY, 2017 4. On 29th May, 2017, this Court after hearing both the parties
orally observed that the defendants can air stories containing facts
relating to investigation into Mrs. Sunanda Pushkar's death, but cannot
call the plaintiff a criminal or condemn him as guilty. This Court had CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 2 of 61 also stated that the defendants must bring down the rhetoric. At that
stage, Mr. Sandeep Sethi, learned senior counsel appearing for the
defendants had stated that he would advise his clients accordingly.
Consequently, the Court did not pass any formal order. 5. During the pendency of the proceedings, the plaintiff filed
another interlocutory application under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC being I.A. 8809/2017 praying for the following reliefs:- HEARING ON 04TH AUGUST, 2017 6. The aforesaid application was filed on the ground that despite
the assurance given by learned senior counsel for defendants on 29th
May, 2017, the defendants continued to engage in defaming and
maligning the plaintiff. Learned senior counsel for plaintiff urged that
the Court must direct the defendants not to use the expression "murder
of Sunanda Pushkar" as it is yet to be established by a competent
Court that her death was murder and to ensure that the trial, if any,
was not prejudiced. Learned senior counsel for plaintiff had further
alleged that the journalists of the defendant channel were 'haunting
him' and virtually coercing him into making a statement. 7. On the other hand, learned senior counsel for defendants had
stated that the defendants stood by what was assured by him in Court
and they had not called the plaintiff either a murderer or any names in
any of the news broadcast. 8. Since the allegation of the learned senior counsel for plaintiff
was that plaintiff was being coerced into making a statement, this
Court orally observed that any person including an accused has a right
to silence under the Indian Constitution. As the next date of hearing
was 16th August, 2017, this Court did not pass any formal order. RELIEFS IN I.A. 10378/2017 IDENTICAL TO THOSE SOUGHT IN I.A. 8809/2017 9. On 7th September, 2017, the plaintiff filed another interlocutory
application under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2 CPC being I.A. 10378/2017
praying for the identical reliefs sought for in I.A. 8809/2017. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF 10. Mr. Salman Khurshid, learned senior counsel for plaintiff, while
arguing the aforesaid three applications, stated that the plaintiff is an
eminent personality in Indian and International Politics. He stated that
the plaintiff is aggrieved by the defamatory remarks made by
defendants against him. Some of the remarks of the defendants
described as defamatory by learned senior counsel for the plaintiff are
as follows:- You asked everybody to leave Leela Hotel Shashi
 Tharoor." c) "You are exposed today Shashi Tharoor." d) "But I know he (Shashi Tharoor) is a Hypocrite,
 Duplicitous man." e) "Sunanda wanted to speak out that is also on Sunanda
 Murder Tapes today and it is proven on the Sunanda
 Murder Tapes that she was stopped forever as the needle
 of suspicion points closer and closer and closer to the
 inconsistencies of one duplicitous man called Shashi
 Tharoor." f) "Well, he (ST) is an unprincipled criminal masquerading
 as a politician." g) "The person trying to throttle her (Late Ms. Sunanda
 Pushkar) is Shashi Tharoor. I mean let's be clear here,
 you know." h) "Don't be a coward Shashi Tharoor." "Come on, face me
 you coward." i) "I think all of us agree that as of now the nation wants to
 know why Shashi Tharoor is the only man happy with the
 way the Delhi Police is unprogressing the case." 11. He pointed out that not a single allegation had been made by the
investigating authorities against the plaintiff and the plaintiff had not
even been implicated or named as an accused or even a suspect in the
criminal proceedings. He stated that the investigation into the death of
the deceased was still in progress and the investigating agency was yet
to file the police report/charge sheet under Section 173 CPC. 12. Learned senior counsel for plaintiff further stated that defendant
no.1 had a history of broadcasting incorrect and unsubstantiated news
reports and had even been penalized and reprimanded for it by Indian
Regulatory authorities and by appropriate International Bodies. Some
of the instances of the misconduct by defendant no.1 mentioned by
learned senior counsel for plaintiff are as follows:- 13. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff stated that in the present
case on the first date of hearing, i.e., 29th May, 2017, the plaintiff did
not press for any interim order as the learned senior counsel appearing
for the defendants had given an assurance that no further damning and
defaming comments would be made. Mr. Salman Khurshid stated that
the assurance worked as the defendant media house was now careful CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 7 of 61 in how it reported about the case and the vitriol displayed earlier
against the plaintiff was now missing but, he stated, some of its
reporters were not exercising the same care while tweeting. He also
pointed out that in their reply to the I.A. No. 8809 of 2017, the
defendants had denied giving any such assurance. This, according to
him, clearly demonstrated the mala fide conduct of the defendants. 14. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff submitted that in
Naveen Jindal Vs. M/s. Zee Media Corporation Limited &Anr.,
(2015) 219 DLT 605; Sidhartha Vashisht Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ),
AIR 2010 SC 235 the Courts have held that the power to order restrain
of publication in the media would clearly encompass the stage when
the criminal case against the accused is at the preliminary enquiry or
investigation stage. He also submitted that the Court deprecated the
practice of the Anchors putting leading questions to panelists in order
to elicit a specific kind of response against Naveen Jindal. The Court
categorically rejected the argument of Zee Media that the public is
interested in the private lives of public figures and the public figures
should be open to such criticism and remarks. The portion of the
judgment in the case of Naveen Jindal Vs. M/s. Zee Media
Corporation Limited & Anr.,(Supra) relied upon by the learned
counsel for plaintiff is reproduced hereinbelow:- 15. Learned senior counsel for the plaintiff pointed out that a
Coordinate Bench of this Court in Kartongen Kemi Och Forvaltning
AB & Ors. Vs. State through CBI, 2004 (72) DRJ 693 has held that
presenting half-baked and presumptive facets of investigation involves
substantial risk to the fairness of the trial. 16. He submitted that the Supreme Court in Sewakram Sobhani Vs.
R.K. Karanjia, Chief Editor, Weekly Blitz &Ors. , (1981) 3 SCC 208
has held that a journalist is in no better position than any normal
citizen and a journalist has no special privileges attached to him.
According to him, the Supreme Court further held that while reporting
on public figures, journalists have to undertake a higher degree of
care, circumspection and responsibility. 17. In view of the aforesaid, learned senior counsel for plaintiff
sought for an appropriate interim injunction, restraining the defendants
from making any defamatory allegations, insinuations, opinions,
casting aspersions, encouraging third parties to make allegations or
repeating the allegations of such third parties etc. about the plaintiff in
relation to the death of his wife which is under investigation. 18. Mr. Salman Khurshid clarified that the plaintiff does not seek a
blanket gag order and does not expect the defendants, not to
investigate/report fairly and impartially on matter of public importance
or interest and on true and established facts reported by Courts of law
or police. He, however, prayed that the defendants must not involve
in rhetorical assertions and the defendants must respect plaintiff's
'Right to be left alone'/'Right to Silence'. 19. He stated that since, the defendants had neither regretted nor
taken back the allegations made over such a long period, there must be
higher level of restraint even in reporting third party statements so as
not to insinuate against the plaintiff by associations. He also prayed
that the defendants must explicitly disassociate themselves from
veracity/authenticity of such reports by inserting a disclaimer. He
pointed out that it has been repeatedly held by Courts that it is no
defence to say that the defendant heard the defamatory remarks from a
third party and was merely repeating such allegations. According to
him, repeating allegations of a third party also amounts to defamation. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANTS 20. Per contra, Mr. Sandeep Sethi, learned senior counsel for the
defendants stated that the defendant no. 1 is a journalist of
considerable repute and commanding immense respect. He pointed
out that the defendant no. 1 had been awarded the prestigious Ramnath
Goenka Award for excellence in journalism among other awards and
he had been instrumental in breaking many stories of public interest CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 11 of 61 such as the Commonwealth Games scam; the Kargil for Profit scam;
and the 2G scam. 21. He denied that the defendant no. 1 had a history of broadcasting
incorrect and unsubstantiated news reports. He stated that the
defendant no. 1 has been a fearless journalist and reporter and the
incidents cited by the plaintiff were completely unrelated to the
present case and that too without revealing the full and correct facts.
His response to the incidents highlighted by the plaintiff is reproduced
hereinunder:- The matter related to reporting court proceedings in pending
 criminal trials. The defendant no. 1 broke the story on the 2G
 Scam in November 2010. c) No specific direction was passed against the defendant no. 1
 with regard to alleged leakage of a secret defence letter as the CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 12 of 61 complaint was against the broadcaster. The plaintiff has
 suppressed that three NBA member channels, i.e., CNN IBN,
 Times Now and NDTV had carried news reports on the alleged
 leak based on a news report by the Press Trust of India. The
 NBSA merely issued a warning to all the channels. d) Defendant no. 1 was not the reporter in the programme
 regarding Jasleen Kaur. It was an interview by a Times Now
 reporter Ms. Pooja. No directions or observations were made
 against the defendant no. 1. e) Mr. Sharad Shah who had time and again singled out Times
 Now had filed the said complaint with regard to Sunanda
 Pushkar case. No specific directions or strictures were passed
 against the defendant no. 1. The subject matter of the
 programme was covered by the national media and a
 comparative statement with other channels was given to the
 NBSA. NBSA closed the complaint by advising the broadcaster
 to exercise care and caution while reporting about matters under
 investigation and also decided to draw up guidelines for
 reporting matters under investigation. f) The Order by Of-Com, U.K. is not at all relevant to the present
 matter. The incident was a debate on militants, Sayed
 Salauddin and Hafiz Sayed. Pakistan blacked out Home
 Minister Rajnath Singh's address at the SAARC Home
 Ministers' meet in Islamabad. The defendant no. 1 debated on
 Mr. Nawaz Sharif using his U.N. Speech to describe Burhan
 Wani as a peace icon. He stated that the defendant no. 1 had CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 13 of 61 only exposed the hypocrisy of the pro-Pakistan brigade in India. 22. Mr. Sandeep Sethi contended that the plaintiff, an elected
representative of the people, was expected to set examples of
impeccable standards of propriety and a high degree of transparency,
accountability and morality. He stated that the safety of common man
was of grave public concern, especially given the mysterious death of
the deceased in a secured five-star hotel, which sent across a chilling
message and hence warranted media coverage. 23. He emphasised that the defendants' news reports had
highlighted fresh evidence in relation to the deceased's death on 17 th
January, 2014 and pointed out serious irregularities and unusual delay
in concluding the police investigation. He laid stress on Delhi Police
file noting which highlighted glaring shortcomings in investigation. 24. Mr. Sandeep Sethi stated that there were the following material
omissions and inconsistencies in the Police statements given by
plaintiff and Mr. Narayan, Personal Assistant to the plaintiff and
deceased, as well as, the telephonic conversions between Republic TV
reporter (Ms. Prema Sridevi) and the deceased :- 25. Mr. Sethi suggested that the scene of crime had been
compromised. He referred to the statement of Rajan Rao, who was an
alleged friend of plaintiff and Vikas Ahlawat, his OSD, to show that
he admitted visiting the place of occurrence on 17 th January, 2014
immediately after the demise of Ms. Sunanda Pushkar. 26. Mr. Sandeep Sethi emphasised that Dr. Sudhir Gupta,
(Professor & HOD, AIIMS, who had performed autopsy on the CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 15 of 61 deceased) in interviews given to the defendants on 9th May, 2017 and
31st July, 2017 had stated that he was under tremendous political
pressure to pass-off the death of deceased as natural and the said fact
had also been recorded in his police statement. 27. Mr. Sandeep Sethi stated that the fact that the plaintiff had tried
to bring to the notice of AIIMS the contents of email dated 26th
January, 2014 sent by one Dr. Rajeev Bhasin that as the deceased did
not have food for over three days and only had coconut water, the
same could have slowed down her heart rate and if the deceased took
Alprax, it could have contributed to the slowing down of her heart rate
and made it difficult for her to call for help was suspicious. 28. Mr. Sandeep Sethi contended that the impugned stories aired by
the defendants were true and asserted that the defendants would plead
and prove the allegations therein. 29. He stated that the nine remarks highlighted by the plaintiff's
senior counsel were not derogatory. He stated that the plaintiff had
handpicked and had selectively quoted them without providing the
context. The relevant portion of the tabular chart tendered by learned
senior counsel for the defendants is reproduced hereinbelow:- 3. You are exposed today The said comments were made based on
 Shashi Tharoor....(Page the suspicious facts emanating from the
 50 of plaint) taped conversations between deceased,
 Republic TV reporter, Prema Sridevi
 and plaintiff's man Friday i.e. Narayan
 Singh. 4. But I know he (Shashi The portion highlighted in red font has
 Tharoor) is a hypocrite, been omitted by the Advocates for the
 duplicitous man. He is plaintiff. The said portion was also
 not going to do any of
 used in the broadcast. it. "His wife is found
 dead in a Hotel room. As per the transcript of broadcast
 The investigation leades mentioned at p. 52 of Plaint, the word
 nowhere in 3 years 3
 MAN was not used in the broadcast. investigative authorities making no head
 way in the matter, the Plaintiff did not
 seem to be concerned about the same. 5. For every question we The portion highlighted in red font has
 ever asked on Tharoor, been omitted by the Advocates for the
 we were told to believe Plaintiff. The said portion was also
 all was well. The fact
 used in the broadcast. is that all was far from
 well. Sunanda wanted The said comments were made based on
 to speak out that is also the facts emanating from Tape 1 at p.
 on Sunanda Murder
 261 of documents enclosed with the WS
 Tapes today and it is
 proven on the Sunanda of Defendant No. 1 in Part III Vol. 4. Murder Tapes that she The said conversion happened on 16
 was stopped forever as January 2017. the needle of suspicion
 points closer and closer TAPE 1
 and closer to the
 Phone rings twice
 inconsistencies of one
 Sunanda Pushkar answers call
 duplicitous man called
 PREMA SRIDEVI: Hello
 Shashi Tharoor. I have
 SUNANDA PUSHKAR: Hello (in a
 just five questions for
 muffled voice)
 him tonight.... (Page
 PREMA SRIDEVI: Am I talking to
 54-55 of Plaint)
 Sunanda Pushkar? SUNANDA PUSHKAR: Yes (in a
 muffled voice)
 PREMA SRIDEVI: Hi Sunanda, this is
 Prema Sridevi calling from TIMES
 NOW. Basically, Arnab had given me
 your number and he wanted me to talk
 to you. SUNANDA PUSHKAR: Can you hear
 me? Connect him. PREMA SRIDEVI: I am actually near
 the Leela Hotel. I wanted to meet you. SUNANDA PUSHKAR: No, I am
 actually very sick. I just rushed from
 the hospital and there's pest control
 going on at home. So I am really sick. PREMA SRIDEVI: Ok. Errrm. I am
 so sorry to hear that. Are you at the
 Leela now? Or are you..... SUNANDA PUSHKAR: I am at the
 Leela now darling (unclear)
 PREMA SRIDEVI: Can I just drop in
 for some time? Because he (Arnab)
 wanted me to meet you and talk to you
 for some time. SUNANDA PUSHKAR: Yes, yes. I
 would like to talk about it myself. PREMA SRIDEVI: Yes....err.....I..... I'll
 just come in. Where exactly are you? Which floor? SUNANDA PUSHKAR: I am on the 9th
 floor. PREMA SRIDEVI: 9th floor. Ok ok. I'll be there. SUNANDA PUSHKAR: What time? PREMA SRIDEVI: I'm just right outside
 Leela. I'll hardly take 10 minutes. SUNANDA PUSHKAR: Ok
 PREMA SRIDEVI: Ok.Bye 6. ....Now we are told that
 The portion highlighted in red font has
 he is putting out a tweet
 been omitted by the Advocates for the
 and he is 'It's an Plaintiff. The said portion was also
 exasperating farrago of
 used in the broadcast. distortions,
 misrepresentations and The said comments were made after the
 outright lies being Plaintiff had put out a tweet at 9.18 CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 21 of 61 broadcast by an P.M. on 8 May 2017 against the
 unprincipled showman Defendant No. 1, which read as: 7. ....Im so amazed. Im so The portion highlighted in red font has
 amazed. She is saying been omitted by the Advocates for the
 she is feeling sick. She Plaintiff. The said portion was also
 was not saying that she
 used in the broadcast. was sick enough of
 dying. For God's sake The said facts were mentioned by the
 don't be ridiculous now. Defendant No. 1 based on the facts
 And she says in one
 emanating from Tape 1 at p. 261 of
 phone call in fact that if
 you remember the documents enclosed with the WS in Part
 conversation there III Vol. 4, as mentioned in serial no. 11
 Smrita, when she says above and Tape 15 at p. 277 of
 that Arnab has asked documents enclosed with WS of
 me to speak to you she Defendant no. 1 in Part III Vol. 4, as
 actually says connect mentioned in serial no. 8 above.
 him on the line she is
 that keen on give us
 story and she says
 where are you? How
 often, you've been a
 journalist for more than
 2 decades Smrita. When does the person
 say when are you going
 to come? When the
 person is really keen to
 be saying something. The person trying to CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 23 of 61 throttle her (late Mrs.
 Sunanda Pushkar) is
 Shashi Tharoor. I mean
 let's be clear there, you
 know. (Page 64 of
 Plaint) 8. ....How can a lady who The said comments were made as
 is lying motionless or despite being called upon by the
 sleeping or not even Defendant No. 1 to present his side of
 responding tell
 the story, the Plaintiff had failed to do
 somebody to go and get
 her clothes? How is the same. that possible Shashi
 Tharoor? Tell me now. Answer my question? investigative authorities having made no
 the only man happy
 head way in the matter, the Plaintiff did CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 24 of 61 with the way the Delhi not seem to be concerned about the
 Police is unprogressing same. 30. Mr. Sandeep Sethi stated that the plaintiff had sought to
selectively target the defendants as the murder of the deceased was
widely reported by several media houses and the plaintiff having
acquiesced to the same cannot singularly target the defendants for
reporting the death of deceased as a case of murder. 31. Learned senior counsel for the defendants stated that the
plaintiff harboured personal animosity against the defendants since
2010, as defendant no. 1 had probed the alleged misuse of office by
the plaintiff to ensure that INR 70 crores, equivalent to 19% equity in
a IPL Kochi franchise was paid to the deceased consequent to which
the plaintiff was reportedly asked to resign. 32. Mr. Sandeep Sethi stated that the defendant no. 1 had been
cautious and had acted as per statement made by him while reporting
the death of deceased. In support of his contention, he referred to the
following remarks of the defendant no. 1 made in various broadcasts
dated- (8 May 2017)-".....And the fact is why is Shashi Tharoor so
disturbed? Have we said that he has carried out the murder?
No....",(13 May 2017) ".....I'm not saying that he's the killer. I'm not
saying he's the murderer. I'm not saying he's the chief conspirator" 33. Mr. Sandeep Sethi emphasised that the plaintiff was deliberately
misconstruing and giving colour to the statement made by him which
was given in good faith and also acted upon by the defendants as
repeatedly acknowledged by learned senior counsel for the plaintiff.
According to him, since the assurance had been acted upon, and since
the plaintiff also accepted the same, nothing remained in the
injunction applications. AFTER ARGUMENTS HAD CONCLUDED, A COPY OF THE
DIVISION BENCH JUDGEMENT IN THE CASE OF
SUBRAMANIAN SWAMY & ANR. VS. DELHI POLICE & ORS HANDED OVER 34. After the arguments had concluded, Mr. Salman Khurshid,
learned senior counsel for plaintiff mentioned the matter and handed
over a photocopy of the Division Bench judgment dated 26 th October,
2017 passed in the case of Subramanian Swamy & Anr. Vs. Delhi
Police & Ors , W.P.(Crl) 1938/2017. By the said judgment , a Division
Bench of this Court dismissed Dr. Swamy‟s Public Interest Litigation
seeking constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to
investigate the murder of Ms. Sunanda Pushkar on the ground that
there were no rare and compelled circumstances warranting such a
direction. The Division Bench in the aforesaid order also pointed out
that a previous writ petition being W.P.(C) 769/2015 seeking similar
relief had already been dismissed. COURT‟S REASONING
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION INCLUDES THE FREEDOM OF THE
MEDIA AND CONSTITUTES ONE OF THE ESSENTIAL
FOUNDATIONS OF OUR DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY. 35. Having heard learned counsel for parties, this Court is of the
view that Freedom of Expression and Democracy are the cornerstone
of our Constitution. The Constitution framers were of the opinion that
a well informed citizenry would govern itself better. The reality of
open and free public discussion and debate was considered central to
the operation of our democracy. In fact, freedom of expression as
defined in Article 19 of the Constitution does not specifically mention
freedom of press, but the Supreme Court in a catena of cases has held
that freedom of the media is included in Article 19(1)(a) and
constitutes one of the essential foundations of our democratic society
[See: Indian Express Newspaper (Bombay) (P) Ltd. Vs. Union of
India , (1985) 1 SCC 641]. THE CONSTITUTIONAL GUARANTEE OF FREE SPEECH DOES
NOT CONFER A RIGHT TO DEFAME PERSONS 36. The Constitutional guarantee of free speech does not confer a
right to defame persons and harm their reputations by false and
baseless allegations and by innuendoes and insinuations. Shakespeare
aptly summed up the importance of one‟s reputation and good name as
under:- 37. In India there can be criminal prosecution for defamation with
imprisonment for up to two years and a fine. There is also the civil
remedy of damages for defamation. THERE IS NEED TO STRIKE A BALANCE BETWEEN THE
COMPETING RIGHTS. 38. Thus, while free speech is a fundamental right, such right is
neither untrammeled nor superior to other fundamental rights in the
Constitution. It is hemmed in by restrictions in Article 19(2). Other
rights, such as the right to fair trial, may be antithetical to it in several
instances. There is need to strike a balance between the competing
rights. 39. The Apex Court while upholding the constitutional validity of Sections 499 and 500 IPC in Subramanian Swamy Vs. Union of
India, Ministry of Law and Others , (2016) 7 SCC 221 has held as
under:- 40. In the case of Surya Prakash Khatri Vs. Madhu Trehan , 2001
(92) DLT a Full Bench of this Court has held as under:- 41. This Court is of the opinion that it is the function and right of
the media to gather and convey information to the public and to
comment on the administration of justice, including cases before,
during and after trial, without violating the presumption of innocence.
In fact, presumption of innocence and a fair trial are at the heart of
criminal jurisprudence and in a way important facets of a democratic
polity that is governed by rule of law. Journalists are free to
investigate but they cannot pronounce anyone guilty and/or pre judge
the issue and/or prejudice the trial. The grant of the fairest of the
opportunity to the accused to prove his innocence is the object of
every fair trial. Conducting a fair trial is beneficial both to the accused
as well as to the society. A conviction resulting from unfair trial is
contrary to the concept of justice. 42. In Attorney General v. BBC: 1981 A.C 303 (HL), the
Attorney General had brought proceedings for an injunction to restrain
the defendants from broadcasting a programme dealing with matters
which related to an appeal pending before a Local Valuation Court on
the ground that the broadcast would amount to contempt of court. In CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 31 of 61 that context, (though the House of Lords held that contempt law did
not apply to the Valuation Court), Lord Scarman observed that
„administration of justice‟ should not at all be hampered with. Lord
Denning in the Court of Appeal had observed that professionally
trained Judges are not easily influenced by publications. But,
disagreeing with that view of Lord Denning, Lord Dilhorne stated (pp 335) in yet other oft-quoted passage as follows: 43. No doubt, as stated above, Lord Denning M.R. stated in the
Court of Appeal that Judges will not be influenced by the media
publicity, a view which was not accepted by the House of Lords. 44. In fact, Borrie and Lowe in their Commentary on Contempt of
Court (3rd Edn, 1996) state that Lord Denning‟s view is "more a
statement of policy rather than literal truth". 45. Cardozo, one of the greatest Judges of the American Supreme
Court, in his "Nature of the Judicial Process" (Lecture IV, Adherence
to Precedent. The Subconscious Element in the Judicial Process)
(1921) (Yale University Press) referring to the "forces which enter
into the conclusions of Judges" observed that "the great titles and
currents which engulf the rest of men, do not turn aside in their curse
and pass the Judges by". 46. Moreover, today massive flow of information is largely in only
one direction. According to Mr. Algore, the former Vice President of
the United States of America in his book The Assault on Reason, the
"well-informed citizenry" is in danger of becoming the "well-assumed
audience" and the republic of letters (newspapers) has been invaded
and occupied by the empire of television. An extract of the book is
reproduced hereinbelow:- 47. The Law Commission of India in its 200th Report on Trial By
Media Free Speech and Fair Trial under Criminal Procedure Code ,
1973 August 2006 has concluded, "The freedom of the media not
being absolute, media persons, connected with the print and electronic
media have to be equipped with sufficient inputs as to the width of the
right under Article 19(1)(a) and about what is not permitted to be
published under Article 19(2). Aspects of constitutional law, human
rights, protection of life and liberty, law relating to defamation and
Contempt of Court are important from the media point of view. It is
necessary that the syllabus in Journalism should cover the various
aspects of law referred to above. It is also necessary to have Diploma
and Degree Course in Journalism and the Law". 48. Consequently, a potential clash between freedom of expression
and laws or measures protecting reputation, which is the purpose of
the law of defamation, is inevitable. Legal systems of various
countries have dealt with the jurisdiction to grant interim injunctions
to restrain publication differently. RULE IN ENGLAND FOR AN INJUNCTION IS IT IS NOT
SUFFICIENT FOR A CLAIMANT TO ESTABLISH THAT THE
WORDS ARE CAPABLE OF BEING DEFAMATORY; THE COURT
MUST BE SATISFIED THAT IT WOULD INEVITABLY COME TO
THE CONCLUSION THAT THEY WERE DEFAMATORY. 49. According to The Common Law Library Gatley on Libel and
Slander, the jurisdiction to grant interim injunctions to restrain
publication of defamatory statements is "of a delicate nature", which
"ought only to be exercised in the clearest cases". That was stated by
Lord Esher M.R. in Coulson Vs. Coulson, (1887) 3 T.L.R. 846 and it
encapsulates the general approach of the English courts. The
reluctance to grant peremptory injunctions is rooted in the importance
attached to the right of free speech, and the consideration that damages
are liable to be an adequate remedy. Thus, the English Court will only
grant an interim injunction where: 50. The practice established in applications for interim injunction
by American Cyanamid v Ethicon,(1975) A.C. 396 of not considering
the merits of the case once it had been shown there was a serious issue
to be tried, but determining where the balance of convenience lay
between the parties as regards the imposition of a restraining order, CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 35 of 61 has been rejected as inappropriate in defamation cases [Trevor Vs.
Solomon, (1977) 248 E.G. 779 CA], as has the rights 'balancing'
approach which has been adopted in privacy and harassment cases
[Greene Vs. Associated Newspapers Ltd, (2005) Q.B. 972]. 51. The reason for this pre-condition was forcefully explained by
Lord Esher in the following passage in his judgment in Coulson Vs.
Coulson (supra): 52. Consequently, it is not sufficient for a claimant in England to
establish that the words are capable of being defamatory; the court
must be satisfied that it would inevitably come to the conclusion that
they were defamatory. 53. Another general rule in England is where the defendant
contends that the words complained of are true, and asserts that he will
plead and seek at trial to prove the defence of justification, the court
will not grant an interim injunction, unless, exceptionally, the court is
satisfied that such a defence is one that cannot succeed. This was the
decision in Bonnard v Perryman, (1891) 2 Ch. 269. Lord Coleridge
explained: 54. This statement of the law has been endorsed and applied
consistently since 1891. [See Fraser Vs. Evans, (1969) 1 QB 349;
Crest Homes Ltd. Vs. Ascott, (1980) FSR 396; Herbage Vs.
Pressdram Ltd., (1984) 1 WLR 1160; Holley Vs. Smyth, (1998) QB
726; Monson Vs. Tussauds Ltd, (1894) 1 QB 671; Burns Vs.
Associated Newspapers, (1926) 42 TLR 37; and Khashoggi Vs. IPC Magazines, (1986) 1 WLR 1412]. 55. According to Gatley on Libel and Slander, in recent times the
rigidity of the rule has been criticised as incompatible with the proper
application of European Convention on Human Rights and
Fundamental Rights (ECHR) law, which requires the court to strike a
balance between competing rights, notably Art.8 (respect for private
life) and Art.10 (freedom of expression). But though it has been
judged that it is not enough for a defendant in the face of a statement
of the claimant that the words are untrue merely to assert that the
words are true or to state that he intends to justify without identifying CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 37 of 61 the ambit or extent of that defence, the Court of Appeal in Greene Vs.
Associated Newspapers Ltd., (2004) EWCA (Civ.) 1462 has
unequivocally re-asserted the absolute nature of the rule in defamation
cases which it held was unaffected by the Human Rights Act 1998.
For the moment, therefore, the proposition that a claimant cannot
obtain an interim injunction to restrain the publication of defamatory
words in the face of a statement from the defendant, verified as true,
that he can and will justify the alleged libel, can be regarded as an
invariable rule, unless it is plain that the plea of justification is bound
to fail. The claimant need not state that he will justify the particular
words or allegation comprising the alleged libel; it is sufficient for him
to declare his intention to justify the core or sting of the alleged libel,
provided, of course, that the core or sting is a wider or more general
meaning than that conveyed by the particular matters described in the
words complained of, and is a meaning the words are capable of
bearing. 56. In England, injunctions on the ground of privacy/misuse of
private information have also been granted like in Campbell Vs.
Mirror Group Newspapers, (2004) 2 A.C. 457. A tabloid, has dubbed
the system of privacy injunction as 'cheater‟s charter'. RULE IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND 57. In Australia it has been said that the rule in Bonnard v
Perryman (supra) does not apply. But the rule has come under
scrutiny by the High Court in Australian Broadcasting Corp. Vs.
O'Neill, (2006) HCA 46 considering the legal principles applicable to CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 38 of 61 the grant of interim injunctions in defamation cases. The court
undertook an extensive review of both English and Australian case
law, demonstrating how the latter had absorbed in large measure the
reasoning behind the rule in Bonnard v Perryman (supra), that
freedom of speech was paramount, without converting it into a rigid
and inflexible maxim. The majority's opinion stands as under:- 58. However, Heydon J., in a powerful and polemical dissenting
judgment argued for the abandonment of the rule as being wholly
inappropriate in the modern world: 59. The position in New Zealand is colourably the same as in
England. RULE IN CANADA IS THAT INJUNCTIVE RELIEF TO RESTRAIN
ALLEGED DEFAMATION IS AN EXCEPTIONAL REMEDY THAT
IS TO BE GRANTED IN ONLY THE "RAREST AND CLEAREST OF
CASES" 60. In Canada, the rule in Bonnard v. Perrymen remains the
standard for granting interim injunctions. In Compass Group Canada
(Health Services) Ltd. v. Hospital Employees Union 2004 BCSC, 128
A.C.W.S. (3d) 578, the court affirmed that injunctive relief to restrain
alleged defamation is an exceptional remedy that is to be granted in
only the "rarest and clearest of cases". It further held that the burden
lay with the plaintiff to demonstrate that the material complained of
was so "manifestly defamatory that any jury verdict to the contrary CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 40 of 61 would be considered perverse by the Court of Appeal". 61. The high standard has been applied in Hutchens v.
SWCAM.COM 2011 ONSC 56, 196 A.C.W.S. (3d) 1131,where the
court noted that the "balance of convenience" factor that applies to the
usual application for an interim injunction does not apply to a plaintiff
who seeks to restrain allegedly defamatory speech. It required that for
an application for an interlocutory injunction to succeed, the
allegations must be impossible to justify. RULE IN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IS THAT EVERY
INACCURATE STATEMENT IS NOT ACTIONABLE UNLESS IT IS
MADE WITH MALICE, I.E. WITH ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE
FALSITY OF THE STATEMENT OR WITH RECKLESS DISREGARD
OF THE TRUE STATE OF AFFAIRS 62. The United States Supreme Court in its landmark decision in
New York Times v. Sullivan, 376 US 254 ruled that in the case of a
public official every inaccurate statement is not actionable unless it is
made with malice, i.e. with actual knowledge of the falsity of the
statement or with reckless disregard of the true state of affairs. The
reasoning is that erroneous statements are unavoidable in free debate
in a democracy and must be tolerated because debate on public issues
should be uninhibited, robust, and wide open and freedom of the press
must have "the breathing space it needs to survive". RULE IN INDIA

IN INDIA, THE COURTS HAVE THE POWER TO PASS PRE-
PUBLICATION OR PRE-BROADCASTING INJUNCTION OR
PRIOR RESTRAINT ORDER IN SUB-JUDICE MATTERS. THE
TWO-PRONGED TEST OF NECESSITY AND PROPORTIONALITY
HAVE TO BE SATISFIED BEFORE ORDERING POSTPONEMENT
OF PUBLICATION. MOREOVER, THE INJUNCTION ORDER
SHOULD ONLY BE PASSED IF REASONABLE ALTERNATIVE
METHODS OR MEASURES WOULD NOT PREVENT THE SAID
RISK. 63. In India, the Courts have the power to pass pre-publication or
pre-broadcasting injunction or prior restraint orders in sub-judice
matters if a Court is satisfied that the interest of justice so requires. 64. The prejudice that results from reporting has been taken into
account by the Indian Supreme Court in R.K. Anand Vs. Registrar,
Delhi High Court, (2009) 8 SCC 106 while explaining the meaning of
"trial by media" as under:- 65. In Jessica Lal murder case i.e., Manu Sharma Vs. State (NCT
of Delhi ) (2010) 6 SCC 1, the Supreme Court observed that an effort CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 42 of 61 should be made to maintain the distinction between trial by media and
informative media. The Apex Court also found that trial by media did,
though to a limited extent, affect the rights of the accused. The
relevant portion of the aforesaid judgment is reproduced hereinbelow:- 66. The Supreme Court in Reliance Petrochemicals vs. Proprietors
of Indian Express Newspapers Bombay , (1988) 4 SCC 592 observed
that the test for any preventive injunction against the press must be
"based on reasonable grounds for keeping the administration of
justice unimpaired" and that there must be reasonable ground to
believe that the danger apprehended is real and imminent. The Court
went by the doctrine of clear present and imminent danger. 67. Subsequently, the Supreme Court of India in Sahara India Real
Estate vs. SEBI , (2012) 10 SCC 603 held that prior restraint per se is
not unconstitutional, but it should be passed only when necessary to
prevent real and substantial risk to the fairness of the trial and that too
if reasonable alternative methods or measures such as change of venue
or postponement of trial will not prevent the said risk and when the
salutary effects of such orders outweigh the deleterious effects to the
free expression of those affected by the prior restraint. The necessity
and the proportionality test were summarised as under:- 68. In both Reliance Petrochemicals (supra) and Sahara India
Real Estate (supra), the Apex Court held that Courts have inherent
power to pass prior restraint injunction order in matters which are sub-
judice to safeguard fairness of trial and to prevent possible contempt. 69. In fact, the Press Council of India's Reference Guide on the
norms of journalistic conduct itself states, "in a conflict between the
fair trial and freedom of speech, fair trial has to necessarily prevail
because any compromise of fair trial for an accused will cause
immense harm and defeat the justice delivery system". ONE OF THE PERMISSIBLE HEADS OF RESTRICTIONS ON
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION IS DEFAMATION. FOR A CLAIM OF
DEFEMATION TO SUCCEED, A PUBLIC FIGURE HAS TO PROVE
ADDITIONALLY THAT THE REPRESENTATION WAS
PRECIPITATED BY MALICE 70. The Indian Constitution is not absolute with respect to freedom
of speech and expression, as enshrined in the First Amendment to the
American Constitution. One of the permissible heads of restrictions on
freedom of expression is defamation. As regards the essential
ingredients of defamation, Salmond has stated in The Law of Torts,
"The test of defamatory nature of a statement is its tendency of excite
against the plaintiff the adverse opinions or feeling of other persons.
The typical form of defamation is an attack upon the moral character
of the plaintiff attributing to him any form of disgraceful conduct". 71. In the context of public figures like the plaintiff, the Supreme
Court observed in Kartar Singh & Ors. Vs. State of Punjab , 1956
SCR 476 that "those who fill a public position must not be too thin
skinned in reference to comments made upon them. It would often
happen that observations would be made upon public men which they
know from the bottom of their hearts were undeserved and unjust; yet
they must bear with them and submit to be misunderstood for a time" 72. Consequently, as observed in Silkin v. Beaverbook Newspapers
Ltd. & Another, [1998] 1 W.L.R. 743, "the test to be applied in
respect of public life is that the crank, the enthusiast, may say what he
honestly thinks just as much as the reasonable man or woman who sits
on a jury." 73. The Supreme Court of India in R. Rajagopal v. State of Tamil
Nadu , (1994) 6 SCC 632 has ruled that no action for libel lies "even
where the publication is based upon facts and statements which are
not true, unless the public official establishes that the publication was
made (by the defendant) with reckless disregard for truth. In such a
case, it would be enough for the defendant (a member of the press or
the media) to prove that he acted after a reasonable verification of the
facts; it is not necessary to prove that what has been written is true". 74. The principle of privilege permits certain professions with a
degree of latitude in response to claims of defamation. In the case of
journalists, for example, they are provided some latitude (qualified
privilege) through the dilution of the 'truth' defence, in that they can
resist a claim for defamation on the ground that the statement or
publication is based on a reasonable verification of facts and that it
was not produced with a reckless disregard for truth or precipitated by
actual malice. COORDINATE BENCHES OF THIS COURT IN NAVEEN JINDAL
AND SWATANTER KUMAR HAVE GRANTED INJUNCTIONS IN
DEFAMATION SUITS. 75. Coordinate Benches of this Court in Naveen Jindal Vs. M/s.
Zee Media Corporation Limited & Anr.,(Supra) and Swatanter
Kumar Vs. The Indian Express Ltd. & Ors. , 207 (2014) DLT 221
have granted injunctions in defamation suits. 76. In fact, a Coordinate Bench of this Court in Naveen Jindal Vs.
M/s. Zee Media Corporation Limited & Anr.(supra) has held that the
power of the High Court to order restrain of publication in the media
would clearly encompass the stage when the criminal case against the
accused is at the preliminary enquiry or investigation stage. In the
aforesaid case, injunction was granted as investigation was sought to
be influenced inasmuch as the Investigating Officer was sought to be
interrogated/interviewed on Television by a party to the lis. 77. Keeping in view the aforesaid judgments, this Court is of the
opinion that the two-pronged test of necessity and proportionality have
to be satisfied before ordering postponement of publication, namely,
necessity to prevent real and substantial risk to fairness of trial and
salutary effect of such an injunction outweighs deleterious effect to the
free expression. This Court would like to clarify that tests like
necessity, proportionality and balance of convenience are not end
points but points of departure. Moreover, the injunction order should
only be passed if reasonable alternative methods or measures would
not prevent the said risk. EVEN IF A COURT IS INCLINED TO GRANT INJUNCTION,
THERE IS NEED TO TAKE CARE THAT IT DOES NOT RESULT IN
A "GAG ORDER" OR "SUPER-INJUNCTION" 78. There is need to take care that the injunction order, even if
granted does not result in a "gag order" or "super-injunction" which
not only anonymises the names of the parties to a case but prevents
discussion of the fact that any legal proceedings are ongoing is issued
in rarest of rare cases or where law mandates. After the Trafigura
episode, in which a company obtained a super-injunction against
papers reporting about toxic waste dumping in West Africa, the then
Master of the Rolls Lord Neuberger chaired a report which
recommended that only in the "rarest of rare cases", such as where
there is a possibility of criminals being 'tipped off' should such super-
injunction be issued. THIS COURT IS OF THE VIEW THAT NO BLANKET WINNING
RIGHT CAN BE DECLARED BECAUSE THE RIGHTS ARE
NEITHER ABSOLUTE NOR IN ANY HIERARCHAL ORDER, SINCE
THEY ARE OF EQUAL VALUE. THERE IS NEED TO BALANCE
WHICH HAS TO BE DONE ON CASE TO CASE BASIS. 79. Keeping in view the aforesaid, this Court is of the view that no
blanket winning right can be declared because the rights are neither
absolute nor in any hierarchal order, since they are of equal value.
There is need to balance which has to be done on case to case basis. AS FAR AS THE ALLEGED DEFAMATORY REMARKS A) TO I)
MENTIONED BY LEARNED SENIOR COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFF
ARE CONCERNED, THIS COURT IS OF THE OPINION THAT IN
VIEW OF THE DEFENCES OF PERSONAL ANIMOSITY AND
PROVOCATION, THE MATTER WOULD REQUIRE A DETAILED
TRIAL. 80. As far as the alleged defamatory remarks a) to i) mentioned by
learned senior counsel for plaintiff are concerned, this Court is of the
opinion that in view of the defences of personal animosity and that the
remarks in question had been made in response to „derogatory tweets‟
put out by the plaintiff himself, the matter would require a detailed
trial. For instance, it is the defendant No.1‟s case that he described
the plaintiff as „an unprincipled criminal masquerading as a
politician‟ in response to the plaintiff‟s prior tweet that „It‟s an
exasperating farrago of distortions, misrepresentations and outright
lies being broadcast by an unprincipled showman masquerading as a
journalist‟. Consequently, the defences of provocation and the context
in which the said remarks had been made would have to be examined
in depth at the trial stage. 81. Undoubtedly, TV viewers who want to watch „action films‟
should not watch TV debates on current affairs on the ground that it
contains more action and violence than any action film. There is need
to lift the level of TV debates, but other than expressing a fond hope,
the Court can do no more. 82. It is pertinent to mention that in the written statement, the
defendant no. 1 has clarified that he has never imputed that the
plaintiff is guilty in the Sunanda Pushkar case. In fact, the defendant CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 49 of 61 no. 1 has gone on record to state that the plaintiff is not the one being
accused of any wrongdoing. The relevant portion of the written
statement of the defendant no. 1 is reproduced hereinbelow:- 83. Further, keeping in view the voluminous material placed by
both the parties on record, this Court at the present stage cannot
conclude that the defendant no.1 has a history of broadcasting
incorrect and unsubstantiated news reports. IN THE PRESENT CASE, THIS COURT PRIMA FACIE FINDS
THAT THE DEFENDANTS HAVE HIGHLIGHTED THE EVIDENCE
WHICH IS RELEVANT AND MATERIAL ON A MATTER OF
SUBSTANTIAL IMPORTANCE WITH RESPECT TO A PUBLIC
FIGURE. THERE IS NO MATERIAL TO PRIMA FACIE CONCLUDE
THAT THE STORIES HAVE BEEN AIRED BY THE DEFENDANTS
WITH A RECKLESS DISREGARD FOR TRUTH OR PRECIPITATED
BY ACTUAL MALICE OR THAT THE DEFENCE OF
JUSTIFICATION/TRUTHFULNESS IS ONE THAT CANNOT
SUCCEED. 84. In the present case, this Court prima facie finds that the
defendants have highlighted the following evidence with respect to the
death of Ms. Sunanda Pushkar, wife of the plaintiff, a public figure
and who at the relevant time was the Minister of State for Human
Resource Development in the Union Cabinet:- b) The Kerala Institute of Medical Sciences report of the deceased
 showed that the deceased was hemodynamically stable when
 discharged. Consequently, death of the deceased on account of
 lupus, as suggested by the plaintiff, was improbable. c) Dr. Sudhir Gupta, Professor and HOD AIIMS who conducted
 the postmortem had alleged in his interviews to the defendants
 that political pressure was applied upon him. The relevant
 extracts of Dr. Sudhir Gupta are reproduced hereinbelow:- Broadcast dated 9th May, 2017
 "Dr. Sudhir Gupta : Pressure on me was...Pressure on
 me was declare this death as a natural death or we are
 going to remove you from the head of department.....
 and we will replace you..... Broadcast dated 31st July, 2017
 "Gupta - He (plaintiff) contacted me through Dr. RC
 Deka, ex-director, and more or less suggested that
 after first analysis report came negative, then he said I
 can declare the death natural and I can justify the
 haemorrhage...." d) 19 tapes of telephonic conversations between the reporter, the
 deceased herself and Mr. Narayan, Personal Assistant of the
 deceased which allegedly show inconsistencies in statements of
 the plaintiff. e) The CCTV footage of Main Porch is available till 17:44 hours
 of 15th January, 2014 only and then of 21st January from 12:12
 hours to 12:18 hours. No CCTV footage of Main Porch on 16th
 January, 2014 is available. The CCTV footage of Corridor is
 available of 17th January only till 23:57 hours and then the CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 52 of 61 footage is of 19th January. f) Delhi Police file noting on glaring shortcomings in
 investigation. The relevant portion of the said note reads as
 under:- 85. Irrespective of the style of reporting and the remarks made, this
Court is prima facie of the view that reporting in the present matter is
a case of legitimate investigative journalism as even three and a half
years after the death of Ms. Sunanda Pushkar, wife of a then sitting
Union Minister, no charge-sheet has been filed. The police may have
its own reasons for not completing the investigation, but this is a case
where defendants cannot be denied the right to telecast a story as it is a
matter of substantial importance with respect to a public figure.
Further, the documents and materials highlighted by the defendants
seem prima facie relevant and material. There is no material to prima
facie conclude that the stories have been aired by the defendants with
a reckless disregard for truth or precipitated by actual malice. 86. This Court is prima facie of the view that the present case falls
within the exception provided by the Division Bench in Court on its
own motion Vs. State and Ors., 2009 Crl. L.J. 677. The relevant
portion of the said Division Bench judgment is reproduced
hereinbelow:- has been adversely commented upon. But, the real
 questions that this decision raises are: what is the media to
 do in a case where investigations go on interminably? Is
 the media expected to remain a silent spectator during the
 entire period? What if the investigations are shoddy or
 patently one-sided or are carried out with a „sweep it
 under the carpet‟ attitude „what about the rights of the CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 54 of 61 victim of a vilification campaign‟ is he without recourse to
 any remedy in law? We propose to deal with these
 questions at the appropriate stage. xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 77. On the basis of the case law cited before us on the
 issue of media ethics and conduct, infractions thereof
 which tend to or constitute interference with the
 administration of justice so as to constitute contempt, the
 following norms emerge: xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 5. It follows from the above that before a cause is
 instituted in a Court of law, or is otherwise not imminent,
 the media has full play in the matter of legitimate
 „investigative journalism‟. This is in accord with our
 Constitutional principles of freedom of speech and
 expression and is in consonance with the right and duty
 of the media to raise issues of public concern and
 interest. This is also in harmony with a citizen‟s right to
 know particularly about events relating to the
 investigation in a case, or delay in investigation or soft-
 pedaling on investigations pertaining to matters of public
 concern and importance. 87. This Court has also held in Khushwant Singh v. Menaka
Gandhi , AIR 2002 Delhi 58 that where the defendant contends that
the words complained of are true, and asserts that he will plead and
seek at trial to prove the defence of justification, the court will not
grant an interim injunction, unless, exceptionally, the court is satisfied
that such a defence is one that cannot succeed. 88. In His Holiness Shamar Rimpoche v. Lea Terhune and
Others , AIR 2005 Del 167, a Coordinate Bench of this Court has held CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 55 of 61 as under:- 89. Consequently, in the present case an interlocutory injunction
cannot be granted at this prima facie stage to restrain publication. DIVISION BENCH JUDGMENT IN SUBRAMANIAN SWAMY &
ANR. (SUPRA) OFFERS NO ASSISTANCE TO THE PLAINTIFF AS
THE PARAMETERS/TESTS STIPULATED THEREIN CANNOT BE
APPLIED TO THE PRESENT CASE. THE DIVISION BENCH HELD
THAT THE PUBLIC INTEREST LITIGATION WAS A POLITICAL
INTEREST LITIGATION AND DR. SUBRAMANIAM SWAMY HAD
NOT DISCLOSED THE FULL AND COMPLETE FACTS AND HAD
NOT IMPLEADED THE PLAINTIFF DESPITE MAKING GRAVE
AND SWEEPING ALLEGATIONS AGAINST HIM. 90. This Court is of the opinion that the Division Bench‟s judgment
in Subramanian Swamy & Anr. (supra) has no relevance to the
present case as in the said Public Interest Litigation, the petitioner had
prayed for constitution of a multi-disciplinary SIT consisting of
Intelligence Bureau, Enforcement Directorate, RAW, Delhi Police and
headed by CBI to investigate the death of Late Sunanda Pushkar. 91. The parameters/tests stipulated in the said judgment cannot be
applied to the present case. Moreover, in the said case the Division CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 56 of 61 Bench held that the Public Interest Litigation was a „political interest
litigation‟ and Dr. Subramaniam Swamy had not disclosed the full and
complete facts and had not impleaded the plaintiff despite making
grave and sweeping allegations against him. Consequently, the said
division bench judgment offers no assistance to the plaintiff. IN A LIVE DEBATE OR AN INTERVIEW IT IS NOT POSSIBLE TO
RUN A DISCLAIMER AS NO BROADCASTER CAN PREDICT OR
KNOW IN ADVANCE WHAT A PARTICIPANT OR AN
INTERVIEWER IS GOING TO STATE 92. As far as learned senior counsel for the plaintiff‟s prayer for
running a scroll disclaiming the remarks/comments made by third
party is concerned, this Court is of the view that in a live debate or an
interview it is not possible to run a disclaimer as no broadcaster can
predict or know in advance what a participant or an interviewer is
going to state. EVERY INDIVIDUAL/ACCUSED HAS A RIGHT TO SILENCE.
UNDER THE INDIAN CONSTITUTION, NO PERSON CAN BE
COMPELLED TO GIVE TESTIMONY OR ANSWER QUESTIONS
WHICH MAY INCRIMINATE HIM. UNDOUBTEDLY, AN
INDIVIDUAL AFFECTED BY THE STORY MUST BE GIVEN AN
OPTION TO GIVE HIS VERSION, BUT HE CANNOT BE
COMPELLED TO SPEAK, IF DOES NOT WANT TO. 93. However, there is merit in the argument of learned senior
counsel for the plaintiff that the defendants cannot coerce or insist that
the plaintiff must make a statement. A perusal of the transcript reveals
that the defendant no. 1 in his telecast has repeatedly insisted that the
plaintiff being a public figure cannot contend that he has a right to CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 57 of 61 silence. Even Mr. Sandeep Sethi, learned senior counsel for the
defendants had stated that as the plaintiff is privy to special facts, he
should come clean. 94. In the opinion of this Court, every individual/accused has a right
to silence. Under the Indian Constitution, no person can be compelled
to give testimony or answer questions which may incriminate him.
Undoubtedly, an individual affected by the story must be given an
option to give his version, but he cannot be compelled to speak, if he
does not want to. The „culture of thrusting a microphone‟ in the face
of a person needs to be deprecated. 95. The Apex Court in Nandini Satpathy Vs. P.L. Dani & Another reported in (1978) 2 SCC 424 has held that a person who adopts a
stance of silence, runs a calculated risk, but he cannot be compelled to
speak. The relevant portion of the said judgment is reproduced as
under:- CONCLUSION 96. Keeping in view the aforesaid mandate of law and the prima
facie findings, this Court is of the opinion that in the present case the
defendants have the right to air their stories and the same cannot be
curbed, but it has to be tempered and balanced. 97. This Court is of the view that it is important that when criminal
investigation has commenced, media reporting should be sensitive to
the indeterminacy of the questions raised in the proceedings. Press
cannot „convict anyone‟ or insinuate that he/she is guilty or make any
other unsubstantiated claims. Press has to exercise care and caution
while reporting about matters under investigation or pending trial. 98. This Court refrains from saying anything more as Mr. Sandeep
Sethi, learned senior counsel for defendants had assured this Court on
29th May, 2017 that the defendants in future would exercise restraint
as well as bring down the „rhetoric‟ and even according to Mr. Salman
Khurshid, learned senior counsel for plaintiff, subsequent to the said
statement the „previous vitriolic attack‟ was missing. The statement
made by Mr. Sandeep Sethi is accepted by this Court and defendants
are held bound by the same. 99. However, before airing any story pertaining to the plaintiff, the
defendants shall give the plaintiff a written notice, by electronic mode,
asking for his version. If the plaintiff refuses or does not reply within
a reasonable time, he will not be compelled to speak and the story will
be aired with the disclosure that the plaintiff has refused to speak to
the defendants. 100. This Court clarifies that all observations in the present case are
prima facie in nature and are in the context of the disputes between the
parties hereto. None of the observations in the present case shall be
used in any criminal proceeding, if any, filed by the State. 101. With the aforesaid observations, present applications being
I.As. 6674/2017, 8809/2017 and 10378/2017 stand disposed of. MANMOHAN, J
DECEMBER 01, 2017
js/rn CS(OS) 253/2017 Page 61 of 61