SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: PSA: Watch out for this new scam: the "International Courier" scam
DATE: 2023-06-16
SCORE: 46
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/14am43d/psa_watch_out_for_this_new_scam_the_international/

--- POST TEXT ---

Sent by my bank: 

This is how they scam 

The scammers inform an individual (their target person) that a parcel in their name has been intercepted by the Police. The same call is then quickly connected with people posing as police officials, who in an official sounding language advise the target to connect over a video call immediately.

Unsuspecting individual who connect over the video call see the scammers who are posing as police officials wearing police uniforms. The background to the video often look like a police station. At times, these scammers posing as police officials are joined by accomplices who pose as officers from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
The scammers use the name of real people who which are indeed highly placed officials in police department.

They may also show some forged documents relating to the courier.

If the target starts trusting the scammers on the call, the target is made to believe that the parcel contains a contraband or prohibited contents. The alleged RBI officials also inform that there are bank accounts in the name of the target that are linked to the sales proceeds of the contraband.

The target is informed that a 'Narcotics Investigation' and a 'Money Laundering Investigation' is also underway involving the target.

By this time, if the target is sufficiently terrified, they are asked to make online transfers of large sums of monies into bank accounts where alleged RBI official advise that the monies will be safe and kept in their custody and will be returned if the target proves that they are not involved. The target is also advised not to inform anyone since such disclosure may drag people they know/relatives also into the alleged investigation.

To gain the trust of target further, the target is also informed to write payment purpose/narrations such as 'AML insurance' or 'Ministry' etc. Once the target transfers monies online, the scammers quickly siphon it off and disappear.