YASHWANT VARMA, J. TABLE OF CONTENTS
 Preface .................................................................................................... 8

 Disciplinary Procedure as per the CA Act ....................................... 12
 Section 132 : A Legislative History .................................................... 31

 Broad Structure under the CA Act ................................................... 96

 NFRA Rules ....................................................................................... 109
 Additional Disclosures by NFRA ..................................................... 116

 Auditing Industry : Executive Deliberations .................................. 150
 The Vicarious Liability Argument .................................................. 171
 Section 132 and its retroactive operation........................................ 232

 NFRA Rules : Lack of Procedural Safeguards .............................. 322
 Divisions : Separation of Functions ................................................. 384
 SCNs: The Scar of Pre-determination ............................................ 437

 Peripheral Issues ............................................................................... 456

 Statement of Conclusions ................................................................. 457
 Disposition .......................................................................................... 474

 PREFACE 1. This batch of writ petitions instituted by individual Chartered W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 8 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Accountants 1 as well as auditing firms assail the validity of Section
 132(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 2. A challenge is additionally raised
 to Rules 3, 8, 10 and 11 of the National Financial Reporting
 Authority Rules, 20183. 2. For the purposes of the challenge which stands raised to the
 statutory provisions aforenoted, the petitioners seek a declaration that
 those provisions be struck down as being unconstitutional on the
 ground of being arbitrary and ultra vires. In the alternative, the
 petitioners seek an appropriate declaration to the effect that Section
 132(4) of the Companies Act as well as Rules 3, 8 10 and 11 of the
 NFRA Rules be held not to apply to any audit completed before 01
 October 2018. The prayer in the alternative essentially calls upon the
 Court to read down those provisions as being inapplicable to audits that
 may have been completed prior to the introduction of Section 132 in the Companies Act and thus avoid a declaration of invalidity being
 rendered. 3. The petitioners in this batch have individually impugned the
 notices issued by the National Financial Regulatory Authority 4 in
 terms of which proceedings were sought to be initiated by the
 respondent for commencement of disciplinary action in respect of
 perceived acts of "professional or other misconduct" and for
 consequential imposition of penalties. In some of the writ petitions,
 final orders of punishment including that of debarment had also come
 to be passed and which too have been impugned in the instant writ 1 CAs 2 Companies Act 3 NFRA Rules 4 NFRA W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 9 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 petitions. 4. The challenge on the basis of constitutional invalidity is founded
 on a retroactive operation of Section 132 of the Companies Act and
 which is viewed as empowering the NFRA to initiate disciplinary
 proceedings not just against individual partners and CAs' but also
 auditing firms in respect of any audit that may have been conducted
 including those commenced and concluded prior to the introduction of
 that provision in the Companies Act . 5. Section 132 came to be incorporated in the Companies Act by
 virtue of Act 18 of 2013 and came to be operationalized in terms of a
 notification issued on 01 October 2018. In terms of that notification, the
 Union Government designated the said date as the point of
 commencement as well as the date of constitution of the NFRA. It is in
 the aforesaid backdrop that the petitioners contend that Section 132 and
 its retrospective operation would be rendered unconstitutional and
 invalid since it contemplates the imposition of penalties as well as
 disciplinary action in terms which were not contemplated by the statute
 prior to 01 October 2018. The challenge to Section 132 also proceeds
 on the ground of an alleged lack of procedural due process as well as
 the deprivation of rights and safeguards which were conferred upon a
 CA or a firm while facing disciplinary action under the Chartered
 Accountants Act, 1949 5 read along with the Chartered Accountants
 Regulations, 1988 6 and the Chartered Accountants
 (Procedure of Investigations of Professional and Other 5 CA Act . 1988 Regulations W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 10 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Misconduct and Conduct of Cases) Rules, 20077. 6. The action of the respondents which stands impugned in this
 batch is also based on the various provisions contained in Section 132 itself as well as the NFRA Rules. This facet of the challenge is based on
 the petitioners arguing that in terms of the statutory provisions
 aforenoted, the NFRA is envisaged to discharge its functions and duties
 through various independent and separate "divisions". According to the
 writ petitioners, the statute itself envisages the functions of monitoring
 and enforcement of accounting standards, overseeing quality of service,
 suggesting measures, the power to investigate as well as to undertake
 disciplinary action is contemplated to be discharged by separate
 divisions of the NFRA. According to the writ petitioners, in the facts of
 these cases it is apparent that the body which oversaw the audits in
 question was the same which came to the conclusion that there was a
 failure to comply with accounting standards itself and initiated
 proceedings for taking disciplinary action. They thus contend that the
 very same body that had drawn a report on the basis of which the
 disciplinary proceedings are sought to be initiated and undertaken has
 essentially donned the role of both prosecutor and judge. This,
 according to the petitioners, is sufficient to hold the initiation of action
 as being in clear violation of fair and due process and in breach of Article 14 of the Constitution. 7. While we had concluded the hearing on this batch of writ
 petitions on 22 July 2024, the pronouncement of the present judgment
 was delayed primarily on account of written submissions being 7 Rules 2007. tendered by NFRA only on 06 October 2024. The Court was thereafter
 constrained to await any response that the petitioners may have wished
 to submit since those submissions were circulated amongst learned
 counsels for the petitioners only around that time. DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE AS PER THE CA ACT 8. Having noticed the principal grounds of challenge, it becomes
 appropriate to note that prior to the introduction of Section 132 of the
 2013 Act, disciplinary proceedings against a CA was regulated by the
 provisions contained in the CA Act read along with the 1988
 Regulations and the Misconduct Rules 2007. The CA Act incorporated
 provisions in Chapter V for the purposes of undertaking disciplinary
 proceedings against a member or a firm. Prior to certain amendments
 which were introduced in the CA Act in 2006 and 2022, disciplinary
 proceedings against a member of a firm were to be undertaken by a
 Disciplinary Directorate which was a body charged with undertaking a
 preliminary examination of a complaint, a Board of Discipline which
 was to try cases of professional or other misconduct specified in the First Schedule of the CA Act and the Disciplinary Committee in respect
 of members found to be guilty of professional or other misconduct
 mentioned in either the Second Schedule or both the First and the
 Second Schedules forming part of the CA Act, 1949 . 9. By virtue of amendments which came to be ushered by Act 12 of
 2022, various amendments came to be introduced in Sections 2 which
 also and alongside saw the introduction of Sections 21A and 21B in the CA Act . Act 12 of 2022 also introduced provisions pertaining to the
 registration of firms. As the provisions stood in the CA Act around the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 12 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 time when Section 132 came to be introduced, the Council as
 contemplated under Section 9 of the CA Act, stood empowered to
 establish a Disciplinary Directorate headed by an officer designated as
 the Director Discipline for undertaking investigations in respect of any
 information or complaint received by the Council. In terms of Section
 21 , the Director Discipline was firstly charged with analyzing the
 information or complaint and arrive at a prima facie opinion with
 respect to the alleged misconduct. Wherever a Director Discipline were
 to form the opinion that a member was guilty of any professional or
 other misconduct specified in the First Schedule, it was required to
 place the matter before the Board of Discipline. If the Director
 Discipline were to be of the opinion that the misconduct would be
 classifiable either in the Second Schedule or both the Schedules, it was
 obliged to place the matter before the Disciplinary Committee. 10. The Board of Discipline by virtue of Section 21A of the CA Act
 was to comprise of persons with experience in law and having
 knowledge of disciplinary matters, two members of which one would
 be a member of the Council elected by the said body itself and the other
 being a member nominated by the Union Government from amongst
 persons of eminence having experience in the field of law, economics,
 business, finance or accountancy. The Director Discipline in terms of Section 21A was to function as the Secretary of the Board of Discipline.
 By virtue of Section 21A(3) , the Board of Discipline upon coming to
 the conclusion that a member was guilty of professional or other
 misconduct mentioned in the First Schedule, could impose one or more
 of the following punishments:- 11. The Disciplinary Committee in terms of Section 21B was
 comprised of the President or the Vice President of the Council to act as
 the Presiding Officer and two members to be elected from amongst the
 members of the Council. The Disciplinary Committee was also
 envisaged to comprise of two members nominated by the Union
 Government from amongst persons of eminence having experience in
 the field of law, economics, business, finance or accountancy. It thus
 became a five-member body which upon coming to the conclusion that
 a member was guilty of professional or a misconduct mentioned in the
 Second Schedule or both the Schedules could proceed to take any one
 or more of the following actions namely:- permanently or for such period as it may think fit

 C. Impose such fine as deemed appropriate and which could
 extend to INR 5 lakhs. 12. Post promulgation of Act 12 of 2022, the Director Discipline
 came to be empowered by statute to undertake an investigation either
 suo moto or on receipt of information or complaint. In the course of
 undertaking that investigation, where the Director Discipline were to
 find that the case merited further inquiry, it was obliged to provide an W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 14 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 opportunity to the member or the firm as the case may be, to submit a
 written statement. Upon the Director Discipline finding prima facie that
 a case for professional or other misconduct mentioned in the First
 Schedule was made out, it was required to submit a preliminary
 examination report to the Board of Discipline. Similarly, if it came to
 the prima facie conclusion that a professional or other misconduct was
 found to be established and would fall either in the Second Schedule or
 both the Schedules, it was required to transmit its preliminary
 examination report to the Disciplinary Committee. 13. Section 21 further contemplated that if a Director Discipline
 were to come to form the opinion that no prima facie case was made
 out either against the member or the firm, it was required to transmit
 the complaint along with all relevant documents to the Board of
 Discipline and if that body were to concur with the findings of the
 Director Discipline, it could direct a closure of the proceedings. If it
 were to disagree and continue action upon the complaint itself, it could
 refer the matter either to the Disciplinary Committee or even advise the
 Director Discipline to undertake a further investigation. Sections 21A and 21B thus encapsulated the procedure which was liable to be
 adhered to by the Board of Discipline and the Disciplinary Committee
 while exercising their respective powers to undertake disciplinary
 action against a member of the firm. 14. Professional or other misconduct was defined in Section 22 of
 the CA Act which in turn bids one to proceed to the First and the
 Second Schedules which set out the various acts or omissions which
 would amount to misconduct. For purposes of lucidity, we deem it W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 15 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 appropriate to extract Sections 21 , 21A and 21B in the form of a
 comparative table and which captures how those set of provisions read
 prior to and after their substitution by Act 12 of 2022:- opinion that a member is guilty of Provided that the Director
 any professional or other(Discipline) may call for
 misconduct mentioned in the additional information from the
 Second Schedule** or in both the complainant or the informant, as
 Schedules, he shall place the the case may be, by giving
 matter before the Disciplinary fifteen days time before deciding
 Committee. whether the case is actionable or
 (4) In order to make investigations non-actionable: Disciplinary Committee, and the
 said Board or Committee may, if it (3) While making investigation
 is of the view that the into a case which is found to be
 circumstances so warrant, permit actionable, the Director
 the withdrawal at any stage.] (Discipline) shall give an
 opportunity to the member or the
 firm, as the case may be, to
 submit a written statement
 within twenty-one days which
 may further be extended by
 another twenty-one days, for
 reasons to be recorded in
 writing. (4) Upon receipt of the written
 statement under sub-section (3),
 if any, the Director (Discipline)
 shall send a copy thereof to the
 complainant or the informant, as
 the case may be, and the
 complainant or the informant
 shall, within twenty-one days of
 the receipt of such written
 statement, submit his rejoinder. (5) Upon receipt of the written
 statement under sub-section (3)
 and rejoinder under sub-section
 (4), the Director (Discipline)
 shall submit a preliminary
 examination report within thirty
 days, if a prima facie case is
 made out against a member or a
 firm, as the case may be. (6) In case a prima facie case is
 made out for any professional or
 other misconduct mentioned in
 the First Schedule, the Director
 (Discipline) shall submit the
 preliminary examination report W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 17 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 to the Board of Discipline and
 where prima facie case is made
 out for any professional or other
 misconduct mentioned in the
 Second Schedule or in both the
 First Schedule and the Second
 Schedule, he shall submit a
 preliminary examination report
 to the Disciplinary Committee: disciplinary matters and the (a) a person, not being a member
 profession, to be its presiding of the Institute, with experience
 officer; in law and having knowledge of (b) two members one of whom disciplinary matters and the
 shall be a member of the Council profession, to be nominated by
 elected by the Council and the the Central Government as its
 other member shall be nominated Presiding Officer, from out of a
 by the Central Government from panel of persons prepared and
 amongst the persons of eminence provided by the Council in such
 having experience in the field of manner as may be prescribed;
 law, economics, business, finance (b) one member, who is a person
 or accountancy; of eminence having experience (c) the Director (Discipline) shall in the field of law, economics,
 function as the Secretary of the business, finance or accountancy
 and not being a member of the
 Board. Institute, to be nominated by the
 (2) The Board of Discipline shall Central Government from out of
 follow summary disposal a panel of persons prepared and
 procedure in dealing with all cases provided by the Council in such
 before it. manner as may be prescribed; (3) Where the Board of Discipline (c) one member to be nominated
 is of the opinion that a member is by the Council from out of a
 guilty of a professional or other panel of members of the Institute
 misconduct mentioned in the First W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 19 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Schedule, it shall afford to the to be prepared by the Council, in
 member an opportunity of being such manner as may be
 heard before making any order prescribed; against him and may thereafter (d) an officer of the Institute not
 take any one or more of the below the rank of a Deputy
 following actions, namely :− Secretary shall function as the (a) reprimand the member; Secretary of the Board of (b) remove the name of the Discipline: submit before the Board of
 Discipline all information and (2) The Board of Discipline
 complaints where he is of the shall, while considering the
 opinion that there is no prima facie cases placed before it, follow
 case and the Board of Discipline such procedure including
 may, if it agrees with the opinion faceless proceedings and virtual
 of the Director (Discipline), close hearings as may be specified.
 the matter or in case of (3) The Board of Discipline
 disagreement, may advise the shall, on receipt of preliminary
 Director (Discipline) to further examination report from
 investigate the matter. Director (Discipline), require the
 member or the firm, as the case
 may be, against whom such
 preliminary examination report
 has been filed, to submit a
 written statement within twenty- one days which may further be
 extended by another twenty one
 days, in exceptional
 circumstances, for reasons to be
 recorded in writing. (4) The Board of Discipline shall
 conclude its inquiry within
 ninety days of the receipt of
 preliminary examination report
 from the Director (Discipline). (5) Upon inquiry, if the Board of
 Discipline finds that such
 member is guilty of a W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 20 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 professional or other misconduct
 mentioned in the First Schedule,
 it may pass an order within thirty
 days of such finding, after
 providing an opportunity of
 being heard to the member,
 taking any one or more of the
 following actions, namely-- (a) reprimand the member and
 record it in the Register of
 members; (b) remove the name of the
 member or members from the
 Register of members up to a
 period of six months; (c) impose such fine as it may
 think fit which may extend to
 two lakh rupees. (6) Where on the basis of
 evidence brought on record or
 during the course of an inquiry
 pertaining to a member, the
 Board of Discipline is of the
 opinion that any such member
 who is a partner or owner of a
 firm, has been repeatedly found
 guilty of misconduct mentioned
 in the First Schedule during the
 last five years, the following
 action may also be taken against
 such firm, namely-- (a) prohibit the firm from
 undertaking any activity or
 activities relating to the
 profession of a chartered
 accountant in practice for such
 period not exceeding one year; or (b) impose such fine as it may
 think fit, which may extend to
 twenty-five lakh rupees. (7) Where a member or a firm
 fails to pay the fine imposed W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 21 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 under sub-section (5) or sub- section (6) within such time as
 may be specified, the Council
 shall remove the name of such
 member or firm from the
 Register of members or Register
 of firms, as the case may be, for
 such period as it may think fit. (8) The Presiding Officer and
 members of the Board of
 Discipline shall be paid such
 allowances as may be
 prescribed.] S. 21B (1) The Council shall constitute a (1) The Council shall, by
 Disciplinary Committee consisting notification, constitute one or
 of the President or the Vice- more Disciplinary Committees,
 President of the Council as the each consisting of--
 Presiding Officer and two (a) a person, not being a member
 members to be elected from of the Institute, with experience
 amongst the members of the in law and having knowledge of
 Council and two members to be disciplinary matters and the
 nominated by the Central profession, to be nominated by
 Government from amongst the the Central Government as its
 persons of eminence having Presiding Officer, from out of a
 experience in the field of law, panel of persons prepared and
 economics, business, finance or provided by the Council in such
 accountancy: manner as may be prescribed; Provided that the Council may (b) two members, who are
 constitute more Disciplinary persons of eminence having
 Committees as and when it experience in the field of law,
 considers necessary. economics, business, finance or
 accountancy and not being a
 member of the Institute, to be
 (2) The Disciplinary Committee,
 nominated by the Central
 while considering the cases placed
 Government from out of a panel
 before it shall follow such
 of persons prepared and
 procedure as may be specified. provided by the Council in such
 (3) Where the Disciplinary manner as may be prescribed;
 Committee is of the opinion that a (c) two members to be
 member is guilty of a professional
 nominated by the Council from
 or other misconduct mentioned in
 out of a panel of members of the
 the Second Schedule or both the
 Institute to be prepared by the
 First Schedule and the Second
 Council in such manner as may
 Schedule, it shall afford to the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 22 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 member an opportunity of being be prescribed: permanently or for such period, as (2) The Disciplinary Committee
 it thinks fit; shall, while considering the (c) impose such fine as it may cases placed before it, follow
 think fit, which may extend to such procedure including
 faceless proceedings and virtual
 rupees five lakhs. hearings as may be specified. (4) The allowances payable to the
 members nominated by the (3) The Disciplinary Committee
 Central Government shall be such shall, on receipt of preliminary
 examination report from
 as may be specified. Director (Discipline), require the
 member or the firm, as the case
 may be, against whom such
 preliminary examination report
 has been filed, to submit a
 written statement within twenty- one days, which may further be
 extended by another twenty-one
 days in exceptional
 circumstances, for reasons to be
 recorded in writing. (4) The Disciplinary Committee
 shall conclude its inquiry within
 one hundred and eighty days of
 receipt of the preliminary
 examination report from the
 Director (Discipline). (5) Upon inquiry, if the
 Disciplinary Committee finds
 that a member is guilty of a
 professional or other misconduct
 mentioned in the Second
 Schedule or in both the First
 Schedule and the Second
 Schedule, it may pass an order
 within thirty days of such a
 finding, after providing an W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 23 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 opportunity of being heard to the
 member, taking any one or more
 of the following actions,
 namely-- (a) reprimand the member and
 record it in the Register of
 members; or (b) remove the name of the
 member from the Register of
 members permanently or for
 such period, as it may think fit; or (c) impose such fine as it may
 think fit, which may extend to
 ten lakh rupees. (6) Where on the basis of
 evidence brought on record or
 during the course of an inquiry
 pertaining to a member, the
 Disciplinary Committee is of the
 opinion that any such member,
 who is a partner or owner of a
 firm has been repeatedly found
 guilty of misconduct mentioned
 in the Second Schedule or in
 both the First Schedule and the
 Second Schedule, during the last
 five years, the following actions
 may also be taken against such
 firm, namely-- (a) prohibit the firm from
 undertaking any activity or
 activities relating to the
 profession of a chartered
 accountant in practice for such
 period not exceeding two years; or (b) suspend or cancel the
 registration of the firm and
 remove its name from the
 Register of firms permanently or
 for such period as it may think
 fit; or W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 24 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 (c) impose such fine as it may
 think fit, which may extend to
 fifty lakh rupees. (7) Where a member or a firm
 fails to pay the fine imposed
 under sub-section (5) or sub- section (6) within the specified
 time, the Council shall remove
 the name of such member or
 firm from the Register of
 members or Register of firms, as
 the case may be, for such period,
 as it may think fit. (8) The Presiding Officer and
 members of the Disciplinary
 Committee shall be paid such
 allowances as may be
 prescribed.] 15. At this juncture we deem it apposite to note that even though the
 amendments came to be introduced vide Sections 21 , 22 and 23 of the
 Act No. 12 of 2022, however the same have not been notified till date.
 In this regard, reference may be made to Notification dated 10 May
 2022 and which reads as under:- 16. Of equal significance are the First and Second Schedules of the
 CA Act which specify with sufficient clarity and precision acts that
 would amount to professional or other misconduct. Those Schedules
 are reproduced hereinbelow: - Explanation.--In this item, "partner" includes a person residing
 outside India with whom a chartered accountant in practice has
 entered into partnership which is not in contravention of Item (4) of
 this Part; (3) accepts or agrees to accept any part of the profits of the
 professional work of a person who is not a member of the Institute: Part II
 Professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute in
 service
 A member of the Institute (other than a member in practice) shall
 be deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct, if he being an W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 28 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 employee of any company, firm or person-- (1) pays or allows or agrees to pay directly or indirectly to any
 person any share in the emoluments of the employment undertaken
 by him; (2) accepts or agrees to accept any part of fees, profits or gains
 from a lawyer, a chartered accountant or broker engaged by such
 company, firm or person or agent or customer of such company,
 firm or person by way of commission or gratification. Part III
 Professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute
 generally
 A member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, shall be
 deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct, if he--
 (1) not being a fellow of the Institute, acts as a fellow of the
 Institute; (2) does not supply the information called for, or does not comply
 with the requirements asked for, by the Institute, Council or any of
 its Committees, Director (Discipline), Board of Discipline,
 Disciplinary Committee, Quality Review Board or the Appellate
 Authority; (3) while inviting professional work from another chartered
 accountant or while responding to tenders or enquiries or while
 advertising through a write up or anything as provided for in Items
 (6) and (7) of Part I of this Schedule, gives information knowing it
 to be false. Part IV
 Other misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally
 A member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, shall be
 deemed to be guilty of other misconduct, if he--
 (1) is held guilty by any civil or criminal court for an offence which
 is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
 months; (2) in the opinion of the Council, brings disrepute to the profession
 or the Institute as a result of his action whether or not related to his
 professional work.]
 SCHEDULE II
 Part I
 Professional misconduct in relation to chartered accountants in
 practice W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 29 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 A chartered accountant in practice shall be deemed to be guilty of
 professional misconduct, if he-- (1) discloses information acquired in the course of his professional
 engagement to any person other than his client so engaging him,
 without the consent of his client or otherwise than as required by
 any law for the time being in force; (2) certifies or submits in his name, or in the name of his firm, a
 report of an examination of financial statements unless the
 examination of such statements and the related records has been
 made by him or by a partner or an employee in his firm or by
 another chartered accountant in practice; (3) permits his name or the name of his firm to be used in
 connection with an estimate of earnings contingent upon future
 transactions in a manner which may lead to the [belief that he or his
 firm] vouches for the accuracy of the forecast;
 (4) expresses his opinion on financial statements of any business or
 enterprise in which he, his firm, or a partner in his firm has a
 substantial interest; (5) fails to disclose a material fact known to him which is not
 disclosed in a financial statement, but disclosure of which is
 necessary in making such financial statement where he is
 concerned with that financial statement in a professional capacity;
 (6) fails to report a material misstatement known to him to appear
 in a financial statement with which he is concerned in a
 professional capacity; (7) does not exercise due diligence, or is grossly negligent in the
 conduct of his professional duties; (8) fails to obtain sufficient information which is necessary for
 expression of an opinion or its exceptions are sufficiently material
 to negate the expression of an opinion; (9) fails to invite attention to any material departure from the
 generally accepted procedure of audit applicable to the
 circumstances; (10) fails to keep moneys of his client other than fees or
 remuneration or money meant to be expended in a separate banking
 account or to use such moneys for purposes for which they are
 intended within a reasonable time. Part II
 Professional misconduct in relation to members of the Institute
 generally
 A member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, shall be W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 30 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 deemed to be guilty of professional misconduct, if he--
 (1) contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or the regulations
 made thereunder or any guidelines issued by the Council;
 (2) being an employee of any company, firm or person, discloses
 confidential information acquired in the course of his employment
 except as and when required by any law for the time being in force
 or except as permitted by the employer; (3) includes in any information, statement, return or form to be
 submitted to the Institute, Council or any of its Committees,
 Director (Discipline), Board of Discipline, Disciplinary Committee,
 Quality Review Board or the Appellate Authority any particulars
 knowing them to be false; (4) defalcates or embezzles moneys received in his professional
 capacity. [(5) acts as an auditor of the company in contravention of the
 provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).]
 Part III
 Other misconduct in relation to members of the Institute generally
 A member of the Institute, whether in practice or not, shall be
 deemed to be guilty of professional other misconduct, if he is held
 guilty by any civil or criminal court for an offence which is
 punishable with imprisonment for a term exceeding six months." SECTION 132 : A LEGISLATIVE HISTORY 17. For the purposes of appreciating the challenge that stands raised
 as also to understand the imperatives which informed the introduction
 of Section 132, it would be apposite to step back in point of time and
 refer to some of the executive and legislative deliberations which
 preceded the incorporation of that section in the statute book. In terms
 of the disclosures that are made by NFRA in these proceedings, it
 would appear that the Union Government had for some time been
 contemplating the setting up and establishment of an appropriate
 regulatory mechanism to ensure monitoring and compliance of
 accounting and auditing standards as well as to oversee the quality of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 31 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 service rendered by professionals associated with compliance. 18. The first of those steps can be traced back to the introduction of
 Section 210A in the Companies Act, 1956 which empowered the Union
 Government to constitute the National Advisory Committee on
 Accounting Standards 8 to advise it on the formulation and laying
 down of accounting policies and standards for companies or classes of
 companies. Section 210A as it stood in the erstwhile companies
 legislation is reproduced hereinbelow: - 19. The Standing Committee of Parliament on Finance in its 21st
 Report while commenting upon the Companies Bill, 2009 made the
 following significant recommendations:- 35. On being asked, the Ministry examined the afore-said
 suggestions in detail, particularly in the light of provisions of
 clause 118 of the Bill, which seeks to provide for widening the role
 of NACAAS (established at present under section 210A of the
 Companies Act) to recommend both accounting as well as auditing
 standards. The Ministry, while agreeing to the different
 suggestions, have submitted as follows : 36. The Ministry have also suggested in this regard that : 37. The Committee acknowledge the Ministry's acceptance of
 the Committee's views and suggestions for ensuring
 independence of auditors, providing safeguards to retain
 credibility of the audit process and creation of a supervisory
 mechanism for this purpose. The Committee would recommend
 that the proposed body namely, NACAAS would be given
 sufficient mandate not only to set and oversee auditing and
 accounting standards, but also to monitor the quality of audit W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 35 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 undertaken across the corporate sector. It should, therefore, be
 manned by professionals. Its role may be expanded depending
 upon experience gained." 20. The need to sufficiently empower the NACAS also appears to
 have formed the subject matter of consideration of that Committee as
 would be evident from the following extracts of the 57th Report of the
 Standing Committee on Finance (2011-12):- The Authority shall consider the International Financial Reporting
 Standards and other internationally accepted accounting and
 auditing policies and standards while making recommendations on
 such matters to the Central Government which will improve the
 competitiveness of our companies with other companies. The
 Authority is also proposed to be empowered with quasi judicial
 powers to ensure independent oversight over professionals." 21. The then Hon'ble Minister of State in the Ministry of Corporate
 Affairs in the course of discussion which ensued in the Lok Sabha,
 which was considering the motion for passing of the Companies Bill,
 2011, explained the proposed mandate of the NFRA as follows:- 22. However, the NFRA as a regulatory body, did not come into
 being until much later. From the material that has been placed for our W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 36 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 consideration, it further transpires that comments with respect to the
 proposed conferment of disciplinary power upon the NFRA were also
 sought from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 9. The
 ICAI appears to have expressed various reservations with respect to
 such a power being vested in the NFRA. The comments of the ICAI
 appear to have been duly examined by the Companies Law Committee
 which had been set up by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in June
 2015 and which in its report submitted on 1 February 2016 observed as
 under:- The constitution of NFRA needs to be re-examined in the
 mentioned contexts where relevant mechanisms and units have
 been enabled by and/or within the ICAI organisation to deliver the
 twin objectives of robust policy making and unbiased enforcement
 in a timely manner. c) Relevance of NFRA in the context of the Companies Act 2013: The objective of NFRA is to regulate audit quality and
 protect public interest. These, in any case, are also the main
 objectives of ICAI which strives to be a world class regulator. It is
 pertinent to note that the new Companies Act 2013 has
 significantly enhanced provisions, pertaining to Accounts, Audit
 and Corporate Governance which can deliver the above objectives
 very well. ICAI W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 37 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Specific aspects to regulate audit quality include integration of
 financial statement reporting with Internal Financial Controls,
 restrictions on auditors rendering conflicting services, audit
 rotation, audit limits and penalties on the audit profession have
 been included in the new Act. Similarly entity level discipline is
 sought to be enhanced by significant controls over related party
 transactions, acceptance of deposits, code of independent directors,
 mandatory internal audits for large enterprises, enhanced board
 responsibility etc. These controls enshrined in the Act, in addition
 to the efforts of ICAI will enable higher audit quality especially for
 public interest entities. Incremental benefits by creating NFRA
 need to be reexamined before notification of Section 132. d) Auditing Standards: ICAI as a world class regulator would be
 more aligned to market needs, international practices and risks to
 be able to define and improve Auditing standards rather than
 NFRA. e) Disciplinary Mechanism: The Disciplinary Committee of ICAI
 normally completes the process in a reasonable period of about
 three to four years. f) International benchmarks: The Public Companies Accounting
 Oversight Board (PCAOB) of the US may be regarded as a
 possible closely comparable body to NFRA, if notified. It is
 relevant to note that PCAOB has evoked mixed responses in its
 ability to improve audit quality. The PCAOB budget for 2016 is
 estimated at $250 million and is enabled by 750 audit staff. The
 Challenges of availability of trained and qualified audit staff and
 the cost thereof may need to be appreciated ahead of the decision to
 notify NFRA. g) NFRA reporting and market perception: As a regulatory
 oversight body, it would be incumbent on NFRA to share their
 findings, at least in part, on their audits to the public. A particular
 issue would be on the ability and maturity of stakeholders and
 markets to distinguish between audit defects as identified by NFRA
 (highly likely) and a total audit failures (less likely). h) Uniform administration: Scale based differentiation of
 regulating authority may result in conflicting judgements on the
 same issue. Seamless coordination may always not be possible
 between NFRA and ICAI due to the multiplicity of disciplinary
 issues that may be handled by both agencies. i) Challenges in adjudication : The setting up and managing a
 standard setting, review and quasi-judicial authority requires
 sustained effort on timely availability of adequate competent
 personnel which may be a challenge for NFRA. 3.20. Further ICAI offered their following suggestions on the
 above:- 23. The proposed introduction of Section 132 again formed subject
 matter of consideration of the Standing Committee on Finance which in
 its 37th Report observed as follows:- 24. In terms of a Press Release which thereafter came to be issued on
 01 March 2018, the Union Cabinet is stated to have approved the
 establishment of the NFRA. This was followed by a notification dated
 21 March 2018 in terms of which sub-section (3) and (11) of Section
 132 came to be enforced. The delay in the constitution of the NFRA
 also appears to have formed the subject matter of debate and discussion
 in the Lok Sabha in its proceedings which were held on 23 March 2018.
 This becomes apparent from the consideration of the discussion
 surrounding question no. 4799. Similar queries were raised in the Rajya
 Sabha on 03 April 2018. Responding to the questions so raised, the
 then Minister of Corporate Affairs made the following statement:- The draft rules w.r.t. such section were prepared and public
 consultation was done during 2013-14 alongwith various other rules
 being considered under Companies Act, 2013 at that stage. In view
 of reservations and apprehensions expressed by the Institute of
 Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), it was decided to establish
 such body after examining/addressing relevant issues including
 through consultation with ICAI. The matter was also considered by
 Companies Law Committee set up during June 2015 which
 submitted its report in February 2016 and The Hon'ble Standing
 Committee on finance (which examined the Companies
 (Amendment) Bill, 2016). After due examination and necessary
 approvals, the Government has approved the proposal for
 establishment of National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA)
 and creation of one post of Chairperson, three posts of full-time
 Members and one post of Secretary for NFRA on 28th February,
 2018. The Provisions of subsection (3) and (11) of section 132 of the
 Act have been brought into force w.e.f. 21.03.2018 alongwith NFRA
 (Manner of appointment and other Terms and Conditions of Service
 of Chairperson and Members) Rules, 2018." It was thereafter on 01 October 2018 that the NFRA came to be finally
 constituted. 25. Of significant importance is the judgment rendered by the
 Supreme Court in S. Sukumar vs. The Secretary, Institute of
 Chartered Accountants of India 10 wherein the following directions
 were passed: - 26. That takes us to the report of the Committee of Experts 11 which
 came to be constituted by the Ministry of Finance pursuant to the
 aforenoted direction in S. Sukumar. That report which came to be
 submitted on 25 October 2018 includes the following instructive
 passages with respect to the imperative need for the constitution of an
 independent audit regulator as well as the global trend of audit
 regulation and oversight being no longer tethered to peer review: - Determining whether an auditor is independent in fact as well as in
 appearance is complex. This is especially so because audit firms
 across jurisdictions often provide services as part of one common
 `network'. Consequently, separate firms belonging to the same
 network could provide audit as well as non-audit services to the
 same audit client or its holding company or subsidiaries across the
 same or different countries. This can give rise to the problem of
 conflict of interest where independence of the auditor may be
 compromised. Therefore, measures like sufficient disclosure on
 total fees, imposing cap on non-audit fees from the audit client,
 revisiting the scope of prohibited non-audit services are needed to
 address the issue of conflict of interest, especially at the network
 level. These networking arrangements also create an impression that the
 Indian audit firms which are affiliated with these international
 networks constitute Multi- national Accounting Firms (MAFs).
 However, on closer scrutiny it turns out that these Indian audit
 firms are set up as partnerships or Limited Liability Partnerships
 (LLPs) under Indian laws and all their partners are members of the
 ICAI. Therefore, there is neither any violation of section 29
 (reciprocity) nor any violation of section 25 (companies not to
 engage in accountancy) of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 .
 Neither can such Indian audit firms simply be equated to multi-
 national corporations. Consequently, the term `MAF' is a
 misnomer. However, such Indian audit firms admittedly follow various
 internal processes, policies and methodology adopted by their
 respective networks internationally. This is aimed at maintaining
 consistent standards in audit quality globally within a network.
 While such networks bring better business opportunities in a global
 economy, they should be subject to necessary checks and balances.
 Legal measures need to be supplemented with adequate
 institutional reforms. Time and again corporate scandals and
 accounting frauds have nudged institutional reforms across
 jurisdictions. One such fundamental reform that has happened
 globally in the last two decades is a shift away from the Self-
 Regulatory Organisation (SRO) model towards an independent
 regulatory structure for the audit profession.
 In the aftermath of Enron, the U.S. enacted the Sarbanes Oxley Act, W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 42 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 2002. The Supreme Court in its judgment dated February 23, 2018
 has referred to this statute to examine the need of an oversight
 mechanism for the audit profession. This law inter alia provided for
 the setting up of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
 (PCAOB) as an independent audit regulator to oversee the audits of
 public companies. Similarly, U.K., also has a two-tier structure,
 where the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) is the independent
 regulator for the audit profession. In the Indian context, the Satyam incident has been a wake-up call
 for policy- makers. Pursuant to the global trend of shift from SRO
 model to an independent regulatory model for audit profession, the Companies Act, 2013 provided for the setting up of the National
 Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA). However, the continued opposition to the establishment of NFRA
 has delayed the implementation of this critical reform.
 Consequently, although Companies Act, 2013 was enacted in
 August 2013, the section establishing NFRA was notified only on
 March 21, 2018 along with the NFRA Chairperson and Members
 Appointment Rules, 2018. Once NFRA becomes fully operational,
 it will be adequately equipped to handle the contemporary
 challenges in relation to auditors, audit firms and networks
 operating in India. Finally, it is important to facilitate a business-friendly environment
 for corporates as well as professionals in India. It is therefore vital
 that Indian laws and regulations on professional services keep pace
 with changing market dynamics. Opening up professional services
 to competition is necessary and therefore, audit firms should be
 allowed to advertise with some restrictions. Further, in a global
 economy use of international brand names for audit firms must be
 allowed. Laws must be rationalised to promote Multi-Disciplinary
 Practices (MDPs) to allow firms to offer a bouquet of high quality
 professional services at par with international standards. The
 Advocates Act, 1961 needs to be rationalised to facilitate
 development of Indian law firms as well as Indian audit firms into
 MDPs. Adopting these three measures i.e., advertising, branding
 and MDPs will not only enhance the standards of services offered
 to corporates, but also facilitate the audit firms to expand in
 size/operation enabling them to compete internationally." 27. It is the aforesaid legislative interventions which ultimately led to
 the NFRA coming to be established with the avowed objective of
 monitoring and enforcing compliance of companies auditing standards, W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 43 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 reviewing quality of service, suggesting measures required for
 improvement in the quality of service rendered by persons associated
 with the audit profession, the framing of recommendations pertaining to
 formulation and laying down of accounting and auditing policies,
 standards connected therewith and additionally being empowered to
 investigate either suo motu or on a reference made by the Union
 Government and to take and draw such proceedings as may be
 warranted to examine matters pertaining to professional or other
 misconduct. 28. In order to holistically examine the challenge which stands
 raised, we place hereinbelow a table which captures the various
 amendments which came to be made to Section 132 over the course of
 time and commencing from the introduction of Act 18 of 2013: - 30. As is evident from Rule 3 extracted hereinabove, the NFRA
 stands empowered to monitor and enforce compliance with accounting
 and auditing standards, overseeing the quality of service which is a
 function envisaged under Section 132(2) or undertake an investigation
 in terms of sub-section (4) of that provision and exercise regulatory
 powers on the following five classes of companies and bodies:- 31. Pursuant to the provisions contained in clauses (2) and (3) of
 Rule 3, every existing body corporate other than a company governed
 by that Rule is obliged to furnish the particulars of its auditors in Form
 NFRA-I. 32. Apart from the various functions and obligations which have
 been placed upon the NFRA by virtue of Section 132(2), one of its
 principal statutory responsibilities is to undertake an investigation and
 inquiry in respect of professional or other misconduct. This power
 flows from sub-section (4) of Section 132 which empowers the NFRA
 to undertake disciplinary action against a member or firm of chartered
 accountants registered under the CA Act . By virtue of the Proviso
 appended to Section 132(4), no institute or body is entitled to initiate or
 continue proceedings in respect of misconduct once the NFRA has
 commenced an investigation in terms of that Section. Section 132(4)
 thus confers a power upon the NFRA to initiate an investigation either
 suo moto or on a reference made to it by the Union Government. The
 penalties which it could impose, in case where professional or other
 misconduct is proved, is set out in Section 132(4)(c). As is manifest
 from a reading of that provision, the NFRA stands empowered to
 impose not just monetary penalties but also debar a member or the firm
 from being appointed as an auditor, internal auditor or undertaking an
 audit in respect of financial statements of any company or body
 corporate for a minimum period of six months or such larger period not
 exceeding 10 years as may be determined by the NFRA. 33. It becomes pertinent to note that the expression "professional or
 other misconduct" is not separately or independently defined or W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 59 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 explained by Section 132. In terms of the Explanation appearing at the
 end of sub-section (4), the said expression is to be understood and draw
 meaning from Section 22 of the CA Act. By virtue of Section 132(5) a
 person aggrieved by any order passed by the NFRA and traceable to
 Section 132(4)(c) is entitled to institute an appeal before the appellate
 tribunal. 34. It would be relevant to note that post amendments which had
 come to be introduced in Sections 21 , 21A and 21B of the CA Act, the
 said statute enabled the Director (Discipline) as well as the Board of
 Discipline and the Disciplinary Committee to require the member or the
 firm as the case may be to participate in proceedings that those
 authorities would have commenced in the course of investigation and
 inquiry. This is evident from a reading of Section 21(3) , 21A (3) and 21B(3) of the CA Act. Although and by virtue of Act 12 of 2022,
 Chapter IVA came to be incorporated in the CA Act which required
 every firm to be registered with the Council and for a register of firms
 to be maintained, the CA Act did not independently incorporate any
 provision in terms of which a firm could be prohibited or debarred from
 undertaking an audit or be subjected to penalties that are envisaged
 under Section 132(4)(c). 35. Section 20C of the CA Act, while stipulating situations where a
 name of a firm could be removed from the register did not envisage that
 power to be exercised basis a decision that may have been taken by
 either the Board of Discipline or the Disciplinary Committee. The only
 contingencies in which a firm could be prohibited or be subjected to a
 fine were those which find mention in Sections 21A(6) and 21B(6) . As W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 60 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 is manifest from a reading of those provisions, a firm could be visited
 with those penalties in case where it were found that a member who
 was a partner or owner of a firm had been repeatedly found guilty of
 misconduct. FACTUAL MATRIX 36. Having broadly sketched out the statutory scheme which
 prevails, this would constitute an appropriate juncture to notice some of
 the salient facts which preceded the institution of the present writ
 petitions. 37. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP 12 had issued an audit report for
 IL & SL Finance Service Limited 13 for Financial Year14 2017-18 on
 28 May 2018. The audit of IFIN was stated to be a joint audit which it
 conducted along with BSR and Associates LLP15 and the audit report
 itself being jointly signed by DHS and BSR. On 12 February 2019,
 NFRA addressed an email to DHS requiring it to submit the audit file
 and audit report drawn by it in respect of IFIN for FY 2017-18. In
 terms of a subsequent mail, the aforesaid request was reiterated by
 NFRA with it being observed that the aforesaid audit file was required
 to enable it to perform and undertake an initial review of the
 compliance by DHS with the applicable auditing standards. The audit
 record is stated to have been submitted by DHS to NFRA on 11 March
 2019. On 28 June 2019, NFRA conveyed its prima facie observations
 and conclusions to DHS. DHS submitted a response dated 03 August 12 DHS 13 IFIN 14 FY 15 BSR W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 61 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 2019 refuting the various prima facie observations which had been
 conveyed by NFRA. 38. Post the exchange of the aforesaid communications, the NFRA
 furnished the Draft Audit Quality Review Report16 on 25 September
 2019. It was in this report that NFRA asserted that it had on due
 consideration come to form the opinion that acts of professional and
 other misconduct stood committed by DHS, Mr. Udayan Sen, an
 erstwhile partner of the firm and who was the engagement and signing
 partner, Mr. Shrenik Baid, the additional partner on the IFIN Audit and
 Mr. Rukshad Daruvala, the Engagement Quality Control Review 17
 Partner. On the very same date, the Union Government is stated to
 have issued an order referring to various aspects relating to the affairs
 of IFIN as well as its subsidiary and associate companies for
 investigation by the NFRA in terms as contemplated under Section
 132(4) of the 2013 Act. 39. On 30 October 2019 some of the engagement team members who
 had performed the IFIN audit for FY 2017-18 made a representation
 before the NFRA. This was followed by written submissions being
 tendered by DHS to the NFRA in response to the various observations,
 comments and conclusions appearing in the DAQRR. NFRA,
 thereafter, circulated the Audit Quality Review Report18 where
 significant conclusions relating to fraud and collusion with IFIN
 management came to be alleged. On 17 January 2020, based on the
 conclusions contained in the aforenoted AQRR, NFRA issued a Show 16 DAQRR 17 EQCR 18 AQRR W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 62 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Cause Notice 19 under Section 132(4) upon Mr. Udayan Sen. Separate
 SCNs dated 24 and 28 January 2020 came to be issued against Mr.
 Shrenik Baid and Mr. Rukshad Daruvala, respectively. The aforenoted
 partners of DHS assailed the validity of the SCNs by filing writ
 petitions before this Court. Those writ petitions also questioned the
 constitutional validity of Section 132(4) of the Companies Act as well
 as the jurisdiction of NFRA to investigate matters of professional and
 other misconduct in respect of audits which had come to be concluded
 prior to Section 132 coming into force. 40. On 01 May 2020, NFRA furnished a Draft Supplementary
 Audit Quality Review Report20 to Mr. Udayan Sen pertaining to the
 audit conducted in respect of IFIN where additional allegations came to
 be levelled. A copy of the DSAQRR was also forwarded to DHS on 14
 May 2020. DHS on receipt of DSAQRR filed its reply on 25 July 2022.
 This was followed by NFRA issuing yet another Supplementary Audit
 Quality Review Report 21 in which it alleged that the appointment of
 DHS as the statutory auditor of IFIN was void. It was further alleged
 that the writ petitioner was not only guilty of professional and other
 misconduct but also that it had colluded with IFIN management. This
 was followed by the issuance of the notice dated 06 January 2021 under
 Section 132(4) in terms of which investigation was commenced. 41. The aforesaid action came to be assailed by way of a CM filed in
 the pending writ petition on which the following order came to be
 passed on 12 March 2021:- 42. The same was made absolute in terms of our order passed on 14
 November 2022 as seen hereinbelow:- 43. It is apposite to note that the original DAQRR and which
 culminated in the issuance of the AQRR dated 12 December 2019 apart
 from laying allegations pertaining to violation of SA570 and the issues
 emanating from the treatment of the audit of that entity as a going
 concern, additional allegations pertaining to the independence of the
 audit firm also came to be levelled. This becomes evident from a
 reading of the following parts of the AQRR:- (b) The Audit Firm has been in serious breach of the Code of
 Ethics; (c) These violations have continued over several years; (d) The violations have undoubtedly fatally compromised the
 independence in mind required of the Audit Firm;
 2.4 Role of Engagement Partner (EP)
 2.4.1 The prima facie conclusion of the NFRA, on the above
 matter, vide its communication dated 28th June, 2019, was that the
 Engagement Partner, CA. Udayan Sen, being the Engagement
 Partner as defined by para 6(b) of SQC1, had signed the audit
 report notwithstanding the documented facts that he had completely
 failed in discharging his obligations as Engagement Partner.
 2.4.2 This prima facie conclusion of the NFRA was based on the
 list of work papers reviewed by CA. Udayan Sen, which clearly
 shows that almost all the important work of audit, i.e., W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 67 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 independence evaluation, risk assessment, audit plan, audit
 procedures, audit evidence, communications with management or
 those charged with governance (TCWG) was not
 directed/supervised/reviewed by CA. Sen. 2.4.3 Further, the date-wise schedule of hours charged by CA.
 Udayan Sen to the engagement as Engagement Partner was not
 provided, nor was any reference in the Audit File provided in
 support thereof. The NFRA further noted that the Audit Firm's
 statement that "Udayan Sen has spent about 180 hours (though
 manually noted as 80 hours in the Audit File)" was self-
 contradictory and therefore, bereft of any meaning. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 2.4.5 NFRA has examined the above contentions of the Audit Firm
 and has concluded as follows: (c) Para 42(a) of SQC1 provides that policies and procedures
 should ensure that "the identity and role of the engagement partner
 are communicated to key members of the client's management and
 those charged with governance". Para 42(c) says procedures should
 ensure that "the responsibilities of the engagement partner are
 clearly defined and communicated to that partner". Assuming only
 for the sake of argument, and not in any way accepting the stand of
 the Audit Firm that there can be more than one Engagement Partner
 for an engagement in view of its patent illegality, the Audit Firm
 has not been able to show any provision in its policies relating to
 para 42(a) and 42(c) quoted above, or communications to TCWG,
 or the partners concerned, pursuant to these paras, in the Audit File
 that support its stand that there could be more than one
 Engagement Partner for any Engagement. (d) The definition of Engagement Partner clearly refers to a single
 individual (this is so in all the cases where SQC1 or SAs use this
 term) who bears ultimate responsibility for the performance of the
 engagement and the report that is issued on behalf of the firm. SA
 220 clearly provides that the Engagement Partner shall take
 responsibility for the overall quality on each audit engagement to
 which the partner is assigned (para 8). Further paras in the same SA
 elaborate on the responsibilities of the Engagement Partner. Having
 more than one Engagement Partner may or may not enhance audit
 quality. In the present case, the failure to discharge the role of
 Engagement Partner by CA. Udayan Sen clearly shows that audit
 quality has badly suffered. (e) The "integral" designation of Shrenik Baid as the
 engagement/review partner also discloses a great confusion and
 lack of clarity about the respective roles of an Engagement Partner
 and a review partner. (f) For all the above reasons, NFRA considers that CA. Udayan
 Sen alone can be accepted as Engagement Partner for this
 engagement in terms of the definition provided in SQC1 and the
 SAs. 2.4.6 NFRA has further examined the matter relating to aspects of
 the engagement that were directed/supervised/reviewed by CA.
 Udayan Sen in his capacity as Engagement Partner. Contrary to the
 statement made at document 5/page 10 of the Audit Firm's
 response, WP No. 29702 (Manual) Closing Procedures Check list
 has not been initialed by CA. Udayan Sen. CA. Udayan Sen's
 initials are seen only in that part of the WP No. 29702 which is
 designated as the closing memorandum. This is in the form of a
 report sent by CA. Shrenik. Baid to CA. Udayan Sen. This paper is
 a summary of the procedures adopted during the course of the
 audit. The very fact that CA. Shrenik Baid had to send such a
 memorandum to CA. Udayan Sen is itself proof that CA. Udayan
 Sen had not participated in any of the audit processes listed therein.
 This is for reason that if CA. Sen had indeed participated in the
 listed procedures etc., his presence there would have been
 automatically recorded and the need for such a closing procedures
 memorandum would not have arisen. No further evidence has been
 provided by the Audit Firm to counter the conclusions of the
 NFRA that CA. Udayan Sen was not involved with almost all the
 important work of the audit engagement. 2.4.7 Also, the Audit Firm's submission to the NFRA vide letter
 dated July 17, 2019 states that CA. Udayan Sen was not using the
 time recording system and hence his time spent on this assignment
 is not available. No estimate of the same was given as it was said to W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 69 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 relate to a period many years back. Hence, the Audit Firm and the
 Engagement Partner are found noncompliant with requirement of
 keeping records for minimum seven years as per paras 82- 83 of
 SQC1, and monitoring the workload and availability of the EP as
 per para 43. Further, the familiarity threat and violation of para 27
 of SQC1 cannot be ruled out based on the submitted responses.
 2.4.8 On consideration of all the above facts, the NFRA (a) is reinforced in its conclusion that CA. Udayan Sen, being the
 Engagement Partner as defined in para 6(b) of SQC1, had signed
 the audit report notwithstanding the documented facts that he had
 completely failed in discharging his obligations as Engagement
 Partner; (b) Concludes that the Audit Firm committed a grievous violation
 of SQC1 and SA 220 in naming two partners as Engagement
 Partners for this Engagement, thereby leading to disastrous loss of
 accountability and total disregard of all principles of Quality
 Control. 2.5 Communication with Those Charged With Governance
 (TCWG)
 2.5.1 The prima facie conclusion of the NFRA on the above matter,
 vide its communication dated 28th June, 2019 was that: Where matters have been communicated in writing, the auditor
 shall retain a copy of the communication as part of the audit
 documentation. Documentation of oral communication may include
 a copy of the minutes prepared by the entity retained as part of the
 audit documentation where those minutes are an appropriate record
 of the communication". (d) Apart from the fact that matters that were required to be
 communicated (para 10 to 13 of SA 260) had not, in fact, been
 communicated, this was also a case where there were serious issues
 arising out of the RBI's inspection report that needed to be brought
 to the attention of TCWG and discussed with them before final
 decisions on audit evidence, presentation and disclosure in the
 financial statement etc. were taken. No facts have been provided by
 the Audit Firm that the requirements of SA 260 and other relevant
 SAs have been complied with by the Audit Firm. (e) Similarly, as regards the argument that all work was done in the
 company's office, and hence communication with the management
 was on a daily basis, is concerned, this argument, logically, would
 mean that no documentation at all would be required.
 Hence, the unacceptability of such an argument is obvious.
 2.5.4 NFRA is, therefore, reinforced in its conclusion that the Audit
 Firm has grossly failed in complying with the Requirements of the
 SAs pertaining to communications with TCWG and the
 management. 2.6 Evaluation of Risk of Material Misstatement (ROMM)
 Matters
 2.6.1 In its prima facie conclusions dated 28th June, 2019, NFRA
 had, inter-alia, stated that: There are significant contradictions in the assessment of ROMM
 which lead to the conclusion that the assessment has been carried
 out in a very casual manner as to result in a complete sham. (d) WP No.13501 on ROMM provides a staggering conclusion "No
 fraud risk factors or engagement risk have been identified". (e) Evidence of mismatch in the date of meeting and the date of
 communication between the Engagement Team and Engagement
 Partner has proved that assessment of ROMM is a complete sham.
 Study of WP No.13501 shows that while the meeting for discussion
 took place on 13th October 2017, the matters were already
 communicated to all concerned in September 2017. (f) Based upon the analysis of the working papers, it was observed
 that certain important issues having been identified from the
 whistle blower complaints and RBI inspection reports have not
 been evaluated at all for the purpose of evaluation of ROMM. (g) The Audit Firm has changed the risk assessment of the audit
 assignment from "Normal" to "Greater than Normal" (GTN)
 through a memo for change in engagement risk to GTN, taking into
 consideration four factors. Considering the sequence of events
 relating to the RBI inspections, it must have been assessed as
 "Much Greater Than Normal" (MGTN) in the previous FY 2016-
 17 itself. (h) It was observed that the audit responses planned to reduce or
 mitigate the identified risks and the actions taken based on the audit
 responses to such identified risks are insufficient, improper and
 inadequately carried out. (i) Numerous details from the working papers have been provided
 to substantiate the above conclusions of the NFRA. For the sake of
 brevity and avoiding unnecessary repetition, the details of the same
 are not extracted and re-produced here. (a) The Audit Firm has clearly indulged in a deliberate
 misrepresentation of a material fact; (b) There has been a complete lack of clarity, and utter confusion
 has prevailed, in the ROMM assessment; (c) Important aspects of the auditee company's situation, such as its
 SI-NBFC status, the very disturbing RBI Inspection Reports on the
 company, the wide discrepancies in reporting of NPAs, etc., have
 not been given adequate importance in the ROMM assessment; (d) Accordingly, the audit responses have been grossly inadequate; (e) Such procedures as have been performed have had no link to the
 real ROMM; (f) In crucial matters, the Audit Firm has relied completely on the
 management's representations; (g) The Audit Firm has totally failed in communicating to
 TCWG/the management the key issues arising out of the audit.
 2.7 RBI Inspection Matters - TTSL Shares and Derivatives
 Assets
 2.7.1 With regard to the above matter, the NFRA had
 communicated the following prima facie
 observations/comments/conclusions in its letter dated 28th June,
 2019: 2.8 RBI Inspection Matters : NOF - CRAR W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 74 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 2.8.1 With regard to the above matter, the NFRA had
 communicated the following prima facie
 observations/comments/conclusions in its letter dated 28th June,
 2019: 2.9 Management's Written Representations relating to RBI
 Inspections
 2.9.1 In its prima facie conclusions dated 28th June, 2019, the
 NFRA has stated that: Furthermore, the fact that the management has provided reliable
 written representations does not affect the nature or extent of other
 audit evidence that the auditor obtains about the fulfilment of
 management's responsibilities, or about specific assertions (para 3). (ii) In particular, if written representations are inconsistent with
 other audit evidence, the auditor shall perform audit procedures to
 attempt to resolve the matter (para 16). (iii) The Auditor shall disclaim an opinion on the financial
 statements in accordance with SA 705, if there is sufficient doubt
 that the written representations are not reliable (para 19). (c) Clearly, the requirements of SA 580 needed the Auditor to
 obtain corroborating evidence for the matters covered by the
 written representation before accepting the same. Clearly, the
 claims of the management about the outcomes of the meetings that
 they had with RBI were completely inconsistent with the stand of
 the RBI that had been in evidence throughout the period when this
 matter was under discussion. In other words, the written
 representation forwarding the unacknowledged minutes of the
 meetings with the RBI officers was inconsistent with this
 overwhelming past evidence, and the Auditor was duty bound in
 terms of para 3 and para 16 of SA 580 to perform other audit
 procedures to attempt to resolve the matter. And in the event of
 being unable to resolve the matter, a disclaimer of opinion needed
 to have been made in line with para 19 of SA 580. 2.9.4 The Audit Firm has said that the Audit Committee had
 considered the management update on their meetings with RBI
 officials and as such, the Audit Firm is entitled to rely on the
 information provided to them. It is seen that the said Audit
 Committee meeting was held on 28.05.2018, the date on which the
 financial statements were approved by the Audit Committee and
 the Board and also communicated to the Stock Exchange (after
 having duly notified the Stock Exchange in advance about the date
 and agenda of such meetings). Clearly, no significance can be W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 77 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 attached to the supposed "ratification" by the Audit Committee of
 the management update as at this stage. 2.10 Evaluation of the work of Management's Expert
 2.10.1In its prima facie conclusions dated 28th June, 2019, NFRA
 had, inter-alia, stated that: 2.10.3The NFRA has examined the above contentions of the Audit
 Firm and has concluded as follows: 2.10.4 With reference to the compliance with the requirements of
 SA 500 in relation to using the work of a management's expert,
 NFRA has examined the working papers referred in the response of
 the Audit Firm. The Audit Firm has provided the memos prepared
 by the Internal Fair Value Specialists of the Firm or Associate
 Concern of the firm as well the valuation report provided by the
 various valuation experts. 2.10.5 On a consideration of all the above, NFRA does not wish to
 pursue this matter further at this stage. However, if, on a further
 examination of the matter, it becomes necessary to take any action,
 the matter will be considered at that stage. 2.11 Evaluation of the Going Concern Assumption: The discussion with the management and enquiry with them by the
 SA required, had to be complied with and the same had to be
 documented as per the requirements of the SA relating to
 documentation. By their own admission, the Audit Firm has not
 conducted any such discussions and enquiry, neither is any proof of
 such discussion and enquiry available in the Audit File. (d) The attempt to draw support for what the Audit Firm has done
 from para A8 of SA 570 (the para stands renumbered as A9 in The
 Revised SA 570 only) it itself a gross distortion of what is
 contemplated and permitted by that paragraph. The context referred
 to is only a situation where management has not made any detailed
 analysis. It does not cover a situation as this where, admittedly, no
 analysis at all was available. (e) The contention of the Audit Firm that the Independent Directors
 of the company were, by all, by all accounts knowledgeable in
 financial and accounting matters, and that the Audit Firm had the
 right to rely on them and that it was, in any case, their (Independent
 Directors) responsibility to alert the auditors in case they had any
 doubt about the going concern assumptions is clearly evidence of
 the Audit Firm's gross dereliction of duty. Taken to its logical
 conclusion, this argument can be used to support a complete
 abdication of its prescribed duties by Audit Firm.
 2.11.4 As far as action plan for compliance with the RBI guidelines
 on NOF is concerned, the Audit Firm had initially informed the
 NFRA that they had discussed with the management and
 understood the plans. They (the Management) had proposed to
 comply with the RBI Requirements by March 31st, 2019. Since no
 such plan is available in the Audit File, this claim of the Audit Firm
 was dismissed by NFRA as being false. The Audit Firm has replied
 saying that the said plan was placed before the Audit Committee
 and approved by them and thereafter placed before the Board on
 May 28, 2018. However, since the Board wanted to submit a more W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 80 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 detailed plan to the RBI, they had sought time till June 30, 2018.
 The Audit Firm contends that this cannot be construed to imply that
 the plan did not exist on May 28, 2018. In this connection, it is
 being clarified (though a plain reading of NFRA's earlier
 contention should not require any clarification at all) that it was
 never contended by NFRA that a plan did not exist on May 28,
 2018. This issue had not come up for NFRA's consideration at all.
 What was instead asserted by NFRA is that no such plan was found
 in the Audit File and therefore could not have been discussed with
 the management on the grounds that any discussion about such a
 plan between the Audit Firm and the management would also have
 had to be documented appropriately in the Audit File and the Audit
 Firm's conclusion thereon also duly recorded. Since no such
 evidence was available in the Audit File, NFRA had concluded that
 the Audit Firm's claim that they had discussed the plans with the
 management and understood the same, was patently false. Some
 details of the alleged plan have been placed at pages 51 and 52 in
 response to para 11 and repeated again at pages 68 to 69 of the
 same response. Both these references and details have to be
 considered only as an afterthought and a subsequent creation of
 audit evidence since there is no substance of these matters in the
 Audit File. The NFRA, therefore, is reinforced in its conclusion
 that the statement about discussions with the management on the
 compliance plan is false. 2.11.5 On a consideration of all the above, NFRA concludes that
 the Audit Firm has completely failed to obtain sufficient,
 appropriate audit evidence to assess the management's use of the
 going concern assumption. 2.12 Documentation of EQCR Processes
 2.12.1 The prima facie conclusions of the NFRA on the above
 matter vide its communication dated 28th June, 2019, inter-alia,
 were that (a) The work papers do not identify or document any discussion
 about significant matters between EQCR team and the Engagement
 Partner. (b) The EQCR was not carried out in a timely manner at
 appropriate stages during the engagement. (c) The EQCR required an in-depth examination to be made of the
 issues arising out of the RBI inspection and directions.
 Documenting the EQCR process in this connection, and the
 conclusions arrived at could not be reduced to mere check box
 "Yes" or "No" responses. (d) Modification carried out in the RoMM mentioning the same as
 both "adverse" and "EOM" is internally inconsistent and self-
 contradictory. (e) The EQCR has not noted the absence of any communication at
 all between the ET and TCWG. (f) A major inconsistency between the time said to have been spent
 on the EQCR by the partner and the Director compared with the
 dates of the EQCR indent and the documents said to have been
 reviewed by them. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 2.12.3 The NFRA has examined the above contentions of the Audit
 Firm and has concluded as follows: 2.12.4 NFRA, therefore, concludes that the Engagement Quality
 Control Review was not carried out in the manner stipulated by
 SQC1 and other applicable SAs." 44. The DSAQRR which thereafter came to be issued on 01 May
 2020 proceeded to lay various allegations with respect to the treatment
 of investments and a purported violation of the obligations flowing
 from SA500 and SA200. These allegations pertained to the valuation
 ascribed to investments and related party transactions as well the
 acceptance of those declarations in the course of an audit. 45. The writ petitions which initially came to be preferred before this
 Court were those instituted by Mr. Udayan Sen and Mr. Shrenik Baid,
 who were Engagement Partners in DHS in respect of the audit and Mr.
 Rukhsad Daruvala who was the EQCR Partner in respect of the said
 audit. When those writ petitions were initially entertained by the Court,
 on 21 May 2020 interim orders were passed to the effect that if any
 final orders come to be framed by the NFRA pursuant to the SCNs
 under Section 132(4) of the 2013 Act, the same would not be given
 effect to till the next date. On 26 June 2020 the order of 21 May 2020
 thereafter came to be extended further. 46. On the writ petition preferred by DHS, the Court on 28 January
 2021 had initially provided that any action that may be taken by the
 respondents would be subject to the outcome of the writ petition. On 12
 March 2021 while considering CM No. 9896/2021, however, the Court
 provided that the respondents would stand restrained from precipitating
 the matter till the next date of listing. It is these interim orders which
 have continued on the writ petition. 47. It would also be apposite to briefly take note of the facts as they
 obtain in WP(C) 11737/2021. SRBC & Co LLP22, the writ petitioner,
 is a firm of CAs which was appointed as the joint auditor of IN&FS
 Transportation Networks Limited 23 for FY 2017-18. It is its case, that
 since certain other entities stood appointed as statutory auditors, a
 limited review alone for the quarter ending 30 June 2018 was
 performed by it jointly with those auditors. It is further disclosed that in
 the Annual General Meeting held on 29 August 2017 the other joint
 auditor rotated out and as a result of which SRBC came to be appointed
 as the statutory auditor for FY 2017-18. 48. It is its case that in the course of undertaking the limited review
 for the quarter ending 30 June 2018, SRBC had observed that ITNL had
 incurred losses with no significant progress being made with respect to
 re-financing of loans, realization of claims and monetization of assets.
 It had also alluded to the subsidiaries of ITNL who had filed notices of
 cure before relevant authorities and being unable to service their debt
 resulting in defaults and which in turn had led to the credit rating of the
 company being downgraded by ICRA. It further asserts that it had in its
 limited review report itself included a paragraph highlighting material
 uncertainties relating to ITNL's ability to continue as a going concern
 and was one of the first auditing firms to highlight this issue. SRBC
 then alludes to the audit quality review which was initiated by the
 NFRA in February 2019. 49. Pursuant to the initiation of that review, the petitioner is stated to
 have submitted the audit file and records to NFRA on 22 March 2019. SRBC 23 ITNL W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 84 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 This was followed by communications of 17 May 2019 and 03 July
 2019 by NFRA calling upon SRBC to respond to the various queries
 raised therein. After a detailed exchange of correspondence in the
 course of that audit quality review the NFRA issued its Prima Facie
 Conclusions on 24 March 2020. This was followed by Supplementary
 Prima Facie Conclusions which were issued on 17 April 2020. The
 summary of the Prima Facie Conclusions are reproduced hereinbelow:- The integrity of the Audit File is questionable due to tampering and
 inconsistency pointed out at several places in the PFC Report." 50. The Supplementary Prima Facie Conclusions then proceeded to
 observe as under:- Oct-2019. Following are the key responses: 7. Further, NFRA observed the following from examination of the
 Audit Firm's working papers in CANVAS, and the Audit File : 8. Based on the above-mentioned observations, NFRA
 communicated to the Audit Firm vide letter dated 24-Jan-2020, that
 NFRA would be engaging NFRA's IT consultants to examine the
 Audit firm's IT systems, and processes related thereto, to verify the
 integrity of the electronic portion of Audit File. NFRA, through its
 IT consultants, conducted an in-person review of the Audit Firm's
 IT systems and procedures of Audit File documentation and
 archival, along with the respective controls and monitoring
 procedures. The Audit Firm's IT experts as well as Audit Partner
 were present to demonstrate and respond to NFRA's queries. The
 Audit Firm's team was asked the queries as listed in Annexure IV,
 for which the Audit Firm's team requested time to come back
 stating the following reasons: b. The Audit Firm requires time to consult with the global IT
 team, in order to respond to NFRA's queries. Subsequently the
 Audit Firm had provided replies to the queries vide their
 emails dated 25- Feb-2020 and 13-Mar-2020. 9. During the in-person review, and after examining the replies
 furnished, the NFRA's IT consultants observed following
 vulnerabilities in the electronic platform (EY Canvas Application)
 with respect to the attributes mentioned in the aforesaid Para 3: 10. It is, therefore, evident from the above that EY Canvas
 application, which is the only audit documentation system used by
 the Audit Firm, completely fails to ensure even the minimum
 controls essential to meet the requirements of SQC 1 and SA 230 as
 detailed in Para 1 above. The fundamental aspects of integrity of
 Audit Files, accountability of the firm and its personnel,
 maintaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the audit
 planning, performance and basis for conclusions for achieving
 audit objectives are seriously compromised as a result. 11. As discussed above, NFRA had pointed out several
 discrepancies in audit documentation that raised doubts about the
 authenticity and reliability of the audit documentation. The details
 given above show that the deficiencies are systemic and structural
 in nature and arise substantially from a complete disregard for basic
 principles of IT security in the software used. This renders the audit
 documentation completely unfit for the intended purpose 12. NFRA, further, concludes that there is a complete failure of
 the Audit Firm's SQC policy to monitor and control the
 integrity of the audit files. Consequently, the audit files
 maintained by the auditor are not found to meet the compliance
 requirements of SA 230. In having not rectified these deficiencies,
 the Audit firm is guilty of serious professional misconduct." 51. This led to the issuance of the DAQRR on 08 March 2021. The
 petitioner is stated to have submitted response to the DAQRR on 10
 July 2021. An oral hearing in connection with the above is stated to
 have been held on 08 September 2021 and whereafter the AQRR came
 to be published on 23 September 2021. The summary of the AQRR is,
 as captured in para 1.8, extracted hereinbelow:- 52. Since the facts which formed the subject matter of the writ
 petition preferred by Rukshad Daruvala have been taken note of while
 dealing with the writ petition preferred by DHS, we do not propose to
 reiterate the chronology of events preceding the issuance of the SCN
 under Section 132(4) of the 2013 Act. BROAD STRUCTURE UNDER THE CA ACT 53. Before we proceed to chronicle the rival submissions which were
 addressed before us, it would perhaps be apposite to take note of the
 salient statutory provisions in the context of which the challenge stands
 raised. We had in the preceding parts of this decision noticed the
 relevant provisions of the CA Act which are concerned with the subject
 of misconduct and the procedure for taking disciplinary action against a
 member of the Council. Although we had an occasion to notice the
 existence of the Misconduct Rules, 2007 and the 1988 Regulations, this
 would appear to be an appropriate juncture to notice some of the
 provisions incorporated in those statutory instruments. The Misconduct
 Rules, 2007 define a "firm" to be one registered with the ICAI under
 the relevant 1988 Regulations. As was noticed by us hereinabove, the
 Chapter pertaining to registration of firms had come to be introduced in
 the CA Act by virtue of Act 12 of 2022. In terms of Rule 3 of the
 Misconduct Rules, 2007 a complaint referable to Section 21 of the CA W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 96 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Act was to be filed and presented before the Director (Discipline) in
 Form I. Rule 3 reads as follows:- Explanation. − In the case of a bank or financial institution, the
 general resolution or power of attorney authorizing an officer
 holding a particular position to file complaints on behalf of the
 bank or financial institution, shall be deemed to be the specific
 resolution passed by the bank or financial institution concerned, for
 the purposes of these rules. (5) In case of complaints filed by any Government, statutory
 authority, bank or financial institution, a change in the name of
 complainant at any later stage, shall be duly supported by a specific
 authorization made by an officer holding a post equivalent to that
 of the original complainant. (6) Every complaint received by the Directorate shall be
 acknowledged by ordinary post together with an acknowledgement
 number." 54. As is evident from a reading of Rule 3(1) a complaint under Section 21 of CA Act was envisaged to be one directed against the
 conduct of either a member or a firm. In terms of sub-rule (2) and (3) of
 Rule 3, a complaint could also be preferred by the Union or State
 Governments or even by a statutory authority, such as, the Reserve
 Bank of India or the Securities and Exchange Board of India. 55. Rule 5 of the Misconduct Rules, 2007 proceeds to spell out the
 requirements for registration of the complaint and a preliminary
 examination thereof by the Director (Discipline). Apart from a written
 complaint, which could be entertained by the Director (Discipline),
 Rule 7 also expanded the scope of the investigation or inquiry that
 could be undertaken by providing for any written information
 containing allegations against a member or a firm being treated as
 information received under Section 21 of the CA Act and consequently
 liable to be processed accordingly. 56. The procedure of investigation was set out in Chapter 3 of the
 Misconduct Rules, 2007. Rule 8 made the following pertinent
 provisions guiding the consideration of a complaint by the Director
 (Discipline) either against an individual member or a firm:- (5) On perusal of the complaint, the respondent's written statement,
 if any, and rejoinder of the complainant, if any, the Director may call
 for such additional particulars or documents connected therewith
 either from the complainant or the respondent or any third party or
 parties, as he may consider appropriate: 57. Upon conclusion of examination of the complaint the Director
 (Discipline) was enjoined to follow the procedure as stipulated in Rule 9. The said provision is extracted hereinbelow:- 58. In terms of Rule 14 the Board of Discipline was required to
 follow a summary procedure for disposal of cases as is evident from the
 following:- Explanation 1.− For the purpose of this rule, the appearance
 includes, unless and otherwise directed, appearance by an advocate
 or through any authorized representative, who may be a Chartered
 Accountant, Cost Accountant or Company Secretary.
 [Explanation 2 - For the purpose of this rule, the appearance also
 includes the appearance through video-conference, modalities for
 which may be as formulated by the Institute from time to time.]
 (7) On the date of hearing, if the respondent, in spite of the service
 of notice, under sub-rule (6), does not appear either in person 1[or
 through video conference in terms of the modalities formulated
 under these Rules] or through his authorized representative, the
 Board of Discipline may proceed ex-parte and pass such orders as
 it may think fit or direct fresh notice to be served.
 (8) The Board of Discipline may, on such terms as it thinks fit, and
 at any stage of the proceedings, adjourn the hearing: 59. By virtue of Rule 15, once the Board of Discipline had come to
 arrive at a finding of guilt in terms contemplated under Rule 14(9), the
 said authority was obligated to afford an opportunity of hearing to the
 respondent before proceeding to pass an order of punishment as
 contemplated under Section 21A(3) of the CA Act. The functioning of
 the Disciplinary Committee was regulated by similar provisions
 enshrined in the Misconduct Rules, 2007. Since it would be Rule 18
 which would be pertinent for our purposes, the same is extracted
 hereunder:- [Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this rule, the appearance
 includes, unless and otherwise directed, appearance by an advocate
 or through any authorized representative, who may be a Chartered
 Accountant, Cost Accountant or Company Secretary.
 [Explanation 2. - For the purpose of this rule, the appearance also
 includes the appearances through video-conference, modalities for
 which may be as formulated by the Institute from time to time.]
 (7) During the first hearing, the Committee shall read out the
 charge or charges to the respondent along with the summary of
 prima facie opinion arrived at by the Director, and ask the
 respondent whether he pleads guilty to the charge or charges made
 against him: 60. Proceeding on lines akin to Rule 15 the Disciplinary Committee,
 upon arriving at a finding of guilt, was enjoined to follow the procedure
 as prescribed in Rule 19 and which reads as under: - 61. Turning then to the 1988 Regulations, of relevance would be Regulation 12 and which was concerned with the complaints and
 inquiries relating to misconduct pertaining to proceedings initiated or
 pending prior to 17 November 2006. Regulation 12 is extracted
 hereinbelow:- Explanation - A notice to the firm shall be deemed to be a notice to
 all the members who are partners or employees of that firm.
 (7) A member against whom the complaint is made (hereinafter
 referred to as the Respondent) may, within fourteen days of the
 service of a copy of the complaint under sub-regulation (6), or
 within such time as may be extended by the Secretary, forward to
 the Secretary in triplicate, a written statement in his defence
 verified in the same manner as the complaint. (8) On receipt of the written statement, if any, the Secretary shall
 send a copy thereof to the Complainant and the Complainant may, W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 107 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 within 14 days of the service of a copy of the written statement, or
 within such time as may be extended by the Secretary, forward to
 the Secretary, in triplicate, his rejoinder on the written statement,
 duly verified in the same manner as the complaint.
 (9) On receipt of the Complainant's rejoinder, if any, the Secretary
 shall send a copy thereof to the Respondent and the Respondent
 may within 14 days of the service of a copy of the rejoinder, or
 within such time as may be extended by the Secretary, forward to
 the Secretary, in triplicate, his comments on the rejoinder, duly
 verified in the same manner as the complaint. (10) On a perusal of the complaint, the written statement, if any, the
 Complainant's rejoinder on the written statement, if any, and the
 Respondent's comments on the Complainant's rejoinder, if any, the
 President may call for such additional particulars or documents
 connected therewith either from the complainant or the Respondent
 as he may consider expedient. (11) (i) If on a perusal of the complaint, the written statement, if
 any, the Complainant's rejoinder to the written statement, if any,
 and the Respondent's comments on the Complainant's rejoinder, if
 any, and other relevant documents, the Council is prima facie of
 opinion that the Respondent is guilty of professional and or other
 misconduct, the Council shall cause an enquiry to be made in the
 matter by the Disciplinary Committee. (ii) If, on the other hand, the Council is prima facie of opinion that
 the Respondent is not guilty of any professional or other
 misconduct, the complaint shall be filed and the Complainant and
 the Respondent shall be informed accordingly.
 (12) (i) Any notice issued by the Secretary under this regulation
 shall be sent to the member or the firm, as the case may be, by
 registered post with acknowledgement due. (ii) If any such notice is returned unserved with an endorsement to
 the effect that the addressee had refused to accept the notice, the
 notice shall be deemed to have been served. (iii) If the notice is returned with an endorsement to the effect that
 the addressee cannot be found at the address given, the Secretary
 shall ask the Complainant to supply to him the correct address of
 the member or the firm, as the case may be. (iv) A fresh notice shall be issued to the member or the firm at the
 correct address. (13) The provision relating to a notice shall apply 'mutatis
 mutandis' to a letter." 62. Although supplementary and additional provisions pertaining to
 inquiries and disciplinary action stood embodied in Regulations 15, 16
 & 17, we do not deem it appropriate to extract those provisions here
 since those too were confined to proceedings initiated or pending prior
 to 17 November 2006. NFRA RULES 63. While we had an occasion to notice Section 132 as embodied in
 the Companies Act in the earlier parts of this decision, for purposes of
 completeness we now turn our gaze upon the NFRA Rules and to the
 salient provisions contained therein. Rule 2 which constitutes the
 definition clause defines the word "division" in clause (g) as under:- 64. The functions and duties of the NFRA are elaborated upon and
 spelt out in Rule 4 which reads as follows:- 65. Rule 7 speaks of the functions which the authority is obliged to
 discharge for the purposes of monitoring and enforcing compliance
 with Accounting Standards. That provision reads as under:- compliances on its website and in such other manner as it considers
 fit, unless it has reasons not to do so in the public interest and it
 records the reasons in writing. (4) Where the Authority finds or has reason to believe that any
 accounting standard has or may have been violated, it may decide
 on the further course of investigation or enforcement action
 through its concerned Division." 66. As an extension of the power that stands conferred upon the
 NFRA by virtue of Section 132(2)(b) of the Companies Act which is
 concerned with the monitoring and enforcement of compliance with
 Accounting Standards, Rule 8 makes the following provisions:- complainces on its website and in such other manner as it considers
 fit, unless it has reasons not to do so in the public interest and it
 records the reasons in writing. (6) The Authority shall not publish proprietary or confidential
 information, unless it has reasons to do so in the public interest and
 it records the reasons in writing. (7) The Authority may send a separate report containing proprietary
 or confidential information to the Central Government for its
 information. (8) Where the Authority finds or has reason to believe that any law
 or professional or other standard has or may have been violated by
 an auditor, it may decide on the further course of investigation or
 enforcement action through its concerned Division." 67. Similarly, with regard to the statutory obligation of the NFRA to
 oversee the quality of service rendered by professionals associated with
 auditing, Rule 9 provides as follows:- 68. The power of investigation and the conduct of disciplinary
 proceedings are regulated by Rules 10 and 11, which are reproduced
 hereinbelow:- 11. Disciplinary proceedings. (1) Based on the reference
 received from the Central Government or findings of its monitoring
 or enforcement or oversight activities, or on the basis of material
 otherwise available on record, if the Authority believes that
 sufficient cause exists to take actions permissible under sub-section
 (4) of section 132, it shall refer the matter to the concerned W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 113 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 division, which shall cause a show-cause notice to be issued to the
 auditor. (2) The show-cause notice shall be in writing, and shall, inter alia,
 state- (a) the provisions of the Act or rules under which it has been
 issued; auditing standards thereunder allegedly violated, or the
 manner in which the public interest is allegedly affected; (e) the actions that the Authority proposes to take or the
 directions it proposes to issue if the allegations are
 established; (f) the time limit and the manner in which the auditor is required
 to respond to the show-cause notice; (g) the consequences of failure to respond to the show-cause
 notice; and (h) the procedure to be followed for disposal of the show-cause
 notice. (3) The show-cause notice shall enclose copies of documents relied
 upon and extracts of relevant portions from the report of
 investigation or other records. (4) The show-cause notice shall be served on the auditor in the
 following manner, namely - (a) by sending it to the auditor at the address provided by him or
 provided by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
 (if required by the Authority) by registered post with
 acknowledgement due; or (b) by an appropriate electronic means to the email address of the
 auditor provided by him or it or provided by the Institute of
 Chartered Accountants of India (if required by the
 Authority): banking finance company to the Reserve Bank of India; (iv) in the case of a bank or a non-banking finance company to
 the Reserve Bank of India; (v) in the case of an insurance company to the Insurance
 Regulatory and Development Authority of India; (vi) in case the auditor is resident outside India to concerned
 regulator of such country; and the same shall be published on
 the website of the Authority." ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES BY NFRA 69. Pausing here, we also take note of a salient aspect which was
 noticed by us in our order of 12 September 2023. It becomes pertinent
 to note that during the course of hearing of this batch of writ petitions it
 had been alleged by the petitioners that the complement of persons
 which had formed the opinion that disciplinary proceedings were liable
 to be initiated against the petitioners was the same or identical to that
 which had authored the AQRR. The petitioners had in that context laid
 stress upon the expression "division" as it occurs in various parts of Section 132 of the Companies Act as well as the NFRA Rules to
 contend that the statute clearly contemplated a division of functions
 between the review of an audit and the formation of opinion to initiate
 disciplinary proceedings. 70. The respondents, on the other hand, had contended that the
 executive body of the NFRA was clearly entitled in law to discharge all
 functions and duties as placed upon the NFRA as a whole. It was in the
 aforesaid context that we had called upon the respondents to file an
 additional affidavit and to disclose complete details of the personnel
 who had penned the AQRR in each case as well as the complement of
 persons who had initiated action under Section 132(4). 71. The order dated 12 September 2023 is reproduced hereinbelow:- 72. Pursuant to the aforesaid order an additional affidavit came to be
 filed by the NFRA and where the following disclosures are made:- c) NFRA's letter dated 25.04.2019
 was sent to the Engagement Partner
 seeking a list of related parties and
 Audit/Non-Audit revenue m
 stipulated format on Affidavit. d) NFRA's letter dated 02.05.2019,
 containing a Questionnaire on
 matters observed in the Audit File,
 was sent via email on 02.05.2019 to
 the Engagement Partner seeking
 replies to the same. e) Reply of the Engagement Partner
 dated 08.05.2019 to NFRA letter
 dated 25.04.2019 was received on W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 119 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 affidavit and also received via email
 from CA Shrenik Baid, Partner DHS. f) Reply by the Engagement Partner
 to NFRA's Letter dated 02.05.2019
 received on 13.05.2019. g) NFRA issued a letter dated
 28.06.2019 to the Engagement
 Partner conveying its prima facie
 observations/comments/conclusions
 (PFC) on the various issues in the
 Questionnaire. Also, NFRA
 requested that the Engagement
 Partner, Sh. Udayan Sen, and the
 EQCR Partner, Sh. Rukshad
 Daruvala, or their respective
 authorised representative from the
 Engagement Team and the EQCR
 Team respectively, be present in
 person in the NFRA office to explain
 replies to PFC. h) Auditor requested NFRA through
 his letter dated 02.07.2019 to grant
 time till 30.07.2019 to provide
 comprehensive responses, after
 which to provide a date for an in- person meeting at which they may
 assist with any further clarifications
 if required. i) NFRA issued a letter dated
 05.07.2019 granting time up to
 5.8.2019 and the opportunity to
 explain the issues in person. j) Through letter dated 02.08.2019,
 Engagement Partner replied to
 NFRA's prima facie observations in
 its letter dated 28.06.2019. k) Draft AQRR Note was initiated by
 Secretary-NFRA on 25.09.2019 and
 put up for approval of EB. l) The EB NFRA granted approval
 vta notes dated 25.09.2019 for Draft
 AQRR and approval of providing an
 opportunity to the Engagement W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 120 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Partner to appear in person before
 the Authority. m) Draft AQR Report (DAQRR) of
 NFRA dated 25.9.2019 sent to the
 Engagement Partner via email dated
 25.9.19. n) NFRA issued letter dated
 17.10.2019 to DHS seeking
 clarification regarding Audit
 documentation and IT ISSUEs. o) NFRA's letter dated 21.10.2019
 containing additional Questionnaire,
 sent via email on 21.10.2019 to CA
 Udayan Sen seeking replies to the
 same. p) On 23.10.2019 DHS requested for
 extension of time up to 4.11.2020 for
 submission of response of NFRA's
 Letter dated 21.10.2019. q) NFRA emailed on 24.10.2019
 granting extension of time up to
 4.11.2020 as requested by DHS. r) In person Presentation to NFRA
 was made by the Engagement Team
 members from DHS on 30.10.19. s) Written replies were furnished by
 the Engagement Partner vide letter
 dated 4.11.19 to NFRA's
 observations in the DAQRR. t) On 15.11.2019 DHS provided its
 Reply to NFRA letter dated
 17.10.2019 and 21.10.2019 w.r.t
 Audit Documentation/ IT issues and
 additional questionnaire. u) AQR Note was initiated by
 Secretary-NFRA on 11.12.2019 and
 put up for approval of EB. v) It was then approved by the EB
 for the issue vide note dated
 11.12.2019. w) AQR Report,
 approved by the EB, was issued by W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 121 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the Secretary NFRA on 12.12.2019. x) On 23.01.2020, NFRA issued a
 letter to DHS for scheduling a
 meeting on 27.01.2020 regarding the
 IT application used for maintaining
 Audit Files. y) Presentation was given by the
 DHS team on 28.01.2020 regarding
 the IT application used for
 maintaining Audit Files at NFRA
 office and email sent by DHS
 regarding points to be clarified by
 DHS on IT related issues. z) NFRA Team with IT consultants
 visited office of Deloitte Haskins &
 Sells LLP (Auditor) at Gurugram on
 29.01.2020 for further detailed
 understanding of their IT platform
 used for audit documentation. aa)Email of NFRA dated 07.02.2020
 was sent to CA Udayan Sen seeking
 reply to additional requirements/
 queries. The same were related to IT
 aspects of audit documentation. Reply was sought by 11.2.2020. bb )DHS emailed NFRA on
 10.02.2020 seeking time to reply
 NFRA's letter dated 7.2.2020 by
 21.2.2020. cc) Reply on the additional
 requirements from DHS received via
 letter dated 21.02.2020. dd)Draft Supplementary Audit
 Quality Review Report (DSAQRR)
 was issued to DHS on 01.05.2020. ee) On 23.05.2020, DHS requested
 NFRA to permit the filing of an
 interim reply to the DSAQRR by
 25th June, 2020 and a supplemental
 reply to the DSAQRR within a
 reasonably practicable time from the
 date the lockdown is lifted in W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 122 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Mumbai. ff) NFRA's letter dated 2.06.2020
 was issued to DHS for filing of Final
 Reply to Draft Supplementary Audit
 Quality Review Report (DSAQRR)
 by 25.06.2020. gg)On 23.06.2020, DHS requested
 NFRA to file comprehensive reply to
 DSAQRR by 25.07.2020. DHS also
 offered to alternatively, file their
 responses to the DSAQRR in a
 fragmented manner dealing with the
 issues covered therein in several
 parts and to file the first of such
 responses on 25th June, 2020 and the
 final one no later than 25th July,
 2020. hh)On 26.06.2020, Part Reply was
 furnished by DHS in respect of the
 DSAQRR. ii) NFRA emailed on
 27.06.2020 for granting extension of
 time upto 25.07.2020 to DHS for
 submission of consolidated response
 to the DSAQRR. jj) In respect of DSAQRR, Final
 Reply was furnished by DHS on
 25.07.2020. kk)On 01.09.2020, NFRA sent a
 letter to DHS for oral hearing on
 09.09.2020 regarding DSAQRR. ll.) On 03.09.2020, DHS sent a letter
 requesting for the date of hearing for
 any time after 2.10.2020. mm) On 05.10.2020, NFRA granted
 the request for extension of time. nn) On 28.10.2020 - Oral hearing
 was conducted on DSAQRR. oo )On 20.11.2020, DHS provided
 written clarifications after Oral
 hearing on DSAQRR. pp)On 07.12.2020, EB approved for
 issue of Supplementary AQRR W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 123 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 covering IT related control
 deficiencies in audit documentation
 by DHS and this was issued by the
 Secretary NFRA. 2 Who has As decided by the EB, the SCN
 conducted the followed the detailed AQR process
 investigation? as detailed above. The chronology
 is as follows: - After the issuing the AQRR, EB with
 the assistance of a team under a
 Chief General Manager, NFRA
 ("CGM"), who was not part of the
 AQR team, examined the
 observations in the AQRR and
 prepared draft SCN to the Audit
 Firm and Partners. The SCNs were
 approved for issue by the EB. a) On 02.01.2021, CGM initiated a
 note for EB's approval for issue of
 SCN to DHS. b) On 03.01.2021, EB approved to
 issue the SCN. c) On 06.01.2021, SCN issued to
 DHS. d) After that the DHS
 approached the court and matter is
 pending before the Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court. 3 Which The AQR of the ILPS groups was
 authority/official started suo-motu as decided by the
 has authorized EB. Later, a reference from the
 the initiation of central Government was also
 action? received by NFRA on the same
 matter. 4 Who had heard SCN was issued to DHS on
 and conducted 06.01.2021. After that the DHS
 the proceedings? approached the Court and matter is
 pending before the Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court. Hence, further proceedings are at
 hold. 2. WP(C) No. 1524 of2020 (Udayan Sen), W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 124 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 3. WP(C) No. 1522 of 2020 (Rukshad Daruvala), 4. WP(C) No. 1525 of 2020 (Shrenik Baid)

 SI No. Question Answer
 1 By whom AQR The AQR report was prepared by the
 was prepared Executive Body (EB) NFRA. A team
 of Staff in NFRA, consisting of the
 Secretary, one Executive Director,
 and three Chartered Accountants
 (Professionals) assisted EB in
 scrutiny of Audit file however EB
 examined all the relevant documents
 contained in the audit file and after
 consideration of all relevant legal
 conditions, prepared and signed the
 AQRR, which was finally, with the
 approval of EB, issued by Secretary
 NFRA. The chronology of preparing
 the AQRR is as follows: c) NFRA's letter dated 25.04.2019
 was sent to the Engagement Partner
 seeking a list of related parties and
 Audit/Non-Audit revenue in
 stipulated format on Affidavit. d) NFRA's letter dated 02.05.2019,
 containing a Questionnaire on
 matters observed in the Audit File,
 was sent via email on 02.05.2019 to
 the Engagement Partner seeking
 replies to the same. e) Reply of the Engagement Partner
 dated 08.05.2019 to NFRA letter
 dated 25.04.2019 was received on
 affidavit and also received via email
 from CA Shrenik Baid, Partner DHS. f) Reply by the Engagement Partner W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 125 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 to NFRA's Letter dated 02.05.2019
 received on 13.05.2019. g) NFRA issued a letter dated
 28.06.2019 to the Engagement
 Partner conveying its prima facie
 observations/comments/conclusions
 (PFC) on the various issues in the
 Questionnaire. Also, NFRA
 requested that the Engagement
 Partner, Sh. Udayan Sen, and the
 EQCR Partner, Sh. Rukshad
 Daruvala, or their respective
 authorised representative from the
 Engagement Team and the EQCR
 Team respectively, be present in
 person in the NFRA office to explain
 replies toPFC. h) Auditor requested NFRA through
 his letter dated 02.07.2019 to grant
 time till 30.07.2019 to provide
 comprehensive responses, after
 which to provide a date for an in- person meeting at which they may
 assist with any further clarifications
 if required. i) NFRA issued a letter dated
 05.07.2019 granting time up to
 5.8.2019 and the opportunity to
 explain the issues in person. j) Through letter dated 02.08.2019,
 Engagement Partner replied to
 NFRA's prima facie observations in
 its letter dated 28.06.2019. k) Draft AQRR Note was initiated by
 Secretary-NFRA on 25.09.2019 and
 put up for approval ofEB. 1) The EB NFRA granted approval
 via notes dated 25.09.2019 for Draft
 AQRR and approval of providing an
 opportunity to the Engagement
 Partner to appear in person before
 the Authority. m) Draft AQR Report (DAQRR) of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 126 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 NFRA dated 25.9.2019 sent to the
 Engagement Partner via email dated
 25.9.19. n) NFRA issued letter dated
 17.10.2019 to DHS seeking
 clarification regarding Audit
 documentation and IT issues. o) NFRA's letter dated 21.10.2019
 containing additional Questionnaire,
 was sent via email on 21.10.2019 to
 CA Udayan Sen seeking replies to
 the same. p) On 23.10.2019 DHS
 requested for extension of time up to
 4.11.2020 for submission of response
 of NFRA's Letter dated 21.10.2019. q) NFRA emailed on 24.10.2019
 granting extension of time up to
 4.11.2020 as requested by DHS. r) In person Presentation to NFRA
 was made by the Engagement Team
 members from DHS on 30.10.19. s) Written replies were furnished by
 the Engagement Partner vide letter
 dated 4.11.19 to NFRA's
 observations in the DAQRR. t) AQR Note was initiated by
 secretary-NFRA on 11.12.2019 and
 put up for approval of EB. u) It was then approved by the EB
 for the issue vide note dated
 11.12.2019. v) AQR Report, approved by the EB,
 was issued by the Secretary NFRA
 on 12.12.2019. 2. Who has As decided by the EB, the SCN
 conducted the followed the detailed AQR process
 investigation? as detailed above. The chronology is
 as follows: - After the issuing the
 AQRR, EB with the assistance of a
 team under a CGM, who was not
 part of the AQR team, examined the
 observations in the AQRR and
 prepared draft SCN to the Audit W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 127 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Firm and Partners. The SCNs were
 approved for issue by the EB. a) On 28-01-20, NFRA issued the
 Show cause Notice (SCN) to
 Rukshad Daruwala, wherein the last
 date for replying to the SCN was
 mentioned as 29-02-2020. b) On 07-02-20, a Writ Petition was
 filed by Rukshad Daruvala in Delhi
 High Court. c) On 14-02-20, a Letter was sent by
 R Daruvala informing NFRA that he
 will not be filing the reply to SCN,
 owing to the WP filed. d) On18-03-20, NFRA issued a letter
 to Rukshad Daruvala regarding filing
 of reply to SCN as there is no stay on
 NFRA proceeding by the Court. e) On 20-03-20, Reply from R
 Daruvala was received by NFRA that
 he shall not be filing a reply to the
 SCN due to the pendency of
 proceeding in Delhi High Court. f) On 29-04-20, NFRA sent a letter
 to R Daruvala, giving him time up to
 1Oth May 2020 to file the reply. g) On 13-05-20, NFRA wrote a letter
 to R Daruvala, granting him
 additional time upto 20-05-2020 and
 also offering an opportunity of
 personal hearing. h) On 17-05-20, R Daruvala
 requested NFRA that he will file
 interim reply by 10-06-20. i) On 18-05-20, NFRA rejected R
 Daruvala's request for extension of
 time as a considerable time had
 already passed and there was no stay
 granted by the Delhi High Court. j) On 21-05-20, Delhi High Court
 granted R Daruvala time upto 10-06- W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 128 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 20 to file reply to the SCN. k) On 27-05-20, NFRA sent a letter
 for rescheduling oral hearing on 11-
 06-20. 1) On 10-06-20, R Daruvala
 submitted Interim Reply to the SCN. m) On 11-06-20, Oral hearing was
 conducted before EB. n) On 13-06-20, R Daruvala
 provided his written submissions
 post oral hearing. o) On 20-07-20, R Daruvala
 submitted supplemental reply to the
 SCN. p) On 23-07-20, EB signed the order
 and approved for issue of same under
 the signature of Secretary NFRA. *Identical process for AQRR and
 Investigation (SCN) was followed
 for Shrenik Baid and Udayan Sen
 as well. 5. W.P.(C) 11737/2021- SRBC Vs. UNION OF INDIA & ANR , 6. W.P.(C) 11738/2021- Vinayak Pujare Vs. UNION OF INDIA &
 ANR . 7. W.P.(C) 11739/2021- Ravi Bansal Vs. UNION OF INDIA & ANR SI Question Answer
 NO. 1 By whom AQR The AQR report was prepared by the
 was protected Executive Body (EB) was prepared
 NFRA. A team of Staff in NFRA,
 consisting of the Secretary, one
 Executive Director, one CGM and
 three Chartered Accountants
 (Professionals) assisted EB in
 scrutiny of Audit file, however EB
 examined all the relevant documents
 contained in the audit file and after
 consideration of all relevant legal
 conditions, prepared and signed the
 AQRR, which was finally, with the
 approval of EB, issued by Secretary
 NFRA. The chronology of preparing
 the AQRR is as follows: d) On 14.06.2019, SRBC sent a letter
 to NFRA providing details sought by
 NFRA vide its email dated
 17.05.2019. e) On 03.07.2019, NFRA sent its pt
 Questionnaire to SRBC. f) On 17.07.2019, NFRA sent an
 email seeking Affidavit w.r.t the
 information received by NFRA
 on14.06.2019. g) On 19.07.2019, NFRA sent its 2nd
 Questionnaire to SRBC. h) On 22.07.2019, SRBC provided
 its response to NFRA's 1st
 Questionnaire. i) On 23.07.2019, SRBC submitted
 Affidavit dated 23.07.2019 in
 support of information sent on
 14.6.2019. j) On 29.07.2019, SRBC provided its
 response to NFRA's 2nd
 Questionnaire. k) On 09.08.2019, NFRA sent an
 email to SRBC, seeking audit file
 references and page numbers for
 hard files. l) On 19.09.2019, SRBC sent a letter,
 providing details as sought by NFRA
 in its email dated 09.08.2019
 alongwith SQC-1 Policy, 3 Limited
 Review Files. m) On 17.10.2019, NFRA sent a
 letter to SRBC for verifying dates of
 audit files and procedures pertaining
 to integrity of dating. n) On 23.12.2019, NFRA sent a
 letter seeking engagement letters for
 audit and non-audit services to ITNL
 for the FYs 2014-15 to 2018-19. o) On 10.01.2020, SRBC sent a letter
 providing the details sought by
 NFRA on 23.12.2019. p) On 22.01.2020, NFRA requested
 the Audit firm for submission of
 Memorandum, analysis,
 presentations, and other material
 incorporating the impact of transition
 from IGAAP to lnd AS. q) On 29.01.2020, SRBC submitted
 details as requested by NFRA on
 22.01.2020. r) On 24.03.2020, NFRA issued its
 Prima-Facie Conclusions (PFC) on
 AQR of Statutory audit of ITNL. s) On 17.04.2020, NFRA issued
 Supplementary PFC (SPFC) on
 Integrity of audit file and Audit
 Firm's IT Controls Review. t) On 03.07.2020, SRBC submitted
 its response to PFC and SPFC. u) On 28.12.2020, NFRA asked the
 Audit Firm for additional documents - copy of audit committee and Board
 Meeting minutes for appointment of
 SRBC & Co LLP for FY 2016-17,
 Audit Engagement Acceptance
 Letter 20 16-17, Minutes of Audit
 committee 29 May 2018, Underlying
 agreement 2012-13. v) On 02.01.2021, SRBC provided
 its response to information sought by
 NFRA on 28.12.2020 with five
 annexures. w) On 08.03.2021, NFRA issued the
 Draft Audit Quality Review Report
 (DAQRR). x) On 10.07.2021, Written replies
 were furnished by SRBC, w.r.t
 NFRA's observations in the DAQRR. y) On 08.09.2021, Engagement team
 members of SRBC made a
 presentation to NFRA. z) On 23.09.2021, the EB approved
 the issue of AQR. aa) On 23.09.2021, as authorised by
 EB, the Secretary NFRA issued
 AQR Report for ITNL's audit done
 by SRBC for the Financial Year
 2017-18. 2 Who had As decided by the EB, the SCN
 conducted the followed the detailed AQR process
 investigation? as detailed above: 3 Which The AQR of the ILFS group was
 authority/official started suo-motu as decided by the
 the initiation of EB. Later, a reference from the
 action? Central Government was also
 received by NFRA on the same
 matter. 4 Who had heard The oral hearing was before the EB (
 and conducted the Chairperson and Full-time
 the proceedings? Member). Orders are yet to be issued. 8. W.P.(C) 11987/2022 Jayesh Gandhi Vs. UNION OF INDIA &
 ANR W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 133 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 SI. Question Answer
 NO
 1 By whom AQR The AQR report was prepared by the
 was prepared Executive Body (EB) NFRA. A team
 of Staff in NFRA, consisting of the
 Secretary, one Executive Director,
 one CGM and four Chartered
 Accountants (Professionals) assisted
 EB in scrutiny of Audit file, however
 EB examined all the relevant
 documents contained in the audit file
 and after consideration of all relevant
 legal conditions, prepared and signed
 the AQRR, which was finally, with
 the approval of EB, issued by
 Secretary NFRA. The chronology of
 preparing the AQRR is as follows: was prepared
 2 Who has At the time of carrying out an Audit
 conducted the Quality Review (AQR) of the
 investigation? statutory audit of Dewan Housing
 Finance Corporation Limited
 (DHFL) for FY 2017-18 conducted
 by Chaturvedi & Shah LLP (C&S) ,
 a Mumbai based Audit Firm, the EB
 noticed that 33 Engagement Partners
 (EPs) or branch auditors had signed
 the "Independent Branch Auditors'
 Report" for nearly 250 branches,
 without a valid appointment. The
 Statutory Auditor of the Company
 viz. M/s Chaturvedi and Shah LLP W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 137 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 had referred to these so called
 Branch Audit reports in its
 Independent Audit report of DHFL. The EB examined the work of these
 33 EPs, including Snehal
 Muzoomdar, under section 132 ( 4)
 of the Companies Act, 2013 and
 observed non compliances in the
 acceptance of Audit engagement by
 the Branch Auditors and non- compliance of Standards on Auditing
 (SAs) in conducting the audit by
 them. Thereafter, the SCNs were
 approved for issue by the EB. a) On 10.08.2022, EB approved for
 initiation of action under Section 13 2 ( 4) of the Companies Act, 2013 . b) On 10.08.2022, as approved by
 the EB, the Secretary-NFRA sent
 letters and emails to Snehal
 Muzoomdar ,EP for submission of
 audit file. c) On 25.08.2022, EP submitted the
 audit file and EB examined the audit
 file. d) On 16.11.2022, EB approved for
 the issue of the SCN to CA Snehal
 Muzoomdar ,EP. e) On 21.11.2022, as approved by the
 EB, the secretary-NFRA issued the
 SCN. 3 Which The action against the EP was
 authority/official initiated suo-motu by the EB. has authorized a) On 21.11.2022, as approved by the
 the initiation of
 EB, the secretary-NFRA issued the
 action? SCN giving 30 days time for reply. b) On 19.12.2022, EP requested for
 extension of time for submitting
 reply to the SCN. c) On 26.12.2022, on behalf of EB,
 the Chairperson approved the
 extension of time. d) On 27.12.2022, email was sent to
 EP granting extension of time. e) On 18.01.2023, EP submitted his
 reply to the SCN dated 21.11.2022. f) On 10.02.2023, a letter was sent to
 EP conveying the date and time for
 oral hearing on 17.02.2023 but this
 date was rescheduled by EB for
 07.03.2023. g) On 06.03.2023, EP requested for
 reschedule of the oral hearing due to
 his mother's demise. h) The EB rescheduled the hearing
 on 27.03.2023. i) EB again, on EP's request,
 rescheduled the hearing on
 10.04.2023. j) On 10.04.2023, first oral hearing
 ofEP was held. k) On 14.04.2023, EP submitted
 additional written submissions
 subsequent to the 1st oral hearing. 1) On 19.05.2023, email was sent to
 EP for intimating his willingness to
 avail the additional oral hearing
 along with his legal counsel. m) On 23.05.2023, EP confirmed his
 willingness for additional hearing. n) The hearing was scheduled on
 02.06.2023. o) On 29.05.2023, EP requested for
 rescheduling of personal hearing due
 to his hearing in Supreme Court. p) On 31.05.2023, EB approved for
 rescheduling the personal hearing. q)
 On 06.06.2023, the oral hearing was
 adjourned after its commencement
 since the EP was not accompanied
 by a legal counsel. r) On 12.06.2023,
 personal hearing, before EB, was
 held along with his legal W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 139 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 representative. s) On 15.06.2023, EP submitted
 additional written submissions
 subsequent to the hearing. t) On 29.09.2023, EB signed the
 Order and authorised Secretary
 NFRA to issue the same. The
 Secretary NFRA issued the Order. 4 Who had heard The oral hearing was before the EB (
 and conducted the Chairperson and Two Full-time
 the proceedings? Members). 10. W.P. (C) No. 1650 of 2023 Natrajan Ram Krishna v/s UOI &
 NFRA

 SI. Question Answer
 NO
 1 By whom AQR The AQR report was prepared by the
 was prepared Executive Body was prepared (EB)
 NFRA. A team of Staff in NFRA,
 consisting of the Secretary, one
 Executive Director, one CGM and
 four Chartered Accountants
 (Professionals) assisted EB in
 scrutiny of Audit file, however EB
 examined all the relevant documents
 contained in the audit file and after
 consideration of all relevant legal
 conditions, prepared and signed the
 AQRR, which was finally, with the
 approval of EB, issued by Secretary
 NFRA. The chronology of preparing
 the AQRR is as follows: 11. W.P. (C) No. 10303 of2023- CA Vinay Aggarwal

 SI Question Reply
 NO. 1 By whom the No Audit Quality Review Report
 Audit Quality was prepared in this case. Review Report W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 145 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 was prepared? 2 Who had a) On 30.05.2022, NFRA received
 conducted the SEBI's letter dated 19.05.2022
 investigation? regarding report on examination/
 analysis of Annual Reports of
 Magnum Ventures Ltd (Magnum). b) On 02.06.2022, the Secretary
 NFRA submitted this matter to EB
 through Chairperson NFRA and on
 03.06.2022, EB initiated the
 examination in this case. For scrutiny
 of the documents, the EB was
 assisted by an Executive Director &
 his team. c) On 16.06.2022, the Executive
 Director submitted the file to EB
 through Chairperson with a proposal
 to call audit files and other records
 from the Auditor and Magnum for
 investigation u/s 132(4) of the
 Companies Act 2013 (Act). d) On 20.06.2022, EB through
 Chairperson approved the proposal
 and Auditor was advised to submit
 audit files within 30 days. e) On 14.07.2022 Auditor sought
 extension of time till 30.09.2022. f) On 26.07.2022, NFRA allowed
 extension of 15 days' time i.e., till
 05.08.2022. g) On 02.08.2022, Auditor sought
 extension of time till 31.10.2022. NFRA allowed extension of 15 days'
 time i.e., till 20.08.2022. h) On 19.08.2022, Auditor submitted
 audit files after 60 days. i) Thereafter, the EB, with the
 assistance of an Executive Director
 & his team examined the financial
 statements of Magnum ventures Ltd
 and audit files of M/s Aggarwal and
 Rampal for the relevant period. Based on such examination,
 sufficient cause existed to initiate
 action u/s 132( 4) of the Companies
 Act, 2013 against CA Vinay
 Aggarwal, engagement partner of
 M/s Aggarwal and Rampal. 3 Which a) The EB through the Chairperson,
 authority/official NFRA authorized initiation of action
 had authorized on 20.06.2022 (for calling audit files)
 the initiation of under section 132( 4) of the
 action? Companies Act the initiation of b) The Executive Body (Chairperson
 and two full time action? members)
 of NFRA authorised issue of two
 Show Cause Notices to CA Vinay
 Aggarwal on 15.06.2023 with the
 advice to submit reply within 30
 days' time. c) On 10.07.2023, Auditor sought
 extension of time till 05.08.2023 for
 submission of reply to SCN. NFRA
 allowed time till 25.07.2023. d) On 20.07.2023, Auditor sought
 extension of time till 05.08.2023 for
 submission of reply to SCN, which
 was allowed. e) On 05.08.2023, Auditor submitted
 reply to one SCN and sought 10
 days' time for submission of reply to
 second SCN. Reply to 2nd SCN has
 also been submitted by him. 4 Who had heard CA Vinay Aggarwal has submitted
 and conducted reply to one SCN and requested for
 the proceedings? Personal Hearing. Reply to second
 SCN has also been received. The
 Executive Body (EB) of NFRA will
 hear CA Vinay Aggarwal and
 advocate, if any, and conduct the
 proceedings. 12. W.P. (C) No. 2194 of2023: CA Adarsh Ranka
 Sr No Question Reply W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 147 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 1 By whom the No Audit Quality Review Report
 Audit Quality was prepared in this case. Review Report
 was prepared? 2 Who had a) A letter dated 11.05.2021 from
 conducted the SEBI was received by NFRA
 investigation? regarding the irregularities in the
 financial statements of Sobha
 Limited. b) On 31.05.2021, matter was
 submitted to the EB through
 Chairperson. c) On 04.06.2021, the Executive
 Body (EB), through chairperson,
 approved for calling of Audit File. In
 this case, the EB is assisted by an ED
 & him team. d) On 09.08.2021, Auditor was asked
 to submit the audit file. e) On 23.08.2021, Auditor sought 06
 weeks extension of time till
 05.10.2021. f) Extension as sought was granted
 by NFRA. g) On 04.10.2021, Auditor submitted
 audit files after 57 days of initial
 notice to submit the audit file
 (Whereas SAs mandates freezing of
 audit file within 60 days of signing
 of the audit report) h) On 10.02.2022, NFRA sought
 comments on the SEBI observations
 from the auditor and requested to
 submit the reply within 15 days. i) On 21.02.2022, Auditor sought
 extension for additional 01 month to
 submit his comments. j) Extension as sought was again
 granted by NFRA. k) On 24.03.2022, Auditor submitted
 his comments. I) Comments of the auditor was
 considered by the EB and on
 completion of the examination by the
 EB, there were reasons to believe
 that sufficient cause existed to
 initiate action u/s 132(4) of the
 Companies Act, 2013 against CA
 Adarsh Ranka, Engagement Partner
 (EP) of S. R. Batliboi & Associates
 LLP. 3 Which f) On 04.06.2021, the Executive
 authority/official Body (EB) NFRA, through its
 had authorized Chairperson, authorised calling audit
 the initiation of files and on 09.08.2021, under
 action? Section 132 of the Companies Act,
 20 13 read with NFRA Rules asked
 the auditor to submit the audit file. g) On 05.01.2023, EB (Chairperson
 and two full time members), after
 due application of mind, approved
 for issue of a Show Cause Notice
 (SCN) to CA Adarsh Ranka, asking
 him to submit reply to the SCN
 within 30 days' time and he was also
 offered to avail opportunity of
 personal hearing. h) On 07.02.2023, Auditor submitted
 reply to SCN i.e., after 33 days of
 issue of SCN. 4 Who had heard a) On 07.02.2023, CA Adarsh Ranka
 and conducted submitted reply to SCN and
 the proceedings? requested for Personal Hearing. b) NFRA considered his request for
 personal hearing and c) On 02.06.202, NFRA issued a
 communication to the auditor
 intimating the date of personal
 hearing scheduled to be held on
 26.06.2023. Initially 24 days' time
 was granted, in addition to the time
 granted to reply the SCN, to the
 auditor for preparation of personal
 hearing. d) On 12.06.2023, Auditor sought 3
 weeks extension from the date of this
 communication. e) On 22.06.2023, NFRA granted 18
 days extension rescheduling the
 hearing on 14.07.2023. So, total42
 days were granted to the auditor for
 the preparation of / Personal
 Hearing. f) On 14.07.2023, Personal Hearing
 was held before the EB. g) Final order is yet to be issued. AUDITING INDUSTRY : EXECUTIVE DELIBERATIONS 73. Before we proceed further to chronicle and record the erudite
 submissions which were addressed by learned senior counsels
 appearing for respective sides, it would be appropriate to briefly pause
 and take note of the salient and significant events which appear to have
 led to Section 132 of the Companies Act being introduced in the statute
 book. 74. As was noticed in the preceding parts of this decision, the
 provision itself came to be introduced in the Act by virtue of Act No. 18
 of 2013. The provision, however, came to be energized only on 01
 October 2018. The proposed structure of Section 132 also formed the
 subject matter of consideration of the Standing Committee on Finance
 and stands noted in its Thirty Seventh report. The subject of regulation
 of audit firms and networks also formed part of deliberations of prior
 Standing Committees and some of which have been noticed in the
 former parts of this judgment. While the imperative need to regulate
 auditing firms and to align auditing norms with global standards formed W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 150 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 subject matter of discussion of constituents of the Union Government at
 different points of time, concrete steps in that direction appear to have
 been prompted by the direction issued by the Supreme Court on 23
 February 2018 in S. Sukumar. 75. The direction which the Supreme Court framed on that occasion
 read thus:- 76. Pursuant to the aforesaid directive, a three-member expert
 committee came to be constituted. The remit of that committee can be
 gathered from the terms of reference which is extracted below:- 3. The Committee of Experts shall complete its work and
 submit its report within three months of its constitution. 4. This issues with the approval of Competent Authority. (G. Vaidheeswaran)
 Deputy Secretary to the Govt, of India" 87. Speaking on the subject of consistency between legislations, the
 report of the COE observed: - 88. The COE in unambiguous terms recommended that there was
 sufficient justification for strengthening the NFRA. This becomes
 apparent from a reading of the following passages of its report:- 89. The COE also appears to have deliberated upon the issue of a
 conflict of interest when viewed in light of non-audit services that may
 be undertaken by auditing firms. It proceeded to formulate the
 following recommendations in this respect:- Explanation: Entities in the network should include: 90. While speaking on the adequacy of the regulatory mechanism in
 respect of liability of auditors in audit firms, the COE observed:- 91. It is the aforesaid considerations which appear to have weighed
 upon Parliament while structuring Section 132 of the Companies Act
 and the Union Government proceeding to frame supportive rules to
 enable the NFRA to discharge its statutory obligations. Having set out
 the essential matrix of facts, the legislative history and the broad ranged
 debate and discussion which acted as the precursor to the insertion of
 Section 132 in the Companies as well as the relevant statutory
 provisions in the context of which the present challenge has come to be
 laid before us, the stage is thus set to commence consideration of the
 legal submissions which were addressed before us. THE VICARIOUS LIABILITY ARGUMENT 92. Appearing from the side of the writ petitioners, arguments were
 led by Mr. Kapil Sibal, Mr. Jayant Mehta and Mr. Girish Kathpalia,
 learned senior counsels. Assailing the action initiated by the NFRA and
 the validity of Section 132 of the Companies Act itself, it was firstly
 contended that the provision is liable to be invalidated since it amounts
 to the creation of a vicarious liability on audit firms as well and its
 constituent partners who may have in no manner been connected with
 the audit itself. The petitioners contended that Section 132 proceeds to
 impose a liability upon Limited Liability Partnerships 31 and which
 could themselves comprise of numerous partners and employees. 93. For instance, Mr. Sibal pointed out that DHS has approximately
 139 partners and more than 3,900 employees across India. According to
 learned senior counsels, holding a LLP liable for consequences flowing
 from Section 132 would have the effect of imposing a liability upon
 each partner of the firm irrespective of whether that partner was
 involved in the concerned audit or had performed an audit function.
 According to the petitioners, such partners would thus face liabilities
 even though they may have had no participative role in the alleged
 fraud, negligence or misconduct. It was thus argued that the affirmation
 of such a liability not only amounts to the placement of an unreasonable
 restriction on the fundamental right of the LLP and its partners to
 practice their profession and which stands guaranteed and protected
 under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution it would also amount to the
 imposition of a disproportionate penalty which would clearly be 31 LLPs W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 171 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 violative of Article 14. 94. It was argued that the principle of vicarious liability does not
 permit an act of fraud to be attributed to either the partner of a
 partnership firm or an LLP as the case may be, who are in no manner
 involved in or had participated in the fraud which is alleged. Reliance
 in this respect was also placed on Sections 27 , 28 and 30 of the Limited
 Liability Partnership Act, 2008 32 and which are extracted
 hereinbelow: - 28. Extent of liability of partner.--(1) A partner is not personally
 liable, directly or indirectly for an obligation referred to in sub-
 section (3) of Section 27 solely by reason of being a partner of the
 limited liability partnership. LLP Act W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 172 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 (2) The provisions of sub-section (3) of Section 27 and sub-section
 (1) of this section shall not affect the personal liability of a partner
 for his own wrongful act or omission, but a partner shall not be
 personally liable for the wrongful act or omission of any other
 partner of the limited liability partnership. xxxx xxxx xxxx 30. Unlimited liability in case of fraud.--(1) In the event of an act
 carried out by a limited liability partnership, or any of its partners,
 with intent to defraud creditors of the limited liability partnership or
 any other person, or for any fraudulent purpose, the liability of the
 limited liability partnership and partners who acted with intent to
 defraud creditors or for any fraudulent purpose shall be unlimited for
 all or any of the debts or other liabilities of the limited liability
 partnership: We dealt there with a statute which provided that no member of a
 Communist organization ordered by the Subversive Activities
 Control Board to register shall apply for or use a passport. We
 concluded that the statute would not permit a narrow reading of the
 sort we gave § 2385 in Scales. See 378 U.S., at 511, n. 9, 84 S.Ct.
 at 1666. The statute, as we read it, covered membership which was 33 1966 SCC OnLine US SC 66 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 175 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 not accompanied by a specific intent to further the unlawful aims of
 the organization, and we held it unconstitutional. 7. The oath and accompanying statutory gloss challenged here
 suffer from an identical constitutional infirmity. One who
 subscribes to this Arizona oath and who is, or thereafter becomes, a
 knowing member of an organization which has as 'one of its
 purposes' the violent overthrow of the government, is subject to
 immediate discharge and criminal penalties. Nothing in the oath,
 the statutory gloss, or the construction of the oath and statutes
 given by the Arizona Supreme Court, purports to exclude
 association by one who does not subscribe to the organization's
 unlawful ends. Here as in Baggett v. Bullitt, supra, the 'hazard of
 being prosecuted for knowing but guiltless behavior' (id., 377 U.S.
 at 373, 84 S.Ct. at 1323) is a reality. People often label as
 'communist' ideas which they oppose; and they often make up our
 juries. '(P)rosecutors too are human.' Cramp v. Board of Public
 Instruction, 368 U.S. 278, 287, 82 S.Ct. 275, 281, 7 L.Ed.2d 285.
 Would a teacher be safe and secure in going to a Pugwash
 Conference? [ The Pugwash Conferences, A Staff Analysis,
 Subcommittee to Investigate the Administration of the Internal
 Security Act, Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Committee Print,
 87th Cong., 1st Sess. (1961); Rabinowitch, Pugwash--History and
 Outlook, 13 Bull. Atomic Sci. 243 (1957); Topchiev, Comments on
 Pugwash: From the East, 14 Bull. Atomic Sci. 118 (1958);
 Thirring, Comments on Pugwash: From the West, id., at 121;
 Rabinowitch, The Stowe Conferences, 17 Bull. Atomic Sci. 382
 (1961); Statement of International Pugwash Continuing
 Committee: Pugwash XIII, Bull. Atomic Sci. 43--45 (December
 1964); Documents of Second Pugwash Conference of Nuclear
 Scientists (March 31--April 11, 1958).] Would it be legal to join a
 seminar group predominantly Communist and therefore subject to
 control by those who are said to believe in the overthrow of the
 Government by force and violence? Juries might convict though
 the teacher did not subscribe to the wrongful aims of the
 organization. And there is apparently no machinery provided for
 getting clearance in advance. [ Petitioner would, of course, have a
 hearing at a perjury trial, after the event. And one member of the
 Arizona Supreme Court felt that petitioner, having tenure, would be
 entitled to a hearing before she was discharged from her teaching
 position. See Elfbrandt v. Russell, 94 Ariz. 1, 17--18, 381 P.2d
 554, 565 (Bernstein, C.J., concurring). But even that is not
 authoritatively decided by the court; indeed, another opinion states
 this to be a minority view, 94 Ariz., at 18, 381 P.2d at 566 (separate
 opinion of Jennings, J.).] W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 176 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 8. Those who join an organization but do not share its unlawful
 purposes and who do not participate in its unlawful activities surely
 pose no threat, either as citizens or as public employees. Laws such
 as this which are not restricted in scope to those who join with the
 'specific intent' to further illegal action impose, in effect, a
 conclusive presumption that the member shares the unlawful aims
 of the organization. See Aptheker v. Secretary of State, supra, 378
 U.S. at 511, 84 S.Ct. at 1666. The unconstitutionality of this Act
 follows a fortiori from Speiser v. Randall, 357 U.S. 513, 78 S.Ct.
 1332, 2 L.Ed.2d 1460, where we held that a State may not even
 place on an applicant for a tax exemption the burden of proving
 that he has not engaged in criminal advocacy." 99. Mr. Sibal then referred to the judgment of our Supreme Court in Indra Das vs. State of Assam 34 which had cited the decision in
 Elfbrandt as well as certain other judgments of the US Supreme Court
 to hold that mere membership of an organization would not expose an
 individual to penal consequences. Our attention was specifically drawn
 to the following passages as appearing in Indra Das:- (emphasis supplied) 9. Elfbrandt case [16 L Ed 2d 321 : 384 US 11 (1965)] also relied
 on the US Supreme Court decisions in Aptheker v. Secy. of
 State [12 L Ed 2d 992 : 378 US 500 (1963)] , Baggett v. Bullitt [12
 L Ed 2d 377 : 377 US 360 (1963)] , Cramp v. Board of Public
 Instruction [7 L Ed 2d 285 : 368 US 278 (1961)]
 , Gibson v. Florida Investigation Committee [9 L Ed 2d 929 : 372
 US 539 (1962)] , etc. 10. In Noto v. United States [6 L Ed 2d 836 : 367 US 290 (1960)] ,
 US at pp. 297-98 Mr Harlan, J. of the US Supreme Court observed: 11. In Noto case [6 L Ed 2d 836: 367 US 290 (1960)] Mr Hugo
 Black, J. in a concurring judgment wrote: (L Ed p. 843)
 "In 1799, the English Parliament passed a law
 outlawing certain named societies on the ground that
 they were engaged in 'a traitorous conspiracy ... in
 conjunction with the persons from time to time
 exercising the powers of Government in France....'
 One of the many strong arguments made by those who
 opposed the enactment of this law was stated by a
 member of that body, Mr Tierney: includes reappointment. (2) No listed company or a company belonging to such class or
 classes of companies as may be prescribed, shall appoint or
 reappoint-- (a) an individual as auditor for more than one term of five
 consecutive years; and (b) an audit firm as auditor for more than two terms of five
 consecutive years: section (2). Explanation.--For the purposes of this Chapter, the word "firm"
 shall include a limited liability partnership incorporated under
 the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (6 of 2009).
 (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), in the
 case of a Government company or any other company owned or
 controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Central Government, or by
 any State Government or Governments, or partly by the Central
 Government and partly by one or more State Governments, the
 Comptroller and Auditor-General of India shall, in respect of a
 financial year, appoint an auditor duly qualified to be appointed as
 an auditor of companies under this Act, within a period of one
 hundred and eighty days from the commencement of the financial
 year, who shall hold office till the conclusion of the annual general
 meeting. (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the first
 auditor of a company, other than a Government company, shall be
 appointed by the Board of Directors within thirty days from the
 date of registration of the company and in the case of failure of the
 Board to appoint such auditor, it shall inform the members of the
 company, who shall within ninety days at an extraordinary general W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 181 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 meeting appoint such auditor and such auditor shall hold office till
 the conclusion of the first annual general meeting.
 (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub-
 section (5), in the case of a Government company or any other
 company owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Central
 Government, or by any State Government, or Governments, or
 partly by the Central Government and partly by one or more State
 Governments, the first auditor shall be appointed by the
 Comptroller and Auditor-General of India within sixty days from
 the date of registration of the company and in case the Comptroller
 and Auditor-General of India does not appoint such auditor within
 the said period, the Board of Directors of the company shall
 appoint such auditor within the next thirty days; and in the case of
 failure of the Board to appoint such auditor within the next thirty
 days, it shall inform the members of the company who shall
 appoint such auditor within the sixty days at an extraordinary
 general meeting, who shall hold office till the conclusion of the
 first annual general meeting. (8) Any casual vacancy in the office of an auditor shall-- (i) in the case of a company other than a company whose accounts
 are subject to audit by an auditor appointed by the Comptroller and
 Auditor-General of India, be filled by the Board of Directors within
 thirty days, but if such casual vacancy is as a result of the
 resignation of an auditor, such appointment shall also be approved
 by the company at a general meeting convened within three months
 of the recommendation of the Board and he shall hold the office till
 the conclusion of the next annual general meeting; (ii) in the case of a company whose accounts are subject to audit by
 an auditor appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of
 India, be filled by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
 within thirty days: 101. Mr. Hossain also took us through the various Accounting
 Standards35 in order to underscore his submission that a partner of an
 audit firm appointed in terms of Section 139, owes his engagement and
 involvement in the audit to the appointment of the firm itself. It was
 submitted that the SAs' require the appointed auditor to exercise,
 control and oversight in respect of the functions discharged by its
 individual partners in the course of an audit. 102. Mr. Hossain submitted that the auditor is required to exercise
 quality control during the entire audit process in order to ensure that its
 participating members discharge their functions and duties in
 accordance with the statutory obligations which apply. Learned counsel
 firstly referred us to SA 230 and which mandates the auditor to ensure
 that the audit exercise is conducted in accordance with the stipulations
 contained in SQC 1. Proceeding further, learned counsel placed for our
 consideration SA 220 and where the following provisions stand
 incorporated:- This SA is premised on the basis that the firm is subject to SQC 1.
 (Ref: Para.A1) 3. Within the context of the firm's system of quality control,
 engagement teams have a responsibility to implement quality
 control procedures that are applicable to the audit engagement and
 provide the firm with relevant information to enable the
 functioning of that part of the firm's system of quality control
 relating to independence. 4. Engagement teams are entitled to rely on the firm's system of
 quality control, unless information provided by the firm or other
 parties suggests otherwise. (Ref: Para. A2)

 xxxx xxxx xxxx

 Monitoring 23. An effective system of quality control includes a monitoring
 process designed to provide the firm with reasonable assurance that
 its policies and procedures relating to the system of quality control
 are relevant, adequate, and operating effectively. The engagement
 partner shall consider the results of the firm's monitoring process
 as evidenced in the latest information circulated by the firm and, if
 applicable, other network firms and whether deficiencies noted in
 that information may affect the audit engagement. (Ref: Para A32-
 A34)" 104. We also deem it apposite to extract the following additional
 Paragraphs from SQC 1:- 105. In view of the above, it was contended by Mr. Hossain that the
 work of a constituent of an auditing firm is inextricably linked with the
 policies laid in place by that firm pertaining to compliance with
 auditing standards and standards of quality control. On a compendious
 reading of the various SAs', Mr. Hossain submitted, it would be
 apparent that the discharge of functions by a member of an auditing
 firm is not liable to be viewed as distinct or removed from the
 engagement and appointment of the firm as an auditor itself. 106. Mr. Hossain then took us through the provisions contained in Section 147 of the Companies Act and which contemplates the
 imposition of punishment upon a firm as well as its member. The
 relevant parts of Section 147 are extracted hereinbelow:- five thousand rupees but which may extend to five lakh rupees
 236[or four times the remuneration of the auditor, whichever is
 less]: [Provided that in case of criminal liability of an audit firm, in
 respect of liability other than fine, the concerned partner or
 partners, who acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or, as the
 case may be, colluded in any fraud shall only be liable.]" 107. In view of the aforesaid, learned counsel submitted that it would
 be wholly incorrect for the petitioners to assert that the introduction of a
 provision pertaining to disciplinary proceedings against a firm would
 amount to the introduction of a liability which did not exist or could be
 described to be vicarious in character. 108. More importantly, according to Mr. Hossain, one must also bear
 in consideration the indisputable position of partnership firms not being
 liable to be viewed as separate juristic entities. Although this position is
 by now fairly well settled, in order to buttress his submissions, Mr.
 Hossain firstly relied upon the following passages as appearing in Commissioner of Income Tax vs. R.M. Chidambaram Pillai 36:- any change amongst them destroys the identity of the firm;
 what is called the property of the firm is their property,
 and what are called the debts and liabilities of the firm are
 their debts and their liabilities. In point of law, a partner
 may be the debtor or the creditor of his co-partners, but he
 cannot be either debtor or creditor of the firm of which he
 is himself a member, nor can he be employed by his firm,
 for a man cannot be his own employer." 16. The Indian law of partnership is substantially the same and the
 reference in counsel's submissions to the Scottish view of a firm
 being a legal entity is neither here nor there. Primarily our study
 must zero on the Indian Partnership Act and not borrow courage
 from foreign systems. In Bhagwanji Morarji Gokuldas [AIR 1948
 PC 100 : (1948) 18 Comp Cas 205, 209] the Privy Council ruled
 that the Indian Partnership Act went beyond the English
 Partnership Act, 1890, the law in India attributing personality to a
 partnership being more in accordance with the law of Scotland.
 Even so, Sir John Beaumont , in that case , pointed out that the
 Indian Act did not make a firm a corporate body. Moreover, we are
 not persuaded by that ruling of the Privy Council, particularly since
 a pronouncement of this Court in Dulichand [Dulichand
 Laksminarayan v. CIT , AIR 1956 SC 354 : 1956 SCR 154 : (1956)
 2 ITR 535] strikes a contrary note. We quote: The life of the Indian law of partnership depends on its own terms
 although habitually courts, as a hangover of the past, have been
 referring to the English law on the point. The matter is concluded
 by the further observations of this Court: In Narayanappa [Addanki Narayanappa v. Bhaskara Krishtappa ,
 AIR 1966 SC 1300, 1303 : (1966) 3 SCR 400] the view taken by
 this Court accords with the position above stated. 17. The necessary inference from the premise that a partnership is
 only a collective of separate persons and not a legal person in itself
 leads to the further conclusion that the salary stipulated to be paid
 to a partner from the firm is in reality a mode of division of the
 firm's profits, no person being his own servant in law since a
 contract of service postulates two different persons. 18. Counsel for the respondent cited the "Australian Income Tax
 Law and Practice by F.C. Bock and F.F. Mannix [ 1968 Edn, Vol.
 3, p. 3092] in Support of the proposition that a partner's salary is
 but a portion of the profits: 19. In an early Madras case CIT v. B.S. Mines [(1922) 1 ITC 176,
 177 (FB)(Mad)] the Madras High Court had held, with reference to
 the 1918 Income Tax Act : 20. Other cases from Other High Courts have been brought to our
 notice but strong reliance was placed on Ramniklal
 Kothari [CIT v. Ramniklal Kothari , (1969) 1 SCC 757 : (1969) 74 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 190 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 ITR 57] of this Court for reaching the conclusion that the business
 of a firm was business of the partners, that the profits of the firm
 were profits of the partners and that the expenditure incurred by
 partners in earning such share was admissible for deduction in
 arriving at the total income under Section 10(1) . 21. Contrary views are not wanting in some rulings, but a catalogue
 of cases on the other side may be productive of confusion and not
 resolution of conflict. We abstain from that enterprise and confine
 ourselves to the statement of the law that although, for purposes of
 the Income Tax Act , a firm has certain attributes simulative of
 personality, we have to take it that a partnership is not a person but
 a plurality of persons. 22. Coming to basics over again, this Court, in Karimtharuvi Tea
 Estates [Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. v. State of Kerala , 1963
 Supp 1 SCR 823 : (1963) 48 ITR 83 : AIR 1963 SC 760.] and
 in Anglo-American Direct Tea Trading Co. [Anglo American
 Direct Tea Trading Co Ltd. v. CAg IT, AIR 1968 SC 1213 : (1968)
 2 SCR 745 : (1968) 69 ITR 667, 671] has set out the nature of and
 manner of assessment of composite income tax derived by the sale
 of tea: In Tea Estates India [Tea Estates India (P) Ltd v. CIT , (1976) 4
 SCC 446: (1976) 103 ITR 785, 795] this Court summarised the
 scope and implications of Rule 24: We are fortified in the above conclusion by two decisions of this
 Court in the cases of Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. v. State of
 Kerala and Anglo-American Direct Tea Trading Co. Ltd.
 v. Commissioner of Agricultural Income Tax . In the case of
 Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. it was observed while dealing with
 the income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by
 the seller in the context of Rule 24: In the case of Anglo-American Direct Tea Trading Co. Ltd. the
 Constitution Bench of this Court held that income from the sale of
 tea grown and manufactured by the assessee is derived partly from
 business and partly from agriculture. This income has to be
 computed as if it were income from business under the Central
 Income Tax Act and the Rules made thereunder. Forty per cent of
 the income so computed is deemed to be income derived from
 business and assessable to non-agricultural income tax. The
 balance of 60 per cent of the income so computed is agricultural
 income within the meaning of the Central Income Tax Act . 23. It follows that by statutory dichotomy, 60% of the tea income is
 agricultural in character and central income tax cannot break into
 its inviolability. This conceded, the flexible arrangement among
 partners regarding distribution of this sum may take many forms
 but the essential agricultural character and consequential legislative
 immunity cannot be lost because of tags and labels: 24. With ideological clarity, this legal position has been set forth by
 a learned Author whom we refer to [ Law of Income Tax by AC
 Sampath Iyengar, 6th Edn, 1973, pp 1063-1064 (Vol II)] (by no
 means, rely on) compendious as his summary is: The contrary view favoured by Mathew Abraham proceeds on the
 reasoning: 25. We regard this conclusion as unsound, the source of the error
 being a failure to appreciate that the salary of a partner is but an
 alias for the return, by way of profits, for the human capital --
 sweat, skill and toil are, in our socialist republic, productive
 investment -- he has brought in for common benefit. The
 immediate reason for payment of salary was service contract but
 the causa causans in partnership." 109. The position in law so enunciated also finds resonance in Dulichand Laxminarayan vs. Commissioner of Income Tax 37 and
 where the Supreme Court had observed:- This section clearly requires the presence of three elements, namely
 (1) that there must be an agreement entered into by two or more
 persons; (2) that the agreement must be to share the profits of a
 business; and (3) that the business must be carried on by all or any
 of those persons acting for all. According to this definition
 "persons" who have entered into partnership with one another are
 collectively called a "firm" and the name under which their
 business is carried on is called the "firm name". The first question
 that arises is as to whether a firm as such can enter into an
 agreement with another firm or individual. The answer to the
 question would depend on whether a firm can be called a "person". 11. There is no definition of the word "person" in the Partnership
 Act . The General Clauses Act, 1897 , however, by Section 3(42) provides that "person shall include any company or association or
 body of individuals whether incorporated or not". The firm is not a
 company but is certainly an association or body of individuals. The
 argument is that applying that definition to the word "persons"
 occurring in Section 4 , one can at once say that an unincorporated
 association or body of persons, like a firm, can enter into a
 partnership just as by the application of that definition to Section 4 of the Indian Partnership Act a company can become a partner in a
 firm. The definitions given in Section 3 of the General Clauses Act,
 1897, however, apply when there is nothing repugnant in the
 subject or context. It is difficult to say that there is anything
 repugnant in the context of Section 4 itself which will exclude the
 application of that definition to the word "persons" occurring in Section 4 . Is there, however, anything repugnant in the subject of
 partnership law, which will exclude the application of that
 definition to Section 4 ? 12. As pointed out in Lindley on Partnership, 11th Edn, at p. 153,
 merchants and lawyers have different notions respecting the nature
 of a firm. Commercial men and accountants are apt to look upon a W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 195 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 firm in the light in which lawyers look upon a corporation i.e. as a
 body distinct from the members composing it. In other words
 merchants are used to regard a firm, for purposes of business, as
 having a separate and independent existence apart from its partners.
 In some systems of law this separate personality of a firm apart
 from its members has received full and formal recognition, as, for
 instance, in Scotland. That is, however, not the English Common
 Law conception of a firm. English lawyers do not recognize a firm
 as an entity distinct from the members composing it. Our
 partnership law is based on English law and we have also adopted
 the notions of English lawyers as regards a partnership firm. 13. Some of the mercantile usages relating to a firm have, however,
 found their way into the law of partnership. Thus in keeping
 accounts, merchants habitually show a firm as a debtor to each
 partner for what he brings into the common stock and each partner
 is shown as a debtor to the firm for all that he takes out of that
 stock. But under the English Common Law, a firm, not being a
 legal entity, could not sue or be sued in the firm name or sue or be
 sued by its own partner, for one cannot sue oneself. Later on this
 rigid law of procedure, however, gave way to considerations of
 commercial convenience and permitted a firm to sue or be sued in
 the firm name, as if it were a corporate body (see Code of Civil
 Procedure , Order 30 corresponding to rules of the English Supreme
 Court Order 48-A). The law of procedure has gone to the length of
 allowing a firm to sue or be sued by another firm having some
 common partners or even to sue or be sued by one or more of its
 own partners (see Order 30, Rule 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure ),
 as if the firm is an entity distinct from its partners. Again in taking
 partnership accounts and in administering partnership assets, the
 law has, to some extent, adopted the mercantile view and the
 liabilities of the firm are regarded as the liabilities of the partners
 only in case they cannot be met and discharged by the firm out of
 its assets. The creditors of the firm are, in the first place, paid out of
 the partnership assets and if there is any surplus then the share of
 each partner in such surplus is applied in payment of his separate
 debts, if any, or paid to him. Conversely, separate property of a
 partner is applied first in the payment of his separate debts and the
 surplus, if any is utilised in meeting the debts of the firm (see Section 49 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932). In the Indian
 Income Tax Act itself a firm is, by Section 3 , which is the charging
 section, made a unit of assessment. 14. It is clear from the foregoing discussion that the law, English as
 well as Indian, has, for some specific purposes, some of which are referred to above , relaxed its rigid notions and extended a limited
 personality to a firm. Nevertheless, the general concept of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 196 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 partnership, firmly established in both systems of law, still is that a
 firm is not an entity or "person" in law but is merely an association
 of individuals and a firm name is only a collective name of those
 individuals who constitute the firm. In other words, a firm name is
 merely an expression, only a compendious mode of designating the
 persons who have agreed to carry on business in partnership.
 According to the principles of English jurisprudence, which we
 have adopted, for the purposes of determining legal rights "there is
 no such thing as a firm known to the law" as was said by James
 L.J. in Ex parte Corbett, In re Shand [(1880) LR 14 Ch 122, 126] .
 In these circumstances to import the definition of the word
 "person" occurring in Section 3(42) of the General Clauses Act,
 1897 into Section 4 of the Indian Partnership Act will, according to
 lawyers, English or Indian, be totally repugnant to the subject of
 partnership law as they know and understand it to be. It is in this
 view of the matter that it has been consistently held in this country
 that a firm as such is not entitled to enter into partnership with
 another firm or individuals. It is not necessary to refer in detail to
 those decisions many of which will be found cited in Jabalpur Ice
 Manufacturing Association v. CIT, Madhya Pradesh [(1955) 27
 ITR 88] to which a reference has already been made. We need only
 refer to the case of Bhagwanji Morarji Goculdas v. Alembic
 Chemical Works Co. Ltd. [AIR 1948 PC 100] where it has been laid down by the Privy Council that Indian Law has not given legal
 personality to a firm apart from the partners. This view finds
 support from and is implicit in the observations made by this Court
 in the CIT v. A.V. Figgies & Co. [(1954) SCR 171 : 1953 ITR 405] 15. In Jai Dayal Madan Gopal [(1933) ITR 186] Sulaiman, C.J.
 followed the Calcutta decisions and was not prepared to dissent
 from the view that the word "person" in Section 239 of the Indian
 Contract Act, 1872 should not be interpreted so as to include a
 firm. The learned Chief Justice, however, expressed the view that it
 was difficult to say that there was anything in Section 239 itself
 which made the application to that section of the definition of
 "person" as given in General Clauses Act in any way repugnant.
 The learned Chief Justice, however, does not appear to have
 considered whether there was anything repugnant in the subject of
 partnership law, as it prevails in this country, which operates to
 exclude the application of that definition to the word "person"
 occurring in Section 239 of the Indian Contract Act. In our opinion,
 the word "persons" in Section 4 of the Indian Partnership Act,
 which has replaced Section 239 of the Indian Contract Act,
 contemplates only natural or artificial i.e. legal persons and for the
 reasons stated above, a firm is not a "person" and as such is not
 entitled to enter into a partnership with another firm or Hindu
 undivided family or individual. In this view of the matter there can W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 197 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 arise no question of registration of a partnership purporting to be
 one between three firms, a Hindu undivided family business and an
 individual as a firm under Section 26-A of the Act. 16. The learned Advocate for the appellant then urges that, at any
 rate, the partnership was not illegal, for there was no legal
 impediment in the way of all the members of all the three
 constituent firms and the karta of the Hindu undivided family and
 the individual entering into an agreement and that, therefore, a
 valid partnership was constituted by the deed of partnership under
 consideration. Assuming that this contention is possible in view of
 the language which has been used in this deed for describing the
 parties, the position of the appellant will not improve, for in order
 to be entitled to the benefit of registration under the Act, it will
 have to be shown that the shares of all individual partners are
 specified in the deed and that all the partners have personally
 signed the application for registration as required by Section 26-A of the Act read with Rule 2. The deed specifies that each of the five
 constituent parties is entitled to an equal i.e. 1/5 share but it does
 not specify the individual shares of each of the partners of each of
 the three smaller constituent firms. Further all the members of
 those three firms have not signed the application for registration
 personally. It is said that each of the three persons who executed
 the deed for the three smaller firms must be regarded as having the
 authority of their co-partners in their respective firms to sign the
 application for registration just as they had their authority to
 execute the deed itself for them. Even if they had such authority --
 as to which there is no evidence at all on the record -- the section
 and Rule 2 require that each partner (not being minors) must sign
 personally. That admittedly has not been done, and, therefore, the
 application was not in proper form. In our judgment the answer
 given by the High Court to the question is correct. This appeal
 must, therefore, be dismissed with costs." 110. Mr. Hossain also relied upon the provisions introduced by virtue
 of Sections 25 and 26 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 and in terms
 of which every partner is held liable jointly with all other partners as
 also severally for all acts of the firm and the firm in turn being held
 liable to the same extent as the partner. According to learned counsel,
 the aforenoted provisions in clear and unambiguous terms provide for
 the partner as well as the firm being equally liable for the wrongful acts W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 198 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 or omission of either. According to Mr. Hossain, any doubt that could
 have possibly been harboured stands laid to rest by Section 27(2) of the
 LLP Act and which expressly holds an LLP to be liable in respect of
 any wrongful act or omission of a partner. According to learned
 counsel, the phrase "liable to any person" as appearing in Section 27(2) would necessarily include the legal liability which comes to be incurred
 under the LLP Act towards investor shareholders and other stakeholders
 and thus the legal consequence of such liability being liable to be
 suffered. In view of the aforesaid, Mr. Hossain submitted that the
 argument of vicarious liability is clearly misconceived. 111. Having noticed the rival submissions which were addressed on
 this score, we firstly turn our gaze on the principal provisions which are
 contained in the Companies Act and deal with the appointment and
 engagement of an auditor. As is manifest from a reading of Section 139 of the Companies Act, every company is entitled to appoint either an
 individual or a firm as its auditor. By virtue of Section 141 of the said
 enactment, the statute proceeds to prescribe conditions in respect of
 eligibility and the qualifications which must be held by an auditor
 appointed by a company. In terms of Section 141(1), a person would be
 eligible to be appointed as an auditor of a company, if he be a CA. The
 Proviso to Section 141(1) proceeds further to hold that a firm whose
 majority of partners are also qualified for appointment, may be
 appointed as an auditor in its own name. Similar prescriptions appear in
 Section 141 (2) and which prescribes the condition subject to which an
 LLP may be appointed as an auditor. 112. Section 141 is extracted hereunder:- [(i) a person who, directly or indirectly, renders any service
 referred to in Section 144 to the company or its holding company
 or its subsidiary company. Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, the term "directly or
 indirectly" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation
 to Section 144.]
 (4) Where a person appointed as an auditor of a company incurs
 any of the disqualifications mentioned in sub-section (3) after his
 appointment, he shall vacate his office as such auditor and such
 vacation shall be deemed to be a casual vacancy in the office of the
 auditor." 113. It is thus evident that an individual, a partnership firm or an LLP
 can be appointed as an auditor of a company. The appointment,
 prescriptions and the nature of services which could be rendered by it
 are further prescribed and regulated by Section 144 of the Companies
 Act. The Explanation to Section 144 proceeds to explain and provide a
 definition to the expression "directly or indirectly" as appearing
 therein. Section 144 reads as follows:- 114. As is manifest from the Explanation appended to that provision,
 the statute makes appropriate provisions providing for both
 contingencies, namely, where the auditor be an individual or a firm. A
 firm when appointed as an auditor, cannot possibly be expected to act
 otherwise than through its members and partners. It is perhaps
 conscious of this facet concerning the engagement of a partnership firm
 or an LLP which guides the provisions made in Section 147(2). Sub-
 Section (2) firstly uses the word "auditor" and which must necessarily
 be conferred a compendious meaning bearing in mind the indisputable
 position of an auditor of a company being either an individual, a
 partnership firm or an LLP. The Proviso thereto proceeds further to W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 202 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 prescribe the punishments which could be imposed upon an auditor if it
 were found to have contravened the law or knowingly or wilfully to
 have acted with an intent to deceive the company or its shareholders.
 Similar provisions are thereafter engrafted in sub-section (5) and which
 in unambiguous terms stipulates that even in the case of an audit having
 been undertaken by an audit firm, if it is proved that its partner or
 partners had acted in a fraudulent manner, it would result in the
 imposition of a civil or criminal liability upon such partner or partners
 including the firm. The dual liability which would come to be attached
 is further amplified when sub-section (5) employs the phrase "and of
 the firm jointly and severally". Of equal significance is the Proviso to
 sub-section (5) and which declares that in case of criminal liability of
 an audit firm and which be one other than that of a monetary fine, it
 would be the concerned partner or partners who had acted in a
 fraudulent manner or abetted in the commission of that crime, who
 alone would be liable. 115. It is thus manifest that the Companies Act makes provisions in
 terms of which both the firm as well as its engagement partners are held
 liable and could face the spectre of incarceration as well as the
 imposition of monetary fines. Section 147 existed on the statute book
 even before the NFRA came to be operationalized. The validity of that
 provision is not questioned before us. The said provision gets attracted
 the moment the provisions of Sections 139 to 146 are found to have
 been contravened. It is thus evident that the Act does not make any
 distinction insofar as the issue of liability is concerned. A liability in
 terms of the Companies Act could accrue or come to be suffered by W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 203 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 both the firm as well as its partners. 116. It would thus be wholly incorrect to hold that Section 132 creates
 a liability which is foreign to or uncontemplated by the various other
 provisions forming part of that statute. The Companies Act clearly
 contemplates a firm suffering a liability as a consequence of the action
 of its Engagement Partners and constituents who may be involved in
 the conduct of the audit. Thus, both the audit firm as well as its
 individual partners would be exposed to a statutory liability if Sections
 139 to 146 were found to have been violated. 117. Therefore, and in our considered opinion the liability which is
 suffered by an audit firm by virtue of the actions of its partners engaged
 in an audit can neither be said to be abhorrent to the constitutional
 scheme or violative of Article 14. It would be wholly impermissible for
 an audit firm to disavow or seek to distance itself from the actions of its
 members. This we hold bearing in mind the indubitable fact that
 members come to be engaged in the conduct of the audit solely on
 account of the firm being appointed as an auditor of a company. The
 appointment of those members is not an independent engagement for it
 is the firm, be it a partnership or an LLP, which comes to be designated
 as the auditor. The individual members of those firms discharge
 functions and carry out duties in accordance with the directives issued
 by the audit firm. 118. This reasoning aligns closely with the principles of the organic
 theory which views the firm and its members as a single, inseparable
 unit for the purposes of legal and professional obligations. This
 indivisibility reflects the theory's premise that the firm and its members W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 204 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 are one and their roles are interdependent and unified. Thus, the
 appointment of the firm as an auditor naturally encompasses the actions
 of its members. The engagement of members in the conduct of an audit
 is not an independent or isolated act but is inherently derivative of the
 firm's appointment as the auditor. The firm acts as the central organ,
 and its members function as its limbs, carrying out its obligations and
 responsibilities. The firm's designation as the auditor inherently extends
 to its members, who act on its behalf. 119. Since the overarching liability and indivisible accountability
 vests upon the audit firm, the SAs' place it under an obligation to
 continually monitor, regulate and control the quality of the audit itself.
 It would therefore be wholly untenable in law to hold that the firm
 could shrug off the liability which would come to be attached
 consequent to the acts of omission or commission of its individual
 partners. 120. The fact that the audit firm is to act through its individual
 members becomes further evident from the following provisions which
 are made in the SAs:- 7. The firm's system of quality control should include policies and
 procedures addressing each of the following elements: Such policies and procedures should enable the firm to: 23. At least annually, the firm should obtain written confirmation
 of compliance with its policies and procedures on independence
 from all firm personnel required to be independent in terms of the
 requirements of the Code. xxxx xxxx xxxx 28. The firm should establish policies and procedures for the
 acceptance and continuance of client relationships and specific
 engagements, designed to provide it with reasonable assurance that
 it will undertake or continue relationships and engagements only
 where it: The firm should obtain such information as it considers necessary
 in the circumstances before accepting an engagement with a new
 client, when deciding whether to continue an existing engagement,
 and when considering acceptance of a new engagement with an
 existing client. Where issues have been identified, and the firm
 decides to accept or continue the client relationship or a specific
 engagement, it should document how the issues were resolved. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 Assignment of Engagement Teams W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 208 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 42. The firm should assign responsibility for each engagement to
 an engagement partner. The firm should establish policies and
 procedures requiring that: Such policies and procedures should: 102. Complaints and allegations (which do not include those that
 are clearly frivolous) may originate from within or outside the firm.
 They may be made by firm personnel, clients or other third parties.
 They may be received by engagement team members or other firm
 personnel. 103. As part of this process, the firm establishes clearly defined
 channels for firm personnel to raise any concerns in a manner that
 enables them to come forward without fear of reprisals. 104. The firm investigates such complaints and allegations in
 accordance with established policies and procedures. The
 investigation is supervised by a partner with sufficient and
 appropriate experience and authority within the firm but who is not
 otherwise involved in the engagement, and includes involving legal
 counsel as necessary. Small firms and sole practitioners may use
 the services of a suitably qualified external person or another firm
 to carry out the investigation. Complaints, allegations and the
 responses to them are documented. 105. Where the results of the investigations indicate deficiencies in
 the design or operation of the firm's quality control policies and
 procedures, or non-compliance with the firm's system of quality
 control by an individual or individuals, the firm takes appropriate
 action as discussed in paragraph 95. SA 200 - Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and
 the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Standards on
 Auditing
 13(d) Auditor - "Auditor" is used to refer to the person or persons
 conducting the audit, usually the engagement partner or other
 members of the engagement team, or, as applicable, the firm.
 Where an SA expressly intends that a requirement or responsibility
 be fulfilled by the engagement partner, the term "engagement
 partner" rather than "auditor" is used. "Engagement partner" and
 "firm" are to be read as referring to their public sector equivalents
 where relevant. SA 220 - Quality Control for an Audit of Financial Statements 2. Quality control systems, policies and procedures are the
 responsibility of the audit firm. Under SQC 1, the firm has an
 obligation to establish and maintain a system of quality control to
 provide it with reasonable assurance that: Differences of Opinion 22. If differences of opinion arise within the engagement team,
 with those consulted or, where applicable, between the engagement
 partner and the engagement quality control reviewer, the
 engagement team shall follow the firm's policies and procedures
 for dealing with and resolving differences of opinion.
 Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Audit
 Engagements (Ref: Para. 12)
 A8. SQC 1 requires the firm to obtain information considered
 necessary in the circumstances before accepting an engagement
 with a new client, when deciding whether to continue an existing
 engagement, and when considering acceptance of a new
 engagement with an existing client6. Information such as the
 following assists the engagement partner in determining whether
 the conclusions reached regarding the acceptance and continuance
 of client relationships and audit engagements are appropriate: section (1) shall be laid in draft before each House of Parliament,
 while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be
 comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and 38 LLP Act . if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session
 or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in
 disapproving the issue of the notification or both Houses agree in
 making any modification in the notification, the notification shall not
 be issued or, as the case may be, shall be issued only in such modified
 form as may be agreed upon by both the Houses. " 128. As is manifest from the above, the provisions contained in the LLP Act are ordained to be in addition to as opposed to being in
 derogation of the provisions contained in any other law for the time
 being in force. They are thus not intended to override or supersede the
 provisions of the Companies Act . Thus, both the provisions contained
 under the Companies Act as well as the LLP statute, would have to be
 harmoniously construed. 129. It is in the aforesaid backdrop that we then proceed to evaluate
 the submission which was addressed, bearing in mind the provisions
 contained in Section 27 . That provision stands engrafted in the statute
 in the following terms:- 130. As was noticed in the preceding parts of this decision, Section
 27(1) essentially adopts the well-known precept of ultra vires. It thus
 seeks to insulate the LLP from the acts of its partners if it were to be
 established that they had not been authorized to do a particular act by
 that entity. This is subject to the added qualification of the third party
 being cognizant of the partner of the LLP having been conferred no
 such authority or being aware of that partner not being associated with
 the LLP. 131. However, of significance is sub-section (2), when it provides that
 the LLP would be liable if its partner becomes liable to a person as a
 result of a wrongful act or omission in the course of the business of the
 LLP or with its authority. There could have been no starker
 acknowledgement of an LLP in law being liable for the acts of its
 partners or members. Section 27(2) thus stretches to an act of omission
 or commission of a member of the LLP acting within the scope of its
 authority and "in the course of the business" of the LLP. An audit
 conducted by a firm or a LLP would undoubtedly be "in the course of
 the business" of that entity. 132. We thus find ourselves unable to construe Section 132 of the
 Companies Act creating a vicarious liability which is otherwise not
 envisaged in cognate statutes and which are neither assailed nor W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 218 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 asserted to be invalid. This quite apart from the audit firm being
 enabled to act through its designated members, engagement partners to
 undertake the actual audit. We thus find ourselves unable to
 comprehend how that audit firm could disavow, disclaim or disown
 their acts. 133. In terms of Section 27(2) of the LLP Act, the statute postulates
 that an LLP would be liable to another person only if its partner be
 guilty of a wrongful act or omission committed on its part in the course
 of business. This provision thus is a reiteration of the LLP becoming
 liable for acts of its partners. Section 28 of the LLP Act proceeds
 further to then deal with contingencies where a partner may, if at all,
 become liable. It prescribes that a partner would, on a fundamental
 plane, not be viewed as being personally liable solely on account of
 being a partner of the LLP. Sub-section (2) of Section 28 , however,
 provides that Section 27(3) which broadly stipulates that the obligations
 arising out of contract or otherwise would be solely that of the LLP,
 would not apply where personal liability comes to be attached upon a
 partner by virtue of a wrongful act or omission. It proceeds further to
 significantly provide that a partner would in turn not become personally
 liable for the wrongful act or omission of any other partner of the LLP. Section 28(2) , however, would have to be construed, bearing in mind
 the admitted position of the audit firm itself having been appointed as
 the auditor of the corporate entity and the engagement and involvement
 of its partners and members being indelibly and inextricably connected
 with the discharge of that function. 134. While Section 28(2) insulates a partner from being held W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 219 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 personally liable for the wrongful act or omission of any other partner,
 the protection so accorded would clearly not apply in case the wrongful
 act or omission were viewed as being that of the audit firm itself. As
 was explained by us in the preceding paragraphs of this judgment, the
 issue of accrual of liability arises in the context of the engagement of a
 firm or an LLP as an auditor. Surely such an entity cannot discharge
 and perform its obligations concerned with audit unless it were acting
 through its members and partners. It is this ineffaceable connection
 which cannot possibly be erased or ignored while examining the
 challenge raised in the context of vicarious liability. 135. We also find ourselves unable to countenance the submission of
 persons disconnected with the actual audit coming to be impacted as a
 consequence of the audit firm suffering disciplinary action. This
 submission again firstly proceeds on the premise of a member having a
 standing distinct from that of the firm and which we have already
 negated in the preceding parts of this decision. Secondly, such a
 contingency is neither unknown nor unique. It cannot possibly be
 viewed as a fallout peculiar to Section 132 alone. A penal action against
 a corporate entity would invariably have a repercussion upon an
 individual in that firm's employment or engagement. 136. However, that disqualification or adverse consequence could
 occur even in a situation where a firm were to be debarred under any
 other law. Such a consequence could, for instance, occur if an entity
 were to be blacklisted. What thus must be borne in mind is that a person
 disconnected with the actual audit suffers the consequences of
 punishment imposed upon its employer only as long as the individual W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 220 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 remains associated with that entity and proposes to practise the
 profession under its aegis only. A punishment that may come to be
 imposed upon a firm by virtue of Section 132(4), therefore, cannot
 possibly be said to be violative of Article 19 of the Constitution. 137. We thus find no merit in the contention that Section 132 of the
 Companies Act is liable to be held as unconstitutional basis the audit
 firm or its individual partners and members becoming vicariously
 liable. In light of the above, the challenge to the constitutionality of
 Section 132 on the grounds of vicarious liability is without merit. The
 provision aligns with the fundamental principles of accountability and
 collective responsibility that governs the auditing profession. The
 firm's role as an auditor, coupled with its reliance on its partners and
 members to execute its obligations, makes it inevitable that liability
 whether arising from negligence, misconduct, or breach of statutory
 duties must extend to both the entity and the individuals involved. This
 structure not only ensures accountability but also upholds the integrity
 and trust essential to the auditing profession. 138. We also hold that Section 132 is neither an overreach nor can it
 be said to be arbitrary; it is a necessary mechanism to enforce
 professional accountability. The firm's designation as an auditor
 inherently includes the collective responsibilities of its members,
 making the imposition of a vicarious liability a logical and justified
 extension of its statutory obligations. Therefore, the contention that the
 provision is unconstitutional lacks merit and proceeds in ignorance of
 the operational and legal realities of an audit firm's engagement. 139. Since the full spectrum of auditing services would be carried out W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 221 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 under the aegis of a firm when it is engaged as an "auditor," it would be
 wholly untenable to abruptly sever the alignment between the firm and
 its members. The proposition to the contrary disregards the very
 essence of the firm's operational structure and undermines the objective
 sought to be achieved by Section 132. The essence of auditing lies in
 the collective responsibility of the firm and its members who work in
 unison to ensure compliance with accounting standards and deliver
 services of the highest professional integrity. Any attempt to isolate the
 liability of the firm from the actions of its members would result in a
 fragmentation of accountability, contrary to the statutory intent and
 purpose of ensuring public trust in financial reporting. 140. The liability in question pertains exclusively to the firm's
 adherence to accounting standards and its performance of auditing
 services, which are fundamental to maintaining the credibility and
 transparency of financial statements. These obligations are not abstract;
 they are explicitly tied to the professional judgment and diligence
 exercised by the firm's members in executing their duties. Thus, it
 cannot be construed that holding the firm and its members liable in this
 context would infringe upon their constitutional rights flowing Article 19. The assertion that such a liability violates the fundamental rights
 overlooks the reasonable restrictions imposed by statutory mandates
 designed to uphold public interest and ensure accountability in financial
 practices. 141. Moreover, statutory liability in this context is not an arbitrary
 imposition but a necessary mechanism to enforce adherence to
 regulatory standards and professional ethics. The NFRA, as the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 222 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 governing authority, has been established to regulate and ensure the
 accountability of auditors and auditing firms in order to safeguard
 public interest. The statutory framework does not infringe upon the
 right to practice a profession. It merely regulates the profession in a
 manner that ensures its integrity and aligns with larger public interest
 concerns. The argument that liability under the NFRA framework falls
 foul of Article 19 must, therefore, be unequivocally rejected. 142. By virtue of the firm being appointed as an auditor, the firm and
 its members willingly undertake responsibilities that come with a clear
 expectation of compliance with accounting standards and the assurance
 of professional diligence. The alignment between the firm and its
 members, particularly in the discharge of auditing services, is integral
 and inseparable. Liability arising from statutory breaches, including
 those regulated by the NFRA, is both reasonable and necessary to
 ensure the firm's adherence to professional obligations. 143. The argument of vicarious liability equally fails when tested on
 the anvil of the 2007 Misconduct Rules. As is manifest from a reading
 of Rule 8 if a complaint comes to be lodged before the Council against
 a firm, the statute envisages that firm being called upon to disclose the
 name or names of its "member/ members concerned" as well as for it
 being apprised of the particulars of the alleged acts of omission or
 commission. Rule 8 further prescribes that upon a requisite disclosure
 being made by the firm, it would be the member or members concerned
 who would become responsible for answering the complaint. Similarly,
 the Explanation to Rule 8 stipulates that a notice to the firm would be
 deemed to be a notice to all members who are partners or employees of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 223 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 that firm as on the date of registration of the complaint. 144. It is this statutory position which then stands mirrored in the
 Proviso to Rule 11 of the NFRA Rules and which reads as follows: [Provided that where the disposal does not take place within the said
 period, the Division shall record the reasons for not disposing off the
 show-cause notice within the said period, and the chairperson, may,
 after taking into account the reasons so recorded, extend the
 aforesaid period by such additional period not exceeding ninety days
 as he may consider necessary: clause (A) of clause (c) of sub-section (4) of Section 132 or
 for debarring the auditor from engaging as such under sub-
 clause (B) of clause (c) of sub-section (4) of Section 132 or
 both. (7) The order passed under sub-rule (6) shall not become effective W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 225 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 until thirty days have elapsed from the date of issue of the order
 unless the Division states otherwise in the order along with the
 reason for the same. (8) The order passed under sub-rule (6) shall be served on the
 auditor in the manner specified in sub-rule (3) and a copy of the
 same shall be sent-- (i) in all cases to (a) the Central Government; and (b) the
 Institute of Chartered Accountants of India; (ii) in the case of a company referred to in sub-section (5) of
 Section 139 to the Comptroller and Auditor General of
 India; (iii) in the case of a listed company to the Securities and
 Exchange Board of India; (iv) in the case of a bank or a
 non-banking finance company to the Reserve Bank of India; (iv) in the case of a bank or a non-banking finance company
 to the Reserve Bank of India; (v) in the case of an insurance company to the Insurance
 Regulatory and Development Authority of India; (vi) in case the auditor is resident outside India to concerned
 regulator of such country; and the same shall be published on the website of the
 Authority." 145. Rule 11 thus makes provisions identical to those contained in
 Rule 8 of the 2007 Misconduct Rules. A conjoint reading of the
 aforesaid statutory provisions leads us to the inevitable conclusion that
 it would be wholly incorrect to either assume or countenance the
 statutory scheme seeking to draw a distinction between the auditing
 firm and its constituent members. The members of the auditing firm act
 as its arms and sinews since an incorporated body can only act through
 its constituents and integral components. 146. As was noticed by us hereinabove, members or employees of an
 auditing firm do not come to be named or engaged in the work of audit
 in their individual capacity. Such a member becomes involved in the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 226 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 audit of a corporate entity by virtue of being an employee of the
 auditing firm and having been designated for the purposes of
 discharging the obligations of audit that are proposed to be undertaken
 by that firm. This position clearly emerges also from the various SAs'
 which were noticed hereinbefore. 147. We also find the submission resting on the view expressed by the
 US Supreme Court flowing from Elfbrandt to be wholly unmerited.
 While it is true that some of the observations rendered by the US
 Supreme Court found adoption and resonance in the decision of the
 Supreme Court in Arup Bhuyan vs. State of Assam and Anr. 39 and
 which was reiterated in Indra Das, we take note of the judgment
 rendered by three learned Judges of the Supreme Court in Arup
 Bhuyan vs. State of Assam and Anr. [Arup Bhuyan-2] 40 and where
 the Supreme Court ultimately came to hold that the decisions of the US
 Supreme Court would be inapplicable bearing in mind the principles
 enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution and the principle of
 reasonable restriction adopted by our Constitution as moderating that
 right. As is manifest from a reading of Para 8 of the report in Arup
 Bhuyan-2, the principal issue which had arisen for consideration was
 whether active membership is required to be proven over and above the
 membership of a banned organization. The second important question
 which stood posited in Arup Bhuyan-2 was with respect to the
 correctness of the view expressed in the earlier judgments of the
 Supreme Court and which had proceeded to interpret the ambit of Article 19 on the basis of the principles enunciated by the US Supreme 39 (2011) 3 SCC 377 40 (2023) 8 SCC 745 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 227 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Court. 148. In Arup Bhuyan-2, the Supreme Court noticed the distinction
 which is liable to be acknowledged to exist between Article 19 of our
 Constitution and the position which prevails in the US. Dealing with
 this aspect, it was pertinently observed as follows: - 149. This distinction stood further highlighted in paragraphs 118 to W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 228 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 120 as well as 125 of the aforenoted decision and which are extracted
 hereinbelow:- 119. The contradistinction between the rights created by the First
 Amendment of the American Constitution and Article 19 of the
 Indian Constitution is the power given to the State to make laws
 reasonably restricting such freedoms in India. Conversely, in the
 United States of America, restrictions have been imposed by the
 judiciary in instances, as relied upon in Arup Bhuyan [Arup
 Bhuyan v. State of Assam , (2011) 3 SCC 377 : (2011) 1 SCC (Cri)
 855] and Indra Das [Indra Das v. State of Assam, (2011) 3 SCC 380
 : (2011) 1 SCC (Cri) 1150] , however no such explicit power is
 available with the legislature. 120. This distinction has been enunciated by this Court as well.
 In Babulal Parate v. State of Maharashtra[Babulal Parate v. State
 of Maharashtra, 1961 SCC OnLine SC 48 : (1961) 3 SCR 423 : AIR
 1961 SC 884] , as submitted by the Union of India, a Constitution
 Bench of this Court (five-Judge Bench) while upholding the
 constitutional validity of Section 144CrPC has held that whatever
 may be the position in the United States, the anticipatory action
 under Section 144CrPC is permissible under clauses (2) and (3) of Article 19 , which allow the legislature to make laws placing
 reasonable restrictions on the rights conferred by these clauses of Article 19. Importantly, this Court further observed that there is
 nothing in the American Constitution corresponding to clauses (2) to
 (6) of Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. It was further observed
 that the framework of the Indian Constitution is different from the
 American Constitution. 125. In Shreya Singhal [Shreya Singhal v. Union of India , (2015) 5
 SCC 1 : (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 449] , this Court speaking through R.F.
 Nariman, J. highlighted on the differences between the US First
 Amendment and freedom of speech and expression under Article
 19(1)(a) read with Article 19(2) in the following words : (SCC pp.
 131-32, paras 15 & 17-18)
 "15. It is significant to notice first the differences between W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 229 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the US First Amendment and Article 19(1)(a) read with Article 19(2). The first important difference is the
 absoluteness of the US First Amendment--Congress shall
 make [Ed. : The words between two asterisks have been
 emphasised in original.] no law[Ed. : The words between
 two asterisks have been emphasised in original.] which
 abridges the freedom of speech. Second, whereas the US
 First Amendment speaks of freedom of speech and of the
 press, without any reference to "expression", Article
 19(1)(a) speaks of freedom of speech and expression
 without any reference to "the press". Third, under the US
 Constitution, speech may be abridged, whereas under our
 Constitution, reasonable restrictions may be imposed.
 Fourth, under our Constitution such restrictions have to be
 in the interest of eight designated subject-matters--that is,
 any law seeking to impose a restriction on the freedom of
 speech can only pass muster if it is proximately related to
 any of the eight subject-matters set out in Article 19(2). *** 17. So far as the second apparent difference is concerned,
 the American Supreme Court has included "expression" as
 part of freedom of speech and this Court has included "the
 press" as being covered under Article 19(1)(a) , so that, as a
 matter of judicial interpretation, both the US and India
 protect the freedom of speech and expression as well as
 press freedom. Insofar as abridgement and reasonable
 restrictions are concerned, both the US Supreme Court and
 this Court have held that a restriction in order to be
 reasonable must be narrowly tailored or narrowly
 interpreted so as to abridge or restrict only what is
 absolutely necessary. It is only when it comes to the eight
 subject-matters that there is a vast difference. In the US, if
 there is a compelling necessity to achieve an important
 governmental or societal goal, a law abridging freedom of
 speech may pass muster. But in India, such law cannot pass
 muster if it is in the interest of the general public. Such law
 has to be covered by one of the eight subject-matters set out
 under Article 19(2). If it does not, and is outside the pale of Article 19(2) , Indian courts will strike down such law. 18. ... American judgments have great persuasive value on
 the content of freedom of speech and expression and the
 tests laid down for its infringement. It is only when it comes
 to subserving the general public interest that there is a
 world of difference." (emphasis supplied) " SECTION 132 AND ITS RETROACTIVE OPERATION 153. Taking the discussion forward we propose to now evaluate the
 challenge raised by the writ petitioners on the ground of Section 132
 operating retrospectively and thus impacting valuable vested rights. The
 petitioners had urged that although sub-sections (2) and (4) of Section
 132 came to be enforced with effect from 24 October 2018 and the
 NFRA Rules on 13 November 2018, the NFRA seeks to apply those
 provisions retrospectively to audits concluded and completed prior to
 the dates aforenoted. The petitioners submitted that we must bear in
 mind the well settled precept that statutes ordinarily and as a general
 proposition are assumed to operate prospectively unless retrospectivity
 is expressly or impliedly provided for. It was their contention that the
 provisions as introduced by Section 132 not only ushers in a new
 procedure for purposes of trial of allegations of professional
 misconduct, it also creates new disabilities apart from imposing new
 obligations on transactions already accomplished. Viewed in that light
 it was their submission that the provision can only be applied W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 232 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 prospectively. 154. It was contended that prior to the introduction of Section 132
 there was no provision under the CA Act in terms of which an LLP or a
 firm could have been held guilty of acts of professional or other
 misconduct purportedly committed by any of its partners. Taking us
 through those provisions, the petitioners sought to highlight the fact
 that any action consequent to a determination of guilt connected to
 professional or other misconduct could have only exposed a partner to
 punishments under the CA Act . It is in the aforesaid backdrop that they
 contend that it was Section 132 which for the first time proceeded to
 create a liability and contemplates penal action against an LLP and a
 firm. It was submitted that the CA Act read alongside the Misconduct
 Rules, 2007 had never provisioned for the debarment of a firm. In view
 of the above, it was submitted that the provisions of Section 132 cannot
 be invoked in respect of audits that had been undertaken or completed
 prior to the dates from which the new regime came into force. 155. Learned senior counsels appearing for the writ petitioners then
 took us through some of the provisions made in the Companies Act including Section 139 and which according to them contemplates either
 an individual or a firm being appointed as an auditor. Insofar as an
 individual auditor is concerned, it was pointed out that the maximum
 monetary penalty prescribed for professional misconduct under the CA
 Act [prior to the amendments made therein in 2022] for Schedule I
 offences was stipulated to be INR 1 lakh while the penalties that could
 be imposed for Schedule II offences was INR 5 lakhs. It was submitted
 that Section 132(4)(c), however, now prescribes a penalty in the case of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 233 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 individuals to be not less than INR 1 lakh and which could extend to
 five times the fee received. Similarly, in the case of firms the monetary
 penalty is prescribed to be not less than INR 5 lakhs and which could
 extend to 10 times the fee received. These monetary penalties,
 according to the writ petitioners, are in stark contrast to what prevailed
 under the CA Act . They would thus contend that since the monetary
 penalties are far greater than those that were provided for under the CA
 Act , Section 132 cannot validly be enforced retrospectively. 156. The writ petitioners also questioned the stand taken by NFRA
 and which had alluded to the scheme underlying Section 132 as merely
 contemplating a change of forum and procedure. It was submitted that
 while the section undoubtedly introduces procedural changes, it also
 affects vested rights which had come to be perfected and this too would
 necessarily warrant the Court rendering a declaration that Section 132
 can only have prospective application. 157. Arguments were then addressed in great detail on behalf of the
 writ petitioners with learned senior counsels referring to the various
 procedural safeguards which formed part of the CA Act including
 provisions for leading of evidence, cross-examination of witnesses and
 all of which have been completely done away with and the NFRA
 being empowered by statute to adopt such summary procedure as it
 may deem fit. A retroactive application of Section 132 was also
 assailed on the basis of Article 20(1) of the Constitution. 158. The petitioners also questioned the correctness of the stand taken
 by NFRA and which had urged us to recognize the Proviso to Section
 132(4) as being the embodiment of a legislative intent of those W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 234 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 provisions applying even to past misdemeanors. It was submitted that
 the Proviso to Section 132(4) stands confined to the initiation or
 continuance of an investigation in the event NFRA were to take
 cognizance of the same. It was thus submitted that were NFRA not to
 initiate any investigation in relation to the audit of a company, the
 Council or any other authority enabled by the CA Act would continue
 to retain the right to initiate or continue an investigation. It was thus
 submitted that the word "continue" as appearing in the Proviso to
 Section 132(4) is to be read in that light and cannot possibly be
 construed as being indicative of an express or implied intent of the
 Legislature to confer retroactivity upon Section 132. 159. Reference was also made to the stand as taken by the NFRA in
 its affidavit filed in these proceedings and where it had sought to
 explain the ambit of the Proviso to Section 132(4) as being solely for
 the purposes of interdicting parallel investigations. This admission,
 according to the writ petitioners, supports their contention that the
 Section would not operate retrospectively. 160. For purposes of explaining the well settled precepts of
 substantive law operating prospectively unless a contrary intention is
 manifest or could be inferred from the language of the statute, the writ
 petitioners drew our attention to the following passages from the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Hukum Chand vs. Union of India
 and Ors. 42:- 11. In the case of ITO v. M.C. Ponnoose [(1969) 2 SCC 351 : (1970)
 1 SCR 678] this Court dealt with a notification, dated August 14,
 1963, which empowered the revenue officials, including the
 Tehsildar, to exercise the powers of a tax recovery officer under the Income Tax Act, 1961 in respect of arrears. The notification was
 given retrospective effect. Question which arose for determination
 was whether the State Government could invest the Tehsildar with
 such powers retrospectively. Answering this question in the
 negative, this Court observed: Reference was made in the above cited case to an earlier decision of
 this Court in B.S. Vadera, etc. v. Union of India [AIR 1969 SC 118 : 12. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the Explanation added to
 Rule 49 in the present case cannot be given retrospective operation." 161. The judgment of the Orissa High Court in Krushna Chandra vs.
 Commr. of Endowments and Ors. 43 was also cited in this respect and
 where the legal position was summarized in the following words: - 162. As was noticed hereinabove, the petitioners had laid great
 emphasis on the presumption of statutes having prospective application
 and the same being construed as intended to operate retrospectively
 only if the legislative body were to consciously couch that provision in
 a manner which could be countenanced as demonstrative of an express
 intent or intended implication. In order to buttress the aforesaid
 contention, the petitioners cited the decision of the Supreme Court in State of Punjab and Ors. vs. Bhajan Kaur and Ors. 44, relevant
 extracts whereof are reproduced hereinbelow: - Ltd. v. Padmavathy [1990 ACJ 751 (Ker)] . The Kerala High Court
 referred to a decision of this Court in M.K. Kunhimohammed v. P.A.
 Ahmedkutty [(1987) 4 SCC 284 : 1987 SCC (Cri) 703 : AIR 1987
 SC 2158] wherein the following observations were made : (SCC p.
 295, para 14)
 "14. ... Having regard to the inflationary pressures and the
 consequent loss of purchasing power of the rupee we feel
 that the amount of Rs 15,000 and the amount of Rs 7500 in
 the above provisions appear to have become unrealistic.
 We, therefore, suggest that the limits of compensation in
 respect of death and in respect of permanent disablement,
 payable in the event of there being no proof of fault, should
 be raised adequately to meet the current situation." 12. In Padmavathy [1990 ACJ 751 (Ker)] the Kerala High Court
 held : (ACJ p. 756, paras 11-12)
 "11. The said suggestion of the Supreme Court was given
 due respect by the law-making machinery when the Bill was
 finally introduced in Parliament. This fact can be discerned
 from the Statement of Objects and Reasons prefaced in the
 new Act. Therefore, in effect Parliament has only retained
 the same right which was conferred on the victims through
 Chapter VII-A of the repealed Act. The difference in the
 quantum of compensation is only intended to make the right
 realistic and on a par with the amount fixed earlier. Hence Section 6 of the General Clauses Act would not impede the
 enforcement of Section 140 of the new Act in relation to an
 accident which occurred prior to the coming into force of
 the new Act. 12. For yet another reason, we can support the said
 conclusion. Section 6 of the General Clauses Act permits
 switching over to the repealed Act only if a different
 intention does not appear in the new statute. Such a
 different intention can be discerned from the new Act. It is
 in Chapter X of the new Act that provisions regarding 'no
 fault liability' have been included. The Chapter starts with
 Section 140 and ends with Section 144. The last section
 reads as follows:'The provisions of this Chapter shall have
 effect notwithstanding anything contained in any other W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 239 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 provision of this Act or of any other law for the time being
 in force.' The different intention manifested in the new Act
 is that the provisions in Chapter X should get predominance
 over all other laws. The provisions contained in that Chapter
 must be given effect to notwithstanding any contrary
 provision in any other law including Section 6 of the
 General Clauses Act. All other provisions, therefore, must
 yield to the provisions contained in Chapter X of the new
 Act. This is the legislative intention manifested through
 Section 144 of the new Act." In the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court
 in Mosmi [1992 ACJ 192 (P&H)] , reliance has been placed upon the
 judgment of the Kerala High Court. With the greatest of respect to
 the learned Judges of the Kerala and Punjab and Haryana High
 Courts, we could not persuade ourselves to agree with the said view. 13. No reason has been assigned as to why the 1988 Act should be
 held to be retrospective in character. The rights and liabilities of the
 parties are determined when cause of action for filing the claim
 petition arises. As indicated hereinbefore, the liability under the Act
 is a statutory liability. The liability could, thus, be made
 retrospective only by reason of a statute or statutory rules. It was
 required to be so stated expressly by Parliament. Applying the
 principles of interpretation of statute, the 1988 Act cannot be given
 retrospective effect, more particularly, when it came into force on or
 about 1-7-1989. xxxx xxxx xxxx 16. It is now well-settled that a change in the substantive law, as
 opposed to adjective law, would not affect the pending litigation
 unless the legislature has enacted otherwise, either expressly or by
 necessary implication. 17. In Garikapati Veeraya v. N. Subbiah Choudhry [AIR 1957 SC
 540] the law is stated thus : (AIR p. 553, para 25)
 "25. ... The golden rule of construction is that, in the
 absence of anything in the enactment to show that it is to
 have retrospective operation, it cannot be so construed as to
 have the effect of altering the law applicable to a claim in
 litigation at the time when the Act was passed." 18. The question was considered by this Court in Gajraj
 Singh v. STAT [(1997) 1 SCC 650] and the law was stated in the
 following terms : (SCC pp. 664-66, paras 22-24) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 240 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 "22. Whenever an Act is repealed it must be considered,
 except as to transactions past and closed, as if it had never
 existed. The effect thereof is to obliterate the Act
 completely from the record of Parliament as if it had never
 been passed; it never existed except for the purpose of those
 actions which were commenced, prosecuted and concluded
 while it was an existing law. Legal fiction is one which is
 not an actual reality and which the law recognises and the
 court accepts as a reality. Therefore, in case of legal fiction
 the court believes something to exist which in reality does
 not exist. It is nothing but a presumption of the existence of
 the state of affairs which in actuality is non-existent. The
 effect of such a legal fiction is that a position which
 otherwise would not obtain is deemed to obtain under the
 circumstances. Therefore, when Section 217(1) of the Act
 repealed Act 4 of 1939 w.e.f. 1-7-1989, the law in Act 4 of
 1939 in effect came to be non-existent except as regards the
 transactions, past and closed or saved. 23. In Crawford's Interpretation of Law (1989) at p. 626, it
 is stated that: 24. When there is a repeal and simultaneous re-enactment, Section 6 of the GC Act would apply to such a case unless
 contrary intention can be gathered from the repealing Act. Section 6 would be applicable in such cases unless the new
 legislation manifests intention inconsistent with or contrary
 to the application of the section. Such incompatibility would
 have to be ascertained from all relevant provisions of the
 new Act. Therefore, when the repeal is followed by a fresh
 legislation on the same subject, the Court would
 undoubtedly have to look to the provisions of the new Act
 only for the purpose of determining whether the new Act
 indicates different intention. The object of repeal and re-
 enactment is to obliterate the repealed Act and to get rid of
 certain obsolete matters." 19. In Ramesh Singh v. Cinta Devi [(1996) 3 SCC 142 : 1996 SCC
 (Cri) 467] it has clearly been held that Section 217 of the 1988 Act
 does not expressly or by necessary implication make the relevant
 provision retrospective in operation. 20. In Zile Singh v. State of Haryana [(2004) 8 SCC 1] a three-Judge
 Bench of this Court stated the law thus : (SCC p. 10, para 17)
 "17. Maxwell states in his work on Interpretation of
 Statutes (12th Edn.) that the rule against retrospective
 operation is a presumption only, and as such it 'may be
 overcome, not only by express words in the Act but also by
 circumstances sufficiently strong to displace it' (p. 225). If
 the dominant intention of the legislature can be clearly and
 doubtlessly spelt out, the inhibition contained in the rule
 against perpetuity becomes of doubtful applicability as the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 242 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 'inhibition of the rule' is a matter of degree which would
 'vary secundum materiam' (p. 226). Sometimes, where the
 sense of the statute demands it or where there has been an
 obvious mistake in drafting, a court will be prepared to
 substitute another word or phrase for that which actually
 appears in the text of the Act (p. 231)." 21. In Lohia Machines Ltd. v. Union of India [(1985) 2 SCC 197 : 22. In Indian Metals and Ferro Alloys Ltd. v. State of Orissa [(1987)
 3 SCC 189] it was opined : (SCC p. 204, para 25)
 "25. ... we hold that the High Court was not right in
 observing that the orders under Section 22-B of the Act
 imposing restrictions on consumption of power could not
 legally and validly be passed by the Government 'with
 retrospective effect' in the middle of a water year. But the
 position regarding disallowance of clubbing stands on an
 entirely different footing. If a consumer had been allowed
 the benefit of clubbing previously, that benefit cannot be
 taken away with retrospective effect thereby saddling him
 with heavy financial burden in respect of the past period
 where he had drawn and consumed power on the faith of the
 orders extending to him the benefit of clubbing." 23. In Madishetti Bala Ramul v. Land Acquisition Officer [(2007) 9
 SCC 650 : (2007) 8 Scale 184] this Court observed : (SCC p. 656,
 para 19) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 243 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 "19. In Land Acquisition Officer-cum-DSWO v. B.V. Reddy
 and Sons [(2002) 3 SCC 463] this Court opined that Section
 25 being not a procedural provision will have no
 retrospective effect, holding : (SCC p. 471, para 6)
 '6. Coming to the second question, it is a well-settled
 principle of construction that a substantive provision
 cannot be retrospective in nature unless the provision
 itself indicates the same. The amended provision of Section 25 nowhere indicates that the same would
 have any retrospective effect. Consequently,
 therefore, it would apply to all acquisitions made
 subsequent to 24-9-1984, the date on which Act 68 of
 1984 came into force. The Land Acquisition
 (Amendment) Bill of 1982 was introduced in
 Parliament on 30-4-1982 and came into operation
 with effect from 24-9-1984.' " 163. Similar principles appear in Purbanchal Cables & Conductors
 (P) Ltd. v. Assam SEB 45, which was yet another decision cited on
 behalf of the writ petitioners and where the following pertinent
 observations appear:- 34. The general scope of the Act has been discussed above. The
 remedy sought to be applied by the Act is made clear in the
 Statement of Objects and Reasons, in which, it is stated that due to
 the delayed payments by buyers to the small-scale industries, their
 working capital was being affected, causing great harm to the small-
 scale industries in general. This Act was passed by Parliament to
 impose a heavy interest on the buyers who delayed the payments of
 the small-scale industries, in order to deter the buyers from delaying
 the payments after accepting the supplies made by the suppliers. 35. The policy statement of the Ministry of Micro, Small and
 Medium Enterprises dated 6-8-1991, reads: 36. Keeping in view the above object, the Act was enacted by
 Parliament. Before such enactment, it is required to examine rights
 of the supplier qua the buyer prior to the commencement of the Act.
 In case of delayed payment, the supplier, prior to the commencement
 of the Act, was required to file a suit for the payment of the principal
 amount, and could claim interest along with the principal amount.
 The supplier could avail of the same under Section 34 of the Code of
 Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as " CPC "), Section 61 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 and Section 3 of the Interest Act,
 1978. 37. In other words, the supplier whose payment was delayed by the
 buyer prior to the commencement of the Act, could file a suit for
 payment of the principal amount along with the interest. The
 supplier, thus, had the vested right to claim the principal amount
 along with interest thereon in case of a delay in payment by the
 buyer and it was the discretion of the court to award this interest. 38. The court has the discretion to award interest along with the
 principal amount and the same is clear from the use of the word
 "may" in all the three provisions cited above. Section 34 CPC is the
 main provision under which interest could be awarded by the court
 and Section 61 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 is an offshoot of Section 34 CPC. Section 3 of the Interest Act, 1978 also makes the Interest Act subject to the provision of Section 34 CPC. Hence, we
 can safely deduce that the interest awarded is a discretion exercised
 by the court, on the principal amount claimed, in case of a suit for
 recovery of payment by the supplier if such payment is delayed by
 the buyer. 39. With the commencement of the Act, a new vested right exists
 with the supplier, that being, if there is delay in payment after the
 acceptance of the goods by the buyer, the supplier can file a suit for
 claiming interest at a higher rate, as prescribed by the Act. This
 position has been approved by this Court in Modern
 Industries [(2010) 5 SCC 44 : (2010) 2 SCC (Civ) 280] . If a suit for
 interest simpliciter is maintainable as held by this Court in Modern
 Industries [(2010) 5 SCC 44 : (2010) 2 SCC (Civ) 280] , then a new
 liability qua the buyer is created with the commencement of the Act
 giving a vested right to the supplier in case of delayed payment. In
 other words, if there is a delayed payment by the buyer, then a right
 to claim a higher rate of interest as prescribed by the Act accrues to
 the supplier. 40. The phrase "vested right" has been defined by this Court in Bibi
 Sayeeda v. State of Bihar [(1996) 9 SCC 516] as: (SCC p. 527, para 17)
 "17. The word 'vested' is defined in Black's Law
 Dictionary (6th Edn.) at p. 1563 as: It is trite law that every statute is prospective unless it is
 expressly or by necessary implication made to have
 retrospective operation. 24. Right of appeal may be a substantive right but the
 procedure for filing the appeal including the period of
 limitation cannot be called a substantive right, and an
 aggrieved person cannot claim any vested right claiming
 that he should be governed by the old provision pertaining
 to period of limitation. Procedural law is retrospective
 meaning thereby that it will apply even to acts or
 transactions under the repealed Act." 43. In Shyam Sunder v. Ram Kumar [(2001) 8 SCC 24] , a
 Constitution Bench of this Court discussing the scope and ambit of a
 declaratory law has observed: (SCC p. 49, para 39)
 "39. Lastly, it was contended on behalf of the appellants
 that the amending Act whereby new Section 15 of the Act
 has been substituted is declaratory and, therefore, has
 retroactive operation. Ordinarily when an enactment
 declares the previous law, it requires to be given retroactive
 effect. The function of a declaratory statute is to supply an
 omission or to explain a previous statute and when such an
 Act is passed, it comes into effect when the previous
 enactment was passed. The legislative power to enact law
 includes the power to declare what was the previous law
 and when such a declaratory Act is passed, invariably it has
 been held to be retrospective. Mere absence of use of the
 word 'declaration' in an Act explaining what was the law
 before may not appear to be a declaratory Act but if the
 court finds an Act as declaratory or explanatory, it has to be
 construed as retrospective. Conversely where a statute uses
 the word 'declaratory', the words so used may not be
 sufficient to hold that the statute is a declaratory Act as
 words may be used in order to bring into effect new law." 44. In Katikara Chintamani Dora v. Guntreddi
 Annamanaidu [(1974) 1 SCC 567] this Court held: (SCC p. 582,
 para 50)
 "50. It is well settled that ordinarily, when the substantive
 law is altered during the pendency of an action, rights of the
 parties are decided according to law, as it existed when the
 action was begun unless the new statute shows a clear
 intention to vary such rights (Maxwell on Interpretation of
 Statutes, 12th Edn. 220). That is to say, 'in the absence of
 anything in the Act, to say that it is to have retrospective W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 248 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 operation, it cannot be so construed as to have the effect of
 altering the law applicable to a claim in litigation at the time
 when the Act is passed'." 45. In Govind Das v. ITO [(1976) 1 SCC 906 : 1976 SCC (Tax) 133]
 this Court speaking through P.N. Bhagwati, J. (as he then was) held: 46. In Jose Da Costa v. Bascora Sadasiva Sinai Narcornim [(1976)
 2 SCC 917] this Court held: (SCC p. 925, para 31)
 "31. Before ascertaining the effect of the enactments
 aforesaid passed by the Central Legislature on pending suits
 or appeals, it would be appropriate to bear in mind two
 well-established principles. The first is that '... while
 provisions of a statute dealing merely with matters of
 procedure may properly, unless that construction be
 textually inadmissible, have retrospective effect attributed
 to them, provisions which touch a right in existence at the
 passing of the statute are not to be applied retrospectively in
 the absence of express enactment or necessary intendment.' (See Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. CIT [(1926- 27) 54 IA 421] , IA p. 425.)
 The second is that a right of appeal being a substantive right
 the institution of a suit carries with it the implication that all
 successive appeals available under the law then in force
 would be preserved to the parties to the suit throughout the
 rest of the career of the suit. There are two exceptions to the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 249 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 application of this rule viz. (1) when by competent
 enactment such right of appeal is taken away expressly or
 impliedly with retrospective effect and (2) when the court to
 which appeal lay at the commencement of the suit stands
 abolished (see Garikapati Veeraya v. N. Subbiah
 Choudhry [AIR 1957 SC 540] and Colonial Sugar Refining
 Co. Ltd. v. Irving[1905 AC 369 : (1904-07) All ER Rep Ext
 1620 (PC)] )." 47. In K. Kapen Chako v. Provident Investment Co. (P) Ltd. [(1977)
 1 SCC 593] this Court discussing the dicta of the English courts on
 the aspect of retrospectivity observed: (SCC pp. 602-03, paras 37- 39)
 "37. A statute has to be looked into for the general scope
 and purview of the statute and at the remedy sought to be
 applied. In that connection the former state of the law is to
 be considered and also the legislative changes contemplated
 by the statute. Words not requiring retrospective operation
 so as to affect an existing statutory provision prejudicially
 ought not be so construed. It is a well-recognised rule that
 statute should be interpreted if possible so as to respect
 vested rights. Where the effect would be to alter a
 transaction already entered into, where it would be to make
 that valid which was previously invalid, to make an
 instrument which had no effect at all, and from which the
 party was at liberty to depart as long as he pleased, binding,
 the prima facie construction of the Act is that it is not to be
 retrospective. (See Gardner v. Lucas [(1878) 3 AC 582
 (HL)] .) 38. In Moon v. Durden [(1848) 2 Ex 22 : 154 ER 389] a
 question arose as to whether Section 18 of the Gaming Act,
 1845 which came into effect in August 1845 was
 retrospective so as to defeat an action which had been
 commenced in June 1845. The relevant section provided
 that no suit shall be brought or maintained for recovering
 any such sum of money alleged to have been won upon a
 wager. It was held that it was not retrospective. Parke, B.
 said: (ER p. 398)
 'It seems a strong thing to hold, that the legislature could
 have meant that a party, who, under a contract made prior to
 the Act, had as perfect a title to recover a sum of money, as
 he had to any of his personal property, should be totally
 deprived of it without compensation.' W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 250 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 39. Again in Smithies v. National Assn. of Operative
 Plasterers [(1909) 1 KB 310 : (1908-10) All ER Rep 455
 (CA)] Section 4 of the Trade Disputes Act, 1906 which
 enacted that an action for tort against a trade union shall not
 be entertained by any court was held not to prevent the
 courts from hearing and giving judgment in actions of that
 kind begun before the passing of the Act. It is a general rule
 that when the legislature alters the rights of parties by taking
 away or conferring any right of action, its enactments,
 unless in express terms they apply to pending actions, do
 not affect them. But there is an exception to this rule,
 namely, where enactments merely affect procedure and do
 not extend to rights of action. See Suche (Joseph) & Co.
 Ltd., In re [(1875) 1 Ch D 48] . If the legislature forms a
 new procedure alterations in the form of procedure are
 retrospective unless there is some good reason or other why
 they should not be. In other words, if a statute deals merely
 with the procedure in an action, and does not affect the
 rights of the parties it will be held to apply prima facie to all
 actions, pending as well as future." 48. In Dahiben v. Vasanji Kevalbhai [1995 Supp (2) SCC 295] this
 Court held: (SCC pp. 299-300, para 12)
 "12. As the amendment in question is not to a procedural
 law, it may be stated that the settled principle of
 interpretation, where substantive law is amended, is that the
 same does not operate retrospectively unless it is either
 expressly provided or the same follows by necessary
 implication. Lest it be thought that a vested right cannot be
 taken away at all by retrospective legislation, reference may
 be made to Rafiquennessa v. Lal Bahadur Chetri [AIR 1964
 SC 1511] where it was stated that even where vested rights
 are affected, legislature is competent to take away the same
 by means of retrospective legislation; and retrospectivity
 can be inferred even by necessary implication." 49. In Zile Singh v. State of Haryana [(2004) 8 SCC 1] this Court
 examined the various authorities on statutory interpretation and
 concluded: (SCC pp. 8-9, paras 13-14)
 "13. It is a cardinal principle of construction that every
 statute is prima facie prospective unless it is expressly or by
 necessary implication made to have a retrospective
 operation. But the rule in general is applicable where the
 object of the statute is to affect vested rights or to impose W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 251 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 new burdens or to impair existing obligations. Unless there
 are words in the statute sufficient to show the intention of
 the legislature to affect existing rights, it is deemed to be
 prospective only--'nova constitutio futuris formam
 imponere debet non praeteritis'--a new law ought to
 regulate what is to follow, not the past. (See Principles of
 Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, 9th Edn.,
 2004 at p. 438.) It is not necessary that an express provision
 be made to make a statute retrospective and the presumption
 against retrospectivity may be rebutted by necessary
 implication especially in a case where the new law is made
 to cure an acknowledged evil for the benefit of the
 community as a whole (ibid., p. 440). 14. The presumption against retrospective operation is not
 applicable to declaratory statutes.... In determining,
 therefore, the nature of the Act, regard must be had to the
 substance rather than to the form. If a new Act is 'to
 explain' an earlier Act, it would be without object unless
 construed retrospectively. An explanatory Act is generally
 passed to supply an obvious omission or to clear up doubts
 as to the meaning of the previous Act. It is well settled that
 if a statute is curative or merely declaratory of the previous
 law retrospective operation is generally intended.... An
 amending Act may be purely declaratory to clear a meaning
 of a provision of the principal Act which was already
 implicit. A clarificatory amendment of this nature will have
 retrospective effect (ibid., pp. 468-69)." 50. In State of Punjab v. Bhajan Kaur [(2008) 12 SCC 112 : (2009)
 1 SCC (Cri) 328] this Court held: (SCC p. 116, para 9)
 "9. A statute is presumed to be prospective unless held to be
 retrospective, either expressly or by necessary implication.
 A substantive law is presumed to be prospective. It is one of
 the facets of the rule of law." 51. There is no doubt about the fact that the Act is a substantive law
 as vested rights of entitlement to a higher rate of interest in case of
 delayed payment accrues in favour of the supplier and a
 corresponding liability is imposed on the buyer. This Court, time and
 again, has observed that any substantive law shall operate
 prospectively unless retrospective operation is clearly made out in
 the language of the statute. Only a procedural or declaratory law
 operates retrospectively as there is no vested right in procedure. 52. In the absence of any express legislative intendment of the
 retrospective application of the Act, and by virtue of the fact that the
 Act creates a new liability of a high rate of interest against the buyer,
 the Act cannot be construed to have retrospective effect. Since the
 Act envisages that the supplier has an accrued right to claim a higher
 rate of interest in terms of the Act, the same can only be said to
 accrue for sale agreements after the date of commencement of the
 Act i.e. 23-9-1992 and not any time prior." 164. It would, however, be relevant to note that Purbanchal Cables
 came to be subsequently overruled by the Supreme Court in Shanti
 Conductors (P) Ltd. vs. Assam SEB 46 as would be evident from a
 reading of paras 60, 61 and 62 of the report and which are extracted
 hereunder:- 61. We have noticed above that the incidence of applicability of the
 liability under the Act is supply of goodsor rendering of service. In
 event the supply of goods and rendering of services is subsequent to 46 (2019) 19 SCC 529 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 253 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the Act, can liability to pay interest on delayed payment be denied
 on the ground that agreement in pursuance of which supplies were
 made were entered prior to enforcement of the Act? Entering into an
 agreement being not expressly or impliedly referred to in the
 statutory scheme as an incident for fastening of the liability, making
 the date of agreement as date for imposition of liability does not
 conform to the statutory scheme. This can be illustrated by taking an
 example. There are two small scale industries which received orders
 for supply of materials. 'A' received such orders prior to the
 enforcement of the Act and 'B' received the order after the
 enforcement of the Act. Both supplied the goods subsequent to
 enforcement of the Act and became entitled to receive payment after
 the supply, on or before the day agreed upon between the supplier
 and buyer or before the appointed day. Payments were not made
 both to 'A' and 'B' as required by Section 3 . Can the buyer who has
 received supplies from supplier 'A' escape from his statutory
 liability to make payment of interest under Section 3 read with Section 4 ? The answer has to be No. Two suppliers who supply
 goods after the enforcement of the Act, become entitled to receive
 payment after the enforcement of the Act one supplier cannot be
 denied the benefit of the statutory protection on the pretext that the
 agreement in his case was entered prior to enforcement of the Act.
 When the date of agreement is not referred as material or incidence
 for fastening the liability, by no judicial interpretation the said date
 can be treated as a date for fastening of the liability. The 1993 Act
 being beneficial legislation enacted to protect small scale industries
 and statutorily ensure by mandatory provision for payment of
 interest on the outstanding money, accepting the interpretation as put
 by the learned counsel for the Board that the day of agreement has to
 be subsequent to the enforcement of the Act, the entire beneficial
 protection of the Act shall be defeated. The existence of statutory
 liability depends on the statutory factors as enumerated in Section 3 and Section 4 of the 1993 Act. Factor for liability to make payment
 under Section 3 being the supplier supplies any goods or renders
 services to the buyer, the liability of buyer cannot be denied on the
 ground that the agreement entered into between the parties for
 supply was prior to the 1993 Act. To hold that liability of buyer for
 payment shall arise only when agreement for supply was entered
 into subsequent to enforcement of the Act, it shall be adding words
 to Section 3 which is not permissible under the principles of
 statutory construction. 62. We, thus, are of the view that the judgments in Purbanchal
 Cables & Conductors [Purbanchal Cables & Conductors (P)
 Ltd. v. Assam SEB, (2012) 7 SCC 462 : ( 2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 245]
 , Assam Small Scale Industries [Assam Small Scale Industries W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 254 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Development Corpn. Ltd. v. J.D. Pharmaceuticals , ( 2005) 13 SCC
 19] and Shakti Tubes [Shakti Tubes Ltd. v. State of Bihar , (2009) 7
 SCC 673 : (2009) 3 SCC (Civ) 258] which held that the 1993 Act
 shall be applicable only when the agreement to sale/contract was
 entered into prior/subsequent to the enforcement of the Act, does not
 lay down the correct law. We accept the submission of the learned
 counsel for the appellants that even if agreement of sale is entered
 into prior to enforcement of the Act, liability to make payment under Section 3 and liability to make payment of interest under Section 4 shall arise if supplies are made subsequent to the enforcement of the
 Act." 165. Of equal significance are the following passages forming part of
 Shanti Conductors and where the aspect of retroactive application was
 explained in the following words:- when used with reference to an enactment may mean (i)
 affecting an existing contract; or (ii) reopening up of past,
 closed and completed transaction; or (iii) affecting accrued
 rights and remedies; or (iv) affecting procedure. Words and
 Phrases, Permanent Edn., Vol. 37-A, pp. 224-25, defines a
 "retrospective or retroactive law" as one which takes away
 or impairs vested or accrued rights acquired under existing
 laws. A retroactive law takes away or impairs vested rights
 acquired under existing laws, or creates a new obligation,
 imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability, in respect
 to transactions or considerations already past. 21. In Advanced Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar
 (3rd Edn., 2005) the expressions "retroactive" and
 "retrospective" have been defined as follows at p. 4124,
 Vol. 4: 66. Further in Jay Mahakali Rolling Mills v. Union of India [Jay
 Mahakali Rolling Mills v. Union of India, (2007) 12 SCC 198] ,
 explaining retroactive and retrospective the following has been laid
 down: (SCC p. 200, para 8)
 "8. "Retrospective" means looking backward,
 contemplating what is past, having reference to a statute or
 things existing before the statute in question. Retrospective
 law means a law which looks backward or contemplates the
 past; one, which is made to affect acts or facts occurring, or
 rights occurring, before it comes into force. Retroactive
 statute means a statute, which creates a new obligation on
 transactions or considerations or destroys or impairs vested
 rights." 67. Retroactivity in the context of the statute consists of application
 of new rule of law to an act or transaction which has been completed
 before the rule was promulgated. 68. In the present case, the liability of buyer to make payment and
 day from which payment and interest become payable under Sections 3 and 4 does not relate to any event which took place prior
 to the 1993 Act, it is not even necessary for us to say that the 1993
 Act is retroactive in operation. The 1993 Act is clearly prospective
 in operation and it is not necessary to term it as retroactive in
 operation. We, thus, do not subscribe to the opinion dated 31-8-2016
 [Shanti Conductors (P) Ltd. v. Assam SEB, (2016) 15 SCC 13] of
 one of the Hon'ble Judges holding that the 1993 Act is retroactive." 166. The judgment in Katta Sujatha Reddy and Anr. vs.
 Siddamsetty Infra Projects Private Limited and Ors.47 had dealt
 with the question of whether some of the amendments introduced in the Specific Relief Act, 1963 48, in 2018 could be said to have retrospective
 application. The Supreme Court in Katta Sujatha Reddy held that Section 10 of the SRA could not be viewed as being merely procedural
 since it also affected substantive principles underlying contracts in
 general. The issue was thus answered as under: - 52. This provision, which remained in the realm of the courts'
 discretion, was converted into a mandatory provision, prescribing a
 power the courts had to exercise when the ingredients were fulfilled.
 This was a significant step in the growth of commercial law as the
 sanctity of contracts was reinforced with parties having to comply
 with contracts and thereby reducing efficient breaches. 53. Under the pre-amended Specific Relief Act , one of the major
 considerations for grant of specific performance was the adequacy of
 damages under Section 14(1)(a) . However, this consideration has
 now been completely done away with, in order to provide better
 compensation to the aggrieved party in the form of specific
 performance. 54. Having come to the conclusion that the 2018 Amendment was
 not a mere procedural enactment, rather it had substantive principles
 built into its working, this Court cannot hold that such amendments
 would apply retrospectively. 55. In Shyam Sunder v. Ram Kumar [Shyam Sunder v. Ram Kumar,
 (2001) 8 SCC 24] , this Court held as under : (SCC pp. 42-43, para 28) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 258 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 "28. From the aforesaid decisions the legal position that
 emerges is that when a repeal of an enactment is followed
 by a fresh legislation, such legislation does not affect the
 substantive rights of the parties on the date of the suit or
 adjudication of the suit unless such a legislation is
 retrospective and a court of appeal cannot take into
 consideration a new law brought into existence after the
 judgment appealed from has been rendered because the
 rights of the parties in an appeal are determined under the
 law in force on the date of the suit. However, the position in
 law would be different in the matters which relate to
 procedural law but so far as substantive rights of parties are
 concerned, they remain unaffected by the amendment in the
 enactment. We are, therefore, of the view that where a
 repeal of provisions of an enactment is followed by fresh
 legislation by an amending Act, such legislation is
 prospective in operation and does not affect substantive or
 vested rights of the parties unless made retrospective either
 expressly or by necessary intendment. We are further of the
 view that there is a presumption against the retrospective
 operation of a statute and further a statute is not to be
 construed to have a greater retrospective operation than its
 language renders necessary, but an amending Act which
 affects the procedure is presumed to be retrospective, unless
 the amending Act provides otherwise. We have carefully
 looked into the new substituted Section 15 brought in the
 parent Act by the Amendment Act, 1995 but do not find it
 either expressly or by necessary implication retrospective in
 operation which may affect the rights of the parties on the
 date of adjudication of the suit and the same is required to
 be taken into consideration by the appellate court. In Shanti
 Devi v. Hukum Chand [Shanti Devi v. Hukum Chand,
 (1996) 5 SCC 768] this Court had occasion to interpret the
 substituted Section 15 with which we are concerned and
 held that on a plain reading of Section 15 , it is clear that it
 has been introduced prospectively and there is no question
 of such section affecting in any manner the judgment and
 decree passed in the suit for pre-emption affirmed by the
 High Court in the second appeal. We are respectfully in
 agreement with the view expressed in the said decision and
 hold that the substituted Section 15 in the absence of
 anything in it to show that it is retrospective, does not affect
 the right of the parties which accrued to them on the date of
 the suit or on the date of passing of the decree by the court
 of first instance. We are also of the view that the present
 appeals are unaffected by change in law insofar it related to W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 259 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 determination of the substantive rights of the parties and the
 same are required to be decided in the light of the law of
 pre-emption as it existed on the date of passing of the
 decree." 56. From the aforesaid decision in Shyam Sunder case [ Shyam
 Sunder v. Ram Kumar , (2001) 8 SCC 24] , it is clear that when a
 substantive law is brought about by amendment, there is no
 assumption that the same ought to be given retrospective effect.
 Rather, there is a requirement for the legislature to expressly clarify
 whether the aforesaid amendments ought to be retrospective or not. 57. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, it is clear that ordinarily,
 the effect of amendment by substitution would be that the earlier
 provisions would be repealed, and amended provisions would be
 enacted in place of the earlier provisions from the date of inception
 of that enactment. However, if the substituted provisions contain any
 substantive provisions which create new rights, obligations, or take
 away any vested rights, then such substitution cannot automatically
 be assumed to have come into force retrospectively. In such cases,
 the legislature has to expressly provide as to whether such
 substitution is to be construed retrospectively or not. 58. In the case at hand, the Amendment Act contemplates that the
 said substituted provisions would come into force on such date as
 the Central Government may appoint, by notification in the Official
 Gazette, or different dates may be appointed for different provisions
 of the Act. It may be noted that 1-10-2018 was the appointed date on
 which the amended provisions would come into effect. 59. In view of the above discussion, we do not have any hesitation in
 holding that the 2018 Amendment to the Specific Relief Act is
 prospective and cannot apply to those transactions that took place
 prior to its coming into force." 167. The petitioners while questioning the extent to which the
 Proviso to Section 132(4) could be stretched, also bid us to bear in
 consideration that a Proviso is in a sense an exception and cannot be
 interpreted so as to expand the meaning of the principal provision. This
 well settled legal proposition was lucidly explained by the Supreme W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 260 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Court in Ishverlal Thakorelal Almaula vs. Motibhai Nagjibhai 49 a
 decision cited on behalf of the petitioners in this respect and relevant
 passages whereof are extracted hereunder: - 168. The petitioners then drew our attention to the judgment in S.
 Sundaram Pillai vs. V.R. Pattabiramanb50 , and where the purpose of
 a proviso was explained more elaborately as would become apparent
 from a reading of the following passages: - 29. Odgers in Construction of Deeds and Statutes (5th Edn.) while
 referring to the scope of a proviso mentioned the following
 ingredients: p. 318. Though framed as a proviso, such a clause may
 exceptionally have the effect of a substantive enactment." 30. Sarathi in Interpretation of Statutes at pages 294-295 has
 collected the following principles in regard to a proviso: 31. In the case of Local Government Board v. South Stoneham
 Union [1909 AC 57 : 99 LT 896 (HL)] Lord Macnaghten made the
 following observation: 32. In Ishverlal Thakorelal Almaula v. Motibhai Nagjibhai [(1966) 1
 SCR 367 : AIR 1966 SC 459 : (1967) 1 SCJ 41] it was held that the
 main object of a proviso is merely to qualify the main enactment. In Madras and Southern Mahrata Railway Co. Ltd. v. Bezwada
 Municipality [AIR 1944 PC 71 : 71 IA 113 : 218 IC 333] Lord
 Macmillan observed thus: 33. The above case was approved by this Court in CIT v. Indo
 Mercantile Bank Ltd. [1959 Supp (2) SCR 256 : AIR 1959 SC 713]
 where Kapur, J. held that the proper function of a proviso was
 merely to qualify the generality of the main enactment by providing
 an exception and taking out, as it were, from the main enactment a
 portion which, but for the proviso, would fall within the main
 enactment. In Shah Bhojraj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning
 Factory v. Subbash Chandra Yograj Sinha [(1962) 2 SCR 159 : AIR
 1961 SC 1596 : (1962) 1 SCJ 377] Hidayatullah, J., as he then was,
 very aptly and succinctly indicated the parameters of a proviso thus: 34. In West Derby Union v. Metropolitan Life Assurance
 Society [1897 AC 647 : 66 LJ Ch 726 : 77 LT 284 (HL)] while
 guarding against the danger of interpretation of a proviso, Lord
 Watson observed thus: 35. A very apt description and extent of a proviso was given by Lord
 Oreburn in Rhondda Urban District Council v. Taff Vale Railway
 Co. [1909 AC 253 : 100 LT 713 (HL)] where it was pointed out that
 insertion of a proviso by the draftsman is not always strictly adhered
 to its legitimate use and at times a section worded as a proviso may
 wholly or partly be in substance a fresh enactment adding to and not
 merely excepting something out of or qualifying what goes before.
 To the same effect is a later decision of the same Court W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 264 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 in Jennings v. Kelly [1940 AC 206 : (1939) 4 All ER 464 : 162 LT 1
 (HL)] where it was observed thus: 36. While interpreting a proviso care must be taken that it is used to
 remove special cases from the general enactment and provide for
 them separately. 37. In short, generally speaking, a proviso is intended to limit the
 enacted provision so as to except something which would have
 otherwise been within it or in some measure to modify the enacting
 clause. Sometimes a proviso may be embedded in the main
 provision and becomes an integral part of it so as to amount to a
 substantive provision itself. 38. Apart from the authorities referred to above, this Court has in a
 long course of decisions explained and adumbrated the various
 shades, aspects and elements of a proviso. In State of
 Rajasthan v. Leela Jain [(1965) 1 SCR 276 : AIR 1965 SC 1296 : 39. In the case of STO, Circle-I, Jabalpur v. Hanuman
 Prasad [(1967) 1 SCR 831 : AIR 1967 SC 565 : (1967) 19 STC 87]
 Bhargava, J. observed thus: 40. In Commissioner of Commercial Taxes v. R.S. Jhaver [(1968) 1
 SCR 148 : AIR 1968 SC 59 : 20 STC 453] this Court made the
 following observations: 41. In Dwarka Prasad v. Dwarka Das Saraf [(1976) 1 SCC 128 : ***
 If the rule of construction is that prima facie a proviso
 should be limited in its operation to the subject-matter of
 the enacting clause, the stand we have taken is sound. To
 expand the enacting clause, inflated by the proviso, sins
 against the fundamental rule of construction that a proviso
 must be considered in relation to the principal matter to
 which it stands as a proviso. A proviso ordinarily is but a
 proviso, although the golden rule is to read the whole
 section, inclusive of the proviso, in such manner that they
 mutually throw light on each other and result in a
 harmonious construction." 42. In Hiralal Rattanlal v. State of U.P. [(1973) 1 SCC 216 : 1973
 SCC (Tax) 307] this Court made the following observations: [SCC
 para 22, p. 224: SCC (Tax) p. 315]
 "Ordinarily a proviso to a section is intended to take out a
 part of the main section for special treatment. It is not
 expected to enlarge the scope of the main section. But cases
 have arisen in which this Court has held that despite the fact
 that a provision is called proviso, it is really a separate
 provision and the so-called proviso has substantially altered
 the main section." 43. We need not multiply authorities after authorities on this point
 because the legal position seems to be clearly and manifestly well
 established. To sum up, a proviso may serve four different purposes: 169. It was then contended that even if a statute were construed to be
 procedural if its operation were to affect vested rights adversely, it
 would be liable to be held to have prospective application only. In
 support of the aforesaid proposition the petitioners cited the decision of
 the Supreme Court in Garikapati Veeraya vs. N. Subbaih Choudhry
 and Ors51 and where the legal position was summarized as follows:- 170. Further, reliance was also placed on the decision in Hitendra
 Vishnu Thakur and Ors. vs. State of Maharashtra 52, where while
 dealing with the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act,
 1987 , the Supreme Court had held:- 171. It was then lastly urged that a statute which imposes penal
 consequences cannot be recognized to have a retroactive application
 since conferment of such a construction would clearly violate Article
 20(1) of the Constitution. The petitioners sought to draw sustenance in
 this respect from the following paragraphs of the judgment in T. Barai
 vs. Henry Ah Hoe53 :- In State of Punjab v. Mohar Singh [AIR 1955 SC 84: (1955) 1 SCR
 893: 1955 SCJ 25 : 1955 Cri LJ 254] , this Court has elaborately
 dealt with the effect of repeal. In the case of a simple repeal, there is
 scarcely any room for expression of a contrary opinion. But when
 the repeal is followed by fresh legislation on the same subject, the
 court would undoubtedly have to look to the provisions of the new W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 270 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Act, but only for the purpose of determining whether they indicate a
 different intention. "The line of inquiry would be, not whether the
 new Act expressly keeps alive old rights and liabilities", in the
 words of Mukherjea, J., "but whether it manifests an intention to
 destroy them." The Court held that it cannot subscribe to the broad
 proposition that Section 6 of the General clauses Act is ruled out
 when there is repeal of an enactment followed by fresh legislation. Section 6 would be applicable in such cases also unless the new
 legislation manifests an intention incompatible with or contrary to
 the provisions of the section. Such incompatibility would have to be
 ascertained from a consideration of all the relevant provisions of the
 new Act and the mere absence of a saving clause is not by itself
 material. The Court therefore held that the provisions of Section 6 of
 the General clauses Act will apply to a case of repeal even if there is
 simultaneous enactment unless a contrary intention can be gathered
 from the new enactment. Of course, the consequences laid down in Section 6 of the General clauses Act will apply only when a statute
 or regulation having the force of a statute is actually repealed. It has
 no application when a statute which is of a temporary nature
 automatically expires by efflux of time. The principles laid down by the Court in Mohar Singh case [AIR 1955 SC 84: (1955) 1 SCR
 893: 1955 SCJ 25 : 1955 Cri LJ 254] , have consistently been
 followed in subsequent cases. The old doctrine of extinguishing or
 effacing the repealed law for all purposes and intents except for the
 acts past and closed has now given way to the principles enunciated
 by the Court in Mohar Singh case [AIR 1955 SC 84: (1955) 1 SCR
 893: 1955 SCJ 25 : 1955 Cri LJ 254] . xxxx xxxx xxxx 21. Lastly, the learned Judge refers to the new offences created by
 the Central Amendment Act, one of them being that under Section
 16(1)(b) of the Act with regard to manufacturing for sale, or storing,
 or selling, or distributing any adulterant which was not in the Act at
 any time before. Accordingly, he holds that it is not possible to give
 retrospective effect to the other parts of the Act and observes that it
 could never have been the intention of the legislature nor was it
 possible to give retrospective effect to the Act. According to him, Article 20(1) of the Constitution stands in the way of giving
 retrospective effect to Section 16(1)(b) of the Act and thus renders
 the act which was otherwise innocent at the time when it was done
 to be an offence by later enactment. We are not concerned with new
 offences created by the Central Amendment Act or with offences for
 which an enhanced punishment is provided for and therefore there is
 no question of Article 20(1) of the Constitution being attracted. We
 are here concerned with the same offence, namely, an offence W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 271 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 punishable under Section 16(1)(a) of the Act for which a reduced
 punishment is provided for. 22. It is only retroactive criminal legislation that is prohibited under Article 20(1). The prohibition contained in Article 20(1) is that no
 person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of a
 law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as an
 offence prohibits nor shall he be subjected to a penalty greater than
 that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the
 time of the commission of the offence. It is quite clear that insofar as
 the Central Amendment Act creates new offences or enhances
 punishment for a particular type of offence no person can be
 convicted by such ex post facto law nor can the enhanced
 punishment prescribed by the amendment be applicable. But insofar
 as the Central Amendment Act reduces the punishment for an
 offence punishable under Section 16(1)(a) of the Act, there is no
 reason why the accused should not have the benefit of such reduced
 punishment. The rule of beneficial construction requires that even ex
 post facto law of such a type should be applied to mitigate the rigour
 of the law. The principle is based both on sound reason and common
 sense. This finds support in the following passage from Craies on
 Statute Law, 7th Edn., at pp. 388-89: 23. To illustrate, if Parliament were to reenact Section 302 of the
 Penal Code, 1860 and provide that the punishment for an offence of
 murder shall be sentence for imprisonment for life instead of the
 present sentence of death or imprisonment for life, then it cannot be
 that the courts would still award a sentence of death even in pending
 cases. 24. In Rattan Lal v. State of Punjab [AIR 1965 SC 444: (1964) 7
 SCR 676: (1965) 1 SCJ 779: (1965) 1 Cri LJ 360] , the question that
 fell for consideration was whether an appellate court can extend the
 benefit of Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 which had come into
 force after the accused had been convicted of a criminal offence. The
 Court by majority of 2: 1 answered the question in the affirmative.
 Subba Rao, J. who delivered a majority opinion, concluded that in
 considering the question, the rule of beneficial construction required
 that even ex post facto law of the type involved in that case should
 be applied to reduce the punishment. 25. It is settled both on authority and principle that when a later
 statute again describes an offence created by an earlier statute and
 imposes a different punishment, or varies the procedure, the earlier
 statute is repealed by implication. In Michell v. Brown [(1958) 120
 ER 909, 912: 32 LTOS 146 : 7 WR 80] Lord Campbell put the
 matter thus: The rule is however subject to the limitation contained in Article
 20(1) against ex post facto law providing for a greater punishment
 and has also no application where the offence described in the later
 Act is not the same as in the earlier Act i.e. when the essential
 ingredients of the two offences are different. 26. In the premises, the Central Amendment Act having dealt with
 the same offence as the one punishable under Section 16(1)(a) and
 provided for a reduced punishment, the accused must have the
 benefit of the reduced punishment. We wish to make it clear that
 anything that we have said shall not be construed as giving to the
 Central Amendment Act a retrospective operation insofar as it
 creates new offences or provides for an enhanced punishment." 172. In support of the aforesaid proposition, the petitioner also
 additionally drew our attention to the following paragraphs forming
 part of the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Balu Shankar Patil
 vs. State of Maharashtra 54:- 11. In State Bank's Staff Union v. Union of India , (2005) 7 SCC 584,
 Their Lordships observed as follows in paragraph 19. [2007] (5) Mh. LJ 675 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 274 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 "19. Every sovereign legislature possesses the right to make
 retrospective legislation. The power to make laws includes
 the power to give it retrospective effect. Craies on Statute
 Law (7th Edn.) at p. 387 defines retrospective statutes in the
 following words: 12. Their Lordships observed that every sovereign legislature
 possesses the right to make retrospective legislation and then
 considered what the "retrospective" means. Their Lordships
 observed as follows in paragraph 20 as follows: when used with reference to an enactment may mean (i)
 affecting an existing contract; or (ii) reopening up of past,
 closed and completed transaction; or (iii) affecting accrued
 rights and remedies; or (iv) affecting procedure. Words and
 Phrases, Permanent Edn., Vol. 37-A, pp. 224-25, defines a
 "retrospective or retroactive law" as one which takes away
 or impairs vested or accrued rights acquired under existing
 laws. A retroactive law takes away or impairs vested rights
 acquired under existing laws, or creates a new obligation,
 imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability, in respect
 to transactions or considerations already past." 13. Their Lordships further observed in paragraph 21 as follows: 14. In T. Barai v. Henry Ah Hoe , (1983) 1 SCC 177 : AIR 1983 SC
 150, the Supreme Court observed as follows in paragraph 22: 15. In view of this authority, it becomes clear that the act, which was
 not prohibited or not offence at the time of commission would not be
 made an offence by some legislation with retrospective effect and
 nor a penalty greater than which might have been inflicted under the
 law in force could be made applicable to the act committed at a
 particular time by making a law later on with retrospective effect.
 Therefore, the retrospective or retroactive law, which takes away or
 impairs vested or accrued rights under the existing law or which
 creates a new obligation or imposes a new duty or attaches a new
 disability or which makes an act, which was not an offence before
 the act, an offence under the Act, or which provides a punishment
 higher than that obtaining at the time of commission of the offence,
 is prohibited under Article 20(1) of the Constitution. However, if the
 law mollifies the rigour of the criminal law and thereby give certain
 benefits to the accused, that law is not prohibited under Article 20(1) of the Constitution of India." 173. While various other decisions were also cited in this respect and
 which have essentially reiterated the legal position as enunciated in the
 judgments aforenoted, we for the sake of completeness also deem it
 apposite to reproduce the following paragraphs which appear in the
 decision of the Supreme Court in Virtual Soft Systems Ltd. vs. W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 276 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Commissioner of Income Tax 55:- Ltd. [(1995) 4 SCC 485 : (1995) 215 ITR 165] The
 Allahabad High Court has also taken the same view in Zam W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 278 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Zam Tanners [(2005) 279 ITR 197 (All)] . Notes on Clauses
 on the amendment introduced by the Finance Act, 2002 makes specific mention inter alia of the amendment to be
 effective from 1-4-2003 of which the Bombay High Court
 has failed to take notice in its judgment
 in CIT v. Chemiequip Ltd. [(2004) 265 ITR 265 (Bom)]" 174. Mr. Hossain, learned counsel appearing for the respondents,
 however, questioned the soundness of the arguments on retrospectivity
 and addressed the following submissions. Learned counsel firstly
 reminded us of the debate and deliberations which had ensued both at
 the level of the executive arm of the Union as well as the legislative
 bodies and all of which had found an imperative necessity to revamp
 the regulatory regime with respect to auditing firms. According to Mr.
 Hossain, since a peer review was found to be clearly flawed and
 unresponsive, Parliament had deliberately intervened by introducing
 Section 132 in the statute book so as to remedy the mischief of errant
 companies and auditing firms having failed to adequately regulate their
 activities. 175. According to Mr. Hossain, no CA or auditing firm can claim to
 have a vested right to commit professional or other misconduct and not
 be tried. It was pointed out that misconduct already stood defined in
 the CA Act and made such conduct unlawful right from the time of the
 commencement of that statute in 1949. It was thus submitted that since
 professional or other misconduct was always triable under the CA Act ,
 the petitioners are clearly incorrect when they argue that a vested right
 had been taken away by Section 132(4) of the Act. 176. Mr. Hossain laid great emphasis on the fact that Section 132(4)
 does not create a new category of misconduct since it merely W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 279 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 incorporates the definition of professional or other misconduct as
 appearing in Section 22 of the CA Act. It was thus submitted that a
 misdemeanor which would fall within the meaning of professional or
 other misconduct had remained unaltered with Section 132(4) merely
 providing that the expression "professional or other misconduct" would
 have the same meaning as assigned to that phrase by the CA Act . 177. It was further submitted that the obligation to comply with SAs
 too was one which existed even prior to the introduction of Section 132
 as would be manifest from a reading of Section 143(9) of the
 Companies Act alongside Section 147(2) thereof. It was argued that by
 virtue of the aforenoted two statutory provisions, non-compliance with
 SAs was a criminal offence which existed and stood recognized by law
 even prior to 2018 when Section 132 came to be introduced. It was thus
 submitted by Mr. Hossain that it would be wholly incorrect to suggest
 that either a vested right had come to be infringed or that the provisions
 of Section 132 violated rights and the protection flowing from Article
 20(1) of the Constitution. 178. Mr. Hossain then vehemently argued that Article 20(1) can
 clearly have no application since the expression penalty as appearing
 therein is used in a narrow sense and stands confined to a criminal
 prosecution. It was thus argued that the said provision is clearly
 inapplicable to a civil penalty arising out of disciplinary proceedings.
 According to Mr. Hossain while this proposition is well settled, since
 the petitioners have repeatedly alluded to an infraction of Article 20(1) ,
 it would be apposite to refer to the following enunciation of the legal
 position as it appears in Shiv Dutt Rai Fateh Chand vs. Union of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 280 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 India 56:- section (2-A) of Section 9 of the Act specifically refers to certain
 acts and omissions which are offences for which a criminal
 prosecution would lie and the provisions relating to offences have
 not been given retrospective effect by Section 9 of the Amending
 Act. The argument based on Article 20(1) of the Constitution is,
 therefore, rejected." 179. Proceeding along these lines, Mr. Hossain submitted that Section
 132 neither introduces a new or novel concept of misconduct nor does
 NFRA seek to levy a penalty greater than the quantum of penalty
 envisaged under the CA Act and which is a fine which may extend to
 INR 5 lakhs for all cases pertaining to the period prior to 2018. It was
 his submission that even the penalty of debarment is lesser when
 compared to the specter of permanent removal from the register by the
 Council as was envisioned under the CA Act . The challenge according
 to Mr. Hossain based on Article 20(1) of the Constitution is thus wholly
 misconceived. 180. It was further submitted that the essence of Section 132(4) of the
 Companies Act is essentially a change in the regulatory mechanism
 pertaining to audits and auditing standards driven by the legislative
 policy of bringing a certain class of auditors engaged in the audit of
 financial statements to be overseen by an expert body in public interest.
 It was his contention that Section 132 now envisages those cases being
 examined by an independent regulatory body in line with global
 practices and thus following the trend of the self- regulatory model
 which had earlier prevailed having been jettisoned the world over. Mr.
 Hossain submitted that Section 132(4) thus merely represents a change W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 282 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 in forum. Mr. Hossain submitted that the legislative amendments
 represented by Section 132 are also in sync with the observations of the
 Supreme Court and which had held that accounting firms can no longer
 be left to self-regulate and had underscored the need for the creation of
 an adequate oversight mechanism. 181. Mr. Hossain also referred to the following chart and with the aid
 of which he sought to illustrate and lend clarity to the aforenoted
 submissions. The chart which seeks to highlight the similarity between Section 21B of the CA Act and Section 132(4)(c) is reproduced below:- 182. Mr. Hossain argued that while interpreting a statutory provision,
 Courts as is well-settled, are obliged to bear in mind the nature of the
 remedy and the mischief which a Legislature seeks to address. Learned
 counsel thus urged us to interpret Section 132(4) in a manner which
 suppresses the mischief and furthers the cure. He referred to the
 celebrated Heydon's principle which came to be expounded in
 Heydon's Case 57 and submitted that since the system of a peer review
 had been found to be inadequate, Parliament was compelled to step in
 and formulate a new regulatory mechanism which would be more
 robust and responsive. The statutory procedure now embodied in
 Section 132(4), according to learned counsel, was intended to overcome
 the various shortcomings which beset the earlier statutory regime and to
 learn from the bitter experiences of the past. Learned counsel thus
 submitted that there exists no justification for the Court to strike down
 Section 132(4) on grounds as suggested by the petitioners. (1584) 76 ER 637 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 284 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 183. Mr. Hossain then contended that a statutory audit of a company
 was undoubtedly liable to be conducted in accordance with law and in
 compliance with the SAs which are binding on auditors by virtue of Section 143(9) of the Companies Act. These, according to learned
 counsel, were obligations which applied to auditors in general even
 prior to the introduction of Section 132(4). It was in the aforesaid light
 that Mr. Hossain submitted that the creation of the NFRA does not alter
 the liability of a statutory auditor. NFRA, according to Mr. Hossain, is
 merely envisaged to be an authority which would monitor and enforce
 compliance with existing SAs and which had themselves been
 formulated in accordance with law and were binding on statutory
 auditors. It was thus submitted that it would be wholly incorrect for the
 petitioners to argue that a new obligation stands created. This more so
 since NFRA would be obliged to examine allegations of misconduct on
 the anvil of SAs which already existed and which were liable to be
 adhered to by all statutory auditors in any case. 184. It was further argued that no person can claim to have a vested
 right in a particular forum. This principle, Mr. Hossain submitted,
 stands succinctly explained by the Supreme Court in New India
 Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Shanti Misra58 as would be evident from the
 following extracts of that judgment:- Otherwise the general rule is to make it retrospective. The expressions
 "arising out of an accident" occurring in sub-section (1) and "over the
 area in which the accident occurred", mentioned in sub-section (2)
 clearly show that the change of forum was meant to be operative
 retrospectively irrespective of the fact as to when the accident
 occurred. To that extent there was no difficulty in giving the answer in
 a simple way. But the provision of limitation of 60 days contained in
 sub-section (3) created an obstacle in the straight application of the
 well-established principle of law. If the accident had occurred within
 60 days prior to the constitution of the tribunal then the bar of
 limitation provided in sub-section (3) was not an impediment. An
 application to the tribunal could be said to be the only remedy. If such
 an application, due to one reason or the other, could not be made
 within 60 days then the tribunal had the power to condone the delay
 under the proviso. But if the accident occurred more than 60 days
 before the constitution of the tribunal then the bar of limitation
 provided in sub-section (3) of Section 110-A on its face was attracted.
 This difficulty of limitation led most of the High Courts to fall back
 upon the proviso and say that such a case will be a fit one where the
 tribunal would be able to condone the delay under the proviso to sub-
 section (3), and led others to say that the tribunal will have no
 jurisdiction to entertain such an application and the remedy of going
 to the civil court in such a situation was not barred under Section 110-
 F of the Act. While taking the latter view the High Court failed to
 notice that primarily the law engrafted in Sections 110-A and 110-F
 was a law relating to the change of forum." 185. Yet another decision which was cited for our consideration in
 this respect was that of Securities and Exchange Board of India vs.
 Classic Credit Ltd. 59 and to Paras 49 and 50 of the report which are
 reproduced hereinbelow:- And also, that generally change of "forum" of trial is procedural, and
 normally following the above proposition, it is presumed to be
 retrospective in nature unless the amending statute provides otherwise.
 This determination emerges from the decision of this Court
 in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra [Hitendra Vishnu
 Thakur v. State of Maharashtra, (1994) 4 SCC 602 : 1994 SCC (Cri)
 1087] ; Ranbir Yadav v. State of Bihar [Ranbir Yadav v. State of
 Bihar, (1995) 4 SCC 392 : 1995 SCC (Cri) 728] and Kamlesh
 Kumar v. State of Jharkhand [Kamlesh Kumar v. State of Jharkhand,
 (2013) 15 SCC 460 : (2014) 6 SCC (Cri) 489] , as well as, a number
 of further judgments noted above. 50. We have also no doubt, that alteration of "forum" has been
 considered to be procedural, and that, we have no hesitation in
 accepting the contention advanced on behalf of the SEBI, that change
 of "forum" being procedural, the amendment of the "forum" would
 operate retrospectively, irrespective of whether the offence allegedly
 committed by the accused was committed prior to the amendment." 186. Proceeding then to the Proviso to Section 132(4) itself, it was
 Mr. Hossain's contention that a plain reading of the Proviso would
 establish that the legislative intendment clearly was to debar any
 authority other than the NFRA from initiating an investigation even in
 respect of matters relating to professional or other misconduct
 committed prior to Section 132(4) coming into force. According to
 learned counsel the expression "such matters of misconduct" would
 clearly mean misconduct which may have been committed prior to 24
 October 2018, the date when Section 132(4) came into force.
 According to learned counsel, the language of the proviso leaves no
 room for doubt of the legislative intent being that allegations of
 professional misconduct arising out of audits falling within a specified
 class being examined exclusively by the NFRA. The fact that
 Parliament clearly intended for the NFRA to exclusively try such cases, W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 287 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 according to learned counsel, is further fortified by that provision in
 unambiguous terms also interdicting pending investigations and
 enquiries. The bar with respect to initiation as well as continuation of
 enquiries as created by that provision would, according to Mr. Hossain,
 lead one to the irrefutable conclusion of the statute intended to operate
 retroactively. 187. Mr. Hossain also commended for our consideration the concept
 of a continuing offense to submit that a misconduct even if committed
 in the past does not get effaced by mere passage of time. According to
 learned counsel, a misconduct is not governed by a statute of limitation
 on the basis of which the petitioners could have legitimately urged that
 a misdemeanor committed prior to 2018 cannot be enquired into.
 Learned counsel referred to the following definitions of the word
 "continue/continuing" as explained in the Black's Law Dictionary: - 188. Proceeding ahead to deal with the argument of retrospectivity,
 Mr. Hossain submitted that the fundamental principles which would
 govern the operation of statutes were lucidly enunciated by the
 Supreme Court in Zile Singh vs. State of Haryana60 in the following
 terms: - and (iv) what it was the legislature contemplated. (p. 388) The rule
 against retrospectivity does not extend to protect from the effect of a
 repeal, a privilege which did not amount to accrued right. (p. 392) 16. Where a statute is passed for the purpose of supplying an
 obvious omission in a former statute or to "explain" a former statute,
 the subsequent statute has relation back to the time when the prior W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 289 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Act was passed. The rule against retrospectivity is inapplicable to
 such legislations as are explanatory and declaratory in nature. A
 classic illustration is the case of Attorney General v. Pougett [(1816)
 2 Price 381 : 146 ER 130] (Price at p. 392). By a Customs Act of
 1873 (53 Geo. 3, c. 33) a duty was imposed upon hides of 9s 4d, but
 the Act omitted to state that it was to be 9s 4d per cwt., and to
 remedy this omission another Customs Act (53 Geo. 3, c. 105) was
 passed later in the same year. Between the passing of these two Acts
 some hides were exported, and it was contended that they were not
 liable to pay the duty of 9s 4d per cwt., but Thomson, C.B., in giving
 judgment for the Attorney General, said: (ER p. 134)
 "The duty in this instance was, in fact, imposed by the first
 Act; but the gross mistake of the omission of the weight, for
 which the sum expressed was to have been payable,
 occasioned the amendment made by the subsequent Act: but
 that had reference to the former statute as soon as it passed,
 and they must be taken together as if they were one and the
 same Act;" (Price at p. 392) 17. Maxwell states in his work on Interpretation of Statutes (12th
 Edn.) that the rule against retrospective operation is a presumption
 only, and as such it "may be overcome, not only by express words in
 the Act but also by circumstances sufficiently strong to displace it" (p. 226). Sometimes, where the sense of the statute demands it or
 where there has been an obvious mistake in drafting, a court will be
 prepared to substitute another word or phrase for that which actually
 appears in the text of the Act (p. 231). 18. In a recent decision of this Court in National Agricultural Coop.
 Marketing Federation of India Ltd. v. Union of India [(2003) 5 SCC
 23] it has been held that there is no fixed formula for the expression
 of legislative intent to give retrospectivity to an enactment. Every
 legislation whether prospective or retrospective has to be subjected
 to the question of legislative competence. The retrospectivity is
 liable to be decided on a few touchstones such as: (i) the words used
 must expressly provide or clearly imply retrospective operation; (ii)
 the retrospectivity must be reasonable and not excessive or harsh,
 otherwise it runs the risk of being struck down as unconstitutional; (iii) where the legislation is introduced to overcome a judicial
 decision, the power cannot be used to subvert the decision without
 removing the statutory basis of the decision. There is no fixed W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 290 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 formula for the expression of legislative intent to give retrospectivity
 to an enactment. A validating clause coupled with a substantive
 statutory change is only one of the methods to leave actions
 unsustainable under the unamended statute, undisturbed.
 Consequently, the absence of a validating clause would not by itself
 affect the retrospective operation of the statutory provision, if such
 retrospectivity is otherwise apparent. 19. The Constitution Bench in Shyam Sunder v. Ram Kumar [(2001)
 8 SCC 24] has held: (SCC p. 49, para 39)
 "Ordinarily when an enactment declares the previous law, it
 requires to be given retroactive effect. The function of a
 declaratory statute is to supply an omission or to explain a
 previous statute and when such an Act is passed, it comes
 into effect when the previous enactment was passed. The
 legislative power to enact law includes the power to declare
 what was the previous law and when such a declaratory Act
 is passed, invariably it has been held to be retrospective.
 Mere absence of use of the word 'declaration' in an Act
 explaining what was the law before may not appear to be a
 declaratory Act but if the court finds an Act as declaratory
 or explanatory, it has to be construed as retrospective." (p.
 2487). 20. In Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar [(1955) 2 SCR 603
 : AIR 1955 SC 661] , Heydon case [(1584) 3 Co Rep 7a : 76 ER
 637] was cited with approval. Their Lordships have said: (SCR pp.
 632-33)
 "It is a sound rule of construction of a statute firmly
 established in England as far back as 1584 when Heydon
 case [(1584) 3 Co Rep 7a : 76 ER 637] was decided that--
 '... for the sure and true interpretation of all statutes in
 general (be they penal or beneficial, restrictive or enlarging
 of the common law) four things are to be discerned and
 considered-- 1st. What was the common law before the making of the
 Act. 2nd. What was the mischief and defect for which the
 common law did not provide. 3rd. What remedy Parliament hath resolved and
 appointed to cure the disease of the Commonwealth, and
 4th. The true reason of the remedy; and then the office
 of all the judges is always to make such construction as
 shall suppress the mischief, and advance the remedy, and to
 suppress subtle inventions and evasions for continuance of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 291 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the mischief, and pro privato commodo, and to add force
 and life to the cure and remedy, according to the true intent
 of the makers of the Act, pro bono publico.' " 21. In Allied Motors (P) Ltd. v. CIT [(1997) 3 SCC 472] certain
 unintended consequences flowed from a provision enacted by
 Parliament. There was an obvious omission. In order to cure the
 defect, a proviso was sought to be introduced through an
 amendment. The Court held that literal construction was liable to be
 avoided if it defeated the manifest object and purpose of the Act.
 The rule of reasonable interpretation should apply. 189. Mr. Hossain submitted that a presumption against a retrospective
 applicability can only arise when a vested right is impaired. According
 to learned counsel, the petitioners have clearly failed to prove or
 establish that this primordial benchmark has been violated. It was Mr.
 Hossain's submission that no CA can possibly claim to have a vested
 right not to be tried for a misconduct. According to learned counsel, it
 would be preposterous to accept the argument of the petitioners that
 they acquired a perfected right to be tried for professional misconduct
 only in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the CA Act . 190. This more so since professional or other misconduct in any case
 in light of Section 22 of the CA Act already stood prohibited and
 statutorily declared to be illegal. It was submitted that the said statute
 itself envisaged an enquiry into allegations of misconduct and the
 consequential possibility of a CA being exposed to disciplinary action.
 Mr. Hossain thus submitted that absent any vested right being infringed W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 292 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 or impacted, the argument of retrospectivity is clearly misconceived
 and untenable. 191. It would be appropriate to preface our evaluation of the challenge
 to Section 132(4) on the basis of its perceived retroactive operation as
 well as Article 20(1) of the Constitution by taking note of the following
 two significant statements which were made by Mr. Hossain. Learned
 counsel firstly stated that NFRA has taken the considered position that
 it would impose no fines which exceed INR 5 lakhs in respect of any
 audit conducted prior to October 2018. It was in this regard further
 stated that any orders if passed by NFRA violating the aforenoted
 statement would be duly recalled to the aforesaid extent. It becomes
 pertinent to note that this statement assumes significance since
 undisputedly the maximum penalty which the CA Act envisages is INR
 5 lakhs. The statement so made thus and to an extent impacts the
 challenge which was mounted to the validity of Section 132(4) on the
 ground of it having introduced penalties which were more onerous and
 greater than those existing under the CA Act . 192. The second without prejudice statement, and clearly one which
 was of greater import and consequence, was that NFRA would not
 proceed against any firms in respect of an audit that may have been
 conducted prior to 20 October 2018. The aforesaid statement was made
 by Mr. Hossain notwithstanding his submission that the obligations of
 firms to comply with the law as well as the SAs predated the
 introduction of Section 132 in the Companies Act . However, and since
 that statement is duly taken on board and accepted, it obviates the Court
 ruling on the challenge raised by auditing firms to Section 132(4) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 293 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 insofar as it was sought to be extended to audits completed prior to
 October 2018 and the argument of it being retroactive. 193. However, the Court would still be required to deal with the
 challenge to its validity insofar as individual CAs' and pre-2018 audits
 to which they were a party is concerned. The related facet of the
 common challenge raised before us which too would survive for
 consideration would be the validity of Section 132(4) as applicable to
 audits that may be undertaken post its promulgation and as voiced by
 the two categories of writ petitioners before us. Having broadly
 delineated the contours of the challenge which survives, we proceed
 ahead to evaluate the submissions which were advanced in the context
 of the perceived retrospective operation of Section 132(4). 194. There cannot possibly be a cavil of doubt with respect to the
 well-established precept that statutes are generally presumed to be
 prospective in their operation. That presumption, undoubtedly,
 constitutes the starting point from which a court would embark upon its
 analysis. Equally well-settled is the principle of that presumption being
 dispelled only if a court were to find from the language of an enactment
 or a provision that the law maker intended otherwise. The intention of
 the legislative body can be discerned either from the express language
 in which a provision is couched or if it be not explicitly stated, where it
 is implicitly evident that it was intended to apply to events and acts of
 the past. 195. As Maxwell eloquently explains in his seminal work on
 Interpretation of Statutes [12th Edition], the rule against retrospective
 operation is only a presumption and as such "it may be overcome, not W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 294 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 only by express words in the Act but also by circumstances sufficiently
 strong to displace it." The rule as expounded by Maxwell was quoted
 with approval by our Supreme Court in Zile Singh and where it was
 pertinently observed that "If the dominant intention of the legislature
 can be clearly and doubtlessly spelt out, the inhibition contained in the
 rule against perpetuity becomes of doubtful applicability as the
 inhibition of the rule is a matter of degree......". What needs to be
 acknowledged is that the retrospective application of laws is not an
 aberration but a well-established and necessary tool to correct historical
 oversights, address legal vacuums, and ensure that legislative objectives
 are met in their true spirit. The determination of retrospectivity is
 guided by several factors, foremost among them being the intent of the
 Legislature, which may be discerned from the statutory language and
 the circumstances leading upto the law's enactment. Where the
 language of the provision indicates a clear or even implicit intent of
 being intended to have retrospective operation, Courts would give full
 effect to that intent, recognizing that legislative power extends not only
 to regulating future conduct but also to rectifying past anomalies. The
 necessity that may have prompted the enactment is another crucial
 factor. Often, laws are introduced to address pressing concerns, to
 correct that which has persisted for long due to outdated legal
 frameworks, or to fill gaps that have led to uncertainty or unfair
 advantage. In such cases, applying the law prospectively alone would
 fail to remedy the mischief the Legislature sought to address, rendering
 the enactment ineffective in achieving its true objective. 196. While innumerable decisions were cited by learned counsels W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 295 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 appearing for respective sides in this regard, in our considered opinion
 the legal position has remained unaltered and our understanding of the
 application and operation of statutes has over the centuries continued to
 be guided by the precepts culled out above. 197. A challenge to a statute on the ground of it being retrospective,
 however, is invariably and indelibly linked to how it impacts or
 infringes the rights of an individual or entity. The issue of
 retrospectivity thus becomes liable to be examined in the backdrop of
 how the enactment operates and affects the rights which inhere or may
 have come to be perfected prior to its promulgation. What we seek to
 emphasize is that the argument of retrospectivity cannot be evaluated in
 an abstract dimension. That submission has to be necessarily tested on
 what we find at the crossroads and intersection where the statute meets
 with the expanse of the bundle of rights which are asserted to exist. 198. The challenge to Section 132(4) and its retrospective application
 too would thus have to be appreciated on the assertion of certain rights,
 procedural or substantive, which could be said to have become absolute
 and fixed. The petitioners had essentially contended that the creation of
 penalties as well as the shifting of the adjudicatory function from the
 Council to the NFRA in respect of audits conducted prior to October
 2018 would lead one to necessarily come to the irresistible conclusion
 that the statute impacts rights retrospectively. 199. We at the outset note that the presumption against retrospectivity
 is founded on the jurisprudential principle of rights not being impaired
 by statutes which may come to be promulgated after the former have
 accrued or become absolute. We find a detailed explanation on the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 296 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 meaning liable to be ascribed to the word 'vested' in MGB Gramin
 Bank vs. Chakrawarti Singh61 and which would be of relevance:- 12. In Webster's Comprehensive Dictionary (International Edition)
 at p. 1397, "vested" is defined as law held by a tenure subject to no
 contingency; complete; established by law as a permanent right;
 vested interest. ( Vide Bibi Sayeeda v. State of Bihar [(1996) 9 SCC
 516 : AIR 1996 SC 1936] and J.S. Yadav v. State of U.P. [(2011) 6
 SCC 570 : (2011) 2 SCC (L&S) 140] ) 13. Thus, vested right is a right independent of any contingency and
 it cannot be taken away without consent of the person concerned.
 Vested right can arise from contract, statute or by operation of law.
 Unless an accrued or vested right has been derived by a party, the
 policy decision/scheme could be changed. [ Vide Kuldeep
 Singh v. Govt. (NCT of Delhi ). [(2006) 5 SCC 702 : AIR 2006 SC
 2652] ]" Vested rights were thus explained to mean those which would remain
 unimpacted by any future change in the legal position. Regard must be
 had to the fact that if the right hinges on an unsecured or contingent
 foundation, susceptible to modification by a change in the legislative
 scheme, then such a right was never truly vested, as it lacked the
 essential characteristics of being absolute, fixed, or immune to future
 alteration. 200. In Howrah Municipal Corporation. vs. Ganges Rope Co.
 Ltd 62, the Supreme Court was called upon to consider the correctness
 of a submission that an application for obtaining sanction to undertake
 construction would be governed by the law as it existed on the date
 when that application was made. Negating that contention, the Supreme
 Court held that it would be the law as prevalent on the date when the
 application arises for consideration which would apply. It was observed
 in Howrah Municipal Corporation that a person could not claim a
 "settled expectation" of an application for sanction being decided
 within a particular time. It proceeded further to hold that even such a
 settled expectation would not constitute a vested right. We deem it
 apposite to extract para 37 of that decision hereunder:- 201. This would constitute an appropriate juncture to view the
 celebrated enunciation of the principle of retrospectivity which is found
 in Halsbury's Laws of England and which has been repeatedly quoted
 with approval in various judgments handed down by the Supreme
 Court. The Halsbury's Law of England while defining the expression W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 299 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 "retrospective" had stated that a statute would not be construed as
 retrospective merely because a part of the requisites for its action is
 drawn from a time antecedent to its passing. The aforesaid proposition
 as mooted in that authoritative work was cited with approval by the
 Supreme Court in Darshan Singh vs. Ram Pal Singh63 and where the
 following observations appear:- The change of the forum for appeal by enactment may not affect the
 right of appeal itself. In the instant case we are concerned with the
 right to contest and not with the right to appeal as such. There is also
 no dispute as to the propositions of law regarding vested rights being
 not taken away by an enactment which is ex facie or by implication
 not retrospective. But merely because an Act envisages a past act or
 event in the sweep of its operation, it may not necessarily be said to
 be retrospective. Retrospective, according to Black's Law
 Dictionary, means looking backward; contemplating what is past;
 having reference to a statute or things existing before the Act in
 question. Retrospective law, according to the same dictionary,
 means a law which looks backward or contemplates the past; one 63 1992 Supp (1) SCC 191 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 300 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 which is made to affect acts or facts occurring, or rights occurring,
 before it came into force. Every statute which takes away or impairs
 vested rights acquired under existing laws, or creates a new
 obligation, imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability in
 respect to transactions or considerations already past. Retroactive
 statute means a statute which creates a new obligation on
 transactions or considerations already past or destroys or impairs
 vested rights. 36. In Halsbury's Laws of England (4th edn., Vol. 44, at paragraph 921) we find: 37. We are inclined to take the view that in the instant case
 legislature looked back to January 23, 1973 and not beyond to put an
 end to the custom and merely because on that cut off date some
 contests were brought to abrupt end would not make the Amendment
 Act retrospective. In other words, it would not be retrospective
 merely because a part of the requisites for its action was drawn from
 a time antecedent to the Amendment Act coming into force. We are
 also of the view that while providing that "no person shall contest
 any alienation of immovable property whether ancestral or non-
 ancestral or any appointment of an heir to such property", without
 preserving any right to contest such alienations or appointments as
 were made after the coming into force of the Principal Act and
 before the coming into force of the Amendment Act, the intention of
 the legislature was to cut off even the vested right; and that it was so
 by implication as well. There is no dispute as to the proposition that
 retrospective effect is not to be given to an Act unless, the legislature
 made it so by express words or necessary implication. But in the
 instant case it appears that this was the intention of the legislature.
 Similarly courts will construe a provision as conferring power to act
 retroactively when clear words are used. We find both the intention
 and language of the Amendment Act clear in these respects. 38. Craies on Statute Law (7th edn., page 389) has stated as under: We agree with the above statement of law. However, applying the Amending Act of 1973 to alienations prior to January 23, 1973 does
 not necessarily mean its retrospective operation." 202. As is apparent from the aforesaid discussion, while delving on
 the subject of retrospectivity of a legislation the Supreme Court had
 pertinently observed that while it is true that an enactment would not be
 construed as having retrospective operation unless such be the position
 which could be countenanced either on account of an express provision
 or by implication, merely because the statute takes into consideration a
 past act or event, that would not necessarily lead one to conclude that it
 be said to operates retrospectively. The Supreme Court in Darshan
 Singh, went even further to observe that a statute would be deemed to
 be retroactive only if it created a new obligation on transactions or
 considerations already past or where its application would result in the
 destruction or impairment of vested rights. 203. The rules so enunciated also find resonance in the following
 passages of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Securities and W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 302 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Exchange Board of India vs. Rajkumar Nagpal and Ors.64 :- (emphasis supplied) 100. In Vineeta Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma [Vineeta
 Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma, (2020) 9 SCC 1 : (2021) 1 SCC (Civ)
 119] this Court described the nature of prospective, retrospective,
 and retroactive laws : (SCC p. 53, para 61)
 "61. The prospective statute operates from the date of its
 enactment conferring new rights. The retrospective statute
 operates backwards and takes away or impairs vested rights
 acquired under existing laws. A retroactive statute is the one
 that does not operate retrospectively. It operates in futuro. (2023) 8 SCC 274 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 303 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 However, its operation is based upon the character or status
 that arose earlier. Characteristic or event which happened in
 the past or requisites which had been drawn from
 antecedent events." 101. The terms "retrospective" and "retroactive" are often used
 interchangeably. However, their meanings are distinct. This Court
 succinctly appreciated the difference between these concepts in State
 Bank's Staff Union (Madras Circle) v. Union of India [State Bank's Staff Union (Madras Circle) v. Union of India , (2005) 7 SCC 584 : 102. Many decisions of this Court define "retroactivity" to mean
 laws which destroy or impair vested rights. In real terms, this is the
 definition of "retrospectivity" or "true retroactivity". "Quasi-
 retroactivity" or simply "retroactivity" on the other hand is a law
 which is applicable to an act or transaction that is still underway.
 Such an act or transaction has not been completed and is in the
 process of completion. Retroactive laws also apply where the status
 or character of a thing or situation arose prior to the passage of the
 law. Merely because a law operates on certain circumstances which
 are antecedent to its passing does not mean that it is retrospective." 204. Hereto, the Supreme Court apart from revisiting the succinct
 exposition of the legal principle as propounded in Halsbury's Laws of
 England, it, and in addition, quoted with approval the view penned by
 the celebrated author G.P. Singh in 'Principles of Statutory
 Interpretation' and who had opined that if a statute were to be W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 304 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 acknowledged as being retrospective merely because it were found to
 draw from actions taken or completed prior to its passing, every statute
 would necessarily have to be presumed to apply only to persons born
 and things which had come into existence after its promulgation. The
 essential characteristics of a retroactive statute were further explained
 with the Supreme Court holding that although such an enactment would
 operate in futuro, its operation itself could be based upon a character or
 status that had arisen earlier. 205. Tested on the aforesaid principles, we find ourselves unable to
 sustain the argument that Section 132 is liable to be struck down on the
 ground that it operates retrospectively and impacts rights which may
 have been perfected or completed. It becomes relevant to note that the
 Explanation to Section 132(4) in unambiguous and explicit terms
 provides that the expression "professional or other misconduct" would
 have the same meaning as assigned to that phrase by Section 22 of the
 CA Act. Section 132 therefore, does not create a new species of
 misconduct nor does it create a liability which was otherwise not
 contemplated under a pre-existing legislation. "Professional or other
 misconduct" already stood defined by Section 22 of the CA Act and
 thus all actions of CAs and auditors were liable to be tested on the basis
 thereof. It would thus be wholly incorrect to contend that Section 132
 creates a new liability with respect to a misconduct or misdemeanor
 committed prior to October 2018. 206. The principal issue which weighs upon us and compels us to hold
 that the argument of retrospectivity is unmerited is the facet of
 professional misconduct having remained unaltered and only the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 305 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 manner and ambit of the inquiry having been amended for a particular
 class of audits. As noted hereinabove, the argument of retrospectivity is
 liable to be rejected also because it does not introduce new categories
 of misconduct or liabilities. Instead, it relies on the pre-existing
 definition of "professional or other misconduct" under Section 22 of the
 CA Act. Since the legal characterization of misconduct remains
 unchanged, the only discernible difference is the manner and scope of
 the inquiry under Section 132. 207. Suffice it to note that no auditor can possibly claim or assert a
 vested right having come to be created in respect of professional
 misconduct that may have been committed prior to Section 132 coming
 into force. We find ourselves unable to comprehend any right, leave
 alone a vested right, that could have been claimed to have come into
 existence in respect of professional conduct which would have fallen
 within the scope of Section 22 of the CA Act prior to the introduction
 of Section 132. Vested rights, as was observed in the preceding parts of
 this decision, would be those which had come to accrue, settle or had
 become absolute. 208. Vested rights are those which come to be perfected and would
 remain unimpacted by any contingency. Surely an auditor cannot
 possibly assert that it had acquired a settled expectation to not be tried
 in respect of professional or other misconduct merely because that act
 had come to be completed prior to Section 132 coming into force.
 Acceptance of the contention as broadly canvassed on behalf of the writ
 petitioners would essentially mean that professional or other
 misconduct if committed prior to October 2018 would stand insulated W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 306 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 and not be liable to be tried or inquired into under Section 132. We find
 ourselves unable to countenance that submission since a CA or an
 auditor cannot justifiably in law argue or assert that it is not liable to be
 tried for an act of misconduct. We do so observe conscious of the
 separate contention of the petitioners pertaining to the procedural
 safeguards which Section 132 allegedly does away with and which is an
 aspect that we propose to deal with in a subsequent segment of this
 decision. 209. We are thus of the firm opinion, that no right, let alone a vested
 right, accrued in favour of the writ petitioners and which could be said
 to be entitled to be insulated from the reach of Section 132(4). As was
 pertinently observed by the Supreme Court, a statute is not liable to be
 viewed as having retroactive operation merely because it draws upon an
 event or act which preceded its promulgation. Acts of misconduct
 committed prior to October 2018 were neither accorded nor conferred a
 shield of immunity. Section 132 does not create a new disqualification
 or create a novel set or category of misdemeanors to constitute
 professional or other misconduct. The conduct of an audit, an
 individual or a firm remains liable to be enquired into based on the
 obligations and duties which held the field even prior to the
 introduction of Section 132. The conduct of an audit would continue to
 be examined and evaluated based on those legal obligations and set of
 rules which existed earlier. 210. The scrutiny, test and rigor of conduct in the rendering of
 services as a professional or auditor is a well-understood, rooted and an
 accepted reality. To raise objections to the new and evolved rigors W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 307 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 under Section 132 on the ground that it exposes them to an
 unprecedented level of scrutiny and that they were previously protected
 from such rigors would be to incorrectly assume the existence of an
 immunity prior to Section 132. Therefore, any contention that Section
 132 unfairly introduces a novel and retrospective burden on auditors
 fails to acknowledge that the foundational principles of professional
 accountability have always remained intact. The only change is in the
 manner and extent of enforcement and not in the fundamental
 obligation of auditors to uphold professional and ethical standards. 211. Regard must also be had to the fact that the CA Act incorporated
 no provision for a firm being held liable for an audit that may have
 been conducted. The only contingency in which a firm could have been
 penalised were those envisaged in Sections 21A and 21B and which in
 turn stood confined to repeat offenses committed by the partner or
 member. Thus, even though the firm may have been appointed as an
 auditor, it was the individual partners who alone could have been
 proceeded against and punished. We have while dealing with the
 argument of vicarious liability already held that a firm cannot in law
 disavow or disassociate itself from the actions of its partners and
 members. They after all act in discharge of the principal obligation
 which stands placed upon the firm to undertake the audit. This was a
 serious lacuna and shortcoming in the CA Act . 212. Parliament as well as the expert groups which were formed had
 after undertaking an exhaustive review of global practices and norms
 ultimately come to the firm conclusion that peer review and self-
 corrective or in-house models had neither been found to be effective W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 308 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 nor efficacious. Section 132, viewed in that light, therefore borrows,
 learns and seeks to build upon regulatory regimes prevalent in other
 parts of the world and thus sync our regulatory practices with global
 norms. With the spread of international commerce and upon India
 becoming part of the globalized world order, Parliament appears to
 have acted in acknowledgement of the imperative need to review the
 regulatory scheme relating to audits as prevalent in different
 jurisdictions. 213. Parliament appears to have borne in consideration the indubitable
 necessity of financial statements being compliant with standards and
 best practices accepted as the benchmark in different jurisdictions. The
 system of audit and review in India had to necessarily keep abreast with
 the winds of change. The amendments embodied in Section 132 are
 thus a reflection of this change in policy and in that sense clearly
 remedial. We consequently find ourselves unable to accept the
 submissions of the writ petitioners addressed on this score. 214. On a consideration of the legislative history preceding the
 introduction of Section 132 clearly suggests a pre-existing regulatory
 deficiency or gap was sought to be addressed through the introduction
 of Section 132 aligning with the broader objective of strengthening
 oversight mechanisms and enhancing the quality of professional
 services rendered by audit firms. This measure was implemented not to
 create new liabilities but to bridge an existing gap in enforcement,
 ensuring that standards of professional conduct and accountability
 evolve in tandem with global best practices. 215. The enactment of Section 132 thus represents a progressive W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 309 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 regulatory shift, aimed at reinforcing compliance, raising the bar for
 audit quality, and ensuring that no aspect of professional misconduct or
 deficiency in service remains unchecked or unsupervised. By instituting
 a more structured and stringent framework, Section 132 ensures that
 audit firms and professionals adhere to internationally recognized
 standards, thereby fostering greater transparency, accountability, and
 confidence in financial reporting. 216. This regulatory evolution does not operate retrospectively in a
 punitive sense but rather brings India's auditing and financial oversight
 framework in line with global standards, ensuring that all professional
 conduct meets the highest levels of scrutiny and quality assurance. The
 underlying objective is to create a more robust and reliable regulatory
 ecosystem, where professional standards are continuously refined to
 prevent any compromise in audit quality or integrity 217. Of equal import is the Proviso to Section 132 (4) (a) and which
 prohibits any other institute or body to initiate or continue an
 investigation once the same has been taken over by the NFRA. The
 Proviso thus clearly seeks to operate both in respect of proceedings
 which may be either pending or under contemplation. In our considered
 opinion, the provision is a clear essay of the intent of Parliament to vest
 exclusive authority in the NFRA to investigate allegations of
 misconduct and to bring even pending proceedings within the scope of
 its investigation. 218. Regard may additionally be had to the fact that the power which
 is conferred upon the NFRA is available to be exercised only in respect
 of a particular class of bodies corporate or persons. Those are bodies W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 310 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 which are specified in Rule 3 of the NFRA Rules. The statute thus
 insofar as entities falling within the ambit of Rule 3 are concerned
 clearly removes such cases from the remit of any other council or body
 which could have under a pre-existing law investigated or initiated
 disciplinary action. One also cannot possibly ignore the non obstante
 clause which introduces sub-section (4) into the statute book and by
 virtue of which its provisions are ordained to apply notwithstanding any
 other law which may have been in force. 219. There is thus ample clarity with respect to the legislative intent
 which informs Section 132(4) and the NFRA having been conferred
 with an overriding power to initiate and take over enquiries and
 investigations. It is in this respect that the decision of the Supreme
 Court in New India Assurance assumes importance and which was an
 authority cited by Mr. Hossain in aid of his submission that Section
 132(4) amounted to a mere change of forum. We find that Section
 132(4) is fundamentally intended to confer an overarching authority
 upon the NFRA to investigate and enquire into matters relating to a
 particular class of bodies corporate and persons. Cases which are thus
 taken over by the NFRA would then be liable to be investigated by it
 exclusively. Such category of cases shall be liable to be tried only by
 that statutory authority. 220. However, and as was observed earlier, NFRA does not assume
 authority for the purposes of enquiring into a newly created specie of
 misconduct. Misconduct continues to be an act as defined by Section 22 of the CA Act. It is only the enquiry which would now be undertaken
 by the NFRA and which represents the new forum for the aforesaid W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 311 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 purpose. In New India Assurance the Supreme Court had observed that
 amendments of procedure which may compel one to institute an action
 before a newly minted forum would not be unconstitutional. Their
 Lordships had pertinently observed that what vests in an individual is
 "a right of action but not a vested right of forum". Of course, whether
 the procedure prescribed under the amended regime is fair, reasonable
 and does not cause prejudice is a separate issue altogether and the
 challenge mounted on that score by the writ petitioners is presently kept
 aside and shall be dealt with in the latter parts of this judgment. 221. However, the aforesaid discussion is liable to be appreciated
 subject to the following caveat. Our understanding of the imperatives
 underlying the introduction of Section 132(4) and which stands
 elucidated in the immediately preceding paragraphs was in the context
 of the broad challenge to the validity of that section which was
 addressed before us. This we state since NFRA has taken a principled
 stand that it does not propose to subject any firm or LLP to an action
 referrable to Section 132(4) for an audit undertaken prior to October
 2018. Our observations rendered hereinabove are thus liable to be
 appreciated solely from the perspective of the foundational validity of
 that provision and which could extend to firms and LLPs' for audits
 undertaken after the date when the section came into being. 222. That then takes us to the argument based on Article 20(1) of the
 Constitution and in terms of which it was sought to be contended that
 Section 132(4) is an ex post facto law and creates a punishment for an
 act or omission which had occurred prior to its enforcement.
 Controverting the submissions that were advanced by the petitioners, W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 312 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Mr. Hossain had cited for our consideration the decision of the
 Supreme Court in Shiv Dutt. The decision assumes significance in view
 of how the Supreme Court construed offences and punishment in the
 context of Article 20. In Shiv Dutt it was held that a penalty imposed
 under a Sales Tax legislation is only a civil liability albeit having the
 attributes of being penal. However, the Supreme Court held that such
 penalties would not fall within the ken of Article 20(1) and which
 would have to be narrowly interpreted as relating to a payment made in
 the context of deprivation of liberty or as a consequence of a finding of
 guilt coming to be returned against a person accused of a crime. 223. The principle that a civil liability would not fall within the
 meaning of the word offense as it appears in Article 20(1) of the
 Constitution came to be reiterated by a Constitution Bench of the
 Supreme Court in Hathising Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. Union of
 India 65, with Shah J. observing as under:- 224. This position came to be reaffirmed by the Supreme Court in Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Ajay Agarwal 66 and
 which again held that a penalty imposed in the context of adjudicatory
 proceedings would not fall within the ambit of Article 20(1) of the
 Constitution. While reiterating the legal position which had been
 enunciated in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh vs. State of Vindhya
 Pradesh 67, the Supreme Court held that even if penalty had come to be
 imposed in the context of adjudicatory proceedings, Article 20(1) would have no application since the person foisted with the penalty
 cannot be called an accused. We deem it apposite to extract the
 following paragraphs from the decision in Ajay Agarwal: 27. If we look at the definition of "offence" under the General
 Clauses Act, 1897 it shall mean any act or an omission made
 punishable by any law for the time being in force. Therefore, the
 order of restrain for a specified period cannot be equated with
 punishment for an offence as has been defined under the General
 Clauses Act . 28. Under the Criminal Procedure Code , "offence" has been defined
 under Section 2(n) as follows: 29. On a comparison of the aforesaid two definitions we find that
 there are common links between the two. An offence would always
 mean an act of omission or commission which would be punishable
 by any law for the time being in force. 30. Article 20(1) was interpreted by the Court in Rao Shiv Bahadur
 Singh v. State of Vindhya Pradesh [(1953) 2 SCC 111 : AIR 1953
 SC 394 : 1953 Cri LJ 1480] . Jagannadha Das, J. speaking for the
 Constitution Bench, on a comparison of similar provisions in
 English law and the American Constitution, opined that the language
 used in Article 20 is in much wider terms. This Court held that: (AIR
 p. 398, para 8)
 "8. ... what is prohibited is the conviction of a person or his
 subjection to a penalty under 'ex post facto' laws. The
 prohibition under the article is not confined to the passing
 or the validity of the law, but extends to the conviction or
 the sentence and is based on its character as an 'ex post
 facto' law." The ratio of this judgment has again been affirmed in State of
 W.B. v. S.K. Ghosh [AIR 1963 SC 255 : (1963) 1 Cri LJ 252] ,
 wherein another Constitution Bench of this Court speaking through
 Wanchoo, J., as His Lordship then was, held that a forfeiture by a
 District Judge under Section 13(3) of the Criminal Laws
 Amendment Ordinance of 1944 cannot be equated to a forfeiture
 under Section 53 IPC inasmuch as forfeiture under Section 13(3) of
 the Ordinance involved embezzlement of government money or
 property and the same is not a punishment or penalty within the
 meaning of Article 20(1) of the Constitution (see paras 14 and 15 of
 the judgment). 31. Even if penalty is imposed after an adjudicatory proceeding,
 persons on whom such penalty is imposed cannot be called an
 accused. It has been held that proceedings under Section 23 (1- A) of
 the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 are adjudicatory in
 character and not criminal proceedings [see Director of
 Enforcement v. MCTM Corpn. (P) Ltd. [(1996) 2 SCC 471 : 1996
 SCC (Cri) 344] ]. Persons who are subjected to such penalties are
 also not entitled to the protection under Article 20(1) of the
 Constitution. 32. Following the aforesaid ratio, this Court cannot hold that
 protection under Article 20(1) of the Constitution in respect of ex
 post facto laws is available to the respondent in this case. 33. If we look at the legislative intent for enacting the said Act, it
 transpires that the same was enacted to achieve the twin purposes of
 promoting orderly and healthy growth of securities market and for
 protecting the interest of the investors. The requirement of such an
 enactment was felt in view of substantial growth in the capital
 market by increasing the participation of the investors. In fact such
 enactment was necessary in order to ensure the confidence of the
 investors in the capital market by giving them some protection. 34. The said Act is pre-eminently a social welfare legislation seeking
 to protect the interests of common men who are small investors. It is
 a well-known canon of construction that when the court is called
 upon to interpret provisions of a social welfare legislation the
 paramount duty of the court is to adopt such an interpretation as to
 further the purposes of law and if possible eschew the one which
 frustrates it. Keeping this principle in mind if we analyse some of
 the provisions of the Act it appears that the Board has been
 established under Section 3 as a body corporate and the powers and W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 316 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 functions of the Board have been clearly stated in Chapter IV and
 under Section 11 of the said Act." 225. In Yogendra Kumar Jaiswal vs. State of Bihar68 , the Supreme
 Court was faced with a similar challenge contained in a statute
 promulgated by the Legislature of the State of Orissa and which had
 contemplated confiscation of properties. Following the line of
 precedents rendered in the context of Article 20(1) , the Supreme Court
 held that confiscation was clearly not a punishment which would attract Article 20(1). We extract the following passages from that decision
 hereinbelow: 148. The learned counsel for the appellants would submit that under
 the 1988 Act the accused were liable to face attachment during trial
 and forfeiture after conviction but by virtue of the Orissa Act they
 are compelled to face confiscation as a consequence of which they
 are deprived of the possession and the property goes to the State
 Government. The learned counsel for the State would submit that the
 forfeiture is provided after the conviction as the property has to be
 forfeited and embezzled amount requires to be realised but it does
 not debar the legislature to provide confiscation of property as an
 interim measure by providing an adequate adjudicatory process. It is
 also submitted that the offence under Section 13(1)(e) has its gravity
 and, therefore, the stringent interim measure is the requisite.
 Alternatively, it is argued that when forfeiture was prescribed, and
 attachment of property was provided as an interim measure, different
 arrangement, may be a stringent one, can always be provided by the
 legislature. 149. We have already held that confiscation is not a punishment and
 hence, Article 20(1) is not violated. The learned counsel for the State
 would lay stress on the decision in State of A.P. v. Gandhi [State of
 A.P. v. Gandhi, (2013) 5 SCC 111 : (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 884] . In
 that case, the issue that arose for consideration was : when the
 disciplinary proceeding was initiated one type of punishment was
 imposable and when the punishment was imposed due to
 amendment of rule, a different punishment, which was a greater one,
 was imposed. The High Court opined that the punishment imposed
 under the amended rule amounted to imposition of two major
 penalties which was not there in the old rule. Dealing with the issue W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 318 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the Court referred to the rule that dealt with major penalties and the
 rule-making power. Reference was made to the decision in Pyare
 Lal Sharma v. J&K Industries Ltd. [Pyare Lal Sharma v. J&K
 Industries Ltd., (1989) 3 SCC 448 : 1989 SCC (L&S) 484] wherein
 it has been stated that no one can be penalised on the ground of a
 conduct which was not penal on the date it was committed. Thereafter, the two-Judge Bench referred to the authority in K.
 Satwant Singh v. State of Punjab [K. Satwant Singh v. State of
 Punjab, AIR 1960 SC 266 : 1960 Cri LJ 410] wherein it has been
 held thus : ( Gandhi case [ State of A.P. v. Gandhi , (2013) 5 SCC 111
 : (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 884] , SCC pp. 133-34, para 46)
 "46. ... '28. ... In the present case a sentence of
 imprisonment was, in fact, imposed and the total of fines
 imposed, whether described as 'ordinary' or 'compulsory',
 was not less than the amount of money procured by the
 appellant by means of his offence. Under Section 420 of the
 Penal Code an unlimited amount of fine could be imposed. Article 20(1) of the Constitution is in two parts. The first
 part prohibits a conviction of any person for any offence
 except for violation of law in force at the time of the
 commission of the act charged as an offence. The latter part
 of the article prohibited the imposing of a penalty greater
 than that which might have been inflicted under the law in
 force at the time of the commission of the offence. The
 offence with which the appellant had been charged was
 cheating punishable under Section 420 of the Penal Code
 which was certainly a law in force at the time of the
 commission of the offence. The sentence of imprisonment
 which was imposed upon the appellant was certainly not
 greater than that permitted by Section 420. The sentence of
 fine also was not greater than that which might have been
 inflicted under the law which had been in force at the time
 of the commission of the offence, as a fine unlimited in
 extent could be imposed under the section.'" (K. Satwant
 Singh case [ K. Satwant Singh v. State of Punjab , AIR 1960
 SC 266 : 1960 Cri LJ 410] , AIR p. 275, para 28) 150. Thereafter, the Court referred to Maya Rani Punj v. CIT [Maya
 Rani Punj v. CIT, (1986) 1 SCC 445 : 1986 SCC (Tax) 220] , K.
 Satwant Singh [K. Satwant Singh v. State of Punjab , AIR 1960 SC
 266 : 1960 Cri LJ 410] and Tiwari Kanhaiyalal v. CIT [Tiwari
 Kanhaiyalal v. CIT, (1975) 4 SCC 101 : 1975 SCC (Cri) 312 : 1975
 SCC (Tax) 214] and eventually held : ( Gandhi case [ State of
 A.P. v. Gandhi , (2013) 5 SCC 111 : (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 884] , SCC
 p. 135, para 51) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 319 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 "51. ... The order of compulsory retirement is a lesser
 punishment than dismissal or removal as the pension of a
 compulsorily retired employee, if eligible to get pension
 under the Pension Rules, is not affected. Rule 9(vii) was
 only dealing with reduction or reversion but issuance of any
 other direction was not a part of it. It has come by way of
 amendment. The same being a lesser punishment than the
 maximum, in our considered opinion, is imposable and the
 disciplinary authority has not committed any error by
 imposing the said punishment, regard being had to the
 nature of charges. It can be looked from another angle. The
 rule-making authority has split Rule 9(vii) into two parts--
 one is harsher than the other, but, both are less severe than
 the other punishments, namely, compulsory retirement,
 removal from service or dismissal. The reason behind it, as
 we perceive, is not to let off one with simple reduction but
 to give a direction about the condition of pay on restoration
 and also not to impose a harsher punishment which may not
 be proportionate. In our view, the same really does not
 affect any vested or accrued right. It also does not violate
 any constitutional protection." 151. We are absolutely conscious that the said judgment was
 delivered in a different context. What is prohibited under Article
 20(1) is imposition of greater punishment that might have been
 imposed and prohibition of a conviction of any person for violation
 of law at the time of commission of the act. We repeat at the cost of
 repetition that confiscation being not a punishment does not come in
 either of the categories. Thus viewed, the property of an accused
 facing trial under the 1988 Act could be attached and there can be
 administration by third party of the said property and eventual
 forfeiture after conviction. The term "attachment" has been
 understood by this Court in Kerala State Financial Enterprises
 Ltd. v. Official Liquidator [Kerala State Financial Enterprises
 Ltd. v. Official Liquidator, (2006) 10 SCC 709] in the following
 manner : (SCC p. 713, para 11)
 "11. The word 'attachment' would only mean 'taking into
 the custody of the law the person or property of one already
 before the court, or of one whom it is sought to bring before
 it'. It is used for two purposes : (i) to compel the appearance
 of a defendant; and (ii) to seize and hold his property for the
 payment of the debt. It may also mean prohibition of
 transfer, conversion, disposition or movement of property
 by an order issued by the court." 152. The legislature has thought it proper to change the nature and
 character of the interim measure. The property obtained by ill-gotten
 gains, if prima facie found to be such by the authorised officer, is to
 be confiscated. An accused has no vested right as regards the interim
 measure. He is not protected by any constitutional right to advance
 the plea that he cannot be made liable to face confiscation
 proceedings of the property which has been accumulated by illegal
 means. That being the litmus test, the filament of reasoning has to
 rest in favour of confiscation and not against it. Therefore, we are of
 the considered view that the provision does not violate any
 constitutional assurance." 226. The precedents thus rendered in the context of Article 20(1) clearly appear to exclude civil liabilities or penalties that may come to
 be imposed from the ambit of that constitutional prohibition. The scope
 of Article 20(1) has thus been consistently explained to be confined to
 crimes and punishments as generally understood. In any event, an act of
 professional misconduct was liable to be penalised and punishment
 meted out even earlier and had existed as such decades prior to the
 insertion of Section 132 in the Companies Act . Section 132, as noticed
 hereinabove, merely adopts the meaning assigned to misconduct by the CA Act for the purposes of proceedings that may be initiated
 thereunder. The argument based on Article 20(1) is thus liable to be
 rejected on this score alone. 227. We thus come to the conclusion that the present case does not
 fall within the ambit of Article 20(1) as it neither involves the creation
 of a new offence nor the imposition of a criminal penalty with
 retrospective effect. The disciplinary consequences for professional
 misconduct had always existed under the CA Act and Section 132
 merely reinforces and formalizes the enforcement framework without
 altering the substantive nature of misconduct. Since Article 20(1) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 321 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 applies exclusively to criminal offences and punishments, and the
 present case pertains to civil and regulatory disciplinary proceedings,
 its invocation is clearly misconceived. Moreover, professional
 misconduct was always subject to scrutiny and Section 132 does not
 introduce an unprecedented liability but only refines the mechanism for
 inquiry and enforcement. Thus, the challenge based on Article 20(1) is
 without merit. 228. While it is true that the monetary penalties that are imposed by
 Section 132(4) could exceed those which were prescribed under the CA
 Act , the challenge so raised in any case remains of little significance in
 light of the statement made by Mr. Hossain and who had submitted that
 no monetary penalties exceeding INR 5 Lakhs would be imposed in
 respect of any audit conducted prior to 2018. 229. Regard must also be had to the fact that the debarment which
 may come to be imposed upon a member or the firm could run for a
 minimum period of six months or such higher period not exceeding ten
 years as may be determined by the NFRA. This may be contrasted with
 the position which prevails under the CA Act and contemplates the
 name of a CA or an auditor being removed permanently from the
 register of members. The removal from the register thus had the
 potential of depriving a CA from practicing the profession for all times
 to come. The punishment thus which has now come to be introduced
 clearly cannot be said to be greater than that which could have been
 imposed under the CA Act . NFRA RULES : LACK OF PROCEDURAL SAFEGUARDS 230. The validity of Section 132(4) as well as the procedure adopted W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 322 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 by the NFRA was then assailed on the ground of the latter having
 deprived the petitioners of various significant rights and procedural
 safeguards which were otherwise provisioned for under the CA Act and
 the subordinate rules governing the conduct of disciplinary
 proceedings. It was submitted that the Act as well as the NFRA Rules
 merely provide for that authority evolving such procedure as may be
 considered expedient in the facts of a particular case. The statute, the
 petitioners argued, neither lays in place a codified procedure for the
 conduct of disciplinary proceedings nor do its provisions provide any
 guidance to the NFRA to adhere to a procedure which would be
 commensurate with the constitutional imperatives of fairness and
 natural justice. Our attention was also drawn to Rule 11(5) with the
 petitioners highlighting the fact that the said rule merely enjoins a
 division of the NFRA to dispose of the SCN proceedings through a
 summary procedure albeit while adhering to the principles of natural
 justice. 231. The note submitted by DHS enclosed a chart which sought to
 highlight the substantive differences between the disciplinary procedure
 as existing under the CA Act with how proceedings would unfold under
 the NFRA Rules. That chart is reproduced hereinbelow:- 237. It becomes pertinent to note that Rule 8 though cited in this
 regard is principally concerned with the power of the NFRA to monitor
 and enforce compliance with auditing standards. Although not directly
 connected with disciplinary proceedings since the same was referred to,
 we only note that the argument essentially was that since the authority
 stands empowered to review working papers including audit plans,
 other audit documents and communications related to audit coupled
 with the power conferred upon the authority by Rule 8(3) enabling
 NFRA to call for and seek additional information or explanation in
 connection with the conduct of an audit, there exists no plausible
 justification for the defense of the auditor being confined to the audit
 file alone. 238. Resisting the aforesaid arguments, Mr. Hossain contended that
 the challenge based on the inquiry being restricted to the audit file
 documentation is thoroughly misconceived since the said limitation
 binds and operates upon the NFRA also. Quite apart from the above,
 Mr. Hossain submitted that not only Section 143(9) but the specific
 SAs themselves lay emphasis on the audit record being comprehensive
 and including all material forming part of the audit exercise itself.
 Reference in this respect was specifically made to the provisions
 contained in SA 230, SA 500 and SQC1. It was Mr. Hossain's
 submission that the essential purpose of all records pertaining to the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 335 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 audit being preserved and maintained is to enable external inspection
 and review. It was submitted that the completeness of the audit file is
 an aspect which is duly highlighted and underscored by SA 230. 239. It was further submitted that in fact Para A5 of SA 230 itself
 provides that oral explanations that may be proffered by an auditor
 would not be liable to be taken into consideration nor would they
 "represent adequate support for the work auditor performed or
 conclusions the auditor reached". Oral explanations, Mr. Hossain
 submitted in terms of Para A5 can only be used to explain or clarify
 information contained in the audit documentation. It was thus submitted
 that the NFRA is clearly justified in restricting the enquiry proceedings
 to the audit file and excluding the introduction of additional evidence. 240. Mr. Hossain then contended that merely because the statute
 speaks of a summary procedure, the same cannot lead to a presumption
 being drawn that the proceedings would inevitably be in violation of the
 fundamental precepts of fair play or for that matter the principles of
 natural justice. Mr. Hossain submitted that such a course is adopted
 even by the PCAOB as would be evident from a reading of Rule
 5427(d) which makes the following provisions:- 241. It was thus argued that since the only proof accepted is the audit
 file, a summary procedure can neither be said to be arbitrary nor
 violative of the basic principles of fair play which must imbue all
 actions of an administrative authority. Learned counsel in this context
 also relied upon the decision of the Hyderabad High Court in Institute
 of Chartered Accountants of India vs. Mukesh Gang71 which while
 speaking of the procedure liable to be followed under the CA Act which respect to disciplinary proceedings had held as follows:- 242. The aforesaid principles as enunciated in Mukesh Gang,
 according to Mr. Hossain, would, a fortiori, apply to disciplinary
 proceedings under the NFRA Rules. Mr. Hossain submitted that the
 degree of proof or evidence which is required in disciplinary
 proceedings that may be initiated by the NFRA, is not expected to meet
 the test of guilt being proven beyond reasonable doubt and which is the
 fundamental test governing criminal trials. Disciplinary proceedings,
 learned counsel submitted are concerned solely with preponderance of
 probabilities. It was submitted that other regulatory bodies including
 the PCAOB and the FRC also follow a similar criterion of deciding
 charges of professional misconduct based on persuasive evidence. Our
 attention in this respect was invited to Rule 5204 which guides the
 PCAOB in the conduct of disciplinary proceedings and is extracted
 hereunder:- Note: Unless the Board has directed otherwise, the Board expects
 hearing officers in proceedings instituted pursuant to Rule
 5200(a)(1) or Rule 5200(a)(2) to prepare initial decisions within 60
 days after the deadline for filing post-hearing briefs or other
 submissions; the Board expects hearing officers in proceedings
 instituted solely pursuant to Rule 5200(a)(3) to prepare initial
 decisions within 30 days after the deadline for filing post-hearing
 briefs; and the Board expects hearing officers in proceedings
 pursuant to Rule 5500 to prepare initial decisions within 45 days
 after the deadline for filing post-hearing briefs or other submissions. (c) Filing, Service and Publication
 The hearing officer shall file the initial decision with the Secretary.
 The Secretary shall promptly serve the initial decision upon the
 parties. In a public proceeding, the Secretary shall as soon as
 practicable thereafter publish the initial decision, unless the Board
 otherwise directs. decision of the Board as to that party upon issuance of a notice of
 finality by the Secretary. (2) Subject to subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, the Secretary
 shall issue a notice of finality no later than 20 days after the lapsing
 of the time period for filing a petition for review of the initial
 decision. (3) The Secretary shall not issue a notice of finality as to any
 party (i) who has filed a timely petition for review; or (ii) with respect to whom the Board has ordered review of the
 initial decision pursuant to Rule 5460(b)." 243. It was then contended that it would be wholly incorrect to seek
 similarity in the procedure that was prescribed under the CA Act with
 the Rules which regulate the conduct of disciplinary proceedings by the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 339 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 NFRA. It was submitted that the Council under the CA Act is also
 enjoined to try complaints that may be made against members. NFRA
 proceedings on the other hand, it was explained, are merely concerned
 with monitoring the quality of service related to the audit. Those
 proceedings, Mr. Hossain submitted, can be initiated either suo moto or
 upon a reference being received by the NFRA from an appropriate
 authority. Viewed in that light, it was his contention, that it would be
 wholly incorrect to view the disciplinary proceedings as being
 adversarial and consequently obliging the NFRA to factor in an
 opportunity of cross-examination or recordal of evidence. 244. It was lastly urged that a statute is not rendered unconstitutional
 merely if it fails to stipulate a procedure or prescribe a code for the
 conduct of disciplinary proceedings. The submission was that as long as
 an authority adheres to a procedure which is reasonable and compliant
 with the principles enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution, the
 statute itself would not be liable to be struck down. Reliance in this
 respect was placed upon a decision handed down by a Division of the
 Court in Reckitt Benckiser India Private Limited vs. Union of India
 Through : Its Secretary & Ors 72 where the Court had observed as
 under:- 245. This would constitute an appropriate juncture to additionally
 notice some of the decisions that were cited for our consideration by
 respective sides. From the side of the writ petitioners reliance was
 firstly placed on an Advocate vs. Bar Council of India 73 and where
 the Supreme Court while examining Section 35 of the Advocates Act
 had held as follows:- A disciplinary proceeding by a statutory body of the members of the
 profession which is statutorily empowered to impose a punishment
 including a punishment of such immense proportions is quasi-
 criminal in character; (ii) as a logical corollary it follows that the Disciplinary Committee
 empowered to conduct the enquiry and to inflict the punishment on
 behalf of the body, in forming an opinion must be guided by the
 doctrine of benefit of doubt and is under an obligation to record a
 finding of guilt only upon being satisfied beyond reasonable doubt.
 It would be impermissible to reach a conclusion on the basis of
 preponderance of evidence or on the basis of surmise, conjecture or
 suspicion. It will also be essential to consider the dimension
 regarding mens rea." This proposition is hardly open to doubt or debate particularly
 having regard to the view taken by this Court in L.D.
 Jaisinghani v. Naraindas N. Punjabi [(1976) 1 SCC 354] wherein
 Ray, C.J., speaking for the Court has observed: (SCC p. 358, para 9)
 "In any case, we are left in doubt whether the
 complainant's version, with which he had come forward with
 considerable delay was really truthful. We think that in a case
 of this nature, involving possible disbarring of the advocate
 concerned, the evidence should be of a character which should
 leave no reasonable doubt about guilt. The Disciplinary
 Committee had not only found the appellant guilty but had
 disbarred him permanently." (emphasis added) (iii) in the event of a charge of negligence being levelled against an
 advocate, the question will have to be decided whether negligence
 simpliciter would constitute misconduct. It would also have to be
 considered whether the standard expected from an advocate would
 have to answer the test of a reasonably equipped prudent practitioner
 carrying reasonable workload. A line will have to be drawn between
 tolerable negligence and culpable negligence in the sense of
 negligence which can be treated as professional misconduct
 exposing a member of the profession to punishment in the course of
 disciplinary proceedings. In forming the opinion on this question the
 standards of professional conduct and etiquette spelt out in Chapter 2
 of Part VI of the Rules governing advocates, framed under Section W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 342 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 60(3) and Section 49(1)(g) of the Act, which form a part of the Bar
 Council of India Rules may be consulted. As indicated, in the
 preamble of the Rules, an advocate shall, at all times compose
 himself in a manner befitting his status as an officer of the court, a
 privileged member of the community and a gentleman bearing in
 mind what may be lawful and moral for one who is not a member of
 the Bar may still be improper for an advocate and that his conduct is
 required to conform to the rules relating to the duty to the court, the
 duty to the client, to the opponent, and the duty to the colleagues, not
 only in letter but also in spirit. It is in the light of these principles the Disciplinary Committee
 would be required to approach the question as regards the guilt or
 otherwise of an advocate in the context of professional misconduct
 levelled against him. In doing so apart from conforming to such
 procedure as may have been outlined in the Act or the Rules, the
 Disciplinary Authority would be expected to exercise the power with
 full consciousness and awareness of the paramount consideration
 regarding principles of natural justice and fair play." 246. The petitioners then pressed into aid the judgment of the
 Supreme Court in L.D Jaisinghani vs. Naraindas Punjabi74 which
 too was in respect of disciplinary action taken against an advocate. In
 that decision, the Supreme Court had observed:- 247. The petitioners had also sought to invoke the principle of
 manifest arbitrariness in the context of Rule 11(5) failing to incorporate
 appropriate safeguards and defining the content of the summary
 procedure that the NFRA is obliged to adopt. In order to explain the
 precept of manifest arbitrariness and which has now become an
 indelible part of our jurisprudence insofar as constitutional validity of
 statutes is concerned, the petitioners relied upon the following passages
 from the celebrated decision of the Supreme Court in Shreya Singal vs.
 Union of India 75:- 98. The submission is vague : the learned Additional Solicitor
 General does not indicate which part or parts of Section 66-A can
 possibly be saved. This Court in Romesh Thappar v. State of
 Madras [Romesh Thapparv. State of Madras, 1950 SCR 594 : 1950
 SCC 436 : AIR 1950 SC 124 : (1950) 51 Cri LJ 1514] repelled a
 contention of severability when it came to the courts enforcing the
 fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) in the following terms : The learned Judge refers to the practice of the Supreme Court of the
 United States in Claude C. Caually v. General Construction
 Co. [(1926) 70 L Ed 332] where it was observed: The learned Judge observes in relation to this as follows: Relying on the observations of Kania, C.J., in A.K. Gopalan v. State
 of Madras [1950 SCC 228 : (1950) SCR 88] to the effect that a law
 cannot be declared void because it is opposed to the spirit supposed
 to pervade the Constitution but not expressed in words, the
 conclusion above set out is reiterated. The learned Judge, however,
 adds that the words "cattle fair" in act there considered, are
 sufficiently clear and there is no vagueness. 45. These observations which are clearly obiter are apt to be too
 generally applied and need to be explained. While it is true that the
 principles evolved by the Supreme Court of the United States of
 America in the application of the Fourteenth Amendment were
 eschewed in our Constitution and instead the limits of restrictions on
 each fundamental right were indicated in the clauses that follow the
 first clause of the nineteenth article, it cannot be said as an absolute
 principle that no law will be considered bad for sheer vagueness.
 There is ample authority for the proposition that a law affecting
 fundamental rights may be so considered. A very pertinent example
 is to be found in State of Madhya Pradesh and Another v. Baldeo
 Prasad [(1961) 1 SCR 970 at 979] where the Central Provinces and
 Berar Goondas Act, 1946 was declared void for uncertainty. The
 condition for the application of Sections 4 and 4-A was that the
 person sought to be proceeded against must be a Goonda but the
 definition of Goonda in the Act indicated no tests for deciding which
 person fell within the definition. The provisions were therefore held
 to be uncertain and vague. 46. The real rule is that if a law is vague or appears to be so, the
 court must try to construe it, as far as may be, and language
 permitting, the construction sought to be placed on it, must be in
 accordance with the intention of the Legislature. Thus if the law is W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 347 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 open to diverse construction, that construction which accords best
 with the intention of the Legislature and advances the purpose of
 legislation, is to be preferred. Where however the law admits of no
 such construction and the persons applying it are in a boundless sea
 of uncertainty and the law prima facie takes away a guaranteed
 freedom, the law must be held to offend the Constitution as was
 done in the case of the Goonda Act . This is not application of the
 doctrine of due process. The invalidity arises from the probability of
 the misuse of the law to the detriment of the individual. If possible,
 the Court instead of striking down the law may itself draw the line of
 demarcation where possible but this effort should be sparingly made
 and only in the clearest of cases." 249. Another argument that was addressed by the writ petitioners was
 of Section 132(4) suffering from the vice of invidious discrimination. It
 was argued that while auditors generally are guaranteed salutary rights
 under the CA Act when faced with allegations of professional
 misconduct, auditors and firms falling within Rule 3 would face the
 specter of a trial in accordance with a summary procedure and thus
 deprived of the right to lead evidence, cross-examination and the
 various other procedural safeguards which otherwise imbue enquiries
 conducted under the CA Act . This according to the writ petitioners
 results in hostile discrimination amongst members otherwise forming
 part of a homogenous class. The petitioners also assailed the validity of
 the procedure followed by the NFRA arguing that the denial of legal
 assistance which could otherwise be availed of under the CA Act has
 been done away with and which renders the impugned provisions
 wholly arbitrary and liable to be struck down. 250. Controverting the aforenoted submissions, Mr. Hossain
 submitted that a right of cross examination cannot be elevated to the
 status of an inviolable facet of natural justice. Learned counsel in this
 respect cited for our consideration the decision of the Supreme Court in W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 348 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 M/s Kanugo & Company vs. Collector of Customs 77 and where the
 following observations appear:- 251. Mr. Hossain then argued that the principles of natural justice, as
 is well settled, are not mantras or incantations but a set of fundamental
 rules of fair play which we have recognised as being applicable to a
 varied nature of proceedings. However, it was submitted that their
 application would depend upon the character of the proceedings. It was
 his contention that since the proceedings envisaged under Section
 132(4) do not entail the NFRA relying upon any oral evidence, the right
 of cross examination as claimed is thoroughly misconceived. Learned
 counsel also questioned the challenge to the provisions on the ground of
 NFRA refusing lawyers to represent auditors and submitted that legal
 assistance in such enquiries has never been recognised to be a
 fundamental right. It was his submission that the writ petitioners, in any
 case, were not pitted against legal experts but members of the NFRA
 having domain knowledge in finance and accounting. It was thus
 argued that no prejudice had been caused to the petitioners in this 77 (1973) 2 SCC 438 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 349 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 respect. 252. It was further submitted that NFRA had subsequent to the
 commencement of the proceedings impugned before us decided to
 permit auditors to be represented by lawyers before it. Notwithstanding
 the above, for the purposes of lending support to his submission with
 respect to a right to legal representation, Mr. Hossain relied upon the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Hyderabad Vanaspati Limited vs.
 A.P State Electricity Board 78 and to the following observations
 rendered therein:- The penal assessment, as we have stated already, is restricted
 to a limited period. Such an assessment was made after the
 Department itself was satisfied with regard to the theft of
 electricity committed by the consumer concerned. Hence, it
 cannot be said that the appeal provided under Condition No.
 34 is an illusory one." We agree with the above opinion. 43. The principle "nemo judex in causa sua" will not apply in this
 case as the officers have no personal lis with the consumers. As
 pointed out by learned Senior Counsel for the Board, they are similar
 to income tax or sales tax officials. There is nothing wrong in their
 adjudicating the matter especially when the consumers may be
 represented by an advocate and the formula for making provisional
 assessment is fixed in the clause itself. An argument has been
 advanced that the Board has recently deleted the provision enabling
 the consumer to be represented by a power-of-attorney agent. It is
 contended that the consumer is thereby deprived of the assistance of
 an expert which may be required in technical matters. We do not
 agree. When the consumer is represented by a lawyer, he can
 certainly get such assistance as may be needed from a technical
 expert. It is stated by the Board's learned counsel that the provision
 was deleted as there was frequent misuse of the same. Whatever may
 be the reason for deleting the provision, the existing part of the
 clause enables the consumer to be represented by an advocate. That
 is sufficient safeguard for the consumer." 253. From the recordal of submissions addressed by respective sides,
 it becomes apparent that the primary challenge under this head was of
 the NFRA not being bound to follow a fair and just procedure while
 conducting an enquiry. That submission rested on the perceived lack of
 due process contemplated in Rule 11 of the NFRA Rules when
 contrasted with the procedure which was liable to be adhered to in the
 case of an inquiry under the CA Act read along with the Misconduct
 Rules, 2007. It was this perceived and asserted distinction in the
 procedure prescribed which was sought to be highlighted by both the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 351 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 DHS and SRBC with the aid of the charts which have been referred to
 hereinabove. The petitioners had essentially referred to the provisions
 contained in Rules 14, 18 and 19 of the Misconduct Rules, 2007 to
 highlight the nature of rights which according to them CAs' and firms
 stand deprived of in the course of proceedings that may unfold before
 the NFRA. 254. In order to evaluate the soundness of that submission, it would be
 appropriate to advert to the Misconduct Rules, 2007. As is evident from
 Rule 7, the proceedings that may come to be initiated could have
 commenced upon the receipt of any written information containing
 allegations against a member or a firm. On receipt of such an
 application, the Director in terms of Rule 9 was obliged to examine the
 complaint, the written statements submitted by the CA or the firm as
 well as other additional particulars or documents in order to come to a
 prima facie conclusion of guilt in respect of the member or the firm. It
 was that prima facie opinion of the Director which would, in terms of
 the procedure prescribed, be thereafter transmitted to the Board of
 Discipline or the Disciplinary Committee. 255. It becomes pertinent to note that in terms of Rule 14(1), the
 Board of Discipline was statutorily enjoined to follow a summary
 disposal procedure while dealing with cases laid before it. It was
 required, by virtue of Rule 14(2), to supply a copy of the prima facie
 opinion formed by the Director as well as particulars and documents
 relied upon by that authority for the purposes of formation of that
 opinion to the arrayed respondent as well as the complainant. Since the
 complainant was envisaged to be a party to those proceedings, it was W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 352 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 also entitled to respond to any written statement that would have been
 submitted by a respondent in terms of Rule 14(5). The Board of
 Discipline was enjoined to consider the written representations, written
 statements, documents as well as oral submissions, if any made by the
 complainant as well as the respondent while arriving at a finding on
 whether the charge of professional or other misconduct was made out. 256. Similarly, and in terms of Rule 18, the Disciplinary Committee
 was cautioned to ensure that all proceedings undertaken by it were in
 accord with the principles of natural justice. This statutory command
 stands embodied in Rule 18(1). By virtue of Rule 18(2), the
 Disciplinary Committee is enjoined to provide a copy of the prima facie
 opinion of the Director together with documents relied upon by that
 authority to both the complainant and the respondent. The respondent
 as well as the complainant were thereafter entitled to submit their
 written statements and replies for the consideration of the Disciplinary
 Committee. Rule 18(9) then dealt with a contingency where the
 respondent was to deny the allegations of professional misconduct and
 on such a stand being struck, the Disciplinary Committee being obliged
 to fix a date for the examination of witnesses and for the production of
 documents. In terms of Rule 18(11), the Disciplinary Committee could
 take evidence as led before it as well as the statement of witnesses that
 may have been recorded in the course of such oral examination. The
 Proviso to Rule 18(11) gives an indication of the Disciplinary
 Committee also being obliged to permit cross-examination of witnesses
 whose testimony may have come to be recorded in the course of those
 proceedings. 257. According to the writ petitioners, it is some of these facets or the
 procedure which the Board of Discipline and the Disciplinary
 Committee were enjoined to follow which have been completely done
 away with in proceedings that may unfold before the NFRA. 258. As we view Rule 11 of the NFRA Rules, it becomes apparent
 that the statute clearly commands that authority to ensure that the
 disciplinary proceedings are undertaken in accordance with the
 principles of natural justice including where deemed necessary and
 appropriate by providing an opportunity of hearing to the charged entity
 in person. By virtue of Rule 11(5), the division of the NFRA is obliged
 to pass an order after considering all submissions made and taking into
 account the material on record as well as all other relevant facts and
 circumstances. The NFRA Rules, however, do not speak of or appear to
 envisage oral testimony being recorded in the course of proceedings
 that may ensue. 259. The reason for this is clearly not far to discern since the
 proceedings themselves would have been commenced based either on a
 suo motu decision taken by the NFRA or on receipt of a reference made
 to it either by the Union Government or any other competent authority.
 The NFRA thus commences proceedings not on the basis of a written
 complaint or at the behest of a complainant and which was a possibility
 envisaged under the CA Act and the Misconduct Rules, 2007. Even
 though the Union Government itself is enabled to make a reference to
 the NFRA to undertake an investigation, the said entity merely stands
 in the shoes of an informant or a body which provides material for the
 NFRA to investigate. The proceedings thus are clearly not adversarial W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 354 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 and which was a possible scenario under the Misconduct Rules 2007. 260. We further note that the NFRA itself initiates and undertakes the
 inquiry on the basis of the audit file and record which may have been
 gathered in the course of an audit quality review. Those proceedings are
 thus not triggered or based upon the oral testimony of a complainant or
 person. As is thus manifest from a reading of Rule 10, the investigative
 process would commence either with the NFRA receiving a reference
 or where it decides itself to undertake an investigation into any matter
 based on its review of audit and oversight functions. In terms of Rule
 10(1)(c), it could also initiate an investigation suo motu if it were for
 reasons recorded come to form a preliminary opinion that a matter
 pertaining to professional or other misconduct which comes to light
 merits an inquiry. Thus, the commencement of an inquiry by the NFRA
 is premised entirely on either a reference that may be made to it by the
 Union Government or where the said body were to initiate an
 investigation suo motu or in light of facts that may be gathered in the
 course of its supervisory role envisaged in Rules 7, 8 and 9. 261. In the absence of those proceedings being based on the version of
 an individual complaint or testimony, we fail to appreciate the
 submission that the denial of a right of cross-examination is liable to be
 viewed as a factor which renders the procedure prescribed under the
 NFRA Rules to be arbitrary. A right to cross examine could have been
 claimed provided the NFRA were to rely upon the oral testimony of an
 individual or such a statement constituting material that it took into
 consideration for the purposes of formation of an opinion to commence
 proceedings referrable to Section 132(4) of the Act. However, and on W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 355 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 facts, we find that none of the impugned SCNs' are based on a
 complaint of an individual or a statement made by a person. At least the
 petitioners have woefully failed to establish that such was the case. 262. The position which thus emerges from the record is of the SCNs'
 being prompted by the prima facie conclusions which were recorded
 and the AQRRs'. It is that material alone which constituted the basis for
 initiation of the action impugned before us. It was not the case of the
 petitioners that the disciplinary action was prompted by a complaint
 submitted by a person or based upon a statement that may have been
 recorded. In fact, the only testimony which appears to have been borne
 in consideration was the responses submitted by the writ petitioners as
 well as the statements of representatives, members and partners made
 and recorded. We thus find ourselves unable to appreciate the assertion
 of a right of cross examination which was vehemently canvassed before
 us. 263. We also bear in mind the undisputed fact of both Rules 14 and 18
 of the Misconduct Rules, 2007 themselves envisaging a summary
 procedure of disposal being adopted by the Board of Discipline and the
 Disciplinary Committee. Both those rules only placed those authorities
 under the over-arching obligation of ensuring that proceedings were
 undertaken in consonance with the principles of natural justice. It was
 in terms of Rule 18(9) alone that oral examination and recordal of
 testimony were contemplated. The aforesaid provision clearly appears
 to have been engrafted since the Disciplinary Committee would be
 considering a complaint made by an individual against a CA or a firm.
 Since the complainant could have introduced oral testimony in such W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 356 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 proceedings, the rules proceeded to incorporate a right of cross-
 examination. However, and undisputedly the NFRA rules do not
 contemplate oral testimony or evidence for the purposes of the
 investigation or inquiry that may be undertaken. 264. Regard must also be had to the well-settled precept of the
 principles of natural justice being essentially concerned with adherence
 to a fair procedure and the provision of an adequate opportunity to the
 charged person to contest the allegations leveled. Rules of natural
 justice, as has been repeatedly held, cannot be applied or viewed as
 operating as a straight jacketed formula. They are neither rigid nor are
 they liable to be viewed as inviolable conditions etched in stone. Way
 back in the decision of K.L. Tripathi vs. State Bank of India 79, the
 Supreme Court had pertinently held that a right of cross-examination
 would inevitably arise if the version or the statement of a person who
 has tendered testimony is sought to be disputed or challenged.
 However, their Lordships pertinently observed that absent such a
 situation, the right of cross-examination cannot be acknowledged to be
 a necessary ingredient of the principles of natural justice. We deem it
 apposite to extract the following passages from that decision:- 31. Wade in his Administrative Law, 5th Edn. at pp. 472-475 has
 observed that it is not possible to lay down rigid rules as to when the
 principles of natural justice are to apply: nor as to their scope and
 extent. Everything depends on the subject-matter, the application of
 principles of natural justice, resting as it does upon statutory
 implication, must always be in conformity with the scheme of the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 358 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Act and with the subject-matter of the case. In the application of the
 concept of fair play there must be real flexibility. There must also
 have been some real prejudice to the complainant; there is no such
 thing as a merely technical infringement of natural justice. The
 requirements of natural justice must depend on the facts and the
 circumstances of the case, the nature of the inquiry, the rules under
 which the tribunal is acting, the subject-matter to be dealt with, and
 so forth. 32. The basic concept is fair play in action administrative, judicial or
 quasi-judicial. The concept of fair play in action must depend upon
 the particular lis, if there be any, between the parties. If the
 credibility of a person who has testified or given some information is
 in doubt, or if the version or the statement of the person who has
 testified, is, in dispute, right of cross-examination must inevitablly
 form part of fair play in action but where there is no lis regarding the
 facts but certain explanation of the circumstances there is no
 requirement of cross-examination to be fulfilled to justify fair play in
 action. When on the question of facts there was no dispute, no real
 prejudice has been caused to a party aggrieved by an order, by
 absence of any formal opportunity of cross-examination per se does
 not invalidate or vitiate the decision arrived at fairly. This is more so
 when the party against whom an order has been passed does not
 dispute the facts and does not demand to test the veracity of the
 version or the credibility of the statement. 33. The party who does not want to controvert the veracity of the
 evidence from record or testimony gathered behind his back cannot
 expect to succeed in any subsequent demand that there was no
 opportunity of cross-examination specially when it was not asked for
 and there was no dispute about the veracity of the statements. Where
 there is no dispute as to the facts, or the weight to be attached on
 disputed facts but only an explanation of the acts, absence of
 opportunity to cross-examination does not create any prejudice in
 such cases. 34. The principles of natural justice will, therefore, depend upon the
 facts and circumstances of each particular case. We have set out
 hereinbefore the actual facts and circumstances of the case. The
 appellant was associated with the preliminary investigation that was
 conducted against him. He does not deny or dispute that.
 Information and materials undoubtedly were gathered not in his
 presence but whatever information was there and gathered namely,
 the versions of the persons, the particular entries which required
 examination were shown to him. He was conveyed the information
 given and his explanation was asked for. He participated in that
 investigation. He gave his explanation but he did not dispute any of
 the facts nor did he ask for any opportunity to call any evidence to W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 359 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 rebut these facts. He did ask for a personal hearing, as we have
 mentioned hereinbefore and he was given such opportunity of
 personal hearing. His explanations were duly recorded. He does not
 allege that his version has been improperly recorded nor did he
 question the veracity of the witnesses or the entries or the letters or
 documents shown to him upon which the charges were framed and
 upon which he was found guilty. Indeed it may be mentioned that he
 was really consulted at every stage of preliminary investigation upon
 which the charges were based and upon which proposed action
 against him has been taken. In that view of the matter, we are of the
 opinion, that it cannot be said that in conducting the enquiry or
 framing of the charges or arriving at the decision, the authorities
 concerned have acted in violation of the principles of natural justice
 merely because the evidence was not recorded in his presence or that
 the materials, the gist of which was communicated to him, were not
 gathered in his presence. As we have set out hereinbefore, indeed he
 had accepted the factual basis of the allegations. We have set out
 hereinbefore in extenso the portions where he had actually admitted
 the factual basis of these allegations against him, where he has not
 questioned the veracity of the witness of the facts or credibility of
 the witnesses or credibility of the entries on records. Indeed he has
 given explanation namely, he was overworked, he had consulted his
 superiors and sought their guidance, his conduct has not actually,
 according to him caused any financial risk or damage to the bank
 concerned. Therefore, in our opinion, in the manner in which the
 investigation was carried out as a result of which action has been
 taken against him cannot be condemned as bad being in violation of
 the principles of natural justice. Had he, however, denied any of the
 facts or had questioned the credibility of the persons who had given
 information against him, then different considerations would have
 applied and in those circumstances, refusal to give an opportunity to
 cross-examine the persons giving information against him or to lead
 evidence on his own part to rebut the facts would have been
 necessary and denial of such opportunity would have been fatal. But
 such is not the case here as we have mentioned hereinbefore." 265. In Transmission Corporation. of A.P. Ltd. vs. Sri Rama
 Krishna Rice Mill 80, a question arose as to whether the statement of
 officers that may come to form the basis for action that the Board may
 initiate was liable to be tested by providing a right of cross-examination
 to the consumer. Negating the assertion of such a right, the Supreme 80 (2006) 3 SCC 74 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 360 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Court held:- Therefore, the respondent had made a prayer before the Appellate
 Authority. The parameters of the principles of natural justice cannot
 be covered by any straitjacket formula. It would vary depending
 upon the circumstances involved. It is true that the Terms and
 Conditions of Supply did not contemplate anything like recording
 oral or documentary evidence in the way as is normally done in the
 courts of law. But clause 39.9.2 itself provides for a reasonable
 opportunity being granted. What would be a reasonable opportunity
 would also depend upon the fact situation. In Advanced Law
 Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar (3rd Edn., Vol. 4, pp. 3959 and
 3968) the word "reasonable" has been described as follows: You must have the particular facts of each case established before
 you can ascertain what is meant by reasonable under the
 circumstances--Lord Romilly,
 M.R., Labouchere v. Dawson [(1872) LR 13 Eq 322 : 25 LT 894] ." 7. In Khem Chand v. Union of India [1958 SCR 1080 : AIR 1958
 SC 300] a Constitution Bench of this Court explained the meaning
 of "reasonable opportunity" thus in the context of Article 311(2) of
 the Constitution of 1950 (in short "the Constitution") : (SCR pp.
 1096-97)
 "(a) an opportunity to deny his guilt and establish his innocence.... (b) an opportunity to defend himself by cross-examining the
 witnesses produced against him and by examining himself or any
 other witnesses in support of his defence; and finally (c) an opportunity to make his representation as to why the proposed
 punishment should not be inflicted on him...." 8. The nature of adjudication under clause 39.9.2 of the Terms and
 Conditions of Supply is somewhat different from an enquiry under Article 311(2) of the Constitution. It cannot be laid down as a rule of
 universal application that whenever the statement of the
 departmental officer is pressed into service for the purpose of
 adjudication, a right of cross-examination is inbuilt. On the other
 hand, what was said in Bakshi case [1966 Supp SCR 401 : AIR 1967
 SC 122] has also really no relevance because that was a case where
 no penal consequences were involved and the Commission was only
 a fact-finding Commission and, therefore, is clearly distinguishable
 of facts. 9. In order to establish that the cross-examination is necessary, the
 consumer has to make out a case for the same. Merely stating that
 the statement of an officer is being utilised for the purpose of
 adjudication would not be sufficient in all cases. If an application is
 made requesting for grant of an opportunity to cross-examine any
 official, the same has to be considered by the adjudicating authority
 who shall have to either grant the request or pass a reasoned order if
 he chooses to reject the application. In that event an adjudication
 being concluded, it shall be certainly open to the consumer to
 establish before the Appellate Authority as to how he has been
 prejudiced by the refusal to grant an opportunity to cross-examine
 any official. As has been rightly noted by the High Court in the
 impugned judgment where the reliance is only on accounts prepared
 by a person, cross-examination is not necessary. But where it is
 based on reports alleging tampering or pilferage, the fact situation
 may be different. Before asking for cross-examination the consumer
 may be granted an opportunity to look into the documents on which
 the adjudication is proposed. In that event, he will be in a position to
 know as to the author of which statement is necessary to be cross-
 examined. The applications for cross-examination are not to be filed
 in a routine manner and equally also not to be disposed of by an
 adjudicator in casual or routine manner. There has to be application
 of mind by him. Similarly, as noted above, the consumer has to
 show as to why cross-examination is necessary." Of significance is the observation rendered in Transmission
 Commission when their Lordships held that a right of cross-
 examination cannot be elevated to the status of a rule of universal
 application whenever the statement of a departmental officer is made
 the basis of an adjudication. It further held that even if a consumer were W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 363 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 denied the opportunity to cross-examine an official, it would still be
 incumbent upon it to prove and establish the prejudice that may have
 been caused. 266. Reverting then to the varied situations in which an investigation
 or an inquiry may be commenced by the NFRA, we fail to discern any
 possibility of oral testimony being made the basis for disciplinary
 action. In fact, it was the categorical and unequivocal stand of that body
 that any proceedings that it may initiate would stand confined to the
 audit record only. We thus fail to find any merit in the submission that
 the denial of a right to cross examine would result in the violation of
 the principles of natural justice. That right would in any event be liable
 to be claimed provided the action were based on the testimony and
 statement of an individual. The petitioners have failed to dislodge the
 stand of the NFRA that its action was founded solely on the audit
 record and the inferences and findings that formed part of the AQRR.
 The statements and material that it appears to have taken into
 consideration were only the responses submitted by the writ petitioners
 and the statements attributed to their members. The arguments
 addressed on this score are thus wholly unmerited. 267. We also bear in consideration the following succinct
 observations entered in Kanugo and Co. and where too the Supreme
 Court had negated a contention of a right of cross-examination being an
 inviolable principle of natural justice. The relevant extracts from
 Kanugo are reproduced hereinbelow:- 268. In Hyderabad Vanaspati the Supreme Court was called upon to
 consider the submission of a right of cross-examination in the context
 of energy theft. Negating that submission, the Supreme Court observed
 as follows:- The aforenoted observations are clearly apt and relevant in the context
 of the character of proceedings that may be undertaken by virtue of
 Section 132(4) and which are neither adversarial nor one which could
 be said to entail a resolution of a lis. 269. It is also pertinent to note that the mere usage of the word
 'summary' cannot lead one to presume that the procedure that the
 NFRA may ultimately adhere to, would be violative of the principles of
 natural justice. When Rule 11(5) uses the expression 'summary
 procedure' all that the rule-making authority perhaps intended to
 convey was that disciplinary proceedings would not be liable to be
 conducted in accordance with a procedure or rules of evidence which a
 court of law may be obliged to follow while trying a lis. In fact, that
 rule itself enjoins the authority to ensure adherence to the principles of
 natural justice. It also places it under the duty to provide an opportunity
 of hearing to a person in cases where circumstances may so warrant.
 The statute thus provides enough guidance for the authority to ensure
 that the disciplinary proceedings are conducted in a manner which is
 fair, transparent and in consonance with the broad, basic and
 fundamental principles of natural justice. 270. The proceedings in terms of Rule 11 are envisaged to commence
 with the issuance of a SCN and which as per Rule 11(2) must
 necessarily make available to the charged CA or firm a detail of the
 allegations that are laid together with the evidence in support thereof as
 well as an appropriate disclosure with respect to the provisions of the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 366 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Act, Rules or the SAs which are found to have been allegedly violated.
 Rule 11(2) further enjoins the SCN to broadly indicate the action that
 the NFRA proposes to take or the directions that it may be constrained
 to frame if the allegations were to be ultimately established. By virtue
 of Rule 11(3) the authority is also statutorily obliged to enclose all
 copies of documents relied upon as well as to make available the
 extracts of reports of investigation or other records which are proposed
 to be used for proving the allegation levelled. In terms of Rule 11(4) the
 SCN must be served upon the auditor as well as the firm dependent
 upon the action which the authority proposes to initiate. The statute
 thus adopts and incorporates appropriate measures and safeguards to
 ensure that the procedure that it adopts is in accord with the principles
 of fair play and natural justice. 271. We are also of the firm opinion that the proceedings which the
 NFRA would undertake are not liable to conform to the requirement of
 guilt being proved beyond reasonable doubt and which is a test which
 primarily applies to criminal trials. The proceedings under Section
 132(4) are essentially disciplinary proceedings and which are governed
 and guided by the well-accepted principle of the charge being liable to
 be proved on the basis of preponderance of probabilities. While dealing
 with the nature of the inquiry, which Section 21 of the CA Act
 envisaged, the Supreme Court in Mukesh Gang had upon an exhaustive
 review of the scheme of that statute observed as follows:- If, in a given case, it appears to the High Court that, on the facts
 alleged and proved, an alternative finding may be recorded, the High
 Court can as well send the case back to the Council with appropriate
 directions in this regard. The powers of the High Court, under Section
 21(3) , are undoubtedly wide enough to enable it to adopt any course
 which, in its opinion, will enable it to render justice to the parties. 24. In Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. L.K.
 Ratna (referred supra) the Apex Court discussed the scope of an
 enquiry in a reference under Section 21(5) of the Act, and held that it
 was apparent that, in the scheme incorporated in Section 21 of the
 Act, there were separate functionaries, the Disciplinary Committee,
 the Council and, in certain cases, the High Court. The controlling
 authority was the Council, which was only logical for the Council is
 the governing body of the Institute. When the Council receives
 information or a complaint alleging that a member of the Institute is
 guilty of misconduct, and it is prima facie of the opinion that there is
 substance in the allegations it refers the case to the Disciplinary
 Committee. The Disciplinary Committee plays a subordinate role. It
 conducts an inquiry into the allegations. Since the inquiry is into the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 368 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 allegations of misconduct by the member, it possesses the character of
 a quasi-judicial proceeding. The Disciplinary Committee, thereafter,
 submits a report of the result of the inquiry to the Council. The
 Disciplinary Committee is merely a Committee of the Institute, with
 its functions specifically limited by the provisions of the Act. As a
 subordinate body, it reports to the Council, the governing body. The
 report will contain a statement of the allegations, the defence entered
 by the member, a record of evidence and the conclusions upon that
 material. The conclusions are the conclusions of the Committee. They
 are only tentative. They cannot be regarded as 'findings'. The
 Disciplinary Committee is not vested by the Act with power to render
 any findings. It is the Council which is empowered to find whether the
 member is guilty of misconduct. Both Section 21(2) and Section 21(3) are clear as to that. If, on receipt of the report, the Council finds that
 the member is not guilty of misconduct, Section 21(2) requires it to
 record its finding accordingly, and to direct that the proceedings shall
 be filed or the complaint shall be dismissed. If, on the other hand, the
 Council finds that the member is guilty of misconduct, Section 21(3) requires it to record a finding accordingly, and thereafter to proceed in
 the manner laid down in the succeeding sub-sections. The finding by
 the Council is the determinative decision as to the guilt of the
 member, and because it is determinative, the Act requires it to be
 recorded. A responsibility as grave as the determination that a member
 is guilty of misconduct, and recording of that finding, has been
 specifically assigned by the Act to the governing body, the Council. It
 is also apparent that it is only upon a finding being recorded by the
 Council that the Act moves forward to the final stage of penalisation.
 The recording of the finding by the Council is the jurisdictional
 springboard for the penalty proceeding which follows. 25. At this point, it is necessary to advert to the nature of the power
 conferred on the Council. The Council is empowered to find a
 member guilty of misconduct. The penalty which follows is so harsh
 that it may result in the removal of a members name from the Register
 for several years which would deprive him of the right to a certificate
 of practice. As is clear from Section 6(1) of the Act, he cannot
 practice without such a certificate. In the circumstances there is every
 reason to presume in favour of an opportunity being given to the
 member of being heard by the Council before it proceeds to
 pronounce upon his guilt. As seen, the finding by the Council operates
 with finality in the proceeding, and it constitutes the foundation for
 the penalty imposed by the Council on him. The power to find and
 record whether a member is guilty of misconduct has been specifically
 entrusted by the Act to the entire Council itself and not to a few of its
 members who constitute the Disciplinary Committee. It is the
 character and complexion of the proceeding, considered in
 conjunction with the structure of power constituted by the Act, which W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 369 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 leads to the conclusion that the member is entitled to a hearing by the
 Council before it can find him guilty. 26. In Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. Price
 Waterhouse (referred supra) the Apex Court held that a combined
 reading of the relevant provisions in Section 21 and Regulation 16 did
 indicate that recording of a finding of guilt or non-guilt by the Council
 was mandatory to take further action or to dismiss the complaint or for
 further process. The Council was required to consider independently
 the explanation submitted by the member and the evidence adduced in
 the enquiry before the Disciplinary Committee, and the report of the
 Disciplinary Committee. It provided an in-built mechanism under
 which the Council itself was required to examine the case of the
 professional or other misconduct of a member of the Institute or
 associate member, taking the aid of the report submitted by the
 Disciplinary Committee, the evidence adduced before the Committee,
 and the explanation offered by the delinquent member. The entire
 material constitutes the record of the proceeding before the Council to
 reach a finding whether or not the delinquent member had committed
 professional or other misconduct. Otherwise, the primacy accorded to
 the report of the Disciplinary Committee would attain finality,
 denuding the Council of the power of discipline over the members of
 the Institute, and that would have a deleterious effect on the
 maintenance of discipline among the members or associate members
 of the Institute. xxxx xxxx xxxx 48. The phrase Quasi-criminal mean a lawsuit or equity proceeding
 that has some, but not all, of the qualities of a criminal prosecution. It
 may appear either in a Common law or a Civil law jurisdiction. It
 refers to a courts right to punish for actions or omissions as if they
 were criminal. The origins of the phrase comes from the Latin word,
 quasi, meaning somewhat, sort-of, alike or akin to criminal law, as in
 Quasi-contract. The word Quasi is used to indicate that one subject
 resembles another, with which it is compared, in certain
 characteristics, but there are intrinsic and material differences between
 them. During a civil or equity trial, a court may act as if it were a
 criminal case to punish a person for contempt of court. In some cases,
 a court may impose asset forfeiture or another penalty. For example, a
 court has the right to punish actions or omissions of a party in a child
 support case as if they were a criminal, penalizing the parent with a
 sentence of jail term. Quasi-criminal proceedings include a wide
 variety of matters, including prosecution for a violation of the law or
 ordinance, psychiatric matters, motor vehicle law, status offences,
 family court actions, and equity proceedings such as a Writ. 49. In criminal cases, generally, Courts try cases following the
 prescribed procedure, and impose punishment either of a sentence or a
 fine or both, but in disciplinary proceedings, more particularly under
 the Act, the punishment which may be imposed is not a jail term or
 fine like any other criminal proceeding. The punishment which may
 be imposed under Section 21 of the Act, if the respondent is found
 guilty of misconduct, cannot be equated to a sentence or a fine
 imposed on a person being found guilty in a criminal prosecution. The
 standard of proof required in criminal cases and civil cases also vary. 50. In S.A.L. Narayan Row v. Ishwarlal Bhagwandas the Supreme
 Court held that, generally speaking, a proceeding is a civil proceeding
 only if it relates to a civil right whether resting on common law or
 created by statute. The nature of the proceeding depends not upon the
 nature of the tribunal which is invested with the authority to grant
 relief, but upon the nature of the right violated, and the appropriate
 relief which may be claimed. A civil proceeding is, therefore, one in
 which a person seeks to enforce, by appropriate relief, the alleged
 infringement of his civil rights against another person or the State, and
 which if the claim is proved would result in the declaration, express or
 implied, of the right claimed and relief such as payment of debt,
 damages, compensation, delivery of specific property, enforcement of
 personal rights, determination of status etc. There is thus a marked
 difference between Civil Proceeding and Criminal Proceeding. 51. If the principles laid down in S.A.L. Narayan Row v. Ishwarlal
 Bhagwandas (referred supra) is applied to the facts of the present case,
 the proceedings before this Court, before the Council and Committee
 are not criminal proceedings, and the rules of evidence applicable to
 criminal cases cannot be applied to the disciplinary proceedings
 initiated against the respondent. xxxx xxxx xxxx 60. It is apparent from the above definitions that the Indian Evidence
 Act applies the same standard of proof in all civil cases. It makes no
 difference between cases in which charges of fraudulent or criminal
 character are made and cases in which such charges are not made. But
 this is not to say that the Court will not, while striking the balance of
 probability, keep in mind the presumption of honesty or innocence or
 the nature of the crime or fraud charged. In our opinion, Woodroffe,
 J., was wrong in insisting that such charges must be proved clearly
 and beyond reasonable doubt. 61. In view of the law laid down by the Constitution Bench of the
 Apex Court, in Gulabchand v. Kudilal (referred supra), and the
 Judgment of the Privy Council in A, a pleader v. The Judges of the
 High Court of Madras (referred supra), it must be held that the
 standard of proof required to establish a charge, in a disciplinary W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 371 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 proceedings, is on a preponderance of probabilities, and cannot be
 equated with the standard of proof in a criminal prosecution, wherein
 a charge is required to be proved beyond reasonable doubt.
 Accordingly, this point is decided. xxxx xxxx xxxx 114. The Chartered Accountant is a professional whose expertise in
 accountancy is acknowledged. He is a member of an expert body and
 of a premier institute in India. The certificate issued by an Auditor has
 its own impact on the public at large, as it is largely on the basis of
 this certificate that the general public subscribe to the shares of the
 company. Reckless certification by an Auditor, which has resulted in
 the public being misled into subscribing to the shares of the company
 in the public issue, would undoubtedly amount to gross negligence.
 Large sections of society rely on the certification by the Chartered
 Accountants for taking many vital decisions. It is imperative that
 utmost care and caution is exercised in issuing such certificates, and
 the objectivity, integrity, reliability and credibility of the information
 therein is ensured. Of late, several instances have come to light where,
 due to the erroneous/ambiguous advice tendered by Chartered
 Accountants, borrowal accounts have had to face quick mortality
 resulting in huge losses for banks and financial institutions. To ensure
 public faith and protect gullible small investors from being cheated of
 their life savings, the Institute should ensure that its members possess
 competence of a high order, their character is above board, and their
 integrity beyond reproach. Chartered Accountants are responsible to
 the public for their actions, as heavy reliance is placed on their
 credibility by the general public consisting of investors, banks,
 financial institutions, governments etc. The Chartered Accountants
 duty is not merely to his client, but extends to various segments of
 society, more particularly in the commercial field, on whose expertise,
 integrity and impartiality they rely on in taking various decisions. 115. Larger public interest would be served only if Chartered
 Accountants maintain high ethical standards apart from her standards
 of expertise in accountancy and related fields. In the rare instances
 where Auditors are found to lack integrity, objectivity, professional
 competence, and to have failed to exercise due care and caution in
 issuing certificates, larger public interest would be served only if they
 are sternly dealt with. The certificate issued by the auditor is, in this
 case, the basis for the general public subscribing to the shares of the
 company. The present case best illustrates how a false and misleading
 certification by the Auditors, has resulted in the general public being
 cheated into believing that the promoters of the company had invested
 Rs. 2.25 crores in its capital, before the public at large were invited to
 invest in the share capital of the company. xxxx xxxx xxxx 125. As seen from Clause (7) of Part I of Schedule II read with Section 21(5) and 22 of the Act, mere negligence by itself would not
 constitute misconduct, as the word negligence is prefixed with the
 word gross. What is gross negligence is a question required to be
 decided by us. 126. The Act does not define gross negligence, but it is defined in
 Black Law Dictionary as follows: 127. Negligence is gross if the precautions to be taken against harm
 are very simple, such as persons who are but poorly endowed with
 physical and mental capacities can easily take. H.L.A. Hart,
 Negligence, Mens Rea and Criminal Responsibility, in Punishment
 and Responsibility 136, 149 (1968). 128. Gross Negligence. As it originally appeared, this was very great
 negligence, or the want of even slight or scant care. It has been
 described as a failure to exercise even that care which a careless
 person would use. Several courts, however, dissatisfied with a term so
 nebulous. have construed gross negligence as requiring willful,
 wanton, or reckless misconduct, or such utter lack of all care as will
 be evidence thereof. But it is still true that most courts consider that
 gross negligence falls short of a reckless disregard of the
 consequences, and differs from ordinary negligence only in degree,
 and not in kind. 129. Similarly, in Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha Aiyar the word gross
 negligence is defined as follows: 130. Gross negligence, sometimes called wilful blindness is the same
 thing as negligence, with the additional of a vituperative epithet. 131. The term gross neglect means and involves a failure on the part
 of a person to take such reasonable precautions against the risk of an
 innocent person being deceived in the circumstances of the particular
 case. 132. Gross negligence means some culpable default, not arising
 merely from want of foresight or mistake of judgment. 133. Negligence marked by total or nearly total disregard for the
 rights of others and by total or nearly total indifference to the
 consequences of an act. 134. For an act of negligence to constitute gross negligence, it must be
 in reckless disregard of a legal duty and of the consequences to
 another party, or wilful or voluntary or wanton omission. Negligence
 is the failure to take reasonable care as an ordinary prudent man,
 depending upon the circumstances of the case, would take. xxxx xxxx xxxx 155. The Supreme Court also held that the Auditor holds a position of
 trust and it is his bounden duty to honour that trust by being candid
 with the shareholders, and telling them frankly and fully everything
 with regard to the affairs of the company which has come to his
 knowledge and which it is material for the shareholders to know; if an
 Auditor does not do what it is his duty to do, it is no defence for him
 to say in a disciplinary proceeding, started under the Chartered
 Accountants Act , that he had told the shareholders that he had not
 done it. The lapse is constituted by his failure to perform a duty
 without which an audit is meaningless and it is not excused by giving
 information of the omission to the share-holders. The reason is that
 the object of the Act is to ensure in public interest that those who
 practise the profession of Auditors shall perform, in their actual
 practice, at least the essential duties of an audit and shall bring to bear
 on their work attention to matters to which their duty requires them to
 pay attention, and the examination of accounts involves thorough and
 exhaustive testing of every account in the general ledger. If such
 negligence would cause no damage to anyone, such negligence cannot
 be termed as gross negligence within the definition of Section 22 of
 the Act. xxxx xxxx xxxx 178. The professional misconduct attributed to the respondent is grave
 and serious in nature which affects public confidence, and their faith
 in the integrity and impartiality of the Chartered Accountants and the
 Institute of which they are members. A false certification by the
 respondent has enabled the promoters of the company to squander
 public money, on inducing the general public to subscribe to the share
 capital of the company. Taking a lenient view, or exonerating such
 professionals, would encourage others to indulge in similar acts, and
 completely erode the faith of the general public in the impartiality and
 integrity of the members of the Institute, and bring the Institute itself
 into disrepute. 179. The Council of the Institute has recommended removal of the
 name of the respondent from the Register of the Institute for a period W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 374 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 of three (3) years i.e. suspending him from practicing as a Chartered
 Accountant for a period of three (3) years. The recommendation of the
 Institute, regarding the nature of the punishment, is not binding on this
 Court and, in exercise of the wide powers conferred on it by the Act,
 this Court can impose a different punishment. In a similar situation,
 the Division Bench of this Court, in Council of the Institute of
 Chartered Accountants of India v. V.I. Oommen (referred supra),
 imposed a higher punishment than the one recommended by the
 Institute. 180. In the light of the above discussion, after anxious consideration
 of the matter, we find it appropriate that the respondent herein should
 be suspended from practising as a Chartered Accountant for a period
 of three years from 01.11.2016 to 31.10.2019." 181. Accordingly, the referred case is disposed of directing the
 respondent's membership with the Institute of Chartered Accountants
 of India shall stand suspended from 01.11.2016 to 31.10.2019, and,
 consequently, during that period he shall not practice or function as a
 Chartered Accountant. There shall be no order for costs." 272. As is evident from a reading of the conclusions rendered in
 Mukesh Gang the Supreme Court had in unequivocal terms found that
 the rules of evidence which otherwise inform criminal trials cannot be
 imputed to or held to govern proceedings initiated under the CA Act . It
 was held that the standard of proof required to establish a charge in
 those proceedings cannot be equated to that which applies to a criminal
 prosecution. It would thus be wholly incorrect for the proceedings in
 question being held to necessarily be in conformity with proof of
 evidence and the standard of beyond reasonable doubt and which are
 principles concerned with criminal trials alone. 273. That then takes us to the assertion of the petitioners being
 deprived of an opportunity to effectively meet the charges levelled in
 light of the proceedings being restricted to the audit file. We in the
 preceding parts of this judgment had an occasion to notice some of the
 provisions contained in the SAs and which had repeatedly laid W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 375 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 emphasis on the audit file and record being comprehensive and
 incorporating all material which may have constituted the basis for the
 conclusions appearing in the audit report. Suffice it to state that the
 charge of professional misconduct which may come to be laid against a
 CA or a firm would have to be necessarily proved and established on
 the basis of that audit record alone. The restriction of the proceedings to
 the audit record thus binds not only the person charged with misconduct
 but the NFRA itself. 274. Of course that is not to state, that an auditor or a firm is
 precluded from referring to material or standards that may be sought to
 be referred to in order to lend credence or support to the conclusions
 contained in the audit report. However, since the charge is to be proved
 solely on the basis of the audit record and the reports of investigation
 and other records, we find no merit in the challenge to the procedure
 prescribed under the NFRA Rules when they restrict the inquiry to the
 audit file. 275. Yet another submission which was advanced in challenge to the
 procedure contemplated under the NFRA Rules was on the basis of a
 procedure distinct from the Misconduct Rules, 2007 being made
 applicable only to a particular class of auditors and firms. The
 submission was that since an investigation or inquiry by the NFRA
 would only be in respect of a class of companies, which are spoken of
 in Rule 3, the same would lead to a situation where only auditors of
 such companies would be subjected to disciplinary proceedings
 undertaken in accordance with the NFRA Rules. All other auditors and
 firms, according to the writ petitioners, would continue to be governed W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 376 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 by the CA Act and the Rules framed thereunder. 276. The aforenoted submission is clearly misconceived since it
 proceeds on the premise that the NFRA Rules are far more stringent
 and onerous when compared to the Misconduct Rules, 2007. However,
 we have already in the preceding parts of this judgment found that the
 aforesaid contention is clearly untenable. Both the Misconduct Rules,
 2007, as well as Rule 11(5) enjoin disciplinary proceedings to be
 conducted in accordance with the principles of natural justice and to
 follow a summary procedure of disposal. The Misconduct Rules, 2007
 speak of oral examination and testimony only since proceedings under
 those rules could commence on the basis of information supplied or
 submitted by a complainant or an individual against an auditor or a
 firm. It is only to cater to such contingencies that those rules
 incorporate provisions of oral testimony and cross-examination.
 However, and as was noted hereinabove, disciplinary proceedings
 commenced on the basis of Section 132(4) are not concerned with
 individual complaints or the testimony of persons. Those proceedings
 commence either upon a reference by the Union Government or on
 information that may be available with the NFRA or the opinion
 formed by it in the course of discharge of its various statutory
 functional obligations contemplated under Rules 8, 9 and 10 of the
 NFRA Rules. 277. As was noted in the prefatory parts of this decision, Section
 132(4) and the consequential rules framed to enable NFRA to discharge
 its functions, represent a policy decision taken by Parliament to bring
 the regulation of audits in tune with global practices. The statute thus W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 377 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 seeks to borrow from and adopt some of the best practices which
 inform the functioning of other regulatory bodies including the PCAOB
 and the FRC. The PCAOB is guided by the following Rules in the
 conduct of investigations:- Rule 5101. Commencement and Closure of Investigations (a) Commencement of Investigations

 (1) Order of Formal Investigation

 Upon the recommendation of the Director of Enforcement
 and Investigations or the Director of Registration and Inspections, or
 upon the Board's own initiative, or otherwise, the Board may issue
 an order of formal investigation when it appears that an act or
 practice, or omission to act, by a registered public accounting firm or
 any person associated with a registered public accounting firm may
 violate any provision of the Act, the Rules of the Board, the
 provisions of the securities laws relating to the preparation and
 issuance of audit reports and the obligations and liabilities of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 378 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 accountants with respect thereto, including the rules of the
 Commission issued under the Act, or professional standards. (2) Designation of Staff

 In an order of formal investigation, the Board may designate
 members, or groups of members, of the Board's staff to issue
 accounting board demands to, and otherwise require or request
 cooperation of, any person pursuant to Section 105(b)(2) of the Act,
 and the Board's Rules thereunder, to the extent the information
 sought is relevant to the matters described in the Board's order of
 investigation. (b) Closure of Investigations

 Upon the recommendation of the Director of Enforcement
 and Investigations, or on its own initiative, the Board may issue an
 order terminating or suspending, for a specified period of time, a
 formal investigation. Rule 5102. Testimony of Registered Public Accounting Firms
 and Associated Persons in Investigations (a) General

 The Board, and the staff of the Board designated in an order
 of formal investigation, may require the testimony of any registered
 public accounting firm or any person associated with a registered
 public accounting firm, with respect to any matter that the Board
 considers relevant or material to an investigation. (b) Accounting Board Demand for Testimony

 The Board, and the staff of the Board designated in an order
 of formal investigation, shall require testimony by serving an
 accounting board demand that - (1) gives reasonable notice of the time and place for the taking
 of testimony; (2) states the method or methods by which the testimony shall
 be recorded, which may be by sound or sound-and-visual, but shall
 include by stenographic means; and

 (3) if the person to be examined is a registered public accounting
 firm, a description with reasonable particularity of the matters on
 which examination is requested. Before testifying, every witness shall be required to declare that the
 witness will testify truthfully, by oath or affirmation administered in
 a form calculated to awaken the witness's conscience and impress
 the witness's mind with the duty to do so. (2) General

 Examinations shall be conducted before a reporter designated
 by the Board's staff. (3) Persons Permitted to be Present

 Persons permitted to be present at an examination pursuant to this
 Rule are limited to - (i) the person being examined and his or her counsel, subject to
 Rule 5109(b); (ii) any Board member or member of the staff of the Board; designated in the order of formal investigation, determine are
 appropriate to permit to be present; provided, however, that in no
 event shall a person other than the witness who has been or is
 reasonably likely to be examined in the investigation be present. (4) Examinations of Registered Public Accounting Firms

 A registered public accounting firm subject to an accounting
 board demand shall designate one or more individuals who consent
 to testify on its behalf, and shall set forth, for each individual
 designated, the matters on which the individual will testify. The
 individuals so designated shall testify as to matters known or
 reasonably available to the registered public accounting firm. (d) Transcript

 A witness shall have 15 days, or such longer period as the
 Director of Enforcement and Investigations may allow, after being
 notified by the reporter that the transcript, or, where applicable,
 video or other recording, is available in which to review the
 transcript or other recording and, if there are changes in form or W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 380 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 substance, to sign a statement reciting such changes and the reasons
 given by the witness for making them. The reporter shall make a
 certificate in writing to accompany the transcript, which shall
 indicate - (1) that the witness was duly sworn by the officer and that the
 transcript is a true record of the testimony given by the witness; and

 (2) whether the witness requested to review the transcript and, if
 so, that the reporter has appended any changes made by the witness
 during the period allowed. Rule 5105. Requests for Testimony or Production of Documents
 from Persons Not Associated With Registered Public Accounting
 Firms (a) Testimony
 The Board, and the staff of the Board designated in an order
 of formal investigation, may issue an accounting board request for
 the testimony of any person, including any client of a registered
 public accounting firm, that the Board considers relevant or material
 to an investigation. (1) Requests for Testimony
 An accounting board request for testimony pursuant to
 subparagraph (a) of this Rule shall - (i) give appropriate notice, subject to the needs of the
 investigation of the time and place for the taking of testimony; (ii) state the method or methods by which the testimony shall be
 recorded, which may be by sound or sound-and-visual, but shall
 include by stenographic means; and (iii) if the person to be examined is an issuer, broker, dealer,
 partnership, association, governmental agency, or other organized
 entity, provide a description with reasonable particularity of the
 matters on which examination is requested. (2) Conduct of Examination and Transcript
 An examination requested pursuant to this Rule shall be
 conducted consistent with Rules 5102(c) and a transcript shall be
 prepared consistent with Rule 5102(d). If the person to be examined
 is an issuer, broker, dealer, partnership, association, or governmental
 agency, the person to be examined shall designate one or more
 individuals who consent to testify on its behalf and shall set forth,
 for each individual designated, the matters on which the individual
 will testify. The individuals so designated shall testify as to matters
 known or reasonably available to the organization. (b) Documents
 The Board, and the staff of the Board designated in an order
 of formal investigation, may issue an accounting board request to
 any person, including any issuer, broker, or dealer for the production
 of any document that is relevant or material to an investigation, with
 appropriate notice, subject to the needs of the investigation. A
 request issued pursuant to this Rule shall set forth a reasonable time
 and place for production, subject to the needs of the investigation.
 Note: Failure to comply with an accounting board request pursuant
 to Rule 5105 may result in a Board request for the issuance of a
 Commission subpoena, pursuant to Rule 5111. Rule 5200. Commencement of Disciplinary Proceedings (a) Grounds for Commencement of Disciplinary Proceedings
 The Board may commence a disciplinary proceeding when - (1) it appears to the Board, as the result of an investigation
 or otherwise, that a hearing is warranted to determine whether a
 registered public accounting firm, or an associated person of such a
 firm, has engaged in any act or practice, or omitted to act, in
 violation of the Act, the Rules of the Board, the provisions of the
 securities laws relating to the preparation and issuance of audit
 reports and the obligations and liabilities of accountants with respect
 thereto, including the rules of the Commission issued under the Act,
 or professional standards; (2) it appears to the Board, as the result of an
 investigation or otherwise, that a hearing is warranted to determine
 whether a registered public accounting firm, or any person who is, or
 at the time of the alleged failure reasonably to supervise was, a
 supervisory person of such firm, has failed reasonably to supervise
 an associated person, either as required by the Rules of the Board
 relating to auditing or quality control standards, or otherwise, with a
 view to preventing violations of this Act, the Rules of the Board, the
 provisions of the securities laws relating to the preparation and
 issuance of audit reports and the obligations and liabilities of
 accountants with respect thereto, including the rules of the
 Commission under the Act, or professional standards, and that such
 associated person has committed a violation of the Act, or of any
 such rules, laws, or standards; (3) it appears to the Board that a hearing is warranted
 pursuant to Rule 5110. [Effective pursuant to SEC Release No. 34-49704, File No. PCAOB-
 2003-07 (May 14, 2004); and SEC Release No. 34-72087, File No.
 PCAOB-2013-03 (May 2, 2014)] (b) Presiding Official
 All proceedings shall be presided over by the Board or, if the
 Board orders, by a hearing officer. (c) Assignment of a Hearing Officer
 Subject to Rule 5200(b), as soon as practicable after the
 Board has issued an order instituting proceedings, or after a
 registration applicant has requested a hearing pursuant to Rule
 5500(b), the Secretary shall assign a hearing officer to preside over
 the proceeding and shall serve the parties with notice of the hearing
 officer's assignment. Subject to Rules 5402 and 5403, the hearing
 officer shall have the authority to do all things necessary and
 appropriate to discharge his or her duties. The powers of the hearing
 officer include, but are not limited to, the following - (1) obtaining a court reporter to administer oaths and
 affirmations; (2) issuing accounting board demands pursuant to Rule
 5424; (3) receiving relevant evidence and ruling upon the
 admission of evidence and offers of proof; (4) regulating the course of a proceeding and the conduct
 of the parties and their counsel; (5) holding prehearing and other conferences and
 requiring the attendance at any such conference of at least one
 representative of each party who has authority to negotiate
 concerning the resolution of issues in controversy; (6) recusing himself or herself upon motion made by a
 party or upon his or her own motion; (7) ordering, in his or her discretion, in a proceeding
 involving more than one respondent, that the interested division
 indicate, on the record, at least one day prior to the presentation of
 any evidence, each respondent against whom that evidence will be
 offered; (8) subject to any limitations set forth elsewhere in these
 Rules, considering and ruling upon all procedural and other motions; (9) preparing an initial decision as provided in Rule 5204;
 (10) upon notice to all parties, reopening any hearing prior
 to the filing of an initial decision therein, or, if no initial decision is W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 383 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 to be filed, prior to the time fixed for the filing of final briefs with
 the Board; (11) informing the parties as to the availability of one or
 more alternative means of dispute resolution, and encouraging the
 use of such methods; and
 (12) scheduling hearing dates, except that a hearing officer
 may not, absent the approval of the Board, change a hearing date set
 by Board order. (d) Separation of Functions
 The staff of the Division of Enforcement and Investigations
 may not participate or advise in the decision, or in Board review of
 the decision, in any proceeding in which the Division of
 Enforcement and Investigations is the interested division, except as a
 witness or counsel in the proceeding. Any other employee or agent
 of the Board engaged in the performance of investigative or
 prosecutorial functions for the Board in a proceeding may not, in
 that proceeding or one that is factually related, participate or advise
 in the decision, or in Board review of the decision, except as a
 witness or counsel in the proceeding. A hearing officer may not be
 responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of an
 employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or
 prosecuting functions for the Board. (e) Consolidation of Proceedings
 By order of the Board or a hearing officer, proceedings
 involving a common question of law or fact may be consolidated for
 hearing of any or all the matters at issue in such proceedings. The
 Board or the hearing officer may make such orders concerning the
 conduct of such proceedings as it deems appropriate to avoid
 unnecessary cost or delay. Consolidation shall not prejudice any
 rights under these Rules and shall not affect the right of any party to
 raise issues that could have been raised if consolidation had not
 occurred. For purposes of this Rule, no distinction is made between
 joinder and consolidation of proceedings." A consideration of the above would establish that the NFRA Rules are
 broadly in consonance with the above. The departure occurs only on
 account of oral testimony being excluded. DIVISIONS : SEPARATION OF FUNCTIONS 278. That takes us to the next segment of our decision and which W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 384 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 pertains to the contention that the NFRA failed to follow the statutory
 scheme itself and with a common complement of people authoring the
 AQRR which contained damning findings of guilt and the same body
 thereafter taking a decision to commence disciplinary proceedings. Our
 attention was firstly drawn to Section 132(1)(a) and which prescribes
 that the NFRA would perform its functions through such divisions as
 may be prescribed. The petitioners also invited our attention to Section
 132(3)(a) and which stipulates that each division of the NFRA would
 be presided over by its Chairperson or a full time member authorized
 by the former. The petitioners lay stress on the clear and distinct role
 which is assigned to the Executive Body on the other hand and whose
 composition is spelt out in Section 132(3)(b). 279. Proceeding then to the Rules, the petitioners alluded to Rule 2(g)
 and which defines that word to mean a division including one headed
 by a Chairperson or a full time member established for the purpose of
 organizing and carrying out its functions and duties. It was submitted
 that the broad division of functions amongst separate units of the NFRA
 is clearly evident from the statutory scheme underlying the NFRA
 Rules and which at more than one place speak of the "concerned
 division". 280. For instance, they referred to Rule 7(4) and which postulates that
 if the NFRA has reason to believe that any accounting standard has
 been violated, it may take a decision on the further course of
 investigation or action liable to be undertaken "through its concerned
 division". The petitioners underscore the fact that the dichotomy of
 functions which are envisaged to be performed by different divisions of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 385 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the NFRA stands replicated in Rule 8(8). The said Rule too enjoins the
 authority to chart a future course of investigation or enforcement
 "through its concerned division". Similar provisions are found in Rule
 10 and which entails the NFRA forwarding a particular case for
 investigation or a reference received by the Union Government or even
 where it were to suo moto decided to commence an investigation to a
 division dealing with enforcement. The aforesaid position again stands
 reiterated in Rule 11 and which in unequivocal terms provides that
 based on the findings of the NFRA in the course of discharge of its
 monitoring, enforcement or oversight functions, if sufficient cause were
 found to exist warranting action being taken under Section 132(4), the
 matter would be referred to the concerned division which shall
 thereafter dispose of the SCN proceedings. This is a position which also
 emerges from a reading of sub-rule (5) of Rule 11. 281. Reference in this respect was also made to Rules 14 and 18 of the
 Misconduct Rules, 2007 and which are extracted hereinbelow: - Explanation 1. − For the purpose of this rule, the appearance
 includes, unless and otherwise directed, appearance by an advocate
 or through any authorized representative, who may be a Chartered
 Accountant, Cost Accountant or Company Secretary. 1
 [Explanation 2 - For the purpose of this rule, the appearance also
 includes the appearance through video-conference, modalities for
 which may be as formulated by the Institute from time to time.]
 (7) On the date of hearing, if the respondent, in spite of the service
 of notice, under sub-rule (6), does not appear either in person 1 [or
 through video conference in terms of the modalities formulated
 under these Rules] or through his authorized representative, the
 Board of Discipline may proceed ex-parte and pass such orders as it
 may think fit or direct fresh notice to be served.
 (8) The Board of Discipline may, on such terms as it thinks fit, and
 at any stage of the proceedings, adjourn the hearing: Provided that
 such adjournment shall not be given more than once at any stage of
 the proceedings. (9) The Board of Discipline shall consider the written
 representations, including the written statements, rejoinder and
 supporting documents, and the oral submissions, if any made by the
 Director, the complainant and the respondent and arrive at a finding
 on whether the respondent is guilty or not of any professional or
 other misconduct. xxxx xxxx xxxx 18. Procedure to be followed by the Committee
 (1) The Committee shall be guided by the principles of natural
 justice and shall follow the procedure in dealing with all cases
 before it, as laid down in this Chapter. (2) If the Committee decides to proceed further under clause (b) of
 sub-rule (2) of rule 9 or if it receives a reference from Board of
 Discipline under clause (b) of sub-rule (3) of rule 9, it shall
 expeditiously cause to deliver to the respondent and the complainant,
 a copy each of the following, − (a) prima facie opinion formed by the Director, and (b) particulars or
 documents relied upon by the Director, if any, during the course of
 formulation of prima facie opinion. (3) The Committee shall inform the respondent, as the case may be
 to file a written statement, within such time as may be specified: [Explanation 1. - For the purpose of this rule, the appearance
 includes, unless and otherwise directed, appearance by an advocate
 or through any authorized representative, who may be a Chartered
 Accountant, Cost Accountant or Company Secretary. [Explanation 2. - For the purpose of this rule, the appearance also
 includes the appearances through video-conference, modalities for
 which may be as formulated by the Institute from time to time.]" 287. SRBC while advancing submissions similar to those canvassed
 by DHS had urged that it is manifest from the disclosures made by the 82 (1986) 4 SCC 537 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 391 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 respondent that all functions had been bundled into one singular body,
 namely the Executive Body. It was contended that since Section
 132(3)(b) clearly and specifically spells out the composition of the
 Executive Body, it would be wholly incorrect to equate it to a division
 and which is separately defined under the NFRA Rules quite apart from
 having been spoken of in the principal provision of the Act itself. The
 petitioners in this respect also sought to highlight the distinction and
 division of functions which are factored in and placed as salutary
 safeguards to guide proceedings taken by similar regulatory bodies
 including the PCAOB as well as the FRC. We propose to deal with
 some of those provisions and which regulate the functioning of those
 authorities in the latter parts of this decision. 288. It was thus contended that the overlapping of functions coupled
 with the admitted fact of a body of individuals having discharged a dual
 role and function despite the separation which is envisaged, gives rise
 to a reasonable apprehension of likelihood of bias. Our attention was in
 this context drawn to the decision of the US Supreme Court in
 Williams vs. Pennsylvania 83 and where the following illuminating
 passages appear:- Caperton, 556 U. S., at 881. Of particular relevance to the instant 83 579 U.S. ___ (2016) W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 392 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 case, the Court has determined that an unconstitutional potential for
 bias exists when the same person serves as both accuser and
 adjudicator in a case. See Murchison, 349 U. S., at 136-137. This
 objective risk of bias is reflected in the due process maxim that "no
 man can be a judge in his own case and no man is permitted to try
 cases where he has an interest in the outcome." Id., at 136.
 The due process guarantee that "no man can be a judge in his own
 case" would have little substance if it did not disqualify a former
 prosecutor from sitting in judgment of a prosecution in which he or
 she had made a critical decision. This conclusion follows from the
 Court's analysis in In re Murchison. That case involved a "one-man
 judge grand jury" proceeding, conducted pursuant to state law, in
 which the judge called witnesses to testify about suspected crimes.
 Id., at 134. During the course of the examinations, the judge became
 convinced that two witnesses were obstructing the proceeding. He
 charged one witness with perjury and then, a few weeks later, tried
 and convicted him in open court. The judge charged the other
 witness with contempt and, a few days later, tried and convicted him
 as well. This Court overturned the convictions on the ground that the
 judge's dual position as accuser and decisionmaker in the contempt
 trials violated due process: "Having been a part of [the accusatory]
 process a judge cannot be, in the very nature of things, wholly
 disinterested in the conviction or acquittal of those accused." Id., at 137. No attorney is more integral to the accusatory process than a
 prosecutor who participates in a major adversary decision. When a
 judge has served as an advocate for the State in the very case the
 court is now asked to adjudicate, a serious question arises as to
 whether the judge, even with the most diligent effort, could set aside
 any personal interest in the outcome. There is, furthermore, a risk
 that the judge "would be so psychologically wedded" to his or her
 previous position as a prosecutor that the judge "would consciously
 or unconsciously avoid the appearance of having erred or changed
 position." Withrow, 421 U. S., at 57. In addition, the judge's "own
 personal knowledge and impression" of the case, acquired through
 his or her role in the prosecution, may carry far more weight with the
 judge than the parties' arguments to the court. Murchison, supra, at
 138; see also Caperton, supra, at 881." 289. Yet another decision which was cited in this respect was that of
 the Supreme Court in Ranjit Thakur vs Union of India84 and which 84 (1987) 4 SCC 611 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 393 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 had explained the concept of bias in the following words:- (See Vassiliades v. Vassiliades [AIR 1945 PC 38 : 221 IC 603] 17. As to the tests of the likelihood of bias what is relevant is the
 reasonableness of the apprehension in that regard in the mind of the
 party. The proper approach for the Judge is not to look at his own
 mind and ask himself, however, honestly, "Am I biased?"; but to
 look at the mind of the party before him. 18. Lord Esher in Allinson v. General Council of Medical Education
 and Registration [(1894) 1 QB 750, 758-59] said: 19. In Metropolitan Properties Co. (F.G.C.) Ltd. v. Lannon [(1969)
 1 QB 577, 599] Lord Denning M.R. observed: 20. Frankfurter, J. in Public Utilities Commission of the District of
 Columbia v. Pollak [343 US 451, 466-67 : 96 L Ed 1068, 1079]
 said: 21. Referring to the proper test, Ackner, L.J. in Regina v. Liverpool
 City Justices, ex parte Topping [(1983) 1 WLR 119 : (1983) 1 All
 ER 490, 494] said: 22. Thus tested the conclusion becomes inescapable that, having
 regard to the antecedent events, the participation of Respondent 4 in
 the court-martial rendered the proceedings coram non-judice. xxxx xxxx xxxx 25. Judicial review generally speaking, is not directed against a
 decision, but is directed against the "decision-making process". The
 question of the choice and quantum of punishment is within the
 jurisdiction and discretion of the court-martial. But the sentence has
 to suit the offence and the offender. It should not be vindictive or
 unduly harsh. It should not be so disproportionate to the offence as
 to shock the conscience and amount in itself to conclusive evidence
 of bias. The doctrine of proportionality, as part of the concept of
 judicial review, would ensure that even on an aspect which is,
 otherwise, within the exclusive province of the court-martial, if the
 decision of the court even as to sentence is an outrageous defiance of
 logic, then the sentence would not be immune from correction.
 Irrationality and perversity are recognised grounds of judicial
 review. In Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil
 Service [(1984) 3 WLR 1174 (HL) : (1984) 3 All ER 935, 950] Lord
 Diplock said: 26. In Bhagat Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh [(1983) 2 SCC 442
 : 1983 SCC (L&S) 342 : AIR 1983 SC 454] this Court held: [SCC p.
 453, SCC (L&S) p. 353, para 15]
 "It is equally true that the penalty imposed must be
 commensurate with the gravity of the misconduct, and that any
 penalty disproportionate to the gravity of the misconduct
 would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution."
 The point to note, and emphasise is that all powers have legal limits. 27. In the present case the punishment is so strikingly
 disproportionate as to call for and justify interference. It cannot be
 allowed to remain uncorrected in judicial review." 290. Insofar as the facts are concerned, SRBC had additionally
 asserted that the proceedings which were undertaken and the hearings
 conducted were fatally flawed since the full complement of the
 authority was not even in place on the relevant dates. They have sought
 to highlight this aspect by drawing our attention to the following table
 in order to buttress their contention that at different stages of the
 impugned proceedings, the NFRA had not even been constituted in
 accordance with the Act. The table seeks to underscore the absence of
 the requisite number of full-time members who could have chaired and
 headed the committee which drew up the prima facie conclusions, the
 DAQRR, the AQRR and all of which ultimately culminated in the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 396 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 issuance of the impugned SCNs'. That chart is reproduced
 hereinbelow:- corporate or persons, in such manners
 may be prescribed into the matters of However, no communication in the above
 professional or other misconduct cases has been received by the Petitioners
 committed by any member or firm of from NFRA stating that NFRA initiated
 chartered accountants, registered under the said proceedings in suo moto exercise
 the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 " of its powers. [Page 33 of affidavit]

 Although the SCN in this case is based on
 the letter dated 11.05.2021 containing
 SEBI's findings, NFRA has neither cited
 suo moto initiation nor central government
 reference in this para of the affidavit and
 there has been no investigation conducted
 by NFRA in this matter. Therefore, the
 Affidavit gives no clarity about who
 initiated action under Section 132(4) in this
 case as directed by the order. 292. Refuting the aforesaid submissions, Mr. Hossain argued that as is
 manifest from a reading of Section 132(3)(b), the statute requires the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 401 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Executive Body to be involved in the monitoring, enforcement, inquiry
 and disciplinary proceedings that may be undertaken. It was his
 submission that quite apart from there being no challenge to that
 provision, the law recognizes no overarching principle which may
 postulate that enquiry and adjudicatory functions cannot be conferred
 on the same body. It was submitted that criminal legislation as well as
 various revenue laws incorporate innumerable instances where an
 assessing officer acts both as an investigator as well as the adjudicator.
 It was submitted that the division as defined in Rule 2(g) itself includes
 one which would be headed by the Chairperson or a full-time member.
 This, according to Mr. Hossain, is itself indicative of the statute
 contemplating divisions to be constituted only for the purposes of
 internal administrative convenience. 293. It was then submitted that neither the Act nor the NFRA Rules
 contemplate that the person who investigates or conducts an inquiry
 would be different from the one who takes a final decision. According
 to Mr. Hossain, this is evident when one bears in mind Rule 11 and
 which contemplates the same division issuing the Show Cause Notice
 and taking a final decision in terms of sub-rule (5) thereof. It was
 further argued that Rule 14 is yet another indicator of the statute
 contemplating the involvement of the Executive Body in all matters
 including those pertaining to disciplinary proceedings. Mr. Hossain
 submitted that while Rule 7 does allude to a concerned division, the
 reference to that authority would be occasioned only if the NFRA were
 to form an opinion that accounting standards had been violated. This, in
 any case, according to the learned counsel, would lead to action being W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 402 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 taken either under Rule 10(2) or disciplinary proceedings under Rule 11
 and thus it being evident that those Rules did not contemplate that the
 division which caused further investigation would be different from the
 one which issued the SCN. 294. Mr. Hossain also questioned the applicability of various
 precedents which had been cited on behalf of the writ petitioners and all
 of which pertained to service jurisprudence. It was submitted that
 unlike disciplinary authorities who may have an interest in the outcome
 of departmental inquiries, the Chairperson and Members of the NFRA
 are bound by the oath that they subscribe to in terms of Section 132(3)
 and are completely impartial while acting as constituents of the
 statutory authority. It was submitted that by virtue of the nature of the
 office held by the Chairperson and members, the possibility of bias is
 clearly ruled out. This according to learned counsel, quite apart from
 the fact that a review mechanism also stands put in place in the shape of
 an appeal being carried to a statutory tribunal which in turn is headed
 by a former Supreme Court Judge. 295. Reverting then to the provisions as they existed under the CA
 Act , it was Mr. Hossain's submission that the Board of Discipline as
 well as the Disciplinary Committee were not only conducting an
 inquiry but also imposing punishments. The Director Discipline, it was
 pointed out, was only obliged to examine a complaint and to form a
 prima facie opinion as to whether information provided was actionable
 or liable to be examined in greater detail. Mr. Hossain also questioned
 the reliance placed upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in L.K.
 Ratna and submitted that the CA Act itself came to be amended W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 403 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 thereafter and as a consequence of which an enquiry was to be
 conducted by the Disciplinary Committee and which in turn is
 empowered to pass a final order of punishment. This submission,
 however, has been noted mindful of the fact that neither Sections 21A nor 21B are yet to be brought into force. 296. Mr. Hossain then sought to sustain the procedure as adopted by
 referring to the doctrine of necessity. It was his submission that a mere
 overlap of investigative and adjudicative functions would not render a
 provision unconstitutional. In support of the aforesaid submission, Mr.
 Hossain firstly referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court in
 Election Commission of India vs. Subramaniam 85 and which had
 ultimately upheld the decision of the Election Commission by alluding
 to the doctrine of necessity. Yet another line of precedents which were
 cited by Mr. Hossain were those rendered in the context of income tax
 assessments and other revenue laws, including those in Anuj Chawla
 vs. Commissioner of Income Tax 86, Om Pal Singh vs. Union of
 India 87 and Union of India vs. Vipan Kumar Jain88 . These set of
 decisions have essentially held that there is nothing inherently
 unconstitutional in the Assessing Officer collating or gathering
 information and thereafter undertaking the assessment process itself.
 The relevant parts of the decision of the Supreme Court in Vipin Kumar
 Jain are reproduced hereinbelow:- 9. It is true that there may be cases where the outcome of the
 assessment may be influenced by the fact that the raiding assessing
 officer had himself in the course of the raid been witness to any
 incriminating material against the assessee. The assessing officer's
 decision on the basis of such material is not the final word in the
 matter. The assessment order is appealable under the provisions of
 the statute itself and ultimately by way of judicial review. 10. Finally, the courts cannot read in limitations to the jurisdiction
 conferred by statutes, in the absence of a challenge to the provision
 itself when the language of the Act clearly allows for an ostensible
 violation of the principles of natural justice including the principle
 that a person cannot be a judge in his own cause. In Union of
 India v. Tulsiram Patel [(1985) 3 SCC 398 : 1985 SCC (L&S) 672]
 in recognition of this principle this Court held: (SCC p. 479, para 101)
 "101. Not only, therefore, can the principles of natural
 justice be modified but in exceptional cases they can even be
 excluded. There are well-defined exceptions to the nemo judex
 in causa sua rule as also to the audi alteram partem rule.
 The nemo judex in causa sua rule is subject to the doctrine of
 necessity and yields to it as pointed out by this Court in J.
 Mohapatra & Co. v. State of Orissa [(1984) 4 SCC 103] ." xxxx xxxx xxxx 12. Ultimately, the question of bias will have to be decided on the
 facts of each case. If the assessee is able to establish that the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 405 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 assessing officer was in fact biased in the sense that he was involved
 or interested in his personal capacity in the outcome of the
 assessment or the procedure for assessment, no doubt, it would be a
 good ground for setting aside the assessment order. But to hold, as
 the High Court has that bias is established only because the
 authorised officer under Section 132 and the assessing officer are the
 same person is, in our view, an incorrect approach." 297. We, firstly and on facts find that it appears to be the conceded
 case of the NFRA that proceedings both at the stage of preparation of
 the SQARR as well as the AQRR were all undertaken by the Executive
 Body of the NFRA. This becomes evident from the disclosures which
 were made in the affidavit of compliance filed pursuant to our order of
 12 September 2023. For instance, in the matter of DHS, it is disclosed
 that the AQRR was prepared by the Executive Body of the NFRA
 assisted by a team consisting of the Secretary, an Executive Director
 and three Chartered Accountants. It is then disclosed that a draft AQRR
 note was initiated by the Secretary NFRA on 25 September 2019 and
 which was thereafter placed for the approval of the Executive Body.
 This was accorded by the Executive Body on the same date itself
 pursuant to which the draft DAQRR came to be issued to the
 engagement partner. 298. Similar was the process which appears to have been followed for
 the drawl of the AQRR which was approved by the Executive Body on
 11 December 2019. After the issuance of the AQRR, it is the same
 Executive Body which with the assistance of a team headed by a Chief
 General Manager examined the observations appearing therein and
 drew up a draft SCN proposed to be issued to DHS and its partners.
 This draft SCN prepared by the Executive Body was thereafter W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 406 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 approved by it and issued. 299. The NFRA followed a similar procedure in the case of Udayan
 Sen, Rukshad Daruvala and Shrenik Baid, petitioners in WP(C) No.
 1524 of 2020, WP(C) No. 1522 of 2020 and WP(C) No. 1525 of 2020
 respectively. Here again starting from the circulation of a prima facie
 conclusion leading upto the issuance of the AQRR by the Executive
 Body, the proceedings ultimately culminated in the issuance of a SCN.
 All that is additionally disclosed insofar as these writ petitioners are
 concerned is that post the issuance of the AQRR, the Executive Body
 with the assistance of a team working under a Chief General Manager
 who was not a part of the AQR team, examined the observations
 forming part of that report and prepared a draft SCN to be issued to the
 audit firm and its partners. It thus becomes apparent that it was the
 Executive Body which not only authored the AQRR, but it was the
 same body, albeit assisted by a supportive team, which then proceeded
 to form an opinion with respect to initiation of disciplinary proceedings
 and which in turn culminated in the issuance of the impugned SCNs. 300. As we view Section 132 of the Companies Act, there appears to
 be no doubt in our mind that the provision did and always contemplated
 the NFRA performing and discharging its functions through such
 divisions as may be constituted. While it is true that Rule 2(g), while
 defining the word 'division' includes one headed by a Chairperson or a
 full time Member, the Executive Body cannot possibly be construed to
 be a division in itself. A conjoint reading of sub-sections (3)(a) and
 (3)(b) appearing in Section 132 alongside the NFRA Rules, leads us to
 the irresistible conclusion that the statute clearly contemplated the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 407 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 discharge of functions enumerated in Rules 7 and 8 being undertaken
 by independent units or divisions of the NFRA. Mr. Hossain had
 submitted that by virtue of Section 132(3)(b) , the Act clearly
 contemplates the Executive Body to be the pivotal authority to
 discharge the various functions which it has to perform. This position,
 according to Mr. Hossain, is further fortified by Rule 2(g) when it
 includes within its ambit a part, component or unit of the authority
 which could be headed by the Chairperson or a full-time member. Mr.
 Hossain submitted that the only function which the NFRA acting as a
 body as a whole is liable to discharge is that specified in sub-section
 (2)(a) of Section 132. It was the contention of the respondents that
 since the power to undertake disciplinary action is one which is placed
 in sub-section (4) and which too stands reserved in favour of the
 Executive Body, the dual role, if it were to be so acknowledged as
 having been discharged, would not invalidate the proceedings
 impugned before us. 301. We find ourselves unable to concur with the aforenoted
 contentions of Mr. Hossain since and although the Executive Body of
 the NFRA does stand conferred a status of pre-eminence in the overall
 hierarchical structure of that authority, the same would clearly not lend
 credence or be liable to be countenanced as sanctioning a dual role
 being discharged by the same body or complement of people. This we
 hold since it is imperative that the proceedings be not only fair in fact,
 but also liable to be perceived from the standpoint of a reasonable
 person as being fair and compliant with Article 14 of the Constitution. 302. Acceptance of the position as canvassed on behalf of the NFRA W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 408 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 would essentially mean that the very body which had come to render
 findings of guilt and infraction of the SAs' would be expected to
 independently form an opinion as to whether circumstances warranted
 initiation of disciplinary action. There would in such a situation hardly
 be a possibility of the matter being independently and dispassionately
 reviewed or examined. As has been repeatedly held by courts,
 proceedings expected to be in consonance with the principles of natural
 justice, must not only qualify the test of fairness in fact, but be expected
 to appear to be impartial and untainted by bias. 303. While various decisions were cited by the respondents in this
 respect, we note that the petitioners while questioning the validity of
 the procedure ultimately adopted by the NFRA have not alleged
 institutional bias. The various judgments which were cited for our
 consideration by Mr. Hossain are clearly of little relevance and do not
 appear to be germane to the challenge which stands raised before us.
 While courts may accept a broad or loose overlap of investigative and
 adjudicatory functions being exercised by a singular authority, the
 aforenoted general precept would clearly not withstand the test of
 fairness when one of those bodies is expected to form an independent
 opinion of whether transgressions alleged to have been committed
 warrant further disciplinary measures being adopted. The judgments
 cited by Mr. Hossain and which pertained to the exercise of powers by
 authorities under the Income Tax Act is also misplaced since it is well
 settled that proceedings under a fiscal statute are neither akin to judicial
 proceedings nor are they concerned with an adjudication of a lis which
 may be said to exist between an assessee and the officer concerned. Those statutes by virtue of the inherent nature of the obligation that
 officers are enjoined to discharge contemplate those persons
 performing the dual function of investigation and assessment.
 Although this principle is by now well recognized, we deem it
 appropriate to take note of the succinct enunciation of the legal position
 in this respect which appears in Deepak Agro Foods vs. State of
 Rajasthan89 :- 304. That then takes us to review the constitutional requirements
 which we would expect administrative proceedings to adhere to. In Ratan Lal Sharma vs. Managing Committee 90, the Supreme Court,
 while broadly explaining the fundamental facets of natural justice, had
 this to say with respect to the principle of nemo debet esse judex in
 propria causa: - It has been observed by this Court in Union of India v. P.K.
 Roy [(1968) 2 SCR 186 : AIR 1968 SC 850 : (1970) 1 LLJ 633] : Similar view was also expressed in A.K. Kraipak case [(1969) 2
 SCC 262 : (1970) 1 SCR 457] . This Court observed: (SCC pp. 272-
 73, para 20)
 "... What particular rule of natural justice should apply to a
 given case must depend to a great extent on the facts and
 circumstances of that case, the framework of the law under
 which the enquiry is held and the constitution of the Tribunal
 or body of persons appointed for that purpose. Whenever a
 complaint is made before a court that some principle of natural
 justice had been contravened, the court has to decide whether
 the observance of that rule was necessary for a just decision on
 the facts of that case." Prof. Wade in his Administrative Law has succinctly summarised the
 principle of natural justice to the following effect: One of the cardinal principles of natural justice
 is nemo debet esse judex in propria causa (no man shall be a judge
 in his own cause). The deciding authority must be impartial and
 without bias. It has been held by this Court in Secretary to W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 411 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Government, Transport Department v. Munuswamy Mudaliar [1988
 Supp SCC 651] that a predisposition to decide for or against one
 party without proper regard to the true merits of the dispute is bias.
 Personal bias is one of the three major limbs of bias namely
 pecuniary bias, personal bias and official bias. A classic case of
 personal bias was revealed in the decision of this Court in State of
 U.P. v. Mohd. Nooh [1958 SCR 595 : AIR 1958 SC 86] . In the said
 case, a departmental inquiry was held against an employee. One of
 the witnesses against the employee turned hostile. The officer
 holding the inquiry then left the inquiry, gave evidence against the
 employee and thereafter resumed to complete the inquiry and passed
 the order of dismissal. This Court quashed the order of dismissal by
 holding inter alia that the rules of natural justice were grievously
 violated." 305. The principle of no man being a judge in its own cause was
 explained by the Supreme Court as mandating the deciding authority
 being one which was impartial and without bias. It also alluded to
 aspects such as a predisposition to decide for or against one party or
 where that authority may be inclined to disregard the true merits of the
 dispute by virtue of bias. Ratan Lal Sharma was a case where the
 delinquent employee in the course of disciplinary proceedings had
 assailed the participation of an individual who not only was a member
 of the enquiry committee but had also appeared as a witness to prove
 the charges that had been laid. Deprecating such a procedure, the
 Supreme Court pertinently observed: - Some of the observations which appear in para 12 of the report assume
 added significance in light of the Supreme Court holding that an
 illegality which taints administrative proceedings and leaves an
 "indelible stamp of infirmity" would not be salvaged merely because a
 review or an appeal avenue may have existed. 306. In explaining the rule of reasonable likelihood of bias, the
 Supreme Court in State of West Bengal vs. Shivananda Pathak91 observed :- [See also Griffith and Street, Principles of Administrative
 Law (1973 Edn.), p. 155; Judicial Review of Administrative
 Action by de Smith (1980 Edn.), p. 272; II Administrative Law
 Treatise by Davis (1958 Edn.), p. 130.] 30. These remarks imply a distinction between prejudging of facts
 specifically relating to a party, as against preconceptions or
 predispositions about general questions of law, policy or discretion.
 The implication is that though in the former case, a judge would
 disqualify himself, in the latter case, he may not. But this question
 does not arise here and is left as it is. 31. This Court has already, innumerable times, beginning with its
 classic decision in A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India [(1969) 2 SCC
 262 : AIR 1970 SC 150] laid down the need of "fair play" or "fair
 hearing" in quasi-judicial and administrative matters. The hearing 91 (1998) 5 SCC 513 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 416 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 has to be by a person sitting with an unbiased mind. To the same
 effect is the decision in S.P. Kapoor (Dr) v. State of H.P. [(1981) 4
 SCC 716 : 1982 SCC (L&S) 14 : AIR 1981 SC 2181] In an earlier
 decision in Mineral Development Ltd. v. State of Bihar [AIR 1960
 SC 468 : (1960) 2 MLJ (SC) 16] it was held that the Revenue
 Minister, who had cancelled the petitioner's licence or the lease of
 certain land, could not have taken part in the proceedings for
 cancellation of licence as there was political rivalry between the
 petitioner and the Minister, who had also filed a criminal case
 against the petitioner. This principle has also been applied in cases
 under labour laws or service laws, except where the cases were
 covered by the doctrine of necessity. In Financial Commr.
 (Taxation), Punjab v. Harbhajan Singh [(1996) 9 SCC 281] the
 Settlement Commissioner was held to be not competent to sit over
 his own earlier order passed as Settlement Officer under the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 . The maxim nemo debet esse judex in propria sua causa was
 invoked in Gurdip Singh v. State of Punjab [(1997) 10 SCC 641 : nevertheless, there must be a real likelihood of bias. Surmise or
 conjecture would not be enough. There must exist
 circumstances from which reasonable men would think it
 probable or likely that the inquiring officer will be prejudiced
 against the delinquent. The court will not inquire whether he
 was really prejudiced. If a reasonable man would think on the
 basis of the existing circumstances that he is likely to be
 prejudiced, that is sufficient to quash the decision [see per
 Lord Denning, M.R. in Metropolitan Properties Co. (F.G.C.)
 Ltd. v. Lannon [(1968) 3 WLR 694, 707 : (1969) 1 QB 577 : 29. Lord Thankerton however in Franklin v. Minister of Town and
 Country Planning [1948 AC 87 : (1947) 2 All ER 289 (HL)] had this
 to state: 30. Recently however, the English Courts have sounded a different
 note, though may not be substantial but the automatic
 disqualification theory rule stands to some extent diluted. The
 affirmation of this dilution however is dependent upon the facts and
 circumstances of the matter in issue. The House of Lords in the case
 of R. v. Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex p
 Pinochet Ugarte (No. 2) [(2000) 1 AC 119] observed: 31. Lord Brown-Wilkinson at p. 136 of the report stated: 32. Lord Hutton also in Pinochet case [(2000) 1 AC 119] observed: 33. Incidentally in Locabail [Locabail (U.K.) Ltd. v. Bayfield
 Properties Ltd. [2000 QB 451] ] the Court of Appeal upon a detail
 analysis of the oft-cited decision in R. v. Gough [1993 AC 646]
 together with the Dimes case[3 House of Lords Cases 759]
 , Pinochet case [(2000) 1 AC 119] , Australian High Court's decision
 in the case of J.R.L., ex p C.J.L., Re [(1986) 161 CLR 342 (Aus
 HC)] as also the Federal Court in Ebner, Re [(1999) 161 ALR 55]
 and on the decision of the Constitutional Court of South Africa
 in President of the Republic of South Africa v. South African Rugby
 Football Union [(1999) 4 SA 147] stated that it would be rather
 dangerous and futile to attempt to define or list the factors which
 may or may not give rise to a real danger of bias. The Court of
 Appeal continued to the effect that everything will depend upon
 facts which may include the nature of the issue to be decided. It
 further observed: 34. The Court of Appeal judgment in Locabail [2000 QB 451]
 though apparently as noticed above sounded a different note but in
 fact, in more occasions than one in the judgment itself, it has been
 clarified that conceptually the issue of bias ought to be decided on
 the facts and circumstances of the individual case -- a slight shift
 undoubtedly from the original thinking pertaining to the concept of
 bias to the effect that a mere apprehension of bias could otherwise be
 sufficient. 35. The test, therefore, is as to whether a mere apprehension of bias
 or there being a real danger of bias and it is on this score that the
 surrounding circumstances must and ought to be collated and
 necessary conclusion drawn therefrom -- in the event however the
 conclusion is otherwise inescapable that there is existing a real
 danger of bias, the administrative action cannot be sustained: If on W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 420 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the other hand, the allegations pertaining to bias is rather fanciful
 and otherwise to avoid a particular court, Tribunal or authority,
 question of declaring them to be unsustainable would not arise. The
 requirement is availability of positive and cogent evidence and it is
 in this context that we do record our concurrence with the view
 expressed by the Court of Appeal in Locabail case [2000 QB 451] ." 308. More recently, the Constitution Bench in Central Organization
 for Railway Electrification vs. ECI SPIC 93 after a review of
 precedents relating to bias rendered by courts across jurisdictions had
 held as follows:- The intrinsic function values natural justice as an end in itself. It
 values natural justice as an essential feature of fairness. In its
 instrumental element, natural justice is viewed as a means to
 achieving just outcomes. 77.⁠ ⁠The principle of nemo judex is based on the precept that justice
 should not only be done but manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to
 be done.145 The principle of nemo judex applies to judicial, quasi-
 judicial, and administrative proceedings.146 An adjudicator should
 be disinterested and unbiased.147 A bias is a predisposition to decide
 for or against one party, without proper regard to the true merits of
 the dispute. xxxx xxxx xxxx 124. The doctrine of bias as evolved in English and Indian law
 emphasizes independence and impartiality in the process of
 adjudication to inspire the confidence of the public in the
 adjudicatory processes. Although Section 12 deals with the quality
 of independence and impartiality inherent in the arbitrators, the 93 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3219 W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 421 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 provision's emphasis is to ensure an independent and impartial
 arbitral process." 309. The attributes of equal treatment and impartiality were
 highlighted by Chandrachud, C.J. (whose opinion constituted the
 majority) in the following words:- Union of India245 and Lombardi Engg Ltd. v. Uttarakhand Jal
 Vidyut Nigam Ltd . 132. In Voestalpine (supra) and CORE (supra), one of the parties
 curated a panel of arbitrators and mandated the other party to select
 their arbitrator from the panel. Since the curation of the list is
 exclusively undertaken by one party, the other party is effectively
 excluded from the process of curating the panel from which
 exclusively, the appointment of an arbitrator is to be made. The other
 party has to mandatorily select its arbitrator from a curated panel,
 restricting their freedom to appoint an arbitrator of their choice. This
 is against the principle of equal treatment contained under Section 18. In this situation, there is no effective counter-balance because
 both parties do not participate equally in the process of appointing
 arbitrators. The party curating the panel can restrict the choice of the
 party only to a person who is on the panel selected by the other party
 and to no other person. 133. Many PSUs are regularly involved in arbitration disputes and
 constantly need the services of arbitrators. Such institutions often
 maintain a pool of potential arbitrators with the sole object of having
 a ready pool of qualified professionals who have committed their
 time and consented to act as arbitrators for fixed fees. The
 Arbitration Act does not prohibit parties to an arbitration agreement
 from maintaining a curated panel of potential arbitrators. However,
 the problem arises when the PSUs make it mandatory for other
 parties to select their nominees from the curated panel of arbitrators.
 When a PSU exercises its discretion to curate a panel, the very factor
 that the PSU is choosing only a certain number of persons as
 potential arbitrators and not others will raise a reasonable doubt in
 the mind of a fair-minded person. The PSUs may conceivably have
 nominated a person on the panel of potential arbitrators because they
 have a certain predisposition in favour of the former. This doubt is
 reinforced when the other party is given no choice but to select its
 arbitrator from the curated panel." 310. As was succinctly explained by Chandrachud CJ, bias is a
 predisposition to decide for or against one party disregarding the true
 merits of the dispute. It was pertinently observed that a unilateral
 appointment impinges upon the right of the other party to equal
 participation and could give rise to serious doubts with respect to the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 423 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 impartiality of the tribunal itself. The view so expressed by the majority
 and relating to equal treatment finds resonance in the part penned by
 Hrishikesh Roy J. who penned a concurring opinion. 311. What thus emerges from the aforesaid discussion is that a body
 must not only be fair and impartial, but it should also not be burdened
 by a predisposition or a predetermined state of mind. This aspect
 assumes significance insofar as we are concerned in light of a common
 complement of persons having rendered findings of alleged
 professional misconduct and thereafter sitting upon that very opinion to
 consider commencement of disciplinary action. A person charged by
 such an authority could be reasonably said to apprehend a reasonable
 likelihood of the opinion so formed being tainted by the proscription of
 a reasonable likelihood of bias. It is these principles which weighed
 upon the Supreme Court in L.K. Ratna to hold that a person who may
 have been a party to the preparation of the result of the enquiry would
 be disqualified from participating in the deliberations of the Council. 312. In De. Smith's Judicial Review 94, the test of bias was lucidly
 explained in the following words:- 313. While commenting on whether an appeal could cure such a
 defect, the learned authors observe thus:- 314. The test which was propounded by the learned authors was that
 of the view that could be formed by a fair minded and informed
 observer and whether a real possibility of bias could have been
 legitimately inferred. It was further pertinently observed that a
 decision-making process which fails to satisfy the test of real possibility
 of bias is not saved merely because it is likely that a different decision W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 427 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 maker may have reached the same conclusion. The learned authors also
 expressed a doubt as to whether a subsequent fair hearing of appeal
 would cure proceedings which otherwise failed to meet the test of
 likelihood of bias. This reminds us of what our Supreme Court
 observed in Ratan Lal Sharma when they held that when the error or
 irregularity is "so patent and loudly obtrusive" it leaves "an indelible
 stamp of infirmity or vice which cannot be obliterated or cured on
 appeal or revision". The celebrated work also has the following
 elucidating passages on "predetermination" and which are relevant to
 the question which stands posed before us: - 315. We are in this respect also tempted to recall the theory of self-
 affirmation and lack of sensitivity to argument strength which is spoken
 of by psychologists. That theory proceeds on the premise that self-
 affirmation disables an individual to objectively evaluate information. It
 speaks of persons seeking to resist information that may conflict with
 an opinion harboured or a decision made. This, according to that
 theory, leads to a person being predisposed to affirm a view expressed
 or an opinion formed. 316. We are thus of the firm opinion that the bifurcation or division of
 functions which the statute envisaged could have neither been ignored
 nor disregarded. The underlying purpose of that separation of functions
 and roles was clearly intended to confer a real and discernible degree of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 429 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 impartiality and neutrality. The statute clearly envisaged separate and
 distinct branches of the NFRA discharging its functions of monitoring,
 oversight and adoption of disciplinary measures. But for the separation
 of those powers, one would be inevitably faced with the possibility of
 one branch discharging dual and overlapping roles. This clearly
 exposes the authority to the charge of a predilection to affirm, the
 tendency to shut out a challenge to an opinion already formed and
 disregard the weight of argument aimed at convincing one to review
 and reappreciate. It would thus be akin to what we in law term as the
 useless formality theory- an appeal from Caesar to Caesar's wife. This
 in addition to such a procedure clearly becoming susceptible to the
 possibility of a person reasonably and justifiably viewing the same as
 being unfair and violating the golden principle of justice not only being
 done but being visibly and perceivably served. 317. As is evident from the various disclosures which were made by
 the NFRA before us, it was the Executive Body which was involved
 and engaged at all stages of the drawl of the AQRR as well as the
 formation of the opinion that action in terms of Section 132(4) was
 liable to be initiated. The mere fact that in the course of this exercise, it
 was assisted by certain other officers is, in our considered opinion,
 wholly irrelevant, since the ultimate formation of opinion was one
 which was of the Executive Body as a whole. The petitioners could
 have thus reasonably harboured an apprehension of lack of neutrality
 and potential bias. 318. As in all such situations, it is not our intent to even remotely
 suggest that the Executive Body was in fact biased or prejudiced W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 430 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 against the writ petitioners. It ultimately boils down to the view or
 opinion that a reasonable person may form. While it is true that the
 reasonableness of apprehension cannot be based on an unfounded belief
 or tenuous reasoning, as long as it is an opinion which could be said to
 be reasonably drawn, the test of reasonable likelihood of bias would be
 satisfied. 319. We also find ourselves unable to sustain the argument of
 necessity and which was canvassed for our consideration by Mr.
 Hossain. The doctrine of necessity applies where it is impermissible or
 impossible for a modified composition of a statutory body being
 enabled to undertake the decision-making inquiry. In fact, and as we
 have found on a review of the statutory scheme, the Legislature as well
 as the rule making authority appears to have consciously made
 appropriate provisions for the monitoring of compliance of SAs,
 enforcement of compliance, oversight, investigation and disciplinary
 proceedings being undertaken by different arms of the NFRA. The
 division of functions which the principles of due process and fairness
 would demand clearly appear to inform the statutory provisions when
 they speak of divisions performing different functions and obligations
 that stand placed. 320. It is these fundamental constructs which also stand adopted by
 authorities such as the PCAOB and the FRC. The Byelaws which
 govern and regulate the functioning of the PCAOB incorporate the
 following significant provisions. As per those rules, disciplinary
 proceedings are to be undertaken by a Hearing Officer who must and
 necessarily be a person other than a board member or staff of the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 431 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 interested division. This becomes apparent from the manner in which
 those Rules define the phrase "hearing officer" in Rule 1001(h)(i):- 321. An interested division is defined by Rule 1000(i)(iv) as follows:- 322. Under Section 4 , the task of undertaking an inspection is
 entrusted to the Division of Registration. This flows from a reading of
 Rules 4000, 4001 and 4002 and which are extracted hereinbelow: - 323. The dichotomy of roles that may be discharged by separate W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 432 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 constituents of the PCAOB comes to the fore as we proceed to Section
 5 and which is concerned with investigations and adjudications. The
 said Chapter speaks of a Director of Enforcement and Investigation
 which may undertake an informal inquiry in the first instance. It is upon
 the recommendation of the Director that the Board then proceeds to
 draw a formal order for commencement of an investigation. This
 becomes apparent from a reading of Rules 5000 and 5101 which are
 reproduced hereinbelow: - 324. The subject of disciplinary proceedings is spelt out in Rule 5200
 and which reads as under: - [Effective pursuant to SEC Release No. 34-49704, File No. PCAOB-
 2003-07 (May 14, 2004); and SEC Release No. 34-72087, File No.
 PCAOB-2013-03 (May 2, 2014)] (b) Presiding Official
 All proceedings shall be presided over by the Board or, if the
 Board orders, by a hearing officer. (c) Assignment of a Hearing Officer
 Subject to Rule 5200(b), as soon as practicable after the
 Board has issued an order instituting proceedings, or after a W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 434 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 registration applicant has requested a hearing pursuant to Rule
 5500(b), the Secretary shall assign a hearing officer to preside over
 the proceeding and shall serve the parties with notice of the hearing
 officer's assignment. Subject to Rules 5402 and 5403, the hearing
 officer shall have the authority to do all things necessary and
 appropriate to discharge his or her duties. The powers of the hearing
 officer include, but are not limited to, the following -
 (1) obtaining a court reporter to administer oaths and affirmations;
 (2) issuing accounting board demands pursuant to Rule 5424;
 (3) receiving relevant evidence and ruling upon the admission of
 evidence and offers of proof; (4) regulating the course of a proceeding and the conduct of the
 parties and their counsel; (5) holding prehearing and other conferences and requiring the
 attendance at any such conference of at least one representative of
 each party who has authority to negotiate concerning the resolution
 of issues in controversy; (6) recusing himself or herself upon motion made by a party or
 upon his or her own motion; (7) ordering, in his or her discretion, in a proceeding involving more
 than one respondent, that the interested division indicate, on the
 record, at least one day prior to the presentation of any evidence,
 each respondent against whom that evidence will be offered;
 (8) subject to any limitations set forth elsewhere in these Rules,
 considering and ruling upon all procedural and other motions;
 (9) preparing an initial decision as provided in Rule 5204;
 (10) upon notice to all parties, reopening any hearing prior to the
 filing of an initial decision therein, or, if no initial decision is to be
 filed, prior to the time fixed for the filing of final briefs with the
 Board; (11) informing the parties as to the availability of one or more
 alternative means of dispute resolution, and encouraging the use of
 such methods; and
 (12) scheduling hearing dates, except that a hearing officer may
 not, absent the approval of the Board, change a hearing date set by
 Board order. (d) Separation of Functions
 The staff of the Division of Enforcement and Investigations
 may not participate or advise in the decision, or in Board review of
 the decision, in any proceeding in which the Division of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 435 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 Enforcement and Investigations is the interested division, except as a
 witness or counsel in the proceeding. Any other employee or agent
 of the Board engaged in the performance of investigative or
 prosecutorial functions for the Board in a proceeding may not, in
 that proceeding or one that is factually related, participate or advise
 in the decision, or in Board review of the decision, except as a
 witness or counsel in the proceeding. A hearing officer may not be
 responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of an
 employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or
 prosecuting functions for the Board. (e) Consolidation of Proceedings
 By order of the Board or a hearing officer, proceedings involving a
 common question of law or fact may be consolidated for hearing of
 any or all the matters at issue in such proceedings. The Board or the
 hearing officer may make such orders concerning the conduct of
 such proceedings as it deems appropriate to avoid unnecessary cost
 or delay. Consolidation shall not prejudice any rights under these
 Rules and shall not affect the right of any party to raise issues that
 could have been raised if consolidation had not occurred. For
 purposes of this Rule, no distinction is made between joinder and
 consolidation of proceedings." 325. Of significance is the statutory injunct of the staff of the Division
 of Enforcement and Investigation from having any participatory role at
 any stage of the proceedings that may be undertaken. Similar is the
 restraint which operates in respect of any other employee or agent of
 the Board who may have been engaged in the performance of
 investigative or prosecutorial functions at any prior stage of the
 proceedings that may have involved the auditor or the auditing firm. 326. A similar structure is followed by the FRC and which discharges
 its functions through an Executive Committee, the Audit and Risk
 Committee and the Conduct Committee amongst various others. As is
 apparent from a reading of the Terms of Reference 95 framed with
 respect to the Audit and Risk Committee, the said body is enjoined to 95 TOR W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 436 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 support and advise the Board by providing oversight of a company's
 financial reporting process, use of public funds, adherence to corporate
 government principles, audit process and internal controls. The TOR of
 the Conduct Committee exercises oversight over inquiries,
 investigations and enforcement functions that may be performed. The
 Enforcement Committee panel is enjoined to consider report submitted
 by audit quality review teams deciding whether a recognized auditor is
 liable to be sanctioned as well as considering representations that may
 be submitted in response to a notice proposing sanctions. The structure
 so put in place by the FRC too thus follows lines similar to those
 adopted by the PCAOB. 327. While we do not intend to suggest that the NFRA was obliged to
 punctiliously follow or adopt an identical structure, what we seek to
 highlight is that regulatory bodies appear to have universally
 formulated and attempted to adhere to a procedure which would meet
 the test of due process, of a fair opportunity being afforded to the
 person charged and above all justice appearing to have been truly
 served. These are surely not principles foreign to our jurisprudence.
 They are above all the command of Article 14 itself. The proceedings
 impugned before us, however, clearly falter and fall when tested on the
 aforenoted basic postulates. SCNS: THE SCAR OF PRE-DETERMINATION 328. As noticed above, it was the Executive Body which in the first
 instance came to record findings of guilt and violation of the SAs'.
 Those reports had come to conclude in no uncertain terms that the
 petitioners had violated the ethics standards required to be maintained W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 437 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 and having acted in violation of the SAs' which applied. That very
 body proceeded to take a decision to commence disciplinary action
 based not an independent review of the facts that obtained but solely on
 the strength of what had been found in the AQRR. The composition of
 the body which penned the AQRR and that which issued the SCN
 remained unaltered. The proceedings have thus come to be stigmatized
 beyond repair and cannot in law be salvaged or saved. 329. This facet of the challenge attains added significance in light of
 the nature of findings which we find came to be reflected in the AQRR.
 Some of those findings and observations as appearing in the AQRR of
 WP(C) 1065 of 2021 are extracted hereinbelow:- (b) There had been a complete lack of clarity, and utter confusion
 had prevailed, in the ROMM assessment; (c) Important aspects of the auditee company's situation, such as its
 SI-NBFC status, the very disturbing RBI Inspection Reports on the
 company, the wide discrepancies in reporting of NPAs, etc., had not
 been given adequate importance in the ROMM assessment; (d) Accordingly, the audit responses had been grossly inadequate; (e) Such procedures as had been performed have had no link to the
 real ROMM; (f) In crucial matters, the Audit Firm had relied completely on the
 management's representations; (g) The Audit Firm had totally failed in communicating to
 TCWG/the management the key issues arising out of the audit. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 2.3.6 NFRA had further examined aspects of the engagement that
 were directed/supervised/reviewed by CA Udayan Sen in his
 capacity as EP. Contrary to the statement made at document 5/page
 10 of the Audit Firm's response to the prima facie conclusions, WP
 No. 29702 (Manual) Closing Procedures Check list had not been
 initiated by CA Udayan Sen. CA Udayan Sen's initials were seen
 only in that part of the WP No. 29702 which is designated as the
 closing memorandum. This is in the form of a report sent by CA
 Shrenik Baid to CA Udayan Sen. This paper is a summary of the
 procedures adopted during the course of the audit. The very fact that
 CA Shrenik Baid had to send such a memorandum to CA Udayan
 Sen was itself proof that CA Udayan Sen had not participated in any W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 439 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 of the audit processes listed therein. This is for the reason that if CA
 Udayan Sen had indeed participated in the listed procedures etc., his
 presence there would have been automatically recorded and the need
 for such a closing procedures memorandum would not have arisen.
 No further evidence had been provided by the Audit Firm to counter
 the conclusions of the NFRA that CA Udayan Sen was not involved
 with almost all the important work of the audit engagement. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 2.3.18 The Audit Firm in their reply submits that IFIN classified its
 investment in RNEL as a long term investment, which, under AS 13,
 was measured at cost less any other than temporary diminution in
 value. The highest traded price of the shares of RNEL during FY
 2017-18 was Rs.70.65, and there were many days during FY 17-18
 where the closing traded price of shares of RNEL were more than
 the carrying value of the shares in the books of account of IFIN.
 Given such share prices and the general volatile nature of the RNEL
 share price, there certainly was no decline in value other than
 temporary as on 31st March, 2018. The Engagement Team
 documented important facts set forth in management's representation
 regarding the RNEL investment in WP 23150.01.05 including
 carrying cost and price movement, in the documentation of its
 testing reflected in WP 23150.01.01 "Investment In Equity and
 Preference Shares"- Refer Tab 'Valuation of listed shares'. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 2.4.2 The response of the Audit Firm was as follows: 2.6.5 It is seen that the option Agreement was executed sometime in
 December 2015. If the argument of the Audit Firm that the option
 had a value of around Rs.180 crores was to be accepted, there was
 no reason why this was not reflected in the Balance Sheets as of 31st
 March, 2016, or 2017. The fact that this option contract was brought
 into the books as of 31st March, 2018, only served to confirm the
 prima facie conclusion of the NFRA that this action was only a
 method used by the management to inflate the profit, and that the
 Audit Firm did not display the required professional skepticism and
 challenge the evidence produced by the management

 2.6.6 After considering all the above matters, NFRA concluded as
 follows in the DAQRR: 2.5.16 NFRA had analysed the details given in Annexure 4.5, and its
 conclusions were as follows: (b) There had been a complete lack of clarity, and utter confusion
 had prevailed, in the ROMM assessment; (c) Important aspects of the auditee company's situation, such as its
 SI-NBFC status, the very disturbing RBI Inspection Reports on the
 company, the wide discrepancies in reporting of NPAs, etc., had not
 been given adequate importance in the ROMM assessment; (d) Accordingly, the audit responses had been grossly inadequate; (e) Such procedures as had been performed have had no link to the
 real ROMM; (f) In crucial matters, the Audit Firm had relied completely on the
 management's representations; (g) The Audit Firm had totally failed in communicating to
 TCWG/the management the key issues arising out of the audit. 2.3.6 NFRA had further examined aspects of the engagement that
 were directed/supervised/reviewed by CA Udayan Sen in his
 capacity as EP. Contrary to the statement made at document 5/page
 10 of the Audit Firm's response to the prima facie conclusions, WP
 No. 29702 (Manual) Closing Procedures Check list had not been
 initialed by CA Udayan Sen. CA Udayan Sen's initials were seen
 only in that part of the WP No. 29702 which is designated as the
 closing memorandum. This is in the form of a report sent by CA
 Shrenik Baid to CA Udayan Sen. This paper is a summary of the
 procedures adopted during the course of the audit. The very fact that
 CA Shrenik Baid had to send such a memorandum to CA Udayan
 Sen was itself proof that CA Udayan Sen had not participated in any
 of the audit processes listed therein. This is for the reason that if CA
 Udayan Sen had indeed participated in the listed procedures etc., his
 presence there would have been automatically recorded and the need
 for such a closing procedures memorandum would not have arisen.
 No further evidence had been provided by the Audit Firm to counter
 the conclusions of the NFRA that CA Udayan Sen was not involved
 with almost all the important work of the audit engagement. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 2.4.2 The response of the Audit Firm was as follows: 2.6.5 It is seen that the option Agreement was executed sometime in
 December 2015. If the argument of the Audit Firm that the option
 had a value of around Rs.180 crores was to be accepted, there was
 no reason why this was not reflected in the Balance Sheets as of 31st
 March, 2016, or 2017. The fact that this option contract was brought
 into the books as of 31st March, 2018, only served to confirm the
 prima facie conclusion of the NFRA that this action was only a
 method used by the management to inflate the profit, and that the
 Audit Firm did not display the required professional skepticism and
 challenge the evidence produced by the management. 2.6.6 After considering all the above matters, NFRA concluded as
 follows in the DAQRR: 2.11.11 NFRA has considered the above contentions of the Audit
 Firm and its conclusion are as follows: 2.3.18 The Audit Firm in their reply submits that IFIN classified its
 investment in RNEL as a long term investment, which, under AS 13,
 was measured at cost less any other than temporary diminution in
 value. The highest traded price of the shares of RNEL during FY
 2017-18 was Rs.70.65, and there were many days during FY 17-18
 where the closing traded price of shares of RNEL were more than
 the carrying value of the shares in the books of account of IFIN.
 Given such share prices and the general volatile nature of the RNEL
 share price, there certainly was no decline in value other than
 temporary as on 31st March, 2018. The Engagement Team
 documented important facts set forth in management's representation
 regarding the RNEL investment in WP 23150.01.05 including
 carrying cost and price movement, in the documentation of its
 testing reflected in WP 23150.01.01 "Investment In Equity and
 Preference Shares"- Refer Tab 'V1luation of listed shares'. xxxx xxxx xxxx

 2.2.3 On consideration of all the above evidence, the NFRA had
 concluded in the DSAQRR that: 2.10.3 Thus NFRA reiterates its conclusions in the DSAQRR and
 concludes that: - connection (as contemplated by explanation (ii) to Sec 144) with
 EYG entities are clearly intended only to mislead and deceive. All
 entities in the EY network clearly hold themselves out as EY
 constituents. In summary, it is crystal clear that any entity providing
 any non-audit services under the EY brand name is to be regarded as
 providing the said non-audit services indirectly, as contemplated by
 the explanation to Section 144 of the Act. The separate legal
 structure of the entities providing the non-audit services does not
 exclude them from being considered as services provided
 "indirectly" for the purposes of explanation (ii) to Sec 144. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 2.19. Therefore, NFRA concludes that SRBC, EYLLP and EYMBS
 are covered under directly or indirectly related entities as per
 explanation (ii) to Sec 144 of the Act. Read with conclusions in
 section above, the non-audit services provided by these entities fall
 within the purview of the prohibited services, including management
 services, covered under section 144 of the Companies Act, 2013. xxxx xxxx xxxx W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 450 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 2.46. In view of the above observations, NFRA concludes that the
 EP and the EQCR Partner have been grossly negligent in complying
 with the requirements of Para 11 and Para 21 of SA 220. Para 11 of
 SA 220 stipulates that the EP shall obtain relevant information from
 the firm and, where applicable, network firms to identify and
 evaluate circumstances and relationships that create threats to
 independence. Para 21 of SA 220 requires that for audits of financial
 statements of the listed entities, the EQCR Partner shall consider the
 ET's evaluation of firm's independence in relation to the audit
 engagement
 2.47. Thus, subject to the above observations, NFRA reiterated its
 findings in the preliminary stage and concluded in the DAQRR that: iv. The Audit Firm had been in serious breach of the Code of Ethics.
 v. The violations had undoubtedly fatally compromised the
 independence in mind and independence in appearance required of
 the Audit Firm. Independence in appearance stood destroyed since
 no unbiased person could conclude, on an objective assessment of
 the circumstances, that there had been no abridgement of the
 auditor's independence. vi. EP and the EQCR Partner were guilty of professional misconduct
 arising out of gross violations of the applicable Auditing Standards. xxxx xxxx xxxx
 2.67. In view of the above, NFRA reiterates its observations in the
 DAQRR and concludes that: But one thing is clear that while reading a show-cause notice the
 person who is subject to it must get an impression that he will get an
 effective opportunity to rebut the allegations contained in the show-
 cause notice and prove his innocence. If on a reasonable reading of a
 show-cause notice a person of ordinary prudence gets the feeling
 that his reply to the show-cause notice will be an empty ceremony
 and he will merely knock his head against the impenetrable wall of
 prejudged opinion, such a show-cause notice does not commence a
 fair procedure especially when it is issued in a quasi-judicial
 proceeding under a statutory regulation which promises to give the
 person proceeded against a reasonable opportunity of defence. 32. Therefore, while issuing a show-cause notice, the authorities
 must take care to manifestly keep an open mind as they are to act
 fairly in adjudging the guilt or otherwise of the person proceeded
 against and specially when he has the power to take a punitive step
 against the person after giving him a show-cause notice. 33. The principle that justice must not only be done but it must
 eminently appear to be done as well is equally applicable to quasi-
 judicial proceeding if such a proceeding has to inspire confidence in
 the mind of those who are subject to it. xxxx xxxx xxxx 35. Going by the aforesaid test any man of ordinary prudence would
 come to a conclusion that in the instant case the alleged guilt of the
 appellant has been prejudged at the stage of show-cause notice
 itself." 333. We are thus of the firm opinion that the Executive Body could
 not have discharged the dual role of rendering findings of guilt and
 violation of the SAs' while authoring the SQARR/AQRR and thereafter
 don the mantle of the division which is contemplated under Rule 11.
 The assessment of whether circumstances warranted a disciplinary
 enquiry being initiated was statutorily liable to be undertaken by a unit
 of the NFRA separated from the one which drew up those reports. This W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 455 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 since, the Act and the Rules clearly contemplate a separation of
 functions between different constituents of the NFRA. Notwithstanding
 what may be observed in those reports, the law would contemplate and
 require a decision to initiate disciplinary action being arrived at
 impartially and independently. The procedure which NFRA chose to
 follow in these cases clearly lacked attributes of neutrality and a
 dispassionate appraisal. 334. The doctrine of necessity has also been found to be inapplicable
 since it was open for the NFRA to have constituted separate units
 which could have discharged the functions statutorily envisaged. Since
 the body of persons which penned the reports and took a decision to
 initiate proceedings under Rule 11 was one and the same, the procedure
 is found to be in clear violation of the reasonable likelihood of bias test.
 An informed observer would be justified in alleging predisposition,
 predetermination and an inclination to affirm against that body. We
 have also borne in consideration the damning and conclusive findings
 of guilt and infraction which came to form part of the AQRR and
 essentially shut the doors on an independent and impartial evaluation of
 the infractions which were alleged to have been committed. We are
 thus convinced that these facets have ineffaceably tainted the
 proceedings impugned before us. PERIPHERAL ISSUES 335. That only leaves us to examine the argument of invidious
 discrimination amongst members of a homogenous class and those
 falling within the ambit of Rule 3 being placed at a serious
 disadvantage in the sense of being deprived of the safeguards W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 456 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 incorporated in the CA Act and the Misconduct Rules, 2007. We find
 ourselves unable to accede to that submission bearing in mind the
 underlying policy objectives which imbue Section 132(4) and the
 classification of auditors on the basis of entities whose audit they may
 have conducted. As we view the class of entities which are placed
 within the scope of Rule 3, it becomes apparent that they are body
 corporates in which members of the general public would have a vital
 interest and financial exposure. The potential fallout of financial
 statements of such entities not being compliant with the statutory
 obligations which apply may have huge ramifications. It is these facets
 which appear to have constituted the basis of classification. It would
 therefore be wholly incorrect to assert that the classification is not
 based on a rational criteria or nexus aimed at subserving a larger public
 interest. We have, in any case, found that there is no fundamental
 difference between the procedure contemplated under the CA Act and
 the NFRA Rules if matter being tried be based not on a complaint but
 on an investigation initiated either by the authority itself or on a
 reference made. 336. The argument of deprivation of the right of legal representation
 pales into insignificance in light of the statement made on behalf of
 NFRA and when it was stated that it had undertaken a course correction
 and taken a principled decision to permit legal assistance to a charged
 auditor or auditing firm. STATEMENT OF CONCLUSIONS 337. For sake of convenience and ease of reference we deem it
 appropriate to summarise our principal conclusions which form part of W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 457 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 this judgment as under:- B. The Companies Act clearly contemplates a firm suffering a
 liability as a consequence of the action of its Engagement
 Partners and constituents who may be involved in the conduct of
 the audit. Thus, both the audit firm as well as its individual
 partners would be exposed to a statutory liability if Sections 139
 to 146 were found to have been violated. Therefore, the liability
 which is suffered by an audit firm by virtue of the actions of its
 partners engaged in an audit can neither be said to be abhorrent
 to the constitutional scheme nor violative of Article 14. It would
 be wholly impermissible for an audit firm to disavow or seek to
 distance itself from the actions of its members. C. This we hold bearing in mind the indubitable fact that members
 come to be engaged in the conduct of the audit solely on account
 of the firm being appointed as an auditor of a company. The
 appointment of those members is not an independent engagement
 for it is the firm, be it a partnership or an LLP, which comes to be
 designated as the auditor. The individual members of those firms
 discharge functions and carry out duties in accordance with the
 directives issued by the audit firm. D. This reasoning aligns closely with the principles of the organic
 theory which views the firm and its members as a single,
 inseparable unit for the purposes of legal and professional
 obligations. This indivisibility reflects the theory's premise that
 the firm and its members are one and their roles are
 interdependent and unified. Thus, the appointment of the firm as
 an auditor naturally encompasses the actions of its members. The
 engagement of members in the conduct of an audit is not an
 independent or isolated act but is inherently derivative of the
 firm's appointment as the auditor. The firm acts as the central
 organ, and its members function as its limbs, carrying out its
 obligations and responsibilities. The firm's designation as the
 auditor inherently extends to its members, who act on its behalf. E. To propose an arrangement where distinct spheres of liability
 operate independently for acts performed by a firm and for those
 same acts attracting liability on its partners is inherently flawed.
 Such a proposition assumes the existence of a framework in
 which the firm functions autonomously, separate from its W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 459 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 members or constituents, while delivering auditing services.
 However, this assumption disregards the very essence and the
 nature of auditing work, where such disengagement is not only
 impractical but also fundamentally incompatible with the
 professional obligations involved. F. Auditing, by its very nature, requires an unbroken chain of
 diligence, monitoring, and oversight. The service itself is deeply
 collaborative, demanding seamless integration of expertise and
 accountability between the firm and its partners. It necessitates
 meticulous scrutiny of financial data, adherence to regulatory
 frameworks and the exercise of professional judgment at every
 stage. These elements inherently bind the firm and its members
 inextricably together. To suggest otherwise would ignore the
 operational realities of such engagements, where the quality and
 integrity of the work are not divisible between the firm and the
 individuals performing the task. G. In essence, the relationship between a firm and its members
 while delivering auditing services is one of complete integration,
 where roles and responsibilities overlap to ensure the highest
 levels of professional service. The nature of such services does
 not permit a firm to distance itself from the actions of its
 partners, especially when those actions are performed in
 furtherance of the firm's obligations. We thus find no merit in the
 contention that Section 132 of the Companies Act is liable to be
 held as unconstitutional basis the audit firm or its individual
 partners and members becoming vicariously liable. H. We also hold that Section 132 is neither an overreach nor can it
 be said to be arbitrary; it is a necessary mechanism to enforce
 professional accountability. The firm's designation as an auditor
 inherently includes the collective responsibilities of its members,
 making the imposition of a vicarious liability a logical and
 justified extension of its statutory obligations. Therefore, the
 contention that the provision is unconstitutional lacks merit and
 proceeds in ignorance of the operational and legal realities of an
 audit firm's engagement. I. There cannot possibly be a cavil of doubt with respect to the
 well-established precept that statutes are generally presumed to
 be prospective in their operation. That presumption, undoubtedly,
 constitutes the starting point from which a court would embark
 upon its analysis. Equally well-settled is the principle of that
 presumption being dispelled only if a court were to find from the
 language of an enactment or a provision that the law maker
 intended otherwise. J. The word "vested" is explained by precedents as pertaining to
 rights which could be said to have become fixed, absolute and
 complete. Those rights would fall in the category of assertions
 and protections which could be claimed and not being contingent
 or subject to be defeated by a condition precedent. However,
 mere expectancy of future benefits and interests which may be
 contingent, or an anticipated continuance of existing laws would
 not constitute vested rights. K. Vested rights are those which would remain unimpacted by any
 future change in the legal position. Regard must be had to the
 fact that if the right hinges on an unsecured or contingent
 foundation, susceptible to modification by a change in the
 legislative scheme, then such a right was never truly vested, as it
 lacked the essential characteristics of being absolute, fixed, or
 immune to future alteration. L. A challenge to a statute on the ground of it being retrospective,
 however, is invariably and indelibly linked to how it impacts or
 infringes the rights of an individual or entity. The issue of
 retrospectivity thus becomes liable to be examined in the
 backdrop of how the enactment operates and affects the rights
 which inhere or may have come to be perfected prior to its
 promulgation. What we seek to emphasize is that the argument of
 retrospectivity cannot be evaluated in an abstract dimension.
 That submission has to be necessarily tested on what we find at
 the crossroads and intersection where the statute meets with the
 expanse of the bundle of rights which are asserted to exist. M. Tested on the aforesaid principles, we find ourselves unable to
 sustain the argument that Section 132 is liable to be struck down
 on the ground that it operates retrospectively and impacts rights
 which may have been perfected or completed. It becomes
 relevant to note that the Explanation to Section 132(4) in
 unambiguous and explicit terms provides that the expression
 "professional or other misconduct" would have the same
 meaning as assigned to that phrase by Section 22 of the CA Act. Section 132 therefore, does not create a new species of
 misconduct nor does it create a liability which was otherwise not
 contemplated under a pre-existing legislation. N. "Professional or other misconduct" already stood defined by Section 22 of the CA Act and thus all actions of CAs and auditors
 was liable to be tested on the basis thereof. It would thus be
 wholly incorrect to contend that Section 132 creates a new
 liability with respect to a misconduct or misdemeanor committed
 prior to October 2018. O. No auditor can possibly claim or assert a vested right coming to
 be created in respect of professional misconduct that may have
 been committed prior to Section 132 coming into force. We find
 ourselves unable to comprehend any right leave alone a vested
 right that could have been claimed to have come into existence in
 respect of professional conduct which would have fallen within
 the scope of Section 22 of the CA Act prior to the introduction of
 Section 132. P. As was pertinently observed by the Supreme Court, a statute is
 not liable to be viewed as having retroactive operation merely
 because it draws upon an event or act which preceded its
 promulgation. Acts of misconduct committed prior to October
 2018 were neither accorded nor conferred a shield of immunity.
 Section 132 does not create a new disqualification or create a
 novel set or category of misdemeanors to constitute professional
 or other misconduct. The conduct of an audit, an individual or a
 firm remains liable to be enquired into based on the obligations W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 463 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 and duties which held the field even prior to the introduction of
 Section 132. The conduct of an audit would continue to be
 examined and evaluated based on those legal obligations and set
 of rules which existed earlier. Q. A consideration of the legislative history preceding the
 introduction of Section 132 clearly suggests that a pre-existing
 regulatory deficiency or gap was sought to be addressed through
 the introduction of Section 132 aligning with the broader
 objective of strengthening oversight mechanisms and enhancing
 the quality of professional services rendered by audit firms. This
 measure was implemented not to create new liabilities but to
 bridge an existing gap in enforcement, ensuring that standards of
 professional conduct and accountability evolve in tandem with
 global best practices. R. The enactment of Section 132 thus represents a progressive
 regulatory shift, aimed at reinforcing compliance, raising the bar
 for audit quality, and ensuring that no aspect of professional
 misconduct or deficiency in service remains unchecked or
 unsupervised. By instituting a more structured and stringent
 framework, Section 132 ensures that audit firms and
 professionals adhere to internationally recognized standards,
 thereby fostering greater transparency, accountability, and
 confidence in financial reporting. S. This regulatory evolution does not operate retrospectively in a
 punitive sense but rather brings India's auditing and financial
 oversight framework in line with global standards, ensuring that W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 464 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 all professional conduct meets the highest levels of scrutiny and
 quality assurance. The underlying objective is to create a more
 robust and reliable regulatory ecosystem, where professional
 standards are continuously refined to prevent any compromise in
 audit quality or integrity. T. The precedents rendered in the context of Article 20(1) clearly
 appear to exclude civil liabilities or penalties that may come to be
 imposed from the ambit of that constitutional prohibition. The
 scope of Article 20(1) has thus been consistently explained to be
 confined to crimes and punishments as generally understood. An
 act of professional misconduct was liable to be penalised and
 punishment meted out as per a law which existed decades prior to
 the insertion of Section 132 in the Companies Act . Section 132,
 as noticed hereinabove, merely adopts the meaning assigned to
 misconduct by the CA Act for the purposes of proceedings that
 may be initiated thereunder. The argument based on Article
 20(1) is thus liable to be rejected on this score alone. U. As we view Rule 11 of the NFRA Rules, it becomes apparent that
 the statute clearly commands that authority to ensure that the
 disciplinary proceedings are undertaken in accordance with the
 principles of natural justice including where deemed necessary
 and appropriate providing an opportunity of hearing to the
 charged entity in person. The reason for not prescribing for oral
 testimony as a matter of rule or practice is evident from the fact
 that the proceedings themselves would have been commenced
 based either on a suo motu decision taken by the NFRA or on W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 465 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 receipt of a reference made to it either by the Union Government
 or any other competent authority. V. The NFRA thus commences proceedings not on the basis of a
 written complaint or at the behest of a complainant and which
 was a possibility envisaged under the CA Act and the Misconduct
 Rules, 2007. Even though the Union Government itself is
 enabled to make a reference to the NFRA to undertake an
 investigation, the said entity stands merely in the shoes of an
 informant or a body which provides material for the NFRA to
 investigate. The proceedings are thus clearly not adversarial and
 which was a possible scenario under the Misconduct Rules 2007. W. The NFRA itself initiates and undertakes the inquiry on the basis
 of the audit file and record which may have been gathered in the
 course of an audit quality review. Those proceedings are thus not
 triggered or based upon the oral testimony of a complainant or
 person. Thus, the commencement of an inquiry by the NFRA is
 premised entirely on either a reference that may be made to it by
 the Union Government or where the said body were to initiate an
 investigation suo motu or in light of facts that may be gathered in
 the course of its supervisory role envisaged in Rules 7, 8 and 9. X. In the absence of those proceedings being based on the version of
 an individual complaint or testimony, we fail to appreciate the
 submission that the denial of a right of cross-examination is
 liable to be viewed as a factor which renders the procedure
 prescribed under the NFRA Rules to be arbitrary. Y. The mere usage of the word 'summary' cannot lead one to
 presume that the procedure that the NFRA may ultimately adhere
 to, would be violative of the principles of natural justice. When
 Rule 11(5) uses the expression 'summary procedure' all that the
 rule-making authority perhaps intended to convey was that
 disciplinary proceedings would not be liable to be conducted in
 accordance with a procedure or rules of evidence which a court
 of law may be obliged to follow while trying a lis. In fact, that
 rule itself enjoins the authority to ensure adherence to the
 principles of natural justice. It also places it under the duty to
 provide an opportunity of hearing to a person in cases where
 circumstances may so warrant. The statute thus provides enough
 guidance for the authority to ensure that the disciplinary
 proceedings are conducted in a manner which is fair, transparent
 and in consonance with the broad, basic and fundamental
 principles of natural justice. Z. The NFRA Rules oblige the authority to make available to the
 charged CA or firm a detail of the allegations that are laid
 together with the evidence in support thereof as well as an
 appropriate disclosure with respect to the provisions of the Act,
 Rules or the SAs which are found to have been allegedly
 violated. It enjoins the SCN to broadly indicate the action that
 NFRA proposes to take or the directions that it may be
 constrained to frame if the allegations were to be ultimately
 established. The authority is also statutorily obliged to enclose all
 copies of documents relied upon as well as to make available the W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 467 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 extracts of reports of investigation or other records which are
 proposed to used for proving the allegation levelled. The SCN
 must be served upon the auditor as well as the firm dependent
 upon the action which the authority proposes to initiate. The
 statute thus adopts and incorporates appropriate measures and
 safeguards to ensure that the procedure that it adopts is in accord
 with the principles of fair play and natural justice. AA. We are also of the firm opinion that the proceedings which the
 NFRA would undertake are not liable to conform to the
 requirement of guilt being proved beyond reasonable doubt and
 which is a test which primarily applies to criminal trials. The
 proceedings under Section 132(4) are essentially disciplinary
 proceedings and which are governed and guided by the well-
 accepted principle of the charge being liable to be proved on the
 basis of preponderance of probabilities. BB. The argument of the restriction of proceedings to the audit file
 being arbitrary is misconceived. The provisions contained in the
 SAs' have repeatedly laid emphasis on the audit file and record
 being comprehensive and incorporating all material which may
 have formed the basis for the conclusions appearing in the audit
 report. Suffice it to state that the charge of professional
 misconduct which may come to be laid against a CA or a firm
 would have to be necessarily proved and established on the basis
 of that audit record alone. The restriction of the proceedings to
 the audit record thus binds not only the person charged with
 misconduct but the NFRA itself. CC. Of course that is not to state, that an auditor or a firm is
 precluded from referring to material or standards that may be
 sought to be referred to in order to lend credence or support to
 the conclusions contained in the audit report. However, since the
 charge is to be proved solely on the basis of the audit record, the
 reports of investigation and other records, we find no merit in the
 challenge to the procedure prescribed under the NFRA Rules
 when they restrict the inquiry to the audit file. DD. As we view Section 132 of the Companies Act, there appears to
 be no doubt in our mind that the provision did and always
 contemplated the NFRA performing and discharging its
 functions through such divisions as may be constituted. While it
 is true that Rule 2(g), while defining the word 'division' includes
 one headed by a Chairperson or a full time Member, the
 Executive Body cannot possibly be construed to be a division in
 itself. A conjoint reading of sub-sections (3)(a) and (3)(b)
 appearing in Section 132 alongside the NFRA Rules, leads us to
 the irresistible conclusion that the statute clearly contemplated
 the discharge of functions enumerated in Rules 7 and 8 being
 undertaken by independent units or divisions of the NFRA. EE. A body must not only be fair and impartial, but it should also not
 be burdened by a predisposition or a predetermined state of mind.
 This aspect assumes significance insofar as we are concerned in
 light of a common complement of persons having rendered
 findings of alleged professional misconduct and thereafter sitting W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 469 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 upon that very opinion to consider commencement of disciplinary
 action. FF. A person charged by such an authority could be reasonably said to
 apprehend a reasonable likelihood of the opinion so formed being
 tainted by the proscription of a reasonable likelihood of bias. It is
 these principles which weighed upon the Supreme Court in L.K.
 Ratna to hold that a person who may have been a party to the
 preparation of the result of the enquiry would be disqualified from
 participating in the deliberations of the Council. GG. We are in such situations primarily concerned with the view that
 could be formed by a fair minded and informed observer and
 whether a real possibility of bias could have been legitimately
 inferred. As has been pertinently observed, a decision-making
 process which fails to satisfy the test of real possibility of bias is
 not saved merely because it is likely that a different decision
 maker may have reached the same conclusion. HH. We also doubt the soundness of the proposition that a subsequent
 fair hearing or appeal would cure proceedings which otherwise
 failed to meet the test of likelihood of bias or that the said
 statement could be accepted as an inviolable rule. We are
 reminded of what our Supreme Court observed in Ratan Lal
 Sharma when they held that when the error or irregularity is "so
 patent and loudly obtrusive" it leaves "an indelible stamp of
 infirmity or vice which cannot be obliterated or cured on appeal
 or revision". II. We are thus of the firm opinion that the bifurcation or division of
 functions which the statute envisaged could have neither been
 ignored nor disregarded. The underlying purpose of that
 separation of functions and roles was clearly intended to confer a
 real and discernible degree of impartiality and neutrality. The
 statute clearly envisaged separate and distinct branches of the
 NFRA discharging its functions of monitoring, oversight and
 adoption of disciplinary measures. But for the separation of those
 powers, one would be inevitably faced with the possibility of one
 branch discharging dual and overlapping roles. JJ. The principle of no man being a judge in its own cause was
 explained by the Supreme Court as mandating the deciding
 authority being one which was impartial and without bias. It also
 alluded to aspects such as a predisposition to decide for or
 against one party or where that authority may be inclined to
 disregard the true merits of the dispute by virtue of bias. KK. This clearly exposes the authority to the charge of a predilection
 to affirm, the tendency to shut out a challenge to an opinion
 already formed and disregard the weight of argument aimed at
 convincing one to review and reappreciate. It would thus be akin
 to what we in law term as the useless formality theory- an appeal
 from Caesar to Caesar's wife. This in addition to such a
 procedure clearly becoming susceptible to the possibility of a
 person reasonably and justifiably viewing the same as being
 unfair and violating the golden principle of justice not only being
 done but being visibly and perceivably served. LL. Our jurisprudence on the subject lays great emphasis on
 proceedings not being tainted by preconceived opinions,
 predisposition or predetermination and underscores the
 imperatives of the absence of an unbiased mind. What thus
 emerges from the aforesaid discussion is that a body must not
 only be fair and impartial, but it should also not be burdened by a
 predisposition or a predetermined state of mind. MM. This aspect assumes significance insofar as we are concerned in
 light of a common complement of persons having rendered
 findings of alleged professional misconduct and thereafter sitting
 upon that very opinion to consider commencement of
 disciplinary action. A person charged by such an authority could
 be reasonably said to apprehend a reasonable likelihood of the
 opinion so formed being tainted by the proscription of a
 reasonable likelihood of bias. NN. As we have found on a review of the statutory scheme, the
 Legislature as well as the rule making authority appears to have
 consciously made appropriate provisions for the monitoring of
 compliance of SAs, enforcement of compliance, oversight,
 investigation and disciplinary proceedings being undertaken by
 different arms of the NFRA. The division of functions which the
 principles of due process and fairness would demand clearly
 appear to inform the statutory provisions when they speak of
 divisions performing different functions and obligations that
 stand placed. OO. As we have found in the body of this judgment, it was the
 Executive Body which in the first instance came to record
 findings of guilt and violation of the SAs'. Those reports had
 come to conclude in no uncertain terms that the petitioners had
 violated the ethics standards required to be maintained and
 having acted in violation of the SAs' which applied. That very
 body proceeded to take a decision to commence disciplinary
 action based not an independent review of the facts that obtained
 but solely on the strength of what had been found in the AQRR.
 The composition of the body which penned the AQRR and that
 which issued the SCN remained unaltered. The proceedings have
 thus come to be stigmatized beyond repair and cannot in law be
 salvaged or saved. PP. As is manifest from the language in which the AQRR and the
 SCNs' proceed, they are replete with findings which clearly
 appear to transgress the boundaries of a prima facie opinion or
 one which could be termed as being precursive. They ex facie
 verge if not cross the border of the conclusive. They are clearly
 imbued by notes of finality. It is these findings and conclusions
 rendered by the Executive Body which constituted the
 foundational material for the formation of opinion by it as to
 whether circumstances warranted disciplinary action being taken
 against the writ petitioners. The Executive Body thus not only
 acted as the propounder of a prima facie finding of violation of
 SAs and the laws, it took its own opinion into consideration for W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 473 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 the purposes of formation of the belief that sufficient cause
 existed to take action as contemplated under Section 132(4). QQ. We are thus of the firm opinion that the Executive Body could
 not have discharged the dual role of rendering findings of guilt
 and violation of the SAs' while authoring the SQARR/AQRR
 and thereafter don the mantle of the division which is
 contemplated under Rule 11. The assessment of whether
 circumstances warranted a disciplinary enquiry being initiated
 was statutorily liable to be undertaken by a unit of the NFRA
 separated from the one which drew up those reports. This since,
 the Act and the Rules clearly contemplate a separation of
 functions between different constituents of the NFRA. RR. Notwithstanding what may be observed in those reports, the law
 would contemplate and require a decision to initiate disciplinary
 action being arrived at impartially and independently. The
 procedure which NFRA chose to follow in these cases clearly
 lacked attributes of neutrality and a dispassionate appraisal. DISPOSITION 338. On an overall conspectus of the above, we uphold the validity of
 Section 132 and the NFRA Rules. We find no merit in the challenge
 based on the arguments of vicarious liability, retroactive operation and
 a violation of Article 20(1) of the Constitution. 339. We also find ourselves unable to sustain the challenge to those
 provisions which were asserted to suffer from the vice of manifest
 arbitrariness and deprivation of a fair procedure. The prescription of a W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 474 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26 summary procedure for trial of disciplinary matters neither obviates nor
 relieves the NFRA from adhering to a procedure which is in
 consonance with the principles of fairness and natural justice. 340. However, the NFRA clearly acted contrary to the command of
 the legislation which obliged it to bear in mind the division of functions
 and which clearly mandates a separation of roles that the authority is
 called upon to discharge under the Companies Act and the NFRA
 Rules. The assessment of whether circumstances warranted a
 disciplinary enquiry being initiated was statutorily liable to be
 undertaken by a unit of the NFRA separated from the one which drew
 up those reports. The procedure which NFRA chose to follow in these
 cases clearly lacked attributes of neutrality and a dispassionate
 appraisal. 341. We would thus allow the instant writ petitions and quash the
 impugned SCNs' and final orders assailed in this batch as per the
 details which appear below:- 342. However, we leave it open to the NFRA to draw proceedings
 afresh if so chosen and advised from the stage of issuance of fresh
 notices based on the findings that have come to be recorded in the
 AQRRs'. The findings and conclusions appearing in the AQRRs'
 would be liable to viewed as merely being the expression of a prima
 facie opinion as opposed to definitive conclusions. Those findings and
 conclusions may be evaluated afresh for the purposes of formation of
 opinion whether disciplinary action is liable to be initiated. 343. The decision of whether disciplinary action is liable to be
 commenced shall be taken independently by a complement of the
 NFRA comprising of members who were disconnected and
 disassociated from the process of audit review and the drawl of the
 AQRRs'. YASHWANT VARMA, J. DHARMESH SHARMA, J. FEBRUARY 07, 2025/Neha/DR/RW/KK W.P.(C) 1065/2021 & other connected matters Page 476 of 476 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAMLESH KUMAR Signing Date:07.02.2025 18:46:26