cause so as to deny the availment and/or utilization of

 Input Tax Credit (ITC) by the petitioner in respect of the

 purchases made by the petitioner from suppliers whose

 registration under the said Act has been subsequently

 cancelled. 3. It is also the petitioner's contention that the right

 to avail ITC having been statutorily provided for in Section 2 WPA 4167 of 2025

16 of the said Act, the show cause notices are primarily

without jurisdiction as the same does not identify

infraction of any of the provisions contained in Section 16 of the said Act. Since, the show cause is without

jurisdiction, the consequential orders passed under Section 74 of the said Act is also bad and consequentially

a nullity and should not be acted upon. According to the

petitioner, since the aforesaid is a jurisdictional issue,

this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is

competent to entertain the petition and adjudicate the

same on the merits, notwithstanding the presence of

alternative remedy. The Counsel would submit that

simply because the petitioner has not availed the

alternative remedy, the same should not deter this Court

to examine whether any case for interference has been

made out. In support of his contention he has placed

reliance on the judgments delivered by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of Godrej Sara Lee Ltd. v.

Excise and Taxation Officer-cum-Assessing Authority

and Others , reported in (2023) SCC Online SC 95 . On

the same and identical issue and the right of a party to

invoke the extra ordinary writ jurisdiction despite

presence of alternative remedy, reliance has been placed

on the judgment delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of Syed Maqbool Ali v. State of Uttar

Pradesh and Another , reported in (2011) 15 SCC 383.

While reiterating his contention on the issue as to

whether ITC can be denied contrary to the statutory 3 WPA 4167 of 2025

mandate provided for in Section 16 of the said Act, he

would submit that a taxing statute is to be strictly

construed, in absence of any provisions provided for

disallowance of ITC in the manner prescribed by law, no

other provisions can be read in the statute so as to deny

ITC to the petitioner. In support of the above, he relies on

the judgment delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

the case of Ajmera Housing Corporation & Anr. v.

Commissioner of Income Tax , reported in (2010) 8 SCC

739 to emphasize that a taxing statute has to be strictly

construed. 3. Mr. Dey, learned counsel representing the

respondents while objecting to the maintainability of the

writ petition on the ground of alternative remedy has

drawn the attention of this Court to the provisions of Section

74 of the said Act and would submit that the provisions of Section 74 authorizes the respondents/proper officer not

only to embark upon an enquiry but also to determine the

liability of the petitioner, if the conditions for invocation of

such section are fulfilled. According to him, the petitioner

had not challenged the show cause notice previously. The

petitioner has also not challenged the invocation of Section 74 of the said Act. Having not done so and having

regard to the availability of an efficacious alternative

remedy in the form of an appeal, this Court should not

accept the challenge made in the writ petition. 4. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for

the respective parties, I may notice that the petitioner has 4 WPA 4167 of 2025

challenged two separate set of proceedings in one

particular writ petition. Although, ordinarily the same is

not permissible, however, having regard to the fact that

the parties have already argued this matter and since the

petitioner has undertaken to put in additional court fees,

unless sufficient court fees are already paid, I proceed to

hear out this matter. I, however, notice from the

submissions made by the learned counsel representing

the petitioner and the materials available on record that

the petitioner's primary challenge is directed against the

reversal of the ITC on the ground of irregular availment of

ITC, since, according to the petitioner such reversal has

been effected contrary to the provisions contained in Section 16 of the said Act. To appropriately consider the

challenge made by the petitioner it is necessary to

consider the provisions of Section 16 of the said Act. To

appropriately appreciate the same the said Section is

extracted hereinbelow:- WPA 4167 of 2025 (a) he is in possession of a tax invoice or debit note issued by a
 supplier registered under this Act, or such other tax paying
 documents as may be prescribed; [(aa) the details of the invoice or debit note referred to in clause (a) has been furnished by the supplier in the statement of
 outward supplies and such details have been
 communicated to the recipient of such invoice or debit note
 in the manner specified under Section 37 ;] (b) he has received the goods or services or both; [Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, it shall
 be deemed that the registered person has received the
 goods or, as the case may be, services-- (i) where the goods are delivered by the supplier to a recipient
 or any other person on the direction of such registered
 person, whether acting as an agent or otherwise, before or
 during movement of goods, either by way of transfer of
 documents of title to goods or otherwise; (ii) where the services are provided by the supplier to any
 person on the direction of and on account of such registered
 person.]
[(ba) the details of input tax credit in respect of the said supply
 communicated to such registered person under Section 38 has not been restricted;] (c) subject to the provisions of [ Section 41 [* * *]], the tax
 charged in respect of such supply has been actually paid to
 the Government, either in cash or through utilisation of
 input tax credit admissible in respect of the said supply;
 and (d) he has furnished the return under Section 39 : 18, 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21, the registered person
shall be entitled to take input tax credit in any return under section 39 which is filed up to the thirtieth day of
November, 2021.]
 [(6) Where registration of a registered person is
cancelled under Section 29 and subsequently the
cancellation of registration is revoked by any order, either
under Section 30 or pursuant to any order made by the
Appellate Authority or the Appellate Tribunal or court and
where availment of input tax credit in respect of an invoice 7 WPA 4167 of 2025

 or debit note was not restricted under sub-section (4) on the
 date of order of cancellation of registration, the said person
 shall be entitled to take the input tax credit in respect of
 such invoice or debit note for supply of goods or services or
 both, in a return under Section 39 ,-- (i) filed up to thirtieth day of November following the financial
 year to which such invoice or debit note pertains or
 furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is
 earlier; or (ii) for the period from the date of cancellation of registration or
 the effective date of cancellation of registration, as the case
 may be, till the date of order of revocation of cancellation of
 registration, where such return is filed within thirty days
 from the date of order of revocation of cancellation of
 registration,
 whichever is later.]" This is not one of such exceptional cases for this Court to

entertain a petition of this nature, for identical reasons

the judgments relied on by the petitioner delivered in the

case of Syed Maqbool Ali (supra) is distinguishable on

facts and do not assist the petitioner. I may, however,

hasten to add that the petitioner had previously

approached this Court challenging the action of blocking

the electronic credit ledger effected by order dated 20th

July, 2024. Since, by such time the impugned show-

cause had been issued and was pending adjudication,

this Court by order dated 4th October, 2024 had directed

the proper officer to expeditiously hear out the show-

cause. At that stage, no challenge was made to the show-

cause notices. The petitioner had accepted the show-

cause and had responded to the show-cause. The above

appears to be a desperate attempt to somehow wriggle out

of the statutory remedy provided for. WPA 4167 of 2025 8. The challenge made by the petitioner fails. The

writ petition is accordingly dismissed without any order

as to costs, leaving it open to the petitioner to approach

the appellate authority, if so advised. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order, if

applied for, be made available to the parties upon

compliance of requisite formalities. (Raja Basu Chowdhury, J.)