This order will dispose of the above mentioned four appeals, as
common questions of law and facts are involved. The facts have been extracted from CEA No. 28 of 2005.
 The Revenue is in appeal against the order dated 11.6.2004,
passed by the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, New
Delhi (for short, `the Tribunal') in Appeal No. E/505/03-NB (SM) raising
the following substantial question of law: Briefly, the facts are that a show cause notices were issued to
the respondent-assessees in all the aforesaid four appeals on 17.6.1999 with
the allegations that they have contravened the provisions of Rule 57A and
57G of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 (for short, `the Rules') for having
fraudulently availed modvat credit to the tune of lacs of rupees. The fraud
came to the notice of the department during the course of inspection. On
22.7.1998, search was conducted on the premises of M/s Shobhit Impex,
Abohar, M/s Gandhi Chem-fert Industries, Old Fazilka Road, Abohar and
M/s Gandhi Metal (P) Ltd., Old Fazilka Road, Abohar on 23.7.1998. It was
found that M/s Shobhit Impex had a godown located at Chak Sidhu
Complex, Malout Road, Abohar of the size of 12 feet x 18 feet where large
quantity of imported copper scrap was claimed to have been stored.
Statements of various persons were recorded. Surinder Kamra, Proprietor of
M/s Kamara Traders, who was also having a godown space at Chak Sidhu
Complex, in his statement recorded on 23.7.1998 stated he never saw any
movement of goods in the godown of M/s Shobhit Impex. Similar were the
statements of Ashwani Kumar and Mangat Ram. Even Om Parkash Gandhi,
General Power of Attorney holder of M/s Shobhit Impex also admitted in
his statement that the godown as such was never used for bringing and
 C.E.A. No. 28 of 2005 [ 3]

disposing of the imported goods. The same were directly disposed of from
the ports. He further admitted that G.R. in respect of movement of goods
from Abohar to buyer's destination was issued by him on the blank G.Rs.
handed over to him by the proprietor. Show cause notice was issued with
the clear allegation of fraudulently availing of the modvat credit by the
respondent-assessees. The Commissioner, adjudicating authority, vide order
dated 21.11.2002 raised the demand and imposed penalty on the assessees.
Relevant part of the order of the Commissioner is extracted below: under Rule 173Q of Central Excise Rules, 1944 on Noticee Sr. No.4 and 5 and
 under Rule 209A of Central Excise Rules, 1944 on noticee Sr. No. 13 and 14. .................................................................................................................................. 1. Leader Engg. Works, 3,94,502.00 3,94,502 Three lacs ninety
 Jalandhar four thousand five
 hundred and two
 only. Aggrieved against the order passed by the Commissioner, the
assesses preferred appeals before the Tribunal, who relying upon the
judgment of Hon'ble the Supreme Court in Commissioner of Central Excise
v. H. M. M. Ltd. , (1995) 76 ELT 497, accepted the appeals by holding that
in the case in hand, the extended period of limitation in terms of Section
11A of the Act could not be invoked for the reason that there was no
whisper in the show cause notice regarding the fraud having been played by
the assessees. Heard learned counsel for the Revenue. No one has put in
appearance on behalf of the assessees. Learned counsel for the Revenue submitted that the finding
recorded by the Tribunal in the impugned order is totally contrary to record
and is perverse. He referred to the show cause notice issued to the assessees
and submitted that there are clear allegations of fraud against the assessees,
to whom a common notice had been issued, pointing out the fraud
committed by them in availing the modvat credit. He submitted that it is not
at one place, rather, a number of places that such type of allegations have
been made in the show cause notice. Still further, the submission is that
 C.E.A. No. 28 of 2005 [ 5]

non-mention of fraud in the show cause notice itself may not be a good
ground to quash the same once it can be found from the facts stated in the
show cause notice that it was a clear case of fraud. Finally, the submission
is that the impugned order passed by the Tribunal deserves to be set aside as
the same is based on presumption of wrong facts. The relevant part of the show cause notice containing
allegations of fraud is extracted below: The scrutiny of the records of M/s Shobhit Impex,
 Abohar resumed from the premises of M/s Gandhi Chem-fert
 Industries, Abohar reveal that: (Emphasis supplied) Section 11A(1) of the Act, which is extracted below, provides
for recovery of duties not levied or not paid or short-levied or short-paid or
erroneously refunded: The period of limitation provided for dealing with a case in the
normal circumstances is one year from the relevant date. However, in case it
is found that the duty has not been levied or paid or short-levied or short-
paid by reason of fraud, collusion or any wilful mis-statement or
suppression of facts or contravention of any of the provisions of the Act and
the Rules framed thereunder, the period of limitation to initiate the
proceedings is five years. A perusal of the show cause notice issued to the assessees in
the present case clearly shows that at more than one place in the show cause
notice, the allegations of fraud have been levelled against the assessees,
besides violation of the provisions of the Act and the Rules. The
Commissioner, while dealing with the contentions raised by the parties/
assessees to the show cause notice, discussed the matter in the following
manner: J.K. Beri S/o Sh. P.N. Beri, Managing Director of M/s Leader
 Engg. Works, Jalandhar admitted in his statement dated 26.7.98
 C.E.A. No. 28 of 2005 [ 9]

 that they have received only the invoice and not the goods
 pertaining to the said invoice, in their factory. He has further
 stated that because of the forged/ fake documents issued by M/s
 Shobhit Impex, Abohar he was ready to debit/reverse the
 amount of modvat credit so availed. xx xx xx
 I find that they have wrongly availed the Modvat credit
 amounting to Rs. 3,94,502/- and is recoverable from them under
 Rule 57I(1) and are also liable to penal action under Rule 57I(4)
 of Central Excise Rules, 1944. The amount of modvat credit of
 Rs. 40,000/- and Rs. 2,19,789/- has already been debited by M/s
 Leader Engg. Works, Jalandhar in RG-23A Part-II vide entry
 No. 1312 dated 26.7.98 and PLA entry No. 102 dated 27.7.98.
 The balance amount of Rs. 1,03,060/- and Rs. 31653/- taken as
 modvat credit by M/s Leader Engg. Works, Jalandhar have also
 been deposited by M/s Ruby Impex, Jalandharand M/s Satish
 Metal Co., Jalandhar on account of M/s Leader Engg. Works
 (Leader Valves), Jalandhar, through TR-6 Challan No. 1/98 and
 2/98 both dated 1.8.98 and through TR-6 Challan No. 1/98
 dated 1.8.98. xx xx xx (iii) M/s Vardhman India Product, Jalandhar have availed
 modvat credit to the tune of Rs. 57,119.78 on 1 (one) invoice
 issued by M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar. However, as discussed in
 the previous paras, the goods of invoice no. 52 dated 22.12.97
 have never reached M/s Vardhman India Product, Jalandhar. Sh.
 Sandeep Jain of M/s Vardhman India Product has admitted in
 his statement dated 31.7.98 that they had received only the
 invoice without any goods. I find that they have wrongly
 availed and utilized Modvat credit amounting to Rs. 57,119.78
 and is recoverable from them under Rule 57I(1) and are liable to
 penal action under Rule 57I(4) of Central Excise Rules, 1944.
 This amount has already been deposited vide their TR-6 Challan
 No.1 dated 1.8.98. vi) M/s Aman Engg. Works, Jalandhar have availed modvat
 credit to the tune of Rs. 61,527.04 on 1 (one) invoice issued by
 M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar. However, as discussed in the
 previous paras, the goods of invoice no. 56 dated 26.12.97
 issued by M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar have not been received
 by M/s Aman Engg. Works, Jalandhar as Sh. Ashok Sharma S/o
 Sh. Des Raj Sharma Prop. M/s Aman Engg. Works, Jalandhar
 has admitted in his statement dated 31.7.98 that they had
 received only the invoice and not the goods pertaining to this
 invoice. He further admitted the incorrectness of invoice issued
 by M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar and agreed to reverse the
 amount of Modvat credit so wrongly availed by him on the said
 invoice. I find that the amount of Rs. 61,527.04 is recoverable
 from them under Rule 57I(1) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 and
 has already been debited by them in PLA vide E. No. 247 and
 250 dated 31.7.98 and 1.8.98. They are also liable for penal
 action under Rule 57I(4) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 for
 contravention of aforesaid provisions of Central Excise Law. xx xx xx xii) M/s V. K. Valves (P) Ltd., Jalandhar have availed modvat
 credit to the tune of Rs. 43,746.00 on 1 (one) invoice issued by
 M/s Satish Metal & Co., Jalandhar (out of a total credit of Rs.
 75,411.41, available with M/s Satish Metal Co., Jalandhar in
 respect of 1 (one) invoice i.e. invoice no. 13 dated 21.5.97
 issued by M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar to them). However, as
 discussed in the previous paras, the goods of invoice no. 13
 dated 21.5.97 issued by M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar could not
 have been received by M/s Satish Metal Co., Jalandhar as Sh.
 Satish Kumar S/o Sh. Madan Lal Jain Prop. M/s Satish Metal
 Co. Jalandhar has admitted in his statement dated 31.7.98 that
 he had received only the invoice and not the goods pertaining to
 this invoice. He further admitted the incorrectness of invoice
 issued by M/s Shobhit Impex, Abohar. Thus M/s Satish Metal
 Co., Jalandhar have wrongly passed on the Modvat credit to the
 C.E.A. No. 28 of 2005 [ 11]

 tune of Rs. 43,746.00 to M/s V. K. Valves (P) Ltd., Jalandhar. I find that they have wrongly availed/utilized Modvat
 credit amounting to Rs. 43,746/- and is recoverable from them
 under Rule 57I(1) of Central Excise Rules, 1944. This amount
 of Rs. 43,746/- has already been debited vide RG-23A Part-II
 entry No. 221 dated 1.8.98. They are also liable to penal action
 under Rule 57I(4) of Central Excise Rules, 1944 for the
 contravention of aforesaid provisions of Central Excise Law." In H. M. M. Limited 's case (supra), Hon'ble the Supreme Court
opined that in case the extended period of limitation is to be invoked by the
department by placing reliance on the proviso to Section 11A of the Act,
the same should be made out from the allegations made in the show cause
notice. Relevant para thereof is extracted below: It is a matter of common knowledge that those who resort to
foul acts, ordinarily do so with a thick cover and camouflage. To locate the
black spots and unravel the ugly aspects is not all that easy. It is only for this
reason that extended period of 5 years limitation has been provided to bring
such wilful defaulters to book. The discovery or detection of an unseemly
act slyly carried out by these unscrupulous evaders would necessarily entail
 C.E.A. No. 28 of 2005 [ 13]

some time. If the facts and circumstances of the present case are considered
in the light of the enunciation of law, as referred to above , the inescapable
conclusion would be that the impugned order passed by the Tribunal is not
in conformity with the same. The only contention raised by learned counsel
for the assessee before the Tribunal was that in the show cause notice, there
is no allegation about the suppression of facts with intention to evade
payment of tax. Referring to the judgment of Hon'ble the Supreme Court in H. M. M. Limited 's case (supra), the Tribunal opined that it must be alleged
in the show cause notice that the duty of excise has not been levied or paid
by reason of fraud, collusion or wilful misstatement or suppression of facts
on the part of the assessees or by reason of contravention of any of the
provisions of the Act or Rules made thereunder. A perusal of the contents of the show cause notice issued to the
assessees in the present case clearly establishes that the parties in the present
case had fraudulently/wrongfully availed modvat credit, which was not
admissible to them under the Act and the Rules and, therefore, there was
evasion of excise duty. This necessarily meant that had the parties not
availed of modvat credit fraudulently, they would have been liable to pay
the excise duty. The Commissioner, while considering the submissions
made by the assesses on merits and the admissions made by the persons
involved in the entire scam, recorded a categoric finding about the evasion
of duty on the basis of forged/ fake documents issued by M/s Shobhit
Impex. Their conduct and admission of guilt is evident from the fact that
immediately after the entire process of evasion came to the notice of the
department, the assessees volunteered to surrender the amount and reversed
the credit in their records. The finding of fact recorded by the
Commissioner regarding fraudulently availing the modvat credit by the
assesses was not disputed before the Tribunal, as the only issue raised was
regarding extended period of limitation. C.E.A. No. 28 of 2005 [ 14]

 In view of our discussion, the impugned order dated 11.6.2004
passed by the Tribunal is set aside. The substantial question of law raised
by the Revenue is answered in favour of the Revenue and against the
assessees. The appeals are disposed of accordingly. (Rajesh Bindal)
 Judge

 (Hemant Gupta)
 Judge
21.8.2008
mk