SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Its high time the ongoing fraud happening at Bangalore's Ola Zone should end
DATE: 2021-03-05
SCORE: 25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/lyecfx/its_high_time_the_ongoing_fraud_happening_at/

--- POST TEXT ---

Its an age old problem, you'll find several forum posts complaining about this but its yet not fixed. When you land at the Bangalore airport and visit the Ola Zone to hire a cab, the following thing typically happens:

1. You book a cab using Ola app, the app gives you an OTP and asks you to pick any of the cabs standing in the Ola zone.
2. You pick a random cab, load your luggage and sit in the cab.
3. But the driver doesn't accept your OTP. Instead, he insists that you just cancel the ride and pay that amount once you reach your destination thus bypassing the Ola's app system.

Since your luggage is already loaded, you will most likely agree to it. If you don't, the driver will plead that they're just poor folks who want to avoid Ola's commission and insist you to do it. It seems most passengers are agreeing to this and now this has become a norm, thus bringing down Ola's ride quality and brand over the last few years in Bangalore.

It has happened to me several times and I've complained about it on the app but to no avail. Its not as if the Ola company isn't aware of this fraud but I don't know why they haven't done anything to fix this yet. Maybe, the Bangalore cab union is too strong for this? My suggestion to Ola company is as follows:

1. Just remove the "zone" system at Bangalore airport. Instead, just allow booking the normal way i.e. pair the passenger with any random available driver. This way, if a driver tries to bypass the system, you'll have a record of him and so will the passenger (and hopefully, you'll blacklist him so that no passengers are duped).

2. When someone books a cab to the airport (from anywhere else in the city), please pair only the most vetted and honest drivers in your system because this fraud happens when travelling to the airport too. The unvetted drivers who bypass the Ola system are typically the worst, they take a different route to avoid the toll near the airport and this results in huge delays and sometimes even a missed flight for passengers.

People should raise this issue at all levels including social media. Unless some high level political intervention happens, I don't think this practice will ever stop. There is BJP govt. in Karnataka, maybe Tejasvi Surya should take the lead in fixing this?

**Edit**

DISCLAIMER: I'm not an employee of Ola/Uber or any other cab company, I'm just a frustrated consumer who wants to state a grievance.