{ 24th September, 2014 }

Per: A.M. Khanwilkar, Chief Justice : 2. By the impugned order, VYAPAM revoked the

examination results of these petitioners, in respect of

examination conducted in 2012 for selection of Junior Supply

Officer and Inspector (Weights & Measures), on the ground that

they had indulged in unfair means during the examination

within the meaning of Clause 2.11 of the Rule Book. 3. It is common ground that on the basis of the said

examination results, the petitioners have been appointed against

the vacant post in respect of which the selection process was 5 conducted. As a result of the impugned order, the petitioners

apprehended consequential action by their employer - State of

Madhya Pradesh and therefore, rushed to this Court by way of

present writ petitions challenging the correctness of the

impugned order passed by VYAPAM dated 13.06.2014. The

said order reads, thus: 4. Indeed, the purport of provision such as Clause 2.11

and the enabling power of VYAPAM has been expounded in Ku. Pratibha Singh (Minor) vs. The State of Madhya Pradesh and others1 and companion cases decided by the Division

Bench of this Court on 11th April, 2014. 5. The question that needs to be answered in the

present petitions, however, is somewhat different. The first

contention urged by the petitioners is that the impugned

decision is vitiated, as no opportunity whatsoever was given to

the petitioners before issuance of the said order. That inevitably

renders the impugned order bad in law as it is vitiated being hit

by principles of natural justice. As regards this contention, the

respondents contend that this argument is answered in the

abovesaid decision. However, this submission may be partially

correct. In that, the requirement of observance of principles of

natural justice would stand dispensed with only if the Court

were to further accept the plea of the respondents (VYAPAM) 1 W.P. No.20342/2013 by High Court of M.P. (DB) 8 that the action was taken against the respective petitioners being

a case of mass-copying and not otherwise. Be that as it may, the

challenge to the impugned order dated 13.6.2014 would

succeed on the other grounds urged by the petitioners for which

reason it may not be necessary for us to examine any other

issue. 6. The other contention, is that, the impugned order

merely refers to the fact that on examination of answer-sheets

of the concerned petitioners it has been revealed that circles

were filled by different ink. No more and no less. That fact, by

itself, cannot be the basis to assume that the petitioners had

indulged in unfair means during the examination. Moreover, the

fact so recorded in the impugned order is not on the basis of any

independent inquiry undertaken by VYAPAM but is solely

founded on the intimation received from the Investigating

Officer investigating the Crime No.15/2013 vide his letter dated

09.06.2014. In that case, it must necessarily follow that the

impugned decision has been taken in abdication of its duty by

VYAPAM - of undertaking scrutiny of the factual position

before exercising such a drastic power - if not under dictation of

Special Task Force (STF) investigating the crime. 7. It is further contended by the petitioners that even if 9 it is found that VYAPAM has intrinsic authority to deal with

cases of fraud and unfair means committed during the

examination conducted by VYAPAM, it could have done so

only after undertaking an independent inquiry and upon

reaching to a definite conclusion that, in fact, in its opinion,

such fraud has been played by the concerned candidates and not

merely on the basis of report or communication received from

STF. Further, at best, VYAPAM could have resorted to action

on the basis of proved and substantiated fact before the

Criminal Court and not with reference to the contents of the

charge-sheet filed before the Criminal Court indicating

complicity of the concerned candidate. In other words,

VYAPAM could have resorted to such a drastic action only

after the finding of guilt was recorded by the Criminal Court

against the concerned candidate or on the basis of definite

opinion formed by VYAPAM in an independent inquiry

conducted by it. These are the broad submissions made on

behalf of the petitioners, which will have to be decided on the

basis of the response given by the respondents. 8. The respondents, in particular, VYAPAM has filed a

common reply-affidavit in Writ Petition No.9690/2014

( Shishuvendra Singh Tomar vs. The State of Madhya Pradesh 10 and others ) and has placed on record relevant communications

and note-sheets in the official record maintained by VYAPAM. 9. During the pendency of these petitions, Special Task

Force (STF), which is entrusted with the investigation of the

criminal cases registered against the petitioners, was advised to

file intervention application on the assertion that several crucial

matters have come to its notice during the investigation of the

criminal case and the same may be considered in larger public

interest. However, we are of the considered opinion that in the

context of limited challenge to the order passed by VYAPAM,

which is purely a civil action, the STF can neither be said to be

necessary nor proper party. As a result, the intervention

applications (I.A. No.10009/2014 in W.P. No.9690/2014, I.A.

No.10005/2014 in W.P. No.9691/2014, I.A. No.10010/2014 in

W.P. No.10199/2014 and I.A. No.10336/2014 in W.P.

No.10592/2014) need not detain us any further. 10. Reverting to the stand taken by VYAPAM in the

common reply-affidavit, the attempt is to point out that the

impugned decision has been taken by VYAPAM on the basis of

information received by VYAPAM in that behalf. Reference is

made to the communications exchanged between the

Investigating Agency (STF) and officials of VYAPAM. 11 11. The first communication received from the

Investigating Officer of STF dated 25.11.2013, addressed to the

Controller of VYAPAM, mentions that STF registered Crime

No.15/2013 under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B of

IPC, Sections 3(d) , 1 and 2 / 4 of the M.P. Recognised

Examination Act, 1937 and also under Section 65 and 66 of the

Information Technology Act against 18 candidates, who had

appeared in the Food Inspector Examination-2012 and who

have taken illegal benefit and the investigation in that behalf

was in progress. The STF, thereafter, seized all the original

OMR sheets of the named 18 candidates (including the

petitioners before this Court), on 29.11.2013. The officials of

VYAPAM provided information, as was demanded by the

Investigating Officer, vide letter dated 07.12.2013. During the

investigation of the crime, the Investigating Officer obtained

Expert's opinion with reference to the contents of the answer-

sheets. That became available on 24th April, 2014 (Annexure A-

1 at page-4 of Intervention Application). The Investigating

Officer vide his letter dated 19th May, 2014 informed the

Controller of VYAPAM that from the investigation done till

then it is revealed that the named 15 candidates had indulged in

unfair means during the examination and have been appointed 12 against the concerned post on the basis of examination results

declared by VYAPAM. The Investigating Officer, therefore,

recommended to take action against the concerned candidates.

In response to that communication, the Controller of VYAPAM

requested the Investigating Officer by his letter dated

05.06.2014 to furnish report regarding the involvement of 15

candidates so that VYAPAM could initiate appropriate action

against them. 12. Reliance is also placed on another communication

dated 07.06.2014 sent by Controller, VYAPAM to the Assistant

Inspector General of Police. This letter is sent with reference to

communication dated 26.04.2014 received from Assistant

Inspector General of Police whereby VYAPAM was called

upon to furnish original copy of the answer-sheets and original

copy of Record of Attendance Sheet concerning the 18 named

candidates. The Controller by his abovementioned letter,

informed that the stated record has already been seized by Shri

Gulab Singh Rajput, Dy.S.P., STF, Bhopal on 29.04.2014 and

24.05.2014 respectively from the office of VYAPAM. In

response to the letter received from VYAPAM dated

05.06.2014, the Inspector General of Police by his letter dated

09.06.2014 informed the Controller, VYAPAM that the 13 investigation done so far revealed that the named candidates

have used different ink to fill the circles in the OMR sheets, as

is revealed from Q.D. Report. The letter then recommends the

Controller, VYAPAM to take appropriate action against the

named 16 candidates. The note appended to the said

communication further mentions that candidate Abhishek Singh

Thakur (Roll No.704605), who has been named as one of the 16

candidates, however, has died due to accident on 11.10.2013. 13. Reliance is also placed on internal note-sheets of

VYAPAM between 30.05.2014 to 11.06.2014 to point out that

the entire matter was considered at different level and finally

conclusion was reached that the stated 15 candidates had

indulged in unfair means during the examination for which

reason, their examination result was required to be cancelled.

The said internal note-sheet has been appended as Annexure R-

8 to reply filed by respondent No.3. The first note-sheet dated

30.05.2014 refers to the communication received from the

Investigating Officer of STF dated 19th May, 2014 and the fact

that the investigation in connection with Crime No.15/2013 was

underway and the investigation done till then revealed that 15

named candidates had indulged in unfair means during the

examination conducted by VYAPAM and succeeded in being 14 appointed against the concerned posts of Junior Food Supply

Officer/ Inspector (Weights and Measures). The note-sheet also

explicitly mentions that the communication received from the

office of STF recommends taking action against the named

candidates. The file was, thereafter, processed at different level

upto the highest level. From the notings of the different officials

it is amply clear that the action is solely founded on the

information furnished by the officials of Special Task Force

about the evidence gathered during investigation indicating

complicity of 16 candidates, who had appeared in the

examination conducted by VYAPAM having resorted to unfair

means by using different ink to fill the circles in the answer-

sheets. There is no mention whatsoever that VYAPAM after

receipt of intimation from the officials of Special Task Force

decided to independently inquire into the correctness of the

factum of different ink used by those candidates to fill in the

circles in the answer-sheet and whether that conduct by itself

was sufficient to infer that the concerned candidate indulged in

commission of unfair means during the examination. The

remarks in all the note-sheets, instead, refer to the

communication received from STF informing about status of

investigation and possibility of involvement of 16 candidates 15 (including the petitioners). Having referred to that

communication received from Special Task Force, the

concerned Authorities of VYAPAM jumped to the conclusion

that it was a case covered by Clause 2.11 of the Rule Book

meaning thereby the named 16 candidates indulged in unfair

means during the examination and for which reason, their

examination results deserved to be cancelled. The same position

is manifest from the final order passed against the petitioners

dated 13.06.2014, which is impugned in these petitions. 14. After having perused the impugned order dated

13.06.2014 and upon close scrutiny of the documents pressed

into service by VYAPAM, it is amply clear that the impugned

action of VYAPAM was ignited after receipt of communication

from the officials of Special Task Force dated 19.05.2014, in

particular. Upon receipt of that communication, admittedly,

VYAPAM did not set up any enquiry committee of its own to

inquire into the factual matter referred to in the said

communication and more so, to examine the fact whether using

of different ink to fill in the circles in the answer-sheets by the

named candidates, by itself, amounted to unfair means

committed during the examination or something more was

necessary and further whether that something more can be 16 discerned from the records available with VYAPAM. No doubt,

the relevant record concerning the examination of named 16

candidates (including the petitioners) was seized by the Special

Task Force on 29.11.2013. However, if VYAPAM wanted to

conduct independent inquiry to ascertain whether it was a case

of mass copying or mass malpractice and, in particular,

commission of unfair means during the examination, it could

have requested STF to make available the seized documents for

the purposes of such inquiry. In other words, the indisputable

fact emerging from the communications and note-sheets

pressed into service, is that, VYAPAM purely went by the

communication received from the Investigating Agency that the

investigation of criminal case registered against the petitioners

revealed that they used different inks to fill in the circles in the

answer-sheet during the examination. In our opinion, that, by

itself, cannot be the basis to proceed in the matter and more so,

to pass such a drastic order of cancellation of the examination

results of the petitioners. In that, VYAPAM has not

independently inquired into the factual aspects and including

whether the fact of using different ink to fill in the circles in the

answer-sheets by the candidate would be a case of unfair means

as such, much less a case of mass copying or mass malpractice, 17 so as to dispense with the requirement of giving opportunity of

being heard to the candidate likely to be affected by its

decision. Thus understood, it is a case of abdication of duty by

VYAPAM. Inasmuch as, existence of such a drastic power is

coupled with the duty to exercise that power with

circumspection and by following fair procedure. Even if we do

not intend to go into the argument as to whether the impugned

action is taken under dictation of the Investigating Agency

(Special Task Force), as there is other strong reason, which is so

palpable from the record, to hold that the impugned order and

the process adopted by VYAPAM to invoke the power of

cancellation of results of the concerned candidates is untenable

in law, the petitioners are entitled for relief of quashing of the

impugned order on that basis alone. 15. Once it is held that the impugned order passed by

VYAPAM dated 13.06.2014 is unsustainable and cannot stand

the test of judicial scrutiny, the same is required to be quashed

and set aside. It would necessarily follow that the impugned

order cannot be made the basis to take any further action by the

employer against the concerned petitioner. At the same time,

quashing of the said order would not denude VYAPAM from

initiating proper inquiry into the factual matters brought to its 18 notice by the Investigating Agency to ascertain whether the

factum of using different ink by the concerned candidate can be

made basis for concluding that it was a case of unfair means

and more so, a case of mass copying or mass malpractice.

Dependent on the opinion to be formed in such independent

inquiry, it would be open to VYAPAM to take the matter further

including to cancel the examination results of the candidates.

All questions in that behalf will have to be examined on its own

merits in accordance with law at the appropriate stage. 16. Learned counsel for the respondent-VYAPAM was

at pains to persuade us to take the view that the inquiry to be

conducted by VYAPAM would be a mere formality. In that, the

Experts, whose report was sought by the Investigating Agency,

have already opined that different ink was used to fill in the

circles in the answer-sheets by the same candidates during the

examination. Further, the Experts were none other than the

State Agency. Being independent Agency, there was no reason

to doubt its opinion about the use of different ink appearing in

the answer-sheets of the concerned candidates. In other words,

no fruitful purpose would be served by conducting independent

inquiry to ascertain the same fact on which opinion has been

given by the Experts. 17. In our opinion, that report may be a relevant material

to be considered during the inquiry to be undertaken by

VYAPAM. But, that report, by itself, will not be sufficient to

answer the issue as to whether the act of commission or

omission mentioned therein, is a case of commission of unfair

means by the concerned candidate and more so, of resorting to

mass copying or mass malpractice. Something more will have

to be spelt out. Further, as observed by the Division Bench of

this Court in the case of Ku. Pratibha Singh (supra), VYAPAM

is the sole Authority to deal with all aspects concerning the

examination conducted by it. Thus, the stand taken by

VYAPAM that no independent inquiry would be necessary

before exercise of power to cancel the examination results of

the concerned candidates, does not commend to us. 18. For the same reason, we are not impressed by the

argument of the respondents that from the record furnished by

the Investigating Agency (STF) there was ample material to

conclude that it was not only a case of using of different ink to

fill in the circles in the answer-sheet during the examination by

the same candidates but indicating a consistent pattern of the

concerned candidates having left the circles blank and the same

were later on filled in by the erring officials of VYAPAM, who 20 used different ink or that it was a case of commission of

organized unfair means during the examination. As aforesaid, in

the independent inquiry, these aspects will have to be analyzed

on its own merits. 19. Be that as it may, we find that neither the note-sheets

nor the communications exchanged between the officials of

VYAPAM and of Special Task Force, even remotely suggest

that subjective satisfaction or conclusion of the appropriate

Authority of VYAPAM, about the existence of facts constituting

commission of organised unfair means by the concerned

candidate or to be a case of mass copying or mass malpractice

has been recorded. Instead, the note-sheets make it amply clear

that VYAPAM merely went by the opinionated remark of the

Investigating Agency and mistook its recommendation of taking

action against the concerned candidates as sufficient, without

conducting any independent inquiry of its own. A priori, it is a

clear case of non-application of mind by VYAPAM, if not

abdication of its duty before exercising the drastic power of

cancellation of examination results of the petitioners. 20. Having said this, we may now turn to the reported

decisions on which reliance has been placed by the learned

counsel for the respective parties. The Apex Court in the case of 21 State Bank of India and others vs. Palak Modi and another2 in

paragraph 37, had occasion to deal with the issue of use of

unfair means during the evaluation test/confirmation test held

by the Bank. The Court, in similar circumstances, observed that

the exercise was not preceded by an inquiry involving the

private respondents and no opportunity was given to them to

defend themselves against the charge of use of unfair means.

Reliance was also placed on paragraph 46 of this judgment to

point out that the Bank was directed to reinstate the private

respondents with liberty for taking fresh decision in the matter

after giving opportunity of hearing to the concerned persons. The petitioners have also relied on another decision of the Apex

Court in the case of Inderpreet Singh Kahlon and others vs.

State of Punjab and others3, in particular, on the dictum in

paragraphs 59, 94 and 95 as well as 146 to buttress the

argument that the impugned order be quashed. 21. On the other hand, counsel for the respondent-

VYAPAM has relied on the decision of the Apex Court in the

case of Board of High School and Intermediate Education,

U.P. Allahabad and another vs. Bagleshwar Prasad and 2 (2013) 3 SCC 607 3 (2006) 11 SCC 356 22 another4 , in particular paragraph 11, to contend that since it is

a case of mass copying or mass malpractice, the question of

giving personal hearing to the petitioners did not arise. This

judgment has been noticed by the Division Bench of this Court

in the case of Ku. Pratibha Singh (supra). The respondents

may be justified in taking this plea, provided, are in a position

to substantiate that it was, in fact, a case of mass copying so as

to dispense with personal hearing to be given to the candidates

before cancelling their examination results. However, for the

reasons already recorded, the impugned decision cannot be

sustained but with liberty to VYAPAM to conduct independent

inquiry before taking final decision. We would agree to the

limited extent that depending on the outcome of the said inquiry

it may be open to VYAPAM to consider whether to give

personal hearing to the concerned candidate or otherwise. In

that, if it is a case of mass copying or mass malpractice, in law,

there would be no obligation to give personal hearing to the

concerned candidate. 22. Respondents also placed reliance on the decision of

the Apex Court in the case of Ram Preeti Yadav vs. U.P. Board

of High School and Intermediate Education and others5 to 4 AIR 1966 SC 875 5 (2003) 8 SCC 311 23 contend that once it is found that it is a case of fraud, it will

deprive the person indulging in such fraud of all advantages and

benefits obtained thereby. No doubt, if VYAPAM were to

conduct independent inquiry and finally conclude that it was a

case of unfair means committed by the concerned petitioner

during the examination, would be free to proceed against that

candidate including by revoking his examination results and the

consequences of such cancellation would follow in law. This

aspect has already been considered by the Division Bench of

our High Court in the case of Ku. Pratibha Singh (supra). 23. Reliance was then placed on another decision of the

Apex Court in the case of Chairman, All India Railway

Recruitment Board and Another vs. K. Shyam Kumar and

others6, in particular paragraphs 45 and 46 thereof, to contend

that the decision-maker can rely on subsequent material to

support the decision already taken when larger public interest is

involved. There can be no quarrel with this proposition. In fact,

even this principle has been applied by the Division Bench of

this Court in the case of Ku. Pratibha Singh (supra). However,

in the present case, it is noticed that VYAPAM has not

independently dealt with the entire matter but has merely 6 (2010) 6 SCC 614 24 followed the recommendation made by the Investigating

Agency without doing anything more. That position is

discerned from the communications exchanged between

VYAPAM and STF as also from the internal note-sheets on

which reliance was placed by the respondents. 24. The respondents have then relied on the

observations of the Apex Court in paragraph 8 in the case of B.

Ramanjini and others vs. State of A.P. and others7, which dealt

with the issue of mass copying or leakage of question paper.

The observations in this judgment may be useful during the

independent inquiry to be conducted by VYAPAM before

taking any final decision. Reliance was then placed on the

decision in the case of Biswa Ranjan Sahoo and others vs.

Sushanta Kumar Dinda and others8. In paragraph 3 of this

judgment the Court after taking into account the factual

position, opined that it was a case of enormity of mass

malpractices in the selection process and therefore, issuance of

individual notices to all the candidates was not necessary. 25. In the case of State of Maharashtra and others vs.

Jalgaon Municipal Council and others , (2003) 9 SCC 731, the

Court dealt with the issue of basic principles to be adhered to 7 (2002) 5 SCC 533 8 (1996) 5 SCC 365 25 for complying with the doctrine of natural justice and the

 excepted situations where a right of hearing has been excluded.

 For the reasons already noted, it is unnecessary to dilate on this

 decision any further. 26. Taking over all view of the matter, therefore, we

 have no hesitation in quashing and setting aside the impugned

 common order dated 13.06.2014 passed by VYAPAM and also

 direct the respondents not to give effect to the said order against

 the petitioners. At the same time, VYAPAM is granted liberty to

 commence independent inquiry on the basis of information

 received from the Investigating Agency (Special Task Force)

 and to proceed in the matter on the basis of the view formed in

 that inquiry. That inquiry will have to proceed on its own merits

 and in accordance with law. All questions in that behalf are left

 open. 27. Accordingly, all these writ petitions succeed and are

 disposed of on the aforestated terms with no order as to costs.

 With the disposal of these petitions all interim applications

 stand disposed of.