1. The Applicant has approached this Court, seeking
 anticipatory bail in connection with Crime No.453/2025 registered
 with Ambad Police Station, District Jalna for the offences
 punishable under Sections 316(4), 316(5), 318(4), 324(5), 336(3),
 338, 340(2), 339, 238 r/w 3(5) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023
 and Sections 52 and 53 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. 2. The First Information Report was filed by one Vilas
 Komatwar, stating that he had received a letter from the Sub
 Divisional Officer, Ambad, dated 18.08.2025. The letter informed
 him that the Three-Member Committee had submitted a report
 2 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

regarding the natural calamity compensation disbursement fraud
committed by accused persons at Ambad and Ghansavangi Taluka,
and authorized him to register an FIR against those found
responsible in the said report. 3. It is alleged that the State Government declared
compensation for farmers whose agricultural fields were affected by
natural calamities during the years 2022, 2023, and 2024,
including floods, heavy rainfall, unseasonal rainfall, drought, etc.,
to be disbursed to the affected farmers. Several complaints were
received at the Collector Office, Jalna, pertaining to the
disbursement of natural calamity compensation at the Tahsil Offices
of Ambad and Ghansavangi. The complaints mentioned the role of
the Village Revenue Officer, Gram Sevak, and Agricultural
Assistant, who allegedly colluded with each other to disburse
compensation to bogus farmers who were not eligible for such
benefits. In some cases, compensation was disbursed to farmers
who were not residents of the village, including villagers from
other Talukas and Districts. Agricultural fields of lesser
measurement were shown with inflated areas by forging the 7/12
extracts and by falsely showing fruit-bearing trees on barren land.
Some beneficiaries were allotted compensation twice. Taking into
consideration the aforesaid complaints, the Collector, Jalna, under
his supervision, formed a Three-Member Committee on 28.01.2025. 3 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

The said Committee conducted a detailed inquiry into the
complaints and submitted its report. In the FIR, 22 persons were
named, along with certain other unnamed persons who had acted
in collusion and misused the login ID of the Tahsildar and
committed fraud/misappropriation by disbursing compensation to
persons not entitled to receive the same. In some cases, even
Government lands were wrongly shown in forged 7/12 extracts of
villagers, thereby obtaining disaster relief compensation through
conspiracy by all the accused persons acting together thereby
cheating the Government. . Apart from the aforesaid two talukas, Ambad and
Ghansavangi, six Revenue Officers of the Tahsil Office, Ambad,
were also named who have colluded with the Village Revenue
Officer/Talathi and certain bogus beneficiaries, conspiring to
commit misappropriation with the intention of causing wrongful
loss to the Government and wrongful gain to themselves, thereby
cheating the Government. One of the Revenue Officers in the
Collector Office, Jalna, namely Mr. Dinesh Barad, was held
responsible for misusing the login ID and password of the
Tahsildar, Ambad. He allegedly connived with the other accused
persons and further provoked and instigated them to commit the
said crime. It is also alleged in the FIR that after getting
knowledge that an inquiry was being conducted into the fraud
committed in the disbursement of natural calamity compensation,
 4 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

the accused persons destroyed the necessary evidence and the files
in the computers maintained by the Officers were deleted, which
could have assisted to prove their guilt. The three email ID's of
the Tahasil Office namely [email protected] ; [email protected] and [email protected] were tampered
with by all accused persons and thereafter the evidence were
destroyed. . Thus the aforesaid 28 persons and others are found to
have committed the misappropriation to the tune of
Rs.24,90,77,811/- by forging the documents and cheating the
Government and thereafter destroying the evidence. The
complainant therefore prayed for appropriate action against all the
accused persons. Thus the present FIR alleges that the
Talathis/Revenue Officers, Gram Sevaks, and Agricultural Assistants
caused wrongful loss to the Government and wrongful gain to
themselves by fabricating certain documents, inserting bogus names
of farmers, and disbursing compensation amounts to such bogus
farmers. The FIR further alleges that compensation was transferred
to fake and ineligible beneficiaries. 4. Heard the learned Counsel Mr. Biradar alongwith Assisting
Counsel and the learned Government Pleader Mr. Girase. I have
gone through the documents relied upon by the learned Counsel
for the Applicant and also gone through the investigation papers
 5 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

made available by the learned Government Pleader. 5. The learned Counsel Mr. Suryawanshi for the Applicant
submits that this Court vide its order dated 20.09.2025 was pleased
to grant ad-interim bail to the present Applicant. The learned
Counsel submits that the Applicant is falsely implicated in the
present crime. The Applicant was working as Talathi and that the
Government Resolutions dated 17.11.2022, 24.01.2023 and
29.02.2024 for grant of compensation to the farmers who were
affected due to natural calamity. The entire scheme was to be
executed by the concerned Tahsildar and the Applicant alongwith
other officers like Gram Sevak and Agricultural Assistant were only
given the responsibility of preparing a list which could be then
verified by the higher officers. The technical glitches and some
errors are bound to appear when such huge schemes are
implemented. The rectification method was also provided in the
Government Resolution and the Tahsildar was the authority to
rectify the mistake if any which had occurred. There is no
deliberate act on the part of the Applicant to cheat or commit
criminal breach of trust. The amounts are directly transferred in
the account of the beneficiaries and Inquiry nowhere shows that
the Applicant is beneciary of any amount of compensation. The
complaint is filed belatedly after period of two months of receiving
of the Three Member Committee's report. The amounts have been
 6 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

recovered after issuance of show cause notice to the Applicant and
thus nothing remains to be recovered as the entire amount is
already recovered before registration of the FIR. The Applicant has
not violated any conditions of the interim order. The Investigating
Officer did not issue any notice for appearance to the Applicant
and as such the interim order dated 20.09.2025 may be confirmed.
It is almost a settled law that the bail is the rule and jail is the
exception, and as such, unless an extreme case for custody is made
out, the Applicant can be released on bail. The Applicant is a
Government Servant, not a flight risk, and there is no possibility of
his fleeing from the ends of justice. The Applicant is a responsible
Government Officer and is ready to cooperate with the
investigation. The custodial interrogation of the Applicant is not
necessary, and therefore the Applicant may be released on bail. 6. As against this, the learned Government Pleader
vehemently opposes the application on the ground that the
Applicant was working as Talathi and was incharge of various
villages for preparing the list of the beneficiaries so that the
amount of compensation can be transferred in their account for
having incurred damages to their crops. The investigation shows
that the Applicant has forwarded the list of additional beneficiaries,
on a Whatsapp to the concerned officials i.e. Sushil Jadhav. It is
submitted that the amount of Rs. 33,16,572/- is misappropriated,
 7 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

till date as found in the investigation. The Applicant though has
assisted the Inquiry Committee to recover an amount of Rs.
12,81,736/-, however still the huge amount of Rs.13,73,040/- is yet
to be recovered. The Applicant if released on bail, may cause
prejudice to the prosecution and the investigation.
. It is further submitted by the learned Government Pleader
that the Inquiry Committee Report records that the accused has
embezzled government funds to the tune of Rs.25.40 lakhs, out of
which only Rs.12.81 lakhs have been deposited, leaving a
substantial amount unaccounted for.The investigation reveals that
the accused deliberately included names of persons/
relatives/acquaintances who were neither residents of the concerned
villages nor owners of agricultural land, thereby rendering them
ineligible beneficiaries. Witness statements of Jagannath Uttam
Randhe, Bhausaheb Kanta Uddange, Ganesh Bhagwanrao Uddange ,
Baliram Bhagwan Uddange and Krishna Vishnu Uddange clearly
establish that amounts were credited in their names despite the
absence of any agricultural landholding, corroborating the
allegation of preparation of bogus beneficiary lists. Further, Gram
Panchayat certificates categorically certify that 28 persons from
Chandanapuri Khurd, 20 persons from Bhamberi, 11 persons from
Dahyala, and 34 persons from Chandanapuri Budruk and Renapuri
are not residents of the respective villages yet amounts aggregating
to several lakhs were credited in their names. This documentary
 8 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

evidence lends strong support to the prosecution case that the
accused misused his official position to siphon off public funds. It
is also borne out from the investigation of Revenue Assistant Sushil
Jadhav, who was previously arrested, that the applicant-accused
had sent as many as six lists of bogus account holders through
WhatsApp, instead of following the prescribed official email
procedure, indicating conscious deviation from lawful process and
active participation in the conspiracy. Significantly, when called
upon by the inquiry committee to disclose details of bogus
beneficiaries, the accused failed to reveal their identities and
instead produced certificates claiming repayment, thereby
obstructing effective investigation. The investigation further
discloses that the accused, with the assistance of agents, used
Aadhaar cards and bank passbooks of labourers and unemployed
persons, luring them with money, which points towards systematic
and organised misuse of public welfare schemes.
. It is further submitted by the learned Government Pleader
that the record further reflects that although the accused was
granted interim protection, he has not cooperated with the
investigation, which reinforces the prosecution's apprehension that
custodial interrogation is necessary to trace beneficiaries, recover
digital evidence, and unearth the larger conspiracy. 7. After having considered the submissions made by the
 9 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

learned Counsel for the Applicant and the learned Government
Pleader and going through the investigation papers, it is found that
the Applicant was working as Talathi for Chandanapuri Khurd,
Chandanapuri Budruk, Bhamberi and Dahyala under Ambad Tahsil.
The perusal of the investigation papers shows that the Investigating
Officer has recorded the statements of Jagannath and Uddhange
family who have specifically named the present Applicant to have
insisted them to provide the necessary documents for obtaining
compensation and asked them to share with him the majority of
the amount of compensation so received, as they were fake
beneficiaries. Upon the insistence of the Applicant, who was
working as Talathi, the villagers provided their documents, and
thus the role of the Applicant appears to be that of one of the
prime suspects who has conspired along with other officers at the
Tahsil office, in charge of uploading the list. The Applicant, in
connivance with other accused persons, misused the login ID of the
Tahsildar and uploaded fake residence certificates, 7/12 extracts,
mobile numbers, and Aadhaar card numbers. The Gram Panchayat
of the villages has issued certificates stating that the fake
beneficiaries were not residents of the said villages.
. It is further revealed that even though the interim relief
was granted to the Applicant, the Applicant has failed to attend
the police station and despite of various calls made by the police
station officers. The Applicant was called upon by the Investigating
 10 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

Officer to attend the police station, however the Applicant did not
attend the police station, Ambad for investigation. Accordingly, the
Investigating Officer has taken station diary entry vide entry
no.13/2025 dated 01.10.2025 at 13:58 hours in the station diary
maintained with police station, Ambad. 8. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan
Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC 439 and

in the case of Tarunkumar Vs. Assistant Director Directorate of
Enforcement, 2023 NSC 1006, was pleased to hold that the
economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited
with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic
offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of
public funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as a grave
offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole and
thereby posing serious threat to the financial health of the country. 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Nimmagadda
Prasad vs C.B.I., Hyderabad , (2013) 7 SCC 466, has held as under : 10. The Applicant in connivance with all other accused
persons has allegedly committed the misappropriation to the tune
of Rs.25 Crores by using login ID of Tahsildar with the assistance
of other accused persons. The statements recorded by the
Investigating Officer during the course of investigation reveals the
role of the present Applicant to be a prime suspect in the crime.
The custodial interrogation of the Applicant would be thus
necessary. Some of the amount initially shown as misappropriated
by the Inquiry Committee has been allegedly recovered by the
Applicant. However the investigation shows that the amount of
misappropriation is likely to increase as the investigation is still
going and the statements of the bogus farmers are being recorded.
Thus there is every likelihood that the Applicant if released on
bail, may cause prejudice to the investigation.
. Thus taking into consideration the gravity and nature of
economic offence, the Three Member Committee's report and the
investigation papers which include statements of various
beneficiaries, I am not inclined to exercise the discretion in favour
 12 7.ABA-1652-2025.doc

of the present Applicant to grant anticipatory bail. The application
is therefore rejected. MEHROZ K. PATHAN
 JUDGE 11. After pronouncement of the order rejecting the
application, the learned Counsel for the Applicant Mr. Tapse
submitted that the Applicant was granted interim protection by this
Court, hence, the interim protection may be continued for a period
of four weeks further to take appropriate steps. 12. The learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. A.B. Girase, strongly
opposes to grant of any such prayer for continuation of the interim
relief. 13. This Court has already observed in the accompanying
order that the Applicant failed to co-operate with the investigation.
Taking into consideration the gravity of offence, the request made
by the Applicant is hereby rejected. MEHROZ K. PATHAN
 JUDGE

Najeeb..