The petitioners before this court have filed this present
petition stating that the petitioner No.1 is mother of one Jitendra
Soni. The petitioner No.2 is wife of one Jitendra Soni and the
petitioner No.3 is also a relative. It has been stated by the
petitioners that the son of the petitioner No.1 Jitendra Soni, who
is an honest Journalist has handed over a hard disk containing 64
GB data relating to "Honey Trap Scandal" to this court and on
account of the aforesaid act Jitendra Soni is being harassed by
the State of Madhya Pradesh and as many as forty five FIRs
(First Information Report) have been registered against the
family. It has been stated that the respondents State has
registered about forty five FIRs, has demolished the house of the
Jitendra Soni. Various other buildings belonging to Jitendra
Soni have been demolished and as the State is proceeding ahead
against Jitendra Soni and his family, the family should be
provided protection by deploying para military forces such as
CRPF, ITBP/CISF. Further prayer has been made for issuance
of an appropriate writ, order or direction, not to register any
criminal case against the petitioners or their family members. The petitioners have prayed for the following reliefs :- To direct the respondent (State of MP.) to not take
 any coercive steps or measure against the petitioners and
 their family members in around 40 cases registered against
 them from 01-12-2019 till date; d) To direct respondent (State of Madhya Pradesh) to
 not register any fresh case or proceeding against the
 petitioners and their family members and Shri Mahendra
 Soni or their companies without the leave of this Hon'ble
 Court. e) Any other or further reliefs that this Hon'ble court
 may deem fit in the facts and circumstances of the case." Learned Additional Advocate General on advance notice
has argued before this court that in a Public Interest Litigation
i.e WP No. 20136/2019 (Digvijay Singh Bhandari Vs. Sate of
M.P. and others) a hard disk has been brought on record by the
petitioner therein and merely because it is alleged that the same
was supplied by Jitendra Soni as stated in the present writ
petition it does not mean that Mr Jitendra Soni is being
victimized. It has got no nexus with the crimes committed by
Jitendra Soni. He has further argued that so far a registration of
FIRs is concerned they are all relating to the criminal cases for
committing heinous offences and the Cr.P.C ( Code of Criminal
Procedure ) provides for a complete mechanism in case a F.I.R is
registered against any individual. He has also informed this
court that the son of the petitioner No.1 is absconding and a
reward of Rs. One lac has been declared and till date the police 3 WP No. 28381/2019 has not been able to arrest him as he is still absconding. It has
also been stated that the illegal structures which were contrary to
the sanctioned layouts, constructed without sanctioned layout or
constructed over the Government land have been demolished,
after following the due process of law and the petitioners shall
certainly be free to take recourse of remedy available under the
law in case they are aggrieved by the demolition of the
structures. It is also been stated that the question of deploying
Paramilitary forces for protection of the family does not arise.
However, the State shall be taking all proper steps for protection
of the family in case any family member approaches them for
such protection. He has also argued that Code of Criminal
Procedure does not provide for a pre-hearing in the matter of
registration of FIR and no such blanket order can be passed
restraining the State of Madhya Pradesh from registering any
fresh case even though crime has been committed by Jitendra
Soni or Mahendra Soni or any other member of the family. He
has prayed for summary dismissal of the present writ petition. This court has carefully gone through the writ petition
filed by the petitioners. Petitioners as stated in the writ petition
are being victimized on account of the fact that the son of the
petitioner No.1, namely Jitendra Soni has handed over a hard
disk relating to a crime registered by Indore Police (Honey
Trap) Case. So far as criminal cases are concerned relating to
"Honey Trap" there is already a Public Interest Litigation i.e
WP No. 20136/2019 (Digvijay Singh Bhandari Vs. Sate of M.P.
and others) and the State of Madhya Pradesh has constituted SIT 4 WP No. 28381/2019 for investigation of the matter. Even this court is monitoring the
investigation and the progress of the case and various interim
orders have been passed from time to time. It is true that a Hard
Disk was brought on record by the petitioner therein, namely
Mr Digvijay Singh Bhandari, but the fact is that the hard disk
which was received in sealed cover was immediately forwarded
to the Regional Forensic Lab, Hyderabad. State Government is
not in possession of the hard disk. So far as criminal cases are concerned, it is true that a
large number of cases have been registered against Mr Jitendra
Soni and other persons. However, there are separate FIRs and
there is a complete mechanism provided for investigation under
the Code of Criminal Procedure . Merely because there are large
number of cases it does not mean that SIT should be constituted
as prayed for. Prayer has been made for issuance of direction to
the State Government not to register any case against the
petitioners or family members without leave of this court. Code
of Criminal Procedure does not provide for such a procedure.
There is no such concept of like grant of anticipatory bail so far
as registration of F.I.R is concerned. Once the first information
report is lodged, the person aggrieved does have a remedy as
provided under the Code of Criminal Procedure . The
prosecuting agency is certainly competent to investigate the
matter keeping in view the statutory provisions as contained
under the Code of Criminal Procedure . So far as grant of
protection by CRPF, CISF or ITBP is concerned, learned
Additional Advocate General has already assured this court that
in case there is any threat of life or any other kind of threat and 5 WP No. 28381/2019 an application is received, the State Government shall be taking
action in accordance with law as it is the duty of the State to
ensure that its Citizens live in a peaceful atmosphere in the
State, without any threat of any kind. Much has been argued by Mr Ajay Bagadiya, learned
counsel for the petitioners for restraining the State from taking
coercive action against the petitioners and against family
members. The State Government is certainly free to take all
such steps which are permissible under the law in case a person
is absconding and therefore the State Government shall be free
to take appropriate steps in accordance with law keeping in view
the statutory provisions governing the field. The grievance of
the petitioners in respect of demolition of certain structures of
the petitioners is concerned, the petitioners shall certainly be at a
liberty to avail the appropriate remedy available under the law. With the aforesaid, admission is declined. Certified copy as per rules. (S.C. SHARMA)
 JUDGE

Rashmi Digitally signed by Rashmi Prashant Date: 2020.01.13 15:13:52 +05'30'