Aggrieved by the acquittal of the respondent for the

 commission of offence punishable under Sections 363 , 366 , 376 of the Indian Penal Code read with Section 6 of the

 Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 3(2)(v) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

 (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, the State has filed the

 instant application for grant of leave to appeal. 2. As per case of the prosecution, the respondent

 made a telephonic call to the prosecutrix on 14.10.2017 at

 about 9.10 p.m., asking her to accompany him and solemnize
1 Whether the reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 marriage, lest he ends up his life committing suicide. The

 prosecutrix met the respondent on the road along-with her

 testimonials, clothes and an amount of Rs.15,500/-. The

 . respondent picked her up in his father's car. The prosecutrix

 stayed with the respondent and on 16.10.2017, they proceeded

 to Manali and stayed with one 'SM'. On 17.10.2017, the

 respondent asked the prosecutrix to perform marriage and

 thereafter allegedly committed sexual intercourse with her

 uptill 25.10.2017. 3. On 27.10.2017, both the respondent and the

 prosecutrix reached Bilaspur. The respondent left her at the

 bus stand and allegedly disappeared, so prosecutrix was forced

 to board a bus back to Manali on 28.10.2017, where she again

 went to the house of 'SM'. The said 'SM' thereupon informed

 PW-2, the father of the prosecutrix, who then, came along-with

 the police and took the prosecutrix back. In the meanwhile,

 PW-2 had already lodged a written complaint Ext.PW-2/A on

 15.10.2017 itself, based on which FIR came to be registered. The police tried to procure the CDRs of the phone of the

 prosecutrix and the respondent. The Investigating Officer SI

 Prabhakar Ram (PW-36) procured the date of birth certificates

 of the prosecutrix vide Ext.PW-12/A and from Nagar Parishad

 vide Ext.PW-9/A, on the basis of which, it was found that the ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2024 20:30:21 :::CIS 3 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 prosecutrix was born on 03.07.2000. Copy of the parivar

 register along-with pedigree table was also prepared. 4. On the identification of the prosecutrix, the spot

 . map Ext.P-4/PW-36, purportedly the house of 'SM' was

 prepared. The photographs of the spot were also clicked. Thereafter, the bed sheet and jeans (trouser) were recovered

 and taken into possession. The preserves collected by the

 doctors were sent to FSL and result thereof was received vide

 Ext.PW-1/C. The report of DNA profiling Ext.PW-34/A was also

 collected. PW-1 the doctor who examined the prosecutrix

 opined that the possibility of sexual intercourse cannot be

 ruled-out. 5. On the charges having been framed, the accused

 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The prosecution in order

 to prove its case has examined as many as 36 witnesses. 6. The statement of accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C

 was recorded, in which, he denied the case of the prosecution. However, no defence evidence was led by him. 7. At the outset, we may observe that the prosecutrix,

 in the instant case was more than 17 years of age as on the

 date of alleged offence and now has got married with the

 accused and they are blessed with a daughter and are happily ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2024 20:30:21 :::CIS 4 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 residing together. Secondly, it is the appeal of the State that

 has been preferred against the order of acquittal. 8. It is well settled by the Hon'ble Apex Court in a

 . catena of decisions that an Appellate Court has full power to

 review, re-appreciate and reconsider the evidence upon which

 the order of acquittal is founded. However, Appellate Court

 must bear in mind that in case of acquittal there is double

 presumption in favour of the accused. Firstly, the presumption

 of innocence is available to him under the fundamental

 principle of criminal jurisprudence that every person shall be

 presumed to be innocent unless he is proved guilty by a

 competent Court of law. Secondly, the accused having secured

 his acquittal, the presumption of his innocence is further

 reinforced, reaffirmed and strengthened by the trial Court. Further, if two reasonable views are possible on the basis of the

 evidence on record, the Appellate Court should not disturb the

 finding of acquittal recorded by the trial Court. 9. The scope of power of appellate court in case of

 appeal against acquittal has been dealt with by the Hon'ble

 Apex Court in case titled Muralidhar alias Gidda & another

 vs. State of Karnatka reported in (2014)5 SCC 730, which

 read as under :- "10. Lord Russell in Sheo Swarup[1], highlighted
 the approach of the High Court as an appellate ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2024 20:30:21 :::CIS 5 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 court hearing the appeal against acquittal. Lord
 Russell said, "... the High Court should and will
 always give proper weight and consideration to
 such matters as (1) the views of the trial Judge
 as to the credibility of the witnesses; (2) the
 presumption of innocence in favour of the

 . accused, a presumption certainly not weakened

 by the fact that he has been acquitted at his trial;
 (3) the right of the accused to the benefit of any
 doubt; and (4) the slowness of an appellate court
 in disturbing a finding of fact arrived at by a

 Judge who had the advantage of seeing the
 witnesses." The opinion of the Lord Russell has
 been followed over the years. 11. As early as in 1952, this Court in Surajpal

 Singh[2] while dealing with the powers of the
 High Court in an appeal against acquittal under Section 417 of the Criminal Procedure Code
 observed,

 "7...........the High Court has full power to
 review the evidence upon which the order

 of acquittal was founded, but it is equally
 well settled that the presumption of
 innocence of the accused is further
 reinforced by his acquittal by the trial
 court, and the findings of the trial court

 which had the advantage of seeing the
 witnesses and hearing their evidence can
 be reversed only for very substantial and
 compelling reasons. 12. The approach of the appellate court in the appeal
 against acquittal has been dealt with by this

 Court in Tulsiram Kanu[3], Madan Mohan
 Singh[4], Atley[5] , Aher Raja Khima[6], Balbir
 Singh[7], M.G. Agarwal[8], Noor Khan[9], Khedu

 Mohton[10], Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade[11], Lekha
 Yadav[12], Khem Karan[13], Bishan Singh[14],
 Umedbhai Jadavbhai[15], K. Gopal Reddy[16],
 Tota Singh[17], Ram Kumar[18], Madan Lal[19],
 Sambasivan[20], Bhagwan Singh[21], Harijana
 Thirupala[22], C. Antony[23], K.
 Gopalakrishna[24], Sanjay Thakran[25] and
 Chandrappa[26]. It is not necessary to deal with
 these cases individually. Suffice it to say that
 this Court has consistently held that in dealing
 with appeals against acquittal, the appellate
 court must bear in mind the following: (ii) The accused person is entitled to the
 benefit of reasonable doubt when it deals
 with the merit of the appeal against

 . acquittal, (iii) Though, the power of the appellate court in
 considering the appeals against acquittal
 are as extensive as its powers in appeals

 against convictions but the appellate court
 is generally loath in disturbing the finding
 of fact recorded by the trial court. It is so
 because the trial court had an advantage
 of seeing the demeanor of the witnesses. If

 the trial court takes a reasonable view of
 the facts of the case, interference by the
 appellate court with the judgment of
 acquittal is not justified. Unless, the conclusions reached by the
 trial court are palpably wrong or based on

 erroneous view of the law or if such
 conclusions are allowed to stand, they are
 likely to result in grave injustice, the
 reluctance on the part of the appellate
 court in interfering with such conclusions

 is fully justified, and (iv) Merely because the appellate court on re- appreciation and re-evaluation of the

 evidence is inclined to take a different
 view, interference with the judgment of
 acquittal is not justified if the view taken

 by the trial court is a possible view. The
 evenly balanced views of the evidence
 must not result in the interference by the

 appellate court in the judgment of the trial
 court." 10. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rajesh Prasad vs.

 State of Bihar & another , (2022) 3 Supreme Court Cases

 471, observed as under: perverse approach to the facts of the case,

 ignoring some of the most vital facts, has
 acquitted the accused, that the same may be
 reversed by this Court, exercising jurisdiction
 under Article 136 of the Constitution. [ State of

 U.P. v. Sahai (1982) 1 SCC 352] Such fetters on
 the right to entertain an appeal are prompted by
 the reluctance to expose a person, who has been
 acquitted by a competent court of a criminal
 charge, to the anxiety and tension of a further

 examination of the case, even though it is held
 by a superior court. [Arunchalam v. P.S.R.
 Sadhanantham (1979) 2 SCC 297] An appeal
 cannot be entertained against an order of
 acquittal which has, after recording valid and

 weighty reasons, has arrived at an unassailable,
 logical conclusion which justifies acquittal. [ State

 of Haryana vs. Lakhbir 1991 Supp (1) SCC 35

 31.2. However, this Court has on certain occasions, set
 aside the order of acquittal passed by a High
 Court. The circumstances under which this

 Court may entertain an appeal against an order
 of acquittal and pass an order of conviction, may
 be summarized as follows: (a) Where incontrovertible evidence has been
 rejected by the High Court based on suspicion
 and surmises, which are rather unrealistic. [ State of Rajasthan v. Sukhpal Singh (1983) 1
 SCC 393] For example, where direct,
 unanimous accounts of the eyewitnesses,
 were discounted without cogent reasoning. [ State of U.P. vs. Shanker 1980 Supp SCC
 489] (b) Where the intrinsic merits of the testimony of
 relatives, living in the same house as the
 victim, were discounted on the ground that
 they were "interested" witnesses. [ State of
 U.P. v. Hakim Singh (1980) (c) Where testimony of witnesses had been
 disbelieved by the High Court, on an
 unrealistic conjecture of personal motive on
 the part of witnesses to implicate the
 accused, when in fact, the witnesses had no ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2024 20:30:21 :::CIS 8 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 axe to grind in the said matter. [ State of
 Rajasthan v. Sukhpal Singh (1983) 1 SCC
 393] (d) Where dying declaration of the deceased
 victim was rejected by the High Court on an
 irrelevant ground that they did not explain

 . the injury found on one of the persons

 present at the site of occurrence of the crime.
 [ Arunachalam vs. P.S.R. Sadhanantham (1979) 2 SCC 297] (e) Where the High Court applied an unrealistic

 standard of "implicit proof" rather than that of
 "proof beyond reasonable doubt" and
 therefore evaluated the evidence in a flawed
 manner. [ State of U.P. v. Ranjha Ram (1986)
 4 SCC 99] Where the High Court applied an

 unrealistic standard of "implicit proof" rather
 than that of "proof beyond reasonable doubt" Pheru Singh 1989 Supp (1) SCC] or based on
 extenuating circumstances which were purely
 based in imagination and fantasy [ State of
 U.P. v. Pussu (1983) 3 SCC 502] (b) Where the accused had been acquitted on
 ground of delay in conducting trial, which
 delay was attributable not to the tardiness or
 indifference of the prosecuting agencies, but
 to the conduct of the accused himself; or
 where accused had been acquitted on ground
 of delay in conducting trial relating to an
 offence which is not of a trivial nature. [State ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2024 20:30:21 :::CIS 9 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 of Maharashtra v. Champalal Punjaji Shah
 (1981) 3 SCC 610]" 10 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 of the accused was proved beyond a reasonable
 doubt and no other conclusion was possible. 9. Normally, when an appellate court exercises
 appellate jurisdiction, the duty of the appellate
 court is to find out whether the verdict which is

 . under challenge is correct or incorrect in law and

 on facts. The appellate court normally ascertains
 whether the decision under challenge is legal or
 illegal. But while dealing with an appeal against
 acquittal, the appellate court cannot examine the

 impugned judgment only to find out whether the
 view taken was correct or incorrect. After
 reappreciating the oral and documentary
 evidence, the appellate court must first decide
 whether the trial court's view was a possible

 view. The appellate court cannot overturn
 acquittal only on the ground that after
 reappreciating evidence, it is of the view that the
 guilt of the accused was established beyond a
 reasonable doubt. Only recording such a

 conclusion an order of acquittal cannot be
 reversed unless the appellate court also

 concludes that it was the only possible
 conclusion. Thus, the appellate court must see
 whether the view taken by the trial court while
 acquitting an accused can be reasonably taken
 on the basis of the evidence on record. If the

 view taken by the trial court is a possible view,
 the appellate court cannot interfere with the
 order of acquittal on the ground that another
 view could have been taken." 12. Thus, the law on the issue can be summarized to

 the effect that in exceptional cases where there are

 compelling circumstances, and the judgment under appeal is

 found to be perverse, the appellate court can interfere with

 the order of acquittal. Further, if two views were possible on

 the basis of the evidence on record, the Appellate Court

 should not disturb the finding of acquittal recorded by the

 Trial Court, merely, because the Appellate Court could have

 arrived at a different conclusion than that of the Trial Court. 11 ( 2024:HHC:5102 ) 13. By applying the aforesaid principles to the case in

 hand and also bearing in mind that the prosecutrix and

 respondent have not only solemnized marriage, but also have

 . daughter out of this wed-lock, we are of the considered

 opinion, that the prosecution has not been able to establish

 its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The

 'SM' could have been the best witness to have supported the

 case of the prosecution. But, unfortunately, she was never

 examined by the prosecution, in this case. circumstances, this Court has no option but to draw an

 adverse inference against the prosecution. 14. Apart from the above, the prosecutrix herself has

 not supported the case of the prosecution and has clearly

 admitted that she had married the respondent and has a three

 years old daughter out of this wedlock. Obviously, in such

 circumstances, there was no occasion for the State in fact to

 file the present appeal as once it has come on record that the

 prosecutrix is living happy married life with the respondent,

 then, this Court cannot shut its eyes to the ground reality and

 disturb the happy family life of the appellant and the

 prosecutrix. 12 ( 2024:HHC:5102 ) 15. In taking this view, we are duly supported by the

 judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in K.

 Dhandapani vs. The State by the Inspector of Police . (Criminal Appeal No. 796 of 2022), decided on 9th May, 2022. 16. Further, having regard to the fact that the marriage

 between the appellant and the prosecutrix stands solemnized

 and out of this wedlock, they have a three years old daughter,

 it will be extremely harsh and totally unwarranted upon the

 child in case her father is labelled as a criminal only because

 he wanted to and did get married with the prosecutrix. 17. This Court in plethora of cases has come across the

 issues where FIRs are registered with any rhyme or reason or

 out of knee jerk reactions and the proceedings are ultimately

 quashed by the Court in exercise of jurisdiction under Section

 482 Cr.P.C. We, therefore, are of the considered view that after

 the accused gets blame-free by a process of law, the

 respondent cannot be seen to be carrying sword of his being

 accused for all his life. Right to oblivion; right to be forgotten

 are the principles evolved by the democratic nations, as one of

 the facets of right to information privacy. The rights have been

 evolved in the countries like France and Italy way back in the

 19th century. 13 ( 2024:HHC:5102 ) 18. The vital principle which has evolved from time to

 time has now become an integral part and recognized as a part

 of right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. . Recognizing this right, as a facet of privacy, the three Judge

 Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Justice K. S. Puttaswamy

 vs. Union of India , 2017)10 SCC 1, observed as follows:- 19. The Hon'ble Apex Court in a case concerning

 squabble between husband and wife, wherein the High Court

 had rejected the plea of the parties therein to mask their

 names, directed the High Court to evolve methodology for

 masking the names of both the accused and the victim. The

 order passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in case XXXXX vs.

 YYYY2 2022 SSC online SC, neutral citation 2024 KHC: 14572,

 on dated 18.07.2022 reads as follows:- petitioner and respondent No.1 along with address details

 can be masked so that they do not appear visible for any
 search engine. iv) The IA and the Miscellaneous Application accordingly stand
 disposed of. v) The needful be done within three weeks from today by the
 Registry." 20. Thus, there can be no dispute that right of privacy

 of which the right to be forgotten and the right to be left alone

 are inherent aspects. Once that be so, obviously, the names of

 the prosecutrix as also the appellant need to be

 masked/erased so that they do not appear/visible in any

 search engine, least the same is likely to jeopardize and cause

 irreparable hardship, prejudice etc., not only to the respondent

 and the prosecutrix, but to their little daughter in their day-to- day life, career prospects etc. etc. 21. Article 21 of the Constitution of India mandates

 that no person shall be deprived of his life or liberty except in

 accordance with law. It is more than settled that the

 expression 'life' cannot be seem to connote a mere animal

 existence it has a much wider meaning. It takes within its

 sweep right to live with dignity. In the crime, once the accused

 gets acquitted/honorably discharged by a competent Court of ::: Downloaded on - 15/07/2024 20:30:21 :::CIS 16 ( 2024:HHC:5102 )

 law or this Court, and the order becomes final, the shadow of

 crime, if permitted to continue and substitute its place for the

 shadow of dignity on any citizen, it would be a travesty of the

 . concept of life under Article 21. Every person has a right to live

 with dignity. 22. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we not only do

 not find any merit in the instant application and accordingly

 reject the application for grant of leave to appeal, but also

 direct masking the names of the appellant and the prosecutrix

 from the data base of the learned Special Judge, Bilaspur and

 further direct the Registrar General of this Court to mask the

 names of the appellant in the digital records, pertaining to the

 instant appeal. 23. Records be sent down.