SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: WhatsApp forward over 8 year old Asifa
DATE: 2018-04-19
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/8df0ip/whatsapp_forward_over_8_year_old_asifa/

--- POST TEXT ---

In the 2009 movie Lovely Bones, a 14 yr old girl who is murdered by her next door neighbor watches over her family in spirit and guides them to her murderer. So here's 8-year old Asifa Bhanu guiding us to her murderers. Let us all pursue this and ask questions till the cows come home (horses in this case):

1. Why is media not letting out that I’m a Hindu girl by birth? Or that my biological parents were murdered over a property dispute? Or that my present parents are actually my adoptive parents? Or that my biological parents’ properties were bequeathed to me? Or that a week before my death my uncle and adoptive parents had a massive showdown over property?

2. Why is media not letting out that my adoptive parents had 2 of their own daughters and both died ‘mysteriously’ in unknown accidents?

3. Why is media not letting out that the said temple where I’m supposed to have been detained and raped over 8 days is a single room temple with 3 doors with 2 of them with broken panes? Or that there are dozens visiting this temple at any given hour? Or that there is no basement in this temple as claimed in police report? Or that on the days I was supposed to have been detained there it was Hindu New year of Makar Sankranthi and hundreds of devotees thronged the temple from morning to night?

4. Why is media showing pictures of my adoptive mother crying over my school uniform? I never went to school.

5. Why is media not letting out that I went missing on 10th Jan afternoon, the horses I took for grazing came back safely on the same day, but my father went to the police only on 12th Jan?

6. Why is media not letting out that the Jammu police report and autopsy clearly ruled out rape? And that autopsy mentioned tufts of hair with wet mud and electrocution which is clearly not possible inside a temple? Or that sedatives apparently used on me were found on some outside road under a garbage heap?

7. Why is media not letting out that despite alleged 8 days of rape inside the temple the police found a single strand of my hair only? And that the entire temple theory hangs on a single strand of my hair?

8. Why is media not letting out that my neighbors are repeatedly stating that my dead body was found in the cattle shed not a temple?

9. Why is media not letting out that youtube has videos of my dead body being freely handled by local journalists and photographers and positioned for photographs when police should have quarantined the area and no one allowed to come near my body, let alone touch except by the forensics team? Even my mother was made to pose next to my dead body!

10. Why is media not letting out that after Jammu police mentioned possible involvement of illegal Rohingya immigrants who have settled in our neighborhood, the case was taken away from them on orders of CMO and handed over to Kashmir valley police team? Or that Jammu has 3 police jurisdictions and yet it was handed over to Kashmir police and members of the new team came from as far as Ladakh? Or that Irfan Wani who headed the Kashmir SIT himself has a murder and rape cases pending on him for last 10 years?

11. Is it true that CM of J&amp;K had awarded Rohingya immigrants ‘tribal’ status thus allowing them free use of forest and fertile land for settlements? And that J&amp;K HC acted on protests of Jammu Hindus and deemed it illegal and restrained her from going ahead? Or that she was preparing to settle them there in violation of HC orders since she had support in the legislative assembly, and that this murder if attributed to Rohingyas could have put a serious spoke in her plans?

12. Why is media not letting out that the 6 arrested include a 60-yr old retd govt servant, 4 Jammu police personnel? And that a 60-yr old father actually called his college going son from Meerut to join him and partake of some paedophile lust? And that the college going son magically covered 500kms in 8 hours for a trip that would normally take 20hrs? Or that the 60-yr old retd govt servant was at the forefront of a campaign against J&amp;K govt against regularizing Rohingyas and exhorting Hindus not to sell their land to Muslims in Kathua for fear of ethnic cleansing as had previously happened in Kashmir with Pandits?

13. Why is media not letting out that Kashmir SIT took over the case and unleashed a reign of terror on residents of our village mostly Hindus, subjected them to 3rd degree torture, picking up anyone in the middle of the night or off the streets and that as a result most Hindu families have started leaving the village out of fear? Or that contrary to media’s assertions that I was murdered to scare the Muslims into leaving, the exact opposite is going on?

14. Why is media not letting out that the ‘MISSING’ ad in newspapers was issued by Kashmir SIT 4 days after my funeral! And why is media saying Hindus didn’t allow my burial, it was Muslims who didn’t allow my burial citing my status as a nomad.

15. Why is media calling Yogi Adityanath, CM of UP corrupt and communal despite him handing over the Unnao rape case to CBI, but is silent on Mehbooba Mufti who first violated Jammu police jurisdictions and is now refusing to hand over case to CBI? Why are people who protested against Mehbooba Mufti and Kashmir police for pre-set, agenda driven &amp; communal probe and for demanding a CBI investigation, called as people supporting &amp; protecting the rapists? Isn’t it the CM and Kashmir police who are actually protecting the real rapists/murderers?

16. Another of my sister Shahbeena Akhtar was raped &amp; murdered last month in a madrasa by the Moulvi himself in Kashmir. There are no doubts in that unlike in my, it is an open and shut case. Why is everyone silent on it? Why?