passed by the Additional Sessions Judge VIII-cum-
Special Judge, C.B.I, Dhanbad in R.C.No.2(E) of 1998 (D).

 Brij Bhushan............... ........Appellant (Cr.App.No.482 of 2007) 1.Aloke Kumar Guha @ A.K.Guha 2.Devendra Kumar Sinha
 @ D.K.Sinha 3. Chandra Mohan Prasad.......Appellants(Cr.App.No.480 of 2007)

 P.C.Manjhi
 @ Prayag Chandra Manjhi..........Appellant(Cr.App.No.508 of 2007)

 Parimal Kumar Banerjee......... Appellant (Cr.App.No.510 of 2007)

 Nemi Chand Jain.................. Appellant (Cr.App.No.746 of 2007)

 VERSUS

 State of Jharkhand through C.B.I................... .......Respondent

 For theAppellant:M/s.B.M.Tripathy,Sr.Advocate(Cr.App.508/07)
 and Sanjay Kumar, Advocate
 For the Appellants:M/s.P.P.N.Rai, Sr.Advocate (Cr.App.480/07)
 and P.K.Deomani,Advocate
 For the Appellant :Mr.Shailesh, Advocate (Cr.App.No.746/07)
 For the Appellant :Mr.Indrajit Sinha, Advocate
 (Cr.App.No.482/07)
 For the Appellant : M/s.Kaushik Sarkhel (Cr.App.No.510/07)
 and Ranjan Kumar, Advocate
 For the C.B.I. : Mr. Mokhtar Khan, Advocate

 P R E S E N T
 THE HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE R. R. PRASAD

R.R.Pd., J. All these appeals arising out of the same judgment

 were heard together and are being disposed of by this

 common judgment. These appeals are directed against the judgment of

 conviction and order of sentence dated 11.4.2007 passed in

 R.C.No.2(E) of 1998(D) whereby and whereunder the

 appellants Brij Bhushan,Aloke Kumar Guha @ A.K.Guha,

 Devendra Kumar Sinha@ D.K.Sinha, Chandra Mohan Prasad,
 P.C.Manjhi@ Prayag Chandra Manjhi and Parimal Kumar

Banerjee were found guilty for the offences under Sections 420

read with Section 120B, 467 read with Section 120B, 468 read

with Section 120B, 471 read with Section 120B, 477A read with

Section 120B and also under Section 13(2) read with Section

13(i)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and were sentenced

to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years for the

offence under Section 467 read with Section 120B and to pay

fine with default clause. Further they were sentenced to

undergo rigorous imprisonment for two years and to pay fine

with default clause for each of the offences under Sections 420

read with Section 120B, 468 read with 120B, 471 read with

Section 120B and 477A read with Section 120B and further to

go rigorous imprisonment for three years for the offence under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(i)(d) of the Prevention of

Corruption Act. All the sentences were ordered to run

concurrently. The appellant Nemi Chand Jain on being found guilty for

the offences under Sections 420 read with Section 120B, 467

read with Section 120B, 468 read with Section 120B, 471 read

with Section 120B was sentenced to undergo rigorous

imprisonment for seven years for the offence under Section 467

read with Section 120B with fine with default clause. Further he

was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for three years with

fine with default clause for each of the offences under Sections

420 read with Section 120B, under Section 468 read with

Section 120B and under Section 471 read with Section 120B of

the Indian Penal Code. All the sentences were ordered to run

concurrently. It is the case of the prosecution that an information was

received by the C.B.I. to the effect that the appellant Nemi
 Chand Jain, Director of M/s.Data Cables Pvt.Ltd. having entered

into a criminal conspiracy with unknown persons cheated State

Bank of India, SIB Branch, Dhanbad fraudulently and

dishonestly by inducing them to deliver to the tune of Rs.1.40

lacks approx. in the matter of discounting of 17 bills of M/s.

Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. raised at BCCL, Dhanbad without actually

supplying the materials. It has been further alleged that M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd.

was enjoying cash credit (bill) limit of Rs.140 lacs with State

Bank of India, SIB Branch, Dhanbad. M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd.

and its Director, appellant, Nemi Chand Jain presented 17 bills

mentioned in the FIR to the bank valued at Rs.2,01,53,981/-

approx. along with forged/fake receipt in token of the delivery

of mining cables to various units of BCCL, Dhanbad. The Bank

believing the aforesaid bills submitted by M/s. Data Cables Pvt.

Ltd. to be genuine, discounted the bills to the extent of 70% of

the face value of the bills and credited the amount to C.C.bills

account of M/s.Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. which was subsequently

withdrawn fraudulently and dishonestly. It has further been alleged that the Bank after

discounting the bills sent the same to BCCL for realization of

the proceeds but BCCL disowned the bills and returned the

same unpaid to the Bank as the materials mentioned in the bills

had not been received at various units of BCCL. Thus, it has

been alleged that the accused persons committed offence

under Sections 420, 467, 471 read with Section 120B of the

Indian Penal Code. On such allegation, a case was registered as R.C No.2(E)

of 1998(D) under Sections 420 , 467 , 471 of the Indian Penal

Code against Nemi Chand Jain, M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd and

unknown persons. When the matter was taken up for investigation by

P.W.18, it was found that the appellant, Nemi Chand Jain was

the Director of the firm, M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. which was

manufacturing cables etc. and was supplying the same to

BCCL. The said appellant, Nemi Chand Jain was enjoying cash,

credit stock facility of Rs.272 lacs and bill credit facility for

Rs.140 lacs in SBI Main Branch since 1991. The Investigating Officer made enquiry over the matter

relating to submission of the bills by M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd.

and mode of payment whereby it was found that on supply of

cables to BCCL bills used to be submitted to the SBI by M/s.

Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. On submission of the bills, it were being

entered into bill register. When the said amount used to be

credited in the cash credit stock account, the said amount was

to be debited from bill account. Upon amount being credited in

C.C. account 75% of the amount credited would be advanced

to the party by the Bank. Meanwhile, the bills submitted to the

Bank were to be sent to the Finance Section of BCCL for its

payment. After verification of the bills and on being satisfied

that the materials have been supplied and the bills

accompanied all the relevant documents, payments used to be

made to the Bank itself. That arrangement of making payment

to the Bank had been made on the basis of power of attorney

executed by M/s.Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. in favour of the Bank. At the same time, it was also found that as per the

agreement entered into in between M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd.

and the Bank, if the bills submitted by M/s. Data Cables Pvt.

Ltd., upon which 75% of the amount used to be advanced to

the party, are not paid by the BCCL by 90 th day from

submission of the date of bills, the Bank was supposed to make

reverse entry in the account. Meaning thereby that the bill
 amount was to be debited from the cash credit account of M/s.

Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. In spite of such stipulations being there,

when 17 bills submitted by M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. to the

Bank upon which 75% of the bills amount were advanced to

M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd., were not paid by 90 th day, the Bank

officials did not make reverse entry for a considerable period,

as a result of which M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. kept enjoying

with the amount which had been advanced to it and thereby

the Bank was put to loss. During course of investigation, C.B.I did find that the

appellants, Brij Bhushan, the then Chief Manager, Chandra

Mohan Prasad, Chief Manager, A.K.Guha and D.K.Sinha, the

then Field Officers who were responsible in crediting the bill

amount of 17 bills in cash credit account of M/s. Date Cables

Pvt. Ltd. did not make reverse entry after expiry of 90 th day. At

the same time, the Investigating Officer did also find that when

the bills were not paid within 90 days, information regarding

payment of the bills was sought by the Bank officials from BCCL

but the then Additional Chief Finance Manager, P.K.Banerjee

and Finance Manager, P.C.Manjhi sat over the matter and did

not give reply to the letters and also reminders in order to

facilitate the appellant, N.C.Jain to continue with enjoyment of

the money which were advanced to it against 17 bills. Upon submission of the charge sheet, when the accused

persons were put on trial, C.B.I examined as many as 18

witnesses. During trial, Investigating Officer did depose about

the manner in which 75% of the bills amount were being

advanced on submission of the bills. P.W.3 has also deposed

that advances were to be made on submission of the bills but if

the bills are not paid within 90 days, reverse entry was

supposed to be made. He has gone further to say that in many
 cases reverse entry was made but it was made after much

delay. P.W.17 & P.W.18 have also said that no reverse entry

was made ever after 90th day, in spite of bills being not paid.

Evidences were also led to the effect that when payment was

not made of the bills within 90 days, information was sought

from BCCL regarding non-payment of the bills but as per

P.W.16, no reply was sent to the Bank about non-payment,

though the appellant, P.C.Manjhi and B.K.Jha had received the

letters. However, according to P.W.18, reply was given after

offence was committed. Reason for not making payment has

been explained by P.W.16, who has stated that since the bills

were incomplete, being not accompanied with the necessary

vouchers, it were not paid. At the same time, he has stated

that no system was prevailing of giving reply of the letter to the

Bank. Evidences were also led to the effect as it appears from

the evidence of P.W.18, I.O that within 90 days reverse entry

had not been made, though, reverse entry was made on

19.1.1995 of the bills submitted in the year 1993 and

thereupon the amount was declared as NPA for which recovery

a case was filed before Debt Recovery Tribunal. The evidence

has also come on the record that entire money which had been

declared NPA has been recovered. On such evidences learned

Special Judge did find the Bank Officials, namely, Brij Bhushan,

Chandra Mohan Prasad, A.K.Guha, D.K.Sinha guilty of not

making reverse entry even after expiry of 90 days, in spite of

bills being not paid. At the same time, learned Judge also found

P.K.Banerjee, the then Additional Chief Finance Manager, BCCL

as well as P.C.Manjhi, Finance Manager, BCCL to have

conspired with other accused as they in spite of receiving

letters from the Bank seeking information about payment of the

bills did not reply to the Bank, rather sat tight over the matter. Further the court did find that the appellant, N.C.Jain

without supplying the materials to BCCL submitted 17 bills on

the basis of which advance to the extent of 75% of the bill

amount was taken and further in spite of payment being not

made within 90 days, reverse entry was not made by the Bank

officials which they did in connivance with this appellant to put

the appellant in advantageous position. Accordingly, all the

appellants were found guilty of the offences as aforesaid. Being aggrieved with the judgment of conviction and

order of sentence, these appeals have been preferred. Mr.Shailesh, learned counsel appearing for the appellant,

Nemi Chand Jain, the then Director of M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd.

submits that there has been memorandum of understanding

(Ext.13/7) In between M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd and the Bank

whereupon two accounts namely, bill account and cash credit

stock account were opened. As per the stipulation of the

memorandum of understanding, as soon as the bills are raised

against the BCCL, that amount is credited in the bill account.

As soon as that amount is credited in the cash credit account,

the said amount used to be debited from bill account entitling

the appellant to have have advances to the extent of 75% of

the bill amount. Further stipulation is there under the

memorandum of understanding that if the bills submitted for its

payment by the BCCL are not paid normally within 90 days,

reverse entry was supposed to be made in the cash credit

account and thereby the said amount used to be debited which,

according to the case of the C.B.I, was not made after 90 th day,

though evidence has come that in most of the cases, reverse

entry had been made but those entries had definitely been

made after considerable delay but that delay never caused any

loss to the Bank as the Bank in terms of the stipulation made in
 the memorandum of understanding had charged penalty and

also interest over the amount after expiry of 90 days of the

submission of the bills, when bills were not paid and that apart,

the Bank has realized the entire amount which had been

declared as NPA under the order passed by Debt Recovery

Tribunal and the said amount had been realized before

lodgment of the case. That apart, the property of worth Rs.9.5

crores which had been mortgaged has been taken possession

of by the Bank in the year 1994. Therefore, the Bank can never

be said to have been cheated in any manner by the appellant. Learned counsel further submits that so far forgery

aspect of the matter is concerned, it has never been the case of

the prosecution that any forged document was used or on the

basis of the forged document, advances had been made to the

appellant, rather the C.B.I has made out a case of forgery on

the mistaken fact that since the bills were raised without

supplying the materials to the BCCL, those bills were forged

document but that cannot be a case of forgery, even if the bills

were raised without supplying the materials as in terms of

clause 43(o) of the memorandum of understanding, the

appellant was entitled to have advances to the extent of 70%

of the bill amount on submission of the bill itself, meaning

thereby that as soon as the bills are submitted, that amount of

the bills is to be credited without there being any certificate by

the BCCL of supplying materials. Therefore, if the bills

submitted by the appellant remain unpaid, 17 bills submitted

can never be said to be forged/fake bills but the learned Special

Judge did not take into account all these aspects of the matter,

rather it got swayed by the case of the C.B.I that since the bills

were submitted without supplying the materials, all those bills

were fake/forged bills. Mr.B.M.Tripathy, learned Sr. counsel appearing for the

appellant,P.C.Manjhi submits that the appellant, who at the

relevant point of time was posted as Finance Manager, BCCL,

has been convicted for various offences of the Indian Penal

Code and also under the Prevention of Corruption Act on the

allegation that the appellant deliberately did not send reply to

the letters issued by the Bank officials in the year 1995 wherein

request had been made to send back the bills after its

verification. Since no reply was made by the appellant, C.B.I

has taken this action as an act of conspiracy on the part of this

appellant with the Bank officials so that reverse entry be not

made by the Bank officials in the account of M/s. Data Cables

Pvt. Ltd. but the fact was that certain bills had been forwarded

by the Bank to the Purchase and Finance Department not at the

time when the appellant was holding office but it had been sent

before his predecessors. Those bills were not found to be

complete as the bills sent by the Bank were not accompanying

challan, receipt, store receipt voucher, Test Certificate,

Guarantee Certificate, Excise Duty, Gate Pass, Certificate of

Director General Mines Safety, certificate of Depot Officer. In

such situation, those bills were not cleared and as such, it

could be sent to the Bank which would be evident from the

evidence of P.Ws. 15 and 16 and thereby the question of

appellant hatching conspiracy with the other officials of the

Bank does not arise. Further it was submitted that as per the stipulation made

under the memorandum of understanding when the bills

submitted does not get clearance from the department of

BCCL, officials of the Bank should have made reverse entry

after expiry of 90th day without making any correspondence

with the BCCL and thereby absolutely there has been no
 culpability on the part of this appellant and hence, he deserves

to be acquitted. Apart from the submissions which were advanced on

behalf of P.C.Manjhi, it was submitted on behalf of Parimal

Kumar Manjhi that there has been no agreement in between

BCCL and the Bank officials that as soon as the bills would be

submitted by the Bank, it should be processed within 90 days

so that information be sent to the Bank. On the other hand,

stipulation was there in the memorandum of understanding to

the effect that Bank official was supposed to make reverse

entry after expiry of 90th day when confirmation of payment of

bill is not received. It was submitted on behalf of the appellant that the

Investigation Officer in his evidence at paragraph 44 has itself

admitted that incomplete bills were never supposed to be

processed. Further as per the evidence of P.Ws.15 and 16 bills

submitted by the DCPL were not processed and the bills which

were sent by the Bank were not accompanying the relevant

documents and thereby even if no reply was made to the letter

of the Bank, the appellant cannot be said to have conspired

with the Bank officials and other accused persons but the court

below has taken the act of silence on the part of this appellant

to be an act of conspiracy which is quite illegal as neither there

had been any rule nor the precedence was there of giving reply

to the letter of the Bank promptly. Mr.Sinha, learned counsel appearing for the Brij Bhushan

would submit that the appellant, at the relevant point of time,

was posted as Chief Manager, SBI, SIB Branch, Dhanbad, who

had been made accused on the allegation that in spite of bills

being not paid, reverse entry was not made in the cash credit

account of the appellant and thereby M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd.
 went on enjoying the facility of the advances made against the

bill amount but for that the appellant cannot be held

responsible as on 82nd day of the submission of the bills,

account itself had been transferred to other Bank and

therefore, before expiry of 90 days, question of making reverse

entry in the account does not arise. Further it was submitted that the appellant in his

statement made under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal

Procedure has categorically stated that it was not the job of

this appellant to make entry of reverse data. This fact has not

taken into account in spite of the fact that there is no evidence

to the effect that it was the duty of this appellant to make

reverse entry. In this regard, it was further submitted that even if it is

assumed that the duty was of this appellant of making reverse

entry and if that was not done within 82 days, it can at best be

taken to be an act of negligence on the part of the appellant as

in the circumstances, it can never be gathered that ill-intention

was there on the part of the appellant in not making reverse

entry and thereby the appellant in view of the decision

rendered in a case of S.V.L.Murthy vs. State represented

by CBI, Hyderabad [(2009) 6 SCC 77] cannot be held

guilty for the offence under the Indian Penal Code as well as

under the Prevention of Corruption Act . It was further submitted that it has come in evidence that

after reverse entry was made in the account of M/s. Data

Cables Pvt. Ltd. the amount which was due to be paid by M/s.

Data Cables Pvt. Ltd had already been realized and the bank

had taken over the possession of the mortgaged property in the

year 1994 itself whereas the case had been lodged in the year

1998 which fact goes to indicate that there was no mens rea on
 the part of the appellant to put the Bank to loss by preparing

and passing of credit slip putting M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd to

the advantageous position. Moreover, when the amount had already been realized

before lodging of the case, one cannot be convicted for the

offence under Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code in view of

the decision rendered in a case of Narendra Pratap Narain

singh and another vs. State of U.P. (AIR 1991 SC 1394). Mr.P.P.N.Rai, learned Sr. counsel appearing for the

appellant, A.K.Guha and two others would submit that these

three appellants have been convicted on the basis of evidence

adduced by P.W.9 and P.W.11 wherein P.W.9 has deposed that

Devendra Kumar Sinha (appellant no.2 in Cr.App.No.480 of

2007) has prepared credit voucher worth Rs.4056066/-

whereas A.K.Guha, as per the evidence of P.W.11 has passed

the debit voucher worth Rs.45,99,144/- but that cannot be a

ground for conviction of the appellant as neither there had

been stipulation under the memorandum of understanding or it

was the practice of the Bank that the voucher be prepared and

be passed only when bills are accompanied by the relevant

documents, rather as per the memorandum of understanding,

one is supposed to proceed with the bill on its submission

whether it is accompanied by the relevant voucher or not. The

C.B.I has not come forward to put forth the case that under the

practice of the Bank or under any relevant rule, bills be passed

only when it accompanies relevant document and thereby the

court did commit illegality in recording conviction against the

appellant. As against this, Mr.Khan learned counsel appearing for

the C.B.I submits that admittedly the appellants who were the

Bank officials did not make reverse entry after expiry of 90 th
 day from the day of submission of bills upon which advances

had been taken by the co-convict, Nemi Chand Jain, even

though the bills remained unpaid. In this regard, it was further submitted that bills had been

raised in the year 1993 whereas reverse entry has been made

on 19.1.1995. Till then Nemi Chand Jain was enjoying with loan

facility taken on the basis of bills which had been submitted

without supplying the material and thereby it is clear cut case

of conspiracy which the accused persons hatched among

themselves for putting the Bank to loss. It was further submitted that so far Officers of BCCL are

concerned, they had also connived with the Bank officials as

well as Nemi Chand Jain and hence, they did not give any

information to the Bank with respect to those bills upon which

Nemi Chand Jain had taken advance. They purposely remained

silent so that Nemi Chand Jain go on enjoying credit facility. Under the circumstances, the court below is absolutely

justified in recording the judgment of conviction and order of

sentence which needs not to be interfered with. The appellant, Nemi chand Jain was the Director of

M/s.Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. which was manufacturing cables etc.

and was supplying the same to the BCCL. The said firm had had

bill account as well as cash credit stock account. As per the

agreement, whenever bills were raised against BCCL, the bill

amount would be credited in the bill account. As soon as bill

amount is credited in the cash credit account of stock of the

firm, the said amount would be debited from the bill account

and thereby the firm would be entitled to have have advances

to the extent of 75% of the bill amount. This was the practice

which was going on in between the firm, M/s.Data Cables Pvt.

Ltd. and the Bank. Further arrangement was that the bills which were being

submitted to Bank by M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd. it were being

sent to BCCL for its payment to the Bank itself by virtue of

stipulation made under power of attorney executed by M/s.Data

Cables Pvt. Ltd. in favour of the Bank. In course of business, 17

bills were submitted, on the basis of which advances were

made to the extent of 75% of the bill amount. The bills

submitted remained unpaid by the BCCL and therefore, as per

the case of the CBI which has been made on the basis of one of

the terms and conditions e.g. 44(a) of the memorandum of

understanding, the Bank officials should have made reverse

entry after expiry of 90th day. Admittedly, reverse entry was not

made on 91st day and therefore, accusation was made against

the appellant, Nemi Chand Jain, the Director of M/s. Data Cables

Pvt. Ltd as well as Bank officials that reverse entry was not

made by the Bank officials in conspiracy with Nemi Chand Jain

who was enjoying the facility which he has taken on the basis

of submission of the bills. At the same time, accusation was

also made against the Bank officials as well as Nemi Chand

Jain that these bills were not accompanying voucher and other

related document and thereby on this basis, advances should

not have been given to the firm and since bills have been

processed without there being document, those bills have

been taken tobe forged. It is beyond my comprehension as to

how those 17 bills raised by M/s. Data Cables Pvt. Ltd can be

said to be forged when it had not accompanied the relevant

documents. Even if without supplying the material if the bills

have been raised, that cannot be said to be forged document.

Such instances are never covered within the definition of

forgery as has been given under Section 464 of the Indian

Penal Code. Furthermore, one of the conditions which is there under

clause 43(o) never does stipulate that the bill should

compulsorily accompany the related challan, accepted delivery

notes etc. The said clause reads as follows: From its perusal it is evident that bills can be

submitted with or without challan, delivery notes etc. If the

bills have been submitted without there being any related

document and if that has been processed by the appellant,

no illegality can be attached. Now coming to other aspect of the matter of not

making reverse entry on 91st day by the Bank officials

would amount any criminal act on their part. In this respect, I may refer to one of the clauses of

memorandum of understanding which is there as clause

44(a) which reads as follows: From these clauses it is evident that consequences

which the borrower would suffer on account of non-
 payment of bills are there. It is the case of the appellant

which has also been admitted by some of the witnesses

P.W.9 that on account of non-payment of bills the Bank was

charging penalty according to rules of Bank. Further

P.W.18 has said that reverse entry was made on 19.1.1995

and the amount was declared as NPA for which case was

filed before Debt Recovery Tribunal. It has also come on

record that the amount had already been recovered before

the criminal case was filed. In that view of the matter, the appellant, particularly

the Bank officials cannot be said to have not made reverse

entry for putting N.C.Jain to advantageous position by

allowing him to avail facility. The other reason on account

of which reverse entry was not made may be on account of

the stipulation made under clause 44(a) which never

mandated to make reverse entry immediately after expiry

of 90 days as it has been noted that the word 'ordinarily'

has been used. Further it has come that in the evidence as has been

testified by P.W.10 that payments of the bill were

depended upon the availability of the fund before the

BCCL. Under the circumstances, imputation of hatching

conspiracy can not be attached, if reverse entry has not

been made. Further I do find that the appellants, A.K.Guha,

D.K.Sinha and Chandra Mohan Prasad have been convicted

on account of the fact that either they had prepared credit

voucher or passed the bills which were not accompanying

with the related vouchers. That act cannot fasten him with

any guilt for the reason that it was never required as has
 been noted under clause 43(o) that the bill should

accompany with any voucher. Therefore, conviction of

those persons are absolutely bad. So far the appellant, Brij Bhushan is concerned, he

has simply been convicted for the reason that he being the

Chief Manager of SBI, SIB Branch, Dhanbad did not make

reverse entry and allowed co-convict N.K.Jain to have credit

facility but it has never been shown by the prosecution that

it was the duty of the appellant to make reverse entry.

Moreover, reverse entry could have been recorded only

after 90 days of non-payment of the bill whereas as per the

case which has been put forth by the appellant that before

expiry of 90 days the account itself had been transferred to

other Bank and thereby he could not have made reverse

entry before expiry of 90 days as only after expiry of 90

days reverse entry could have been made in the account of

the appellant but the court below did not consider all these

aspects of the matte while recording order of conviction. Accordingly, I do find that the court committed

illegality in recording the conviction against the appellants. So far the appellant Parimal Kumar Banerjee and

P.C.Manjhi are concerned, they have been convicted for

the reason that they should have responded to the letter

and reminder sent by the Bank officials asking information

about payment of the bills and also on the ground that bills

were not cleared within 90 days. It has come in the

evidences of P.W.15 and P.W.16 that bills were not cleared

as it had not accompanied certain documents. Further it

has come in the evidence of P.W.16 that no such practice

was prevailing for giving reply. Therefore, if no such reply

has been given, the appellant cannot be fastened with the
 responsibility in absence of any such rules of giving reply

to the letters of the Bank. Under the circumstances, the court was absolutely

wrong in recording judgment of conviction and order of

sentence against them. Further going into the matter relating to the case of

Nemi Chand Jain, it has already been recorded by referring

to the clause that no wrong was committed in having

advance on the bills submitted even if it did not

accompany the related document. Further it has been noted that in terms of

memorandum of understanding when bills, upon which

advances were allowed, remained unpaid, penalty was

imposed and even the amount which had been declared

NPA had been realized and thereby he can never be said to

have committed any offence of cheating. So far offence of forgery is concerned, I failed to

understand how the appellant can be said to have

committed offence of forgery when no forged document

have been used by them. Simply for the reason that the

bill submitted did not accompany the relevant documents

nor supply was made, advances to the extent of 75% were

availed of, the appellants cannot be said to have

committed offence of forgery as such act never falls within

the definition of forgery. Furthermore, as I have already stated that under the

agreement, one can have had advances on the bills

without there being any related vouchers. In such situation, the appellants seem to have

wrongly been convicted for the offences as stated above. Under the circumstances stated above, the judgment

 of conviction as well as order of sentence passed against

 all the appellants is hereby set aside. In the result, all the appeals are allowed. Consequently, the appellants are acquitted of all the

 charges levelled against them. (R.R.Prasad, J.)

Jharkhand High Court, Ranchi
The 28th Februaray,2014,
N.Dev/N.A.F.R