This petition has been filed to quash the proceedings in

 C.C.No.2323 of 2021 on the file of the learned XI Metropolitan

 Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai, thereby taken cognizance for the offences

 punishable under Sections 380 , 408 r/w. 120(b) of IPC , as against the

 petitioners. 2. The case of the prosecution is that the second respondent

 company is a private limited company incorporated under the Companies

 Act, 1956 . It carries on business, inter alia, of providing end to end,

 turnkey solutions and products in the area of transaction processing and

 payment solutions at customer location. It also provides a range of

 implementation and product design services in the areas of transaction

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 2 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 processing and payment solutions and also provides hosted transaction

 processing and switching services including terminal deployment and

 managed services. It also licensed the software products and also support

 services like customization and production support. It offers the software

 products as a comprehensive package comprising not only of software

 license and maintenance including site technical support, customization,

 production support etc. There was a strictly instruction to their employees

 to maintain the confidentiality of the confidential and properitory

 information of the complainant. The details of confidentiality obligations

 would be spelt out in the appointment order issued by the company. It is

 also entered into non disclosure agreement between the employees.

 Therefore, the employees are required to strictly abide by the terms and

 conditions of confidentiality given in the appointment order. 3. Accordingly, the accused A1 to A7 had joined in the

 complainant company at different times and they were holding different

 posts. They were aware of the confidentiality obligations and they shall

 not disclose the complainant's confidential details and the customer data

 base to any other person. Further they shall not make use of the

 confidentiality obligations to get competitive advantage for themselves.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 3 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 The accused resigned one by one and started competitive business by

 using the confidential information obtained from the complainant during

 their employment. It is blatant violation of the confidential obligations

 signed by them and also breach of trust. 4. It is further alleged that during their employment, the

 accused persons started company carrying on business similar to that of

 the complainant and also duly incorporated in the name and style of

 Concerto Software & Systems Private Limited on 28.05.2008, bearing

 registration No.182792 in which A1 to A4 are Directors. They were taken

 away the customer data and confidential information even before their

 resignation from the company. The complainant's intellectual properties

 used by the accused for preparing presentation materials during their

 employment with the complainant which contains the business details of

 the complainant and shared with the other accused persons. Further, the

 complainant was carrying on projects for various banks in the Middle

 East and the same is now being usurped by the accused company, which

 was floated during their employment with the complainant. The accused

 also used the technical know-how stolen from the complainant which was

 made available to the accused by the complainant knowing fully well that
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 4 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 they should not misuse the confidential information and technical know-

 how of the complainant, thereby the complainant suffers huge loss. 5. On receipt of the said complaint, the first respondent

 registered a FIR in Crime No.72 of 2009 for the offences under Section

 406 r/w. 120(b) of IPC . After completion of investigation, they filed final

 report and same has been taken cognizance for the offences under Section

 380 , 408 r/w 120(b) of IPC in C.C.No.2323 of 2021, on the file of the

 learned XI Metropolitan Magistrate, Saidapet, Chennai. 6. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners

 submitted that no property was stolen by the petitioners. After their

 resignation, they started new company in the name and style of Concerto

 Software & Systems Private Limited. They are only competitive to the

 defacto complainant company and there was no property stolen by them.

 The technology which was used by the defacto complainant and the

 petitioners are one and the same and it is common to all. Therefore, it

 would not amount to theft. There was no property involved in order to

 attract the offence under Section 406 of IPC. Whatever the technology

 and methods used by the petitioners in their new company are available
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 5 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 in public domain. He further submitted that the statement recorded under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., revealed that the presentation about their

 proposed company was E-mailed by them. It would not amount to any

 theft or breach of trust. 7. The learned counsel appearing for the second respondent

 submitted that there is intellectual property which is owned by the

 defacto complainant. Even at the time of employment, they were entered

 into non disclosure agreement and accordingly there were not supposed

 to disclose and use the intellectual property which was handled by them

 for the defacto complainant clients. Therefore, there is clear case of theft

 and breach of trust. Therefore, there are ingredients available to constitute

 the offences under Sections 380 , 408 r/w 120(b) of IPC . 8. The learned Government Advocate (Crl. Side) submitted that

 the petitioners are arrayed as A1 to A7. They were charged for the

 offences under Sections 380 , 408 r/w 120(b) of IPC . All the grounds

 raised by the petitioners can be considered before the trial Court during

 the trial. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 6 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 9. Heard the learned counsel appearing on either side and

 perused the materials placed before this Court. 10. There are totally seven accused in which the petitioners are

 arrayed as A1 to A7. All the petitioners are ex-employee of the second

 respondent. They had led the second respondent to believe by making

 false representation that they would protect the interest of the second

 respondent and also its confidential information. In fact, while entering

 into the service, they executed non disclosure agreement. Even then, they

 had with malafide intent induced the second respondent to part with their

 confidential information, technical know how, customer data base and

 project information. Thereafter, they had been entrusted with the said

 work to the respective clients. However, they had malafied intention to

 cause wrongful loss to the second respondent, started a new company

 even during their employment with the second respondent. It is gross

 violation of trust placed on the petitioners by the second respondent. 11. As rightly pointed out by the learned counsel appearing for

 the second respondent, the entire software owned by the second

 respondent as intellectual property. The said data base and other project
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 7 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 which supported to their respective clients were stolen by the petitioners

 and started new company. Therefore, the petitioners company is not

 competitive company to the second respondent. Whereas, they were

 stolen the entire software and started the new company. Therefore, there

 are ingredients to attract the offences under Sections 380 , 408 r/w.

 120(b) of IPC , as against the petitioners. That apart, all the grounds

 raised by the learned counsel appearing for the petitioners are mixed

 question of fact and it cannot be considered. 12. In this regard, it is relevant to rely upon the judgment of the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India passed in Crl.A.No.579 of 2019 dated

 02.04.2019 in the case of Devendra Prasad Singh Vs. State of Bihar &

 Anr. , wherein it is held as follows:- 15. In view of the above discussions, this Court is not inclined to

 quash the proceedings and the Criminal Original Petition stands

 dismissed. The trial Court viz., the learned XI Metropolitan Magistrate,

 Saidapet, Chennai, is directed to complete the trial within a period of six

 months from the date of receipt of a copy of this Order. Consequently,

 connected miscellaneous petitions are closed. 21.11.2023

 Internet: Yes
 Index : Yes/No
 Speaking/Non Speaking order

 rts

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 11 of 12 Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 G.K.ILANTHIRAIYAN. J,

 rts

 To 1. The XI Metropolitan Magistrate,
 Saidapet, Chennai, 2. The Inspector of Police,
 Central Crime Branch,
 Cyber Crime Cell,
 Vepery, Chennai. 3. The Public Prosecutor,
 Madras High Court,
 Chennai. Crl.O.P.No.12791 of 2021 and
 Crl.M.P.Nos.7069 & 7072 of 2021

 21.11.2023

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Page 12 of 12