India’s government-appointed committee dealing with grievance redressal disputes on Internet platforms has directed Meta to take down a “fake” video of noted journalist Karan Thapar taking an interview “promoting get-rich-quick schemes and bitcoin platforms”.

According to a copy of the order viewed by MediaNama, Meta’s grievance officer (the company official in charge of dealing with user complaints) had previously denied taking down the video twice. First, on grounds that it didn’t violate its community guidelines, and second, on grounds that the complaint didn’t mention the URL of the video or provide clear screenshots of the content.

Notably, Facebook’s community guidelines warn users to not post content facilitating or encouraging “fake jobs, or work-from-home or get-rich-quick scams”. Additionally, India’s platform regulation rules, the IT Rules, 2021 , mandate that platforms cause users not to upload certain kinds of prohibited information, including misinformation and misleading information.

The decision seems to have been eventually appealed before the Grievance Appellate Committee. Established under the IT Rules, 2021, the government-appointed committee deals with complaints of users “aggrieved by decisions of Grievance Officers of social media intermediaries and other intermediaries on complaints of users or victims against violation of the IT Rules and any other matters pertaining to the computer resources made available by the intermediaries”.

The Committee found that Meta’s grievance officer’s responses were “at variance”. First, Meta categorically stated that the video in question didn’t violate the community guidelines, took cognisance of the complaint, and even provided it with an ID number. “This means the GO [grievance officer] was in the know of specific URL link, resolution of the screenshots,” the December 18th order noted. “Therefore, META [sic] subsequently bringing out the absence of these has no basis”.

Directing Meta to remove the video, the order added that “the intermediary’s Grievance Officer at FaceBook [sic] must act promptly on GAC’s directives as conveyed and confirm the action taken to the Grievance Appellate Committee”.

Thapar claimed that the video uploaded to Facebook violated the platform’s community guidelines on fraud and deception, while also damaging his “professional and personal standing”. Thapar also denied affiliations with the interview in November:

“As a responsible citizen, I deem it necessary to issue my response and place before the general public the true and accurate facts in this regard,” Thapar said in a public statement published by The Wire. “Therefore, at the outset, I deny the malicious and defamatory content circulating on social media which is false and fabricated. The general public is hereby requested not to believe or act upon it…I have already got the content reported to Facebook and made a complaint to the police about the above defamatory and malicious posts/webpages to take down the content”.

A quick refresher on how grievance redressal works under the IT Rules, 2021 : Under the IT Rules, social media platforms have to appoint grievance officers. Users can file complaints with them about that platform’s violation of the IT Rules. The grievance officer has to respond to the complaint within 24 hours, and for the most part, resolve it within 15 days. Now, if the user is unsatisfied with the grievance officer’s decision, they can appeal the decision within 30 days to any of the three Grievance Appellate Committees currently in force. The Committees’ decisions on the dispute are binding on platforms. Each Committee comprises a chairperson and two “whole-time” members, who serve three-year terms. Overall, the system functions as an alternative to approaching the courts for redressal.

The controversies surrounding the Grievance Appellate Committee system : The system was introduced through amendments to the IT Rules brought in late 2022. According to the Indian government :

“The need for GAC was created due to large numbers of grievances being left unaddressed or unsatisfactorily addressed by Internet Intermediaries. GAC is expected to create a culture of responsiveness amongst all Internet Platforms and Intermediaries towards their consumers.”

However, critics have remained concerned that government-appointed committees will have undue influence over the kind of content that is permissible online. “You might have a situation where the Executive is interpreting the law at the GAC,” said policy executives speaking to MediaNama at the time. “This is the function of the Judiciary. The GAC creates a case for discretionary Executive power [over the Internet in India].”

Others argued that subsidiary laws like the IT Rules cannot be used to establish committees. Such significant changes need to be brought through their parent legislations, which in this case, would be the Information and Technology Act, 2000.

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event