--- (iii)	Specified in clause (105) of section 65 of the Act, but excluding,- (a) Sub-clauses (zzzo) and (zzzv); (b) Those specified in clause (i) of this rule except when the provision of taxable services specified in sub-clauses (d), (zzzc) and (zzzr) does not related to immovable property; and (c) Those specified in clause (ii) of this rule. When provided in relation to business or commerce, be provision of such services to a recipient located outside India and when provided otherwise, be provision of such services to a recipient located outside India at the time of provision of such service; Provided that where such recipient has commercial establishment or any office relating therein, in India, such taxable services provided shall be treated as export of service only when order for provision of such service is made from any of his commercial establishment or office located outside India. (2)	The provision of any taxable service shall be treated as export of service when the following conditions are satisfied, namely :- 23.	The whole dispute is about expressions delivered outside India and used outside India appearing in the above rules. The government found it necessary to omit these expressions. First the expression delivered outside India was replaced with is provided from India with effect from 01-03-2007. It stands omitted from the rules w.e.f. 27-02-2010 which date is outside the period relevant for this case. The expression used outside India continued till 27-02-2010 when it was omitted. The issue before us has to be examined with reference to rules in existence during the relevant period. But the fact that these got omitted later is indicative of the governments intentions. The first question to be considered is when the service was performed in India but the service recipient was resident outside India can the service be considered as delivered outside India. This issue is complicated by the fact the consumer benefiting from the products sold in India and the after sales services done in India are located in India. This is the argument that is reflected as the need to test location of the customer (see para 226 of the impugned order). I am of the view that the service that is sought to be taxed is the service provided to the person paying for the service and not the service which is provided to a person in India who is not paying for the service though such person may also be a beneficiary of such service. Though the concept that taxable service and consideration paid for it flow in opposite directions is an important concept I think that there is no need to dwell at great length on this issue especially because this issue has been dealt with in the case of Appeal No.ST-311/2009 filed by M/s. Paul Merchants Ltd. which matter is not yet finally decided because of difference in opinion between the two members who original heard the case. I am of the view that the customer for the impugned service of sale promotion is Microsoft Singapore and not the person buying the software. That is to say I am of the view that the customer, with reference to whom issue is to be decided, is in Singapore in this case and if this logic is followed there is no doubt that the service is delivered outside India. 24.	In my view the expression delivered outside India which existed in the rules till 28-02-2007 cannot have the same connotation as performed outside India used in same Rules in respect of Category-II services. The legislature has used these two expressions in the same Rules and hence there is a presumption that both the expressions have different meanings. Nothing to rebut this presumption has come out from the legal arguments. This presumption is strengthened by the fact that all the clarifications issued by CBEC prior to 13-05-2011 are consistent with this view and anything contrary does not come out. An interpretation that deliver is to the person paying for the service and not any person who may incidentally benefit from the activity of the service provider, gives a harmonious interpretation. Since the promotion activity was of products belonging to a person resident abroad it is to be considered that the impugned service was delivered outside India. 25.	At this stage I note that the clarification issued on 13-05-2011 gives the impression that the matter is to be decided with reference to the accrual of benefit. This expression is not used in the Rules though it was used in the earlier circular dated 24-02-2009. The meaning of the expression itself can be disputed. For example in the case before us is the benefit accruing in Singapore or India? The circular does not give any clarity to the issue. If the Rules are not giving the intent that the government desires, the proper course in this sort of inherently complicated matter, is to amend the Rules rather than achieve it through circulars. 26.	I have also considered the issue whether the expression delivered outside India which was present in the Rules during the period till 28-02-2007 would be redundant if the interpretation as given by me is accepted. It appears to be not the case. This condition in Rule 3(2) is applicable to services Category-I and Category-II and could make a difference to a case where an architect is providing service to a person in India for his property outside India. 27.	I have mulled over the issue that the consequence of this interpretation can be that the answer to the question whether any service is exported can be changed by a clever routing of service. I have already mentioned the possibility of medical reports of a hospital in India for use in India being maintained at the request of a company situated abroad and paid for by such company. If this arrangement is a farce with the special objective of avoiding service tax it is a matter to be challenged and if the law is found to be weak to prevent such leakage of revenue law itself found to be weak to prevent such leakage of revenue law itself should be amended. A fear of such a possibility cannot be a reason for interpreting the rule as is before me now. 28.	The next issue is the effect of the expression used outside India which was in force till 27-02-2010. This is a more contentious issue. It is argued by the Appellants that the use of marketing efforts in India is for a sale of products developed outside India and since the service results in increased sale of such product the use is outside India. This is a debatable issue. A harmonious construction considering the evolution of these Rules as also the circulars issued by CBEC prior to 13-05-2011 like the Circular No.111/05/2009-ST dated 24-02-09 supports the interpretation that use outside India is to be judged with regard to the fact where the benefit accrues (para 3 of the Circular). The clarifications issued by CBEC on 24-02-2009 and 13-05-2011 talks about an interpretation with reference to accrual of benefit. This further strengthens the case of the Appellant and not that of Revenue. 29.	I have difficulty in agreeing with the argument that export of service should be determined, especially in the case of category-III services, by looking at the origin and termination of activities constituting a service because this test is not laid down in the Rules. Criterion with reference to activity is the same as a criterion with reference to performance laid down for Category-II. The new concept being introduced is of the last of the activities. If there is a need for such a criterion it has to be introduced specifically in the rules. That is to say Category-III should either be altogether abandoned and services specified in this category should be shifted to Category-II or additional criteria specifically introduced in the Rules applicable for Category-III. Such a criterion can also lead to complication as to what is the last of the activities in a service whether delivery of the outcome of service is part of the activity or not is also to be factored in. 30.	The outcome of the above interpretation is that if a person does market promotion for a manufacturer located outside India for selling the goods in India after its import, the goods will be considered to be imported but the marketing services will be considered to be exported. It may prima facie appear to be contradictory. But this is the outcome of the Rules as it exists now and this was the position clarified by CBEC vide Circular No.111/05/2009-ST dated 24-02-2009 (see para (iii) and para 3 of the Circular). 31.	In the matter of interpreting Rules on a subject like this were the law is evolving, it is necessary that an interpretation consistent with the direction of evolution has to be adopted. Such an approach will also lead to the interpretation I have given above. 32.	There can be other possible arguments that in this case the company receiving services is located in Singapore whereas the actual development of the software might have been elsewhere, even possibly in India itself because Microsoft Corporation may have development centres in India (routing issue). There can also be a concern that the company in India providing service and the company in Singapore receiving services are inter-related companies (see para 4 CBEC circular dated 13-05-2011). There can be another concern that category-II services, performed in India, used as input services may also be getting the benefit of export because the output service gets classified as Category-III. These are not issues contested at any stage in these proceedings but only mentioned to illustrate how complicated things can become in the matter of deciding export of services. Obviously the matter before us cannot be decided on the basis of all what we do not know. 33.	Now I wish to examine whether there is anything in Export of Services Rules, 2005, which is contrary to meaning of export for interpreting Article 286 (1) (b) of the Constitution and definition of the term in Customs Act, 1962 and the decisions fo the Apex Court I the case of Association of Leasing and Financial Service Companies-2010 (20) STR 417 (SC) and All India Federation of tax Practitioners Vs. UOI 2007 (7) STR 625 (SC) relied upon by my Ld. Brother. Though there is equivalence between goods and services in certain aspects for taxing the two, there is a fundamental difference between them in the matter that the former is tangible while the latter is not tangible in most cases though its effect or outcome may be tangible. It is difficult to conceive of taking the service and crossing the border, be it the services of an architect residing in India designing building located outside India (though the tangible outcome namely designs can be carried outside) or be it the activity of a person organizing a business exhibition outside India or be it maintenance of medical records. 34.	The word export in Article 286 in the Constitution is used with reference to goods. So is the case with definition of export in section 2(18) of the Customs Act, 1962. It will obviously need some dovetailing in the context of export of service which issue has come up only after 1994. It is this dovetailing that is being achieved through export of Service Rules, 2005 and the criteria laid down in the Rules are neither arbitrary nor inconsistent with the any provisions in the Constitution. The issue being dealt with in the Rules is that whether taking out of India should be decided with reference to the situs of the property or the situs of the activity or the situs of the person receiving the service. The Rules choose to deal differently with different services and this cannot be considered as arbitrary. Further in a proceeding before this Tribunal there is no scope for deciding on the virus of Rules framed by Government of India under section 94 of Finance Act, 1994. 35.	The Honourable Supreme Court in the case of All India Federation of Tax Practitioners (Supra) observed that service tax is a destination based consumption tax. The question at hand is how the destination is to be decided  whether it is to be decided with reference to the location of the person who paid for the service or with reference to the last of the activities constituting the service. In para 19 of the order the Hon Court observes as under: 36. In the matter of theory of equivalence decided by the Apex Court first in the case of All India Federation of Tax Practitioners (supra) and later referred to by the Court in the case of Association of Leasing and Financial Service Companies (supra) what I find is that the observation is made while answering the question whether Union of India has power to levy service tax on the services in question and the decision cannot be interpreted to mean that goods and services are exactly equivalent in all matters relating to taxation. Already there are a few differences in practices followed for levy of excise duty and levy of service tax as in the case of point of taxation, taxability of services rendered free of cost, taxability of activity for the benefit of the person doing the activity which would have constituted service if another person did the activity for the benefit of the such person (corresponding to excise duty levied on captive consumption), etc. It is not possible to achieve exact equivalence between taxation on goods and services and especially so in the matter of criteria for deciding the question whether services is exported. The Apex Court has not ruled in the above decisions that tax on services and duties on goods are identical footing in all respects. 37.	For the above reasons I am of the view that the impugned Business Auxiliary Services were exported as per the provisions of Export of Services Rules, 205 as in force during the relevant period and in this respect I would like to differ with my learned Brother for reasons stated above. 38.	In the matter of Appeal No.ST-828/2010 also the basic issue is whether the output service is exported, that is the issue discussed in this order. There were no submissions in respect of that appeal during the hearing. It may be proper that that appeal is heard for any other relevant issue that may be involved in that appeal, after this appeal is finally decided. Mathew John

(Member Technical)

 

	Considering the two different views of the Members of the bench of the Tribunal which heard the matter as coming out from the orders drafted by each Member as above, we have agreed to list out the following points of difference to be decided by a Third Member of the Tribunal. Points of difference: (Pronounced in the open Court on 9.11.2011)

 

(Mathew John)				 	 (D.N.Panda)

Technical Member				Judicial Member

 

 The Registry is to place the matter before the Honble President for appropriate order. 39.	The difference on the following points, arrived at in terms of two separate orders recorded by two Members of the original Bench stand placed before me, as a Third Member. (i)	Whether the impugned Business Auxiliary service of promotion of market in India for foreign principal made in terms of Article 2 and 3 of the Agreement dated 01/07/2005 amounts to export of service considering Article 286 (1) (b) of the Constitution of India read with Apex decisions in the case of Sate of Kerala and Others vs. The Cochin Coal Company Ltd.  [1961 (12) STC 1 (SC)], Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distributing Co. of India Ltd. and other vs. Commercial Tax officers and others  [(1960) 11 STC 764 (SC) and the provisions of Export Service Rules, 2005 as well as Circular No. 141/10/2011  TRU dated 13.5.2011 issued by C B E & C issued by C B E & C ? (ii)	Whether the impugned Business Auxiliary Service of promotion of market in India for foreign principal made in terms of Article 2 and 3 of the Agreement dated 01/07/2005 was delivered outside India and used threat and is immune from levy of service tax as export of service in terms of the provisions of Export Service Rules, 2005 read with Circulars issued by C B E & C excluding Circular No. 141/10/2011  TRU dated 13.5.2011? (iii)	Whether the impugned Business Auxiliary Service provided in terms of Agreement dated 01/07/2005 is governed by the principles of equivalence and destination based consumption tax as well as law laid down by Apex Court in All India Federation of Tax Practitioners  [2007 (7) STR 625 (SC)] and Association of Leasing and Financial Services Companies vs. UOI  [2010 (20) STR 417 (SC)]. (iv)	The appeal in Appeal No. ST-828/2010 without being argued by both sides whether can be said to have involved the issue that output service was exported or conclusion is to be arrived at upon hearing both sides? (v) Whether demand for the normal period sustains subject to grant of cum-tax benefit and Cenvat Credit? 40.	Inasmuch as the facts already stand detailed in the said orders recorded by my brothers, the same are not being repeated so as to avoid redundancy. In fact I find that there is no dispute on the factual position and it is only the legal issue, on which there are separate opinions by both the sides. The main issue required to be decided is as to whether the appellant, who is subsidiary company and had entered in the market development agreement with foreign principal located at Singapore is liable to Service tax on the services so rendered by them to its principal company. 41.	The matter was heard at length on different dates when the representative of both the sides appeared and made extensive arguments. Subsequent to the conclusion of the arguments, both the sides have placed on record the written submissions. 42.	The appellants is admittedly covered under the definition of business auxiliary services. The said services are being provided by the appellant to its principal company, which is located at Singapore. The dispute required to be resolved is as to whether rendering of business auxiliary services to a service recipient, which is located outside India, would be covered by Export Service Rules, 2005 so as not to create any service tax liability against the appellant. The said Rules stand reproduced and discussed by both the Members and as such are not being reproduced. 43.	 According to the Revenue inasmuch as the services involved in the matter are marketing support services for the marketing of Microsoft products and services in India. This comprises host of services such as maximizing the markets for Microsoft products including all local advertising and performing the other activities including dissemination of information to potential customers, commenting on any developments in the territory affecting the software industry, investigating feasibility of new markets for Microsoft retail products and providing other services of marketing nature, etc. Much of this is accomplished by way of identifying the customers regarding marketing of Microsoft products; local advertising; performing other activities including dissemination of information to potential customers, commenting on any developments in the territory affecting the software industry. These services once provided are not capable of being used in a territory other than where they have been provided. In fact most of the time; provision, delivery and use is happening simultaneously. It will be inaccurate to suggest that the above said services provided in India can even be delivered or used in a territory other than where these have been provided because the intended target group of the service provider is the prospective buyer located in India . 44.	The word and as a conjunction has been inserted at the end of condition (a) clearly mandates that both the conditions have to be satisfied together. The moment both the conditions are read together the confusion regarding delivery and use disappears, as the words provided outside India clearly do not lead themselves to any confusion regarding delivery and use disappears, as the words provided outside India clearly do not lead themselves to any confusion in as much as the intention of the law makers becomes immediately clear that the services to qualify as exports have necessarily to be provided outside India and not provided in India. The word provided is the equivalent of the word manufacturer in the case of goods. It means creation or origin. Undoubtedly, the service has been provided in India. Thus the service was never provided outside India. For this additional reason also the services in this case do not constitute export within the meaning of Rule 3(1)(iii) of the Export of Services Rules 2005 for the period from 19/4/2006 to 31/5/2007. Further for the period 01/06/2007 onwards the criterion provided outside India was omitted but the condition of services provided from India and used outside shall remained in force. 45.	The Rules clearly specify two separate conditions i.e. the user should be located outside India and the use should also be outside India. These conditions have to be satisfied independently of each other. If the Noticees explanation were to be accepted, a mere change in location of the recipient will also lead to change in the place of use of service. For example, if in this case, the recipient were to be relocated from USA to say Japan, in terms of the noticees logic, the place of use of service will stand automatically shifted from USA to Japan. This legal position could have been obtained if the Government gave an exemption from payment of taxes based on country to which the contractee-buyer in the service purchase agreement belongs. In Double Tax Avoidance Agreements (DTAA) under the Income Tax Act which Government of India enters into with different taxing jurisdictions outside India, this position does emerge because the Income Tax Act gives a facility to tax payers belonging to a particular territory that has DTAA with India, to pay taxes according to that agreement and not according to the main provisions of the Income Tax Act , provided that the tax payer pays Indian Income Tax department withholding taxes on certain remittances made by them abroad. There is no legally binding international treaty in respect of taxation of services which can free non-resident companies from payment of service tax where the provision and exhaustion of the service is on Indian soil . 46.	 He has also referred to certain provisions of Income Tax Act and based upon the reasoning adopted by learned Member Judicial, has pleaded that there is no ambiguity that legislature in the terms of Export of Services Rules 2005 which clearly intended that service consumed outside India shall be export. Inasmuch as in the present case the market was promoted by the appellant to bring Microsoft products and technical support into India and the ultimate consumption of services was made in India, it has to be held that services was provided in India and would be liable to Service Tax. 47.	 On the other hand, the appellants have strongly adopted the reasoning of the learned Member (Technical) and have stated that in terms of Export of Services Rules, 2005, the service recipient i.e. the Microsoft Operations Pvt. Ltd. is located in Singapore and as such is outside India. The services provided by the appellants is to the parent company and not to any Indian customers. Payment for the services are being received by the appellant from their parent company located in a foreign land and in convertible foreign exchange. As such, inasmuch as the service recipient is not in India and the services being provided is to a foreign company located outside India, it has to be held that services being provided by the appellant are export of services. It also stand argued that services are intangible as against the export of tangible goods and as such, definition of export as appearing in Customs Act being in respect of goods is irrelevant and the entire issue has to be adjudged in accordance with the provisions of Export Service Rules, 2005. Learned advocate appearing for the appellant has also drawn my attention to the other decisions, in support of his submissions. 48.	Without going into the detailed facts involved and the detailed submissions made by both the sides, I find that an identical dispute was the subject matter of another decision of the Bench constituting the same Members, in the case of M/s. Paul Merchants Ltd. vs. CCE Chandigarh . The said difference of opinion referred to third Member stand resolved in favour of the assessee. It stand held by third Member that the services provided by a sub-agent in India to a service recipient located outside are export of services and hence not liable to be taxed. 49.	Inasmuch as the same issue is involved in the present matter also, by adopting the said majority decision in the case of Paul Merchants Ltd. laying down that the services provided by the agents and some agencies being delivery of money to the intended beneficiary of the customer of the western units abroad, which may be located in India and the services provided being business auxiliary services is also to the western unit who is recipient of services and consumers of services, it has to be held that services were being exported in terms of Export of Services Rule 2005 and not liable to Service Tax. 50.	In a recent decision the Tribunal in the case of Larsen & Toubro [Misc. order No. 59225-59226/13 dated 9.9.13] held that a majority decision is Larger Bench decision having the same binding criteria as that of Larger Bench. If that be so, the majority decision in the case of Paul Merchant is required to be followed. 51.	Even otherwise also, I find that the disputed service is the service being provided by the appellant to his principal located in Singapore. The marketing operations done by the appellant in India cannot be said to be at the behest of any Indian customer. The service being provided may or may not result in any sales of the product in Indian soil. The transactions and activities between the appellant and Singapore principal company are the disputed activities. As such, the services are being provided by the appellant to Singapore Recipient company and to be used by them at Singapore, may be for the purpose of the sale of their product in India, have to be held as export of services. 52.	 Apart from the above, we note that there was identical issue was before the Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Gap International Sourcing (India) Pvt. Ltd. [2014-TIOL-465-CESTAT-Del]. Vide its detailed order and after considering the various decisions of the higher Court as also various circulars issued by the Board, it stand held that services of identifying the Indian customers, for procurement of various goods on behest of foreign entity is the service provided by a foreign entity and such service provided by a person in India is consumed and used by a person abroad. It has to be treated as export of services. I also take note of the Tribunals decision in the case of Vodafone Essar Cellular Ltd. vs. CCE Pune [ 2013-TIOL-566-CESTAT- Mum] wherein it stand held that when the services is rendered to third party at the behest of the assessees customers, the service recipient is assessees customer and not the third party i.e. his customers customer. As such, the services being provided at the behest of the foreign telecommunication services provided to a person, roaming India were held to be constituting export services under the Export of Services Rules, 2005. The said decision stand subsequently followed by the Tribunal in the case of CESTAT, Mumbai vs. Bayer Material Science Pvt. Ltd. vs. CST Mumbai [2014 TIOL- 1064 CESTAT- Mum] Business Auxiliary services provided by the assessee to their members located outside India by marketing their product in India was held to be export of services inasmuch as the service was held to be provided to the foreign located person who was also paying to the assessee on such services in convertible foreign exchange. 53.	Learned DR appearing for the appellant has not been able to brought to my notice any other decision of any other Court which is contrary to the law declared in the above referred decision. Accordingly, I agree with the learned Member (Technical) that the services provided by the appellant are covered by the Export of Service Rules 2005 and are not liable to service tax. 54.	In view of the above, the difference of opinion on various points is resolved as under: Files to be placed before original Bench for recording of final majority order. (Pronounced in the open Court on 11.09.2014)

	 (Archana Wadhwa) 

 Member(Judicial)

ss

Majority Order 55.	Service Tax Appeal No.ST/866/2008 is allowed and Service Tax Appeal No.ST/828/2010 is to be listed for hearing. Registry to list the Appeal No.ST/828/2010 in due course.