VC fund AngelPrime has declared the winners of its online Aadhaar hackathon which was held on June 6 and 7. AngelPrime said that Aadhaar APIs like biometric, eKYC, demographic, OTP and OTP eKYC authentications were exposed to developers along with the provision of USB based biometric sensors and their Windows and Android SDKs from Morpho. Khosla Labs also opened up the APIs of its Aadhaar Bridge product, which could be used to integrate the services on the developers’ apps.

Student ID verification app: The winner of the hackathon is the True Scholar app, developed by Bangalore’s Anantha Padmanabha, which uses Aadhaar APIs to verify student identity. It provides a central database for all exam results, online exam registrations and also claims to prevent impersonation during exams.

Document-less verification through Aadhaar: The first runner up is an app called Aadhaarical, developed by Pankaj Chhabra, Supriya Saini, Ishrat Khan and Sachin Arora from Delhi, which enables document-less verification in real time via Aadhaar cards. The app also claims use cases for reporting vehicle theft, tracking missing vehicles, challan issuance, online e-document access to resident and traffic police and car towing notifications when a car is parked in a no parking zone.

Local partnerships for social marketplace: The second runners up position is tied between three teams. The first is an app called Samaadhaar, a social marketplace which claims to connect non-internet users in India to products and service providers through local partnerships. Developed by Dawar Dedmari , Brijesh Masrani, Mahendra Liya and Manan Saleem Beg from Bangalore, the app also provides personalised content and info to users based on an Aadhaar verification.

Driving license through Aadhaar verification: The second team Sumanyu Soniwal, Shubham Gupta, Soubhik Saha from Agra, Lucknow and Ghaziabad, created an app called Aadhaaric License which aims at letting people obtain a driving license through a free online procedure by using their Aadhaar card. The third team of Thiyagarajan, Rajeef, Priyanka and Ashir from Bangalore developed an app called 18-plus which, paired with a fingerprint scanner, lets organisations verify people’s ages.

AngelPrime said that over 5,200 developers from Indians living in and outside the country participated in the hackathon, forming over 1,600 teams who built products surrounding the themes of payments, productivity, government benefits, financial services, FMCG, healthcare and online to offline.

The applications were required to use Aadhaar APIs and were judged on the basis of code quality and ‘sophistication’ of the app by Dr Parmod Varma (Chief Architect of UIDAI), Arvind Gupta (BJP convenor and national head of IT), Ravi Gururaj (Chairman of Nasscom Product Council) and Sanjay Swamy (Managing Partner at AngelPrime). UIDAI volunteers Raj Mashruwala, Sanjay Jain and Dr Vivek Raghavan screened and rated the submissions, shortlisting 11 final teams. The hackathon was administered through the HackerEarth Sprint, a tool developed by HackerEarth for conducting large scale online hackathons.

Image Credit: Flicker user Sebastiaan ter Burg

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event