R.F. Nariman, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. This appeal is at the instance of an Australian company, Anglo

 American Metallurgical Coal Pty. Ltd. [“Appellant”], which produces

 and exports certain types of coal. By a Long Term Agreement dated

 07.03.2007 [“LTA”], between the Appellant and MMTC Ltd.

 [“Respondent”], the Appellant, referred to as the “seller” in the LTA,

 agreed to supply certain quantities of freshly mined and washed Signature Not Verified "German Creek", "Isaac" (Blend of 65% Moranbah North and 35% Digitally signed by R Natarajan Date: 2020.12.17 16:42:10 IST Reason: German Creek coking coals) and "Moranbah North" coking coal to the

 Respondent. Clause 1 of this LTA is material and states as follows: 1 1.1.1 Annual base quantity from 1st July, 2007 to 30 June,
2009, in case Purchaser exercises its option to extend the
Agreement by 2 years, shall be 466,000 metric tonnes,
subject to further discussions at the time of contract
extension and the logical contract specification
modifications to reflect the changing nature of existing
reserves at the Moranbah North and German Creek mining
operations will be mutually agreed. 1.2 For the purpose of this Agreement, the Delivery Period
shall be reckoned as follows: Clause 2.2 is important and states as follows: 2.2 The Price for the Delivery of AGREEMENT quantity for
 subsequent Delivery Periods shall be fixed in accordance
 with Para I of Annexure-1 and shall be firm and shall not be
 subject to any escalation for any reason, whatsoever, until
 the completion of delivery of the AGREEMENT quantity
 due for delivery in the relevant Delivery Period with such
 extensions as might be mutually agreed upon between the
 PURCHASER and the SELLER.” 4. Disputes arose between the Appellant and the Respondent as to

 shipments or “stems” that were to be covered by the Fifth Delivery

 Period, which ranged from 01.07.2008 to 30.06.2009, the parties

 mutually extending this period to 30.09.2009. A number of emails and

 letters were exchanged between the parties from August 2008 to

 December 2009, which were examined in detail by a panel of 4 arbitrators consisting of Mr. Peter Leaver (Queen’s Counsel), Justice

 V.K. Gupta (Retd.) and Mr. Anthony Houghton (Senior Counsel)

 [“Arbitral Tribunal”] who sat at New Delhi and delivered their

 international arbitral award in New Delhi on 12.05.2014. It may be

 stated at the outset that the award is a majority award of Mr. Peter

 Leaver and Mr. Anthony Houghton [“Majority Award”], in favour of the

 Claimant, being the Appellant before us, a dissenting award being

 delivered by Justice V.K. Gupta [“Dissenting Award”], in which the

 claim of the Appellant was dismissed in its entirety. 5. The Majority Award was challenged under section 34 of the Arbitration

 and Conciliation Act, 1996 [“ Arbitration Act ”] before a learned Single

 Judge of the High Court of Delhi [“Single Judge”], who upheld the

 Majority Award by a judgment dated 10.07.2015. However, by the

 impugned judgment dated 02.03.2020, a Division Bench of the High

 Court of Delhi [“Division Bench”] set aside the judgment of the Single

 Judge and allowed an appeal filed under section 37 of the Arbitration

 Act by the Respondent, setting aside the Majority Award. 6. The Majority Award contains detailed reasons, and since it is the

 subject matter of intense debate between the parties, it is important to

 set out the facts found by the Majority Award, together with the

 material findings and ultimate award. 5 5a. Under the heading, “I. Common Grounds and Issues in Dispute”,

 the Majority Award set out what it describes as the undisputed facts,

 as follows: The Long Term Agreement they signed was extended by
 agreement and is to be read along with Addendum No.2
 dated 20th November 2008. As referred to at paragraph 5
 above, the Long Term Agreement as extended by
 Addendum No. 2 is referred to herein as “the Agreement”. 36. Prior to Addendum No.2, the Agreement encompassed
 three Delivery Periods of one year each commencing on
 1st July 2004 and concluding on 30th June 2007. The Long
 Term Agreement included a provision (at Clause 1.3) that
 gave the Respondent an option to extend the Long Term
 Agreement for two more Delivery Periods, and this option
 was exercised such that purchases and deliveries were
 also to be made in a Fourth Delivery Period (between 1st
 July 2007 and 30th June 2008); and a Fifth Delivery Period
 (1st July 2008 to 30th June 2009). 38. In regard to these two additional Delivery Periods it was
 provided that the Respondent would purchase 466,000 MT
 of coking coal during each Delivery Period (Clause 1.1.1). 39. The matters which are in dispute arise out of the Fifth
 Delivery Period. This was to have run to 30th June 2009,
 but was extended by agreement between the parties so as 6 to expire on 30th September 2009 as confirmed in the
Claimant's letter to the Respondent dated 14th August
2008. The coking coal to be supplied was of two types
(Isaac Coking Coal blend and Dawson Valley blend) and
the agreed price for each for the Fifth Delivery Period was
US$300 per MT. That price was agreed by the parties in
accordance with the Agreement, and was confirmed by
letter from the Respondent to the claimant dated the 20th
November 2008. 40. It is not in dispute that the Respondent lifted only two
shipments at the agreed price of US$300 per MT during
the Fifth Delivery Period. The first was on 30th October
2008, and was a quantity of 2,366 MT, and the second on
5th August 2009, when the Respondent lifted another
9,600 MT. 41. The first of these shipments was via the 'Furness
Hartlepool' and was part of a larger shipment under which
48,655 MT was lifted in respect of balance quantities under
the Fourth Delivery Period (at the agreed rate for that
period of US$96.40 per MT). The Fifth Delivery Period
component of this delivery was 2,366 MT and this was
transacted at the agreed price of US$300 per MT. 42. The second of these shipments was an ad hoc
agreement made in a meeting on 15th July 2009 and
confirmed in writing by the Respondent on 22nd July 2009.
That ad-hoc agreement ("the Sea Venus agreement") was
for 50,000 MT of coal under which 9,600 MT was to be
purchased at the contractual price of US$300 per MT, but
the balance 40,400 MT was to be sold at an ad hoc price of
US$128.25 per MT. 43. Even after these two deliveries were made there was a
considerable shortfall in deliveries against the contracted
quantity for the Fifth Delivery Period. The total quantity
actually lifted in respect of the Fifth Delivery Period was
11,966 MT (2,366 + 9,600MT) as compared to the
contracted quantity of 466,000MT. Accordingly, the quantity
not lifted by MMTC amounts to 454,034 MT. 44. This quantity not lifted underpins the Claimant's claim,
which is for damages arising out of an alleged breach on 7 the part of the Respondent in not lifting the contracted
quantity. The loss claimed by the Claimant is the difference
between what is said to have been the market price, and
the contract price. 45. For its part the Respondent denies any breach on its
part in not having lifted the contracted quantity. This is
because, according to the Respondent, the Claimant did
not in fact have the goods available for delivery to the
Respondent. The Respondent's contention is that the
Claimant's marketing manager expressed an inability to
supply cargo under the Fifth Delivery Period, and the
Respondent says that this was a simple refusal to perform
the obligation to supply coal under the Agreement.
Correspondingly, the Respondent contends that it was the
Claimant which was in breach of the Agreement. 46. The detailed issues which arise, as defined in the
Terms of Reference and, as these were supplemented, are
as follows: 57. On 2nd July 2009 the Respondent wrote to the
Claimant, requesting, the Respondent submits, the
Claimant to indicate stem availability for two deliveries, one
each in August and September 2009. The Respondent
said: 58. On 3rd July 2009 the Claimant wrote to Mr. Babu of the
Respondent seeking time to respond to the request.
However there was no follow up from the Claimant. On
21st July 2009 the Respondent again requested
confirmation of stem availability: 59. On 22nd July 2009 the Claimant responded, stating: 60. The Respondent submits that this means what it
literally says; the Claimant refused to confirm stem
availability for August and September 2009 due to a lack of
availability. Correspondingly, the Claimant failed to supply
the contracted material within the Fifth Delivery Period. 10 61. On 4th September 2009, the Respondent wrote to the
Claimant stating that: 62. Once again the Claimant (through Mr Wilcox)
expressed itself to be unable to supply the coal under the
Fifth Delivery Period because of non availability for the
remainder of the year 2009 (e-mail of 7th September,
2009). Mr. Wilcox stated: 63. On 21st September 2009 the Claimant wrote as
follows: 64. The author of the letter (Mr. Elliott, the General
Manager, Marketing and Transportation of the Claimant)
then set out the terms which had been agreed with
SAIL/RINL and set out a proposal for delivery of the
"carryover" quantity and for renewal of the agreement with
the Respondent. 65. On 25th September 2009 the Respondent (Mr. Babu)
responded to that letter. The response stated that the
proposal was "near to impossible" in that it envisaged the
Respondent lifting a very substantial quantity of the
carryover quantity by end March 2010. The letter then
stated: In the 2nd the Claimant stated that "unfortunately at this
 stage we do not have any coal availability for the
 remainder of the year". 119. The Claimant's case, which we accept, is that there
 was no shortage of supply at the relevant time. The e-mails
 have to be read in context, and as we explain below, the
 context is that the Respondent was seeking further
 deliveries of coal at below the contract price. 120. Mr. Wilcox in his Additional Affidavit informed the
 Tribunal that the Claimant was not a trader in coal but
 owned coal mines in Australia and had a railway system in
 place to ensure smooth shipments. He stated that at the
 relevant time the market was affected by the global
 financial crisis which brought about a crash in the demand
 for steel and, consequently, for the relevant type of coking
 coal. He said that, at the relevant time, the Claimant had a
 large quantity of surplus production, some of which was
 sold off by way of "distress sales" during the Fifth Delivery
 Period. 13 121. Mr. Wilcox was challenged in cross examination (Q40)
as to the availability of cargo to supply to the Respondent
between July 2009 and 21st September 2009. He
disagreed that the Claimant had no supply, stating that the
Claimant was producing around 1,000,000 tonnes per
month during this period. He said that it would have been
very easy for the Claimant to produce coal for the
Respondent had they been willing to pay the contract price.

Subsequently (Q43-Q45) he was challenged about the
alleged distress sales. He confirmed that such distress
sales were made. His affidavit indicated such sales
amounted to approximately 712,000 MT, and that these
sales were made at between US$83 and US$113 per MT,
far below the price agreed with the Respondent. 122. The Tribunal accepts Mr. Wilcox's evidence. It is
entirely consistent with the Respondent's own letter dated
20th November 2008 which reads: 123. It appears to us that the evidence is all one way, to the
 effect that demand for coking coal was substantially
 reduced during the last few months of 2008 and in, at least,
 the first half of 2009, and it follows, it seems to us, that this
 strongly corroborates Mr. Wilcox's evidence as to the
 availability of coking coal for supply to the Respondent. 124. Accordingly we reject the Respondent's assertion that
 the Claimant did not have the contract goods to deliver.
 The Tribunal makes one further observation: the Fifth
 Delivery Period price was agreed just over two months
 after the global financial crisis which started at about the
 time of the collapse of Lehman Brothers on the 15th
 September 2008. The price agreed by the parties for that
 period was significantly higher than the price for any of the
 preceding periods. That is in itself extraordinary, but what is
 even more extraordinary is that the Respondent's request
 for a price reduction was made on the very same day on
 which the Fifth Delivery Period price was agreed.”

5d. Under the sub-heading, “Failure to Offer Stem?”, the finding of the

 Majority Award was as follows: The Respondent denied the receipt of this letter. However, the

 Majority Award found as follows: 12). 144. The ad-hoc Sea Venus agreement was for 50,000 MT
 of coal under which 9,600 MT, or thereabouts was
 transacted at the price of US$300 per MT, with the balance
 40,400 metric tonnes sold at an ad hoc price of US$128.25
 per MT. This was said to have been a "goodwill gesture" 145. The market price remained low throughout the Fifth
 Delivery Period (see for example the agreement made by
 the Claimant with SAIL/RINL on 15th July 2009 (Vol.2, 17 pages 13-20) agreeing rates at below US$129.00 per MT)
and, viewed commercially there was little incentive for the
Respondent to continue to purchase from the Claimant at
the agreed rates. 146. The Tribunal's view of the correspondence is that the
Respondent saw matters similarly, and was seeking to
purchase further quantities of coal at the lower rate
obtained in the Sea Venus agreement. In the e-mail of 2nd
July 2009 Mr. Babu referred to the Respondent having
progressed the chartering of a vessel for the Sea Venus
agreement, and asked, without apparent distinction about
the availability of 2 further stems for August and
September. Receiving no substantive response to the
enquiry regarding such further stems Mr. Babu followed up
by e-mail on 21st July 2009. He did not, as might have
been expected if this was part of the usual contractual
arrangements point out that the Claimant was obliged to
fulfil this order, nor did he make any complaint that the
Claimant had failed to comply with the "prerequisite" of
indicating stem availability before the Respondent was
required to act. 147. It was in this context that Claimant wrote on 22nd July
2009 referring to an inability to confirm stem in
August/September due to cargo availability. Seen in the
context of the exchanges between the parties, and seen
against the background of the evidence given by Mr.
Wilcox to the effect that prices had slumped and the
Claimant was "dumping" coal in China, the only possible
understanding of this e-mail is that the Claimant was
declining to supply further coal at below the contract rate
as had been done in the ad hoc Sea Venus agreement. 148. On 4th September 2009 the Respondent wrote again
seeking stem (for delivery beyond the contract period),
noting that there had been no delivery since the Sea Venus
agreement. Once again the response received by the
Respondent was that there was a lack of availability. 149. None of these exchanges refer specifically to the price
at which the coal was being sought, or at which it might be
available. Mr. Wilcox's evidence was however clear that the
contemporaneous discussions between the parties were on 18 the basis that the Respondent was seeking further
 discounted supplies, and indeed his understanding was
 that the Respondent was purchasing from other suppliers
 at rates lower than those to which it was bound under the
 Fifth Delivery Period. 150. The Respondent's letter of 25th September 2009 is
 consistent only with the Respondent having sought
 discounted price supply in the July/August period. The
 letter described the difficulty the Respondent would face in
 incurring losses by purchasing proportions of the "carry
 over quantity", that is the unfulfilled part of the quantities
 under the Fifth Delivery Period. The Respondent had
 proposed, in line with an agreement made by the Claimant
 with SAIL/RlNL, to purchase only 18.7% of the carry over
 quantity, and was, in the correspondence, balking at the
 suggestion made on behalf of the Claimant that 56.7% of
 that quantity be lifted by 31st March 2010. This was
 described by the Respondent as "near to impossible'', and
 the Respondent asked the Claimant not to ignore the
 economic realities completely. 151. Thus, the first relevant letter written by the
 Respondent during the Fifth Delivery Period [C-5] on 20th
 November 2008 sought a reduction in the price of coal to
 be delivered under the Fifth Delivery Period as did the last
 such letter, that of 25th September 2009. Following the
 conclusion of the Fifth Delivery Period the Claimant made a
 further offer of supply (on 25th November 2009) which the
 Respondent was prepared to accept only at a price
 reduced from the contractual rate (Respondent's letter of
 27th November 200[9]). The Respondent's arguments now
 are predicated on there having been a temporary change
 of stance during the course of the year such that, in June
 and July 2009 it was seeking no more than to avail itself of
 supplies of coal at the contract rate. Seen in context, the
 correspondence relied on does not begin to support that
 contention, and the Tribunal rejects it. The Respondent
 was seeking coal at below the contract rate and the
 Claimant was refusing to supply on those terms. The
 Respondent failed to fulfil its contractual obligation to lift the
 contracted quantities of coal at the contract rate.”

5g. Under the sub-heading, “Limitation”, the Majority Award held: 19 The Respondent was itself purchasing coal from BHP
 Mitsui at about US$128 per MT at about this time. 157. There is no dispute as to the relevant quantity of
 coking coal which was not lifted, and the Tribunal accepts
 (this not being a matter of dispute) that the difference
 between the market rate and the contracted rate
 represents the correct measure of damages. That is the
 basis upon which the Claimant's claim has been evaluated
 in its claim documents. Accordingly the Tribunal accepts
 the Claimant's evidence as to the quantum of its loss.”

5i. Finally, therefore, in a useful summary, the Majority Award held: Not a single document has been produced in terms of
 which the Claimant could show that it had written to the
 Respondent that so much quantity of material was sitting at
 the load port and that MMTC has failed to nominate the
 vessel. After the 11th March 2009 letter there is no other
 communication addressed by the Claimant to the
 Respondent requesting the Respondent to provide the
 delivery schedule. On the contrary in their emails they
 expressed their inability to supply any cargo within the
 delivery period. It appears that there were several Buyers
 between July and September 2009 on account of shortage
 of coking coal and that there was sudden increase in
 demand of coal and during the month of July and
 September 2009 and that the Claimant had over committed
 the supply and had supplied the contracted quantity to the
 third parties. 22 (m) In my view the claimant did not have the contracted
 material or it diverted the contracted material to a third
 party and therefore was unable to make the contracted
 material available under the Contract. The Claimant was
 therefore unable to supply the contracted material and was
 in breach itself. (n) The Claimant being itself in breach is not entitled to
 claim any damages.”

 The Dissenting Award also found that the Appellant had failed in

 discharging its burden of proving the quantum of damages as on the

 date of breach of the LTA. 8. The learned Single Judge, by a judgment dated 10.07.2015, after

 setting out the relevant facts, dismissed the Respondent’s plea of

 limitation and then found: vis the coal at new contract prices." The letter dated 21st
 September, 2009 when read as a whole and in the context
 of the above correspondence reflects what the majority
 Award has rightly understood, viz., that Anglo, far from
 repudiating the contract or bringing it to an end, was
 offering MMTC a way to spread out its obligation to lift the
 carry over quantity over the subsequent period.”

 A plea of bias levelled against one of the arbitrators, namely, Mr. Peter

 Leaver, was also rejected. It was found, after copious references to

 both oral and documentary evidence, that the view of the Majority

 Award, being a possible view on the Respondent being in breach and

 the Appellant having proven quantum of damages, that no ground

 under section 34 of the Arbitration Act for interfering with the Majority

 Award was made out. 9. The impugned judgment of the Division Bench dated 02.03.2020, after

 setting out the facts, the Majority Award and the Single Judge’s

 conclusions, based its decision on an appreciation of three emails

 between the parties, which were picked out of the entire

 correspondence, namely, emails dated 02.07.2009, 22.07.2009 and

 07.09.2009. The Division Bench referred to these as “critical emails”,

 finding: However there is no evidence to prove the market price of
 coal at that time. The question of mitigation of damages by
 the respondent has not even been alluded to.”

After setting out in some detail, the judgment in Associate Builders v.

DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49 [“Associate Builders”], the Division Bench

held as follows: "8. … Sections 94 to 98 of the Indian Evidence. Act afford guidance in the construction of
 documents; they also indicate when and under
 what circumstances extrinsic evidence could be 26 relied upon in construing the terms of a
 document. Section 94 of the Evidence Act lays
 down a rule of interpretation of the language of a
 document when it is plain and applies accurately
 to existing facts. It says that evidence may be
 given to show that it was not meant to apply to
 such facts. When a Court is asked to interpret a
 document, it looks at its language. If the
 language is clear and unambiguous and applies
 accurately to existing facts, it shall accept the
 ordinary meaning, for the duty of the Court is not
 to delve deep into the intricacies of the human
 mind to a certain one's undisclosed intention,
 but only to take the meaning of the words used
 by him, that is to say his expressed intentions.
 Sometimes when it is said that a Court should
 look into all the circumstances to find an author's
 intention, it is only for the purpose of finding out
 whether the words apply, accurately to existing
 facts. But if the words are clear in the context of
 the surrounding circumstances, the Court cannot
 rely on them to attribute to the author an
 intention contrary to the plain meaning of the
 words used in the document. The other sections
 in the said group of sections deal with
 ambiguities, peculiarities in expression and the
 inconsistencies between the written words and
 the existing facts. In the instant case, no such
 ambiguity or inconsistency exists as we shall
 demonstrate presently. The Privy Council's case
 was one of ambiguity and the surrounding
 circumstances gave the clue to find out the real
 intention of the parties expressed by them." In the present case, we find no reason to look for the
'undisclosed intention' of the respondent since the clear
and express words of the respondent, as contained in the
afore-cited e-mails/communications, are perfectly in accord
with and apply squarely to existing facts. We must
therefore accept the ordinary meaning of what is stated in
those emails/communications, namely that the respondent
did not have any coal available till the end of the year 2009
for supplying to the appellant. 27 35. Proceeding on this basis, by a majority, the Tribunal
 has awarded USD 78,720,414.92 as damages along with
 interest of USD 27,239,420.29 calculated upto the date of
 the award, along with 15% p.a. future interest on the
 principal sum, in addition to USD 977,395.00 as costs. This
 amount, calculated at the ballpark prevailing exchange rate
 of approximately USD 1 = INR 70 translates to INR
 7,48,56,06,115 that is to approximately INR 748 crores. In
 our view, such an award must rest on surer factual and
 legal footing than only to say that it has been rendered by
 an arbitral tribunal; and is therefore sacrosanct. In the
 above view of the matter, the award of damages, interest
 and costs is a travesty of justice and the award suffers from
 perversity. 36. In our consideration, the single Judge has also not
 appreciated the aforesaid basic aspects, upon which the
 decision of the majority of the Tribunal turns. While doing
 so the single Judge has therefore committed error in the
 proceedings under section 34 , which are amenable to be
 corrected in the present proceedings under section 37 . 37. In view of the above discussion, we set-aside the
 majority award dated 12.05.2014 as also order dated
 10.07.2015 of the single Judge made under section 34 of
 the A&C Act” 10. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the

 Appellant, painstakingly took us through the LTA and the entire

 correspondence that ensued between the parties. He argued that all

 the findings given by the Majority Award were findings of fact, there

 having been little dispute on the construction of any term of the LTA;

 no dispute as to the contracted quantity of coal that was to be supplied

 in the Fifth Delivery Period, i.e., 466,000 metric tonnes; no dispute as

 to the price at which such coal was to be supplied, i.e., at the rate of

 $300 per metric tonne; and no dispute as to the quantity of coal that 28 remained unlifted, i.e., 454,034 metric tonnes. The only issue before

 the Arbitral Tribunal was whether the Appellant was unable to supply

 the contracted quantity of coal at the contractual price, or whether the

 Respondent was unwilling to lift the quantity of coal at the contractual

 price, both being purely questions of fact as to the performance of

 contractual obligations stemming from the LTA. 11. Shri Sibal then argued that a crucial letter dated 11.03.2009, by which

 the Appellant requested the Respondent to propose a Delivery

 Schedule under the LTA, remained unanswered, the Majority Award

 having found as a matter of fact that the said letter was received by the

 Respondent. In any event, he argued that the Appellant’s letter dated

 21.09.2009, which referred to the letter dated 11.03.2009, would clinch

 the case in the Appellant’s favour, as this letter clearly referred to the

 delivery of the balance quantity of coal, giving a without prejudice offer,

 open and capable of acceptance until 30.09.2009. The Respondent’s

 only response to this was by a letter dated 25.09.2009, in which the

 obligation to lift coal at the contractual price was admitted, the

 Respondent asking for a reduction in price, without ever stating that it

 had not received the letter dated 11.03.2009. This, he argued, showed

 the Appellant’s willingness to perform the deliveries as per the LTA, by

 demanding a Delivery Schedule from the Respondent. His argument,

 therefore, was that the Majority Award and the learned Single Judge, 29 after referring to the entirety of the correspondence, arrived at the

 conclusion that the Respondent was in breach of the LTA, whereas the

 Division Bench arbitrarily picked out three emails out of the welter of

 correspondence between the parties, ignoring what was

 communicated before and after those three emails, thereby arriving at

 a faulty conclusion on facts, as if it were a court of appeal. 12. Shri Sibal also argued that to get over the parameters of judicial review

 of arbitral awards laid down in Associate Builders (supra), the

 Division Bench wrongly stated that there is “no evidence” to support

 the conclusion that the Respondent was seeking stems of coal at a

 reduced rate, below the contractual price, and pointed out several

 letters and emails showing this to be entirely incorrect. It was also

 entirely incorrect for the Division Bench to have concluded that there

 was “no evidence” to support the conclusion that the Appellant had

 coal available to supply to the Respondent, which would amount to

 ignoring the evidence of Mr. Wilcox, as well as the documentary

 evidence of the correspondence between the parties. Equally, he

 argued that the market price of coal at the relevant period was clearly

 proven by the figures supplied by Mr. Wilcox and therefore, for the

 Division Bench to state that there is “no evidence” to prove the market

 price of coal at the time of breach, was also completely incorrect. 30 13. Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned Senior Advocate, supplemented the

 submissions of Shri Sibal and stated that the overall context of the

 correspondence showed that the Respondent repeatedly asked for

 supplies to be made at a price lower than the contractual price

 throughout the Fifth Delivery Period, since it was clearly unable to lift

 coal at the price of $300 per metric tonne. Even when only two months

 in the Fifth Delivery Period were left, a maximum of 50,000 metric

 tonnes of “mixed” supply was asked for, at a “mixed” rate of $300 per

 metric tonne and at a rate much lower than that. He also referred to

 Mr. Wilcox’s testimony to argue that the Appellant was a major

 producer of coal and huge quantities of coal were produced at the time

 of the Fifth Delivery Period, in July 2009, which could have easily been

 supplied, had the Respondent demanded the balance unlifted quantity

 of 454,034 metric tonnes at the price of $300 per metric tonne. 14. Shri Mukul Rohatgi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of

 the Respondent, supported the impugned judgment of the Division

 Bench and took us through the correspondence between the parties,

 the Majority Award, the Dissenting Award, and the judgments of the

 learned Single Judge and the Division Bench. According to him, this

 Court ought not to interfere under Article 136 of the Constitution of

 India, given the fact that the Division Bench had not acted as a court of

 appeal, but had specifically followed the judgment in Associate 31 Builders (supra), in that, it found the present case to be a case in

 which “no evidence” was led on the crucial issues of breach, as well as

 quantum of damages. According to him, the three crucial emails that

 were relied upon by the Division Bench were correctly relied upon, as

 these emails would unequivocally show that the Appellant was not in a

 position to supply coal, and that the Respondent was in a position to

 take supplies, and did in fact demand that supplies of coal be made in

 accordance with the LTA. 15. Shri Rohatgi then referred to clause 7.2 and annexure IV of the LTA,

 dealing with the intimation of a Delivery Schedule, and stated that

 under the LTA, it was first incumbent upon the Appellant, as the seller,

 to ensure that sufficient quantities of coal were available, subsequent

 to which, the nomination of a vessel was to take place before a

 Delivery Schedule would be agreed upon between the parties. He

 argued, based on the emails and letters exchanged between the

 parties, that in point of fact, only one ad hoc shipment took place at a

 “mixed” rate, partially at the contractual price of $300 per metric tonne

 and partially at the rate of $128.25 per metric tonne, under which an

 ad hoc quantity of 50,000 metric tonnes was supplied in August 2008.

 It was thus clear that when the Appellant stated that it was “unable to

 confirm a stem in Aug/Sep” and that it did not have “any coal

 availability for the remainder of the year”, the Appellant breached and 32 repudiated the LTA. According to Shri Rohatgi, the three critical emails

 referred to by the Division Bench were crystal clear and unequivocal,

 and could not be contradicted by oral evidence, the Majority Award,

 therefore, being wholly incorrect in arbitrarily and capriciously relying

 upon statements by Mr. Wilcox, to attempt to explain what was

 unequivocally stated in these emails. He also added that the Division

 Bench’s conclusion of there being no evidence as to the market price

 of coal as on the date of breach was correct, and cited a number of

 judgments to buttress his submissions. 16. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties, there can

 be no doubt whatsoever that the Majority Award is a detailed award,

 which goes into the facts in great detail, outlines the issues to be

 answered, and then answers all the issues, with due regard to the oral

 and documentary evidence given in the case. 17. The first and most important point, therefore, to be noted is that this is

 a case in which there is a finding of fact by the Majority Award that the

 Appellant was able to supply the contracted quantity of coal for the

 Fifth Delivery Period, at the contractual price, and that it was the

 Respondent who was unwilling to lift the coal, owing to a slump in the

 market, the Respondent being conscious of the fact that mere

 commercial difficulty in performing a contract would not amount to

 frustration of the contract. It was for this reason that the Respondent 33 decided, as an afterthought, in reply to the Appellant’s legal notice

 dated 04.03.2010, to attack the Appellant on the ground that it was the

 Appellant that was unable to supply the contracted quantity in the Fifth

 Delivery Period. Once this becomes clear, it is obvious that the

 Majority Award, after reading the entire correspondence between the

 parties and examining the oral evidence, has come to a possible view,

 both on the Respondent being in breach, and on the quantum of

 damages. 18. We may hasten to add that the entire approach of the Division Bench

 is flawed. First and foremost, to cherry-pick three emails out of the

 entire correspondence and to rest a judgment on those three emails

 alone, without having regard to the context of the LTA and the

 correspondence, both before and after those three emails, would

 render the judgment of the Division Bench fundamentally flawed.

 Further, the finding that there was “no evidence” that the Respondent

 demanded stems of coal at a reduced rate vis-à-vis the contractual

 rate, flies in the face of at least three different exchanges between the

 parties, being the Respondent’s letters dated 20.11.2008, 27.11.2009

 and 03.12.2009. 34 19. Equally, the finding of the Division Bench that no evidence had been

 led to show that the Appellant had availability of the balance quantity of

 454,034 metric tonnes of coal to supply to the Respondent during the

 Fifth Delivery Period, again completely fails to appreciate Mr. Wilcox’s

 evidence given by way of an Additional Affidavit dated 03.09.2013 and

 in response to questions in cross-examination before the Arbitral

 Tribunal on 23.09.2013, together with two letters exchanged between

 the parties on 21.09.2009 and 25.09.2009. All of these aspects were

 considered in the Majority Award of the Arbitral Tribunal. 20. The finding that there is “no evidence” to prove market price of coal at

 the time of breach, and that therefore, quantum of damages could not

 be fixed, again completely ignores Mr. Wilcox’s evidence in chief and

 cross examination; the Respondent’s letters dated 25.09.2009,

 27.11.2009 and 03.12.2009; as also the Appellant’s re-negotiated

 contracts with SAIL/RINL. All these aspects have been considered by

 the Majority Award in great detail. 21. However, Shri Rohatgi invited us to look at the unequivocal language

 contained in the three emails relied upon by the Division Bench,

 namely the emails dated 02.07.2007, 22.07.2009 and 07.09.2009,

 which stated that not only were no stems available for

 August/September 2009, but that also there was no coal left for the

 remainder of the year, making it clear that this was an admission on 35 the part of the Appellant that it was unable to supply the contracted

 quantity of coal during the remainder of the Fifth Delivery Period.

 However, what is missed by Shri Rohatgi is the crucial fact that no

 price for the coal to be lifted was stated in any of the emails or letters

 exchanged during this period. This is in fact what the Majority Award

 adverts to and fills up by having recourse to the evidence given by Mr.

 Wilcox, stating that the ambiguity qua price was resolved by the fact

 that no coal was available for lifting at a price lower than the

 contractual price. The Majority Award found, relying upon Mr. Wilcox’s

 evidence, that the supplies that were sought to be made in August and

 September, 2009 were therefore, also in the nature of “mixed”

 supplies, i.e., coal at the contractual price, as well as coal at a much

 lower price. This is a finding of fact that cannot be characterised as

 perverse, as it is clear from the evidence led, the factual matrix of the

 setting of there being a slump in the market, in which the performance

 of the contract took place, as well as the ambiguity as to whether the

 correspondence referred to contractual price or “mixed” price, and

 thus, is a possible view to take. 22. The Division Bench also relied upon Smt. Kamala Devi v. Takhatmal

 and Anr. , (1964) 2 SCR 152, [“Smt. Kamala Devi”] which in turn,

 relied upon section 94 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 [“ Evidence

 Act ”], by which the Division Bench concluded that it found no reason 36 to look for the undisclosed intention of the parties, since the clear and

 express words contained in the three “crucial” emails were perfectly in

 accord with and applied squarely to the existing facts. Therefore, the

 ordinary meaning of what was stated in those emails must be

 accepted, without more, which led to the conclusion that the Appellant

 did not have any coal available till the end of the year (i.e., 2009) to

 supply to the Respondent. 23. The judgment in Smt. Kamala Devi (supra) dealt with the

 interpretation of a surety bond which was executed by the appellant in

 favour of the Court. A judgment of the Privy Council reported as

 Raghunandan v. Kirtyanand, AIR 1932 PC 131 was referred to, in

 which Lord Tomlin referred to an ambiguous surety bond which was to

 be considered in the surrounding circumstances of the facts in that

 case, i.e., in light of the order directing the security to be given. After

 setting out the judgment of the Privy Council, this Court then held: When a court is asked to interpret a document, it looks at
 its language. If the language is clear and unambiguous and
 applies accurately to existing facts, it shall accept the 37 ordinary meaning, for the duty of the Court is not to delve
 deep into the intricacies of the human mind to a certain
 one's undisclosed intention, but only to take the meaning of
 the words used by him, that is to say his expressed
 intentions. Sometimes when it is said that a Court should
 look into all the circumstances to find an author's intention,
 it is only for the purpose of finding out whether the words
 apply accurately to existing facts. But if the words are clear
 in the context of the surrounding circumstances, the Court
 cannot rely on them to attribute to the author an intention
 contrary to the plain meaning of the words used in the
 document. The other sections in the said group of sections
 deal with ambiguities, peculiarities in expression and the
 inconsistencies between the written words and the existing
 facts. In the instant case, no such ambiguity or
 inconsistency exists as we shall demonstrate presently.
 The Privy Council's case was one of ambiguity and the
 surrounding circumstances gave the clue to find out the
 real intention of the parties as expressed by them.”
 (page 162)

 Having so held, the Court then found that the surety bond did not need

 to be qualified by adding words to it when the words used in the bond

 were otherwise clear. Importantly, the words “in default of his doing so”

 were held by the Court to make it absolutely clear that the surety

 comes into effect only if the judgment debtor makes a default when

 required to produce the document. Adding that the surety bond has to

 be strictly construed, the Court held that a demand of the Court on the

 judgment debtor, and default made by him in so doing, were necessary

 pre-conditions for the enforcement of the bond against the appellant. 24. Section 1 of the Evidence Act states as follows: 25. This would be sufficient to keep the application of section 94 of the

 Evidence Act out of harm’s way. However, on the footing that the

 principle contained in section 94 of the Evidence Act, as to extrinsic

 evidence being inadmissible in cases of “patent ambiguity”, is

 fundamental to Indian jurisprudence, we proceed to examine whether section 94 of the Evidence Act has been correctly applied by the

 Division Bench to non-suit the Appellant. 26. Section 94 appears in Chapter VI of the Evidence Act titled, “OF THE

 EXCLUSION OF ORAL BY DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE”. In this

 regard, proviso (6) to section 92 of the Evidence Act is important and

 states as follows: 27. Importantly, section 92 of the Evidence Act refers to the terms of a

 “contract, grant or other disposition of property or any matter required

 by law to be reduced to the form of a document”. In all these cases,

 under proviso (6) read with illustration (f), any fact may be proven

 which shows in what manner the language of a document is related to

 existing facts. Illustration (f) of section 92 of the Evidence Act indicates

 that facts, which may on the face of it, be ambiguous and vague, can 40 be made certain in the contextual setting of the contract, grant or other

 disposition of property. Section 94 of the Evidence Act, then speaks of

 language being used in a document being “plain in itself”. It is only

 when such document “applies accurately to existing facts”, that

 evidence may not be given to show that it was not meant to apply to

 such facts. Likewise, the obverse situation is contained in section 95 of

 the Evidence Act, which then states that when the language used in a

 document is plain in itself, but is “unmeaning in reference to existing

 facts”, only then may evidence be given to show that it was used in a

 peculiar sense. 28. When sections 92 , 94 and 95 of the Evidence Act are applied to a

 string of correspondence between parties, it is important to remember

 that each document must be taken to be part of a coherent whole,

 which happens only when the “plain” language of the document is first

 applied accurately to existing facts. 29. In Woodroffe and Ali’s Law of Evidence,1 the learned authors opine

 that whereas sections 93 and 94 of the Evidence Act deal with cases

 of patent ambiguity, sections 95 to 97 of the Evidence Act deal with

 cases of latent ambiguity (see pages 3119-3120). A “patent ambiguity”

 is explained in the following terms in Starkie on Evidence2: “By patent ambiguity must be understood an ambiguity
inherent in the words, and incapable of being dispelled,
either by any legal rules of construction applied to the
instrument itself, or by evidence showing that terms in
themselves unmeaning or unintelligible are capable of
receiving a known conventional meaning, the great
principle on which the rule is founded is that the intention of
parties, should be construed, not by vague evidence of
their intentions independently of the expressions which
they have thought fit to use, but by the expression
themselves. Now, those expressions which are incapable
of any legal construction and interpretation by the rules of
art are either so because they are in themselves
unintelligible, or because, being intelligible, they exhibit a
plain and obvious uncertainty. In the first instance, the case
admits of two varieties; the terms though at first sight
unintelligible, may yet be capable of having a meaning
annexed to them by extrinsic evidence, just as if they were
written in a foreign language, as when mercantile terms are
used which amongst mercantile men bear a distinct and
definite meaning, although others do not comprehend
them; the terms used may, on the other hand, be capable
of no distinct and definite interpretation. Now, it is evident
that to give effect to an instrument, the terms of which,
though apparently ambiguous are capable of having a
distinct and definite meaning annexed to them is no
violation of the general principle, for, in such a case, effect
is given, not to any loose conjecture as to the intent and
meaning of the party, but to the expressed meaning and
that, on the other hand, where either the terms used are
incapable of any certain and definite meaning, or, being in
themselves intelligible, exhibit plain and obvious
uncertainty, and are equally capable of different
applications, to give an effect to them by extrinsic evidence
as to the intention of the party would be to make the
supposed intention operate independently of any definite
expression of such intention. By patent ambiguity,
therefore, must be understood an inherent ambiguity, which
cannot be removed, either by the ordinary rules of legal
construction or by the application of extrinsic and
explanatory evidence, showing that expressions, prima
facie, unintelligible, are yet capable of conveying a certain
and definite meaning.” 42 (page 653)

 On the other hand, a “latent ambiguity” is described in Woodroffe and

 Ali’s Law of Evidence, as follows: 30. At this stage, it is also important to advert to the definition of “fact” in section 3 of the Evidence Act, which is set out hereinbelow: Illustrations (a) That there are certain objects arranged in a certain
 order in a certain place, is a fact. (b) That a man heard or saw something, is a fact. (c) That a man said certain words, is a fact. (d) That a man holds a certain opinion, has a certain
 intention, acts in good faith or fraudulently, or uses a
 particular word in a particular sense, or is or was at a
 specified time conscious of a particular sensation, is a fact. (e) That a man has a certain reputation, is a fact.” 31. The picture that emerges, therefore, is that a “patent ambiguity”

 provision, as contained in section 94 of the Evidence Act, is only

 applicable when a document applies accurately to existing facts, which

 includes how a particular word is used in a particular sense. Given

 that, in the facts of the present case, there was no mention of the price

 at which coal was to be supplied in the three “crucial” emails, these

 emails must be read as part of the entirety of the correspondence

 between the parties, which would then make the so-called

 “admissions” in the aforementioned emails apply to existing facts.

 Once this is done, it is clear that there is no scope for the further

 application of the “patent ambiguity” principle contained in section 94 of the Evidence Act, to the facts of the present case. 32. However, section 95 of the Evidence Act, dealing with latent ambiguity,

 when read with proviso (6) and illustration (f) to section 92 of the

 Evidence Act, could apply to the facts of the present case, as when the 44 plain language of a document is otherwise unmeaning in reference to

 how particular words are used in a particular sense, given the entirety

 of the correspondence, evidence may be led to show the peculiar

 sense of such language. Thus, if this provision is applied, the Majority

 Award cannot be faulted as it has accepted the evidence given by Mr.

 Wilcox, wherein he explained that the three emails would only be

 meaningful if they were taken to refer to “mixed” supplies of coal, and

 not supplies of coal at the contractual price. 33. A judgment of the Court of Appeal in Singapore, in Zurich Insurance

 (Singapore) Pte Ltd v B-Gold Interior Design & Construction Pte

 Ltd, [2008] SGCA 27, discussed section 96 of the Evidence Act of

 Singapore, which is the equivalent of section 94 of the Indian Evidence

 Act. The Singapore Court of Appeal, after setting out the section, held: Furthermore, in order to ascertain whether the parties
intended to embody their entire agreement in the contract, 47 the court may take cognisance of extrinsic evidence or the
 surrounding circumstances of the contract. 113 Assuming that the contract is one to which the parol
 evidence rule applies, no extrinsic evidence is admissible
 to contradict, vary, add to or subtract from its terms (see s
 94 of the Evidence Act ).”
 (emphasis supplied)

Finally, in a synopsis at the end, the Court of Appeal held: (d) The extrinsic evidence in question is admissible so long
as it is relevant, reasonably available to all the contracting
parties and relates to a clear or obvious context. However,
the principle of objectively ascertaining contractual
intention(s) remains paramount. Thus, the extrinsic
evidence must always go towards proof of what the parties,
from an objective viewpoint, ultimately agreed upon.
Further, where extrinsic evidence in the form of prior
negotiations and subsequent conduct is concerned, we find
the views expressed in McMeel’s article and Nicholls’
article persuasive. For this reason, there should be no
absolute or rigid prohibition against evidence of previous
negotiations or subsequent conduct, although, in the
normal case, such evidence is likely to be inadmissible for
non-compliance with the requirements set out at [125] and
[128]–[129] above. (We should add that the relevance of
subsequent conduct remains a controversial and evolving
topic that will require more extensive scrutiny by this court
at a more appropriate juncture.) Declarations of subjective
intent remain inadmissible except for the purpose of giving
meaning to terms which have been determined to be
latently ambiguous. (e) In some cases, the extrinsic evidence in question leads
to possible alternative interpretations of the written words
(ie, the court determines that latent ambiguity exists). A
court may give effect to these alternative interpretations,
always bearing in mind s 94 of the Evidence Act . In arriving
at the ultimate interpretation of the words to be construed,
the court may take into account subjective declarations of
intent. Furthermore, the normal canons of interpretation
apply in conjunction with the relevant provisions of the Evidence Act , ie, ss 95–100. (f) A court should always be careful to ensure that extrinsic
evidence is used to explain and illuminate the written
words, and not to contradict or vary them. Where the court
concludes that the parties have used the wrong words,
rectification may be a more appropriate remedy.”
 (emphasis supplied) 49 34. The approach of the Singapore Court of Appeal has our broad

 approval, being in line with the modern contextual approach to the

 interpretation of contracts. When proviso (6) and illustration (f) to section 92 , section 94 and section 95 of the Evidence Act are read

 together, the picture that emerges is that when there are a number of

 documents exchanged between the parties in the performance of a

 contract, all of them must be read as a connected whole, relating each

 particular document to “existing facts”, which include how particular

 words are used in a particular sense, given the entirety of

 correspondence between the parties. Thus, after the application of

 proviso (6) to section 92 of the Evidence Act, the adjudicating authority

 must be very careful when it applies provisions dealing with patent

 ambiguity, as it must first ascertain whether the plain language of a

 particular document applies accurately to existing facts. If, however, it

 is ambiguous or unmeaning in reference to existing facts, evidence

 may then be given to show that the words used in a particular

 document were used in a sense that would make the aforesaid words

 meaningful in the context of the entirety of the correspondence

 between the parties. 35. This approach is also reflected in a recent judgment of this Court in Transmission Corpn. of Andhra Pradesh Ltd. v. GMR Vemagiri

 Power Generation Ltd. , (2018) 3 SCC 716, as follows: 50 36. The Division Bench’s reliance upon Smt. Kamala Devi (supra) to set

 aside the Majority Award is wholly misplaced. The ratio in Smt.

 Kamala Devi (supra) is contained in the words: 37. So read, the judgment in Smt. Kamala Devi (supra) accords with what

 has been held hereinabove. It is clear that the three critical emails

 have to be read in the surrounding circumstances of the entirety of the

 LTA and the correspondence which ensued between the parties. Once

 that exercise is undertaken, as was undertaken by the Majority Award,

 it is impossible to hold that the Majority Award is not a possible view on

 the facts of this case. The reliance of the Majority Award upon the

 correspondence between the parties pre-July and in September to

 December 2009, buttressed by Mr. Wilcox’s evidence, cannot

 therefore be said to be flawed. 38. Shri Rohatgi’s argument in support of the impugned judgment of the

 Division Bench that there is no evidence to demonstrate proof of

 damage suffered as on the date of breach, is also factually incorrect. It

 is well established that the arbitral tribunal is the final judge of the

 quality, as well as the quantity of evidence before it (see Sudarsan

 Trading Co. v. Govt. of Kerala , (1989) 2 SCC 38 at page 53). As was

 correctly pointed out by Shri Sibal, the Majority Award has taken into

 account Mr. Wilcox’s Affidavit dated 10.07.2013 and Additional Affidavit

 dated 03.09.2013 detailing the prices at which sales of coal were

 made to Chinese purchasers during the Fifth Delivery Period, which

 ended on 30.09.2009, being the date of breach as found by the

 Majority Award. In addition, contemporaneous correspondence, 52 including letters dated 27.11.2009 and 03.12.2009 were also relied

upon to show that the Respondent was itself seeking coal at roughly

the price of $128 per metric tonne, at around the same time. Hence,

the difference between the contractual price and market price was

arrived at as $173.383 per metric tonne, in accordance with the law laid down by this Court in Murlidhar Chiranjilal v. Harishchandra

Dwarkadas and Anr. , (1962) 1 SCR 653, as follows: 39. The Single Judge correctly appreciated this part of the case when he

 stated as follows: 40. This being the case, it is not possible to accept Shri Rohatgi’s

 argument that the letters dated 27.11.2009 or 03.12.2009 do not

 reflect the market price of coal as on the date of breach or that the 54 market price of coal cannot be established from the special long-term

 contracts operating at around the same time as the date of breach.

 This argument must therefore be rejected. 41. The present case is that of an international commercial arbitration, the

 Majority Award being delivered in New Delhi on 12.05.2014.

 Resultantly, this case has been argued on the basis of the law as it

 stood before the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 [“Amendment”] added two explanations to section 34(1) and sub-

 section (2A) to section 34 of the Arbitration Act, in which it was made

 clear that the ground of “patent illegality appearing on the face of the

 award” is not a ground which could be taken to challenge an

 international commercial award made in India after 23.10.2015, when

 the Amendment was brought into force. We, therefore, proceed to

 consider this case on the pre-existing law, which is contained in the

 seminal decision of Associate Builders (supra). 42. The judgment in Associate Builders (supra) examined each of the

 heads set out in Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co. ,

 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644, together with the addition of the fourth head

 of “patent illegality” laid down in ONGC Ltd. v. Saw Pipes Ltd., (2003) 55 5 SCC 705. Since we are concerned with the “perversity principle”, the

relevant paragraphs of this judgment are set out as follows: 32. A good working test of perversity is contained in two
 judgments. In Excise and Taxation Officer-cum-Assessing
 Authority v. Gopi Nath & Sons [1992 Supp (2) SCC 312], it
 was held: (SCC p. 317, para 7)

 “7. … It is, no doubt, true that if a finding of fact is
 arrived at by ignoring or excluding relevant
 material or by taking into consideration irrelevant
 material or if the finding so outrageously defies
 logic as to suffer from the vice of irrationality
 incurring the blame of being perverse, then, the
 finding is rendered infirm in law.”

 In Kuldeep Singh v. Commr. of Police [(1999) 2 SCC 10] , it
 was held: (SCC p. 14, para 10)

 “10. A broad distinction has, therefore, to be
 maintained between the decisions which are
 perverse and those which are not. If a decision is
 arrived at on no evidence or evidence which is 56 thoroughly unreliable and no reasonable person
 would act upon it, the order would be perverse.
 But if there is some evidence on record which is
 acceptable and which could be relied upon,
 howsoever compendious it may be, the
 conclusions would not be treated as perverse and
 the findings would not be interfered with.” 33. It must clearly be understood that when a court is
applying the “public policy” test to an arbitration award, it
does not act as a court of appeal and consequently errors
of fact cannot be corrected. A possible view by the
arbitrator on facts has necessarily to pass muster as the
arbitrator is the ultimate master of the quantity and quality
of evidence to be relied upon when he delivers his arbitral
award. Thus an award based on little evidence or on
evidence which does not measure up in quality to a trained
legal mind would not be held to be invalid on this score.
Once it is found that the arbitrators approach is not
arbitrary or capricious, then he is the last word on facts. In P.R. Shah, Shares & Stock Brokers (P) Ltd. v. B.H.H.
Securities (P) Ltd. [(2012) 1 SCC 594], this Court held: 34. It is with this very important caveat that the two
fundamental principles which form part of the fundamental
policy of Indian law (that the arbitrator must have a judicial
approach and that he must not act perversely) are to be
understood.”
 (pages 75-77)

“42. In the 1996 Act, this principle is substituted by the
“patent illegality” principle which, in turn, contains three
subheads: 42.3. (c) Equally, the third subhead of patent illegality is
really a contravention of Section 28(3) of the Arbitration
Act, which reads as under: An Arbitral Tribunal must decide in accordance with the
 terms of the contract, but if an arbitrator construes a term
 of the contract in a reasonable manner, it will not mean that
 the award can be set aside on this ground. Construction of
 the terms of a contract is primarily for an arbitrator to
 decide unless the arbitrator construes the contract in such
 a way that it could be said to be something that no fair-
 minded or reasonable person could do.”
 (page 81) 43. This judgment has been consistently followed in a plethora of

 subsequent judgments, including: e. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. v.

 Datar Switchgear Ltd. , (2018) 3 SCC 133 at paragraph 51

 (page 169); f. HRD Corpn. v. GAIL (India) Ltd. , (2018) 12 SCC 471 at

 paragraphs 18-19 (page 493); 59 g. M.P. Power Generation Co. Ltd. v. ANSALDO Energia

 SpA , (2018) 16 SCC 661 at paragraph 25 (page 679);

 h. Shriram EPC Ltd. v. Rioglass Solar Sa , (2018) 18 SCC 313

 at paragraph 34 (page 328); i. State of Jharkhand v. HSS Integrated Sdn , (2019) 9 SCC

 798 at paragraph 7 (page 804); and

 j. Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. NHAI , (2019)

 15 SCC 131 at paragraphs 20, 34-36 (pages 154, 169-170). 44. Given the parameters of judicial review laid down in Associate

 Builders (supra), it is obvious that neither the ground of fundamental

 policy of Indian law, nor the ground of patent illegality, have been

 made out in the facts of this case, given the fact that the Majority

 Award is certainly a possible view based on the oral and documentary

 evidence led in the case, which cannot be characterized as being

 either perverse or being based on no evidence. 45. However, Shri Rohatgi relied upon a number of recent judgments,

 which according to him, throw further light upon the elucidation of law

 in Associate Builders (supra). Thus, in MMTC Ltd. v. Vedanta Ltd. ,

 (2019) 4 SCC 163, this Court held: 12. It is only if one of these conditions is met that the Court
may interfere with an arbitral award in terms of Section
34(2)(b)(ii) , but such interference does not entail a review
of the merits of the dispute, and is limited to situations
where the findings of the arbitrator are arbitrary, capricious
or perverse, or when the conscience of the Court is
shocked, or when the illegality is not trivial but goes to the
root of the matter. An arbitral award may not be interfered
with if the view taken by the arbitrator is a possible view
based on facts. (See Associate Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3
SCC 49. Also see ONGC Ltd. v. Saw Pipes Ltd., (2003) 5
SCC 705; Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. Friends Coal
Carbonisation, (2006) 4 SCC 445; and McDermott
International Inc. v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd., (2006) 11 SCC 181) 13. It is relevant to note that after the 2015 Amendment to Section 34 , the above position stands somewhat modified.
Pursuant to the insertion of Explanation 1 to Section 34(2) ,
the scope of contravention of Indian public policy has been
modified to the extent that it now means fraud or corruption
in the making of the award, violation of Section 75 or Section 81 of the Act, contravention of the fundamental
policy of Indian law, and conflict with the most basic notions
of justice or morality. Additionally, sub-section (2-A) has
been inserted in Section 34 , which provides that in case of
domestic arbitrations, violation of Indian public policy also 61 includes patent illegality appearing on the face of the
award. The proviso to the same states that an award shall
not be set aside merely on the ground of an erroneous
application of the law or by reappreciation of evidence. 14. As far as interference with an order made under Section 34 , as per Section 37 , is concerned, it cannot be
disputed that such interference under Section 37 cannot
travel beyond the restrictions laid down under Section 34 .
In other words, the court cannot undertake an independent
assessment of the merits of the award, and must only
ascertain that the exercise of power by the court under Section 34 has not exceeded the scope of the provision.
Thus, it is evident that in case an arbitral award has been
confirmed by the court under Section 34 and by the court in
an appeal under Section 37 , this Court must be extremely
cautious and slow to disturb such concurrent findings. 15. Having noted the above grounds for interference with
an arbitral award, it must now be noted that the instant
question pertains to determining whether the arbitral award
deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not falling
within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or
contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the
submission to arbitration. However, this question has been
addressed by the courts in terms of the construction of the
contract between the parties, and as such it can be safely
said that a review of such a construction cannot be made in
terms of reassessment of the material on record, but only
in terms of the principles governing interference with an
award as discussed above. 16. It is equally important to observe at this juncture that
while interpreting the terms of a contract, the conduct of
parties and correspondences exchanged would also be
relevant factors and it is within the arbitrator's jurisdiction to
consider the same. [See McDermott International Inc. v.
Burn Standard Co. Ltd. , (2006) 11 SCC 181; Pure Helium
India (P) Ltd. v. ONGC, (2003) 8 SCC 593 and D.D.
Sharma v. Union of India, (2004) 5 SCC 325]. 17. We have gone through the material on record as well
as the majority award, and the decisions of the learned
Single Judge and the Division Bench. The majority of the 62 Arbitral Tribunal as well as the courts found upon a
 consideration of the material on record, including the
 agreement dated 14-12-1993, the correspondence
 between the parties and the oral evidence adduced, that
 the agreement does not make any distinction within the
 type of customers, and furthermore that the supplies to
 HTPL were not made in furtherance of any independent
 understanding between the appellant and the respondent
 which was not governed by the agreement dated 14-12-
 1993.”
 (pages 166-168) 46. Likewise, in Dyna Technologies Pvt. Ltd. v. Cromptom Greaves

 Ltd. , 2019 SCC Online SC 1656, [“Dyna Technologies”], this Court

 held: 47. In Parsa Kente Collieries Ltd. v. Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan

 Nigam Ltd. , (2019) 7 SCC 236, after referring to the parameters of

 review in Associate Builders (supra) and other cases, this Court

 found that with respect to the first claim, relating to price

 adjustment/escalation, the arbitrator interpreted the relevant clauses of

 the contract and came to a certain finding. The High Court, in

 interfering with that finding, was wrong in doing so merely because

 some other view could have been taken, as the interpretation made by

 the arbitrator was a possible one. The High Court’s judgment was,

 therefore, set aside to this extent. However, insofar as the second and

 third claims were concerned, on the facts of that case, the finding was

 said to be so perverse or irrational that no reasonable person could

 have arrived at the same, based on the material/evidence on record,

 as a result of which, the High Court’s judgment was upheld. 48. In South East Asia Marine Engg. & Constructions Ltd. (SEAMEC

 LTD.) v. Oil India Ltd. , (2020) 5 SCC 164, a three Judge Bench of this

 Court referred to the judgment of this Court in Dyna Technologies (supra) and found that the interpretation of the arbitral tribunal in

 expanding the meaning of clause 23 of the contract to include a

 change in rate of high-speed diesel, not being even a possible

 interpretation of the concerned contract, the High Court in setting aside 64 the award, could not be said to be incorrect. Also, other contractual

 terms when seen together with this interpretation would also render

 such finding perverse. 49. In Patel Engg. Ltd. v. North Eastern Electric Power Corpn. Ltd. ,

 (2020) 7 SCC 167, this Court, after setting out the law stated in Associate Builders (supra) and Ssangyong Engg. & Construction

 Co. Ltd. v. NHAI , (2019) 15 SCC 131, applied the test of perversity

 and then concluded: 50. All the aforesaid judgments are judgments which, on their facts, have

 been decided in a particular way after applying the tests laid down in Associate Builders (supra) and its progeny. All these judgments turn 65 on their own facts. None of them can have any application to the case

 before us, as it has been found by us that in the fact situation which

 arises in the present case, the Majority Award is certainly a possible

 view of the case, given the entirety of the correspondence between the

 parties and thus, cannot in any manner, be characterised as perverse. 51. Accordingly, the appeal stands allowed. The judgment of the Division

 Bench dated 02.03.2020 is set aside, thereby restoring the Majority

 Award dated 12.05.2014 and the Single Judge’s judgment dated

 10.07.2015 dismissing the application made under section 34 of the

 Arbitration Act by the Respondent. ………………....................... J. (ROHINTON FALI NARIMAN)

 ………………...................... J. (K.M. JOSEPH)
 New Delhi; December 17, 2020. 66