( Per M.S. SANKLECHA, J.)

 
 This appeal challenges the order dated 6 May 2013 of 
 the learned Single Judge vacating the order dated 28 January 
 
 2013 (passed on an application by the appellant) arresting M.V. 
 
 Rainbow Ace respondent No.1 vessel. The impugned order dated 6 
 May 2013 vacating the arrest of respondent No.1 vessel was on an 
 application taken out by the owner M/s. Rainbow Ace Shipping 
 

 S.A. Panama (applicant) of respondent No.1 vessel. 2) Facts leading to this appeal: (respondent No.2 company). This claim arises out of a voyage 

 charter party agreement dated 6 April 2011entered into between 
 the appellant as owners of a vessel M.V. J Tong and respondent 
 No.2 company as a charterer. company is covered by Article 1(f) and (g) of the International 
 Convention of Arrest of Ships 1999 ("Arrest Convention 1999"). Consequently, the appellant was entitled to secure its maritime 
 claim by proceeding against any vessel in the registered and/or 
 beneficial ownership of respondent No.2 Company in terms of the 

 
 Arrest Convention, 1999. c) The appellant's claim is that the beneficial owner of 
 
 respondent No.1 vessel is also the beneficial owner of respondent 
 No.2-Company. It is the case of the appellant that one Wang 
 Wendong is the common beneficial owner of respondent No.1 
 

 vessel as well as respondent No.2 company. The appellant's have 
 

 sought to establish the common beneficial ownership of 
 respondent No.1 vessel and respondent No.2 company in one 

 Wang Wendong by submitting the following chart: arrested at the instance of the appellant for its maritime claim 

 
 against respondent No.2 company. The case of the appellant as 
 made out in the plaint for the arrest of respondent No.1 vessel was 

 
 that it was in the beneficial ownership of respondent No. 2 
 company and that both respondent No.1 vessel and respondent 

 
 No.2 company are in the common beneficial ownership of one 
 Wang Wendong and/or one Shan Bing. e) On 11 February, 2013, the applicant took out a notice 
 
 of motion before the learned single judge seeking that the arrest of 
 respondent No.1 vessel by order dated 28 January 2013 be 
 
 vacated. In the application the applicant admit that it is 
 beneficially owned by Wang Wendong. However, it is denied that 
 respondent No.1 vessel is in the beneficial ownership of 
 

 respondent No. 2 company and that its beneficial owner Wang 
 

 Wendong has any interest in respondent No.2 company and much 
 less being its beneficial owner. Thus, the alleged maritime claim of 

 the appellant on respondent No.2 company could not be secured 
 by the arrest of respondent No. 1 vessel. f) On 6 May 2013, the learned Single Judge, by the impugned 

 order vacated the order of arrest dated 28 January 2013 in respect 
 of respondent No.1 vessel. The impugned order holds that though 
 respondent No.1 vessel was beneficially owned by Wang Wendong ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 6/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 the respondent No. 2 company was not. Therefore respondent 
 No.1 vessel and respondent No.2 company were not in the 

 
 common beneficial ownership of Wang Wendong. Thus the arrest 
 of respondent No.1 vessel was not warranted. The impugned 

 
 Order while disposing the application for vacation of arrest of 
 respondent No.1-vessel framed the following issues as arising 

 
 before him: i) Whether the International Convention 

 
 on the Arrest of Ships, 1999 can be applied to the 
 
 present dispute? ii) If yes, whether by virtue of Article 
 3(2) thereof, arrest of a ship beneficially owned by 
 the person against whom there is a maritime claim 
 

 in respect of another ship, is permissible? iii) Whether the 1st Defendant vessel is of 

 the beneficial ownership of defendant No.2? f) So far as issues (i) and (ii) are concerned, they were 
 answered in the affirmative and accepted by all the parties to the 

 present proceedings. The only issue which has been raised in the 
 present appeal is with regard to question (iii) above being 
 answered in the negative i.e. in favour of the respondent No.1 ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 7/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 vessel and against the appellant. The learned single judge also 
 records the fact that the case canvassed before him by the 

 
 appellant was not as raised in the plaint as formulated in 
 question (iii) above but the submission before him was that the 

 
 respondent No.1 vessel and the respondent No.2 company are in 
 the common beneficial ownership of one Wang Wendong. This 

 
 submission which is a facet of the issue raised in (iii) above was 
 also answered in the negative i.e. respondent No.2 company is not 
 in the beneficial ownership of Wang Wendong. Submissions:- 2 company by holding that they are not in the common beneficial 
 

 ownership of Wang Wendong. In support of the above challenge 
 

 following submissions are made:- This beneficial ownership can be established by lifting the ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 8/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 corporate veil of Respondent No. 2 company and thereafter by 
 lifting the corporate veil of Cartier as respondent No. 2 company 

 
 was established by Cartier; (b) In view of the laws in the State of Samoa, the names 
 of shareholders and directors of a company incorporated in Samoa 

 
 are not available for disclosure. However the ownership of Wang 
 Wendong of Cartier and in turn of respondent No. 2 company 
 along with the ownership of respondent No.1 vessel is established 

 
 by the following factors: (iii) A Common director by the name of Li Hang was in the 
 subsidiary of the applicant company and also in the 
 respondent No. 2 company; ASN 9/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc (iv) Common Signature on various fixture Notes which are 

 
 contracts of carriage entered into by the appellant with 
 respondent No.2 company as well as Win Star Co. Ltd. The 

 
 same person has also signed mortgage documents on behalf 
 of one Rainbow Shipping Ltd. which is a part of Rainbow 

 
 Group Companies of which Wang Wendong is the owner. (v) The appellant has a long association with Wang 

 
 Wendong since 1998. The appellants have stated that they 
 
 had met Wang Wendong at his office at China and 
 whenever they negotiated with Whim Star Group, it was 
 
 with Wang Wendong, its owner. (vi) The defunct Whim Star Co. Ltd., respondent No.2 
 

 company and the applicants along with its other group 
 

 companies were all having one ZJHX Shipping Co. Ltd. as 
 their common agent. The agency agreement entered into by 

 the first respondent vessel with M/s. ZJHX Shipping Co. Ltd. 
 is dated 1 March 2012 when in fact respondent no.1 vessel 
 was delivered on 4 September 2012 is also evidence of the 
 fact that they are all one and the same; (c ) Reliance was placed upon the decision of the Division 
 Bench of this Court in the matter of Great Pacific Navigation ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 10/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 ( Holdings) Corporation Ltd. vs. M.V. Tongli Yantai rendered on 14 
 October 2011 to contend that in almost similar facts the Division 

 
 Bench of this Court had reversed the order of the learned Single 
 Judge vacating the arrest of a vessel in that case . Thus the above 

 
 cases should be applied to the present case also; and (d) That for purposes of the arrest of respondent No.1 
 vessel, the appellant has merely to establish an a reasonably 
 arguable case i.e. prima facie case to be tried at the final hearing. In the meantime, respondent No.1 should be kept under arrest till 
 
 the respondents secure the maritime claim to be tried at the final 
 hearing. 4) On the other hand, Mr. Tulzapurkar, Senior Counsel 
 appearing for respondent No.1 vessel in support of the impugned 
 

 order submits as under: Consideration:- 6) There is no dispute between the parties that the 
 appellant i.e. the owner of respondent No.1-vessel is beneficially 
 owned by Wang Wendong. However Wang Wendong while not 

 
 disputing his beneficial ownership of respondent No.1 vessel has 
 
 filed an affidavit dated 8 February, 2013 before the learned single 
 judge denying that he is in any manner directly or indirectly 
 
 through the medium of Cartier or otherwise the beneficial owner 
 of respondent No.2 company. Notwithstanding the affidavit of 
 Wang Wendong (which is not proved to be false/incorrect) the 
 

 appellant seeks to establish the beneficial ownership of Wang 
 

 Wendong in respondent No. 2 by seeking to lift not only the 
 corporate veil of respondent No.2 Company but also of Cartier. 7) Before examining the issue on facts one would need to 
 examine as a pure question of law, whether it is permissible under 
 the Indian law to uphold the submission of the appellant that the 

 shareholder of an incorporated company has proprietary rights in 
 the assets of an incorporated company permitting the ignoring of 
 the separate identity of a Corporate entity. particular, in sub Article 1 and 2 of Article 3 permits the arrest of 
 vehicle and also provides in sub Article 3 thereof as under: "3. Notwithstanding the provisions of 
 paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article the arrest of a 

 
 ship which is not owned by the person liable for 
 the claim shall be permissible only if, under the 
 law of the State where the arrest applied for, a 
 judgment in respect of that claim can be enforced 

 
 against that ship by judicial of forced sale of that 
 ship." 9) While interpreting the above provision, the Supreme 
 
 Court in Liverpool and London S.P. & I Association Ltd. v. Sea 
 Success 2004(9) SCC 512 while holding that Arrest Convention 
 1999 would be applicable to India even though India is not a 
 

 signatory thereto has held that the same would be subject to a) 
 

 domestic law which may be enacted by Parliament and b) for 
 enforcement of the contract involving public law character. Therefore the issue to be examined is whether the Indian 
 corporate law accepts the proposition that in the absence of 
 allegation of fraud, it is open to ignore the independent corporate 

 identity of a limited company and to lift the corporate veil to 
 identify the shareholder as owner of the property of the limited 
 company. company incorporated under the Companies Act has a separate 
 and distinct legal entity from its shareholders and other 

 
 companies. Therefore, the mere fact that the two companies have 
 common shareholders or common Board of Directors will not 

 
 convert the two companies into a single entity. Similarly as far 
 back as in 1955 Supreme Court in Bacha F. Guzdar, Bombay Vs. 
 Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay AIR 1955 SC 74 held that 

 
 there is no warrant to assume that shareholder who buys shares of 
 
 the companies buys any interest in the property of the company. 
 This was on the basis that an incorporated company has an 
 
 identity different and distinct from that of its shareholders. The 
 submission of the appellant that the concept of beneficial owner by 
 itself implies the concept of lifting the corporate veil and in 
 

 support of which reliance is placed upon the decision of the Apex 
 

 Court in M.V. Elisabeth and ors. Vs. Harwan Investment and 
 Trading Pvt. Ltd. 1993 Supp. (2) SCC 433 as well as the decision 

 in Liverpool and London S.P. & I Association Ltd. v. Sea Success (supra) and the Calcutta High Court decision in Owners & Parties 
 Interested in the Vessel M.V. "Dong Do" and anr. v. Ramesh Kumar 
 & Co. Ltd. 2001 (2000) 1 CALLT 367 (H.C.). 11) We find that the submission of the appellant on the 
 above basis is not sustainable as in none of the cases did the court ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 16/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 permit the lifting of the corporate veil to make the shareholder of 
 an corporate entity the owner of a property belonging to the 

 
 incorporated company. In the case of M.V. Elisabeth (supra) the 
 issue which arose for consideration was the question of jurisdiction 

 
 viz. whether Andhara Pradesh High Court had jurisdiction in its 
 admiralty jurisdiction to proceed against a foreign ship owned by a 

 
 foreign company not having a place of business in India. The 
 arrested vessel viz. M.V. Elizabeth was the vessel against which a 
 maritime claim had arisen and no issue of lifting the corporate veil 

 
 arose. In the course of Judgment the Apex Court had observed in 
 
 Para 46 thereof that the jurisdiction can be invoked against a sister 
 ship i.e. a ship in the same beneficial ownership. In the present 
 
 case the arrest is being sought not of a sister ship i.e. a ship in the 
 ownership of the same person but a ship/vessel owned by a sister 
 company of the company against which maritime claim arose. In Liverpool and London S.P. & I Association Ltd. v. Sea Successc (supra) the issue for consideration was whether the non 
 payment of insurance premium gave rise to a maritime claim. The 

 premium was not paid in respect of vessels Sea Ranger and Sea 
 Glory. The vessels Sea Ranger, Sea Glory and Sea Success were 
 owned by the same owner. The vessel arrested was Sea Success. 
 No issue of lifting the corporate veil for the purpose of arresting 

 Sea Success arose. In the case of M.V. Dong Do (supra) Calcutta 
 High Court held that under the Indian Law, shareholders of a 
 company are not the owners of the assets of the corporate entity. ASN 17/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 The Court set aside the arrest of the vessel even though it was 
 alleged that both the vessels were ultimately owned by the 

 
 Socialist Republic of Vietnam through the medium of two limited 
 companies. The Calcutta High Court negatived the aspect of 

 
 beneficial ownership as extending to shareholders of an 
 incorporated entity and as an illustration pointed out that in India 

 
 various Government Companies are in existence who are 
 independent of each other having a distinct identity. Therefore a 
 ship belonging to Shipping Corporation of India cannot be said to 

 
 be a sister ship of a ship belonging to Oil & Natural Gas 
 
 Commission to enable the arrest of ship owned by one company 
 for the maritime claim arising in respect of another company. 12) Learned Single Judge of this Court in Admiralty Suit 
 (L) No.3547 of 2008 rendered on 22 December 2008 in Polestar 
 

 Maritime Limited Vs. M.V. QI LIN Men and others observed that 
 

 merely because the shareholders are common or their holding in 
 two different companies are common/identical would not make 
 the two companies one and the same entity. Similarly, the Gujarat 

 High Court in the matter of Croft Sales and Distribution Ltd. v. M.V. 
 Basil and 17 ors. in Civil Application No.73 of 2011 in Admiralty 
 Suit No.10 of 2010 rendered on 17 February 2011 the Gujarat 

 High Court held that shareholders are distinct and different from 
 the corporate entity and the two separate legal entities are so 
 regarded as independent of each other, and it is only in exceptional ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 18/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 circumstances such as fraud etc. that the Court would examine 
 question of lifting the corporate veil. 13) In this case it is not the case of the appellant that the 

 
 applicant company has been created so as to only defeat the 
 maritime claims against the respondent No.2 company. In the 

 
 present facts it is not the case of the appellant that the applicant 
 company is a subsidiary of the respondent No.2 company when 
 possibly it could be said that that the holding company is the 

 
 beneficial owner of the subsidiary company. In cases where two 
 
 independent companies are both 100% subsidiary of a common 
 holding company then it may be possible to contend that the 
 
 beneficial owner of both the companies is the common holding 
 company. These are not the facts in the present case as the 
 applicant company and the respondent No.2 company are not 
 

 subsidiaries of one common holding company or have subsidiary 
 

 and holding company relationship inter se. 14) The above principle of a corporate identity being 

 distinct from its shareholders and its shareholders not being 
 owners of the property of the company has been consistently 
 followed/applied in Admiralty proceedings by British Courts as 

 well. In the matter of The EVPO AGNIC (1988) 2 Lloyds Law 
 Report 411 the case of the plaintiff was that one Evangelos or his 
 company Pothicos Shipping Company was the real owner of two ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 19/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 ships one Skipper 1 (maritime claim arose) and Evpo Agnic (ship 
 sought to be arrested). The ownership of the two ships were in two 

 
 independent companies though having the same mangers and 
 shareholders with the ultimate ownership of both the limited 

 
 companies being found to be in Evangelos or his company. The 
 argument of the plaintiff was that on lifting the corporate veil it 

 
 would be found that one and the same person was the beneficial 
 owner of the two companies. This submission was rejected on the 
 ground that the arrest could not be made of the ship of a sister 

 
 company but arrest could only be made of the sister ship i.e. ship 
 
 of which the owners was the same as the ship in respect of which 
 the maritime claim arose. The court vacated the arrest of the 
 
 vessel Evpo Agnic holding that the ships are owned by two 
 different limited companies which own them. It is the limited 
 company and not its shareholders who are the legal and equitable 
 

 owners of the ship. 15) The appellant placed reliance upon the decision of the 

 Division Bench of this Court in Great Pacific Navigation 
 (Holdings) Corporation Ltd. V. M.V. Tongli Yantai rendered on 14 
 October 2011 on the ground that on similar facts, this Court had 
 allowed the appeal of the appellant therein and set aside the 

 vacation of the arrest of the vessel. The aforesaid decision 
 rendered by this Court on 14 October 2011 has been set aside by 
 the Apex Court in Civil Appeal No.8988 of 2012 in M.V. Tongli Vs. ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 20/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 Great Pacific Navigation (Holdings) Corporation Ltd. on 12 
 December 2012. In view of the fact that the decision of the 

 
 Division Bench of this Court dated 14 October 2011 has been set 
 aside, no reliance can be placed upon the judgment which has 

 
 been set aside. It is as though it never existed. In fact in 
 Ramchandra Vishnu Tendulkar and ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra 

 
 and ors. (1993) 1 Mah. L.J. 892 this Court has held that once a 
 Judgment of the Division Bench was set aside by the Apex Court 
 then neither the observations and/or conclusion of the judgment 

 
 that has been set aside can be relied upon. Consequently, reliance 
 
 upon the aforesaid decision in the matter of M.V. Tongli (supra) 
 rendered on 14 October 2011 is completely misplaced. Therefore, 
 
 no occasion to consider the same for the disposal of this appeal can 
 arise. 16) In these circumstances, the arrest of respondent No.1 
 

 vessel is not justified as a matter of law and the order passed by 
 the leaned Single Judge cannot be found fault with. 17) In view of our above finding that arrest of respondent 
 No.1 vessel in the present facts is not warranted on an issue of 
 law the consideration of the other submission such as a common 

 director between the respondent No.2 company and a subsidiary of 
 the applicant company, common agent and common signature 
 would all warrant lifting the corporate veil of the respondent No. ::: Downloaded on - 27/08/2013 21:02:12 ::: ASN 21/24 Appeal(L)228-13 (copy).doc

 2 company to determine its beneficial owner would not arise. The 
 entire basis for looking at surrounding circumstances arises 

 
 according to the appellant in view of the fact that 100% 
 shareholding of respondent No.2 company is held by Cartier which 

 
 is a company incorporated in Samoa. However under the laws of 
 Samoa the names of the directors, shareholders are not required to 

 
 be disclosed. It is submitted by the appellant that in view of the 
 aforesaid peculiar situation that appellant is unable to establish 
 beyond doubt the ownership of the Wang Wendong in Cartier and 

 
 through it in respondent No.2 company. However the necessity to 
 
 examine the surrounding circumstances and proceed on suspicion 
 that Wang Wendong is the beneficial owner of respondent No. 2 
 
 company is obviated for the reason that Wang Wendong who is 
 alleged by the appellant to be the beneficial owner of respondent 
 No.2 company has filed an affidavit dated 8 February 2013 before 
 

 the learned Single Judge wherein, he inter alia states as under:- Therefore, in the present facts, no fault can be found in the 
 impugned order dated 6 May 2013. considering the application for vacation of said arrest of the vessel, 

 
 the Court is required to consider not only the prima facie case but 
 balance of convenience and irreparable injury involved in the 

 
 matter. The above proposition is indisputable. However, a prima 
 facie case cannot be built merely on suspicion. The arrest of the 

 
 vessel on the basis of the suspicion raised certainly causes more 
 injury to a third party than the plaintiff. Thus, the balance of 
 convenience would be against the arrest of the vessel. In the case 

 
 of Aventicum 1978 Vol. I LLOYD's Law Reports 184 Queen's Bench 
 
 Division (Admiralty Court) has held that onus is upon the plaintiff 
 to show that the person against whom it is sought to invoke 
 
 Admiralty jurisdiction is the person who beneficially owns both the 
 vessel in respect of which maritime claim has arisen as well as 
 the vessel which is sought to be arrested. The Court found that 
 

 there were a number of factors to indicate that there is very close 
 

 connection between two companies such as common address etc. 
 yet the Court on the basis of the evidence before it held that there 

 was no positive evidence produced by the plaintiff which could 
 establish the beneficial ownership of the vessel sought to be 
 arrested is in the same person as in respect of the vessel in which 
 maritime claim arose. The appellant has not been able to establish 

 that even prima facie that respondent No.2 vessel is in the 
 beneficial ownership of Wang Wendong. In the circumstances the 
 impugned order has to be upheld. the well reasoned order of the learned Single Judge dated 6 May 

 
 2013 setting aside the arrest done on 28 January 2013 of 
 respondent No.1 vessel. Accordingly, the appeal is, dismissed with 

 
 no order as to costs. After pronouncement of the judgment, learned Counsel 
 
 for the appellant prays for continuing the ad-interim stay granted 
 earlier in order to enable the appellant to have further recourse in 
 accordance with law. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the ad-
 interim stay granted earlier will continue for a period of 2 weeks 

 from today. CHIEF JUSTICE 

 M. S. SANKLECHA, J.