This is a special newsletter that went out to MediaNama subscribers on August 17, 2023.

The Monsoon session of the Parliament has concluded and a lot has happened, apart from the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill , inside and outside the Parliament. Welcome to this month’s edition of our Talking Points newsletter, where we bring you a curated list of things to think about in tech policy: topics you’d like to sit with, mull over, and discuss in your circle.

Under India’s data protection law, AI may have legal backing to scrape users’ data [Vallari Sanzgiri]

It is a well-known fact that AI companies largely rely on publicly available data to train their models. Conversations with chatbots like Google Bard have led to discovery that AI actively tries to scrape publicly available data on social media. What’s interesting is that while other countries like Italy, Canada, etc. are investigating AI for scraping data from the internet, India’s data protection law seems to have given free reign to these companies. And this sanction via the law matters because our aforementioned conversation with AI chatbots have shown that such technologies are keen on scraping data even when there are explicit regulations against this. What does this mean for India users’ privacy and copyright rights?

Can the real ‘online game’ please stand up? [G. Aarathi]

“What’s in a name? That which we call a rose, by any other word would smell as sweet,” wrote William Shakespeare many moons ago. Those immortal lines are all I can think of ever since the GST Council decided to hike the tax slab for ‘online gaming’ to 28% at par with gambling in July. After all, no one in this country is still sure what ‘online gaming’ actually means—but everyone claims to be an online game. According to the revenue secretary, the tax slab actually applies to online games involving wagering, like real money skill games (think rummy, pokers, and more). But, real money skill games companies reportedly thought they were different from fantasy games, and should be taxed differently under the new slab. Then, esports and video games industry groupings piped up in statements and letters to the government —saying that they’re certainly not the same type of online games that real money skill games are. To top it all off, India’s online gaming rules don’t actually distinguish between any of these games at all, simply leaving it to private self-regulatory bodies to approve ‘permissible’ online real money games of skill (what a mouthful). So, everyone’s an online game, but no one wants to be clubbed under the government’s tax slab for online gaming. The bottom line: how can a policy environment or sector thrive amidst this much industry infighting over what ‘online gaming’ actually means?

How to tackle the cat-and-mouse game between Apple and fake loan apps [Sarvesh Mathi]

Fake, predatory loan apps get featured on the Top Finance Apps chart on Apple App Store, this gets pointed out on Twitter, and the company then takes them down and bans the developer accounts behind these apps. A few days later, new fake apps pop up on the very same list and this cycle continues . This is what’s been happening over the last few weeks. What’s worse, these apps are buying advertising from Apple to promote the apps on top of search results and the company is gladly giving it to them unaware of the repercussions .  This begs the question, doesn’t Apple have strong enough moderation checks to keep these apps out or at least stop them from advertising? A person familiar with the issue explained that these apps were submitting fake documents to support their case and hence got cleared by Apple’s moderation process.  This is where the recent proposals by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance might help. The Committee essentially proposed a whitelist framework which contains names of loan apps that are allowed to exist on app stores and also the creation of a Central Negative Registry, which will have information on fraudsters’ bank accounts and the official documents they have utilized to previously avail services. In theory it sounds like a good solution, but in practice, it might not be that effective as fraudsters might continue to find ways around as long as there are lucrative rewards involved. So what’s the solution? If you’ve got any suggestions please reach out to us .

Will an ONDC-like platform for education alter the way government schemes, scholarships function currently? [Sarasvati T]

EkStep Foundation, a private organisation which has been facilitating digital infrastructure capabilities for multiple government’s education projects, recently announced its plans to create an ‘Open Network for Education Skilling Transaction’ (ONEST) — a one-stop platform that is expected to provide access to education-related services, schemes, scholarships, and employment opportunities. In addition to private education service providers like Ed-tech companies, skilling startups, and job providers, ONEST will also work with government entities to facilitate scholarship opportunities. EkStep’s plans to create a platform similar to Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC) comes at a time when the Education Ministry has proposed to implement a registry system for creating an interoperable network of stakeholders in the education sector and for unifying education records. The education registry project, for which EkStep has served as a task force-member, indicates the government’s plans to onboard private Edtech companies. The ONEST concept paper also mentions utilising registries for verification of users, without offering details on what kind of registries. It is worth questioning whether ONEST will then function as one of the components of the education registry system? If yes, then in what capacity will it work with government entities ? Scholarships are provided by multiple government departments; how will these be brought into the ONEST ecosystem? It is also important to see if the launch of ONEST will lead to changes in the government’s approach towards improving access to public education schemes.

NIXI continues its streak of bad decisions [Sarvesh Mathi]

The .in domain space keeps getting less appealing thanks to its warden the National Internet Exchange of India (NIXI). First, it came up with the unnecessary requirement that one has to get the NIXI CEO’s approval to buy more than two .in domains, then it said that users will have to submit KYC verification , and now it’s proposing a new rule that will prohibit domain registrants from reselling .in domain names at a premium. An internet group has lambasted NIXI for the latest proposal. NIXI isn’t dealing with anything new that other domain space operators haven’t grappled with, so why can’t it just adopt international best practices rather than try to come up with new solutions that could hurt the future of the .in domain space?

Will the regulation of digital devices be considered under the Digital India Act? [Vallari Sanzgiri]

In July, the Central Government came up with the gazette notification for the National Medical Devices Policy to promote the medical device industry. Yet oddly enough there was no mention about wearable health devices or the measures for their data safeguards in this policy. We hoped that the regulation for such devices with sensitive personal data would either be mentioned in this policy or India’s data protection law at least. But now that we’ve hit 0 for 2, it may be worth turning our attention towards the Digital India Bill perhaps? The last time Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar talked about this Bill , there was talk about setting up guardrails around emerging technologies from a user harms perspective. Now the call for data security safeguards does come from a user harms perspective. So, while the Minister has said there will be “no specific dos and don’ts” in the Bill, is this the law that companies will have to look towards to fully understand India’s medical devices policy?

“If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck.” [Sarvesh Mathi]

This is essentially the message the RBI Deputy Governor gave to fintech companies earlier in July, hinting at more regulations for fintech companies to level the regulatory field between them and regulated entities like banks and Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFC). The deputy governor’s argument, which is hard to argue with, is that fintechs provide the same underlying service as banks: loans, deposits, payments, etc. just through a different channel that might be more accessible, quicker, and cheaper. But this message from the governor could be harmful to the burgeoning fintech sector because banking is one of the most heavily regulated industries in the country and if fintechs are going to be subjected to similar regulations, it might discourage a lot of them from setting up shop in India.

What exactly does the future of cross-border data flows look like? [G. Aarathi]

India’s latest data protection law has gone on a rather impressive diet —to the extent that pages of earlier clauses elaborating on the nitty-gritties of cross-border data transfers have now been sluiced down to a slender two provisions. The problem: those provisions still don’t tell us much about how the government will restrict and approve data transfers abroad. For example, transfers are allowed to any country, except to those restricted by the government. But, on what basis will those countries be restricted? By when will they be restricted? And, is this list indefinite—once you’re on it, can you ever be taken off it? As importantly, can a good country be suddenly switched to the naughty list and on what basis? Is data localisation still on the cards, or like last year , will we have to read between the lines of the bill’s two sections to figure that out? All these questions, among many others, still remain unanswered, leaving businesses dependent on data flows still rather clueless about what their operations will look like in the long run. In brevity surely doesn’t lie greatness.

Airtel’s loss is Jio’s victory: JioCinema becomes a success story despite the complaint made by Airtel [Kamya Pandey]

In July this year, Reliance Industries Limited released the transcript of its earnings. One of the most interesting aspects of these earnings was that JioCinema garnered success because of its free live stream of the Men’s Cricket Indian Premier League (IPL). What’s interesting to note here is that while streaming IPL contributed to JioCinema’s growth, it also resulted in Airtel filing a complaint against it to the TRAI. Airtel asked TRAI to prohibit telecom companies from offering differential pricing content on their applications if it is also available on DTH and Cable TV channels. In response to this complaint, Jio said that since OTT platforms are currently unregulated, claims of predation and a non-level playing field are irrelevant because there cannot be a level playing field between regulated services (like TV channels) and non-regulated services. And while the situation has currently ended in Jio’s favor, this leaves one wondering: will there soon be rules to create a balance between the two?

Is providing internet services to selective connections a better alternative to complete bans? [Sarasvati T]

After over 75 days of complete internet ban and ensuing humanitarian crisis in Manipur, the State government decided to partially lift internet ban only for broadband services like Internet Lease Line (ILL) and Fibre to the home (FTTH) connections on July 25. Based on Manipur High Court’s order, mobile data services and internet access through virtual private networks or VPNs continue to remain suspended in Manipur. Will partial lifting of internet ban ensure equitable access to critical online services for communities most-affected by the violence that has gripped the State since May this year? Further, it is important to note that most of the residents from the aggrieved communities, like the Kuki-Zomi members, live in the hills and rely on mobile data services for communications. While citizens petitioned at the Supreme Court that the State government’s move to cut off internet access for a prolonged period infringed upon their fundamental rights and proved to be a disproportionate move, the Courts have refrained from engaging in the proportionality argument. In a conflict-ridden zone, it is imperative that the government lift the internet ban in its entirety to enable citizens to access adequate information on developments and help to secure themselves. How will the Manipur government then ensure that the move to partially lift the internet ban has been effective in bringing normalcy in the lives of the displaced people as well as in curbing further unrest?

Replacing your employees with AI and then bragging about it: Dukaan lays off 90% of its customer support team [Kamya Pandey]

Suumit Shah, the CEO of the enterprise e-commerce startup Dukaan announced on July 10 that his company has laid off 90% of its support staff and replaced them with an AI chatbot. He pointed out how doing so had brought down the time taken to first respond to a customer’s complaint from 1 minute and 44 seconds to almost an instantaneous response. He also mentioned that his company had created Bot9.ai, a chatbot that will allow companies to do the same. One of the concerns people have about generative AI is that it will lead to job losses and the fact that Dukaan has created a service that will allow other companies to do the same only gives more merit to this fear.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event