The United States Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has announced the NIST GenAI program to evaluate and measure the capabilities and limitations of generative AI technologies as part of the actions taken by the department to fulfil objectives outlined under President Joe Biden’s October 2023 AI Executive Order. Additionally, the NIST has also announced publication of four guidance documents focusing on risk management, ensuring security, and trustworthiness of AI systems.

President Joe Biden had issued an Executive Order on October 30, 2023, outlining measures to be undertaken by various government departments for ensuring AI safety and security, citizen privacy, equity, protection of consumers and workers’ rights, and promoting competition and innovation. On April 29, 2024, the US White House announced a list of actions, reported by federal agencies, completed in 180 days of the Executive Order.

Under the Executive Order, the US Department of Commerce was tasked with developing frameworks for content-authentication and watermarking to label AI-generated content, to enable differentiation between AI-generated and original content.

In line with the Order, NIST GenAI will serve as a platform for Test and Evaluation of generative AI technologies and will inform the work of the US AI Safety Institute.

The NIST GenAI evaluation will mainly focus on

The NIST GenAI pilot study is being undertaken to understand system behaviour towards human-generated content and synthetic content. The primary focus of the pilot study is to understand how the two types of content differ from each other, and how the evaluation findings can assist in guiding users in differentiating between the two.

Additionally, the NIST has also published four guidance documents covering various aspects of AI development and deployment. These papers include:

In addition to the tasks undertaken by the NIST, other departments of the US government have informed of the following completed actions:

The President’s Executive Order had highlighted the objective for promotion of AI for innovation and competition. The Order directed agencies to leverage the National AI Research Resource, which provides access to key AI resources and data, to expand AI research and also increase grants for studies in areas like healthcare and climate change. In line with the requirements, the US Department of Energy (DoE) has now reported several actions directed towards increasing funding for AI application of AI in science, including energy-efficient AI algorithms and hardware. The DoE is also looking into exploring use of AI for deployment of clean energy, and advancing clean energy economy, among other objectives.

The federal agencies were also directed to accelerate hiring of AI professionals in public sector and provide AI training for all employees at all levels across various sectors. Federal agencies are focusing on hiring individuals equipped with AI skills and talents, through the government’s AI and Tech Talent Task Force. The White House informed that agencies have hired over 150 AI professionals and are planning to hire hundreds such individuals by Summer 2024. These individuals are mainly responsible for assisting agencies in their efforts for using AI, advising on AI investments, and drafting AI related policies for the government. The DHS has also informed that it will be hiring 50 AI professionals to build “safe, responsible, and trustworthy” AI for service delivery and homeland security.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event