Argued by:Sh.Gur Rattan Pal, Advocate for the
complainant. Sh. Sandeep Suri, Advocate for
the Opposite Party. PER MRS. NEENA SANDHU, MEMBER. The
facts, in brief, are that the complainant, who is still living abroad, handed
over a Karnatka Banks cheque No.325070 dated 21.04.2009 amounting to Rs.50
Lacs (Annexure C-1) to one Rajinder Bhateja, the then Manager of HDFC Bank,
Branch Sector -9, Chandigarh, for getting the same deposited in her HDFCs Bank
Account bearing No.13061600001300. It was stated that later on, said Rajinder
Bhateja came out to be a big fraudster, as he swindled crores of rupees of the
Bank depositors, as published in Indian Express dated 17.04.2010, showing he (Rajinder
Bhateja) being taken to the Police Station, on the charge of having
fraudulently withdrawn lakhs of rupees of the depositors. It was further stated
that the said Rajinder Bhateja, in connivance with the officials of the Bank
opened a forged account of the complainant, with the OP Bank, on the basis of
forged documents, including forged Pan Card and Bank Opening Account Form. It
was further stated that said Rajinder Bhateja deposited the said cheque of
Rs.50 Lacs in ICICI Account No.00581016825, after getting the same withdrawn from
the Karnataka Bank on 27.04.2009 as was clear from Annexure C-3. It was further
stated that the Karnatka Bank issued letter (Annexure C-4) and fully supported
the above fact that the cheque money of Rs.50 Lacs was paid to the ICICI Bank
by it. It was further stated that the Opposite Party Bank also wrote a letter
to the Police Station, in this regard, throwing light as to how the complainant
was deprived of her hard earned money. It was further stated that a letter
(Annexure C-8) was also written by the SHO, Police Station Mataur, Mohali to
the Opposite Party-Bank showing that FIR No.85 U/Ss 420, 465, 467, 4687, 471,
120-B IPC was already registered on 29.09.2010. It was further stated that
neither any action has been taken so far, by the Police, despite the repeated
requests of the complainant, to do the needful, nor the Bank has repudiated her
claim. It was further stated that the aforesaid acts of the Opposite Party,
amounted to deficiency, in rendering service, as also indulgence into unfair
trade practice. When the grievance of the complainant, was not redressed, left
with no alternative, a complaint under Section 17 of the Consumer Protection
Act, 1986 (hereinafter to be called as the Act only), was filed, for directing
the Opposite Party, to return Rs.50 Lacs back to the complainant alongwith
interest besides compensation, towards mental agony and physical harassment and
as costs of litigation. 2. The
Opposite Party, in its written version, took up the preliminary objection, with
regard to the maintainability of the complaint. It was stated that the
complaint was barred by time. It was further stated that the dispute relates to
the alleged fraud and forgery, in respect of which, already a police complaint
is pending and is under investigation and, as such, the dispute cannot be
decided under the summary jurisdiction of the Consumer Fora. It was further
stated that neither any part of cause of action had arisen within the territorial
jurisdiction of this Commission, nor the office of the OP Bank is situated at
Chandigarh. It was further stated that the complainant did not fall within the
definition of a consumer, as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, because
as per her own admission, she had not opened the account with the OP Bank,
which was fraudulently opened by one Rajinder Bhateja. It was further stated
that the said Manager Rajinder Bhateja, of HDFC Bank, has not been impleaded as
a necessary party, to the complaint. 3. On merits, it was stated that
as per the admission of the complainant herself, the alleged account, in her
name was fraudulently opened with the Opposite Party Bank by one Rajinder
Bhateja, Manager of HDFC Bank. However, it was further stated that cogent and
convincing evidence was required to be led by the complainant, to prove that
the account was fraudulently opened and not by her. It was further stated that
it was also required to be ascertained as to whether the complainant herself
provided the necessary documents for the purposes of opening the said account
or had authorized Sh. Rajinder Bhateja, Manager, HDFC Bank to do so. It was
further stated that it was also required to be proved by leading evidence, as
to what was the role of the said Manager of HDFC Bank to whom the complainant
had handed over the cheque, for the purpose of encashment. It was further
stated that the evidence was also required to be led as to whether the actions
of the HDFC Bank and that of the said Manager were being performed in the
capacity of a representative of HDFC Bank, then how the Opposite Party Bank was
responsible for the misdeeds of any agent/representative/manager of another
Bank. 4. It was further stated that
no reliance on any averments, in the complaint, could be placed because the
complainant admittedly was not in India, at the time of filing of the complaint,
as well as at the time of signing the affidavit. It was further stated that in
case the story set up by the complainant is to be accepted as correct, then,
the deficiency/negligence/fraud, if any, was committed by the HDFC Bank,
through its agent/Branch Manager, for which the OP Bank could not be held
liable for any deficiency, in rendering service, or indulgence into unfair
trade practice. It was further stated that fraud having been committed prior to
16.04.2010, was very well in the knowledge of the HDFC Bank as a complaint in
respect of the same had already been made against the said Bank. It was,
however, denied that the alleged documents were prepared under forgery,
specially Annexure C-7, which was the e-mail sent by the complainant herself. It
was further stated that since, the complainant herself raised allegations of
fraud and forgery, the matter should be relegated to the Civil Courts for
redressal of her grievances, and the
same cannot be decided by the Consumer Fora, under summary procedure. It was
further stated that neither there was any deficiency, in rendering service, on
the part of the Opposite Party, nor it indulged into unfair trade practice. The
remaining averments, were denied, being wrong. 5. The complainant, in support of her
case, submitted her affidavit, by way of evidence, alongwith which, a number of
documents were attached. 6. Opposite Party, in support of its
case, submitted the affidavit of Sh. Himendra Pal Singh, Manager, ICICI Bank
Limited, SCO No.127-128, Sector 9, Chandigarh, by way of evidence, alongwith
which, number of judgments were attached. 7. Alongwith
the complaint, an application for condonation of delay, in filing the same (complaint),
has been moved. The grounds, set up, in the application, by the
applicants/appellants, as also in Para No.10 to 12 of the complaint, are to the
effect, that the F.I.R No.85 was registered on 29.09.2010 and since, then no
action had been taken by the Police despite the repeated requests made by the
complainant. It was stated that there was continuing cause of action, and,
therefore, the question of limitation did not arise. It was further stated that
the complaint was very well within the time. It was further stated that the
Commission could exercise its discretionary powers under Section 24-A(2) of the
Consumer Protection Act, 1986 for relaxing the period of limitation and condone
the delay, if any. It was further stated that the delay, in filing the complaint,
was neither intentional, nor deliberate. Accordingly, the prayer, referred to
above, was made. 8. In reply, to the application for
condonation of delay, filed by the Opposite Party, it was stated that no
affidavit in support of the grounds taken in the application for condonation of
delay, has been filed by the complainant. It was further stated that neither
the application for condonation of delay has been signed by the complainant nor
the verification clause has been verified, wherein it is mentioned that the
complainant left for abroad on 22.11.2012 and her Advocate was fully competent
to verify the contents thereof, on her behalf. It was further stated that cause
of action accrued to the complainant for filing the present complaint on
27.04.2009, when the cheque, in question, was en-cashed, and she could have
filed the complaint up-to April 2011, but she chose to file the complaint on
22.11.2012, which was hopelessly time barred. It was, therefore, prayed that
the complaint, being hopelessly time barred, is liable to be dismissed, on the
point of limitation alone. 9. We
have heard the Counsel for the complainant and the Opposite Party, on the
application, for condonation of delay, as also, in the main appeal, and have
gone through the evidence, record of the case, and the written arguments of the
parties, carefully. 10. It is pertinent to mention here that
report of the Registry from the Commission was also called for, in order to
ascertain as to what was the exact period of delay, in filing the complaint. As
per the report of the Registry, there is a delay of 133 days, in filing the
present complaint, if the period is calculated from the date of knowledge/cause
of action, which accrued to the complainant as per the letter dated 26.06.2010,
annexed with the written statement of the Opposite Party, at running Page
No.111/65 of the complaint. It was further reported that if the delay is
calculated from the date of lodging of the FIR No.85 dated 29.09.2010, as
alleged by the complainant in Para No.10 of her complaint, then the same comes to
38 days. 11. First
coming to the application, for condonation of delay, it may be stated here,
that the same is liable to be dismissed, for the reasons, to be recorded
hereinafter. The question, that arises for consideration, is, as to whether,
there is sufficient cause for condonation of delay of 133 days (as reported by
the Registry), in filing the complaint, under Section 17 of the Act or not. A
perusal of the letter dated 25.06.2010, at running Page No.111/65 annexed with
the written statement filed by Opposite Party No.1, was written by the
complainant to the Regional Director, Reserve Bank of India, Sector 17-B,
Chandigarh. It is established from this letter that the complainant came to
know of the fraud, allegedly played upon her, for the first time on 25.06.2010
itself and she immediately informed about the same to the Regional Director,
Reserve Bank of India, Sector 17-B, Chandigarh. As the act of fraud came to her
knowledge on 25.06.2010, therefore, the cause of action, accrued to her, for
filing the present complaint, on that very date and not from the date of
lodging of the FIR No.85 dated 29.09.2010. The complainant should have filed
the complaint within a period of two years, from 25.06.2010 but she filed the
same on 06.11.2012. As such, there is a huge delay of 133 days, in filing the
complaint, which the complainant has miserably failed to explain. Since, no
sufficient cause is constituted, from the averments, contained in the
application, the delay of 133 days, cannot be condoned. 12. In R.B.
Ramalingam Vs. R.B. Bhuvaneswari , 2009 (2) Scale 108, the Supreme Court
observed as under:- 13. In Balwant Singh Vs. Jagdish Singh and Ors ,
V (2010) SLT 790=III (2010) CLT 201 (SC), it was held as under:- 14. In Ansul
Aggarwal Vs. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority, 2012 (2) CPC 3 (SC)
it was held as under:- 15. The principle, of law, laid down, in
the aforesaid cases, is fully applicable, to the facts of the instant case. The
application is, thus, liable to be dismissed. 16. The
Counsel for the complainant submitted that one Rajinder Bhateja, Manager of
HDFC Bank fraudulently opened an account in the name of the complainant, with
the OP Bank on the basis of the forged copy of Account Opening Forum and PAN
Card. He further submitted that the signatures on the Account Opening Forum
were not of the complainant and the same were forged by said Rajinder Bhateja.
He further submitted that said Rajinder Bhateja, after opening the account, encashed
the cheque of Rs.50 Lacs (Annexure C-1), fraudulently, and, in this regard, FIR
was also got registered against him. He further submitted that the news of
swindling crores of rupees of the Bank depositors, by Rajinder Bhateja, was
also published in Indian Express dated 17.04.2010. He further submitted that
the OP Bank did not verify the correctness of the Account Opening Forum, or the
documents attached therewith, in order to ascertain their genuineness, which
was a deficiency, in rendering service, on its part, and indulgence into unfair
trade practice. He further submitted that had the OP Bank checked and verified
the documents before opening the account, the hard earned money of the
complainant, would have been saved. 17. On
the other hand, the Counsel for the Opposite Party, has submitted that since
the account was opened with the Opposite Party Bank, situated at Mohali
(Punjab), the Commission at Chandigarh has no territorial jurisdiction to
entertain the complaint and the same is liable to be dismissed solely on this
ground. He further submitted that the allegation of the complainant that the
account was opened fraudulently is baseless because she has not produced any
cogent and convincing evidence to prove the same. He further submitted that if
any fault has been alleged on the part of Rajinder Bhateja, Manager of HDFC
Bank, it was the responsibility of that Bank to go into the matter and the Opposite
Party Bank cannot be held responsible in any manner. He further submitted that
no reliance on any averment made in the complaint, can be placed because the
complainant was not available in India at the time of filing the complaint as
well as at the time of signing the affidavit. He further submitted that since
the complainant, in the whole complaint, has made allegations of fraud and
forgery, therefore, this Commission is not competent to deal with the matter in
a summary manner and the complainant should be relegated to seek her remedy of
approaching the Civil Court of competent jurisdiction, for redressal of her
grievances. He lastly prayed that the complaint, being meritless, be dismissed. 18. As
regards the allegations of fraud and cheating leveled by the complainant
against the Rajinder Bhateja, Manager of HDFC Bank, as also against the
Opposite Party, the same relate to the opening of account in the Opposite Party
Bank, by Rajinder Bhateja fraudulently by forging the signatures of the
complainant on Account Opening Forum and the PAN Card and subsequently
swindling her of an amount of Rs.50 Lacs by encashing a cheque, given to him by
the complainant. Since, serious allegations of fraud and cheating have been
made, in the complaint, the same cannot be adjudicated upon, in the
proceedings, which are of summary nature, before this Commission. Such allegations of fraud require
detailed investigation and analysis of the documents by handwriting experts,
examination & cross-examination of witnesses, which is possible only before
a Civil Court having competent jurisdiction. The law, in this regard, has
already been settled in Oriental
Insurance Company Ltd. Vs Munimahesh Patel 2006(2) CPC 668(SC), Reliance
Industries Ltd. Vs United India Insurance Co. Ltd.I(1998)CPJ13, a case
decided by four members Bench of the
National Consumer Commission and M/s Singhal Swaroop Ispat Ltd. Vs United
Commercial Bank 111(1992)CPJ 50, a case decided by a three member Bench
of the National Commission, wherein it
was held that when there are allegations of forgery, fraud and cheating,
adjudication whereof, requires elaborate evidence, the same cannot be decided by the Consumer Fora,
proceedings before which, are summary in nature. In this view of the matter, the present complaint
is not maintainable before this Commission, which should have been filed before
a Civil Court having competent jurisdiction. As such, the complaint is liable
to be dismissed, on this very score. 19. Even
otherwise, the complaint is also liable to be dismissed on the point of territorial
jurisdiction for the simple reason that the office of Opposite Party Bank is
situated in Phase 7, Mohali, Punjab and no other office of the Opposite Party,
situated at Chandigarh, has been impleaded, where cause of action of part of it
has accrued. Further, nothing has been placed, on record, by the complainant, to
show that cause of action or part of it, accrued within the territorial limits
of Union Territory, Chandigarh. Even also, the complainant has not impleaded
The Karnataka Bank Ltd., Chandigarh, The HDFC Bank, Chandigarh or its
Manager Sh. Rajinder Bhateja as a party, to the complaint. Thus, Section 17(2) of Consumer Protection Act, 1986 stands in way of the complainant as no part of
cause of action arose at Chandigarh, to the complainant, for filing the present
complaint before this Commission and therefore, this Commission has no
territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the same. 20. For the reasons recorded above, the application
for condonation of delay is dismissed. Consequently, the complaint is also dismissed
being barred by time and on merits, with no order as to costs. However, the
complainant is at liberty to approach the Civil Court having competent
jurisdiction, for redressal of her grievance. 21. Certified Copies of this order be sent
to the parties, free of charge. 22. The file be consigned to Record Room,
after completion. Pronounced. 8th
April, 2013. Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

  

 

Sd/- [NEENA SANDHU] 

 

MEMBER 

 Ad 

 

 STATE COMMISSION 

 

  

 

  

 

(Complaint
Case No.54 of 2012) 

 

  

 

Argued by:Sh.Gur Rattan Pal, Advocate for
the complainant. Sh. Sandeep Suri, Advocate for
the Opposite Party. Dated the 8th
day of April, 2013. ORDER 

 

  

 

 Vide
our detailed order of even date, recorded separately, the application
for condonation of delay has been dismissed. Consequently, the complaint has
also dismissed being barred by time and on merits, with no order as to costs.
However, the complainant has been granted liberty to approach the Civil Court
having competent jurisdiction, for redressal of her grievance. (NEENA SANDHU) 
 

MEMBER 
 
 
 

(JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER) 
 PRESIDENT 
 
 
  
 
 

 

  

 

  

 

AD