The Plaintiff had filed this suit against the defendants for

the relief of partition of suit schedule property by metes and

bounds and to allot the plaintiff her 1/3 rd share by directing

the defendants to put the plaintiff in possession and enjoyment

of the schedule property, failing which this court to put the

plaintiff in possession her share in the suit schedule property at

the expenses of the plaintiff; To cancel the registered

relinquishment deed dated 16.11.2011 as null and void and

further to pass consequential relief of permanent injunction

restraining the defendants, agents, servants, successors in

interest, legal representatives, heirs, purchasers or any body

claiming through him, from interfering with plaintiffs peaceful

possession and enjoyment of the suit schedule property. Mesne

profits from the date of the suit till possession is delivered to the 4 O.S. No.5782/2016

plaintiff and grant such other relief in the interest of justice and

equity. SCHEDULE

 Item No.01:- All the piece and parcel of the agricultural
property bearing No.167/2, New Sy. No.167/P3, measuring
21½ Guntas of land situated at Halegevaderahalli Village,
Kengeri Hobli, Bengaluru South Taluk, bounded as follows: Item No.02:- All the piece and parcel of the agricultural
property bearing No.166/3 measuring 10½ Guntas of land
situated at Halegevaderahalli Village, Kengeri Hobli,
Bengaluru South Taluk, bounded as follows: Item No.03:- All the piece and parcel of the agricultural
property bearing No.256/3 measuring 13¾ Guntas of land 5 O.S. No.5782/2016

situated at Halegevaderahalli Village, Kengeri Hobli,
Bengaluru South Taluk, bounded as follows: Item No.04:- All the piece and parcel of the agricultural
property bearing Sy. No.261/2 measuring 18½ Guntas of
land situated at Halegevaderahalli Village, Kengeri Hobli,
Bengaluru South Taluk, bounded as follows: Item No.05:- All the piece and parcel of the agricultural
property bearing Sy. No.100/1B measuring 4½ Guntas of
land situated at Halegevaderahalli Village, Kengeri Hobli,
Bengaluru South Taluk, bounded as follows: Item No.06:- All the piece and parcel of the agricultural
property bearing Sy. No.47/1 measuring 14 Guntas of land
situated at Pattannageri Village, Kengeri Hobli, Bengaluru
South Taluk, bounded as follows: 2. The case of the plaintiff in brief is that: It is averred that the the defendants have played fraud and

misrepresentation on the plaintiff . The defendants had come to

the house of plaintiff at 8.30 am on 16.11.2011, about two

months after the death of father of the parties to the suit and 9 O.S. No.5782/2016

stated that her signatures are required before authorities to

transfer the katha standing in the name of deceased Muddappa in

the name of living persons jointly. The plaintiff believed the words

of the defendants who are her elder brothers . It is submitted that

the defendants did not allow the plaintiff and her husband to read

the contents of the documents before taking her signatures,

thumb impression and photos on the documents. The plaintiff

believed the words of the defendants and put her signatures,

thumb impression and photos of her under the impression her

name will be entered in the katha along with her brothers in

respect of suit schedule properties. It is further submitted that

the defendants had promised the plaintiff that she will get her

share in the suit schedule property in accordance with law and

they will not cheat her. The plaintiff is only a house wife while

the defendants are educated and thus the plaintiff reposed faith

in defendants and requested them to get the necessary

documents for signature for securing a joint katha of schedule

properties. It is submitted that the defendants have interacted 10 O.S. No.5782/2016

with the deed writer and got prepared the document and

requested to execute the document. It is only a when the plaintiff

got a copy of the relinquishment deed now at the the time of filing

the written statement, she came to know the contents of the same

and the fraud played by the defendants came to light. No

consideration is passed to the plaintiff under the said document.

The registered relinquishment deed dated 16.11.2011 executed by

plaintiff in favour of defendants is required to be set aside by

keeping it open for partition. After the plaintiff made a demand

for effecting partition on 01.08.2016, the defendants have

postponed on one pretext or the other to defeat the right, title

and interest of the plaintiff. The plaintiff having no other

alternative has approached this court for partition and separate

possession by metes and bounds. Hence, the present suit for

partition. 3. In pursuance of suit summons, the defendant Nos.1

& 2 have filed their common written statement through their

counsels, by taking the following contentions : 11 2009-10 in Book -III, stored in C.D.No.RRND 26, Registered in the

Office of the Sub-Registrar, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bangalore in

favour of all the three children of Sri.N.Muddappa allotting the

respective shares in respect of the immovable property bearing

Sy.No.256/3, situated at M.G.Layout, Halagevaderahalli, Kengeri

Hobli, Bangalore South Taluk, out of the entire extent of 13¾

guntas. The schedule "A" property of the said WILL was allotted to 13 O.S. No.5782/2016

the share of the defendants No.1, the schedule "B" property was

allotted to the share of the defendant No.2 and the schedule "C"

property was allotted to the share of the plaintiff herein ; v) The plaintiff had executed a Registered Release Deed dated

16.11.2011 registered as document No.RRN-4-000-76-2011-12, in

Book-4, stored in C.D.No.RRND64, registered in the office of the

Sub-Registrar, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bangalore in favour of

defendant No.1 and 2 thereby releasing and relinquishing all her

rights in respect of all the immovable properties and movable

properties which had fallen to the share of her deceased father. In

the additional written statement the defendants have denied the

contents of the amended plaint. Additionally it is averred that the

plaintiff is a B.Com. Graduate, who is highly educated/most

qualified person in the whole the defendant's family . On

16.11.2011 the plaintiff along with her husband had voluntarily

visited the jurisdictional Sub-Registrar's office, waited patiently

until the entire per-registration formalities were completed and 14 O.S. No.5782/2016

subsequently, both the plaintiff and her husband had read and

understood the entire contents of the said Relinquishment Deed.

The plaintiff has prudently signed and executed the said

Relinquishment Deed by authenticating the same with her

Biometric Thumb and photo impression into the said registered

deed, in the presence of the Attesting Witnesses and the Officials

present there in at the Sub-Registrar's office and now the plaintiff

is estopped from claiming and /or alleging on playing fraudulent

acts by the defendants. Hence sought to dismiss the suit. 4. On the above pleadings of the parties, the following

issues have been framed: NOTE : Considering the existence of
 multiple suit properties , the issue No.1
 is modified to denote the plurality of
 the suit items. 2. Whether the plaintiff further proves that
 the defendants got prepared the 15 O.S. No.5782/2016

 document and having played fraud and
 misrepresentation taken the signatures
 of her on it as the same are required
 before the authorities to transfer the
 khatha standing in the name of
 deceased Muddappa and did not allow
 her to read the contents of the
 documents and later on she came to
 know that she has executed registered
 relinquishment deed dated 16.11.2011
 in favour of the defendants as
 contended para No.8(a) and (b) of the
 plaint? 3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled for the
 reliefs sought for? 4. What order or decree? Additional issue framed on 1.1.2019

 Whether the defendants prove that as
 per the registered Will dated. 11.12.2009 of their father the item no.3
 of the suit schedule property was
 allotted to themselves and the plaintiff
 as their respective shares. (NOTE: The above additional issue is
 deleted as it overlaps with additional
 no. 2 framed on 26.7.2024)

 Additional issues framed on 26th July 2024 1. Whether the defendants prove that suit
 items No.1,2 and 4 were acquired by 16 O.S. No.5782/2016

 BEML House Building Co-operative
 Society and therefore the plaintiff is
 barred to claim a share with respect to
 the above item. 2. Whether the defendants prove that
 N.Muddappa had executed a registered
 WILL dated 11.12.2009 in respect of the
 Item No.3 of suit schedule property. 3. Whether the defendant proves that the
 remaining extent of land in
 Sy.No.100/1b i.e., Item No.5 is the only
 property which is available for partition. 4. Whether the suit is barred by law of
 limitation. Additional issues framed on 02.09.2023 1. Whether sufficient court fee is paid by
 the plaintiff. 5. In order to prove the case of the plaintiffs, the plaintiff

examined herself as PW.1 and got marked documents at Ex.P.1

to P.71 and closed the evidence on her side. On behalf of defendants, Sridhar. M is the defendant No.2

is examined as DW.1 and got marked documents at Ex.D.1 to

D.17 and closed the evidence of defendants' side. 17 O.S. No.5782/2016 6. Heard the arguments of both sides. Perused the records. 7. My findings to the above issues are as under: Addl. Issue No.4 framed In the Affirmative
 on 26.07.2024
 Addl. Issue No.1 framed In the Negative
 on 02.09.2023
 Issue No.4 As per final Order,
 for the following: 8. Issue No.1 :- It is the case of the plaintiff that the suit

schedule properties were acquired by their father Muddappa

under the partition deed dated 10.04.1972, which was affected

between four sons of Nanjundappa. A careful scrutiny of the

materials on record reveal that the neither the claim of the

plaintiff with the regard to the acquisition of the suit properties

by Muddappa under the partition dated 10.4.1972 nor the 18 O.S. No.5782/2016

claim of the plaintiff in the suit properties are disputed by the

defendants. A conjoint reading of written statement averments at

paragraph no. 4, 5 and 7 disclose that the defendants have

categorically admitted the entitlement of the plaintiff to the

extent of 1/3rd share in the suit properties but they have

fundamentally defended the claim on the ground of non

availability of the suit properties for partition. No doubt Section

53 of the Bharatiya Sakhsya Adhiniyam, 2023 ( herein after

referred as BSA) the erstwhile Section 58 Indian Evidence Act,

1872, provides that no fact needs to be proved in any

proceeding which the parties thereto or their agents agree to

admit at the hearing, or which, before the hearing, they agree to

admit by any writing under their hands, or which by any rule of

pleading in force at the time they are deemed to have admitted

by their pleadings but the proviso of Section 53 of the BSA

provides that the Court may, in its discretion, require the facts

admitted to be proved otherwise than by such admissions. In the

above case the plaintiff has not pleaded the details of the 19 O.S. No.5782/2016

acquisition of the suit properties from her great grand father in

the plaint or produced any other documents evidencing the flow

of title under Section 6 of the Amended Hindu Succession Act,

1956 . Meanwhile the issue no.1 framed by the court indicates

that this court has not chosen to hold that the suit properties

are the ancestral properties owing to the judicial admission of

the defendants in the written statement but instead the court

has directed the parties to lead evidence and consequentially the

evidence led in this context has to be examined notwithstanding

the defendants' admission in the written statement on the mode

of acquisition of the suit properties by Mudappa. 9. In the instant case the plaintiff is claiming the right

through her deceased father namely Mudappa without

indicating that the suit properties were acquired through her

paternal ancestors upto three degrees above her. The Hon'ble

Apex Court of India between Arshnoor Singh V/s Harpal Kaur

and Others, reported in (2020) 14 SCC 436 at para 7.3 held that

under Mitakshara law, whenever a male ancestor inherits any 20 O.S. No.5782/2016

property from any of his paternal ancestors upto three degrees

above him, then his male legal heirs upto three degrees below

him, would get an equal right as coparceners in that property.

The Hon'ble Apex Court of India in Vineeta Sharma V/s Rakesh

Sharma & Others (Supra) at Page 34 Para 24 has held that a

coparcenary property is the one which is inherited by a Hindu

from his father, grandfather, or great grandfather. Property

inherited from others is held in his rights and cannot be treated

as forming part of the coparcenary. The property in coparcenary

is held as joint owners. The Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in

RFA NO. 1925/2006 in the case of Basavaraj Meti and another

v. Prema bai Jamadar and others, while answering the point on

whether the property inherited under Section 8 of the Hindu

Succession Act, 1956, acquires the characteristic of a co-

paracenery property subsequent to the division of properties

between two brothers vis-à-vis sons of the parties to the

partition, has held that coparcenary is a creature of the statute

and it cannot be created by way of an agreement. That being the 21 O.S. No.5782/2016

position the conduct of the parties will not change the

characteristics of the property. It is appropriate to extract para

18 of the above judgment : 10. From the above judgments it is pellucid that in

order to claim a share in the coparcenary property the plaintiff

has to necessarily prove that the property sought to be

partitioned is a Mitakshara coparcenary property inherited from

his paternal ancestors upto three degrees above him. In the case

on hand it is not the case of the plaintiff that suit properties

were the coparcenary property of her great grandfather and the

father of the plaintiff had acquired rights over the suit properties

under Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. There is

nothing on record to prove that the great grand father of the

plaintiff had acquired the suit properties from his paternal

ancestors upto three degrees above him. .When the plaintiff is 23 O.S. No.5782/2016

claiming coparcenary rights in the suit properties it is

incumbent upon the plaintiff to plead and prove that her father

leaving behind his share in the coparcenary property. 11. The plaint averments are bereft of the material

particulars of the same. Mere plea of partition between the

children of Nanjundappa on 10.4.1972 without providing any

material particulars of the mode of acquisition of the properties

is not sufficient to hold that the suit properties are the ancestral

and coparcenary properties. The execution of the partition deed

between the family members in respect of properties left behind

by the holder of the properties would not change the character of

the properties from self acquired properties to that of

coparcenary properties. As held in the above judgments

coparcenary is a creature of the statute and it cannot be created

by way of an agreement and thus no presumption of

coparcenary property can be drawn. It is not the case of the

plaintiff that properties devolved upon the children of

Nanjundappa were inherited from their paternal ancestors up 24 O.S. No.5782/2016

to three degrees above them and they had affected partition in

respect of such properties . Even the genealogical tree produced

by the plaintiff at Ex.P1 does not go beyond Nanjundappa, who

is the paternal grand father of the plaintiff. There are no

particulars specifying the names of the paternal ancestors of the

plaintiff in the family tree upto three degrees above the plaintiff

in the plaint. Ex.P3 and P4 merely disclose that the properties

allotted to Mudappa in respect of Sy. NO. 47/1 , Sy. NO. 256/3

and Sy. NO. 261/2 on the basis of the partition on 10.4.1972

were mutated in the revenue records. None of the documents

produced by the plaintiff in the form of RTC extracts and

encumbrance certificates would be of any assistance to prove

the the suit properties are the ancestral properties . A perusal

of the RTC extracts produced at Ex.P5 to 17 , Ex.P23 to 26,

Ex.P51, Ex.P52, Ex.P55 , Ex.P 57, Ex.P58, Ex.P61 standing in

the name of Malleshaih with reference to Sy. NO. 167/3 , 167/2

, Sy. NO. 166/3 , 100/1B , Sy. NO. 256/3, 167/P3 ; the RTC

extracts at Ex.P18 , Ex.P20 & 22 , Ex.P56, Ex.P 62 which are 25 O.S. No.5782/2016

standing in the name of Mudappa with reference to Sy. 47/1,

Sy. No. 256/3 & P56; the RTC extracts standing in the name of

Nanjundappa at Ex.P19 & 21with reference to Sy. No. 47/1 ; the

RTC extract at Ex.P53 & 59 in respect of Sy. No. 256/3 in the

name of Puttamariayyappa , Mudappa and Gouramma , the

RTC extract at Ex.P54, 60 in respect of Sy. No. 261/ 2 in the

name of Puttaiah and Mudappa; Similarly the RTC extracts at

Ex.P27 and 28 which disclose the name of Malleshaiah,

Puttaiah, Puttamarriappa and Mudappa in respect of Sy. No.

256/3 or the RTC extracts at Ex.P29 and 30 standing in the

name of Puttaiah and Mudappa in respect of Sy. No. 261/2,

would not come to the aid and assistance of the plaintiff to

substantiate that the suit properties are the ancestral and

coparcenary properties. In State of Himachal Pradesh Vs.

Keshar Ram and others , reported in 1996 (11) SCC 257 the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "the entries in the revenue

papers, by no stretch of imagination can from the basis for

declaration of title in favour of the plaintiff". The Hon'ble 26 O.S. No.5782/2016

Supreme Court further held that even if the entries in record of

rights carry evidentiary value, that itself would not confer any

title on the plaintiff on the suit land in question. Thus even if

some of the properties are found to be standing in the name of

Mudappa in the RTC extracts the same would not confer any

coparcenary right on the plaintiff. 12. The reliance on Ex.P63, which is the certified copy of

the Panchayat Parikath dtd. 10.4.1972 in terms of which the

father of the plaintiff was allotted the suit properties is not at all

of any assistance to the plaintiff as the recitals of the panchayat

parikath clearly demonstrate that the said document is not a

record of past transaction as it could be deduced that the

document in-fact created right title and interest of the parties in

the party of dispute for the first time. Therefore when the said

document is creating rights in favor of the parties to the

document it is compulsory registrable under Section 17 of the

Registration Act and in the absence of registration the same

cannot be admitted in evidence. At this stage it is relevant to 27 O.S. No.5782/2016

refer to Para 14 of the Judgment of the Venkataswamy and other

V/s Annemma ILR 2015 KAR 4715 wherein it is held that if the

parties in unequivocal terms have agreed to partition by metes

and bonds and accordingly the property has fallen to their

respective shares, and if from the date of the partition they have

become the owner of the exclusive properties mentioned in the

schedule then it is only from that day except the blood

relationship all other relationship should extinguished. Further

if an oral partition has been affected between the parties and

subsequently the same has been reduced into writing as a

Memorandum of Partition in the joint family as the evidence of

partition then no registration is required. In the above case the

recitals of the panchayat parikath reveal that the parties had

mutually agreed to enjoy their respective shares and so also

remit taxes in respect of their shares from the date of partition

and consequently it can be deduced that there was partition by

metes and bounds under the said document itself which

necessitated registration of the document. Upon failure of 28 O.S. No.5782/2016

registration of the document the consequence enumerated under Section 49(c) of the Registration Act would follow and in the

result the said document cannot be received as evidence of any

transaction affecting such property. 13. Additionally it is also found that the said document

cannot also be used for collateral purpose as the plaintiff has

filed the suit seeking partition in respect of the properties which

are the subject matter of the panchayat parikath . In Kaladevi vs

V.R.Somasundaram & Ors , 1 AIR 2010 SUPREME COURT

1654, the Apex Court, referred to K.B Saha and sons V/s

Development Consultant Limited, 2008) 8 SCC 564, wherein the

Apex Court had culled out the following principles:- O.S. No.5782/2016 3. A collateral transaction must be independent of, or
 divisible from, the transaction to effect which the law
 required registration. 4. A collateral transaction must be a transaction not
 itself required to be effected by a registered document,
 that is, a transaction creating, etc. any right, title or
 interest in immovable property of the value of one
 hundred rupees and upwards. 5. If a document is inadmissible in evidence for want of
 registration, none of its terms can be admitted in
 evidence and that to use a document for the purpose of
 proving an important clause would not be using it as a
 collateral purpose." 14. Therefore from the above principles it is abundantly

evident that the panchayat parikhat at Ex.P63 cannot be used

as evidence as it is not independent of, or divisible from, the

transaction to effect which the law required registration.

Notwithstanding the non registration of the partition deed at

Ex.P63, and assuming for a moment that the said document is

admissible in evidence then also the properties acquired by

Mudappa under the aforesaid deed cannot be treated as

coparcenary properties on account of mere partition between the 30 O.S. No.5782/2016

children of Nanjundappa. The said document also does not

categorically indicate that the flow of title to the children

Nanjundappa from their paternal ancestors upto three degrees

above them. A vague recital in the panchayat parikhat/partition

deed that the properties are ancestral would not confer the

status of coparcenary property. In the consequence the plea of

coparcenary and ancestral property pleaded by the plaintiff

does not satisfy the requirements of Mitakshara coparcenary

property for two fold reasons, firstly the property sought to be

partitioned was not the ancestral property of the great grand

father of the plaintiff and secondly, by execution of partition

deed at Ex.P63, the property partitioned cannot be treated as

coparcenary property . 15. The materials on record further disclose that the

property bearing no. 1/A in Halagevaderahalli village grama

khata no. 256/3 has been sold under sale deed dtd 22.11.2001

by Mudappa, Puttananjamma and the parties to the suit in

favour of Puttaswamachar in terms of Ex.D6 ; similarly sites no. 31 O.S. No.5782/2016

9 in Sy. NO. 261/1 and Sy. NO. 261/2 has been sold on

19.12.2002 in favour of Shivananjayya by Mudappa and the

defendants in terms of Ex.D7; site no 16, in Sy. NO. 261/1 and

Sy. NO. 261/2 has been sold on 19.122002 in favour of

K.S.Uma by Mudappa and the defendants in terms of Ex.D8; site

no 24, in Sy. NO. 261/1 and Sy. NO. 261/2 has been sold on

30.1.2003 in favour of Manohar Lakshminarayan by Mudappa

and the defendants in terms of Ex.D9; site no 19, in Sy. NO.

261/1 and Sy. NO. 261/2 has been sold on 29.5.2003 in

favour of Ratnamma by Mudappa and the defendants in terms

of Ex.D10; site no 23 in Sy. NO. 261/1 and Sy. NO. 261/2 has

been sold on 23.6.2003 in favour of Lokesh by Mudappa and

the defendants in terms of Ex.D11; site no 21 in Sy. NO. 216/1

and Sy. NO. 261/2 has been sold on 23.6.2003 in favour of

Manjula by Mudappa and the defendants in terms of Ex.D12;

site no 7 in Sy. NO. 47/1 of Pattangere village has been sold on

23.6.2003 in favour of Jayaram by Mudappa and the

defendants in terms of Ex.D13; site no 2 in Sy. NO. 47/1 of 32 O.S. No.5782/2016

Pattangere village has been sold on 20. 2. 2006 in favour of

Nagendra Kumar by Mudappa and the defendants in terms of

Ex.D14; site no 3 in Sy. NO. 47/1 of Pattangere village has

been sold on 30.6.2006 in favour of Harsha R by Mudappa

and the defendants in terms of Ex.D15. Further the plaintiff

herself has also executed deed of confirmation on 27.6.2019 at

Ex.D19 & 20 in favour of Sumathi and Natarajan and others in

respect of site no. 23 and 22 of Sy. NO. 47/1. The plaintiff who

has sought the relief of partition in respect of the suit properties

has not mentioned about the aforesaid transactions in the

plaint even though these transactions are duly registered. Be as

it may , it is relevant to note that merely because in the

aforesaid transactions the plaintiff and defendants have joined

Mudappa in executing the sale deed in favour of third parties or

the plaintiff herself has executed confirmation deed, these facts

cannot be construed as an indication of existence of

coparcenary rights in the suit properties . Neither the plaintiff

nor the defendants have any pre existing coparcenary right in 33 O.S. No.5782/2016

respect of the suit properties. However a scrutiny of the

materials on record further reveal that Mudappa did acquire 14

guntas in Sy. No. 47/1,13 3/4 guntas in Sy.No. 256/3, and

18 ½ guntas in Sy. No. 261/2 upon the demise of

Nanjundappa under the panchayat parikath in terms of the

mutation order at Ex. P3 and P4 . The RTC of Sy. NO. 47/1 at

Ex. P18 , 20 , 56 and 62 standing in the name of Mudappa

measuring to the extent of 14 guntas ; the RTC of Sy. NO.

256/3 at Ex. P22 , 26, 27, 53 and 59 standing in the name of

Mudappa measuring to the extent of 13. 12 guntas , the RTC

of Sy. NO. 261/2 at Ex. P 29 , 30 standing in the name of

Mudappa measuring to the extent of 18 and ½ guntas disclose

that in terms of the mutation order at EX.P3 and 4 the names of

the Mudappa are reflected in the RTC extracts and further the

latest RTC extract of Sy. NO. 261/2 at Ex. P 60 is also

standing in the name of Mudappa showing the extent of

property as 8.8 guntas . The admission of the defendants in the

written statement that Sy. NO. 100/1B has been acquired and 34 O.S. No.5782/2016

further on account of the agreement letter signed by the plaintiff

and defendant no.1, the defendant no.2 has received the

compensation reveals that Mudappa had in fact acquired rights

only in respect of item no. 3 to 6 of the suit properties as there

is no evidence to show that the suit items no.1 and 2 were

standing in the name of Mudappa at any point of time. The

plaintiff has failed to prove that item no.1 and 2 were standing

in the name of Mudappa at any point of time and she has

acquired rights over the same. The RTC extracts produced by

the plaintiff do not disclose the name of Mudappa in respect of

item no.1 and 2 and even there are no mutation entries to

demonstrate that item no.1 and 2 were acquired by Mudappa

under the panchayat parikat . Hence the devolution and

existence of item no.1 and 2 of the suit properties are not at all

proved . However the evidence of record reflect that the mode of

acquisition of properties at item no. 3 to 6 by Mudappa is

under Section 8 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. Thus the

plaintiff has failed to prove that the suit schedule properties are 35 O.S. No.5782/2016

the joint family properties or the coparcenary properties of

herself and the defendants and accordingly issue no.1 is

answered in the Negative . 16. Issue No.2 : It is the case of the plaintiff that the

defendants have got executed a registered relinquishment deed

dated 16.11.2011 from the plaintiff in favour of the defendants

by way of a fraudulent representation. It is contented by the

plaintiff that the defendants got prepared the document by

playing fraud and misrepresentation and further obtained her

signatures on the pretext that her signatures are required

before the authorities to transfer the khatha standing in the

name of deceased Muddappa . It is further contended that the

defendants did not allow her to read the contents of the

documents and later on she came to know that she has executed

registered relinquishment deed dated 16.11.2011 in favour of

the defendants . Per contra the defendants have contended that

the plaintiff has executed a Registered Release Deed dated

16.11.2011 registered as document No.RRN-4-000-76-2011-12, 36 O.S. No.5782/2016

in Book-4, stored in C.D.No.RRND64, registered in the office of

the Sub-Registrar, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bangalore in favour of

defendant No.1 and 2 thereby releasing and relinquishing all her

rights in respect of all the immovable properties and movable

properties which had fallen to the share of her deceased father.

It is contended that the plaintiff is a B.Com. Graduate, who is

highly educated/most qualified person in the defendant's

family. On 16.11.2011 the plaintiff along with her husband had

voluntarily visited the jurisdictional Sub-Registrar's office,

waited patiently until the entire per-registration formalities were

completed and subsequently, both the plaintiff and her

husband had read and understood the entire contents of the

said Relinquishment Deed and later on the plaintiff has

prudently signed and executed the said Relinquishment Deed by

authenticating the same with her Biometric Thumb and photo

impression into the said registered deed, in the presence of the

Attesting Witnesses and the Officials present there in at the 37 O.S. No.5782/2016

Sub-Registrar's office and therefore now the plaintiff is estopped

from claiming and /or alleging fraud by the defendants. 17. At this stage it is pertinent to refer to Section 31 of the

Specific Relief Act, 1963, which provides that any person

against whom a written instrument is void or voidable, and who

has reasonable apprehension that such instrument, if left

outstanding may cause him serious injury, may sue to have it

adjudged void or voidable; and the court may, in its discretion,

so adjudge it and order it to be delivered up and canceled. Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act provides that all

agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of

parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and

with a lawful object, and are not hereby expressly declared to be

void. Section 19 of the Indian Contract Act provides that when

consent to an agreement is caused by coercion, fraud or

misrepresentation, the agreement is a contract voidable at the

option of the party whose consent was so caused. It is not the 38 O.S. No.5782/2016

case of the plaintiff that the defendants prevented the Sub

Registrar from examining the plaintiff about the execution of the

relinquishment deed at Ex.P65 at the time of registration. No

allegations of collusion are made against the Sub Registrar by

the plaintiff. Section 34(3) of the Registration Act, 1908,

provides that the registering officer shall enquire whether or not

such document was executed by the persons by whom it

purports to have been executed and satisfy himself as to the

identity of the persons appearing before him and alleging that

they have executed the document. While Section 34(1) of the

said Act provides that no document shall be registered under

this Act,unless the persons executing such document, or their

representatives, assigns or agents authorized as aforesaid,

appear before the registering officer within the time allowed for

presentation . In this regard it is also relevant to refer to Section

35 of the said Act wherein the procedure on admission and

denial of execution has been provided. In this context, Section

35 (3) (a) of the Act mandates that if any person by whom the 39 O.S. No.5782/2016

document purports to be executed denies its execution, the

registering officer shall refuse to register the document as to the

person so denying. In the above case there are absolutely no

averments in the plaint as to how the enquiry before the Sub

registrar was conducted and if at all any enquiry was conducted

why the plaintiff failed to report the factum of fraudulent

misrepresentation to the sub registrar. It is not the case of the

plaintiff that no such enquiry was conducted and the sub-

registrar had acted in collusion with the defendants in failing to

comply with mandatory provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 .

It is also not the case of the plaintiff that the sub registrar

proceeded to register the relinquishment deed in spite of her

denial of the execution. When the plaintiff was not allowed the

read the contents of the draft of the relinquishment deed she

could not have admitted the contents of the same during the

enquiry before the Sub registrar. When the plaintiff has not

challenged the process of registration and admitted the

document before the sub registrar at the time of execution it is 40 O.S. No.5782/2016

deemed that all the statutory requirements were complied and

the document was duly registered on the admission of the

contents of the document by the plaintiff. 18. The Supreme Court in Ramathal and others v.

K.Rajamani in Civil Appeal No. 8830/2012 relying on Bismillah

v Janeshwar Prasad and Saunders v Anglia Building

Society(1970) 3 ALL ER 961 reiterated the test of non est

factum in para no. 19 of the judgment. The aforementioned test

for a successful plea of non est factum requires that:A. The

person pleading non est factum must belong to "class of

persons, who through no fault of their own, are unable to have

any understanding of the purpose of the particular document

because of blindness, illiteracy or some other disability The

disability must be one requiring the reliance on others for advice

as to what they are signing. B. "The "signatory must have made

a fundamental mistake as to the nature of the contents of the

document being signed", including its practical effects. C. The 41 O.S. No.5782/2016

document must have been radically different from one intended

to be signed. The person pleading non est factum must belong

to class of persons, who through no fault of their own, are

unable to have any understanding of the purpose of the

particular document because of blindness, illiteracy or some

other disability" and furthermore all the aforesaid tests require

the executant of the document to place reliance on others for

advice as to what they are signing. If the above tests are applied

to the facts of the case it is clearly evident that the plaintiff is a

B.Com. Graduate does not belong to the class of persons who

are unable to have any understanding of the purpose of the

particular document because of blindness, illiteracy or some

other disability , where she is required to rely on the advise

of other persons and therefore the plaintiff does not qualify the

first test itself and in the consequence the plea of non of non est

factum is not available to the plaintiff. 19. At this stage it is appropriate to refer the judgment

of the Apex Court in the case of Dhurandhar Prasad 42 O.S. No.5782/2016

Singh v. Jai Prakash University and Others [(2001) 6 SCC

534] wherein it was noted that, it is necessary to

distinguish between two kinds of invalidity, the one kind

is where the invalidity is so grave that the list is a nullity

altogether, such that, there is no need for an order to

quash it. It is automatically null and void. The other kind

is when the invalidity does not make the list void

altogether, but only voidable, such that, it stands valid

unless and until it is set aside and further in the case

of Union of India & Others. v. A.K. Pandey [(2009) 10 SCC

552], it was observed that where a contract, express or

implied, is expressly or by implication forbidden by

statute, no court will lend its assistance to give it eff ect.

The Apex Court noted that it is well established that a

contract is void if prohibited by a statute under a penalty,

even without express declaration that the contract is void,

because such a penalty implies a prohibition. In the

present case the agreement of relinquishment between 43 O.S. No.5782/2016

the plaintiff and defendants is not forbidden by any law

to make it automatically null and void and

consequentially the same can only be held to be voidable

at the option of the plaintiff under Section 19 of the

Indian Contract Act R/W Section 31 of the Specifi c Relief

Act subject to pleadings and proof . 20. The plaintiff who has sought for the relief of

cancellation of the relinquishment deed has not pleaded the

material attributes disclosing the details of fraudulent

misrepresentation in terms of Order 6 Rule 4 CPC with

reference to the conduct of the each of the defendants together

with proceedings before the Sub registrar under the Registration

Act, 1908 so as to hold that the impugned relinquishment

deed at Ex.P65 as voidable. The plaint allegations in para

No.8 (a) and 8 (b) are very vague and omnibus. The averments

that the relinquishment deed was obtained by the defendants by

fraudulently misrepresenting that her signatures were required 44 O.S. No.5782/2016

before the authorities to transfer the khata standing in the name

of the deceased Mudappa in the name of the living persons

jointly and further she got to know of the said document from

the written statement, are absolutely vague as no explanation is

offered with regard to the proceedings before the sub registrar

and in this background the plea of fraudulent misrepresentation

appears to be an after-thought only to overcome the registered

relinquishment deed which has already been executed in favour

of the defendants. The plaintiff has not taken any pain to

examine the witnesses of the registered release deed to

establish her case of fraudulent misrepresentation. No

explanation is offered for non examination of the witnesses to

the registered release deed at Ex.P65. In M/s. Sri Ram

Industrial Enterprises Ltd. vs. Mahak Singh , AIR 2007 SC 1370,

it is held that if a party withholds from court the best evidence

or some material evidence (document) or witness, adverse

presumption against such party can be drawn u/s. 114(g) of the

Evidence Act. Except the self serving statement, nothing 45 O.S. No.5782/2016

material has been elicited to disprove the valid execution of the

registered relinquishment deed dated 16.11.2011. DW1 has

denied that the defendants had taken the plaintiff to the office of

the Sub Registrar on 16.11.2011 and they had obtained her

signature without informing the contents of the Ex.P65. DW1

has also denied that the defendants never allowed the plaintiff to

read the contents of Ex.P65 and that the plaintiff never came to

the sub registrar's office voluntarily . DW1 has categorically

denied that defendants have created Ex. P65 in order to cheat

the plaintiff. DW1 has categorically denied that the plaintiff has

no knowledge of the worldly affairs. In fact it is the suggestion of

the counsel for the plaintiff to DW1 that the plaintiff would have

got share in the suit properties had there not been Ex.P65 in

existence to which DW1 has admitted. This demonstrates that

the plaintiff is aware of the significance of Ex.P65. Having

understood the significance of the relinquishment deed,the

plaintiff ought to have registered a criminal complaint against

the defendants for the alleged fraudulent acts but the plaintiff 46 O.S. No.5782/2016

has not produced any record to show that she has initiated any

criminal proceedings against the defendants for fraudulently

obtaining the registered relinquishment deed in the garb of

obtaining her signatures for securing a joint khata and this

conduct speaks that the plaintiff has challenged the

relinquishment deed only as an after thought by creating an

illusory cause of action. 21. The counsel for the plaintiff has contended that the

burden is on the defendants to prove their bonafide and good

faith as they are the beneficiaries of document in the light of Section 111 of the Indian Evidence Act. But the said proposition

is not applicable to the case as Section 111 of the Evidence Act

applies where there is a question as to the good faith of a

transaction between parties, one of whom stands to the other in

a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good

faith of the transaction is on the party who is in a position of

active confidence . In the above case the plaintiff has not 47 O.S. No.5782/2016

pleaded that the defendants enjoyed the active confidence of the

plaintiff and they have induced the plaintiff to execute the

registered relinquishment deed in their favour. Although the

plaintiff has pleaded that she has believed the representation of

the defendants when she was asked for her signatures to

transfer the khata standing in the name of the deceased

Mudappa in the name of the living persons jointly by the

defendants but the same would not be suffice to hold that the

defendants enjoyed the active confidence of the plaintiff. It is

her specific case that the registered relinquishment deed is a

result of fraud and misrepresentation. There is no pleading with

reference to undue influence to apply Section 111 of the Indian

Evidence Act. Even if it is assumed that there is a plea of active

confidence and undue influence the initial burden of proof to

prove the factum of active confidence is on the plaintiff as the

suit will fail if both the parties do not adduce any evidence, in

view of Section 105 of the Bharatiya Sakshaya Adhiniyam

2023 . Thus, ordinarily, the burden of proof would be on the 48 O.S. No.5782/2016

party who asserts the affirmative of the issue and it rests, after

evidence is gone into, upon the party against whom, at the time

the question arises, judgment would be given, if no further

evidence were to be adduced by either side . It is well settled

that no presumption of undue influence in executing a

registered deed can arise merely because the parties are related

to each other or the executant is old or of weak character. In

view of Section 49 of Registration Act, 1908, registration of a

deed re-enforces valid execution of the deed and carries a

presumption of its validity and therefore the burden of proof lies

on the party challenging the genuineness of the transaction to

show that the transaction is not valid in law. The materials on

record indicate that the plaintiff in this case has failed to prove

that the impugned relinquishment deed is a result of fraudulent

misrepresentation and therefore the question of shifting the

burden on the defendants does not arise. 22. Yet another contention taken by the plaintiff is that

the relinquishment deed at Ex.P65 is registered without 49 O.S. No.5782/2016

receiving any consideration. Section 23 of the Indian Contract

Act 1872 merely proves that consideration or object of an

agreement should be lawful. Section 2(d) of the Indian Contract

Act provides when, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or

any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or

abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing,

something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a

consideration for the promise. There fore in view of the above

definition the consideration for any contract need not be

monetary consideration. Section 25 of the Indian Contract Act

further provides that agreement without consideration is void

unless it is in writing and registered or is a promise to

compensate for something done or is a promise to pay a debt

barred by limitation of law. Under this provision it is very much

pellucid that when an agreement without consideration is

registered under the law then inspite of the absence of

consideration, the agreement is valid. Therefore the contention 50 O.S. No.5782/2016

that the relinquishment deed is liable to be can celled for want

of consideration is not sustainable. 23. It is contention of the plaintiff that the recitals of the

relinquishment deed are vague with absolutely no reference to

any properties and therefore it is liable to be cancelled. In the

above case the plaintiff has not blindly executed the

relinquishment deed by relinquishing her right in unidentified

properties but she has admitted the bequest made by her father

under the Will at Ex.D16 and thereafter she has relinquished

her rights in respect of the movable and immovable properties ,

The execution of the Will at Ex.D16 was also admitted by the

plaintiff in the common written statement filed by the plaintiff in

O.S.No. 8404/2011 on 4.2.2012 itself . In fact the plaintiff .

During her oral evidence the plaintiff has admitted Ex.D18

which is an endorsement issued by BWSSB pursuant to her

application . The said endorsement reveals that an application

was submitted by the plaintiff for obtaining water supply from 51 O.S. No.5782/2016

BWSSB in respect of the property bequeathed to her and in

furtherance of the same the BWSSB had issued an endorsement

referring to the Will submitted by the plaintiff. PW1 has also

admitted the execution of the Will by her father in her cross

examination. This subsequent conduct of the Will signifies that

the Will was acted upon and the plaintiff reserved no right in

respect of other properties. The recitals of the relinquishment

deed convey that the plaintiff has accepted that she has no

independent right beyond the Will and she has expressly stated

that she has a clear intention to abide by the Will and therefore

under such circumstances even though the relinquishment deed

does not refer to any specific property it can still be considered

as an instrument of waiver or renunciation of right rather than

transfer which is not prohibited under law. It is also relevant to

mention here that the plaintiff had executed the relinquishment

deed after the death of her father and there fore the rights of the

parties had crystallized by then and in this context the plaintiff

was well aware of the consequences of her acts and deeds. In 52 O.S. No.5782/2016

this background the contention of the plaintiff that the

relinquishment deed is liable to be cancelled for not providing

the description of the properties is devoid of merit. The recitals

of the document clearly reveal that the plaintiff has validly

executed Ex.P65 in favour of the defendants and the said

document is binding on her. The overall scrutiny of the materials

disclose that the plaintiff has failed to establish her case of

fraud. it is relevant to note that Section 104 of the Bharatiya

Sakshaya Adhiniyam 2023 provides that whoever desires any

Court to give judgment as to any legal right or liability

dependent on the existence of facts which he asserts, must

prove that those facts exist. When a person is bound to prove

the existence of any fact, it is said that the burden of proof lies

on that person. Section 105 of the said Act further provides that

the burden of proof in a suit or proceeding lies on that person

who would fail if no evidence at all were given on either side.

Section 106 of the said Act provides that the burden of proof as

to any particular fact lies on that person who wishes the Court 53 O.S. No.5782/2016

to believe in its existence, unless it is provided by any law that

the proof of that fact shall lie on any particular person. In this

background if the evidence adduced by the plaintiff is

examined it is pellucid that the plaintiff has failed to prove that

the defendants had obtained the relinquishment deed by playing

fraud on the plaintiff. Hence issue no.2 is answered in the

negative. 24. Additional issue nos.1 and 3 : The defendants

have contended that suit items No.1,2 and 4 were acquired by

BEML House Building Co-operative Society and the only

property which is available for partition is the remaining extent

of land in Sy.No.100/1b i.e., Item No.5. The aforesaid

contentions are in addition to the contention raised by the

defendants No.1 and 2 that on account of the execution of the

relinquishment deed by the plaintiff in favour of the defendants,

the plaintiff is not entitled to the relief of partition and separate

possession in respect of the suit schedule properties. The 54 O.S. No.5782/2016

defendants have not produced any documentary evidence to

substantiate the said contention. However PW1 during her oral

evidence has admitted that item no.1 is utilized to its fullest

extent for the formation of the layout and the said land is

acquired by BEML. On 10.1.2020 PW1 has deposed that in item

no.1 and 2 properties there is a BEML Layout and the said

properties are acquired by the government. On 14.3.2024, PW1

has admitted in her cross examination that item no.1, 2 and 4

have been acquired by the government and she has further

deposed that she is claiming her share in respect of remaining

properties. The reliance on Ex.D5 to prove that item no.1 and 2

are acquired by the BDA is not sufficient as the said notification

was issued under Section 17 of the BDA Act. The defendants

have not produced the final notification under Section 19 of the

BDA or the award to prove that the acquisitions proceedings

were completed. Although PW1 has unequivocally and

unconditionally admitted the acquisition of suit items No.1,2

and 4 by BEML House Building Co-operative Society but in the 55 O.S. No.5782/2016

absence of documentary evidence this court is not inclined to

accept the said admission as conclusive proof . The defendants

having taken such a plea ought to have proved the same by

producing the final acquisition notification, mahazar report,

details of award and compensation received. Similarly the

defendants have not produced any evidence to establish that the

only property which is available for partition is the remaining

extent of land in Sy.No.100/1b i.e., Item No.5 by producing any

cogent and reliable evidence. The defendants, having taken the

plea of availability of the remaining land in item no.5 for

partition, have failed to substantiate the same. Even otherwise

it is pertinent to note that the defendants have taken a vague

plea with regard to the availability of the remaining extent of

item no. 5 without disclosing the details of the remaining extent.

Section 106 of the Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023 provides

that the burden of proof as to any particular fact lies on that

person who wishes the Court to believe in its existence, unless it

is provided by any law that the proof of that fact shall lie on any 56 O.S. No.5782/2016

particular person. In the present case the burden of proof as to

existence of the remaining extent of land in item no.5 is on the

defendants who wish the Court to believe in its existence but

they have failed to discharge the same. Hence issue no.1 and

3 are answered in the negative. 25. Additional Issue no.2 : It is pertinent to note that the

defendants in their written statement have specifically pleaded

about the execution of the registered Will deed by their father

Mudappa on 11.12.2009 , whereby item no.3 of the suit property

is stated to have been bequeathed by Mudappa by dividing it

among st all his three children but despite such a contention the

plaintiff has neither amended the plaint nor filed any additional

pleadings under Order 8 Rule 9 CPC denying the execution of

the Will produced by the defendants at Ex.D16.However the

plaintiff has only attempted to deny the valid execution of Will

during the cross examination of the defendants. In spite of the

defendants producing the Will at Ex.D16 and relying on Ex.D2 57 O.S. No.5782/2016

which is the common written statement filed by the plaintiff and

defendants in O.S.No. 8404/2011, and further the plaintiff

herself admitting the bequest made under Will in the

registered relinquishment deed at Ex.P65 , the plaintiff has not

made any effort to amend the plaint and to seek a declaratory

relief in respect of the Will executed by Mudappa at Ex.D16 .

When a suit for partition is filed seeking the declaration of the

plaintiff's legal right in respect of her share in the suit schedule

property under Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act,1963 a suit

for mere declaration of such right is not maintainable when the

plaintiff is entitled to any additional reliefs. The plea of the

execution of the Will by Late Mudappa in the written statement

of the defendants has certainly cast a cloud over the right of

the plaintiff who is claiming succession rights. When a cloud is

cast on the right of the plaintiff, it is obligatory on the part of the

plaintiff to remove the cloud by taking a categorical stand in

respect of a Will and establish the invalidity of the Will to prove

her inheritance rights in respect of the estate left behind late 58 O.S. No.5782/2016

Mudappa . Until and unless the it is established that the Will

executed by Mudappa is invalid and non est in law the

plaintiff cannot seek the relief of partition and separate

possession. It is only after the registered Will is declared as null

and void that the suit property becomes available for partition.

In the above case no effort is made by the plaintiff to seek any

declaratory relief in respect of the invalidity of the Will either by

pleading that the said Will is forged or it is a result of fraud,

misrepresentation, coercion or undue influence. The claim of

succession rights on the death of Mudappa notwithstanding

the reference to the Will dtd 11.12.2009 at Ex.D16 in the

registered relinquishment deed at Ex.P65 and the defense

raised by the defendants regarding testamentary succession in

respect of the suit properties becomes unsustainable. In this

context it is also fruitful to refer to the judgment rendered in Colonel Shrawan Kumar Jaipuriyar vs Krishna Nandan Singh in Civil Appeal NO. 6760 OF 2019, the Supreme Court referring

to Court in Church of Christ Charitable Trust and Educational 59 O.S. No.5782/2016

Society Represented by its Chairman v. Ponniamman

Educational Trust Represented by its Chairman/ Managing

Trustee (2012) 8 SCC 706 and A.B.C. Laminart Pvt. Ltd. and

Another. A.P. Agencies, Salem, (1989) 2 SCC 163 the Apex court

has sought to explain that the cause of action means every fact

which, if traversed, would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove

in order to seek a decree and relief against the defendant. Cause

of action requires infringement of the right or breach of an

obligation and comprises of all material facts on which the right

and claim for breach is founded, that is, some act done by the

defendant to infringe and violate the right or breach an

obligation and for a right to exist, there must be a co-relative

duty which can be enforced in a law suit. .From the above

precedent it is evident that the pleadings narrated in the plaint

fail to establish the violation of a statutory right which creates

an enforceable right in the court of law on account of absence

of the challenge to the Will and in the result the plaint suffers

from non disclosure of a complete cause of action . When the 60 O.S. No.5782/2016

plaintiff has sought the relief of partition it becomes incumbent

upon the plaintiff to plead necessary facts and seek a

declaratory relief in respect of the alleged Will dtd 11.12.2009

so as to nullify the effect of Will as a declaratory relief in

respect of a Will executed by Mudappa should precede the

relief of partition and separate possession as no complete

determination of rights of the plaintiff can take place without

adjudicating on the Will set up by the defendants. It is also

pertinent to note that the plaintiff has not at all challenged the

legal competency of Mudappa to execute the Will in respect of

item no.3 of the suit properties on the premise that he was

entitled to execute the Will only to the extent of his share under Section 30 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and the

disposition of item no.3 of the suit property is beyond his legal

right. The very fact that the plaintiff has not challenged the Will

on the ground that Mudappa was not competent to execute the

Will in respect of item no.3 to the entire extent indicates that

the plaintiff has admitted that the disposition of the said 61 O.S. No.5782/2016

property by Mudappa was in respect of his self acquired

property which he had inherited from Nanjundappa and not in

respect of coparcenary property. Owing to absence of any

challenge to the competency of Mudappa it is deemed that

Mudappa had validly executed the Will as the lawful owner of

the entire property. 26. Section 34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 categorically

provides that any person entitled to any legal character, or to

any right as to any property, may institute a suit against any

person denying, or interested to deny, his title to such character

or right, and the court may in its discretion make therein a

declaration that he is so entitled, and the plaintiff need not in

such suit ask for any further relief:Provided that no court shall

make any such declaration where the plaintiff, being able to

seek further relief than a mere declaration of title, omits to do

so. In the above case the reliefs sought by the plaintiff qua the

relinquishment deed and partition are inadequate in as much 62 O.S. No.5782/2016

making the suit itself as not maintainable in the absence of any

challenge to the Will executed by late Mudappa under Section

34 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963. 27. Meanwhile when the oral evidence is examined it is

found that DW1/ the defendant no.2 has denied that Mudappa

had poor hearing capacity at the time of execution of Will at

Ex.D16 . DW1has further denied that Mudappa was not able to

understand what he was doing at the time of execution of

Ex.D16. DW1 has denied that Mudappa was unable to walk to

the office of the Advocate to execute the Will. In fact DW1 has

positively asserted Mudappa alone went to the office of the Sub

Registrar and to the office of the Advocate to execute the Will at

Ex.D16 on the date of execution. DW1 has denied that

defendant no.1 and himself had pressurized their father to

execute the Will as per their wish though he was not willing to

execute the Will. DW1 has categorically denied that defendant

no.1 and himself have coerced their father Mudappa to execute 63 O.S. No.5782/2016

the Will and they have further ensured that a larger share is

provided to them and a smaller share is allotted to the plaintiff.

At this stage it is pertinent to note that PW1 has admitted

during her cross examination on 1.1.2019 that on the basis of

the application submitted by the plaintiff at Ex.D1 she has

obtained water and sanitary connection to the property at item

no.3. On 14.3.2024 PW1 has further admitted that Ex.D1 was

submitted in respect of property number 256/3 which is part of

item no.3of the suit property. She has further deposed that

Ex.D18 -endorsement was issued by BWSSB pursuant to the

application filed by her. She has categorically admitted during

her cross examination that she had not given any other

document other than Will at the time of submitting her

application for water supply connection . PW1 has also

admitted that she is receiving rent of Rs. 10,000/- per month

from item no.3 of the suit property and she is paying taxes to

the BBMP with respect to property bearing no. 256/3. The khata

with respect to the said property is currently standing in her 64 O.S. No.5782/2016

name. Though she has deposed that her father has obtained

electric and water connection to the said property she has not

produced any documents in this regard. This deposition of the

plaintiff before the court reveals that the property acquired by

the plaintiff on the basis of the Will at Ex.D16 was acted upon.

Another significant factor to be noted is that the plaintiff has

also admitted the common written statement filed by the plaintiff

and defendant no.1 and 2 in O.S.No. 8404/2011 at Ex.D2. It is

pertinent to note that in common written statement filed by the

defendants and plaintiff, there is a clear admission about

execution of the registered Will executed by Mudappa on

11.12.2009 at paragraph no.8 of the written statement. In

addition to the same she has also admitted during her cross

examination on 14.3.2024 that she has been bequeathed with C

schedule property of the Will dtd 11.12.2009. This court has

already recorded a finding that the plaintiff has failed to prove

that the relinquishment deed is invalid and now the overall

assessment of the oral and documentary evidence reveals that 65 O.S. No.5782/2016

the plaintiff has failed to prove that the relinquishment deed at

EX.P65 is invalid and once she has failed to prove that it is an

invalid document the terms of the disposition are absolutely

binding on her .There fore the registered relinquishment deed

at Ex. P65 executed by the plaintiff in favour of defendants,

whereby the plaintiff has admitted the execution of the

registered Will by her father Mudappa on 11.12.2009

bequeathing C schedule property of the Will in her favour and

further relinquishing her rights in relation to all the other

movable and immovable properties acquired by her father under

the partition stand binding on the plaintiff . 28. Now the next question is whether the defendants who

have pleaded about the execution of the registered Will by

Mudappa are required to comply Section 67 of the Bharatiya

Sakshya Adhiniyam, 2023. At this stage it is apt to refer to Section 67 of the Bharatiya Sakshya Adhiniyam( Section

68 of the Indian Evidence Act) which reads as under: 66 Therefore the judgment relied upon by the plaintiff in T.

Surappa v. Satchindhanandadendra Saraswathiswamiji Public 68 O.S. No.5782/2016

Charitable Trust and others ILR 2008 KAR 2115 wherein legal

requirements for proof of Will were laid down are not applicable

to the facts of the case. Hence the question of the defendants

proving the valid execution of the registered WILL dated

11.12.2009 in respect of the Item No.3 of suit schedule property

either in terms of Section 67 of the BSA or any in other manner

does not arise. Therefore the additional no.2 does not arise for

consideration. 30. Additional Issue No.4 framed on 26.07.2024 :- statement and have categorically pleaded that the relief of

cancellation of the registered relinquishment deed as sought in

the amended plaint is barred by law of limitation. In para No.3 of

the additional written-statement filed by the defendants No.1 and

2 on 09.04.2021, it is stated that after lapse of 5 years from the

date of execution of the relinquishment deed, the plaintiff has

malafiedly challenged the said relinquishment deed and further

in para No.5 of the additional written-statement it is stated that

even though the plaintiff is well aware of the execution of the

registered relinquishment deed, the plaintiff has now strategically

come out with the concocted story that it is only after the

defendants have taken the stand regarding the registered

relinquishment deed, the plaintiff gained knowledge of the same. 70 O.S. No.5782/2016 31. The limitation period under Article 59 of the Limitation Act, 1963 is three years from when the facts entitling

the plaintiff to have the instrument or decree canceled or set

aside or the contract rescinded first become known to him. But

the explanation - 3 of T.P.Act provides that a registration of a

document is deemed knowledge of the factum of registration. In Janardhanam Prasad v. Ramdas (2007) 15 SCC 174, the

Supreme Court relying on Section 3 of the Transfer of Property

Act, 1882 has held that a person is said to have notice' of a fact

when he actually knows that fact, or when but for wilful

absentation from an enquiry or search which he ought to have

made , or gross negligence, he would have known it.The

explanation of Section 3 further provides that, any person

acquiring any immovable property or any part of, or share or

interest in, such property shall be deemed to have notice of the

title if any person who is for time being in actual possession

thereof. It is held that the principle of constructive notice is

applicable in respect of registered instrument. The plaintiff has 71 O.S. No.5782/2016

not bothered to challenge the relinquishment deed within 3

years from the date of registration of the relinquishment deed

dated 16.11.2011. If at all the plaintiff was aggrieved with the

relinquishment deed, she would have certainly challenged the

same within 2014, but suit is instituted only in the year 2016.

and therefore, it is barred by limitation. It is well-settled that

even if limitation is not raised as a defense, the court must

consider it suo motu. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Khatri

Hotels Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India (2011) 9 SCC 126 emphasized

that it is the duty of the court to dismiss suit barred by

limitation, irrespective of whether limitation is raised as an

objection and thus the relief of cancellation of the registered

release deed is barred by limitation. Hence additional issue

no.4 is answered in the affirmative. 32. Additional Issue No.1 framed on 02.09.2023 :- 33. Issue no.4 : In the background of the aforesaid

findings it can be concluded that the plaintiff has failed to prove

that the suit properties are the coparcenary and joint family

properties of the plaintiff and defendants . This court has

recorded a finding that item no.3 to 6 have devolved upon

Mudappa under Section 8 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956.

The plaintiff has admitted the execution of the Will at Ex.D16 in

the relinquishment deed at Ex.P65 in relation to item no.3 of the

suit properties. The plaintiff has admitted the acquisition of item

no.5 of the suit property in her oral evidence and she has

admitted that she has not questioned the disbursement of

compensation in favour of the defendant no.2. There is nothing

on record to demonstrate that remaining portion in item no.5 is 74 O.S. No.5782/2016

available for partition . The documents at Ex.D7 to 15 & D19 &

20 reveal that the portions of item no. 4 and 6 have been

disposed off by Muddapa and the defendants, and further the

plaintiff has in fact executed confirmation deed at Ex. D19 and 20. Even though the registered sale deeds and confirmations

have been produced by the defendants the plaintiff has not

amended the plaint describing the true state of affairs in terms

of providing the particulars of the sale deeds and the remaining

properties available for partition. When it is contention of the

defendants that the suit properties are not available for

partition, the plaintiff ought to have provided the particulars of

the properties available for partition but the plaintiff has failed

to establish the availability of suit item no. 4 and 6 for partition

by producing cogent and reliable evidence. Nothing material is

elicited to prove the existence of item no.4 and 6 properties and

consequentially the plaintiff has failed to prove the existence of

item no. 4 and 6 of the suit properties and even if such

properties are in existence then such properties by virtue of the 75 O.S. No.5782/2016

relinquishment deed at Ex.P65 vest with the defendants . In the

result the plaintiff is not entitled for the relief of partition and

cancellation of registered relinquishment deed dtd 16.11.2011.

Consequentially the grant of relief of permanent injunction and

mesne profits do not arise . In view of my findings on the above

issues, the suit of the plaintiff is liable to be dismissed. Hence, I

proceed to pass the following: Ex.P.70 Original Election ID card with notarized
 copy of it and since the notarized copy is
 the copy of the original and the original
 returned. Ex.P.71 Original PAN card with notarized copy of
 it and since the notarized copy is the copy
 of the original and the original is returned. b)Defendants' side : 80

 O.S. No.5782/2016