SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Organised scam by OYO?
DATE: 2024-01-27
SCORE: 602
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1accdwz/organised_scam_by_oyo/

--- POST TEXT ---

M 30 here, I recently booked a room in a hotel managed by OYO Rooms via booking.com.

The amount initially showed as Rs.2,000 for two days. I had made the payment already online. But when I reached the hotel, at the time of check-in, the hotel added another Rs.1,600 under “other” charges saying that’s what it shows in the system. As if they weren’t the ones who added it.

I immediately called OYO customer care and informed them about this added charges. The first thing they try to do is persuade me to pay the amount. When I refused, they tried to convince the hotel owner to remove the extra charges, he also refused saying that the tariff mentioned on the site is low and he can’t remove the charges. Then the customer care guy tries to remove the amount, and he does, but the hotel owned adds it again right in front of me and says that check-in is possible only with added charges. These were the same people who claimed they had no idea about the extra charges.

At this point, OYO Support guy instead of taking strict action against the hotel, talks me into getting an alternative. He gives a few suggestions which are far off and none of them work out. 

In the end, the support guy tells I only have two options, either pay extra charges and check-in or opt for a refund and leave. 

I chose the latter, but there is a twist there too. An online refund is not possible as the booking date and check-in time had crossed. In this case only an offline refund was possible. So the support guy sends me an email asking for my bank account details promising an offline refund. 

I leave the place after that email, find an alternative on my own and stay there.

Next day I get a call from OYO support that the refund won’t be possible. I am shocked. The reason they gave is that property is not validating my claims on refund. 

That’s when I found out that after I left the property, they not only removed the extra charges, they also processed my check-in. So as per OYO, I checked in, stayed there and checked out as well. So basically there was nothing for me to claim. Hence my refund was rejected. 

Is this not a clear case of fraud? How are they doing such scams openly? 

P.S: I have already raised a dispute with my CC issuing bank and a complaint on the National Consumer Helpline. But I have little hopes if either will help.