Judgment pronounced through Video Conference. The

 original application is disposed of with directions vide separate

 Judgment. Pending interlocutory application, if any, shall stand disposed

 of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, JM

 Sd/- Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati, EM

O.A. No.195/2021 (SZ)
04th May 2022. SE. 2 Item No.3: Mr. T. V. Sekar for R2
 Mr. Nishanth
 for Mr. M.R. Gokul Krishnan for R5

Judgment Reserved on: 31.03.2022

Judgment Pronounced on: 04.05.2022

CORAM: According to the applicant, neither the Minor Irrigation Department

nor the private parties are entitled to encroach into the water body

and do that mischief. Though representations were made to the

authorities, they have not taken any action. That prompted the

applicant to file this application seeking the following reliefs: (iv) Whether the Irrigation Department has obtained necessary
 clearance or permission, if any, required for establishing the lift
 irrigation scheme for the proposed project, on the basis of which they
 are now setting up the pumping station in the water body, (v) Whether there is any encroachment made into the buffer zone or
 lake by any private party, (vi) Whether the lake has been encroached for the purpose of depositing
 building debris and wastes and (vii) Whether any untreated sewage is being let into the lake, (viii) Ascertain the quality of water, and if it is contaminated to trace out
 the source and suggest appropriate remedial measures to restore the
 same to its original position, (ix) Whether any damage has been caused to environment on account of
 the alleged illegal activities and if so, what is the quantum of
 compensation to be recovered from the persons who have caused the
 damage, apart from suggesting the remedial measures to restore the
 damage caused to environment and the cost required for this
 purpose. 6. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board was designated

as Nodal Agency for coordination and for providing necessary

logistics for this purpose. 7. The 1st Respondent filed Counter Affidavit contending that the

Yele Mallappa Shetty Lake/Tank is located in Bidarahalli Hobli,

Bengaluru East Taluk, Bengaluru Urban District and the tank was

constructed in the year 1920 and the total extent is 508 Acres 16

Guntas, which covers five villages, it is being maintained by the

Minor Irrigation Department. 8. As regards the alleged encroachment in the said tank, the 1st

Respondent had already filed complaints dated 28.11.2019 and 7 13.05.2020 in Avalahalli Police Station evidenced by Annexure R1

produced along with the Counter Statement. 9. Following the said complaints, FIR bearing No. 0103/2020 has

been registered against the encroachers in Avalahalli Police Station

Bengaluru evidenced by Annexure R2. They have written letters to

the Tahsildar, Bengaluru East Taluk, K.R. Puram, Bengaluru and

the ADLR Bengaluru East Taluk requesting them to conduct the

survey and fix up the tank boundary for encroachment removal. 10. Regarding the dumping of debris in the periphery of the

tank, a letter dated 26.07.2020 has been sent to Sub Inspector,

Avalahalli Police Station, Avalahalli, Bengaluru East Taluk by them

to control the dumping of the debris and the waste in and around

the tank evidenced by Annexure R3 letter. In order to avoid further

encroachment and restore the tank, a proposal has been submitted

to the Chief Engineer, Minor Irrigation Department on an estimate

amount of Rs.500.00 Lakhs in which provision for chain link

fencing has been made. 11. Immediately after receiving the approval for the above

said proposal from the Chief Engineer, Minor Irrigation Department

with co-ordination of Revenue Department (Tahsildar and the

ADLR) Chain Link Fencing work would be carried out in order to

avoid any further encroachment into the water body. 12. Hoskote Taluk is situated in Bengaluru Rural District

and the said Taluk is a drought prone area. Ground water table has 8 decreased below 1500 feet. Success rate of bore well in summer

months depletes to 50%. Thus, there is scarcity for drinking water

in that Taluk. 13. Considering these factors, the Government of Karnataka

has approved the LIS Scheme to fill the tanks with secondary

treated water to increase ground water static level. 14. The work of filling of 38 tanks in Hoskote Taluk,

Bengaluru Rural District from Medihalli STP using 15 MLD of

secondary treated water and 25 MLD of secondary treated water

from K.R. Puram and 3 MLD of secondary treated water from

Kadugodi STP has been administratively approved for Rs.149.85

crores. The work is tendered and is in progress. 15. The main purpose of this Project is to feed 43 MLD of STP

water to 38 tanks of drought prone areas of Hoskote Taluk of

Bengaluru Rural District which will increase the underground water

table, which will in turn benefit the agricultural lands, by

increasing the water levels in open wells and bore wells located in

the downstream of the tank. The said project will also provide

drinking water through bore wells. 16. By constructing the jack well pump house and

impounding reservoir, the water storage capacity of the tank in this

area will increase by around five times, as the impounding reservoir

is constructed to a depth of 6 meters from the original ground level.

Hence, water storage capacity of the tank will not be reduced. 9 17. Since the outlet from Medahalli STP Plant is situated in

the periphery of the tank, there is no alternate area to construct

jack well for the pump house. 18. The pump house and the jack well are already under

construction. Since the pump house floor level is above the

maximum water level of the tank, even if the water level increases,

the pumping station will not be inundated in water. 19. The project has been taken up in view of increasing the

ground water table by filling 38 tanks situated in drought prone

area in Bengaluru Rural District in the interest of general public. 20. The said project is similar to the KC Valley LIS Scheme,

which is a role model scheme in Karnataka where nearly 100 tanks

in Kolar District have been filled with the secondary treated water,

which has improved underground static water level to a depth of

500 to 600 feet in tank filling areas which has reduced water

scarcity in that District. So they prayed for passing appropriate

orders accepting their contentions and prayed for dismissal of the

application. 21. The matter was taken up on 22.10.2021 and this

Tribunal considered the Joint Committee Report dated nil e-filed on

21.10.2021 extracted in Para 2 of the order which reads as follows: 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 22. The case was posted to 24.11.2021 for filing objection to

the report and completion of pleadings and consideration of report. 23. On 04.01.2022, this Tribunal directed the State

Departments to file their independent report regarding the action

taken against the encroachments and steps taken by them to

restore the water body to its original position and also consider the

question as to whether the proposed pumping station can be shifted

to a safer place, as if it is constructed within the buffer zone and if 19 the water level increases pumping station is likely to be inundated

in water. 24. The case was posted to 28.01.2022 for consideration of

further reports. 25. The Pollution Control Board filed an independent report

dated nil e-filed on 01.12.2021 which reads as follows: Compt/LOK/BCD/2600/2018/ARE-1. Further, it is to be
noted that, Yele Mallappa Shetty Lake is a part of South
Pinakini/South Pennar/Thenpennai River and the issue of
Frothing of chemical foam in this River has also been dealt
before Hon'ble NGT vide OA no.111 of 2020 (Southern
Zone). The case has been disposed vide order dated
28.06.2021 wherein directions have been issued regarding
implementation of recommendations made by the Joint
Committee. Now, Sri. J.Jagan Kumar, resident of Bengaluru has filed
petition/application at Hon'ble National Green Tribunal,
Southern Zone (SZ), Chennai with regard to the 21 encroachment of Yelemallappachetty Lake, relocate the
project of Minor Irrigation project Jack Well Pump House
work, sewage is being drained into lake thereby water is
being contaminated and polluted, road is also constructed
encroaching into the buffer zone of the lake, though
complaints have been made to the authorities, they have
not taken any action and hence the same has been
admitted in Hon'ble NGT (SZ) in the name of Original
Application No.195 of 2021(SZ). The Hon'ble National Green Tribunal, Southern Zone,
Chennai has passed an order dated 08.09.2021 with
respect to Original Application No.195 of 2021 regarding
indiscriminate encroachment in Yele Mallappa Shetty
Lake/Tank and its buffer zone. In order to implement the
Hon'ble NGT (SZ) order dated: 08.9.2021, the Karnataka
State Pollution Control Board has issued an Office
Memorandum vide no.PCB/31/Infra/GEN/21/3011 dated
22.09.2021 w.r.t constitution of Joint Committee.
Accordingly, the preliminary meeting was conducted under
the Chairmanship of the Deputy Commissioner on
24.9.2021 at the Deputy Commissioner (Bengaluru Urban
District) Meeting Hall. Further, the spot inspection of Yele
Mallappa Shetty Lake was carried out by the Joint
Committee on 11.10.2021 wherein all the respondents &
applicant Sri.J.Jagan Kumar were accompanied for
inspection to ascertain the ground reality. The observations
made by the Joint Committee and action taken w.r.t Hon'ble
NGT directions issued in the interim order dated
08.09.2021 has already been submitted to Hon'ble NGT.
Now, in the order dated 22.10.2021, Hon'ble NGT has
called to answer the allegations made in the application
independently with supporting documents. Hence, apart
from the above detailed actions taken by KSPCB, the
KSPCB is submitting the independent report as below: 22 23 24 25 26 27 13. The Registry is directed to communicate this order to
the official respondents and also to the Deputy
Commissioner/Collector, Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru
Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Chairman, Karnataka State
Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), Principal Secretary for
Environment, Additional Chief Secretary for Minor Irrigation
Department and the Chief Secretary to Government by e-
mail for their information and also to submit their
independent report to this Tribunal regarding the action
taken on the basis of the observations made by the Joint
Committee appointed by this Tribunal to protect the water 32 body from their side." 29. The case was posted to 31.03.2022 for further action

taken report. 30. The matter was taken up on 31.03.2022 and on that day

this Tribunal considered the report submitted by the Deputy

Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban District dated 30.03.2022 e-filed

on 31.03.2022 extracted in Para 2 of the Order which reads as

follows: 33 34 35 31. Since the applicant did not appear, this Tribunal heard

the Counsel appearing for the Respondents, giving opportunity for

the parties to file their Written Submissions within a week and has

taken for Judgment. But no such written submission was filed. 32. We have considered the pleadings and also the

documents produced and submission made by the official

respondents. 33. The points that arise for consideration are: POINTS: 34. The grievance of the applicant in the application is that

there are large scale encroachments into the Yele Mallappa Shetty

Lake/Tank and its buffer zone and the Karnataka Government

Minor Irrigation Department is proceeding with the Lift Irrigation 36 Scheme, Jack well Pump House work in that area. Further, private

residential apartments, layouts were also established in the area

and they are dumping their construction waste and other waste by

encroaching into the water body. Untreated sewage is also let into

the water body polluting the water. In order to ascertain this aspect,

this Tribunal appointed a Joint Committee with the Pollution

Control Board as Nodal Agency and called for a report and the

committee has filed a Report that the lake is having a total extent of

508 Acres and 16 Guntas and as per the survey conducted, there is

an encroachment of 21 Acres 04 Guntas (both Private and

Governments), out of which 11 Acres and 05 Guntas were

encroached for public purposes such as National Highway-75

connecting Roads, STP and Navy Training Centre and they were in

existence for several years. 9 Acres and 39 Guntas were encroached

by private parties for various purposes such as agriculture,

plantation, mud filled up, layout formation, etc. and these private

encroachments will be removed by taking appropriate decision in

accordance with law. 35. It is also seen from the records that certain criminal

cases have been registered against the private owners in respect of

the same. It is seen from the independent report submitted by 1 st

Respondent that the Pumpwell House is being constructed in that

area for the purpose of lifting water and treating the same and

discharged into certain tanks which are dry so as to enhance the

ground water level in those areas. They have also mentioned that

such a step was taken in kolar and it was successful and now they 37 are intending to extend this project in Hoskote Taluk. They intend

to fill up 38 tanks in Hoskote Taluk, Bengaluru Rural District by

drawing treated water from Medihalli STP and KR Puram STP and

Kadukodi STP for which administrative sanction for Rs.149.85

Crores has been granted and the work was tendered and the work

is in progress. It was also mentioned in the report of the 1 st

Respondent that sufficient height has been provided for

construction of the jack well pump house to avoid it being

inundated in water when water level raises. 36. Further after the construction, the storage capacity of the

lake will increase by about five times, as the impounding reservoir

is constructed to a depth of 6 meters from the original ground level.

So the apprehension of the applicant, that it is likely to reduce the

water storing area and it will cause pollution appears to be without

any basis. Further, selection of these areas has been justified by

stating that the outlet from Medihalli STP Plant is situated in the

periphery of the tank and hence there is no alternate area to

construct Jack Well for the Pump House and it is suitable for that

purpose. So, under such circumstances, considering the public

interest and also the necessity for such a project to cater to the

needs of the area which is draught prone to provide water during

non monsoon season, we feel that there is no necessity to direct

this to be removed from that area though normally any construction

in the water body should not be encouraged and this should not be

taken as a permission granted for the Government in future to

undertake any such activities in the water body as encroachment in 38 the water body and causing pollution to the water body was

deprecated by the Hon'ble Apex Court and various High Courts

including the High Court of Karnataka and the Principal Bench of

National Green Tribunal and this Bench in several cases when such

issues were considered by the Tribunal. 37. Since the construction of roads and other public utility

services have been established in that area since long time and it is

being used by Public, we feel that after lapse of long period, it is not

proper to direct them to be removed from the water body but effort

must be made by the authorities to avoid free flow of water being

obstructed and on account of construction of the National Highway,

if there is any such possibility, then they will have to provide

necessary vents for ensuring free flow of water and collection of

water into the water body from the areas and from the Nalas and

from the strong water drains and if any obstruction has been

caused to the same, then remedial measures will have to be taken

by the authorities to restore such inlet and outlets to the water

body. 38. As regards the private encroachments are concerned, the

authorities are taking steps to survey the area and once the survey

is completed they will be taking appropriate steps to remove the

same and then protect the steps to avoid further encroachment in

future. 39 39. As regards the pollution is concerned, the regulators are

expected to take appropriate action to prevent discharge of

untreated sewage into the water body, so as to prevent

contamination of the water body and if there is any violation found,

suitable action must be taken against those persons who are

responsible for such discharge and if there are any lapses on the

part of the local bodies in dealing with the liquid waste

management by providing necessary STPs and underground sewage

system, that will have to be expedited by the Bengaluru

Mahanagara Palika. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palika is

directed to comply with recommendations made by the Pollution

Control Board in the report dated nil e-filed on 30.11.2021 which

was extracted in the previous paragraphs. 40. Under such circumstances, we feel that the application

can be disposed of by giving following directions: (iii) If the present construction of Highway does not have

 sufficient mechanism to ensure free flow of water, then

 the State Government is directed to take appropriate

 steps through the concerned department to provide

 necessary vents (box type) to ensure free flow of water

 into the water body and also ensure flow of water into the

 water body through the inlets and surplus water through

 to outlets to downstream area to handle the water that

 the lake receives during rainy season. (iv) If there is any obstruction caused to the same, then the

 concerned Department which is in charge of the

 protection of the water body is directed to take 41 appropriate steps to remove the same and restore the

 inlet and outlet to ensure free flow of water into and out

 of the water body. (v) The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is

 directed to complete the underground sewage system and

 provide necessary STPs to treat the sewage generated in

 that area and treat the same before it is being discharged

 into the water body by reducing the time line given to

 complete as December 2027 by taking steps to expedite

 the same. (vi) If any illegal discharge is being done by any private

 person, then they are directed to take necessary action

 against those persons including launching of prosecution

 and imposing penalty and block such discharge so as to

 avoid untreated sewage being let into the water body. (vii) The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is

 directed to implement the recommendation made by the

 State Pollution Control Board in the report dated nil e-

 filed on 30.11.2021 before this Tribunal. (viii) The Revenue Department is directed to take appropriate

 steps to conduct a survey to identify the unauthorized

 encroachments into the water body by private persons

 after conducting proper survey and initiate proceedings

 as per rules in force against them to remove the

 encroachment and restore the water body and provide

 necessary protective mechanism to avoid future 42 encroachment and pollution to the water body within a

 shorter time frame at any rate within a period of six

 months. (ix) The Pollution Control Board is directed to monitor the

 implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules 2016

 and Liquid Waste Management in that area and if there

 is any violation in carrying out the implementation of

 these Rules and non compliance of the directions issued

 by the Principal Bench of National Green Tribunal in OA

 No. 606 of 2018 and if there is any non-compliance then

 they are directed to take appropriate action including the

 imposition of Environmental Compensation as directed

 by the Principal Bench in that case in accordance with

 law. (x) The Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary for Environment,

 Secretary for Revenue, (Local Administration) Urban

 Development are directed to monitor the implementation

 of the action plan submitted by the Regulators and if

 there is any financial assistance or other technical

 assistance required from the Government, then they are

 directed to provide the same, so as to implement the

 directions of this Tribunal in its letter and spirit. 41. The points are answered accordingly. 43 42. In the result, this application is allowed in part and

disposed of with the following direction: The State of Karnataka is directed not to undertake

 any construction activities of any public utility 44 services including the laying of roads in the water

 body, which can affect water flow and reduce its

 water storing capacity. (iii) If the present construction of Highway does not have

 sufficient mechanism to ensure free flow of water,

 then the State Government is directed to take

 appropriate steps through the concerned department

 to provide necessary vents (box type) to ensure free

 flow of water into the water body and also ensure

 flow of water into the water body through the inlets

 and surplus water through to outlets to downstream

 area to handle the water that the lake receives during

 rainy season. (iv) If there is any obstruction caused to the same, then

 the concerned Department which is in charge of the

 protection of the water body is directed to take

 appropriate steps to remove the same and restore the

 inlet and outlet to ensure free flow of water into and

 out of the water body. (v) The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is

 directed to complete the underground sewage system

 and provide necessary STPs to treat the sewage

 generated in that area and treat the same before it is

 being discharged into the water body by reducing the

 time line given to complete as December 2027 by

 taking steps to expedite the same. 45 (vi) If any illegal discharge is being done by any private

 person, then they are directed to take necessary

 action against those persons including launching of

 prosecution and imposing penalty and block such

 discharge so as to avoid untreated sewage being let

 into the water body. (vii) The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is

 directed to implement the recommendation made by

 the State Pollution Control Board in the report dated

 nil e-filed on 30.11.2021 before this Tribunal. (viii) The Revenue Department is directed to take

 appropriate steps to conduct a survey to identify the

 unauthorized encroachments into the water body by

 private persons after conducting proper survey and

 initiate proceedings as per rules in force against

 them to remove the encroachment and restore the

 water body and provide necessary protective

 mechanism to avoid future encroachment and

 pollution to the water body within a shorter time

 frame at any rate within a period of six months. (ix) The Pollution Control Board is directed to monitor

 the implementation of Solid Waste Management

 Rules 2016 and Liquid Waste Management in that

 area and if there is any violation in carrying out the

 implementation of these Rules and non compliance

 of the directions issued by the Principal Bench of 46 National Green Tribunal in OA No. 606 of 2018 and if

 there is any non-compliance then they are directed to

 take appropriate action including the imposition of

 Environmental Compensation as directed by the

 Principal Bench in that case in accordance with law. (x) The Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary for

 Environment, Secretary for Revenue, (Local

 Administration) Urban Development are directed to

 monitor the implementation of the action plan

 submitted by the Regulators and if there is any

 financial assistance or other technical assistance

 required from the Government, then they are

 directed to provide the same, so as to implement the

 directions of this Tribunal in its letter and spirit. (xi) Considering the circumstances, the parties are

 directed to bear their respective costs in the

 application. (xii) The Registry is directed to communicate this order to

 the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary for

 Environment and Forest, Secretary for Urban

 Development, Secretary for Revenue, the Chairman,

 Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, the Joint

 Commissioner - Bengaluru East, the Deputy

 Commissioner - Bengaluru Urban District, the

 Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara

 Palike, the Additional Chief Secretary for Minor 47 Irrigation Department for their information and

 compliance of the directions. 43. With the above directions and observations, the Original

Application is disposed of. Sd/- Justice K. Ramakrishnan, JM

 Sd/- Dr. Satyagopal Korlapati, EM

O.A. No.195/2021 (SZ)
04th May 2022. SE. 48