Building Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) for agriculture, advancing the growth of Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), and increasing digitisation of land records, are some of the key highlights from the manifesto of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Lacking plans about the use and regulation of artificial intelligence, use of drones, health stack, cybersecurity and Smart Cities, the manifesto does not have much to offer on the technology front.

Surprisingly, although the ruling party has been promoting Aadhaar as one of the fundamental components of India’s DPI and IndiaStack, it is not mentioned even once in the manifesto. The BJP has also not talked about its plans to introduce the Digital India Act, rules for the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, and implementation of the India Enterprise Architecture (InDEA) project envisioned by the IT Ministry for establishing digital structures for e-governance.

Read about the Indian National Congress (INC) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] 2024 manifestos here and here .

The BJP aims to advance the use of DPIs for public service delivery and share the technology with partner countries, but the manifesto does not provide details on it.

2. Emerging technologies:

3. Agriculture:

4. Education:

5. Digital infrastructure:

6. Digital governance:

7. Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC):

8. Cybersecurity:

The manifesto does not include a timeline for devising the National Cyber Security Policy, which has been in the making for years now. This is despite the government informing the Parliament that a total of 50 websites belonging to India’s central government and state governments were hacked in 2022 and there were eight data breach incidents connected to government organisations in the same year.

9. Gig workers:

10. Startups:

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event