SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Can anybody describe organized/professional crime in India?
DATE: 2014-07-23
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2bgief/can_anybody_describe_organizedprofessional_crime/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hello! I apologize if this is not the right subreddit for this inquiry. I am writing a novel and one of the main characters was a thief and confidence man in Mumbai. I would really appreciate any information or insight on how organized crime works in India, and along the west coast in particular.

Some more context: The character was a confidence man, thief, and smuggler. He started stealing and conning in '98, fell in with a couple more experienced criminals in 2000 and continued to work with them until 2010. He and his associates were middleweight thieves; not high volume gun running, economic espionage, or wide-scale drug distributors, but they were well-above petty burglary or stick ups. Generally, they used subtler methods such as bribery, hacking, forgery, and fraud. At their boldest, they would resort to impersonation and blackmail. This character's particular specialty is planning and observation: 'reading' expressions or body language and responding shrewdly. "The Face," so to speak.

I know that the concept of the "thief crew" is inherently romantic (mythic, even) but I would like to lend it as much authenticity as possible. I really know nothing about crime there, save for what I've read on Wikipedia. 

Some specific questions:
Is it feasible for these guys to work as freelancers instead of belonging to a specific syndicate or 'family?' How much trouble would they need to cause to be on the local law enforcement's radar? On the government's radar? What task force would deal with these crimes?

If anybody could recommend webpages, articles, or other books, that would be fantastic. I would also welcome any comments or suggestions on where else I could post this. (apparently /r/crime doesn't take text posts anymore).

tl;dr: Please tell me about organized crime in India.