Heard learned counsel for the applicant, learned counsel for the complainant and learned A.G.A. for the State as well as perused the record. The present bail application has been filed by accused-applicant seeking bail in Case Crime No.102 of 2024, under Sections 406 , 411 , 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 506 I.P.C., P.S. Bijnour, District Lucknow. It is alleged in the prosecution case that informant deposited Rs.80,00,000/- in his bank account at I.D.B.I. bank situated at Bijnour Chauraha. This money was deposited after selling his land. It is further alleged that being a less educated person he has never got issued any ATM card from the Bank and as such he used to withdraw the money manually. It is also alleged that on 08.04.2024, the informant went to the Bank where a clerk of the Bank informed that about Rs.40,00,000/- have been withdrawn from his account and when he enquired as to who has withdrawn the money, the bank officials did not disclose anything and he was asked to firstly lodge the F.IR. Learned counsel for applicant submits that in the F.I.R., the allegation is on the applicant as well as some unknown persons however, no investigation has been conducted regarding some unknown persons. He further submits that no incident took place. The story of the prosecution that applicant using his acquaintance somehow obtained the aadhaar card of the informant and then got issued ATM card cannot be believed as the ATM card is delivered through registered post on the address of the account holder however, no investigation regarding this has been conducted. There is no recovery of ATM card from the applicant, no recovery of any cash except Rs.4800/- which belongs to the applicant. He also submits that story of the prosecution that applicant has linked some other SIM to the informant's account and using that SIM has withdrawn money is also improbable as no SIM has been recovered neither any messages received on that SIM has been recovered. Offences are triable by magistrate. Charge-sheet has been filed. Applicant is in jail since 12.04.2024 however, he has no criminal antecedent. Learned A.G.A. as well as learned counsel for the complainant have opposed the bail prayer and submit that the informant was illiterate person, he has been cheated by the applicant who by misusing his acquaintance had obtained the aadhaar card of the informant after that he got the SIM linked with ATM card for the bank account of the informant. Perused the record. On due consideration to the submissions advanced, perusal of the record as also the fact that the applicant is languishing in jail since 12.04.2024 having no criminal antecedents, offences are triable by magistrate, without expressing any opinion on merits of the case, I find it to be a fit case for enlarging the applicant on bail. Accordingly, the bail application is allowed. Let the applicant Shiv Kumar @ Pintu Yadav be released on bail in aforesaid case crime number subject to his furnishing a personal bond and two reliable sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court concerned with the following conditions: Order Date :- 22.7.2024
 
Saurabh Yadav/-