1. This acquittal appeal filed by the appellant/State arises out of the judgment

 dated 03.01.2017 passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track

 Court, Raipur, C.G. in Sessions Trial No.27/2016, whereby the learned trial

 Court acquitted the accused persons/respondents herein of the charge

 under Sections 450, 328, 323 read with 34 and 376 (?k) of Indian Penal

 Code (for short, ' IPC '). 2. Case of the prosecution, in brief, is that on 20.06.2015, victim (PW-1), aged

 about 48 years, lodged a Dehati Nalisi (Ex.P-2) stating therein that she was

 working as a Nurse at Maternity Home Pandri, Raipur. On 19.06.2015, she

 was on duty from 8:00 pm onwards along with two other female staff

 members and after locking the main door of the hospital, they all went to

 sleep at around 10:00 pm as there were no patients. It is alleged further

 that while she was sleeping, at around 2:00 am, she woke up upon hearing

 some noise and saw two unknown persons, aged about 30-35 years,

 wearing masks and gloves, searching the cupboard in her room. When she

 started shouting, one of them caught hold of her, pushed her on the bed,

 forcibly put three tablets into her mouth, gagged her mouth with a piece of

 cloth and tied her with a Dupatta. Thereafter, both the accused persons

 committed sexual intercourse with her one by one and after committing the

 offence, they searched the drawers to get valuable items and fled away

 from there. At about 6:15 am, sister-in-charge entered the room, found her

 in that condition and removed the cloth from her mouth and after that, she

 informed the incident to her. On the basis of Dehati Nalisi (Ex.P-2), FIR

 (Ex.P-23) has been registered against the two unknown persons. 3. During investigation, spot map was prepared vide Ex.P-11, consent letter

 (Ex.P-3) of prosecutrix was obtained and she was sent for medical

 examination where Dr. S.N. (PW-11) examined the prosecutrix and did not

 give any definite opinion regarding recent forcible sexual intercourse nor

 did find any sign of injury over the body of the prosecutrix either internally

 or externally and gave her MLC report vide Ex.P-21. Vide Ex.P-1, night

 dress and undergarment of prosecutrix were seized. From the spot, two

 beds, one dupatta, one saree and other articles were seized vide Ex.P-8.

 Seized articles were sent to FSL for chemical examination and as per FSL 3 report (Ex.P-39), although seminal spots and human spermatozoa have

 been found on the underwear & slide of prosecutrix, but the subsequent

 DNA examination report (Ex.P-50) did not find any male DNA profile.

 Accused persons/respondents were taken into custody on 16.10.2015 vide

 Exs.P-30 & 31 and after more than three months of the incident, their

 memorandum statements were recorded vide Exs.P-12 & 13 respectively,

 pursuant to which, three notes of Rs.100/-, one Bermuda and T-shirt were

 seized from the respondent No.2 and from respondent No.1, two notes of

 Rs.100/-, T-shirt and jeans were seized vide Ex.P-15. Statements of the

 witnesses were recorded and after completing investigation, charge-sheet

 was filed against the accused persons/respondents before the concerned

 trial Court under Sections 450 , 328 , 323 read with 34 and 376(?k) of IPC .

 Accused persons/respondents abjured their guilt and prayed for trial. 4. The prosecution, in order to bring home the offence, examined as many as

 11 witnesses in support of its case and exhibited 51 documents connecting

 the respondents/accused persons to the crime in question. However, in

 their defence, respondents/accused persons have examined none and not

 exhibited any document. 5. The trial Court, after hearing counsel for the parties and appreciating the

 evidence on record, by the impugned judgment acquitted the accused

 persons/respondents herein of said charges leveled against them. 6. Learned counsel for the appellant/State would submit that the trial Court is

 unjustified in acquitting the accused persons / respondents herein of said

 charges by recording perverse findings. She would further submit that there

 is sufficient evidence available on record to show that respondents are the

 perpetrators of the crime in question. She would also submit that

 respondents made extra-judicial confession before PW-5 Shiv Prasad Patel 4 and PW-6 Sharad Pandey, admitting that on the date of incident, they had

 committed sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix and despite such crucial

 evidence, the learned trial Court has committed grave error in acquitting

 the accused persons/respondents without appreciating the evidence on

 record in its correct perspective. Thus, the impugned judgment of acquittal

 suffers from perversity and illegality, therefore, the same is liable to be set

 aside. 7. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents would support the

 impugned judgment and submit that an extra-judicial confession is a very

 weak piece of evidence and the same has also not been proved by the

 prosecution beyond reasonable doubt. It is further contended that on the

 date of incident, the respondents were talking to each other in an

 intoxicated condition under Mowa over-bridge with respect to commission

 of theft and rape in the yellow coloured building, but during the said

 discussion, they have not disclosed specifically about the identity or status

 of the victim nor revealed the date and time of the incident and the same

 was not voluntarily disclosed before PW-5 Shiv Prasad Patel. Therefore,

 such a casual discussion between the respondents does not come under

 the category of extra-judicial confession. He would further submit that as

 per the medical evidence, there was no injury mark either externally or

 internally over the person of the victim and the doctor who examined the

 victim did not give any definite opinion regarding recent forcible sexual

 intercourse with the prosecutrix. Therefore, the present appeal filed by the

 appellant/State be dismissed. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material

 available on record. 9. The Supreme Court in the matter of Jafarudheen and others vs. State of

 Kerala reported in (2022) 8 SCC 440 has considered the scope of

 interference in Appeal against acquittal, which reads as under:- 10. Now the question would be whether the respondents are the author of the

 crime in question? 11. PW-1 prosecutrix has stated in her deposition that on the date of incident,

 faces of both the assailants were covered and they were wearing gloves

 and black coloured clothes. She has also stated that she does not know the

 persons present in the Court nor does she know whether she had seen

 them before or whether they had committed such offence. Thus, she was

 unable to identify the accused persons and is not sure whether the offence

 was committed by the persons present in the Court or not. This apart, no

 test identification parade has been conducted by the prosecution either to

 identify the accused persons or to establish the seizure of the clothes from

 the accused persons. Furthermore, PW-5 Shiv Prasad Patel has stated that on the date of

 incident, at about 5:00 to 6:00 pm, he was standing along with his friend

 and having tea under Mowa overbridge, at that time, accused

 persons/respondents came there in an inebriated condition, sat nearby and

 started consuming ganja and discussed each other about the commission

 of theft and rape in a yellow coloured building, but, during this 6 conversation, the respondents have not specifically stated about the

 identity of the victim nor disclosed the date and time of the alleged incident

 and they were discussing each other in an intoxicated condition and such

 discussion was not stated to be voluntarily before the PW-5 Shiv Prasad

 Patel. 12. In the matter of Sahadevan vs. State of Tamil Nadu1 , their Lordships of

 the Supreme Court further considered the earlier decisions including Balwinder Singh v. State of Punjab2 and pertinently laid down the

 principle in paragraphs 15.1, 15.8 and 16 as under : 15.8. Extrajudicial confession must be established to be true and
 made voluntarily and in a fit state of mind. The words of the
 witnesses must be clear, unambigous and should clearly convey
 that the accused is the perpetrator of the crime. The extrajudicial
 confession can be accepted and can be the basis of conviction, if
 it passes the test of credibility. The extrajudicial confession should
 inspire confidence and the court should find out whether there are
 other cogent circumstances on record to support it. [Ref. Sk. Yusuf
 v. State of W.B. , (2011) 11 SCC 754 and Pancho v. State of
 Haryana, (2011) 10 SCC 165]

 The principles 16. Upon a proper analysis of the abovereferred judgments of this
 Court, it will be appropriate to state the principles which would make
 an extrajudicial confession an admissible piece of evidence capable
 of forming the basis of conviction of an accused. These percepts
 would guide the judicial mind while dealing with the veracity of cases
 where the prosecution heavily relies upon an extrajudicial confession
 alleged to have been made by the accused : 1(2012) 6 SCC 403
2 1995 Supp (4) SCC 259 7 (ii) It should be made voluntarily and should be truthful. (iii) It should inspire confidence. (iv) An extrajudicial confession attains greater credibility and
 evidentiary value if it is supported by a chain of cogent
 circumstances and is further corroborated by other prosecution
 evidence. (v) For an extrajudicial confession to be the basis of conviction, it
 should not suffer from any material discrepancies and inherent
 improbabilities. (vi) Such statement essentially has to be proved like any other fact
 and in accordance with law. 13. Reverting to the facts of the present case in light of the principles of law

 laid down by the Supreme Court in the aforesaid cases, it appears from the

 record that on the date of incident, respondents, in an intoxicated condition,

 were talking to each other under Mowa over-bridge. However, it also

 appears that respondents have not specifically stated about the identity of

 the victim, commission of offence with the victim nor disclosed the date and

 time of the incident and they were merely discussing each other in an

 intoxicated condition and such discussion was not stated to be voluntarily

 before the PW-5 Shiv Prasad Patel. Therefore, the such casual discussion

 between the respondents cannot be said to be extra-judicial confession. In

 view of above, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the alleged

 discussion made between the respondents to be extra-judicial confession.

 Furthermore, the confessional memorandum statements recorded by the

 Police from the accused persons are inadmissible in evidence in terms of Section 26 of the Evidence Act, 1872. Moreover, the seizure which was

 effected three months after the incident does not establish any connection

 with the respondents and the prosecution has also failed to prove the

 same. This apart, Dr. S.N. (PW-11) who examined the prosecutrix did not

 find any sign of injury over the body of the prosecutrix either internally or 8 externally nor did give any definite opinion regarding recent forcible sexual

 intercourse. 14. The learned trial Court has elaborately discussed the evidence led by the

 prosecution and after analyzing the entire evidence led by the prosecution

 come to the conclusion that there is no cogent and clinching evidence on

 record to show that accused persons/respondents are the perpetrators of

 the crime in question and further held that the prosecution has failed to

 prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and as such, acquitted the

 accused persons / respondents of the said charges. 15. After considering the material available on record as well as the elaborate

 judgment impugned passed by the trial Court, we are of considered opinion

 that the judgment impugned acquitting the accused persons / respondents

 herein of the said charges is just and proper and does not call for any

 interference. 16. Accordingly, this appeal by the appellant/State against the acquittal of the

 accused persons / respondents herein of the aforesaid charges is hereby

 dismissed.