JYOTI SINGH, J. I.A. 5896/2022 (under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC , by
 Plaintiffs) and I.A. 6308/2022 (under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC , by
 Defendant No.1) 1. This judgment will dispose two applications, one under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC filed by the Plaintiffs and the other under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC preferred by Defendant No. 1, seeking
 vacation of ex parte ad interim injunction granted vide order dated
 13.04.2022, restraining the Defendants inter alia from making
 available for downloads or in any manner unauthorizedly using
 Plaintiffs' copyrighted work through MYFAB11 App or any other Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 1 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 similar App using the impugned application or computer programme
 so as to result in infringement of Plaintiffs' copyrighted works. Vide
 order dated 13.04.2022, this Court had granted ex parte ad interim
 injunction in favour of the Plaintiffs' and the operative part of the
 order is as follows: (i.e. Defendant's partner app) or through any social media like
 youtube.com, facebook.com, Instagram, Telegram or through their
 Web Hosting Services including the cloud, etc. so as to result in acts
 of infringement of the Plaintiffs' copyright. 37. Defendants No.4, its directors, partners, proprietors,
 officers, affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 2 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 principal or agent acting for and, on its behalf, or anyone claiming
 through, by or under it, are directed to suspend the domain name
 registration of myfab11.com which infringe the Plaintiffs' exclusive
 rights. 38. Defendants No. 5 its directors, partners, proprietors,
 officers, affiliates, servants, employees, and all others in capacity of
 principal or agent acting for and, on their behalf, or anyone
 claiming through, by or under it are directed to remove Defendant
 No. 1's mobile App MYFAB11 from its listings." 2. Thereafter, an application was filed by Defendant No.1 seeking
 vacation of the ex parte injunction order in which notice was issued on
 25.04.2022 and upon a statement made on behalf of Defendant No.1
 that without prejudice to its rights and contentions it had removed the
 stock feature, directions issued to Defendants No.6, 4 and 5 in
 paragraphs 36 to 38 respectively, vide order dated 13.04.2022 were
 suspended till the next date. 3. I.A. 5896/2022 has been filed by the Plaintiffs seeking
 injunction against Defendants No.1, 2 and 3 (hereinafter referred to as
 'Defendants') predicated on their claim that Plaintiffs are developers
 and operators of the unique Fantasy Sports Mobile Application
 EXCHANGE22 which incorporates features of Fantasy Sports League
 and Stock Market. Plaintiff No.1 has been recognized as a start up by
 Start Up India, an initiative under the Government of India, which
 assists entrepreneur platforms to network, access free tools and
 resources and participate in programs and challenges. Plaintiff No. 2
 first came up with the unique idea of integrating the features of a
 Fantasy Sports League and Stock Market in the year 2010. Over the
 years, Plaintiffs No. 2 and 3, with hard work and toil, developed their
 idea into a tangible form and finally launched beta version of their Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 3 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 application in August, 2019 to test the mobile app on the website
 https://exchange22.com/. Plaintiff No. 1 Company was incorporated
 on 16.09.2019 and on 21.11.2019, EXCHANGE22 mobile App was
 officially launched. 4. As described in the plaint, fantasy sports are played online and
 the general way to play is that a user creates a virtual team of his own,
 depending upon his own analysis of the performance of the players,
 prior/during an ongoing sporting match and/or a sporting league. As
 and when the matches are played, users' team competes against the
 other users' team to find its place in the points ladder. Such games are
 played either for fun or prize or even money. These are games of skill
 where a user, with his analytical skill puts together a virtual team of
 real sports persons and success depends predominantly upon superior
 knowledge, training, attention, experience and adroitness of the
 player. User earns points based on how his own analysis is close to the
 actual, real life performance of the sports person. Fantasy Sports are
 prevalent in various sports albeit predominantly in football, baseball,
 cricket, etc. 5. Plaintiffs claim that they have formulated their own Fantasy
 Sport Mobile App which differs from the prevalent Fantasy Games
 Leagues. Plaintiffs' Fantasy Sports Game is registered under the Copyright Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act 1957') and
 being literary/dramatic work, the copyright work includes detailed
 working of the fantasy game including 'Object of the Game' and the
 'Components', which explain each and every step that a user
 experiences on its mobile application, such as the components of the
 'Home page', 'My Portfolio page', 'My Balance page', the process of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 4 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 verifying the account, a detailed point system, rules and regulations.
 Plaintiffs' work also contains steps to add/withdraw money to/from
 the 'Wallet' through multiple payment options. 6. It is averred in the plaint that Plaintiffs have devised a 'first of
 its kind' fantasy league gaming platform for cricket, football,
 basketball and kabaddi and what sets it apart from the other fantasy
 gaming Apps, where the users play like a real game but virtually, is
 that EXCHANGE22 incorporates the unique traits of 'share market
 trading' which allows the user to buy/sell the players in the same
 manner as one would buy/sell shares. User can buy any number of
 shares of a player upto a maximum of 22 players in one match going
 on anywhere across the world. The App is therefore an amalgamation
 of features of Fantasy Sports League and Stock Market Trading.
 Plaintiffs have developed a detailed 'concept note' and an attractive
 'Graphical User Interface' ('GUI') with unique program structure and
 placement of information, which is easy to access with investment of
 labour and money and have also applied for a patent registration for
 the invention. 7. It is further averred that an in-house team of designers and
 developers of Plaintiff No.1 has worked extensively to design the GUI
 of the Mobile App. Huge sums of money have been expended on
 product development, advertising and media costs in developing the
 brand name and EXCHANGE22 Mobile App. After its launch, for the
 period 2019-2022, the expenditure incurred on software development
 and maintenance has been close to Rs.96,00,912/- and with respect to
 advertising, promotions, etc. Plaintiffs have incurred an expense of
 Rs.7,79,56,657/-. Popularity of the app can be seen from the huge Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 5 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 revenues earned from platform fees paid by users, which are to the
 tune of Rs.138,112,327/- for the year 2021-2022. 8. Plaintiffs further claim that on the date of approaching the Court
 they had about 4,57,911 users with about 32,000 daily active users at
 any given point of time with an average engagement of 1.10 hours. In
 a short span of 3 years, Plaintiffs have carved a distinct niche for
 themselves in the world of fantasy gaming leagues and are entitled to
 protection against unlawful use by third parties including the
 Defendants. 9. It is pleaded by the Plaintiffs that Defendant No.1 has
 introduced a new update on its Fantasy Sports League Mobile App
 MYFAB11 in the form of a new feature titled 'STOCKS' and
 Defendants have copied not only the concept but also its working,
 features and execution of Plaintiffs' buy/sell interface and it was one
 day before launch of Indian Premier Leagues' first match on
 26.03.2022, that Defendants launched the new version. This,
 according to the Plaintiffs, amounts to exploiting their success,
 goodwill and reputation and infringement of the copyright. Plaintiffs
 thus allege infringement of the copyright in the GUI and concept note,
 in addition to data theft of their curated data and unfair competition. 10. On the contrary, in I.A. 6308/2022, seeking vacation of stay, it
 is averred that Defendant No.1 started as a proprietorship firm on
 31.03.2019 and later incorporated as a Private Limited Company on
 24.01.2020 by Defendants No.2 and 3. Defendant No.1 operates a
 mobile application under the trademark 'MYFAB11' as a real-money
 fantasy gaming business model. The application is a flagship product
 of Defendant No.1, where lakhs of participating users simultaneously Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 6 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 create virtual teams comprising of real world athletes engaged in
 participating in a sport event and compete against teams drafted by
 other participating users in a game contest. The application offers
 game formats not only for cricket but other sports. The modalities
 include allowing one to choose a team based on his preference and
 sports knowledge before the match starts. Based on the performance
 of the players during the actual match, the user accumulates points and
 gets ranked at the end of the game. If a user participates in a game
 with money, it goes to a common pool and user gets the winning
 amount based on the rank after deduction of the applicable service fee.
 Recently, on 25.03.2022, Defendant No.1, introduced the concept of
 trading which allows users to "kharid(buy)/bech(sell)" a particular
 player, in order to add a dimension to the application and provide a
 new medium of entertainment and revenue generation for the users.
 The application has become a house-hold name, which is reflective
 from the revenue generated as well as millions of users. It is pleaded
 that the "kharid/bech" pricing is based upon each player's stats and the
 formula used to calculate the same has no relation to any other
 platform and is premised on business strategy and vision of Defendant
 No.1, based on recent performances of the players. This is analogous
 to the credits of players that are used in daily fantasy format.
 Defendants' App MYFAB11 has accumulated 39,36,952 users and is
 downloaded by over 5 million users with average engagement time of
 each user, everyday, being 8 minutes. Defendant No.1 has earned total
 revenue of approximately Rs. 8 crore in Financial Year 2020-2021
 which increased to Rs.55 crores in Financial Year 2021-2022.
 Defendant No.1 has made a name for itself in the market and has Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 7 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 engaged Indian cricketers as brand ambassadors. The advertisements
 are broadcasted on various popular TV channels and huge sums of
 money have been spent on advertising on reputed OTT Platform -
 MXP Media India Ltd (MX Player) during IPL 2020. Approximately
 Rs.1.5 crores has been spent in affiliate marketing every month in
 addition to Rs.50 lakhs in digital advertising during ongoing IPL
 2022. Defendant No.1 also engages in philanthropic activities and has
 donated to various charities. 11. It is further stated in the application that Plaintiffs have
 concealed and suppressed from this Court that the offending
 "kharid/bech" feature in Defendants' application forms only a small
 part of the application whereas the primary feature is one which
 allows its users to select players and build a team like many other
 Fantasy League Applications, which are prior known and existing.
 Plaintiffs have also not disclosed that the domain name of the rival
 parties has nothing in common and yet sought suspension of the
 domain name www.myfab11.com. Most importantly, Plaintiffs have
 misguided the Court and not disclosed that the concept is not new and
 has existed in Fantasy Sporting market for decades. Plaintiffs are not
 the first to come up with the idea of combining Fantasy League with
 Stock Market (dynamic pricing of players) and there are many third
 parties who have created applications on similar concept,
 internationally and in India. Plaintiffs have failed to establish
 'originality' in the concept, which is a sine qua non for claiming
 infringement under the copyright regime. Concepts and ideas, even
 otherwise, cannot be protected under the Act 1957, as only
 'expression of ideas', is granted protection. Misrepresentation has Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 8 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 been made by the Plaintiffs by stating that there is similarity between
 the User Interface in the rival apps which ground is even otherwise
 unsustainable, as after receipt of the legal notice from the Plaintiffs
 and without prejudice to the rights and contentions as well as to avoid
 unnecessary conflict, Defendant No.1 has changed the UI to
 "kharid/bech" feature, which makes the two applications wholly
 dissimilar. Defendant No.1 urges that the ex parte injunction order is
 not only affecting the reputation of Defendant No.1 on account of bad
 publicity generated by the Plaintiffs on various platforms regarding
 the injunction order, but is also causing huge financial loss and
 therefore the injunction order be vacated. 12. Contentions raised by Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel
 on behalf of Defendant No.1 can be encapsulated as follows: Being in communication with the Defendants, Plaintiffs
 chose to file the suit on 12.04.2022 after waiting for 11 days
 expressing false urgency to claim exemption from advance
 service so that an ex parte order could be obtained by false
 averments and misrepresentation. As a consequence of the
 ex parte injunction, Defendant No.1 was unable to operate
 the trading feature of its application during the most
 lucrative period i.e. the IPL Season, resulting in financial
 loss in addition to damage to its reputation on account of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 9 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 wide publicity of the interim order by the Plaintiffs in the
 media and other social networking platforms. b) Plaintiffs are guilty of gross suppression and concealment of
 material facts and misrepresentation, which led to the
 passing of the ex parte injunction order and the order
 deserves to be vacated on this ground alone. In the plaint,
 particularly, paragraphs 7 and 11 thereof, Plaintiffs have
 falsely averred that they are the originators and proprietors
 of the concept and expression of their gaming platform
 which amalgamates the features of fantasy sports leagues
 and stock market trading and this unique feature sets them
 apart from all other existing fantasy gaming Apps. This
 submission of the Defendants finds reflection in paragraph
 23 of the order dated 13.04.2022. The averment is totally
 false and contradictory to the documents filed along with the
 plaint which contain a categorical admission that Plaintiffs
 are not the first to originate this idea and that the app is
 'India's first sports stock exchange'. Implicit in this
 statement is an admission that Plaintiffs' app is not unique. c) Plaintiffs have concealed the fact that they are not the first
 ones to come up with the idea of combining features of
 Fantasy Sports League with stock market as there are many
 third parties who have created applications on similar
 concepts, such as Sixer, World Cup Cricket Stock Market
 APK by Mastishq Technologies, GSX.com, CricStocks,
 PlayerSX, Prediction Strike, JockMKT, Trade Stars,
 TradeFan, etc. To show the commonality of features Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 10 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 between the third party Apps and the App of the Plaintiffs,
 documents have been filed and as an illustration one can see
 that the App Sixer allows users to "buy and sell fantasy
 stocks in cricket players. The better the player plays on the
 pitch, the price goes up and vice versa." "The prices are
 determined by player performance". The owner of the App
 claims to be "World's First Cricket Stock Market. Buy and
 Sell Stocks in Cricketers". Application also has 'Buy' and
 'Sell' Buttons and a page titled 'Your portfolio'. Stock price
 goes up when the player performs on the pitch. Documents
 such as the Wayback Machine dated 23.08.2018, WhoIS
 dated 08.05.2018, Facebook Page and Copyright Notice
 below the website indicate that the application was created
 prior to that of the Plaintiffs' Mobile App. Similar
 documents have been filed with respect to other applications
 aforementioned. d) Additionally, there are other websites which create white
 label Fantasy Sports applications that can be used directly by
 an entity seeking to build a mobile application with the said
 concept. 'Uber Like App' introduces the fantasy sports stock
 trading App that turns the sports from just a spine-tingling
 time pass into remunerative investments and sports fans can
 couple their knowledge in sports into stock trading in one
 shot. 'App Dupe' is an application where players and teams
 become stocks in a stock market and the stocks can be
 bought and sold and it allows the users to acquire the
 earnings based on their statistics. e) Article titled 9 Apps dated 17.06.2019, details the features
 required for creating fantasy sports mobile Apps like
 Dream11, which belies the stand of the Plaintiffs that their
 App EXCHANGE22 has unique features and is the original
 work of the Plaintiffs. In fact, even the point system
 followed by the Plaintiffs is not original and the same system
 was followed in Dream11 as far back as in September, 2018
 as per the Wayback Machine. In view of the similarity of
 features with several pre-existing Apps, copyright asserted
 by the Plaintiffs over the concept fails on account of lack of
 originality, which is a sine qua non under the copyright
 regime, to allege infringement. f) Faced with the obvious deception, Plaintiffs after reading the
 present application filed by Defendant No.1, have now
 shifted their stand to contend that there are differences in the
 features of their App and other Apps, which is an admission
 that the initial stand taken to obtain injunction was false.
 Significantly, the new position adopted by the Plaintiffs, is
 only by way of filing a List of Documents, without an
 amendment to the pleadings to co-relate them and should not
 be accepted, in law. Plaintiffs cannot be permitted to set up a
 case beyond the pleadings in the plaint to shift the goal post
 after their misrepresentation and dishonesty is discovered. It
 is settled law that the correctness of the injunction order can
 be tested only on the averments made at the time when the
 order was passed and not on a new or improvised stand,
 Plaintiffs must be called upon to discharge the onus of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 12 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 proving that they are the originators of the trading/stock
 feature in their Fantasy Sports App, in the absence of which,
 the stay must be vacated. This argument is without prejudice
 to the legal issue that no copyright exists in 'features' or
 'functionality' of a mobile application. g) Even otherwise, case of the Plaintiffs falls to the ground for
 the simple reason that Plaintiffs have misleadingly attempted
 to claim copyright in the 'concept of combining Fantasy
 League with Stock Market', predicated on copyright
 registration dated 11.02.2022. Plaintiffs allege copyright
 infringement of their 'concept note', registered as a
 literary/dramatic work, but there is no attempt in the plaint
 or any other document to demonstrate how the Defendants'
 App is a substantial reproduction of the registered literary
 work. The only comparison shown is between the
 screenshots of the User Interface of the Plaintiffs' App,
 which is not registered and the screenshots of the
 Defendants' App. It is a settled law that concepts and ideas
 cannot be protected under the Act 1957 and it is only the
 expression of the ideas that are granted protection. h) Plaintiffs are essentially seeking to distinguish their App by
 contending that: (i) Plaintiffs App allows users to buy/sell
 players only for the duration of the match; (ii) price of the
 players is governed by their performance; and (iii) the 'buy'
 and the 'sell' price are different. Each of these distinguishing
 features are entirely unoriginal and existed prior to
 Plaintiffs' App and moreover the distinctions were not even Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 13 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 pleaded in the plaint. Instead, what is pleaded is that
 Plaintiffs gave birth to the idea of the fantasy sport league
 with a stock feature, which is wholly incorrect and false.
 Assuming that these distinguishing features exist and are
 relevant, even then Plaintiffs have no case inasmuch as
 Defendants' App allows users to buy/sell players even
 during the match which feature is missing in the Plaintiffs'
 App and even on this touchstone, there can be no
 infringement. i) In order to make out a case for infringement of copyright,
 Plaintiffs must show violation of an exclusive right of
 copyright under provisions of Sections 14 and 51 of the Act
 1957. There is no pleading in the plaint claiming that the
 work of the Plaintiffs is an 'artistic work' within the
 meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act 1957. Plaintiffs are
 attempting to allege infringement in the functionality of the
 App, which is impermissible in law. Asserting a right of
 copyright in a concept note without showing that the said
 note constitutes 'literary work' cannot take the case of the
 Plaintiffs any further. j) In the oral submissions, Plaintiffs are now raising a new
 point that their mobile app is an 'adaptation of the work' in
 terms of Section 14(a)(vii) of the Act 1957 and therefore a
 mobile app can infringe a literary work, without
 substantially reproducing the text of the literary work. There
 is no such pleading claiming 'adaptation' in the plaint and in
 any event, the argument is misconceived as 'adaptation' in Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 14 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 relation to a literary work, as defined in Section 2(a)(ii) and (iii) would not include a mobile application. k) Plaintiffs' assertion of copyright infringement in the
 Graphical User Interface (GUI) of their app is wholly
 misconceived. The only comparison, as evident from the
 plaint, is between the GUI of the Plaintiffs' app and
 Defendant's app. GUI is not a 'work' under the Act 1957
 and therefore, in terms of Sections 13 and 16 of the Act
 1957, there can be no copyright in a GUI, per se. A GUI
 combines three elements viz. a computer programme which
 enables the functionality and appearance of the GUI; the
 artistic/graphic elements of the visual display of the GUI;
 and the text/literary works contained in the GUI, which are
 visible to the user. There can be copyright in a computer
 programme, literary work and/or artistic work contained in a
 GUI but there cannot be a copyright in the GUI itself. There
 is no pleading claiming copyright in any artistic work and
 therefore no copyright can be claimed in the graphic
 elements of the visual display of the GUI. Similarly, there is
 no claim in the pleading with respect to copyright in the
 'computer programme'. Plaintiffs have not identified in the
 plaint which text in the GUI is the original literary work for
 which they claim copyright, which averment is essential to
 test whether the identified literary work is 'original' as
 required under Section 13 of the Act 1957. l) Without prejudice to the aforesaid arguments, even
 otherwise on a bare comparison, the GUI of the Defendants' Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 15 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 App is substantially different. The visual displays of the two
 apps use different colour schemes, graphics, text and
 placement of the elements. While comparing the two
 interfaces, the idea/expression dichotomy and the Doctrine
 of Merger would apply and thus where an idea can only be
 expressed in a limited number of ways, there can be no
 copyright protection even in the expression of that idea as
 that would confer monopoly on the idea and would be
 against the settled law. m) Plaintiffs have misleadingly claimed proprietary rights over
 the system/formula which sets the price of any player on
 their mobile app and have alleged that Defendants have
 copied the same, without indicating even the basis on which
 the proprietary right is claimed. Firstly, proprietary rights
 over the system/formula of determining the price can only be
 claimed through patent registration and not under the Act
 1957. Plaintiffs have applied for a patent registration for
 trading a value of a player, which is pending. Secondly,
 Defendant No.1 uses its own algorithms based on publicly
 available data/statistics which would be common to the
 Plaintiffs. Since the Defendants' point system is 4 to 8 points
 higher than the Plaintiffs' system, there is a consequent
 variation in the buy/sell price of 6 to 8 points, which is
 purely coincidental. The fantasy points are set according to
 the recent performance of the players and have nothing to do
 with the price set by the Plaintiffs' application. Incidentally, Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 16 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 there is no allegation of theft with respect to the points
 assigned to the players. n) Reliance was placed on the following judgments:- Relying on the judgment of the Supreme Court in R.G. Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 17 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 Anand v. Delux Film and Others , (1978) 4 SCC 118, the
 Court held that there can be no copyright in an idea and
 rejected the copyright claim on the format. v) Plaintiffs placed heavy reliance on the decision in
 Broderbund Software, Inc. v. Unison World, 648 F.
 Supp. 1127 (N.D. Cal. 1986), a judgment by the US
 District Court but what was not placed before the Court is
 the relevant statutory framework within which the said
 decision was rendered, which differs from the Indian
 Copyright Act . Under the relevant US Statute, the subject
 matter of copyright is an inclusive category unlike the
 provisions of Sections 13 and 16 of the Indian statutory
 regime besides the fact that the former provides for
 copyright in 'audiovisual works', for which there is no
 copyright in the Indian Act. Significantly, even in the
 said judgment, the Court does not render a finding that
 copyright exists in GUI per se and a plain reading of the
 judgment makes it clear that the Court was concerned
 with the claim for 'audiovisual' copyright infringement
 and 'audiovisual displays of the computer program', none
 of which are the subject matter of the present case. Reliance placed on the decisions in Reckitt Benkiser
 India Ltd v. Wyeth Ltd , 2013 SCC OnLine Del 1096
 and Videocon Industries Limited v. Whirlpool of India
 Limited, 2012 SCC OnLine Bom 1171, is also misplaced
 as the said cases are under The Designs Act, 2000 .
 Unlike the Copyright Act, 1957, where copyright in a Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 18 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 defined 'work' arises through authorship, design rights
 under the Designs Act, 2000 are conferred by
 registration, the validity of which can be challenged in
 accordance with the provisions of the said Act. Copyright
 Act does not mandate registration for a copyright to
 subsist nor does registration confer any legal rights.
 Reliance on the decision of the House of Lords in
 Ladbroke (Football) Ltd. and William Hill (Football)
 Ltd., (1964) 1 All ER 465, is also erroneous as the
 question that arose in the said case was whether copyright
 subsists in 'coupons' as an 'original literary compilation'.
 Relying on Section 2 of the English Copyright Act,
 wherein a 'literary work' includes any written table or
 'compilation', the coupon was held to be a 'compilation'
 in which copyright could subsist as literary work. Court
 also agreed that there was substantial reproduction of the
 literary work in contrast to the facts of the present case
 where the only pleading by the Plaintiffs in respect of
 literary work is with regard to the registered concept note
 and there is nothing to even remotely indicate any
 reproduction of the said literary work by the Defendant. 13. Contentions raised on behalf of the Plaintiffs are as follows:- Finally, beta version of the application was launched in
 August, 2019 to test the mobile app on its website
 https://exchange22.com/. Upon getting a positive response
 from the public, Plaintiff No.1 Company was incorporated
 on 16.09.2019 and the mobile app was officially launched on
 21.11.2019. b) Plaintiffs' fantasy sports game is registered under the Act
 1957 while registration for the detailed work named
 EXCHANGE22 has been applied for as a literary/dramatic
 work. The concept note which is the registered copyright
 work details working of the fantasy game including 'Object
 of the Game' and the 'components' therein explaining every
 step that a user experiences on its mobile application such as
 the Home page, My Portfolio page, My Balance page, the
 process of verifying the account and a detailed Point System
 with Rules and Regulations. c) Contention of Defendant No.1 that Plaintiffs' app is not
 unique or original is misplaced. The unique features of the
 app are :- Reliance was placed on the judgments in Zee Entertainment
 Enterprises Ltd. v. Gajendra Singh & Ors. , 2007 SCC
 OnLine Bom 920 and Anil Gupta & Anr. v. Kunal
 Dasgupta and Ors., AIR 2002 Del 379. e) Section 2 of the Act 1957 starts with the phrase 'unless the
 context otherwise requires' and thus the definitions given
 thereunder including for the word 'adaptation' under Section
 2(a) are not exhaustive and therefore a restricted meaning
 ought not to be given. As a principle of statutory
 interpretation, the interpretation which furthers the object
 underlying the statute should be preferred by the Court. The
 Scheme of the Act 1957 is to protect the expression of
 original ideas by restricting their use in exact form, from
 adaptation or alteration. Reliance was placed on the
 following judgments:- ii) Kanwar Singh and Others v. Delhi Administration ,
 (1965) 1 SCR 7. iii) N.K. Jain & Others v. C.K. Shah & Others , (1991)
 2 SCC 495. f) Plaintiffs seek protection of their copyright in GUI of the
 mobile application. GUI is an 'artistic work' and capable of
 protection under the Act 1957. Government of India's stated
 position is that GUI is protectable as an artistic work which
 is evident from the website of Ministry of Electronics and
 Information Technology ('MEITY'), wherein it is stated that Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 22 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 the 'look and feel' of a GUI is protectable under the Act
 1957. Arguendo, even if GUI is taken as a component of a
 computer programme, it is an underlying artistic work which
 exists independently. Each frame, image, arrangement of
 icons, menus, etc. exists as an independent artistic work and
 even the structure, sequence and organization of Plaintiffs'
 App is protectable under the Act 1957. Reliance was placed
 on the following judgments :- iii) Maraekat Infotech Ltd. v. Mr. Naylesh V. Kothari
 and Others , 2016 SCC OnLine Bom 2369. g) Defendants have substantially copied the GUI, which is
 evident from the screenshots produced by the Plaintiffs and
 have deceitfully not produced screenshots of some pages
 selectively such as 'Portfolio Page', 'Buy Player Page', 'Sell
 Player Page', which on being viewed together makes it clear
 that Defendants have substantially copied the GUI of the
 Plaintiffs. h) Plaintiffs have expended huge sums of money on product
 development, advertising and media costs in developing
 their brand name and the mobile app EXCHANGE22. Expenditure incurred on software development and
 maintenance is Rs.96,00,912/- and that on advertising etc. is
 Rs.7,79,56,657/- for the years 2019-2022. Plaintiffs' app has
 4,57,911 users as in May, 2022 and new users keep getting Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 23 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 added everyday with about 32,000 daily active users at any
 given point of time with an average engagement of 1.10
 hours. In a short span of three years, Plaintiffs have carved
 out a distinctive niche for themselves in the world of fantasy
 gaming leagues. i) Defendants, on the other hand, a day before the launch of the
 IPL on 25.03.2022, launched an updated version of their
 Fantasy Sports League Mobile App MYFAB11 in the form
 of a new feature titled 'STOCKS' by not only copying the
 concept but also the working, features and execution of
 Plaintiffs' Buy/Sell interface. Defendants are also engaged in
 unauthorized and illegal act of accessing and
 misappropriating the information/data in Plaintiffs' mobile
 app to cause wrongful loss to the Plaintiffs by diverting the
 traffic, without their consent. In fact, Defendants brazenly
 copied the Buy/Sell price of each player for each match by
 adding a pre-determined random number. This is evident on
 comparing the Buy/Sell price of a player. Plaintiffs make
 their Buy/Sell portal available for use 24 hours before the
 actual match is scheduled. The modus operandi adopted by
 the Defendants is that they change the match statistics on
 their app a few hours after the Plaintiffs update their data
 pertaining to the players, according to a set standard pattern,
 which requires no application of mind, skill, expertise,
 expenditure or analysis and this pattern is repeated for every
 player. Defendants merely pick up the Plaintiffs' player
 index, add flat rates across the board and release the index Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 24 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 on their app. They have neither the manpower nor the skill to
 formulate and apply the algorithm as the Plaintiffs and thus
 they never release their own index before the Plaintiffs. The
 only response to the illegal activities in the application filed
 under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC is that the Buy/Sell price is
 merely co-incidental. It is unbelievable that the co-incidence
 occurs for all players and all matches. j) Stand of Defendant No.1 that the Plaintiffs have no
 copyright in the GUI of its mobile app is misconceived. GUI
 is an artistic work and Defendants have substantially copied
 Plaintiffs' GUI, which is evident from the screenshots
 produced by the Plaintiffs, comparing the two applications.
 As an illustration, the 'Point System' has nine parameters,
 all of which have been copied by the Defendants. As for the
 'Rules', Defendants have copied Rule 5(a), (b), (c), (e), (i), (k), (l) and (q) verbatim while Rule 5 (d), (h) and (m) have
 been copied with minor variations. Additionally, Defendants
 have copied the manner of depicting matches, time left,
 abbreviations of the names, including the icons at the
 bottom. Defendants' attempt to come as close as possible to
 Plaintiffs' application is to gain unfair advantage and is
 dishonesty. It is true that copyrights not dependent on
 registration, however, the moot point is that honesty/
 dishonesty is the fundamental principle that guides the law
 in the field of intellectual property rights, be it the
 trademarks law, where similarity/deceptive similarity is seen
 or the Designs Act , where the test is copy of the registered Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 25 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 design or passing off action wherein misrepresentation is
 frowned upon. Dishonesty is a species of unfair competition
 and in case the Court comes to a conclusion that the act of
 the Defendants is dishonest, an equitable order of injunction
 must follow. The present case is a classic case of dishonesty
 of the Defendants and thus copyrights of the Plaintiffs ought
 to be protected. k) It is vehemently denied that Plaintiffs have made any
 misrepresentation in the plaint or otherwise to obtain the ex
 parte injunction order. Defendants are misleading the Court
 by reading a single sentence or a stray averment in the
 Plaint, totally out of context, to create a wrong impression.
 Plaintiffs have clearly described their App as first of its kind
 and unique and this is in the context of its unique features,
 which do not exist in any other Mobile App i.e. having
 different Buy/Sell prices for the same player. Pleadings must
 be read, interpreted and construed as a whole and not
 dissected. Defendants have wrongly averred that there are
 various gaming platforms which existed prior to the
 Plaintiffs. Out of the nine platforms, referred to by the
 Defendants, applications like Sixer, JoinMKT, Trade Stars
 and Prediction Strike are subsequent to the launch of the
 Plaintiffs' App. Websites such as PlayerSX, TradeFan, Wall
 Street Sports, GSX.com did not have a mobile application
 and Cricstocks App although a .apk file cannot be accessed
 and therefore, it cannot be determined whether it followed a
 similar concept. These differences from the third party apps Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 26 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 have been detailed by the Plaintiffs in a tabular form for a
 comparison and are as follows:- duration of the match. At the end
 of the match the player's
 portfolio is empty again. In the said app, there is only one
 value of the player. Whereas the
 Plaintiffs' app has different prices
 for Buy and Sell. later the price of the player is 10.09.2020 on iOS,
 guided by the market forces of subsequent to the
 demand and supply. Whereas Plaintiff. l) Unauthorized misappropriation of Plaintiffs' data amounts to
 an act of unfair competition, which is the overarching
 concept flowing through the entire gamut of intellectual
 property rights, including copyright. Paris Convention, to Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 29 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 which India is a signatory, offers definition of unfair
 competition as does the Geographical Indications of Goods
 Act, 1999 . Defendants cannot be permitted to make
 unauthorized use of Plaintiffs' efforts and use it as a 'spring
 board' to gain an unfair competitive advantage over the
 Plaintiffs. m) Plaintiffs had made out a prima facie case for grant of ex
 parte ad-interim injunction and after hearing them and
 examining the documents, ex parte injunction was rightly
 granted by the Court. Balance of convenience lies in favour
 of the Plaintiffs as the stock feature on the Plaintiffs' app
 existed prior to Defendants' stock feature, which the latter
 launched only on 25.03.2022. Defendant No. 1 has
 attempted to create a false sense of urgency on account of
 the IPL matches without apprising the Court that their
 application offers the stock and the regular fantasy sports
 features for every professional cricket match played in a
 calendar year with few exceptions and it is Defendant No.
 1's own admission that stock feature is a small part of its
 application, which is mainly concerned with fantasy sport
 element. For all the aforestated reasons, the ex parte
 injunction order deserves to be confirmed and the
 application seeking vacation of stay deserves to be
 dismissed. 14. I have heard learned Senior Counsels for the parties and
 examined their rival contentions. 15. Being developers and operators of Fantasy Sports League
 Mobile App EXCHANGE22, Plaintiffs approached this Court seeking
 injunction against Defendants from infringing their copyrighted work,
 amongst other reliefs. The claim to fame by the Plaintiffs is that they
 have devised a first of its kind fantasy league gaming platform for
 cricket, football, basketball and kabaddi, where the user plays the
 game as a real game with additional unique trait of share market
 trading, which allows the user to buy/sell the players like shares in the
 market. 16. Before proceeding further, one would need an insight into the
 concept of 'Fantasy Sports'. From a collective reading of articles in
 the public domain, judicial precedents and the pleadings in the plaint,
 it emerges that Fantasy Sports are digital sports engagement platforms
 based on real life sports matches i.e. online gaming on the internet
 which allows the users or fans of the sport concerned to build virtual
 teams based on real players participating in the upcoming matches.
 The events/leagues are centred around real world sporting events
 based on statistical data of the performance of the sports persons. This
 allows the users to emulate the role of a coach or a manager of a team
 so as to be able to change the player by adding or dropping as per
 choice. Participation in the fantasy sports games entails payment of an
 entry fee, after which the user enters the arena of the online event and
 earns points and eventually may win or lose. The idea of fantasy
 games albeit originated in India in the mid-1990s, in USA the idea
 goes back to 1960s. 17. As this matter also concerns the GUI, a little backdrop to this
 concept is also imperative. GUI is a digital interface in which a user Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 31 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 interacts with graphical components such as icons, buttons and menus.
 GUI is a visual component different from the underlying codes i.e.
 source code and object code and is a feature in various devices such as
 computers, smart phones etc. In other words, 'user interface' refers to
 the underlying non-graphic code of a software programme, while the
 term 'GUI' or 'graphical user interface' refers to the visual elements,
 i.e., the 'look' of the program. Upon interacting with a GUI i.e. the
 graphics on the screen, the GUI instantly communicates through the
 software's underlying code, which then performs the desired function
 and from the time the user interacts and executes a command to the
 moment the computer performs the function, there are multiple layers
 of interactions taking place within the software. 18. Broadly understood, case of the Plaintiffs, as argued, is that
 they are developers and operators of a unique Mobile Application
 EXCHANGE22, which incorporates features of a Fantasy Sports
 League and stock market and it is the share market trading unique trait
 which sets the gaming application apart from the prevalent fantasy
 gaming applications and is therefore first of its kind Fantasy League
 Gaming Platform for cricket, football, etc. Plaintiff No.2 developed a
 detailed 'concept note' which includes features for working of the
 fantasy games such as 'object of the game', 'components', 'home
 page', 'my portfolio page' and the concept note is registered under the
 Act 1957 being a Literary/Dramatic work. Plaintiffs also claim
 protection in the GUI of their application as an 'artistic work' besides
 theft of their curated data and allege unfair competition by the
 Defendants. In the alternative, it is argued that even if GUI is taken to
 be a component of a computer programme, it is an underlying artistic Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 32 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 work, which exists independently as each frame, image, arrangement
 of icons, menus, etc. are independent artistic works. 19. Defendants, on the other hand, have sought vacation of the
 interim injunction order on multifarious grounds by arguing that there
 is gross suppression of material facts and misrepresentation in the
 plaint as Plaintiffs have predicated their case on being originators of a
 unique idea of trading of sports players which sets them apart, which
 is contrary to their own admission that they are 'India's first sports
 stock exchange' while documents filed by Defendants show that
 trading sports players as part of fantasy gaming existed in public
 domain long before Plaintiffs' application. It is also urged that after
 the stand of the Defendants came on record, Plaintiffs have repeatedly
 tried to shift their stands and are now attempting to bring out alleged
 differences in the features of their app qua Defendants' mobile app.
 Plaintiffs are also setting up a new case of infringement with respect
 to 'functionality' of Defendants' app on the basis of functionality in
 the registered literary work, which is impermissible in law, as there is
 no copyright in an idea. There are no pleadings in the plaint as to how
 Defendants' app is a substantial reproduction of the registered literary
 work i.e. concept note and the only comparison that is repeatedly
 drawn is by taking screenshots of the User Interfaces of the apps of the
 rival parties. It was also emphasised that GUI is not 'work' under the
 Act 1957 and therefore, in terms of Sections 13 and 16 of the Act
 1957, there can be no copyright in a GUI per se. As a desperate
 attempt, a case was also set up during arguments that Plaintiffs'
 mobile app is an 'adaptation of the work' in terms of Section
 14(a)(vii) of the Act 1957, which is wholly outside the pleadings and Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 33 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 in any event, is an argument beyond the provisions of the Act 1957,
 since adaptation in relation to literary work as defined in Section
 2(a)(ii) and (iii) of the Act 1957 shows that a mobile app is not
 envisaged as an adaptation of literary work. 20. In order to appreciate the arguments of the parties, it would be
 first necessary to discuss the provisions of the Act 1957 and the
 judicial precedents on the subject. Relevant provisions are as follows:- (o) "literary work" includes computer programmes, tables and
 compilations including computer [databases];" 13. Works in which copyright subsists.--(1) Subject to the
 provisions of this section and the other provisions of this Act,
 copyright shall subsist throughout India in the following classes of
 works, that is to say,-- (a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works; (b) cinematograph films; and (c) [sound recording]." 14. Meaning of copyright.--For the purposes of this Act,
 "copyright" means the exclusive right subject to the provisions of
 this Act, to do or authorise the doing of any of the following acts in
 respect of a work or any substantial part thereof, namely: -- (a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being
 a computer programme,-- (i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the
 storing of it in any medium by electronic means; (ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies
 already in circulation; (iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the
 public; (iv) to make any cinematograph film or sound recording in
 respect of the work; (v) to make any translation of the work; (vi) to make any adaptation of the work; (vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the
 work, any of the acts specified in relation to the work in sub-
 clauses (i) to (vi); (b) in the case of a computer programme,- (i) to do any of the acts specified in clause (a); (ii) to sell or give on commercial rental or offer for sale or
 for commercial rental any copy of the computer programme: 21. The Supreme Court in Eastern Book Company and Others v.
 D.B. Modak and Another , (2008) 1 SCC 1, analysing the aforesaid
 provisions observed that subject to Section 13 and other provisions of
 the Act 1957, there shall be a copyright throughout India in original
 literary work, dramatic, musical and artistic work, cinematographic
 films and sound recordings and for copyright protection, all literary
 works have to be original. Broadly speaking, there would be two
 classes of literary works: (a) primary i.e. works not based on existing
 subject matter; and (b) secondary or derivative works i.e. works based
 on existing subject matter. 'Literary work' also includes computer
 programmes including computer databases. The word 'original' was
 also subject matter of interpretation by the Supreme Court and it was
 observed that the expression 'original' does not mean that the work
 must be expression of original or inventive thought since Copyright
 Act is not concerned with originality of ideas but is concerned with
 expression of thought and in case of literary work with the expression
 of thought in print or writing. The Act 1957 envisages that while the
 work may not be novel but must not be copied from another work i.e.
 it should originate from the author. Relevant paragraphs are as
 follows:- 22. Work is defined in Section 2(y) which would be a literary,
 dramatic, musical or artistic work; a cinematograph film; and a
 sound recording. Under Section 2(o) , literary work would include
 computer programs, tables and compilations including computer
 databases. xxx xxx xxx 32. The word "original" does not mean that the work must be the
 expression of original or inventive thought. The Copyright Acts are
 not concerned with the originality of ideas, but with the expression
 of thought, and in the case of literary work, with the expression of
 thought in print or writing. The originality which is required relates
 to the expression of the thought. But the Act does not require that the
 expression must be in an original or novel form, but that the work
 must not be copied from another work--that it should originate from
 the author; and as regards compilation, originality is a matter of
 degree depending on the amount of skill, judgment or labour that
 has been involved in making the compilation. The words "literary
 work" cover work which is expressed in print or writing irrespective
 of the question whether the quality or style is high. The
 commonplace matter put together or arranged without the exercise
 of more than negligible work, labour and skill in making the
 selection will not be entitled to copyright. The word "original" does
 not demand original or inventive thought, but only that the work
 should not be copied but should originate from the author. In
 deciding, therefore, whether a work in the nature of a compilation is
 original, it is wrong to consider individual parts of it apart from the
 whole. For many compilations have nothing original in their parts,
 yet the sum total of the compilation may be original. In such cases
 the courts have looked to see whether the compilation of the
 unoriginal material called for work or skill or expense. If it did, it is Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 37 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 entitled to be considered original and to be protected against those
 who wish to steal the fruits of the work or skill or expense by
 copying it without taking the trouble to compile it themselves. In
 each case, it is a question of degree whether the labour or skill or
 ingenuity or expense involved in the compilation is sufficient to
 warrant a claim to originality in a compilation." 22. The Supreme Court, relying on the most cited judgment in
 University of London Press Limited v. University Tutorial Press
 Limited, [1916] 2 Ch 601, in the context of 'originality' held as
 follows:- 23. It is trite that there can be no copyright and hence no exclusivity
 or monopoly in an idea and only an expression of an idea, which is
 original, can be protected. This aspect of discussion cannot be
 complete without relying on the most cited judgment on the idea-
 expression dichotomy in the case of R.G. Anand (supra), relevant
 paragraphs of which are as follows:- This authority lays down in unmistakable terms the cases where
 an infringement of the copyright would take place and as
 pointed out that before the charge of plagiarism is levelled
 against the defendant it must be shown that the defendant has
 taken a substantial portion of the matter from the original and
 have made unfair use of the protective work. The two works
 involved must be considered and tested not hypercritically but
 with meticulous scrutiny." xxx xxx xxx 45. Thus, the position appears to be that an idea, principle,
 theme, or subject-matter or historical or legendary facts being
 common property cannot be the subject-matter of copyright of a
 particular person. It is always open to any person to choose an idea Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 39 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 as a subject-matter and develop it in his own manner and give
 expression to the idea by treating it differently from others. Where
 two writers write on the same subject similarities are bound to occur
 because the central idea of both are the same but the similarities or
 coincidences by themselves cannot lead to an irresistible inference of
 plagiarism or piracy. Take for instance the great poet and dramatist
 Shakespeare most of whose plays are based on Greek-Roman and
 British mythology or legendary stories like Merchant of Venice,
 Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Julius Ceasar etc. But the treatment of
 the subject by Shakespeare in each of his dramas is so fresh, so
 different, so full of poetic exuberance elegance and erudition and so
 novel in character as a result of which the end product becomes an
 original in itself. In fact, the power and passion of his expression, the
 uniqueness, eloquence and excellence of his style and pathos and
 bathos of the dramas become peculiar to Shakespeare and leaves
 precious little of the original theme adopted by him. It will thus be
 preposterous to level a charge of plagiarism against the great
 playwright. In fact, throughout his original thinking, ability and
 incessant labour Shakespeare has converted an old idea into a new
 one, so that each of his dramas constitute a masterpiece of English
 literature. It has been rightly said that "every drama of Shakespeare
 is an extended metaphor". Thus, the fundamental fact which has to
 be determined where a charge of violation of the copyright is made
 by the plaintiff against the defendant is to determine whether or not
 the defendant not only adopted the idea of the copyrighted work but
 has also adopted the manner, arrangement, situation to situation,
 scene to scene with minor changes or super additions or
 embellishment here and there. Indeed, if on a perusal of the
 copyrighted work the defendant's work appears to be a transparent
 rephrasing or a copy of a substantial and material part of the
 original, the charge of plagiarism must stand proved. Care however
 must be taken to see whether the defendant has merely disguised
 piracy or has actually reproduced the original in different form,
 different tone, different tenor so as to infuse a new life into the idea
 of the copyrighted work adapted by him. In the latter case there is no
 violation of the copyright. 46. Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the
 various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above,
 the following propositions emerge: (Emphasis Supplied)
 24 Plainly there can be no copyright in an idea which is
 merely in the head, which has not been expressed in
 copyrightable form, as a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic
 work, but the distinction between ideas and expression cannot
 mean anything so trivial as that. On the other hand, every
 element in the expression of an artistic work (unless it got there
 by accident or compulsion) is the expression of an idea on the
 part of the author. It represents her choice to paint stripes
 rather than polka dots, flowers rather than tadpoles, use one Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 46 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 colour and brush technique rather than another, and so on. The
 expression of these ideas is protected, both as a cumulative
 whole and also to the extent to which they form a "substantial
 part" of the work. Although the term "substantial part" might
 suggest a quantitative test, or at least the ability to identify
 some discrete part which, on quantitative or qualitative
 grounds, can be regarded as substantial, it is clear upon the
 authorities that neither is the correct test. Ladbroke (Football)
 Ltd v. William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 W.L.R. 273
 establishes that substantiality depends upon quality rather than
 quantity (Lord Reid at 276, Lord Evershed at 283, Lord Hodson
 at 288, Lord Pearce at 293), and there are numerous authorities
 which show that the "part" which is regarded as substantial can
 be a feature or combination of features of the work, abstracted
 from it rather than forming a discrete part. That is what the
 judge found to have been copied in this case. Or to take another
 example, the original elements in the plot of a play or novel
 may be a substantial part, so that copyright may be infringed
 by a work which does not reproduce a single sentence of the
 original. If one asks what is being protected in such a case, it
 is difficult to give any answer except that it is an idea
 expressed in the copyright work. (Emphasis Supplied)
 25 My Lords, if one examines the cases in which the
 distinction between ideas and the expression of ideas has been
 given effect, I think it will be found that they support two quite
 distinct propositions. The first is that a copyright work may
 express certain ideas which are not protected because they
 have no connection with the literary, dramatic, musical or
 artistic nature of the work. It is on this ground that, for
 example, a literary work which describes a system or invention
 does not entitle the author to claim protection for his system or
 invention as such. The same is true of an inventive concept
 expressed in an artistic work. However striking or original it
 may be, others are (in the absence of patent protection) free to
 express it in works of their own : see Kleeneze Ltd v. D.R.G.
 (U.K .) Ltd [1984] F.S.R. 399. The other proposition is
 that certain ideas expressed by a copyright work may not be
 protected because, although they are ideas of a literary,
 dramatic or artistic nature, they are not original, or so
 commonplace as not to form a substantial part of the
 work. Kenrick & Co. v. Lawrence & Co. (1890) 25 Q.B.D. 99, is
 a well-known example. It is on this ground that the mere notion
 of combining stripes and flowers would not have amounted to a
 substantial part of the plaintiff's work. At that level of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 47 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 abstraction, the idea, though expressed in the design, would not
 have represented sufficient of the author's skill and labour as to
 attract copyright protection." (Emphasis Supplied) 99. Upon the meaningful reading of Lord Hoffman's speech in
 the case of Designers Guild (supra), I find para 25 of the
 judgment summarizes the idea expressions problem faced and
 recognized by the courts in England with clarity. Thus, it would
 not be out of place to state there may arise sometimes the cases
 or instances where within a work, what is appears to be an
 expression because of its presence in the work as a whole is
 merely an idea and the protectable area which is the manner of
 expression lies somewhere else. The courts have attempted to
 distinguish such expressions of idea which are unrelated to
 copyright which in the opinion of the court are falling within the
 broader ambit of idea itself from that of the expression of ideas
 where originality resides in copyright sense. The former are not
 protected but the later do. This is emerging from the Speech of
 Lord Hoffman in Designers Guild (supra). 100. The reading of the Lord Hoffman's speech in para 25 also
 makes it clear that this kind of problem more than often arises in
 cases where literary work describes a system or invention as
 such which supports my conclusions above as it touches aspect
 between the patents and copyright and sometimes raises the
 concern relating to discovery of fact vis a vis creation of fact
 and challenges the originality quotient of the work." 25. Section 51 of the Act 1957 enumerates acts, which are deemed
 to constitute infringement of a copyright, while exceptions are
 provided in Section 52 . From the aforesaid judgments, it emerges that
 pre-requisite to copyright infringement is 'copying of the copyrighted
 work' but this is not a general or an abstract statement of law as not all
 copying is infringement. Division Bench of this Court in India TV
 Independent News Service Pvt. Ltd. and Others v. Yashraj Films Pvt.
 Ltd. , 2012 SCC OnLine Del 4298, reiterated the position of law that
 in order to constitute infringement, there must be 'substantial' Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 48 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 similarity between the two works and also reaffirmed that there are
 two types of substantial similarities. Relevant paragraph is as follows:- 26. This Court in MRF Limited v. Metro Tyres Limited , 2019 SCC
 OnLine Del 8973 and the Calcutta High Court in Shree Venkatesh
 Films Pvt. Ltd. v. Vipul Amrutlal Shah & Ors. , 2009 SCC OnLine
 Cal 2113, have emphasized on the principle of substantial similarity in
 the competing works as a pre-requisite to infringement of copyright.
 In fact, the 'substantiality test' is found in the opening words of Section 14 itself which reads as follows:- (Emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 49 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 27. The question that now posits an answer is whether Plaintiffs
 have made out a prima facie case of infringement of copyright in the
 concept note and GUI by the Defendants and the answer to this
 question would determine whether the interim injunction order
 deserves to be confirmed or vacated. The pleadings in the plaint and
 the application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC with respect
 to copyright in the 'concept note' are that Plaintiffs' registered
 copyright work comprises of detailed working of the fantasy game
 including object of the game and the components therein explaining
 each and every step that the user experiences on its mobile application
 such as 'Home page', 'My Portfolio page', 'My Balance page' etc.,
 the process of verifying the account, detailed point system, rules and
 regulations as also steps to add/withdraw money to/from the 'Wallet'
 through multiple payment options. Uniqueness in the application is
 claimed on account of several features such as separate price for Buy
 and Sell for each player; trading of players like stock; player can be
 bought and sold multiple times for a match akin to shares; prices are
 pre-determined; and users play on a match-to-match basis. In a
 nutshell, the claim is that the stock/trading feature is the 'original
 feature' which is substantially copied by the Defendants, resulting in
 infringement of the copyright. Added to this are the pleadings with
 respect to GUI stating that Plaintiffs have developed an attractive GUI
 with unique programme structure with the help of an in-house team of
 designers and developers with immense effort and investment of huge
 sums of money and Defendants have brazenly copied the User
 Interface. Screenshots of GUIs of respective parties have been
 extracted in the body of the plaint in a tabular form for the purpose of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 50 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 comparison. It is essentially on these two scores i.e. originality of the
 stock feature and substantial copy of the GUI, the ex parte ad interim
 injunction was granted in favour of the Plaintiffs. It is here that the
 Defendants join issue both on merit and gross suppression and
 misrepresentation of facts. 28. The entire tone and tenor of the pleadings put forth by the
 Plaintiffs and the arguments canvassed, point to a claim that the
 trading/stock feature in their gaming application is original and first of
 its kind which, in my prima facie view, is factually incorrect, as
 pointed out on behalf of the Defendants. Before proceeding further, I
 may refer to the averments in the plaint to this effect and paragraphs 7
 and 11 of the plaint are as follows:- 29. Be it noted that while a claim is laid in the plaint that Plaintiff
 No.2 first came up with a unique idea of integrating features of
 Fantasy Sports League and the stock market in the year 2010,
 however, no material has been placed on record to substantiate the
 plea, despite labouring on filing written submissions, additional
 documents repeatedly. To counter the arguments on originality
 asserted by the Plaintiffs, Defendants have placed on record
 documents to show that several gaming applications such as
 SIXER, World Cup Cricket Stock Market APK, PlayerSX,
 JockMKT, TradeFan, Trade Stars, CricStocks, Prediction Strike and
 TheGSX.com, were launched prior to Plaintiffs' app, incorporating the
 stock/trading feature. In the context of SIXER app, the documents
 include screenshots of Wayback Machine dated 23.08.2018, WhoIs
 dated 08.05.2018, Facebook page claiming SIXER to be India's first
 Fantasy Cricket Stocks Game created in 2017 and a copyright notice
 below the website reflecting 'Copyright 2017-2021 SIXER GAME'.
 Screenshots placed on record to support this plea are extracted
 hereunder for ready reference:- 30. Similar documents in the nature of website details, Facebook
 posts, WhoIS and Wayback Machine screenshots have been filed by
 the Defendants with respect to some of the other apps to demonstrate
 that these apps were created and existed prior to that of the Plaintiffs.
 Wayback Machine is a tool offered by the website "Internet Archive" 31. Originality though not novelty, is the underlying feature for
 claiming injunction predicated on copyright infringement and in view
 of the documents referred above , at least at this stage, the claim of
 originality asserted by the Plaintiffs is certainly dented. Therefore, this
 Court is unable to hold in favour of the Plaintiffs that their gaming
 application is an original expression of an idea, so as to grant Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 57 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 proprietary rights or monopoly and injunct the Defendants from using
 the impugned application. 32. Defendants are also prima facie correct in their argument that
 Plaintiffs misrepresented that their gaming application is the first of its
 kind with a unique stock market feature. Reading of the order dated
 13.04.2022 shows that one of the factors which weighed with the
 Court was that Plaintiffs had devised a first of its kind Fantasy League
 gaming platform for Cricket etc. with unique trades of share market as
 is reflected in paragraph 23 of the order. It is a settled law that a party
 which approaches the Court for a discretionary and equitable relief
 must come to the Court with clean hands and truthfully disclose all
 material facts having a bearing on the merits of the case. The present
 application for vacation of injunction order has been filed by the
 Defendants under Order XXXIX Rule 4 CPC . First proviso to Order
 XXXIX Rule 4 CPC stipulates that if in an application for temporary
 injunction or in an affidavit supporting such application a party has
 knowingly made a false or misleading statement in relation to a
 material particular and the injunction was granted without giving
 notice to the opposite party, the Court shall vacate the injunction
 unless it considers it not necessary to do so in the interest of justice.
 Injunction is an equitable remedy and one who seeks equity must act
 in a fair and equitable manner. An inequitable conduct is breach of
 Applicant's duty of candor and good faith. Plaintiffs have made
 incorrect averments in the plaint and have also annexed documents to
 support them and are thus not entitled to an equitable relief of
 injunction. 33. It is held by this Court in Wheels India v. S. Nirmal Singh &
 Anr. , 2009 SCC OnLine Del 3251, that injunction orders obtained by
 suppression of material facts are liable to be vacated on the ground of
 suppression alone. I may refer to paragraph 18 of the judgment as
 follows:- 34. In KENT RO System Limited and Another v. Gattubhai and
 Others , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 791, again this Court held as follows:- 35. It is thus clear that a party that approaches the Court for an
 equitable relief must do so with clean hands and disclose all material
 facts, which may have a significant bearing on the merits and in my
 view, this onus is heavier at this stage when the opposite party is yet to
 appear and ex parte relief is sought. The existence of prior apps with
 similar stock market feature enabling an option to buy/sell players,
 prima facie belies the position adopted by the Plaintiffs of being 'first
 of its kind Fantasy League Gaming platform for cricket, football,
 basketball and Kabaddi'. On this ground alone, the ex parte injunction
 deserves to be vacated in favour of the Defendants and against the
 Plaintiffs. 36. Interestingly, faced with the predicament that the Defendants
 have been able to bring forth documents to show existence of prior
 similar apps, a desperate attempt was made to shift the goal post from
 claiming to be original to contending that there were several
 differences between the applications referred to by the Defendants. 37. There can be no dispute with the legal proposition that
 copyright is not concerned with novelty of ideas as that is the subject
 matter of the Patents Act, 1970 , but what the copyright law concerns
 is the expression of thought in a concrete form i.e. ideas, themes, etc.
 being common property cannot be subject matter of copyright but they
 can be developed and given expression by treating them differently to
 claim copyright as held in R.G. Anand (supra). Relying on the said Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 60 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 judgment , this Court in Bright Lifecare Pvt. Ltd. v. Vini Cosmetics
 Pvt. Ltd. and Another , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1953, reiterated that
 there can be no exclusivity in an idea and only expression can be
 protected. This position is aptly highlighted by the Supreme Court
 taking the example of the plays authored by the great poet and
 dramatist Shakespeare and I may only refer to the following passage
 in this context:- 38. Therefore, the onus was on the Plaintiffs to show that despite
 the existence of earlier apps containing the stock market/trading
 feature, the gaming mobile app of the Plaintiffs in question was
 developed in a manner that the expression of the idea made it distinct
 from the rest. The question is whether the Plaintiffs only adopted the
 pre-existing idea or reproduced the idea in a different form, tone or
 tenor so as to give it a new expression and infuse new life into the
 idea. In this backdrop, if the mobile app of the Plaintiffs is examined,
 Plaintiffs have failed to discharge the onus. The comparison of the
 features of the prior existing third party apps with Plaintiffs' mobile
 app, fortifies the stand of the Defendants that the distinguishing
 features are not enough for the Plaintiffs to cross the threshold of idea-
 expression dichotomy to claim originality and consequently protection
 in the gaming app and copyright infringement. For the ease of
 reference, the comparative features are as follows:- Whereas the Plaintiffs' app has
 different prices for Buy and 3. Price of the stock price goes
 Sell. up when the player performs on
 the pitch. 3. Defendants' reliance on the
 screenshot from Wayback 4. The Application also has
 Machine to show that the app 'Buy' and 'Sell' Buttons, and a
 was available in 2018 is wrong. pg titled 'Your portfolio' at least
 As on 21.11.2019 the website since 23 August 2018.
 www.sixergame.com showed
 that the app is 'Coming Soon'. Join MKT In the said app, all the players The Application "allows users to
 are initially valued at $1 and buy and sell shares of athletes in
 later the price of the player is real time." guided by the market forces of
 demand and supply. Whereas
 Plaintiffs' Buy and Sell value
 of the players are
 predetermined by the Plaintiffs'
 in-house team. Trade Stars 1. In the said app, the user can 1. The Application "is a Fantasy
 hold the stock for a player for Sports Game where users can
 more than one match. Whereas trade digital assets that represent
 the Plaintiffs' app allows the athletes' real life performances".
 players to buy/sell stocks only
 for the duration of the match. 2. Daily fantasy contests are
 At the end of the match the hosted by the Application.
 player's portfolio is empty
 again. 2. In the said app, there is only
 one value of the player. Whereas the Plaintiffs' app has
 different prices for Buy and
 Sell. Prediction In the said app, all the players 1. "Buy and own "shares" of your
 Strike are initially valued by the favourite players just like you
 developer and thereafter price would a real stock". The Value of
 of the player is guided by the players depends on their
 market forces of demand and performance well as supply and
 supply. Whereas the Plaintiffs' demand. Buy and Sell value of the
 players are predetermined by 2. Screenshot of app showing
 the Plaintiffs' in-house team on 'number of shares', 'total
 a match to match basis. holdings', 'Portfolio' and
 'Account'. Player SX In the said website, all the 1. The website states that the
 players are initially valued by users can "buy, sell or trade your
 the developer and thereafter favourite athletes just like stocks
 price of the player is guided by on a stock market. Season-long, Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 63 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 the market forces of demand daily and other playing option
 and supply. Whereas the with crossport trading available. in-house team on a match to 2. Share prices are directly
 match basis. related to a player's actual
 scoring performance. TradeFan The users have to build a team The website states that the users
 in this website and the users can participate in daily
 can join a tournament anytime, tournaments and trade their
 even after the start of the same. players. One of the reviews on
 Whereas a user does not have the website is: "it's the ultimate
 to build a team in the Plaintiffs' mix between two of my
 app and there is no concept of a favourites thing, Fantasy Sports
 tournament in the Plaintiffs' & Wall Street." app. World Cup In the said app, the user can 1. New feature - CricStocks
 Cricket Stock hold the stock for a player for introduced in the game. Now you
 Market more than one match. Whereas can buy and sale stocks of your
 (CricStocks) the Plaintiffs' app allows the favourite Cricket stars only on
 players to buy/sell stocks only https://apps.facebook.com/ttwent
 for the duration of the match. ypredict" TheGSX.com In the said website, the user can The Application "is an online
 hold the stock for a player a sports stock exchange, which
 whole season of IPL. Whereas allows you to buy and sell shares
 the Plaintiffs' app allows the of a particular
 players to buy/sell stocks only player, just like the real stock
 for the duration of the match. market. Cricketers have a certain
 At the end of the match the number of shares assigned to
 player's portfolio is empty them which can be brought or
 again. sold by the trader.... Buy good
 players and sell the bad ones" 39. Insofar as alleged infringement of 'concept note' is concerned,
 pleadings in the plaint reflect that the stand of the Plaintiffs is limited
 to stating that 'Defendants have copied concept, workings, features
 and execution of Plaintiffs' buy/sell interface' and '.... the concept, Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 64 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 expression and the user interface of the new update is a substantial
 reproduction of the Plaintiffs' registered copyright'. In fact, the only
 comparison sought to be made is between the screenshots of the user
 interface of the two applications. Insofar as the 'concept note' is
 concerned, there are divergent views of this Court. In Anil Gupta
 (supra), this Court has held that a concept can be subject matter of
 copyright where the issue was with regard to the concept of a serial
 'Swayamvar' on television, however, in a later judgment in Sanjay
 Kuamr (supra), this Court held that there can be no copyright in a
 concept under the Act 1957, unless the concept is transformed into
 literary or dramatic or artistic work, etc. Be that as it may, taking at
 the highest that Plaintiffs have a copyright in the concept note, the
 question would be whether Plaintiffs have succeeded in prima facie
 showing that the concept is an original work in view of Section 13(1) of the Act 1957 and prima facie, the answer is in the negative. As
 mentioned above, Defendants have demonstrated the existence of
 gaming applications both in India and abroad with the trading/stock
 feature prior to the launch of EXCHANGE22 and therefore, no
 originality can be claimed in the concept note and consequently, there
 can be no monopoly and infringement of the copyright therein.
 Pertinently, in the context of the concept note, it is not even pleaded
 how the concept note had been copied, much less substantially copied
 and thus, no further deliberation is required at this stage on this issue. 40. Coming to the issue of alleged infringement of the copyright in
 GUI, first and foremost, Plaintiffs have only compared the GUIs of the
 two rival applications by taking respective screenshots of the various
 features incorporated therein. The skeletal pleadings on this aspect do Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 65 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 not highlight in which element of the GUI Plaintiffs claim copyright
 and is thus infringed. A Graphical User Interface combines three
 elements, a computer programme which enables functionality and
 appearance of the GUI, the artistic/graphic elements of the visual
 display and the text/literary works in the GUI, which are visible to the
 user. There is no pleading in the plaint claiming copyright in 'artistic
 work' and therefore, no claim can be laid to a copyright in the graphic
 elements of the visual display of GUI. Likewise, there is no pleading
 claiming copyright in a 'computer programme' and therefore, no
 monopoly can be sought over the functionality or the visual display
 occasioned by a computer programme. As regards 'literary work', the
 only context is the concept note for which, as noted above, there are
 no pleadings of how the gaming application of the Defendants
 substantially copies the concept note. 41. Even otherwise, the claim of the Plaintiffs cannot prima facie
 succeed for infringement pertaining to the GUI. The principles
 elucidated by the Supreme Court to test infringement of copyright are
 broadly: (i) "If the Defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation
 of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there, it would
 amount to violation of copyright", and (ii) "one of the surest and safest
 test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of
 copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or viewer after having read
 or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets and
 unmistakable expression that the subsequent work appears to be a
 copy of the original". As laid down in Twentieth Century Fox Film
 Corporation v. Stonesifer, 140 F. 2d 579, the two works have to be
 tested not hypercritically or with meticulous scrutiny, but by Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 66 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 observations and impressions of an average reasonable reader and
 spectator. In K.R. Venugopala Sarma v. Sangu Ganesan , 1971 SCC
 OnLine Mad 342, it was held albeit in case of a film that degree of
 resemblance, which is to be judged by the eye, must be such that the
 person looking at one's work gets the suggestion that it is of the other,
 i.e. it is a substantial copy. 42. Having carefully perused the comparative of the screenshots of
 the GUIs of the respective parties, this Court is unable to come to a
 conclusion even prima facie that there is a substantial copy by the
 Defendants. While it cannot be denied that there are a few similarities
 but those are insignificant and the dissimilarities outweigh the trivial
 similarities. In R.G. Anand (supra), the Supreme Court observed that
 the Courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on
 fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted
 in the copyrighted work. In Dorsey v. Old Surety Life Ins. Co., 98 F.
 2d 872, Phillips, J. observed that the right secured by a copyright is
 not the right to use of certain words, nor the right to employ ideas
 expressed thereby. Rather it is the right to that arrangement of words
 which the author has selected to express his ideas, and to constitute
 infringement in such cases a showing of appropriation in the exact
 form or substantially so, of the copyrighted material is required.
 Applying the said principle and comparing the two applications, it is
 evident that the rival user interfaces have different colour schemes,
 graphics, texts, placement of elements, icons, bottom bar, etc. As an
 illustration, the top bar/description bar/middle page and bottom bar of
 home page are extracted hereunder, which would demonstrate the
 distinctions:- 43. Furthermore, a comparison of the buy/sell page and final result
 pages would also prima facie show the difference in the two
 applications as follows:- 44. Additionally, the screenshots will further substantiate
 similarities between Plaintiffs' application and third parties and this
 demonstrates that for a fantasy sports app for a game of cricket some
 commonalities are bound to exist as the basic format of the game will
 remain unchanged and thus Defendants cannot be held guilty of
 substantial copy and consequentially, infringement. The screenshots
 are as follows:- 45. In comparing the rival apps, this Court has analysed the
 individual elements as this exercise is permissible in law, besides the Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 70 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 fact that the learned senior counsels had, during the course of
 arguments taken the Court through an elaborate exercise of comparing
 individual elements, after filing comparative charts. In Apple
 Computer, Inc. v. Microsoft Corporation, MANU/FENT/ 0825/1994,
 the challenge to the order of the District Court, amongst other
 grounds, was to the methodology of dissection of the elements
 adopted for the purpose of comparison, to come to a conclusion of
 infringement of copyright, in a dispute between Apple and Microsoft
 Corporation and the relevance of the case to the present case is that
 one of the issues involved therein was with respect to the Graphical
 User Interface and the Court held as follows:- [40] As we made clear in Aliotti, the party claiming infringement
 may place "no reliance upon any similarity in expression resulting
 from" unprotectable elements. Id. (emphasis added) (similarities
 between competing stuffed dinosaur toys on account of posture and
 body design, and being cuddly, stem from the physiognomy of
 dinosaurs or from the nature of stuffed animals and are thus
 unprotectable). Otherwise, there would be no point to the extrinsic
 test, or to distinguishing ideas from expression. In this case, it would
 also effectively rescind the 1985 Agreement. This does not mean that
 at the end of the day, when the works are considered under the
 intrinsic test, they should not be compared as a whole. See
 McCulloch v. Albert E. Price, Inc., MANU/FENT/0346/1987 : 823
 F.2d 316, 321 (9th Cir. 1987) (contrasting artistic work at issue,
 where decorative plates were substantially similar in more than the
 one unprotectable element (text), with factual works which have
 many unprotectable elements and very little protectable expression).
 Nor does it mean that infringement cannot be based on original
 selection and arrangement of unprotected elements. However, the
 unprotectable elements have to be identified, or filtered, before the
 works can be considered as a whole. See Harper House, 889 F.2d at
 207-08 (reversing because "total impact and effect" test of jury
 instruction did not distinguish between protectable and
 unprotectable material, thereby improperly making it possible for
 jury to find copying based on unprotected material instead of
 selection and arrangement); see also Pasillas, 927 F.2d at 443
 (copyright holder could not rely on unprotectable elements to show
 substantial similarity of expression); Frybarger, 812 F.2d at 529 (to
 extent that similarities between works were confined to ideas and
 general concepts, they were noninfringing). [41] The district court's conclusion that the works as a whole are
 entitled only to limited protection and should be compared for
 virtual identity follows from its analytic dissection. By virtue of the
 licensing agreement, Microsoft and HP were entitled to use the vast
 majority of features that Apple claims were copied. Of those that Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 75 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 remain, the district court found no unauthorized, protectable
 similarities of expression in Windows 2.03 and 3.0, and only a
 handful in NewWave. Thus, any claim of infringement that Apple
 may have against Microsoft must rest on the copying of Apple's
 unique selection and arrangement of all of these features. Under
 Harper House and Frybarger, there can be no infringement unless
 the works are virtually identical. [42] Apple, however, contends that its audiovisual work with
 animation and icon design cannot be analogized to factual works
 such as game strategy books, see Landsberg v. Scrabble Crossword
 Game Players, Inc., MANU/FENT/0388/1984 : 736 F.2d 485, 488
 (9th Cir. ) ("[S]imilarity of expression may have to amount to
 verbatim reproduction or very close paraphrasing before a factual
 work will be deemed infringed."), cert. denied, 469 U.S. 1037, 105
 S.Ct. 513, 83 L.Ed.2d 403 (1984), accounting systems, see Selden,
 101 U.S. at 104, 25 L.Ed. 841 (copyright in book describing new
 accounting system not infringed when defendant copied ledger
 sheets used in system), or organizers, see Harper House, 889 F.2d at
 205 (as compilations consisting largely of uncopyrightable elements,
 plaintiff's organizers entitled only to protection against "bodily
 appropriation of expression"), which are afforded only "thin"
 protection because the range of possible expression is narrow. See
 Feist, 499 U.S. at 349, 111 S.Ct. at 1289-90. Rather, it submits that
 the broader protection accorded artistic works is more appropriate.
 See, e.g., McCulloch, 823 F.2d at 321 (artistic work like a decorative
 plate receives broader protection because of endless variations of
 expression available to artist). [43] Which end of the continuum a particular work falls on is a
 call that must be made case by case. We are satisfied that this case is
 closer to Frybarger than to McCulloch. See also Atari Games Corp.
 v. Oman, MANU/UDCC/0245/1992 : 979 F.2d 242, 245 (D.C. Cir.
 1992) (analogizing audiovisual work like a videogame to
 compilation of facts). Accordingly, since Apple did not contest
 summary judgment under the virtual identity standard on the merits,
 judgment was properly entered. [44] Apple also argues that the district court improperly confined
 the rule in Shaw, 919 F.2d at 1361, that if a work passes the
 extrinsic test it should go to the jury, to literary works. See Kouf v.
 Walt Disney Pictures & Television, MANU/FENT/0232/1994 : 16
 F.3d 1042, 1045-46 (9th Cir. 1994) (applying Shaw's rule to motion
 picture screenplay and holding that plaintiff failed to satisfy extrinsic
 test); Brown Bag, 960 F.2d at 1476 (declining to limit Shaw as a
 matter of law to literary works because at least some computer
 programs are similar to literary works). But see Pasillas, 927 F.2d
 at 442-43 (limiting Shaw to literary works and affirming summary Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 76 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 judgment on competing "Man in the Moon" masks for lack of
 substantial similarity of protectable expression). We don't have to
 resolve whether audiovisual works such as GUIs are more similar to
 Man in the Moon masks than to scripts, however. Apple could have
 gone to the jury under a virtual identity standard, but elected not to.
 [45] We therefore hold that the district court properly identified
 the sources of similarity in Windows and NewWave, determined
 which were licensed, distinguished ideas from expression, and
 decided the scope of Apple's copyright by dissecting the
 unauthorized expression and filtering out unprotectable elements.
 Having correctly found that almost all the similarities spring either
 from the license or from basic ideas and their obvious expression, it
 correctly concluded that illicit copying could occur only if the works
 as a whole are virtually identical." 46. On a careful analysis of the GUIs of the rival apps and their
 elements, this Court prima facie holds that User Interface of the
 Defendants is not a substantial copy of the GUI of Plaintiffs' app. This
 is more so because, after the legal notice sent by the Plaintiffs,
 Defendants have made substantial changes in their app. In R.G.
 Anand (supra), the Supreme Court has held that similarity of the
 alleged infringing work to the authors' or proprietors' copyrighted
 work does not of itself establish copyright infringement, if the
 similarity results from the fact that both works deal with the same
 subject or have the same common source. It was also held that
 appropriation must be substantial. Relevant paragraphs are as
 follows:- It was also pointed out in this book as to what constitutes colourable
 imitation. In this connection, the following observations have been
 made: The question is not whether the alleged infringer could have
 obtained the same information by going to the same source used by
 the plaintiff in his work, but whether he did in fact go to the same
 source and do his own independent research. In other words, the test
 is whether one charged with the infringement made an independent
 production, or made a substantial and unfair use of the plaintiff's
 work. 47. There is yet another aspect to the matter. One of the well
 recognized doctrines is the doctrine of merger i.e. where there are only
 very few ways to express a given idea and to refer to the observations
 of this Court in Mattel, Inc. (supra), the doctrine postulates that where
 the idea and expression are inextricably linked or connected, it would
 not be possible to distinguish between the two. In other words,
 expression should be such that it is the idea and vice versa resulting in
 an inseparable merger of the two. Applying the doctrine of merger,
 Courts have refused to protect the expression of an idea through
 copyright where it can be expressed in a limited manner as doing so
 would confer monopoly on the idea itself. Relevant paragraphs from
 the judgment are as follows:- 23. The case of Allen v. Academic Games League of Am., 89
 F.3d 614 (9th Cir. 1996) is worth noticing at this stage. The plaintiff
 in that case contended that the rule books published by the
 defendants to play the games developed by the him, violated his
 copyright over the tournament rulebooks developed by him. The
 court rejected the plaintiffs claim and held that: This doctrine of merger is particularly applicable with respect
 to games "since they consist of abstract rules and play ideas."
 Midway Mfg. Co. v. Bandai-America, Inc., 546 F.Supp. 125, 148
 (D.N.J. 1982); see also Anti-Monopoly, Inc. v. General Mills
 Fun Group, 611 F.2d 296, 300 n.l. (9th Cir. 1979). A similar
 logic has been applied to rules of a contest where most
 subsequent expressions of an idea of a rule are likely to appear
 similar to the words of a related rule. See Morrissev v. Proctor
 & Gamble Co., 379 F.2d 675, 678-79 (1st Cir. 1967); Affiliated
 Hospital Products, Inc. v. Merdel Game Mfg. Co., 513 F.2d
 1183, 1188-89 (2nd Cir. 1975). Here, Allen has not shown that
 it is possible to distinguish the expression of the rules of his
 game manuals from the idea of the rules themselves. Thus, the
 doctrine of merger applies and although Allen may be entitled to
 copyright protection for the physical form of his games, he is not
 afforded protection for the premises or ideas underlying those
 games. To hold otherwise would give Allen a monopoly on such
 commonplace ideas as a simple rule on how youngsters should
 play their games." 24. The doctrine of merger was also applied in Atari Inc v. North
 American Philips Consumer Electronics Corp, 672 F.2d 607, (1982
 US App. LEXIS 21341) to deny wider protection to elements in the
 video games. The US Court of Appeals (Seventh Circuit), speaking
 through a panel of three judges, said: The above formulation is not meant to foreclose copyright protection
 to all games; indeed, there can be certain distinctive elements, or
 patterns, innovated or created by its author, which, though intrinsic
 to the game, can claim independent copyright protection. 25. In India, in relation to games, rules and schemes (for
 playing) are not protectable under the Patents Act, 1970 ; they are
 not deemed inventions under the Act. Section 3 of the Patents Act,
 provides as follows: An untenable patent claim-as rules of a game are-cannot
 transmigurate into a wider, longer lasting copyrightable expression.
 Such rules, in the absence of clear segregation of the expression
 from the idea, cannot be granted copyright protection. The
 expression, in this case is the idea itself. 26. The plaintiffs' claim to copyright is in respect of the three
 game-boards, with the diagonal criss-cross design with placement of
 the double word, triple word, double and triple letter values, as well
 as rules of the game. Every literary or artistic work, to be afforded
 protection, should be "original" under the Act. The content of what
 is 'original' has undergone considerable change from the previously
 applicable "sweat of the brow' doctrine spelt out in University of
 London Press (supra) to the 'modicum of creativity' standard put
 forth in Fiest Publication Inc. v. Rural Telephone Service, 199 US
 340 (1991). Our Supreme Court has also signified a shift; in Eastern
 Book Company v. DB Modak , (2008) 1 SCC 1, following the
 approach of the Canadian Supreme Court in CCH Canadian
 Ltd. v. Law Society of Upper Canada, (2004) 9 SCC 13, it rejected
 the sweat of the brow doctrine, (which conferred copyright on works
 merely because time, energy, skill and labour was expended, that is,
 originality of skill and labour), and held that the work must be
 original "in the sense that by virtue of selection, co-ordination or
 arrangement of pre-existing data contained in the work, a work
 somewhat different in character is produced by the author". Our
 Supreme Court noticed that the two positions i.e. the sweat of the
 brow on the one hand, and "modicum of creativity"-were extreme; it
 preferred a higher threshold than the doctrine of "sweat of the
 brow" yet, not as high as "modicum of creativity". Thus, our law too
 has recognized the shift, and mandates that not every effort or
 industry, or expending of skill, results in copyrightable work, but
 only those which create works that are somewhat different in
 character, involve some intellectual effort, and involve a certain
 degree of creativity. This standard of originality, is now applicable
 in respect of the plaintiffs' claim to copyright in various aspects of
 the game. 27. So far as the collocation of lines on the game board are
 concerned; the diagonal colour scheme with values for words, and
 the combination thereof, the element of modicum of creativity has
 not been shown, to measure up to the test of "originality",
 post Eastern Book Company. Even otherwise, the creative
 expression, if any is minimalistic not to warrant copyright
 protection. Furthermore, and most importantly, the application of
 the doctrine of merger would mean that the colour scheme on such a
 board can be expressed only in a limited number of ways; if the
 plaintiffs' arrangement were to be avoided, it is not known whether Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 83 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 the idea of such a word game could be played at all. Similarly, the
 reasoning in Allen and Atari, as far as copyrightability of rules of a
 game are concerned apply squarely, in this case. This doctrine of
 merger is applicable with respect to games as (according to those
 decisions) "they consist of abstract rules and play ideas." By way of
 illustration, the arrangement of colours, values on the board, the
 collocation of lines, value for individual alphabetical tiles, etc have
 no intrinsic meaning, but for the rules. If these rules-which form the
 only method of expressing the underlying idea are to be subject to
 copyright, the idea in the game would be given monopoly: a result
 not intended by the lawmakers, who only wanted expression of ideas
 to be protected. Thus, this court concludes, prima facie, that the
 copyright claim of the plaintiff cannot be granted." 48. In this context, I may also allude to passages from The
 Chancellor Masters & Scholars of The University of Oxford v.
 Narendera Publishing House & Anr. , 2008 SCC OnLine Del 1058,
 as follows:- elements are inherent in the syllabi evolved by examination bodies
 such as J & K Board or the CBSE. The plaintiff therefore, had to
 show how it evolved an arrangement so unique that the scheme is
 entitled to copyright protection, independent of the dictates of the
 Board. The involvement of the Board, in the creation of the syllabus,
 negates such originality. This is not to suggest that there can be no
 creativity the such schematic arrangement; the court merely infers
 that prima facie there is no material in support of it; the plaintiff
 have made no attempt to show this creativity, apart from placing the
 textbooks on the record. For those reasons, this court prima facie is
 of the opinion that the plaintiffs' claim of copyright in questions,
 answers, and their requiring or arrangement, is insubstantial." 49. On the same analogy is the judgment of this Court in Samir
 Kasal (supra), where the case of the Plaintiff was that it had
 conceptualized an International Cricket League with some novel
 features and shared the same with Defendant No.2 in confidentiality
 and in breach thereof, there was infringement of copyright of the
 concept, developed by the Plaintiff. Disagreeing with the Plaintiff, the
 Court held that there could be no copyright in the concept since the
 ideas in the concept of the Plaintiff such as retired cricketers playing a
 T-10 test format, etc. were not new and were known concepts. The
 Court observed that fundamentally there will be similarity since what
 was in question was 'game of cricket' on which no one could claim a
 copyright and over the years several permutations and combinations in
 the format of playing the game had been evolved. Even assuming that
 some combination was exclusive, the differences set out were enough
 to take the case out of infringement of copyright. Applying the
 doctrine to the present case, there is no gainsaying that a game of Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 85 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 cricket even through a gaming application can only be played in a
 limited manner with a certain number of players constituting the team;
 two contesting teams; concept of overs; rules of the game;
 scores/points, etc. As held by the Court in Mattel, Inc. (supra), if
 these fundamental commonalities in the game or rules of the game,
 which form the only method of expressing the underlying idea are to
 be subject to copyright, the idea in the game would be given
 monopoly, a result not intended by law makers, who only wanted
 expression of ideas to be protected. Applying these principles, there
 can be little doubt that a game of cricket can only be played in a
 limited manner and format and if the commonality in the two rival
 applications touch upon the concept of overs, constitution of teams,
 scores, points etc., it cannot be held that the second party has infringed
 the copyright of the first party in these features. Taking a clue from
 this judgment, there is a little doubt that even in the fantasy sports
 online gaming applications' regime, the game of cricket can only be
 played in a limited format and therefore, the Defendants cannot be
 held guilty for copyright infringement, save and except, if they had
 copied any original trait of Plaintiffs' app. The claim of uniqueness by
 the Plaintiffs lies in the stock trading feature, however, once this claim
 is not substantiated, no monopoly can be granted in the other features
 of the app, which concern the general rules/format of the game of
 cricket, entitling the Plaintiffs to confirmation of the interim
 injunction order dated 13.04.2022. 50. Judgments relied upon by the Plaintiffs do not come to their aid
 for manifold reasons. First and foremost, this Court has come to a
 finding albeit prima facie that there were prior-existing gaming apps Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 86 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 with stock trading feature, which dents the Plaintiffs' claim to
 originality in the alleged unique feature of stock trading and therefore,
 no monopoly and consequent protection can be granted. This Court
 has also found that Plaintiffs have misrepresented that they have
 launched 'first of its kind Fantasy League Gaming platform for
 cricket, football, basketball and Kabaddi', which formed the basis of
 the ex parte injunction order, a relief in equity. Secondly, even on
 merits on a prima facie view, there is no substantial similarity in the
 User Interface by the Defendants and the concept note lacks
 originality. In Broderbund Software, Inc. (supra), the relevant
 statutory framework in which the US Court rendered its decision was
 different from the Indian Copyright Act and in the said case, the Court
 was concerned with 'audio visual' copyright infringement and 'audio
 visual displays of the computer program', none of which are subject
 matter of the present case. In Ladbroke (Football) Ltd. (supra), the
 question that arose before the Court was whether copyright subsisted
 in 'coupons' as an 'original literary compilation' and the Court
 answered the question in the affirmative, relying on Section 2 of the
 English Copyright Act wherein a 'literary work' includes any written
 table or compilation and the coupon was held to be a compilation in
 which copyright could subsist as literary work. Court also came to a
 finding that there was substantial reproduction by the opposite party of
 the literary work in contrast to the finding rendered by this Court in
 this case. Reliance on Reckitt Benkiser India Ltd (supra) and
 Videocon Industries (supra), is also misplaced as the said cases fall
 under The Designs Act, 2000 . Unlike the Copyright Act, 1957 where
 copyright in a defined 'work' arises through authorship, design rights Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 87 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54 under The Designs Act are conferred by registration, the validity of
 which can be challenged in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Copyright Act does not mandate registration for copyright to subsist
 nor does registration confer any legal rights, as rightly contended by
 the Defendants. While Plaintiffs subtly urged in the pleadings that
 Defendants are guilty of unfair competition, the issue was not
 seriously pressed during the course of hearing and therefore, the
 judgment referred to by Plaintiffs in International News Service v.
 The Associated Press, 248 U.S. 215 (1918), cannot rescue them at this
 stage. None of the other judgments aid the Plaintiffs for the reasons
 stated above and in the given facts and circumstances of this case. 51. In view of the aforesaid, this Court is of the prima facie view
 that there is no copyright infringement by the Defendants and the ex
 parte injunction order dated 13.04.2022 as modified by order dated
 25.04.2022 is thus vacated. Accordingly, I.A. 6308/2022 under Order
 XXXIX Rule 4 CPC filed by Defendant No.1 is allowed and I.A.
 5896/2022 filed by the Plaintiffs under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC is dismissed, with a usual caveat that the observations and
 findings in the present judgment are only prima facie and will not
 effect the adjudication of the case on merits. 52. Applications are disposed of in the aforesaid terms. JYOTI SINGH, J
 OCTOBER 17 , 2023
 Shivam/kks/KA Signature Not Verified Signed By:KAMAL KUMAR CS(COMM) 244/2022 Page 88 of 88 Signing Date:18.10.2023 14:13:54