HDFC Life Insurance has reported a data breach. In an after-market regulatory filing , the company disclosed the breach. It also noted that it is working with information security experts to investigate the matter and safeguard customer interests.

“We wish to inform (you) that we have received communication from an unknown source, who has shared certain data fields of our customers with us, with mala fide intent,” it stated.

HDFC Life announced that it has initiated an “information security assessment and data log analysis” to identify the root cause of the issue. The company stated, “We will take utmost care to handle the concerns of our customers and take actions to safeguard their interest.”

“We are committed to taking all necessary measures to ensure that such incidents do not recur,” it added.

HDFC Life Insurance’s data breach follows Star Health Insurance’s report from two months ago. Star Health revealed that hackers leaked personal data, including sensitive details about customers’ medical conditions, online. Star Health Insurance reported it to authorities and initiated a forensic investigation led by independent cybersecurity experts.

The breach allegedly involved 7.24 TB of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) from 31 million customers. The hacker group xenZen leaked the data via Telegram chatbots and offered it for $150,000. These data samples included information such as policy and claims details, along with documents containing names, phone numbers, and addresses. They also featured tax details, copies of ID cards, test results, and medical diagnoses.

Moreover, the hacker also claimed on their platform that they had colluded with Star Health’s CISO (Chief Information Security Officer) to get access to data. Hackers shared screenshots, claiming to show both parties negotiating a deal for access to personal data. However, the authenticity of this remains unverified.

Star Health denied widespread system compromise and backed its CISO, refuting claims of collusion.

The insurer filed a complaint against Telegram for hosting the chatbots and named Cloudflare in its lawsuit. Telegram has faced global scrutiny for allegedly hosting cybercriminal groups on its platform. This came especially after French authorities arrested its founder, Pavel Durov. The arrest was in connection with a police investigation into criminal networks using the platform.

A forensic investigation into Star Health Insurance’s data breach later disproved allegations that the CISO collaborated with the hacker. The investigation found no evidence of the CISO leaking customers’ personal information.

In October, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) instructed all insurance companies to review their IT systems for potential vulnerabilities, reported Economic Times. This advisory came in response to reports of data breaches at two major general insurance companies, Star Health and Allied Insurance, and Tata AIG General Insurance. Star Health officially disclosed the breach to the stock exchanges, while market sources suggested Tata AIG was also affected.

Earlier this year, HDFC Ergo General Insurance and Bajaj Allianz General Insurance went the extra mile by negotiating with cyber attackers to address claims resulting from ransomware demands, reported Economic Times.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event