SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [COCA COLA INDIA] Won a Coca Cola India lucky draw. Didn’t get the prize. (Scam?)
DATE: 2015-12-04
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3vdlzi/coca_cola_india_won_a_coca_cola_india_lucky_draw/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys I tried to let this go but inside I felt that I need to do something about this and warn people even if its just one person. I'm copy-pasting this from my original thread on the coca-cola sub-reddit because there is literally nothing to change about this except a few things such as the mental harassment which i faced when i pursued it and also the time which i lost and the constant postponement of the delivery of the prize by cocacola India which made me delayed getting my air ticket booking for home and unnecessary lengthening my stay in my rented apartment (I actually paid unnecessary staying/living cost stretching to some thousands, I'm a student by profession btw so financial life was not easy) and a few other issues. But I'm not after the money but an apology from coca cola admitting that they screwed up the whole thing would be good.
[here](https://www.reddit.com/r/cocacola/comments/2xe6yh/coca_cola_india_won_a_coca_cola_india_lucky_draw/) is the original link.
 
&gt;I should’ve posted this here sooner but I didn’t think that I would end up in a stupid situation bad enough to need it. Doing it as a last resort.
Back in October last year ie. in 2014 I had participated in a lucky draw by Coca Cola India. The contest slogan was “Coca Cola Refresh ho jaao, Fridge le jaao” (lit. “Refresh yourself with a Coca Cola, Win a Fridge.”)
The contest worked like this: the wrapper which covered the Coca Cola bottles have a code on the inside. You send this to the given number. That is your entry. This is how the wrapper looks like: http://imgur.com/ndvuKIY And the code http://imgur.com/x0V5NE2
I sent my code on the October 1 and the screenshots of the code which I sent and the message from them confirming my entry: http://imgur.com/feKvArn and http://imgur.com/KmtJ2oG
Here’s a summary of the events with time-stamps (copy/paste from another community where I had originally shared with some edits):
Back in October last year i had sent a code inside a coca cola bottle wrapper to Coca Cola. It was a ”Refresh Ho Jao, Fridge Le Jao” lucky draw contest. It was my first taste of coke in months (my doc banned me from drinking cold drinks and consumption of cold items). For the first week I didn’t get any word. Then one day I got a call from a Coca Cola India employee confirming my entry and that I had won a prize in the contest. But I still didn’t know which prize it was, there were two prizes, fridge and contour glass. Being the busy (or rather lazy) type I didn’t bother to even ask. Then today morning (22nd Nov. I think) I got a message from them http://imgur.com/T3FeGYA I remembered about the contest and called them and confirmed that the prize was a Haier 170L fridge and now I’m gonna send the details (some documents, photo, address proof etc) to them.

22nd Nov 2014: I was a little occupied for the last few days and I shipped the documents. They will reach on Monday since tomorrow is Sunday.

27th Nov 2014: Something came up. By address proof they were actually asking for the legal rent agreement proof. The proof which I gave was in the form of my landlord's signature but it was not valid or so I was told. They asked for an affidavit so I went to get the affidavit documents signed.

28th Nov 2014: There was a problem with my address proof earlier. They told me that the one which I sent them was invalid (I have no idea why) and that they need a legal proof which has my name and full address on it. They said I needed to give them license/PAN/address which has my Delhi address. I do have them but I’m not from Delhi and they are all registered in another place (my permanent address is in another state) so I obviously cannot give them something like that. But they insisted on the proof to have my Delhi address (seriously wtf? How was I suppose to get a legal govt. Identity card with my Delhi address when I’m not even from here?). So I had to run and get the rent agreement signed and sent them today. BTW the person who signs on the affidavit took leave at around 1:30pm so I couldnt give sent them the proof yesterday itself. Damn govt. employees. So I couldnt even stay in peace for a while. (please note that signing a rent agreement affidavit is like a double-edged sword. Landlords here usually have a minimum number of months in which the tenant must stay. I can understand why. They are written on the affidavit. I didn’t sign any affidavit when I moved in. But I had to do it because of this Coca Cola incident. I ended up signing an 11-months stay affidavit). Anyway I finally mailed them the scanned copies of the rent agreement a while ago. Hopefully they won’t have any more issues with it.

4th Dec 2014: Bad news guys. I didn't get any update from Coca Cola so I called them today. I got trolled big time. Yes they told me that my prize winning has been cancelled. No reason was given. The customer representative told me that they got everything they required including the rent proof and ID proof but he doesn't know why it has been cancelled.

14th Dec 2014: Coca Cola called me and told me it was "technical issue" and I would get the fridge in 20 days. Dunno if I will really get it or not.

12th Jan 2015: Still no word from coca cola. They haven’t replied to my mail yet.

5th Feb 2015: I finally got a call from Coca Cola and the person on the other line told me that they tried calling me but couldn’t reach/my number didn’t work. He also told me to provide an alternate number which I did. But the strange thing is my number was working fine. And then there is the other way of contacting me- by email which they didn’t. As I was not in Delhi at that time I provided my cousin number (see the proof in the mail screenshots) who told me that he never got any call from any Coca Cola.
Ever since I’ve been trying to call them but all I got was “all our representatives are busy. Please hold or call later” every time I called. I had been calling them for hours and hours everyday.

17th Feb 2015: Guys I've been trying to call them many times on both their toll free number as well as their paid one but no one is answering. The line is always busy. Before all these incidents I used to get connected swiftly and quickly. I don't know what happened all of a sudden (unless they intentionally set their system to “busy” with my number). I've sent a mail regarding this. I also mentioned the word "scam." Hopefully they will notice it.

27th Feb 2015: Another week has passed. Still no calls, no replies nothing.
I kept calling but I get the same old reply “busy.”
Screenshots of the exchanged mails. http://imgur.com/jAfsauM
I was repeatedly assured that I would get the fridge in (at first) 7 days which they postponed to another 7 days and so on. The last assurance was for the fridge to have been delivered in 14 days. Its 2015 now. Still no fridge.
I appreciate any help in this regard. Thank you.

Update: 28th Feb 2015 4:00PM IST. I finally got a call from Coca Cola. They apparently called my cousin (the alternate no. which I had given them) last evening, as my was number wasn't working at the time (damn Aircel network disappeared on my phone and came back online today), who called me back just a while ago. Then I called one number belonging to a Coca Cola employee (its a different personal no.) who told me about fridge and said he will get back. A minutes later i got a call from Coca Cola and the caller explained the whole situation to me. On the "scam" I told them whatever was on my mind and he apologized and assured me that it was not a scam and that I will definitely get the fridge. Its somewhere in Gurgaon (neighboring capital of another state) right now. But he didn't answer anything about the mails and the domain (@gmail.com/@cocacolca.com) issue. After a brief talk i gave him my Vodafone no. as an alternate number and he asked me if I had my legal identity proof and said he will her back to me after talking to his seniors and the legal team. No specific date for the delivery was given. Might be 7 days from today or 14 days or a month or even another year.
Cheers!

Update: Finally got an update from Coca Cola In. "Dear Sir, This is to inform you that we, at One97 Communications Ltd tried to contact you several times regarding delivery of your prize which was won via participating in “Refresh Ho Jao Fridge Le Jao”, a promotion sponsored by Coca-Cola India Private Limited.
We tried to contact you via your registered mobile number- 8802XXXX multiple times but it went unanswered every time, either it was switched off or not reachable.
This is to formerly confirm that your prize has been forfeited from “Refresh ho Jao Fridge Le jao” promotion.
Registered Mobile Number: 8802XXXX
Unique Code- EXXXXXXX
Thanking You,
ONE97 Communications Limited
On Behalf of Coca-Cola India Private Limited" Wow just wow.

A more detailed post by post update can be found on this [forum](https://www.techenclave.com/community/threads/won-a-fridge-from-coco-cola-contest.170540/)
friends told me to take them to consumer forum and sue them but you know how the mentality of some families/Indians in general are like, they do not want to help me mainly because of "high legal cost, legal cases could take years" etc etc

I still have the contact details of the numbers which were used to get in touch with me then. I can post them but thought that it would be invading of their privacy.
I would like to get suggestion/s from the members here who know more about these issues.

Apologies for the poor formatting (mods can you help?). Thanks for reading.

PS: I may not be able to give quick replies but i will try to do asap.

PS2: Not sure why this thread is getting downvoted for no reason. Frankly i don't find it healthy when all i ask for is a **PROPER** discussion. Really justifying the "randia" term. Thanks anyway.