Well, you better make sure it actually IS customer care. We have always heard warnings and received messages from companies about malicious accounts online posing as company employees. But few of us know how to distinguish the real from the imposter when in a state of panic or confusion.

MediaNama recently spoke to two people: someone who was scammed by a fake Paytm customer care account on Twitter and another who was surprised to have to deal with dubious behaviour of Ola’s ‘customer care’. The conversations brought forward two aspects: the state of companies’ customer care support in India and the likely impact of mandating user verification on social media platforms. Click here to read more insights from companies, experts, and customers. [ 9 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

PRIVACY AND DATA GOVERNANCE

Don’t drag me down : The Indian government allegedly has a dragnet and we are the fish. Ergo, it’s collecting a lot of information on us to strengthen crime prevention databases. In the process, our privacy rights go for a toss. Two civil society groups have been battling against this at the Delhi High Court since 2020. Here’s why they want the government’s “dragnet surveillance” to come to a halt. [ Read , 4 minutes ]

Waiting for Godot: The wait for our National Cybersecurity Policy is starting to resemble the wait for Godot (who never appears). When responding to a parliamentary question, the IT Ministry refused to provide any status updates on the policy, but in a separate instance, revealed that 50 government websites were hacked in 2022. Well, if that’s not a high enough number to get working on enacting the policy, we don’t know what is. [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

Waiting for Godot—the second chapter : Last September, the IT Ministry withdrew its draft guidelines on data anonymisation within a week of publishing them. A few months later, the Ministry said it couldn’t divulge as to when they’d be up again. Last week, the Ministry said that it has “no view” on when the guidelines will be re-published for public consultation. We’re waiting for many Godots in India. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

Aadhaar, the fraud enabler? Multiple gangs are operating in India to steal people’s money using the government’s favourite Aadhaar project, which is now connected to the life and livelihood of many Indian citizens. While security of Aadhaar biometric data has long been questioned, here’s how fraudsters are devising strategies to make money using Aadhaar-based payment systems. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

REAL MONEY GAMING/GAMBLING REGULATIONS

Speak for yourself : Four members of one of India’s leading tech policy industry bodies aren’t happy with its statement critiquing the proposed online gaming rules. These four gaming companies reportedly wrote to the government to remind them that they have their own views—which don’t “align” with the body’s. The bottom line: what your cup of tea is may not be mine. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Tell me something new : A government task force has come out with a new report on how to boost India’s Animation, Visual Effects, Gaming and Comic (AVGC) industry. There’s lots of interesting policy recommendations on how to transform institutions to support the sector—with a specific focus on gaming too. If you get bored while reading it, it’s got some cool fun facts too. For example, did you know that the “VFX of ‘Thor: The Dark World’ was partially done by a studio in Mumbai”? [ Read , 8 minutes ]

PLATFORM REGULATION

The app bans are back: After nearly a year of inactivity on this front, the Indian government has come up with a fresh list of Chinese-linked apps to block, taking the tally of banned Chinese apps to over 500. This time, the government is targeting betting and loan lending apps, a welcome news for both the industries, which have been complaining about foreign apps bringing disrepute. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

Samsung wants to work with Digilocker: Phone manufacturers like Samsung, Oppo, and Google have expressed interest in working with Digilocker, said Debabrata Nayak, Director – DigiLocker. With its sky-high aim of reaching 50 crore users in the next 3 years, this seems to be the right move. But without enough privacy safeguards and rights, sensitive data of millions of Indians could become vulnerable to breaches. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

CRYPTOCURRENCY

WazirX moves away from Binance: The public feud between WazirX and Binance came to a head as WazirX transferred its assets to wallets from Binance’s wallets. The world’s largest exchange had issued an ultimatum to WazirX to retract its “false claims” or it would terminate its wallet service by February 3, 2023. This may not be the last we hear from these two. [ Read ?, 3 minutes ]

U.S. military shoots down suspected Chinese surveillance balloon [ Read ] (Ashley Capoot/ CNBC)

Italy warns hackers targeting known server vulnerability [ Read ] (Elvira Pollina and Krystal Hu/Reuters]

Big Tech companies use cloud computing arms to pursue alliances with AI groups [ Read ] (Madhumita Murgia/Financial Times)

Why Microsoft’s $69 Billion Activision Deal Hinges on London Not Washington [ Read ] (Katharine Gemmell and Stephanie Bodoni/Bloomberg)

Elon Musk says Twitter will provide a free write-only API to bots providing ‘good’ content [ Read ] (Ivan Mehta/ TechCrunch)

Judge Releases Decision Approving Meta’s Virtual-Reality Deal [ Read ] (Jan Wolfe/ The Wall Street Journal)

Paytm Shares Climb After Payments Giant Reports Narrower Loss [ Read ] (Saritha Rai/Bloomberg)

Former Trump official led feds to Telegram group livestreaming child abuse [ Read ] (Ashley Belanger/ Ars Technica)

Potential Buyers Circle Embattled Singapore Crypto Lender Hodlnaut and its Claims Against FTX [ Read ] (Suvashree Ghosh/Bloomberg)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event