Mobile VAS company Altruist Technologies has acquired Hong Kong and Kolkata-based analytics company iConnectiva in an all-cash deal, reports Techcircle . The deal size hasn’t been disclosed. iConnectiva, which is run by Connectiva Analytics and Insights Ltd., provides fraud management, revenue assurance and big data analytics solutions among others to telecom, media and utility companies. The report claims that iConnectiva will continue to operate as an independent entity following the acquisition.

The Hong Kong-headquartered company, which was previously known as Mara-Ison Connectiva Ltd. , was founded by Rajesh Sanghi, Arunesh Sharan and Apratim Basu. The CMETRICA Big Data analytics platform developed by iConnectiva is an integrated solution that supports data storage, provides real-time and batch data analytics, etc. The company claims to have a presence in 35 countries in the Middle East, Africa, Europe and India. According to the company website , iConnectiva has worked with Airtel , BSNL , Idea Cellular , Globacom (Nigeria), Zain Group (Middle East), and Elion (Estonia), among others.

Bubbly acquisition: Last month, Altruist had acquired Singapore-based social voice messaging company Bubbly for an undisclosed amount. This deal added Bubbly’s 40 million registered users across Asia and the Middle East, and the SMS-based BubbleTalk’s 140 million users (claimed) across India and other parts of Asia to Altruist’s portfolio of voice-based services.

Other Altruist acquisitions

Altruist had acquired Sweden-based VAS company Teligent Telecom in an all-cash deal in July 2012. Following the acquisition, Altruist gained access in the European, North African and US markets. It already had a presence in Southeast Asia, Middle East and Africa. The Chandigarh-based company claims to have over 80 million active voice messaging users across Africa and Europe.

A year earlier, Altruist had acquired 100% stake (except ESOPs) in mobile applications and IT solutions company RelayStrategy , and 20% stake in mobile VAS Retail and voice gaming company Vegam, within a space of three weeks.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event