I procured Realme GT Master Edition from Flipkart Online Portal (Authorised Partner to sell this product) on[protected] through order ID as OD[protected]. I paid full amount (100%) for this and this phone was not under Flipkart Smart Upgrade Plan. (See the invoice) Since then, I was using this phone without of any problem and I formatted this phone too many times, when I feel speed is slow. Each and every time I face no problem. During this period I regularly updated android version from 11 to 12 to 13 as well as regular patches from Realme. On[protected], after reformatting my device, when I was on initial setup ( i.e. selecting region, language etc. ) I got a full screen Flipkart Terms and condition notification to accept “Flipkart Smart Upgrade Plan” immediately after filling the Wi-Fi password. There was no skip, reject button was on it to move forward. There was only a accept button and phone was in locked condition, i.e. I was not able to move forward, backward, swipe down and upward. (See the screen shot) Now as my phone was not under any plan, I was not agreeing to accept any plan, which I didn’t opt. I try to contact customer care on[protected], written on my invoice, I got message this number is not operational. Then I tried [protected], Each and every time I got message that all executives are busy try another time. Then I opened Flipkart account through PC and request call back. Flipkart call back to me and lady was so gentle. She listen my problem and checked everything on portal and told me that my problem is genuine. I should contact to Realme, as only Realme (Manufacturer of Device) can resolve it. She gave me a number [protected]. I contacted on this number and told them everything. CC executive was also gentle person and he listen everything. He took some time to check details and then accepted that this is genuine problem and should not be there. Now the question is arising that (1) Why Reealme/Flipkart/Seller implanted a malware in my phone, while phone was not under any plan. (2) When I paid 100% asked money at the time of procurement, then why I am getting locked notification to accept any plan from Flipkart. (3) If it is there, then why there is no skip/forward button on this notification to move forward to further setup the device, as phone is not under any plan, (4) Is this malware is capable of stealing my personal sensitive information and sending it to Realme / Flipkart/Seller or any hacker. (Remember Realme is a Chinese company under BB electronics having Vivo, Oppo, Oneplus, Iqoo etc under its flag), (5) As I come to know through internet and my friends, that if I will accept this plan, then I will automatically registered to pay some 30% additional amount of already paid amount at the time of procurement of this device. i.e. I have to pay total 130% for this device. (6) If above statement is true, then where is my already paid 30% amount. Is it was not shown to Income Tax department by Realme/Flipkart/Seller. Let us assume there were one Lakh Phone sold and 30% amount was Rs/-3000, then who steal tax related 100000x3000=Rs/[protected], from Indian Government. It’s a Scam and ED and IT (Enforcement Directorate) should keep an eye on it. Remember earlier Oppo and other Chinese company already comes under their radar. (7) If it is not a scam, then Realme/Flipkart/Seller, should recheck the Order IDs and make a Patch and release to each and every genuine customer who is not under this plan, to resolve this issue. (8) Indian Cyber Security agencies I Cert, must take this type of incident into account, and check Is it legal to implant such type of malware, which is having capability to lock the consumer mobile. Remember this is happening when user login to WiFi or Mobile Sim Network. This means this malware immediately connecting to some server, sending mobile information to them. A very serious issue, because only security agencies are authorised to implant such type of malware, to counter check the activity of any suspected person. If this is done by any department i.e. Realme/Flipkart/Seller, not authorised to do or not taken permission from Indian government or authorised agencies to counter check an Indian Citizen, then this is a clear cyber-crime and breach of Privacy of a person. Any Person/Agencies/Department must be punished who is behind it. (9) As in case of me FLIPKART, REALME CUSTOMER CARE ALREADY TOLD ME THAT THEY CAN NOT RESOLVE IT. THEN WHY THEY IMPLANT THIS INTO MY DEVICE. THIS IS A BIG QUESTION. Realme/Flipkar/Seller should consider it and resolve it. Because I will not accept any plan, which was not opted by me at the time of procurement or during this period.