IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL "D", BENCH MUMBAI
 BEFORE SHRI RAJESH KUMAR, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER
 &
 SHRI AMARJIT SINGH, JUDICIAL MEMBER IT A No.2225/Mum/2019 (Assessment Year: 2015-16)
Shri Manoj Kunverji Gala, Vs. Income Tax Officer- The present appeal by the assessee has been preferred
against the order dated 28.02.2019 of the Commissioner of
Income Tax (Appeals) [hereinafter referred to as the CIT(A)]
relevant to assessment year 2015-16. 2. The grounds raised by the assessee are as under: 3. The issue raised in ground No.1 to 3 is against the order
of Ld. CIT(A) upholding the addition of Rs.2,24,65,230 /- by Ld.
CIT(A) which was made by the AO under section 68 of the Act
by rejecting the claim of the assessee in respect of long term
capital gain on sale of shares under section 10(38) of the Act. 4. The facts in brief are that the assessee filed the return of
income on 31.10.2015 declaring an income of Rs.13,97,910/-
by claiming Rs.2,20,06,230/- as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act
in respect of long term capital gain on sale of equity shares of
M/s. Matra Kaushal Enterprises Ltd. (earlier known as M/s.
Kaushalya Global Ltd.). The case of the assessee was selected
under scrutiny under CASS on the basis of information from
Kolkata Investigation Wing that the assessee is a beneficiary of
long term capital gain on sale of penny stocks which are
suspicious and bogus as revealed during
investigation/searches on various operations, brokers, exit
providers etc. Accordingly, the AO called upon the assessee to
furnish the details/documents in respect of claim of long term
capital gain of Rs.2,20,06,230/- claimed under section 10(38)
of the Act. The assessee purchased 50,000 shares of M/s.
Kaushalya Global Ltd. now merged with M/s. Matra Kaushal
Enterprises Ltd. having face value of Rs.10 each on 13.08.2012
vide allotment invoice No.007/2012-2013. The said shares 3 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

were transferred to Dmat account on 28.03.2013. Thereafter,
the assessee was allotted 50,000 shares of M/s. Matra Kaushal
Enterprises Ltd. on 19.10.2013 after amalgamation of the
company as approved by Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh High Court.
The equity shares were split on 28.04.2014 in the ratio of 1:10
of Rs.1 each and thus the holding of 50,000 equity shares
became 5 lakh equity shares. The said shares were sold on
31.03.2015 at a price of Rs.2,24,65,230/-. The AO discussed
in para 5 of the assessment order that the said gain was
suspicious and para 6 the AO observed that the fundamentals
of the said company were very week and finally treated the said
gain as bogus. The assessee produced the following
corroborating evidences before the AO in support of its claim of
exemption under section 10(38) on long term capital gain on
sale of shares: 6. The Ld. A.R. vehemently submits that the assessee is a
regular investor and makes investments through registered
brokers and thus carries out purchase and sale of equity
shares on recognized stock exchange on the screen based
online platform. The Ld. A.R. submitted that all the conditions
for claiming exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act are fully satisfied
by the assessee while claiming the exemption in the income tax
return for the relevant assessment year under appeal. The
dates of purchase/allotment of equity shares, mode of payment
of purchase being by account payee cheques only, period of
holding, dates of sales of equity shares through the online
screen based trading on the BOLT platform of stock exchange, 6 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

identifications and details of SEBI and stock exchange
registered reputed brokers and Stock Broker Ltd, transaction
related expenses such as brokerage, service tax, STT, stamp
duty, exchange and SEBI turnover charges etc are already on
records of the revenue and also forms part of assessment
order. The ld AR submits that the Ld. AO in the impugned
assessment orders has rejected the claim of exemption u/s
10(38) of the Act and made additions of the entire sale proceeds
of shares as unexplained credit u/s 68 of the Act, alleging that
the appellant has arranged bogus LTCG by trading in penny
stock companies in his name i) investigation report of
directorate of investigation wing, Kolkata; ii) alleged bogus
LTCG resulting from steep movement of share prices etc
detailed in the assessment order.; iii) statements recorded by
the directorate of investigation wing, Kolkata of various parties.
The ld AR submits that in essence the entire addition is based
on preponderance of possibilities, circumstantial evidences and
not based on justifiable/clinching evidences, human conduct in
general and not specific findings or allegations on the assessee.
There are several judicial pronouncements of jurisdictional
ITAT and High Courts wherein it has been categorically held
that addition based on such general hypothesis cannot be
made. 7.1. The ld AR also contended that during the course of
assessment proceedings and appellate proceedings before
CIT(A), the appellant filed all documents for establishing
bonafide and genuineness of claim of exemption u/s 10(38) of
the Act. Therefore, the denial of claim of exemption made by the 7 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

Ld. AO ignoring the relevant and factual documentary
evidences filed by the appellant is absolutely improper and
against the principle of natural justice and equity. 7.2. The ld AR, while referring to the assessment order,
submits that none of the descriptions, allegations,
observations, findings, statements reproduced etc in the
impugned order of AO are relevant or having any cogent,
collaborative, identifiable or clinching to the LTCG realized by
the appellant. The ld AR submits that the appellant had never
transacted with any operator or such intermediary in the
process of carrying out investments and further that the alleged
operators and their records do not in any manner mention any
connection with appellant. The ld AR submits that the shares
were duly allotted to the appellant and were recorded into the
D-mat account upon such purchase/allotment. Shares were
sold on BSE through regular registered brokers of assessee
under screen based trading where the seller and buyer of
shares are wholly unaware of the identity of the other person.
STTs were paid at the time of sale of shares and proceeds were
received into bank accounts of the assessee only through
proper banking channel. 7.3. The ld AR submits that based on inquiry and investigation
of Wing, the AO has surmised that assessee routed his black
money without establishing any money trail. The ld AR argued
that the Ld. AO has hopelessly failed to establish that the
assessee has paid any unaccounted money to any of the parties
referred by the Ld. AO in the impugned AO. None of the replies
to the questions of such parties indicates that they have 8 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

received any unaccounted money from the assessee at the time
of selling of these equity shares by the assessee. The findings of
the Investigation Wing of the Revenue are general in nature
and it is basically a study report and not specifically
mentioning which cases are investigated. The ld AR argues
that nowhere in the assessment order, the AO has established
any linkage between the reports of the investigation wing and
assessee's transactions. Moreover the assessee was not
confronted with the investigation report which was relied by
the AO. The AR strongly argued that this is a fatal and
incurable mistake on the part of the AO and can not be
rectified as reliance on such investigation report, without
confronting the assessee with the same, renders the
assessment framed as bad in law. The ld AR in defense of his
arguments relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in the case of Adamine Construction Pvt. Ltd. 99 Taxmann 45
wherein while dismissing the appeal, the Hon'be court has
referred to observations of Delhi HC that what is evident is
that the AO went by only the report received and did not make
the necessary further enquiries such as into the bank accounts
or other particulars available with him but rather based the
entire findings on the report, which cannot be considered as
primary material. The assessee had discharged the onus initially
cast upon it by providing the basic details which were not
suitably enquired into by the AO. 7.4. The ld AR submits that the Ld. AO placed reliance on
statements of several third parties without providing
opportunities for cross examination which is contrary to the 9 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in M/s Andaman Timber
Industries V/s CCE (CA No.4228 of 2006) wherein it was held
that not allowing the assessee to cross-examine the witnesses
by the adjudicating authority whereas the statement of those
witnesses were made the basis of the impugned order is a
serious flaw which makes the order nullity in as much as it
amounts to violation of principal of natural justice because of
which the assessee was adversely affected. The whole basis of
making the addition is third party statement without there
being any tangible material. The ld. AR submits that it is trite
law that additions merely on the basis of suspicious,
conjectures or surmises could not be sustained in the eyes of
law as held by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Omar Salay Mohamed
Sait V/s CIT (1959 37 ITR 151). The suspicion however strong
could not partake the character of legal evidence as held by
Hon'ble Supreme Court in Umacharan Shaw & Bros. V/s CIT
(1959 37 ITR 271). 7.5. The ld AR submits that movement in prices of shares is
governed by several factors without there being any nexus to
the projects, projection etc and this fact gets clearly established
if one refers to the present movement in shares of several
companies. The Ld. AO has failed to establish any link to the
process of rigging and manipulating of prices of shares in
connivance with parties whose names are mentioned in the
impugned assessment orders. 7.6. Finally, the ld AR prayed before the bench that in view of
the facts and merits and decisions as discussed above the , the
ground no. 1 to 3 may kindly be allowed. I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala 8. Per Contra, the ld DR strongly rebutted the arguments as
made by the ld AR by submitting that the LTCG is nothing but
own money routed into the books through accommodation
entries and was part of a organized racket in which several
brokers/exit providers were involved as has been brought to
light by the search operation by investigation wing of the deptt.
route and not through normal stock exchange operation
and evidences of gradual rigging of prices of these selected
7-8 companies through circular trading and through low
volume transactions. It has been found that the value of
scrip was gradually raised substantially within a period
of about one year and the shares were sold through a set
of exit providers who manipulated and booked huge
losses. It is gathered that initially nationwide searches
were carried out by Investigation Wing, Kolkata of the
Income Tax Department in December 2014, during the
course of which it was found that various persons had
received entries of Long Term Capital Gains through
rigging of shares of small listed companies and the name
of the present assessee and his family members
prominently appeared therein. During the course of
search it was accepted by the stock brokers that relevant
companies were bogus companies (Jama Kharchi
companies) and that they were being used only for
providing accommodation entries. Statements of various
entry operators, directors of companies were also
recorded wherein they had accepted that these companies
were being used for providing bogus Long Term Capital
Gains. These facts have been elaborately discussed by the 11 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

CIT(A), and also by the AO, which are the subject matter
of the present appeal. 9. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the
material on record. We find that in this case the assessee has
purchased shares of M/s. M/s. Matra Kaushal Enterprises Ltd.
in the preferential allotment for a consideration of
Rs.4,59,000/- during the financial year 2012-13. These shares
were transferred to the D-mat account of the assessee and
thereafter split and sub divided in the ratio of 1:10 on
28.04.2014 meaning thereby that per one share of Rs.10 each
the assessee was allotted 10 shares of Rs.1 each. We note that
the assessee has invested in these shares by making a payment
through account payee cheques from the regular bank account
of the assessee and were held in D-Mat account and after being
held for more than 12 months these shares were sold through
the recognized stock exchange through the registered brokers
on 31.03.2015 at a total sale consideration of Rs.2,24,65,230/-
thereby making a long term capital gain of Rs.2,20,06,230/-.
Now the issue before us is whether the claim of the assessee
under section 10(38) of the Act is correct or not. We also note
that the company M/s. Matra Kaushal Enterprises Ltd. in
which the assessee invested money and earned long term
capital gain of Rs.2,20,06,230/- is a listed company on the
stock exchange and subjected to various rules and regulations
and compliances which has to be complied with before making
any allotment to the applicant under preferential allotment
process. We have also examined the various documents filed
by the assessee in the paper book regarding date of purchase,
allotment of equity shares, mode of payment of shares through 12 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

account payee cheque, period of holding and sales of these
shares through online screen based trading on Bolt platform of
stock exchange and also the proof of expenses incurred by the
assessee by way of brokerage, service tax, STT, stamp duty,
Exchange and SEBI turnover charges etc. The assessee has
filed all these proofs before the AO as well as the Ld. CIT(A) as
has been stated hereinabove and are being reproduced for the
sake of convenience. i. Evidence of purchase of shares - Appl ication of shares,
 allotment of shares, share certificates
 ii. Evidence of payment for purchase of share s made by account
 payee cheques, copy of bank sta tements
 iii. Copy of Demat sta te ment reflecting pur cha se
 iv. Copy of Demat sta te ment sho wing sale of sha res
 v. Copies of co ntract note of sales of shares
 vi. Copy of bank statement reflecting sales r eceipt

 The AO has rejected the claim of the assessee by
disbelieving all the above documents which are a third party
documents and treated the sale of shares as unexplained cash
credit under section 68 of the Act on the ground that assessee
has earned this long term capital gain by trading in penny
stock company and relied heavily on the investigation report of
Directorate of Investigation Wing, Kolkata, upward movement
of share prices, statements recorded by the Directorate of
Investigation Wing, Kolkata of various parties such as Shri Raj
Kumar Kedia and others. Thus we note that AO has relied
mainly on the statement of third parties and circumstantial
evidences and no substantive and specific material was
brought on record to prove these allegations and similarly Ld.
CIT(A) has reproduced the entire order of AO and upheld the
same by holding that assessee was beneficiary of
accommodation racket and doubted only the manifold increase 13 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

in the share price by rejecting the facts on record and various
evidencing and corroborating those facts. The assessee has
furnished various documents as stated hereinabove to
corroborate the claim under section 10(38) of the Act. We note
that assessee has furnished all the details qua bank accounts,
D-Mat and trading account, process of preferential allotment
and the person to whom the investments were made and also
the contract note qua the sale of shares on the recognized stock
exchange through registered stock brokers. Pertinent to state
that shares worth Rs. 50,000/- were still with the assessee as
closing stocks. We also note that in the investigation carried
out by the Directorate of Investigation Wing, Kolkata and also
in the statements recorded of various individuals as stated
hereinabove. We find that nowhere the assessee's name
figured and no evidences were found during the course of
search and the entire allegations were based upon the surmises
and conjunctures. The shares were duly allotted to the
assessee and were recorded in the D-Mat account and
thereafter were sold on the Bombay Stock Exchange through
the registered broker and screen based trading where the buyer
and seller of the shares are not aware of each other and the
fact that the consideration was paid and received through
banking channels. Moreover, the authorities below have failed
to establish the money trail involved in the transaction and has
only guessed that assessee might have paid his own money to
route the same into books of accounts. Thus we note that the
finding of the AO in discussing the modus operandi of the scam
and dismissing the various statements of the exit providers is
only general in nature which nowhere states the name of the 14 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

assessee. The AO has also failed to establish a link among
these reports, statements and the investment made by the
assessee and therefore the addition made can not be sustained.
The case of the assessee finds support from the decision of the
Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Adamine Construction Pvt.
Ltd. 99 taxman 45 wherein while dismissing the appeal of the
Revenue has referred to the following observation of the Hon'ble
Delhi High Court. 9.1 Further, we note that the AO has relied on the statement
of his third parties without affording any reasonable
opportunity to the assessee to cross examine those parties
which is in violation of principle of natural justice as has been
held by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Andaman Timber
Industries vs. CCE (CA) No.4228 of 2006 wherein it was held
that not allowing assessee to cross examine the witness by
adjudicating authority though the statements of 6 witnesses
were made the basis of the impugned order is nullity in as
much as which amounts to violation of principles of natural
justice because of which the assessee was adversely affected.
Besides the addition merely on the basis of suspension,
conjuncture and surmises can not be sustained. The case of
the assessee finds support from the decision of Hon'ble Apex
court in the case of Omar Salay Mohamed Sait V/s CIT (1959)
37 ITR 151. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Umacharan 15 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

Shaw & Bros. vs CIT (1959 37 ITR 271) has held that suspicion
how so far strong could not take the character of legal evidence. 9.2 Thus we note that none of the parties alleged by the
Revenue such as broker, operator, directors, exit providers etc.
whose statements were recorded by the Directorate of
Investigation Wing, Kolkata stated the name of the
appellant/his family member. The case of the assessee is
supported by a series of decisions as has been relied upon by
the Ld. Counsel of the assessee during the appellate
proceedings. In the case of Mukesh B. Sharma vs. ITO ITA
No.6249/M/2018 A.Y. 2014-15 order dated 29.05.2019 the
addition made under similar facts was deleted by the co-
ordinate Bench by observing and holding as under: I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala d) Price chart of GIFL from the date of purchase of shares till the recent period. e) Copy of relevant extract of bank statement of the assessee reflecting the sale
proceeds received from the broker and credited to the bank account. 6.2 We find that the assessee pleaded that in an online platform, there would
be no nexus between the purchasers and the seller and the delivery of shares and
payments would be made through their respective stock brokers. Hence the ld AO
ought to have summoned the assessee's brokers to examine the authenticity of the
sale of shares of GIFL and the amount received on sale of shares. We find that the ld
AR also placed evidences on record to prove that the said company GIFL is still listed
in the stock exchange and shares of this company are being traded and SEBI had not
passed any adverse order against the said company. We find that the details of
revenue and profits of GIFL for various years are as under:- 6.3. We find that the ld AO had placed reliance on certain statements recorded
by the Investigation wing of Kolkata Income Tax Department during some survey
proceedings conducted in third party cases. We find that in none of those
statements, the name of the assessee or the name of the brokers through whom
assessee had transacted were mentioned. We also find that there is no mention of
any connivance on the part of the assessee with the share broker and stock exchange
to launder the unaccounted monies of the assessee and bring it back in the form of
sale proceeds of shares and claim exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act for the long term
capital gains derived thereon. None of the parties on whom survey actions were
conducted in Kolkata were related to assessee or the brokers in any manner
whatsoever. We find that the various purchase and sale details together with the
supporting evidences were not controverted by the revenue before us. Even the
cross examination of the parties mentioned in the show cause notice issued to the
assessee by the ld AO were sought by the assessee and the same were refused by the
ld AO . We find that the ld AO had also placed reliance on the order passed by SEBI
while concluding that the transactions carried out by the assessee in the form of sale
of shares as sham and bogus. From the perusal of the SEBI order dated 25.8.2016 in
the case of First Financial Services Ltd, we find that from the extracts thereon, that it
was stated that M/s GIFL was involved in providing exit to the sellers of equity
shares of First Financial Services Ltd and no where stated that this company was
involved in providing accommodation entries in the form of capital gains by
transacting its own shares through the alleged bogus operators. We also find that the 17 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

SEBI had passed on order dated 8.1.2018 in the case of GIFL, wherein it was found
that the name of the assessee herein or the brokers through whom the assessee
transacted were not even included in the said order as parties against whom any
adverse inference / findings were found in respect of violation of provisions of SEBI.
We find that SEBI had issued a show cause notice vide Reference SEBI/EAD-
12/SM/EE/693/25/2018 dated 8.1.2018 which are enclosed in pages 252 to 266 of
the paper book. In pages 257 and 258 of the Paper Book, the list of parties to whom
show cause notices were issued by SEBI is listed out. In the entire list, neither the
name of the assessee nor his lbrokers were included. Later there was another show
cause notice vide Reference EFD/DRA3/OW/NB/6663/2018 dated 1.3.2018 was
issued by Enforcement Department of SEBI mentioning the list of parties to whom
show cause notices were issued. Even in this list, the name of the assessee or his
broker was not included by SEBI. Hence it could be safely concluded that SEBI did
not allege any wrong doing on the part of the assessee or his brokers with regard to
carrying out transactions in sale of shares of GIFL in open market in online platform.
In this subsequent show cause notice dated 1.3.2018, the SEBI also takes records the
fact of issuance of shares on preferential allotment basis on 12.6.2012 by GIFL to
various parties (which includes the assessee also though not named in the SEBI show
cause notice). In this show cause notice also, the SEBI only accused Notice No. 1 to 7
listed in the said notice which admittedly does not include the assessee or his
brokers, to have engaged in manipulation of price of the scrip of GIFL. The said show
cause notice dated 1.3.2018 also stated that Notice Nos. 13 to 46 listed in the said
notice which admittedly does not include the assessee or his brokers, to have sold
the shares at inflated price and booked substantial profit. The said show cause notice
dated 1.3.2018 also stated Notices Nos. 8 to 12 (which admittedly does not include
the assessee or his brokers) were part of the manipulative scheme to make
preferential allotment and manipulate the price, through, entities connected to
company and promoter, to benefit promoter, promoter related entities and
connected preferential allottees. It is not the case of the revenue that the assessee or
his brokers were either the promoters of GIFL, or promoter related entities of GIFL or
related to connected preferential allottees thereon. Hence it could be safely
concluded that the SEBI had not found any adverse findings with regard to the
assessee or his registered share brokers vis a vis GIFL. Hence there is absolutely no
iota of evidence linking the assessee or the registered brokers to even remotely
allege that they were involved in artificial rigging of price of scrips which were dealt
by the assessee herein. 6.4 We find that the ld AO had stated that GIFL is a company of no value. The
revenue stream and the profitability chart reproduced hereinabove does not support
the case of the ld AO. Moreover, the status reported by the ld AO about GIFL was
in Asst Year 2008-09 which is neither the year of purchase of shares by the assessee
nor the year of sale of shares in open market. Hence those findings are totally
irrelevant for adjudication of the issue before us. I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

6.5. We find that the revenue had merely disbelieved the entire documentary
evidences on record and alleged the share sale transactions made in the open market
as bogus based on the statements recorded during survey, which does not have any
evidentiary value. Reliance in this regard is placed on the decision of Hon'ble Madras
High Court in the case of S.Khader Khan (2008) 300 ITR 157 (MAD) assumes
significance, wherein it was held that :- The materials found in the course of survey could not be the basis for making any
addition in the assessment. The word "may" used in section 133A(3)(iii) makes it
clear that the material collected and statement recorded during the survey u/s 133A of the Act are not conclusive piece of evidences by itself. The aforesaid decision was
affirmed by the Honourable Supreme Court in CIT , Salem vs S.Khader Khan in Civil
Appeal No. 13224 of 2008 & 6747 of 2012 dated 20.9.2012, wherein their Lordships
of Supreme Court held as under:- 7. Aggrieved the assessee carried the matter in appeal. 8. The First Appellate Authority upheld the order of the Assessing Officer by
 giving his findings as follows:- 9. Thereafter he referred to a number of judgments relating to human behavior
 and preponderance of human probabilities and upheld the addition made by the
 Assessing Officer by relying on what he calls rules of "Suspicious transactions". 10. The assessee in this case has filed the following evidence before the
 Assessing Officer in support of his contentions:- 11. The Kolkata Bench of the ITAT in a number of decisions have, on similar facts
 and circumstances of the case, decided the issue in favour of the assessee. We list
 some of these decisions:- Cressenda Solutions Pvt. Ltd., decided the issue in favour of the assessee by
 relying upon a plethora of judgments of various Courts. It held as follows:-
 "12. The assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) have rejected these evidences
 filed by the assessee by referring to "Modus Operandi" of persons for
 earning long term capital gains which his exempt from income tax. All
 these observations are general in nature and are applied across the board
 to all the 60,000 or more assessees who fall in this category. Specific
 evidences produced by the assessee are not controverted by the revenue
 authorities. No evidence collected from third parties is confronted to the
 assesses. No opportunity of cross-examination of persons, on whose
 statements the revenue relies to make the addition, is provided to the
 assessee. The addition is made based on a report from the investigation
 wing. 13. The issue for consideration before us is whether, in such cases, the
 legal evidence produced by the assessee has to guide our decision in the
 matter or the general observations based on statements, probabilities,
 human behavior and discovery of the modus operandi adopted in earning
 alleged bogus LTCG and STCG, that have surfaced during investigations,
 should guide the authorities in arriving at a conclusion as to whether the
 claim in genuine or not. An alleged scam might have taken place on LTCG
 etc. But it has to be established in each case, by the party alleging so, that
 this assessee in quesiton was part of this scam. The chain of events and
 the live link of the assesee's action giving her involvement in the scam
 should be established. The allegation imply that cash was paid by the
 assessee and in return the assessee received LTCG, which is income
 exempt from income tax, by way of cheque through Banking channels.
 This allegation that cash had changed hands, has to be proved with
 evidence, by the revenue. Evidence gathered by the Director
 Investigation's office by way of statements recorded etc. has to also be
 brought on record in each case, when such a statement, evidence etc. is
 relied upon by the revenue to make any additions. Opportunity of cross 23 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

examination has to be provided to the assesee, if the AO relies on any
statements or third party as evidence to make an addition. If any material
or evidence is sought to be relied upon by the AO, he has to confront the
assessee with such material. The claim of the assessee cannot be rejected
based on mere conjectures unverified by evidence under the pretentious
garb of preponderance of human probabilities and theory of human
behavior by the department. 14. It is well settled that evidence collected from third parties cannot be
used against an assessee unless this evidence is put before him and he is
given an opportunity to controvert the evidence. In this case, the AO relies
only on a report as the basis for the addition. The evidence based on
which the DDIT report is prepared is not brought on record by the AO nor
is it put before the assessee. The submission of the assessee that she is
just an investor and as she received some tips and she chose to invest
based on these market tips and had taken a calculated risk and had
gained in the process and that she is not party to the scam etc., has to be
controverted by the revenue with evidence. When a person claims that
she has done these transactions in a bona fide and genuine manner and
was benefitted, one cannot reject this submission based on surmises and
conjectures. As the report of investigation wing suggests, there are more
than 60,000 beneficiaries of LTCG. Each case has to be assessed based on
legal principles of legal import laid down by the Courts of law. 15. In our view modus operandi, generalisation, preponderance of
human probabilities cannot be the only basis for rejecting the claim of the
assessee. Unless specific evidence is brought on record to controvert the
validity and correctness of the documentary evidences produced, the same
cannot be rejected by the assessee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
of Omar Salav Mohamed Sait reported in (1959) 37 ITR 151 (S C) had held
that no addition can be made on the basis of surmises, suspicion and
conjectures. In the case of CIT(Central), Kolkata vs. Daulat Ram Rawatmull reported in 87 ITR 349, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that, the onus to
prove that the apparent is not the real is on the party who claims it to be
so. The burden of proving a transaction to be bogus has to be strictly
discharged by adducing legal evidences, which would directly prove the
fact of bogusness or establish circumstance unerringly and reasonably
raising an interference to that effect. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Umacharan Shah & Bros. Vs. CIT 37 ITR 271 held that suspicion
however strong, cannot take the place of evidence. 16. We find that the assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A) has been
guided by the report of the investigation wing prepared with respect to
bogus capital gains transactions. However we do not find that, the
assessing officer as well as the Ld. CIT(A), have brought out any part of the
investigation wing report in which the assessee has been investigated and
/or found to be a part of any arrangement for the purpose of generating
bogus long term capital gains. Nothing has been brought on record to
show that the persons investigated, including entry operators or stock 24 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

brokers, have named that the assessee was in collusion with them. In
absence of such finding how is it possible to link their wrong doings with
the assessee. In fact the investigation wing is a separate department
which has not been assigned assessment work and has been delegated
the work of only making investigation. The Act has vested widest powers
on this wing. It is the duty of the investigation wing to conduct proper and
detailed inquiry in any matter where there is allegation of tax evasion and
after making proper inquiry and collecting proper evidences the matter
should be sent to the assessment wing to assess the income as per law.
We find no such action executed by investigation wing against the
assessee. In absence of any finding specifically against the assessee in the
investigation wing report, the assessee cannot be held to be guilty or
linked to the wrong acts of the persons investigated. In this case, in our
view, the Assessing Officer at best could have considered the investigation
report as a starting point of investigation. The report only informed the
assessing officer that some persons may have misused the script for the
purpose of collusive transaction. The Assessing Officer was duty bound to
make inquiry from all concerned parties relating to the transaction and
then to collect evidences that the transaction entered into by the assessee
was also a collusive transaction. We, however, find that the Assessing
Officer has not brought on record any evidence to prove that the
transactions entered by the assessee which are otherwise supported by
proper third party documents are collusive transactions. 17. The Hon'ble Supreme Court way back in the case of Lalchand Bhagat
Ambica Ram vs. CIT [1959] 37 ITR 288 (SC) held that assessment could not
be based on background of suspicion and in absence of any evidence to
support the same. The Hon'ble Court held: The observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court are equally applicable to the case of
 the assessee. In our view the assessing officer having failed to bring on
 record any material to prove that the transaction of the assessee was a
 collusive transaction could not have rejected the evidences submitted by
 the assessee. In fact in this case nothing has been found against the
 assessee with aid of any direct evidences or material against the assessee
 despite the matter being investigated by various wings of the Income Tax
 Department hence in our view under these circumstances nothing can be
 implicated against the assessee. 18. We now consider the various propositions of law laid down by the
 Courts of law. That cross-examination is one part of the principles of
 natural justice has been laid down in the following judgments: b) Andaman Timber Industries vs. Commissioner of C. Ex.,
Kolkata-II wherein it was held that: 19. On similar facts where the revenue has alleged that the assessee has
declared bogus LTCG, it was held as follows: b) The JAIPUR ITAT in the case of VIVEK AGARWAL [ITA No. 29 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

 292/JP/2017] order dated 06.04.2018 held as under vide Page 9
 Para 3: c) The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of PREM PAL
GANDHI [ITA-95-2017 (O&M)] dated 18.01.2018 at vide Page 3 Para 4
held as under: The Court also held the following vide Page 3 Para 5 the following: d) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of GAUTAM PINCHA [ITA
No.569/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017 held as under vide Page 12
Para 8.1: Further in Page 15 Para 8.5 of the judgment, it held: e) The BENCH "D" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of KIRAN KOTHARI HUF
 [ITA No. 443/Kol/2017] order dated 15.11.2017 held vide Para
9.3 held as under: f) The BENCH "A" OF KOLKATA ITAT in the case of SHALEEN KHEMANI
 [ITA No. 1945/Kol/2014] order dated 18.10.2017 held as under vide Page
 24 Para 9.3: g) The BENCH "H" OF MUMBAI ITAT in the case of ARVIND KUMAR JAIN
 HUF [ITA No.4682/Mum/2014] order dated 18.09.2017 held as under vide
 Page 6 Para 8: h) The Hon'ble Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of VIVEK
MEHTA [ITA No. 894 OF 2010] order dated 14.11.2011 vide Page 2 Para 3
held as under: i) The Hon'ble Jurisdictional Calcutta High Court in the case of CIT vs.
Bhagwati Prasad Agarwal in I.T.A. No. 22/Kol/2009 dated 29.04.2009 at
para 2 held as follows: j) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of PCIT vs. Teju Rohitkumar 33 I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

 Kapadia order dated 04.05.2018 upheld the following proposition of law
 laid down by the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court as under: 20. Applying the proposition of law laid down in the above judgments to
 the facts of this case we are bound to consider and rely on the evidence
 produced by the assessee in support of its claim and base our decision on
 such evidence and not on suspicion or preponderance of probabilities. No
 material was brought on record by the AO to controvert the evidence
 furnished by the assessee. Under these circumstances, we accept the
 evidence filed by the assessee and allow the claim that the income in
 question is Long Term Capital Gain from sale of shares and hence exempt
 from income tax. " 6.10. It would be pertinent to address the case law relied upon by the ld DR
before us on the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court (Nagpur Bench) in the
case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs Pr.CIT (Nagpur ) reported in (2018) 89
taxmann.com 196 (Bombay) dated 10.4.2017 on the impugned issue. From the
facts of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain supra, we find that (i ) in that case , the broker
company through which the shares were sold did not respond to AO's letter
regarding the names and address and bank account of the person who purchased
the shares sold by the assessee ; (ii) Moreover, at the time of acquisition of shares
of both the companies by the assessee, the payments were made in cash ; (iii) The
address of both the companies were interestingly the same ; (iv) The authorized
signatory of both the companies were also the same person ; (v) The purchase of
shares of both the companies was done by that assessee through broker, GSSL and
the address of the said broker was incidentally the address of the two companies.
Based on these crucial facts, the Hon'ble Bombay High Court rendered the decision
in favour of the revenue. None of these factors were present in the facts of the
assessee before us. Hence it could be safely concluded that the decision of Hon'ble
Bombay High Court supra is factually distinguishable. I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

6.11. We find that the Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT vs
Mukesh Ratilal Marolia in ITA No. 456 of 2007 dated 7.9.2011 had held as under:- The ITAT has recoded a finding that the source of funds for acquisition of the
 shares was the agricultural income which was duly offered and assessed to tax
 in those Assessment Years. The Assessee has produced certificates from the
 aforesaid four companies to the effect that the shares were in-fact transferred
 to the name of the Assessee. In these circumstances, the decision of the ITAT in
 holding that the Assessee had purchased shares out of the funds duly disclosed
 by the Assessee cannot be faulted. 6. Similarly, the sale of the said shaers for Rs 1,41,08,484/- through two
 Brokers namely, M/s Richmond Securities Pvt Ltd and M/s Scorpio
 Management Consultants Pvt Ltd cannot be disputed, because the fact that
 the Assessee has received the said amount is not in dispute. It is neither the
 case of the Revenue that the shares in question are still lying with the Assesse
 nor it is the case of the Revenue that the amounts received by the Assessee on
 sale of the shares is more than what is declared by the Assessee. Though there
 is some discrepancy in the statement of the Director of M/s Richmand
 Securities Pvt Ltd regarding the sale transaction, the Tribunal relying on the
 statement of the employee of M/s Richmand Securities Pvt Ltd held that the
 sale transaction was genuine. 7. In these circumstances, the decision of the ITAT in holding that the
 purchase and sale of shares are genuine and therefore, the Assessing Officer
 was not justified in holding that the amount of Rs 1,41,08,484/- represented
 unexplained investment under section 69 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 cannot
 be faulted. 8. In the result, we see no merit in this Appeal and the same is dismissed with
 no order as to costs. 6.12. In view of the aforesaid findings in the facts and circumstances of the case
 and respectfully following the various judicial precedents relied upon
 hereinabove, we hold that the ld CITA was not justified in upholding the action of
 the ld AO in bringing the sale proceeds of shares of GIFL in the sum of Rs
 7,88,77,854/- as unexplained income of the assessee treating the same as just an
 accommodation entry. Consequentially, the addition made towards commission
 on such accommodation entry at the rate of 5% in the sum of Rs 39,43,898/- is
 also hereby directed to be deleted. Accordingly, the grounds raised by the
 assessee are allowed. 7. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed." I T A No . 2 2 2 5 / M u m / 2 0 1 9
 Shri Man oj Kunverj i Gala

9.3. We find that Ld. A.R. has also distinguished the decisions
relied upon by the Ld. CIT(A) as discussed hereinabove and the
same are not applicable. 9.4. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in
the light of various decisions of the co-ordinate Benches and
Hon'ble Jurisdictional High Court we are not in agreement with
the conclusion drawn by the Ld. CIT(A) that the long term
capital gain made by the assessee from sale of shares is a non
genuine transaction and accordingly we set aside the order of
Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the addition made under section 68 of the Act and direct the AO to grant exemption
under section 10(38) of the Act in respect of long term capital
gain. The ground no. 1 to 3 are allowed. 10. The issue raised in ground no. 4 is in respect of
confirmation of addition by the CIT(A) of Rs. 11,23,262/- as
made by the AO towards commission @5% of the total
transaction value is consequential to ground no. 1 to 3 which
have been allowed by us. Consequently ground no. 4 is allowed
and the AO is directed to delete the addition. 11. In the result, all the appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on this: 08/02/2021

 Sd/- Sd/-