General, New Delhi
New Customs House, Near IGI Airport, New Delhi

APPEARANCE: Akshay Logistics where the subject imported goods were destined for

deposition, but the goods were not found. Meanwhile, vide letter F. No.

GEN/CB/292/2023-CBS-0/ PR COMMR-CUS-GEN-Zone-1-Mumbai

dated 25.05.2023 was received forwarding an offence report dated

09.05.2023, for taking appropriate action against the appellant along

with the investigation report dated 06.07.2023. Accordingly, the CB

license was suspended vide order-in-original No.

36/ZR/Suspension/Policy/2023 dated 16.06.2023 under Regulation

16(1) of the CBLR, 2018. A show cause notice dated 04.09.2023 was

issued to the CB and on receipt of the Inquiry report dated

28.11.2023, and vide the impugned order dated 23.02.2024, the CB

license was revoked. Being aggrieved by the said order, the appellant

has filed the present appeal. 3. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the Appellant's

role was limited to filing of B/E for warehouse upon submission of 3 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

Triple Duty Bond with security duly executed by Importer, in the bond

section. Since, there was neither assessment nor examination of the

goods as B/E was RMS facilitated, an automatic out of charge from

customs was given by the system. After out of charge, goods were

handed over to the employee of Importer at the gate of CFS Apollo

Logi solutions Limited. Later, it was informed by Dilip Shelar about

depositing of the goods the bonded warehouse, which was supported

by documents. Consequently, there was no doubt that the goods had

been deposited. The ld. Counsel mentioned that the others involved

have accepted their respective roles in the fraudulent diversion of

goods and none of them has stated name of the Appellant alleging any

connivance of the appellant in any manner whatsoever. It was

revealed that two persons namely Akshay Padhale, Warehouse

Operator and Mohammad Imran Ibrahim Shaikh were the mastermind

and that Mohammad Imran Ibrahim Shaikh had used the documents of

Sh. Amol Ghare in seeking IEC and KYC documents in the name of M/s

Tanu Trading. The manner of illicit activity had been admitted by

Akshay Padhale and Mohammed Imram Ibrahim Shaikh, in their

respective statements. The statements of Shri Kishor Ramchandra

Parhad, alias Shri Babu Wadkar, who had handed over the KYC and

import documents to the employee of the appellant and submitted the

fake warehousing certificate to the bond section of the

Commissionerate; Shri Babu B Ithape: Shri Shekhar S. Bodake, who

had visited CFS Apollo; Shri Sunil Dubey, driver of vehicle who had

transported the goods from CFS Apollo to the warehouse; Smt.

Tabassum Begum Shaikh, warehouse keeper of MTS Warehouse,

wherein 22 cartons were stored; Shri Akshay Phadale, who had 4 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

received the goods at the gate of CFS Apollo and carried the same to

the warehouse and obtained a fake warehousing certificate from the

keeper of the warehouse; Shri Sagar Bangar, the warehouse manager

of public bonded warehouse; Shri Amol Jalindar Ghare, proprietor of

Importer and Mohammad Imran Ibrahim Shaikh, who was beneficial

owner of the instant illicit goods have accepted their roles but none of

them have stated that the appellant had any knowledge about the

instant illegal diversion of the goods. 3.1 The Learned Counsel further submitted that the Commissioner

has given clear finding that Dilip Shelar was H-card Holder of the CB

and has attended the customs formalities however, has given adverse

finding that all customs formalities were not completed by him and it

has been held that one Babu Ithape has approached the dock officer

for clearance of the goods. It is submitted that the instant Bill of entry

was filed after obtaining Triple duty Bond with surety, duly executed

by the Importer, which was handled and submitted to the bond section

of the Commissionerate by Dilip Shelar, H-Card Holder. Further, the

bill of entry was registered under RMS informed vide ICEGATE's email

dated 12.12.2022 @ 7:05pm and no assessment and examination as

per RMS was prescribed for the consignment and therefore, the goods

were directly allowed for warehousing and Out of Charge was given on

13.12.2022 and after out of charge, goods were handed over to the

employee of Importer at the gate of CFS Apollo. It is pertinent to

mention here that CB's role was limited to only filing of the B/E and he

was not authorized by Importer to deposit of the goods in the

warehouse and thus, the employee of the importer i.e. Balu Ithape

collected the goods. Therefore, observation of Ld. Respondent that the 5 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

Appellant did not attend the customs clearance is perverse and

unreasoned. 3.2 The Learned Counsel further contended that the Regulation

10(d) stipulates that "a Customs, Broker shall advice his client to

comply with the provisions of the Act and in case of non-compliance,

shall bring the matter to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner of

Customs or Assistant Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be".

It has been wrongly held that the Appellant did not advice the importer

about requirement of NOC from drug controller for import for home

consumption. The warehousing Bill of entry for re-export purpose was

filed as there was no NOC by the Drug Controller at the time of

Import. However, when NOC from the Competent Authority was duly

available at the ICEGATE, the Appellant submitted the copy of Release

Order status print out pertaining to the B/E No.3673416 dated

09.12.2022 from ICEGATE. The Ld. Counsel contended that the same

was rejected by the adjudicating authority on the ground that "the

appellant neither produced the said NOC before the Investigating

Authorities nor did he produce the same before the Inquiry Officer. As

there has been no evidence that the appellant was involved, hence,

the confirmation of violation of Regulation 10(d) was wrong and

unsustainable. 3.3. The Ld. counsel for the appellant further submitted that the

appellant had filed warehousing bill of entry for re-export purpose, as

whenever goods are found to be restricted in nature or lack some

compliance to Customs Act or Regulations, the goods can be re-

exported back to the same supplier or to a third country. Thus, for

such process, the goods are filed under warehouse on triple duty bond 6 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

and when the importer has found a foreign buyer, a shipping bill is

filed to that extent. In the same manner, the Warehousing Bill of Entry

No. 3673416 dated 09.12.2022 was filed by the Appellant and "For re-

export Purpose" was mentioned against all item entries. There is no

separate bill of entry for re-export and thus, warehousing bill of entry

is only filed of re-export purpose. Further, as the importer had not

found a third country buyer, no shipping bills was filed in this regard.

Therefore, the allegation pertaining to violation of Regulation 10(d) is

completely baseless and whimsical and needs to be set-aside.

3.4 Learned counsel further contended that as regards the Regulation 10(n) of the CBLR, 2018, the Appellant had duly verified

the antecedent and correctness of IEC, KYC documents, GST and other

documents of the clients from government's official websites before

taking up the assignment of clearance of the goods. Further, there is

no requirement of physical verification of the importer by the CB under

CBLR, 2018. He further contended that neither the SCN nor the

impugned order has alleged that the Appellant had the knowledge of

said activity and therefore, any contravention which has occurred after

the clearance of the goods cannot be attributed to the CB thus, no

violation of CBLR, 2018 can be invoked in such cases.

3.5 Learned counsel further submitted that there is a finding that

the appellant might have been cheated by the H-card holder, but only

because there was alleged delayed response to the customs, does not

form a ground for revocation of CB license, as there is no finding that

the Appellant in connivance with Dilip Shelar has acted in this manner.

Moreover, the diversion of goods took place on 13.12.2022 right after

clearance and the cancellation of H-card has not affected the said 7 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

investigation in any manner. Therefore, the said finding is vague and

ambiguous and cannot be assailed to sustain revocation CB license. In

support of, learned counsel relied upon the following judgements:- 4. Learned Authorized Representative for the Department

supported the impugned order and submitted as under:- (iii). Regulation 10(n) Non-Compliance: The Learned AR

submitted that the appellant failed to verify the correctness of the

Importer Exporter Code (IEC) number, Goods and Services Tax

Identification Number (GSTIN), and identity of the client using reliable,

independent, authentic documents, data, or information, as mandated

by Regulation 10(n) . The Customs Broker's lack of physical verification

of the importer and reliance on third parties for KYC documents

demonstrated non-compliance with Regulation 10(n) . 5. Learned AR further contended that the Customs Broker's actions

in the instant case revealed a failure to fulfill the obligations mandated

under Regulations 10(b), 10(d), and 10(n) of the Customs Brokers

Licensing Regulations, 2018. Despite evidence of violations, the

appellant attempted to defend their actions, but contradictions in

statements and evidence raised doubts about the appellant's credibility

and compliance. The purpose of granting a license to a customs broker

is to ensure responsible and compliant conduct while facilitating import

and export transactions, which the CB failed to uphold in this case.

Overall, the department argues that the CB's actions amounted to

serious violations of customs regulations, compromising the integrity

of the customs clearance process and necessitating appropriate 9 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

disciplinary action. In support of his submissions, learned AR relied

upon the following decisions:- 6. We have heard the Ld Counsel and the Ld AR for the department

and perused the case records. The issue before us is whether the

alleged violations are serious and require revocation of the CB license. 7. The impugned order has revoked the CB licence holding that Regulation 10(b) (partial) , 10(d) and 10(n) of the CBLR, 2018 have

been violated. 8. As regards the partial violation of Rule 10(b), we note that the

impugned order holds that by allowing Sh Babu Ithape to approach the

Docks officer for examination of goods, the appellant had intentionally

or unintentionally run afoul of Regulation 10(b) of CBLR. In this

context, we note that the Ld. Counsel submitted that the appellant's

role was limited to only filing of the B/E and he was not authorized by

Importer to deposit of the goods in the warehouse and thus, the

employee of the importer i.e. Balu Ithape collected the goods. We note

that Imran Ibrahim Shaikh in his statement dated 1.6.23 has admitted

that the appellant CB was not attending the further customs clearance

6 2009 (244) ELT 562
7 2016-TIOL-13-SC-CUS
8 2018 (360) ELT 60 (Raj.)
9 2009 (239) ELT 407 (Del.)
10 2019 (369) ELT 1739 (Tri.-Delhi) 10 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

formalities, hence the documents were handed over to Babu Ithape for

clearance. This statement corresponds with what the appellant has

submitted. A plain reading of the said Regulation, it is apparent that

the Customs Broker is required to transact the business at the

Customs Station either personally or through his authorized employer.

That requirement stands fulfilled as Sh Dilip Shelar, who handled the

documents was an employer of the appellant. Further, it has been

submitted that his responsibility ended with filing of documents which

stands corroborated by the statement of Imran Sheikh. Hence, the

conclusion arrived at by the adjudicating authority that the appellant

has unintentionally or intentionally violated 10(b) is not correct.

Consequently, we hold that there is no violation of Regulation 10(b) . 8. Regulation 10(n) requires the CB to advise his client to comply

with the provisions of the Act, other Allied Acts and rules and any non-

compliance would have to be reported to the Assistant/Deputy

Commissioner of Customs. The impugned order notes that NoC was

required from the Drug Controller and a declaration under Rule 19 of

the Cosmetics Rules, 2020, which the CB did not advise his client at

the time of import of the goods viz., Cosmetics. The Ld Counsel has

submitted before us that the importer had been advised regarding the

requirement of the NoC and it is on record that the said NoC was

subsequently obtained from the Competent authority. It was further

submitted that the goods had been released based on the said NoC.

We find that the appellant had filed the Bill of Entry for Warehouse for

re-export purpose, as is evident from the copy submitted before us.

This clearly evidences that the appellant was aware that as the NoC 11 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

was not available for the imported goods, hence the goods could not

be cleared for home consumption. It has also been submitted before

us that subsequently, the said goods were released as the NoC for all

the 133 items imported vide the said Bill of Entry. Further, we take

note of the fact that the said Release Order was received from the

Competent Authority after the personal hearing held by the Inquiry

Officer appointed under CBLR, 2018 It is on record that the goods had

received the required NoC. The impugned order has concluded that the

appellant was not clear whether the B/E had been filed under Section

69 or Section 59 of the Customs Act. This cannot be the reason for

revoking the CB license. The appellant filed the B/E as per procedure

and same has been subsequently cleared by the Customs Department.

We note that as per section 146 of the Customs Act, the role of a

Customs Broker is related to the business of import or export of the

goods. The obligation of the appellant was only to facilitate clearance

of goods for warehousing at the Customs port. Admittedly, the

appellant was not responsible for the deposition of the goods to the

warehouse. We also note that the persons controlling the importer firm

had acted on their own accord to defraud the revenue, and there is no

allegation or evidence that the appellant had advised or aided their

nefarious activity. In this context, we take support of the Supreme

Court's judgment in Collector of Customs, Cochin vs Trivandrum

Rubber Works Ltd. , [1999 -2-SC 553] wherein the Hon'ble Court held

that the Customs Broker is an agent for only limited purpose of

arranging release of goods and once the goods are cleared, he has no

further function and he is not liable for any action of the importer. 12 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

Accordingly, we find that there was no violation of Regulation 10(n) of

CBLR, 2018. 9. We find that the impugned order has also held that the appellant

had violated Regulation 10(n) of the CBLR, 2018. It is an admitted fact

that the appellant submitted the KYC documents pertaining to the

importer such as IEC, GSTIN, Axis Bank letter regarding the AD code,

copy of the PAN and Aadhar card of the proprietor Importer. There is

nothing on record that these documents have been proved to be

fraudulent or fake. It has been repeatedly held that there is no legal

requirement of the CB to physically verify the premises and verification

of the government issued documents can be verified from the portal.

This has been done by the appellant. We note that the Delhi High

Court in a similar case, (CUSAA No. 2/2022) and vide judgment dated

25.09.2023 in the case of D S Cargo Agency vs Commissioner of

Customs, New Delhi , held as follows: (Emphasis supplied)

18.4. The Appellant has stated that there is no dispute that

importer firms exist and they have participated in the

investigation conducted by DRI. It is stated that the fact that

these firms are dummy firms which are controlled by third parties

was a fact which was not within the knowledge of the Appellant

while he was initially dealing with the said firms for clearance of

cargo; and was a fact which came to his knowledge subsequently

after the goods had already been cleared by the Customs Station.

18.5. Appellant also states that the reliance placed by the

Commissioner on the statement of Mr. Lalit Dongra is not justified

since the Aadhar Card which is alleged to have been forged has

not been placed on record. 19. A perusal of the written submissions filed by the Respondent

would show that the Respondents have found the Appellant

'negligent' in verifying the KYC documents of the importer firms

as he failed to obtain the requisite KYC documents and/or verify

the documents made available to him by the importer firms. 20. This Court has perused the record. In the facts of this case,

there is no allegation of impersonation in the name of importer 17 Customs Appeal No. 50251 Of 2024

 firms. The finding of DRI is that these importer firms were not

 being run and operated by the persons in whose name the

 importer firms were incorporated. The allegation is not that these

 firms are fictitious and do not exist. The finding is that these firms

 are being run and remotely controlled by Mr. Sanjeev Maggu and

 Mr. Ramesh Wadhera. The Regulation requires the Customs

 Broker to verify the identity of the client (i.e., importer

 firms) and in the facts of this case since the clients (i.e.,

 importer firms) exist as is evident from the functionality of

 the IEC (as discussed above), it is not possible to hold that

 there has been a blatant violation of this Regulation, which

 would justify the revocation of CB license." 10. In the instant case, the KYC documents submitted by the

appellant are all valid documents. There is no other requirement

under Regulation 10 (n) which remains to be fulfilled by the appellant. 11. In view of the above, we hold that the revocation of CB license

by the Customs authorities is not sustainable, and impugned order is

set aside with consequential benefit, if any. Accordingly, the appeal is

allowed. (Order pronounced in the open Court on 02.01.2025)

 (DR. RACHNA GUPTA)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

 (HEMAMBIKA R. PRIYA)
 MEMBER (TECHNICAL)
G.Y.