1. The Applicant has approached this Court, seeking
 anticipatory bail in connection with Crime No.453/2025 registered
 with Ambad Police Station, District Jalna for the offences
 punishable under Sections 316(4), 316(5), 318(4), 324(5), 336(3),
 338, 340(2), 339, 238, 3(5) of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 and Sections 52 and 53 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. 2. The First Information Report was filed by one Vilas
 Komatwar, stating that he had received a letter from the Sub
 Divisional Officer, Ambad, dated 18.08.2025. The letter informed
 him that the Three-Member Committee had submitted a report
 2 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

regarding the natural calamity compensation disbursement fraud
committed by accused persons at Ambad and Ghansavangi Taluka,
and authorized him to register an FIR against those found
responsible in the said report. 3. It is alleged that the State Government declared
compensation for farmers whose agricultural fields were affected by
natural calamities during the years 2022, 2023, and 2024,
including floods, heavy rainfall, unseasonal rainfall, drought, etc.,
to be disbursed to the affected farmers. Several complaints were
received at the Collector Office, Jalna, pertaining to the
disbursement of natural calamity compensation at the Tahsil Offices
of Ambad and Ghansavangi. The complaints mentioned the role of
the Village Revenue Officer, Gram Sevak, and Agricultural
Assistant, who allegedly colluded with each other to disburse
compensation to bogus farmers who were not eligible for such
benefits. In some cases, compensation was disbursed to farmers
who were not residents of the village, including villagers from
other Talukas and Districts. Agricultural fields of lesser
measurement were shown with inflated areas by forging the 7/12
extracts and by falsely showing fruit-bearing trees on barren land.
Some beneficiaries were allotted compensation twice. Taking into
consideration the aforesaid complaints, the Collector, Jalna, under
his supervision, formed a Three-Member Committee on 28.01.2025. 3 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

The said Committee conducted a detailed inquiry into the
complaints and submitted its report. In the FIR, 28 persons were
named, along with certain other unnamed persons who had acted
in collusion and misused the login ID of the Tahsildar and
committed fraud/misappropriation by disbursing compensation to
persons not entitled to receive the same. In some cases, even
Government lands were wrongly shown in forged 7/12 extracts of
villagers, thereby obtaining disaster relief compensation through
conspiracy by all the accused persons acting together thereby
cheating the Government. . Apart from the aforesaid two talukas, Ambad and
Ghansavangi, six Revenue Officers of the Tahsil Office, Ambad,
were also named who have colluded with the Village Revenue
Officer/Talathi and certain bogus beneficiaries, conspiring to
commit misappropriation with the intention of causing wrongful
loss to the Government and wrongful gain to themselves, thereby
cheating the Government. One of the Revenue Officers in the
Collector Office, Jalna, namely Mr. Dinesh Barad, was held
responsible for misusing the login ID and password of the
Tahsildar, Ambad. He allegedly connived with the other accused
persons and further provoked and instigated them to commit the
said crime. It is also alleged in the FIR that after getting
knowledge that an inquiry was being conducted into the fraud
committed in the disbursement of natural calamity compensation,
 4 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

the accused persons destroyed the necessary evidence and the files
in the computers maintained by the Officers were deleted, which
could have assisted to prove their guilt. The three email ID's of
the Tahasil Office namely [email protected] ; [email protected] and [email protected] were tampered
with by all accused persons and thereafter the evidence were
destroyed. . Thus the aforesaid 28 persons and others are found to
have committed the misappropriation to the tune of
Rs.24,90,77,811/- by forging the documents and cheating the
Government and thereafter destroying the evidence. The
complainant therefore prayed for appropriate action against all the
accused persons. Thus the present FIR alleges that the
Talathis/Revenue Officers, Gram Sevaks, and Agricultural Assistants
caused wrongful loss to the Government and wrongful gain to
themselves by fabricating certain documents, inserting bogus names
of farmers, and disbursing compensation amounts to such bogus
farmers. The FIR further alleges that compensation was transferred
to fake and ineligible beneficiaries. 4. Heard the learned Counsel Mr. Salunke alongwith
Assisting Counsel and the learned Government Pleader Mr. Girase. I
have gone through the documents relied upon by the learned
Counsel for the Applicant and also gone through the investigation
 5 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

papers made available by the learned Government Pleader. 5. It is the submission of the learned Counsel for the
Applicant that the Applicant was issued a show cause notice for
alleged misappropriation of amount of Rs. 11,76,627/-. The final
report of the Three-Member Committee would itself show that the
Applicant has assisted the Committee to recover the amount of
Rs.8,91,612/-. The Applicant has thus assisted the Inquiry
Committee and only an amount of Rs. 2,85,015/- is remained to be
recovered at the instance of the Applicant for the villages where
the Applicant was working as Talathi. The Applicant has also
annexed the receipts of the amount paid back to the Government.
The Applicant has cooperated with the Inquiry Committee and is
further ready to cooperate with the Investigating Officer. Thus the
custodial interrogation of the Applicant is not necessary. The
Applicant is a Government Servant, not a flight risk, and there is
no possibility of his fleeing from the ends of justice. The Applicant
is a responsible Government Officer and is ready to cooperate with
the investigation. The Applicant is a Field Officer who was
entrusted with the task of preparing a list, which was thereafter to
be uploaded by higher officers such as the Talathi, and the final
amount was to be disbursed by the Collector, Jalna. The Applicant
is not a beneficiary of the amount, and hence it cannot be said
that he has misappropriated Government funds allocated for
 6 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

compensation to farmers. The farmers, i.e., the alleged fake
beneficiaries, have not been made accused, even though the
amounts were transferred into their accounts. The Investigating
Officer is conducting the investigation, and the Applicant shall
remain available for further investigation as and when required by
the Investigating Officer. The Applicant shall available for further
investigation if required by the Investigating Officer. The custodial
interrogation of the Applicant is not necessary, and therefore the
Applicant may be released on bail. 6. As against this, the learned Government Pleader strongly
opposes the application on the ground that, although an amount of
Rs.8,91,712/- is stated to have been recovered, a further sum of
Rs. 1,55,138/- is yet to be recovered at the instance of the
present Applicant out of Rs.10,46,850/-. The amount involved is
substantial and pertains to Government funds earmarked for
disbursement to farmers in distress due to crop damage caused by
natural calamities such as shortfall of rainfall and other related
catastrophes. Hence, this is not a fit case for grant of anticipatory
bail to the Applicant. 7. I have gone through the investigation papers which show
that the villagers namely Yogesh Gavhane and others have stated
about the role of the present Applicant who have asked them to
 7 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

submit necessary documents for obtaining compensation even
though they were not entitled to receive the compensation. The
Gram Panchayat of village Karanjala shows that 15 of such
beneficiaries who were not even residents of the Village Karanjala,
however still their names were included in the list of beneficiaries.
The Applicant has uploaded names of fake beneficiaries by sending
the same to the concerned official at Tahsil office, Ambad via
Whatsapp. The Applicant has failed to cooperate with the Inquiry
Committee, as the Applicant did not give names of persons
involved in the whole scam. The Applicant has obtained the names
of labours and unemployed persons from various villages prepared
fake Aadhar Card and asked them to open account in the SBI and
has used the same to draw benefits of the compensation by asking
villagers to pay him commission out of the compensation when
received. The amount involved is huge and requires investigation
from various aspects. The Applicant has committed the said crime
conspiring with the other accused persons of the Tahsil Office and
as well as the office of Collector Jalna. Particularly Mr. Birad who
had misused the login ID of the Tahsildar to upload the names of
fake beneficiaries. The statements of Arun Pathade and others
recorded by the Investigating Officer reveal that, despite not
possessing any agricultural fields, the Applicant compelled them to
furnish documents such as Aadhaar Cards, and thereafter prepared
bogus 7/12 extracts and fabricated residence certificates to falsely
 8 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

show that they had suffered crop damages. The Gram Panchayat of
Karanjala has indicated that 15 villagers obtained fraudulent
compensation papers, while another 15 persons were not even
residents of the village. The Applicant forwarded a list on
WhatsApp to the concerned officials for inclusion of such fake
beneficiaries, which clearly demonstrates his involvement in the
crime. 8. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Y.S. Jagan
Mohan Reddy v. Central Bureau of Investigation , (2013) 7 SCC 439 and

in the case of Tarunkumar Vs. Assistant Director Directorate of
Enforcement, 2023 NSC 1006, was pleased to hold that the
economic offences constitute a class apart and need to be visited
with a different approach in the matter of bail. The economic
offences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of
public funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as a grave
offences affecting the economy of the country as a whole and
thereby posing serious threat to the financial health of the country. 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Nimmagadda
Prasad vs C.B.I., Hyderabad , (2013) 7 SCC 466, has held as under : 10. The Applicant in connivance with all other accused
persons has allegedly committed the misappropriation to the tune
of Rs.25 Crores by using login ID of Tahsildar with the assistance
of other accused persons. The statements recorded by the
Investigating Officer during the course of investigation reveals the
role of the present Applicant to be a prime suspect in the crime.
The custodial interrogation of the Applicant would be thus
necessary. Some of the amount initially shown as misappropriated
by the Inquiry Committee has been allegedly recovered by the
Applicant. However the investigation shows that the amount of
misappropriation is likely to increase as the investigation is still
going and the statements of the bogus farmers are being recorded.
Thus there is every likelihood that the Applicant if released on
bail, may cause prejudice to the investigation.
. Thus taking into consideration the gravity and nature of
economic offence, the Three Member Committee's report and the
 10 11.ABA-1680-2025.doc

investigation papers which include statements of various
beneficiaries, I am not inclined to exercise the discretion in favour
of the present Applicant to grant anticipatory bail. The application
is therefore rejected. MEHROZ K. PATHAN
 JUDGE

Najeeb..