1. This petition has been filed under Section 438 Cr.P.C., seeking grant
of anticipatory bail in FIR No. 668/2020 dated 31.10.2020 registered at P.S.
Moti Nagar under Sections 376 / 328 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
(hereinafter, " IPC "). 2. The facts, in brief, leading up to this petition are as follows: 3. Mr. N. Hariharan, learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner, has
submitted that charge-sheet has been filed without arrest of the petitioner. He
further states that proceedings under Section 82 Cr.P.C have not been
initiated against the petitioner. He states that after charge-sheet was filed,
apprehending arrest, at the time of his appearance before the Court, the
petitioner filed an application under Section 438 Cr.P.C before the Trial
Court. He states that the Trial Court has dismissed the application primarily
because the petitioner had not joined investigation on time. He states that
once charge-sheet was filed and investigation was complete qua the
petitioner, the Trial Court could not have dismissed the application of the
petitioner for anticipatory bail primarily on the ground that the petitioner had
not joined the investigation. His presence could have been ensured after
rejecting his application for exemption from appearance or by issuing a
bailable warrant. 4. Mr. Hariharan further submits that the prosecution story is false and BAIL APPLN. 679/2021 Page 3 of 11 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:01.02.2022 10:26 concocted. He has argued that the instant matter is a classic case of honey-
trap and that the prosecutrix and her husband have been previously involved
in a similar case. He has informed this Court that one Manish Tanwar had
also been similarly trapped in this manner by the prosecutrix and her
husband who only sought to extort money from their victims by lodging
false complaints of sexual assault. He has informed this Court that in that
matter, a hand-written complaint of rape against Manish Tanwar had been
given to the police on 10.07.2020, but no FIR had been lodged. 5. The learned Senior Counsel has submitted that in Manish Tanwar's
case, Rs. 50 lacs had been demanded from him by the prosecutrix and her
husband for the matter to be settled. It has been stated that on settlement, the
prosecutrix did not undergo medical examination and even gave in writing to
the SHO, P.S. Kapashera that she was retracting her complaint regarding
allegations of rape on the ground that she had filed the same in a fit of anger. 6. Mr. N. Hariharan has submitted that pursuant to an Order of this Court
dated 23.09.2020 in Kapil Gupta v. State, (BAIL APPLN. 2813/2020), a
Circular dated 10.11.2020 had been issued by the Commissioner of Police
with regard to cases of honey-trap wherein it had directed Investigating
Officers to take utmost care while investigating such cases without harassing
the accused persons and to check the credentials of the Complainant(s), if
any doubt regarding the veracity of their allegations arose. The learned
Senior Counsel has argued that despite this Circular and despite the
Petitioner having raised this issue before the Ld. Trial Court, the Ld. Trial
Court dismissed the anticipatory bail application of the Petitioner herein. It
has further been argued that the prosecutrix functioned in connivance with
the Kapashera Police Station as no FIR was registered in pursuance of the BAIL APPLN. 679/2021 Page 4 of 11 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:01.02.2022 10:26 written complainant of the prosecutrix given to P.S. Kapashera even though
the complaint disclosed the commission of a cognizable offence. 7. The learned Senior Counsel has submitted that a perusal of the CDR
of all the parties involved discloses that the prosecutrix is resorting to false
statements and is concocting the whole story, and that there are multiple
contradictions in the statements of the prosecutrix. He has brought the
attention of this Court to the fact that the FIR was not registered initially,
and it was only after the Petitioner and his family did not pay the money
demanded by the prosecutrix and her husband that the present FIR was
registered. He has further submitted that the Petitioner has cooperated with
the investigation and as chargesheet has already been filed, there exists no
reason to arrest him at this juncture, and therefore, the NBWs issued against
the Petitioner should be stayed. He further states that after this Court granted
protection to the petitioner vide order dated 01.03.2021, the petitioner had
been regularly appearing in all the hearings in the Court. 8. Per contra, Ms. Richa Kapoor, learned ASC for the State, has
submitted that the Petitioner has joined the investigation and his mobile was
also analyzed. However, the prosecutrix had failed to provide her mobile and
stated that her mobile had been broken by the husband. She has submitted
that the CDR reveals that both the parties would frequently talk to each
other. The learned ASC has further stated that after completion of the
investigation, the chargesheet was filed against the Petitioner without his
arrest, and that it was only when the Petitioner failed to appear before the
Ld. M.M. that NBWs were issued against him. 9. Ms. Kapoor has submitted that the Ld. Trial Court has already
dismissed an application seeking anticipatory bail filed by the Petitioner BAIL APPLN. 679/2021 Page 5 of 11 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:01.02.2022 10:26 herein and that further investigation remains pending against another
accused named by the prosecutrix, and that a supplementary chargesheet will
be filed in due course. The learned ASC has stated that with regard to the
averment that on an earlier occasion, the prosecutrix had made the same
allegations against one Manish Tanwar, the same was true and that matter
had been compromised between the two parties. The learned ASC has
opposed the instant anticipatory bail application on the ground that
investigation pertaining to a complaint wherein the Petitioner has allegedly
threatened the prosecutrix is pending. 10. Furthermore, Ms. Kapoor has relied on Ramesh v. State through Dy.
RFO, (Criminal Petition No. 9975/2021) of the Karnataka High Court to
assert that once an accused has entered appearance before the Court and
thereafter on account of his absence on a later date, a warrant has been
issued by the said Court, then the remedy of anticipatory bail is not available
to such a person. 11. Ms. Malvika Trivedi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
Complainant, has also made her submissions and informed this Court that
the prosecutrix was threatened by the son of the Petitioner and that a
complaint was subsequently lodged by the prosecutrix dated 02.11.2020 at
PS Moti Nagar vide DD No. 123. Subsequent complaints have also been
given, however, no action was taken and this drove the prosecutrix to move
an application before the Ld. M.M. calling for the status report. Ms. Trivedi
has submitted that the story of the Petitioner that the instant matter is a case
of honey-trap is false and it is only a means to discredit the prosecutrix and
her allegations. The learned Senior Counsel has submitted that the life of the
prosecutrix is in danger in view of the constant threats being levelled by the BAIL APPLN. 679/2021 Page 6 of 11 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:01.02.2022 10:26 Petitioner and his family. 12. Heard Mr. N. Hariharan, learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner,
Ms. Richa Kapoor, learned ASC for the State, Ms. Malvika Trivedi, learned
Senior Counsel for the Complainant/prosecutrix, and perused the material on
record. 13. At the outset, it would be pertinent to note that the Supreme Court has
laid down guidelines pertaining to cases wherein chargesheet has been filed
without the arrest of the accused. In Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau
of Investigation , (2021) 10 SCC 773, the Supreme Court has observed that if
an accused has not been arrested during investigation and has cooperated
throughout in the investigation, including appearing before the investigating
officer whenever called, then certain guidelines must be adhered to while
considering the grant of bail. The guidelines have been reproduced as under: (No need to forward such an accused along with the
 charge-sheet Siddharth v. State of
 U.P. [Siddharth v. State of U.P., (2022) 1 SCC 676] )
 Category A
 After filing of charge-sheet/complaint taking of
 cognizance (a) Ordinary summons at the 1st instance/including
 permitting appearance through lawyer. (b) If such an accused does not appear despite service of
 summons, then bailable warrant for physical appearance
 may be issued. (c) NBW on failure to appear despite issuance of bailable
 warrant. (d) NBW may be cancelled or converted into a bailable
 warrant/summons without insisting physical appearance
 of the accused, if such an application is moved on behalf
 of the accused before execution of the NBW on an
 undertaking of the accused to appear physically on the
 next date/s of hearing. (e) Bail applications of such accused on appearance may
 be decided without the accused being taken in physical
 custody or by granting interim bail till the bail
 application is decided. Category B/D
 On appearance of the accused in court pursuant to
 process issued bail application to be decided on merits. Category C
 Same as Categories B and D with the additional
 condition of compliance of the provisions of bail under
 NDPS ( Section 37 ), Section 45 of the PMLA, Section
 212(6) of the Companies Act, Section 43-D(5) of the
 UAPA, POCSO, etc." (emphasis supplied) 14. In the instant case, the Petitioner has been accused of offences under BAIL APPLN. 679/2021 Page 8 of 11 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:01.02.2022 10:26 Section 376 / 328 IPC, which entails a punishment that shall not be less than
seven years, but may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable
to fine. Therefore, as per the aforesaid judgement, for consideration of a bail
application for an accused who falls under Category B, the accused must
appear in court pursuant to process issued and the said bail application must
be decided on merits. Further, the Supreme Court has also clarified that if
during the course of investigation, there has been no cause to arrest the
accused, merely because a chargesheet is filed, would not be an ipso facto
cause to arrest the accused. 15. In light of the above, this Court directs the Ld. Trial Court to
reconsider the matter pertaining to the issuance of impugned NBW in view
of the fact that the chargesheet was filed without the arrest of the Petitioner
herein. The case is coming up for hearing on 02.02.2022. Interim protection
from arrest is granted to the petitioner till 02.02.2022. 16. During the proceedings, this Court was apprised of the fact that a
similar complaint had been instituted by the prosecutrix/Complainant herein
before P.S. Kapashera wherein she had levelled allegations of sexual assault
against one Manish Tanwar. However, no FIR was registered in that case and that matter had been put to rest on the basis of a compromise which had
been arrived at between the parties therein. This Court notes that non-
registration of an FIR in the event that the commission of a cognizable
offence is disclosed goes against the law laid down by the Supreme Court in
Lalita Kumari v. Government of Uttar Pradesh and Ors. (2008) 7 SCC 164. Furthermore, it has been time and again held by the Supreme Court that
cases involving the offence of rape cannot be settled on the basis of a
compromise (See State of M.P. v. Madanlal , (2015) 7 SCC 681). 17. Furthermore, a perusal of the record indicates that the medical
examination of the prosecutrix/Complainant in relation to FIR No. 668/2020
was conducted before the registration of the FIR but the MLC was
conducted on the basis of DD Entry bearing No.4A. This raises the suspicion
that the instant FIR had not been registered at the time it was alleged to have
been registered. This adds weight to the submission of the learned Senior
Counsel for the Petitioner that there has been possible manipulation of the
instant FIR and the Police was attempting to settle the case. This Court,
therefore, directs for a vigilance inquiry to be conducted by the Deputy
Commissioner of Police, Vigilance, into: 18. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Vigilance, Delhi Police, is
directed to submit a report on the aforesaid queries within a period of two
months from the date of this Order. 19. In view of the above discussions, the order dated 23.02.2021 is set
aside and the learned Trial Court is directed to consider as to whether the
custody of the petitioner is required post filing of the chargesheet in the light
of the judgement passed by the Supreme Court in Satender Kumar Antil v.
Central Bureau of Investigation , (2021) 10 SCC 773. 20. With the above observations, this petition is disposed of, along with
pending application(s), if any. SUBRAMONIUM PRASAD, J. JANUARY 31, 2022
Rahul BAIL APPLN. 679/2021 Page 11 of 11 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:RAHUL SINGH Signing Date:01.02.2022 10:26