ANU MALHOTRA, J. 1. The petitioner Swami Ramdev through his GPA holder Jaideep
Arya, S/o Om Prakash vide the present petitions CM(M) 556/2018
and CM (M) No. 557/2018 assails the impugned orders dated CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 2 of 211 28.4.2018 and 28.4.2018 of the learned Addl. Senior Civil Judge,
East District in MCA No.08/2017 and in MCA No.10/2017, filed by
Ms.Priyanka Pathak Narain (hereinafter referred to as the Author) and
M/s Juggernaut Books Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as the
Publisher) respectively in the appeals under Order XLIII Rule 1(r) of
the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908, as amended, of the BOOK
―Godman to Tycoon-The Untold Story of Baba Ramdev‖, ISBN
No.9789386228383 (hereinafter referred to as ‗the BOOK‟) having
been filed by the author (Ms.Priyanka Pathak Narain) and M/s
Juggernaut Books Private Limited, the publisher of the BOOK
respectively, against the orders of the learned Trial Court of the ACJ-
CCJ-ARC (East) in CS No.619/2017 in the suit instituted by Swami
Ramdev through the GPA holder against Ms.Priyanka Pathak Narain
the author of the BOOK herein named above. M/s Juggernaut Books
Private Limited (the Publisher), M/s Amazon India, M/s Flipkart
Internet Private Limited and M/s Manipal Technologies Limited,
arrayed as defendants No. 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 to the said suit respectively
with the prayers made therein to the effect: with the direction that M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. (Publisher) was CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 5 of 211 restrained from publishing and selling the BOOK titled as ‗Godman
to Tycoon' bearing ISBN No. 978-93-8622-838-3 till further orders
and that the defendants No.3 and 4 M/s.Amazon India and M/s.
Flipkart Internet Pvt. Limited were restrained from selling the BOOK
till further orders and any pending delivery of the BOOK to the buyer
was directed to be stopped immediately and the defendant No.2 M/s
Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. (Publisher) was directed to issue
directions to the vendors to prevent the sale of the BOOK till further
orders of the Court and it was directed further that the said directions
were to be issued by the defendant No.2 M/s Juggernaut Books
(Publisher) by way of a public notice or any other effective means for
conveying it to all. It was also held vide order dated 4.8.2017 of the
learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC that the said order had been made without
notice of the application filed by the plaintiff i.e., the present
petitioner on his application seeking grant of an injunction because the
object of granting the injunction would be defeated by the delay
which would be caused during the process of serving the notice and
hearing the defendants. 3. Vide order dated 27.9.2017 of the learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC, the
applications under Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 CPC of the plaintiff, i.e.,
the present petitioner, and the application under Order XXXIX Rule 4
CPC filed by the defendants no.1 and 2, i.e., Ms. Priyanka Pathak
Narain and M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. (publisher) were disposed
of with the application under Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 filed by the
plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner, having been allowed and a CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 6 of 211 temporary injunction was granted against the defendants of the said
suit as directed vide order dated 4.8.2017 in as much as the direction
that the defendants had been restrained from publishing and selling
the BOOK was reiterated with the contents of the order dated
4.8.2017 having been directed to be part of the order dated 27.9.2017.
The application filed by the defendant Nos.1 and 2 i.e., Ms. Priyanka
Pathak Narain and M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. seeking vacation
of the injunction order dated 4.8.2017 was however dismissed. 4. The appeals against the order dated 27.9.2017 i.e. MCA
No.8/17 filed by the author Ms.Priyanka Pathak Narain and MCA No.
10/17 filed by M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. against the order dated
27/9/2017 of the ACJ-CCJ-ARC East in suit No. 619/2017 were
allowed by the ASCJ (East) and the directions of the ACJ-CCJ-ARC
(East) dated 4.8.2017 and 27.9.2017 were set aside to the extent that
the preservation/ban imposed on the publication and selling of the
BOOK. 5. Vide the order dated 10.5.2018 in the present petitions whilst
issuing notice of the petition to the respondent, a prima facie case for
an ad interim protection by restraintment of the setting aside of the
temporary injunction granted by the Trial Court was held to be made
out, it having been observed that if there was no protection granted, it
would have the potential of resulting in an irreparable loss in
reputation of the petitioner and the temporary injunction granted by
the ACJ-CCJ-ARC(East) was restored against the respondent till the
next date of hearing which was scheduled as 9.8.2018. 6. The publisher M/s Juggernaut Books Private Limited and the
author Ms. Priyanka Pathak Narian being aggrieved vide order dated
10.5.2018 in CM(M) 556/2018 and 557/2018 assailed the said order
dated 10.5.2018 vide petitions in SLP(Civil) No.19050-19053/2018
before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and whilst calling upon this Court
to dispose of the petitions CM(M) No.556/2018 and 557/2018 by the
end of September, 2018 in view of the submissions made on behalf of
the respondents, herein it was directed that whilst disposing of the
Main Civil Revision, the High Court , i.e., this Court should not be
influenced by the observations made with regard to the interim order
and it was directed vide order dated 23.07.2018 by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court to the effect: It is averred further that the degree was presented to him in a
ceremony presided over by the respected scientist and Nobel Laureate
Richard Ernst. It is further mentioned that the Yoga camps organized
by the petitioner attract large number of people from all walks of life
in India and all over the world and that in 2017, on the third edition of
the World Yoga Day over three lakh people attended the said event
led by the Petitioner at GMDC grounds Ahmedabad, Gujarat which
was the largest yoga event ever organized. 10. The petitioner further submits that the BOOK written by
Ms.Priyanka Pathak Narain and published by the respondent No.2 M/s
Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. is an unauthorized biography on the life of
the petitioner and has been published by the respondent no.2 and that CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 10 of 211 the same contains false and defamatory material which has been
written without any knowledge or consent of the Petitioner and
without verification of facts. It is further submitted that the BOOK is
extremely defamatory in nature and also infringes upon the right to
privacy of the petitioner as the same contains material which pertains
to the private life of the petitioner and reputation which has been
recognized as a fundamental right. 11. The petitioner further submits that the respondent No.2
released/published the said defamatory BOOK on 29.7.2017 and that
on 1.8.2017 the petitioner through his followers and GPA holder
learnt about the release of the said BOOK and thus the petitioner
executed a GPA in the favour of the GPA holder. 12. The petitioner submits that the writings incorporated and the
publication of the said BOOK containing the stated defamatory
statements against the petitioner had been published with the sole
objective of lowering the name, image, esteem, reputation and
goodwill of the petitioner in the eyes of the common man in general
and that the contents of the said BOOK are not only wrong, false,
manipulated, misleading and per se defamatory, but are aimed to
prejudicially affect the name, reputation and goodwill of the petitioner
and further to stir a controversy in order to garner publicity for the
said BOOK. 13. The petitioner further submits that such a vilification
publication has since been deliberately intensified by the respondents CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 11 of 211 with the intention to defame and project the petitioner in a bad light.
The petitioner has excerpted certain portions of the BOOK as follows: (iii) At Page No. 113-114: The Respondent No. 1 has given false information in her
 book regarding the above-mentioned court proceedings. It
 has been projected as if the investigation was influenced
 and case file was being surreptitiously handled. However,
 as per the judicial records available, it is clearly evident
 that vide order dated 13.02.2013 the Hon'ble Court had
 duly accepted a Closure Report filed by the CBI. It is
 further submitted that the Respondent No. 1 has falsely
 projected that the complaint is still pending and no action
 has been taken since January 2015. The same is done by
 the Respondent No. 1 only with an intention to defame the
 Petitioner. It is relevant to point out that despite judicial
 records being publically available to the Respondents, CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 14 of 211 deliberately did not mention the same while authoring and
 publishing the book in question. (iv) At page no. viii
 "Ramdev's first serious falling out was with Karamveer
 Maharaj, his first mentor, the man who taught him how to
 teach yoga." (v) At page no. 70
 "As mentioned earlier, in 2003 Divya Pharmacy had
 abruptly changed the vaidya on its registration from Swami
 Yogananda to Sri Saty Pal Singh. Yogananda is said to
 have had a falling out with Ramdev's increasingly powerful
 enterprise but the reasons for this are still unknown. " 14. The petitioner thus submits that such imputations made by the
Respondent No. 1 are effectively projecting to the world at large that
the Petitioner is not a Sanyasi and has violated his vows by indulging
in greed for money and power. He submits that these statements have
been made falsely without being substantiated by any particulars and
constitute defamation as the said imputations made by the Respondent
No. 1 are clearly to harm the reputation of the Petitioner. It is stated
that the aforesaid allegations are made in a calculated manner in order
to bring disrepute to the Petitioner. The petitioner submits further that
false allegations have been made regarding fudging yoga camps and
that the allegations have only been made with an oblique motive to CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 15 of 211 defame the Petitioner and have been made in a calculated manner in
order to bring disrepute to the petitioner. 15. The petitioner has also referred to the observations at page 121
to 128 Chapter 18 ―The Astha Takeover‖ written in the said BOOK
submitting to the effect that there is no means to verify the story put
forth by the author. The petitioner submits that the author projected
that the petitioner took over the television Channel ―Aastha‖ in a
hostile manner and that the respondent No.1, i.e., the author, herself
admitted that there were no means to verify the story of ‗Mehtas''.
The petitioner further submits that vide Chapter 4 at Page No.38 the
observation therein,: ―But the ever-pragmatic, Ramdev understood
that refusal to accept discipleship could mean losing the ashram.‖ 16. The petitioner also placed reliance at page No.77 Chapter 11
―Old Mentor Exits‖ which reads as under : 17. The petitioner has further drawn the attention of the Court to
the objections made at page 39 which reads to the effect: 18. The petitioner also placed reliance on excerpts in various other
chapters in the BOOK which read to the effect as under: (xi) At page no. 54, Chapter 7: TV Star

 "From this point on, befriending government officials and
 politicians, both in and out of power, would become a
 trademark growth strategy of Baba Ramdev's." The petitioner thus contended that the author had further
 made assertions that the Petitioner is an unscrupulous
 businessman and has succeeded through creating
 connections with various government officials and political
 personalities. (xii) At page no. 64-65 Chapter 8: Friends in High
 Places

 "Politicians and businessmen were quick to sense the new
 power rising in Haridwar. They came bearing gifts, offers
 of friendship, proposals for alliances. Ramdev shrewdly
 recognized two people who could do the most for him- the
 colourful chief minister of Uttarakhand, Narayan Dutt
 Tiwari, and fellow Yadav and chief minister of Uttar
 Pradesh, Mulayam Singh-both ofwhom took him under
 their wing." (xiii) At page no. 95-96 Chapter 13: Enter Brinda Karat

 "...politicians across the country began speaking in his
 defense, it was difficult not to speculate: Were parties
 pledging allegiance to Ramdev because they were also
 sensing an opportunity for a political alliance? Were they CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 17 of 211 thinking: Stay on his right side today and he can swing
 voters for you tomorrow?" It is submitted that these assertions have been made by
 the Respondent No.l without any verification and without
 obtaining consent from the Petitioner, The aforesaid
 allegations have been made against the Petitioner with
 the sole intent to discredit the Petitioner in the eyes of his
 followers and public at large. (xv) At page 163, Chapter 22: CEO,

 "when Ramdev bullied Patra into joining Patanjali
 Ayurved Ltd..." However, on a reading of the same chapter it can be
 clearly seen that he joined the company on his own free
 will,

 (xvi) At Page 201: (xvii) Page: 202

 "All Ramdev's former allies, aides, supporters and
 mentors who had watched him rise hut has fallen by the
 wayside at some point seemed to have been waiting for a
 call like mine, from anyone, at all, asking them about
 their time with Ramdev. They were all ready to tell their
 stories." "For every negative event surrounding him, he
 has consistently yelled foul, always choosing to lay the
 blame at someone else's door." (xviii) Page 204-205: (xix) Page 206: (xx) At Page 208: 19. The petitioner submits that on a bare perusal of the contents of
the BOOK, it was evident that the respondents have deliberately
published the BOOK with a view to damage and tarnish the
reputation of the petitioner and that the respondent author has
authored and the publisher has and published defamatory, derogatory CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 20 of 211 and vexatious material about him intentionally despite the same being
false and untrue thus causing wrongful loss to the petitioner and gains
to the respondents. 20. The petitioner further submits that the right to reputation has
already been recognized as a fundamental right under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India and that the entire BOOK is based on
perceptions and interviews allegedly gathered from third parties
without any authorization & permission from the petitioner. The
petitioner thus submits that whatever is mentioned in the BOOK is
merely a surmise of what the respondent author has understood from
the alleged interviews. The petitioner further states that the BOOK
has been authored and published by the respondents without any
verification of the contents that have been allegedly sourced from
anonymous microscopic interviews, YouTube Videos and online
articles with the sole intent to discredit the petitioner in the eyes of his
followers and the public at large and thus the same cannot be allowed
to be made freely available for the public at large. 21. The petitioner has further submitted that the publisher M/s.
Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. through its author Priyanka Pathak Narain
has deliberately with a view to damage and tarnish the reputation of
the petitioner authored and published defamatory, derogatory and
vexatious material about him intentionally despite the same being
false and untrue thus causing wrongful loss to him and to his
reputation by quoting alleged interviews of other persons and also
relied upon on unverified news articles and it is sought to be
submitted by the petitioner that through the BOOK published by M/s. Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. false statements had been made that the
petitioner was responsible for not allowing the post-mortem of Mr.
Rajeev Dixit and that it is somehow associated with the petitioner but
that the medical record and death certificate of Mr. Rajeev Dixit
clearly stated that he had died because of a cardiac arrest. The
petitioner has submitted that these reports have never been challenged
nor is there any investigation pending before any authority and that
M/s. Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. has chosen to publish the false and
defamatory statements against him solely relying on interviews and
news articles and not the public records. 22. The petitioner has further submitted that the BOOK is
admittedly a biography by its author Priyanka Pathak Narain arrayed
as the respondent no. 1 to CM(M) 557/18 and arrayed as the
respondent no. 2 to CM(M) 556/18 and submits that the BOOK
contains various chapters of his personal life and thus before such
publication, consent ought to have been taken from him by and that
this fact was also evident from the authors' note which is to the
effect:- 23. The petitioner has further submitted that the publication by the
respondents no. 1 & 2 about the details of the personal life of the
petitioner without his consent and due authorization is a violation of
his fundamental right to the privacy and the reputation under Article
21 of the Constitution of India and that the said respondents i.e. M/s. Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. and Priyanka Pathak Narain have
incorrectly alleged that the information published about the petitioner
was completely verified and had sought to justify the contents of the
BOOK mentioned between pages 209 to 234 of the BOOK. The
petitioner further submits that the said BOOK has been authored and
published by the respondents without any verification of the contents
sources from unanimous interviews, YouTube videos and online
articles and the sources are the hearsay evidence and reliance would
not be placed upon them. 24. The petitioner further submits that the learned Trial Court of the
ACJ-CCJ-ARC(East) had rightly granted an ad interim injunction in
favour of the petitioner whereby restraining the respondents
publishing, distributing and selling the said BOOK and that the
application under Order 39 Rule 4 CPC that had been filed by the
respondents had also been declined appropriately vide order dated
27.09.2017 by the learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC (East) but that vide order
dated 28.04.2018 in MCA No. 8/2017 and MCA No. 10/2017 which
had been filed by the author and the publisher respectively, the
learned ASCJ-GJ erroneously set aside the order dated 04.08.2017
and 27.09.2017 of the learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC (East) in complete
disregard to the settled principles of law with regard to the writing of
unauthorized biographies and the right to privacy and reputation of an
individual. 25. It was further submitted by the petitioner that the respondents
have incorrectly alleged that the information published about the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 23 of 211 petitioner is derived from public records and have sought to justify the
contents of the BOOK by relying upon sources mentioned between
pages no. 209 to 234 of the BOOK. The petitioner submits that the
sources mentioned in the BOOK are in the nature of magazine and
newspaper publications, online articles, YouTube videos and some
unverified private interviews and that these sources are in the nature
of hearsay evidence and no reliance can be placed upon them in order
to establish the contents of the BOOK and that the same are
completely unconfirmed and inherently opinionated under Section 74 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which is reproduced to the effect : - 26. The petitioner further submits that the author has relied on
unverified personal interviews, around 139 online articles websites,
magazines, and around 39 YouTube Videos and only 15 official
documents and such reliance is completely misplaced on the basis of
which the publication has been done by M/s. Juggernaut Books Pvt.
Ltd. and the same cannot be treated as public records nor can the same
be accepted as legally admissible evidence. The petitioner has further CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 24 of 211 submitted that the mala fides of the respondents in authoring and
publishing these defamatory and false allegations is evident from their
refusal to refer to official documents that clearly belie their innuendos
and that it has been published by the respondents at pages 105, 110
and 113-114 of the offending publication that the petitioner had
something to do with the disappearance of Shankar Dev and that
subsequently the investigation into the incident was influenced by the
government due to which it is unclear from the public record as to
what happened thereafter and the petitioner submits that the
respondents no. 1 & 2 have mischievously and with an intent to
defame the petitioner not made any reference to order of the Special
Judicial Magistrate (CBI)/ACJM(I) Dehradun dated 13.02.2015
whereby the Magistrate after due application of mind has accepted the
closure report of the CBI thus belying all claims and innuendos
authored and published by the respondents no. 1 & 2. 27. It has also been submitted by the petitioner that it was not out
of place to mention that the same was freely and publicly available
much prior to the publication of the BOOK and the Respondents were
duty bound to report the same but have instead chosen to conceal it
with a view to create false allegations and suspicion on the Petitioner
and project a view that the investigation was somehow influenced and
the case file was being surreptitiously handled and that the Petitioner
was somehow responsible for the disappearance of Swami Shankar
Dev. 28. The petitioner further submits that the respondents had made
false allegations while presenting even official documents so as to CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 25 of 211 raise an aura of suspicion and that it was mentioned at page 70 of the
offending publication by the respondents that the petitioner had
something to do with the murder of Swami Yogananda and that the
petitioner further submits that it had been represented as if the
Investigating Officer had filed some variety of an extra-ordinary
report by stating that the perpetrators were unknown and that there
was mischief by the respondent no. 1 with the sole intention of
creating an aura of suspicion so as to defame the petitioner in not
clarifying that such reports are called ‗Untrace Reports' which are
common place. 29. The petitioner further submits that the mala fides of the
respondents in authoring and publishing these defamatory and false
allegations is evident from the fact that the allegations and
insinuations are baseless and there is no material to support them and
that there are no materials to support in relation to the innuendo that
the petitioner has friends in high places and has been benefiting from
political largesse, published at Page 64- 65, 95-96, 145-146 and 204-
206 of the offending publication putting forward that there has been
no impropriety in the relationship of the petitioner with any political
figure, past or present, and no aspect of his relationship has ever been
called into question by investigation. The petitioner further submits
that the petitioner had approached the court as soon as the contents of
the BOOK in question came to the knowledge of the petitioner in as
much as the BOOK was launched on 29.07.2017 and the suit was
filed on 03.08.2017 and the the Ld. ACJ had granted an ex parte
injunction in favour of the petitioner on 04.08.2017. 30. The petitioner further submits that he had no prior knowledge
of the release of the BOOK as the respondents had never sought any
consent from him. The petitioner further submits that after the order
dated 28.04.2018, the respondent No.l in order to leave no stone
unturned to defame and further cause irreparable loss and injury to
him had started distributing the BOOK in question for free on its
Website and Mobile Application till 01.05.2018 as per the knowledge
of the petitioner and that thereafter, the respondents in continuation of
their nefarious designs are selling the BOOK at Rs. 50/- as compared
to the M.R.P. of Rs. 300/- printed on the BOOK itself with the sole
intention of increasing the circulation of the BOOK in order to
defame him. 31. Through the written submissions that had been submitted on
behalf of the author before the learned Trial Court, it was submitted
that the author stood by the BOOK and categorically asserted that
nothing contained therein is false and all statements made in the
BOOK can be justified and that the BOOK has been written with
journalistic objectivity in a fair and impartial, manner and in good
faith for public good. The author emphatically submitted that nothing
contained in the BOOK was defamatory to Plaintiff and submitted
that the BOOK has to be read as a whole and stray sentences cannot
be picked out whilst determining whether a work such as the BOOK
is defamatory or not. The author further submitted that the entire
BOOK is fully protected amongst others under Article 19(l)(a) of the
Constitution of India guaranteeing freedom of speech and expression
to all citizens and the grant of reliefs claimed in the plaint will CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 27 of 211 infringe the freedom of profession and occupation of the author
guaranteed under Article 19(l)(g) of the Constitution of India as a
journalist and a writer. The author further submitted that the question
of freedom of speech and expression involved, in the instant case was
not only of the author or of the parties to the instant case but also of
the thousands of others (of their right to read and right to know) who
are not party to the present suit, and who may eventually be deprived
of the opportunity of reading and analyzing for themselves the
contents of the BOOK. The author further submits that citizens and
non-citizens have legitimate and substantial interest in knowing about,
reading about and scrutinizing the conduct of the public figures
including the events and mysteries surrounding their allies or,
acquaintances and the Public has an interest, and in fact a deep
interest, in knowing all sides to the persona of and events surrounding
a public figure and that no illegality has been committed by the author
in authoring and getting the BOOK published and that in
contemporary democratic societies, public speech has to be diverse,
and a speech of value will perforce be critical of public institutions
and individuals. 32. Inter alia, the author has put forth her credentials submitting
that the author has graduated from Columbia Journalism School, in
2007, and she had written about the business of religion at Mint (a
widely circulated national newspaper) between 2007 and 2013 and
she is the winner of CNN Young Journalist Award for her coverage
of the Setusamudram channel, project in 2007. The author further
submitted that she is a contributing writer for Dharavi: The City CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 28 of 211 Within, and occasionally writes for the New York Times and the
Conde Nast Group and has adopted a methodology for the BOOK
which is consistent with the recognized methods of journalism and
that the methodology adopted for the BOOK by her is best summed
up in her ‗ Note' (as noted in Author's Note' in the Book): 33. Inter alia, the author submitted that an individual, least of all a
public figure like the Plaintiff, i.e, the present petitioner, who is
"worshipped as a Godman" as per averments in paragraph 2 of the
plaint, who himself claims to have followers "not only across the
nation but across the globe" as per the averments in paragraph 2 of the
plaint, should not seek to silence any speech or expression merely
because it is not what he may want to hear and in any case and that the
BOOK has not been and cannot be perceived to be defamatory by any
reasonable person, that substantial contents of the BOOK are fairly
laudatory of the Plaintiff, i.e. the present petitioner, whenever the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 29 of 211 context so warranted and that the public figures like the Plaintiff i.e.
the present petitioner cannot be too thin skinned in reference, to the
comments or observations or opinions expressed to them or events
related to them even if they have nothing to do with them. The author
further submitted that the factum that the plaintiff of the suit, i.e. the
present petitioner herein, is a public figure having exceedingly wide
following and media presence as depicted in the BOOK itself by the
following portions which have not been objected to by the plaintiff to
the suit, i.e. the present petitioner herein,
 "...Soon after Patanjali launched noodles,
 Ramdev began spending on traditional
 advertising in a big way. For nine of the
 following twelve weeks, Patanjali topped the
 weekly list of total ad insertions, according to the
 television viewership measurement agency
 Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC)
 India. Its weekly television ads more than
 doubled from 11,897 in the first week of January
 2016 to 24,050 in the week ended 25 March. During the same period, Ramdev appeared
 2,34,934 times across TV channels, which means
 he was on air every 30 seconds on one channel
 or another. He never looked back...." 34. The author has further submitted that she stands by the truth
of the statements contained in the BOOK which she states have been
written based on publicly available documents and recorded
interviews and have been published after due verification to the
maximum extent possible for a journalist. The author further submits
that in any case, truth itself is a multilayered phenomenon, as one
person's truth is other person's falsity and that what one Court finds as CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 30 of 211 truth from a set of circumstances, statements and evidences, the
Appellate Court may not, and so on and so forth and that from the
same set of circumstances different Courts have been long known to
come to different findings and that there is nothing known as absolute
truth. The author further submits that assuming what emerges out of
the process of judicial trial is a truth, should the freedom to express or
write or publish or to read and know be made contingent upon every
set of events and circumstances being put to a judicial trial first and
which is not the only way to ascertain the truth or else, the country or
societies will not have any newspapers or magazines and that the truth
is a matter of perception, and in a democratic society the standard has
to be a reasonable one or fair reporting as a matter of law. The author
further submits that the speech and expression which is premised on
honest belief or which amounts to fair comment, should not be
silenced and cannot be silenced and that the burden to prove that it is
not so, rests solely on the shoulders of the Plaintiff. 35. The author has further submitted that various portions/aspects
of the BOOK which seem objectionable to the Plaintiff, i.e., the
present petitioner herein, which are not necessarily actionable in law,
according to the author have also been stated in words far more
uncharitable to the Plaintiff, i.e. the present petitioner herein, in
different forms previously by the media (print and electronic media)
and have remained in public domain and that the Plaintiff, i.e., the
present petitioner herein, a public figure, cannot be ignorant of these
prior publications. The author further submits that the Plaintiff, i.e.,
the present petitioner herein, has waived his right to object to it and CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 31 of 211 also acquiesced in the publications/statements contained in the BOOK
and that the Plaintiff i.e., the present petitioner herein, is guilty of
suppression of the previous publications which amounts to
suppression of facts and the Plaintiff i.e., the present petitioner herein,
should not be permitted to proceed any further on this ground alone.
The author further submits that the plaintiff's statement i.e., the
present petitioner herein, that the BOOK is not based on public
records is false, and has been made dishonestly by suppressing the
relevant media reports and documents. The author further submits that
the Plaintiff's action, i.e., the present petitioner herein, also suffers
from delay and laches and considering the media reports on various
aspects of the BOOK which seem to have been objected to in the
plaint have remained in public domain for long and that the Plaintiff
i.e., the present petitioner herein cannot, complain of any legal injury
having been caused to him by the publication and circulation of the
BOOK or being caused by further circulation of the BOOK. 36. The author has put forth the extracts of a few publications
stated to be existing in the public domain prior to publication of the
BOOK are as under: 1. 'Baba Ramdev killed and chopped Daily Bhaskar, April 08, 20.13
 off his Guru Shankar Dev Available at weblink
 http://daily.bhaskar. com/news/
 "...A man named Rakesh has NAT-TOP--baba-ramdev-
 leveled sensational charges against killed-and-chopped-off-his-guru-
 Baba Ramdev, saying that the yoga shankar-dev---4229921- catches policemen and others spilling https://wvw.outlookindia.
 the beans on the shoddy investigation com
 into the disappearance of Swami /magazine/storv/if-the-
 Shankar dev, Baba Ramdev's guru" pose-holds/282475
 (Weblink last
 "...It remains unclear what really visited on 29 August
 happened in July 2007--or in the run- 2017)
 up to it. Ramdev, the present head, was
 himself out of the country at the time. Swami Shankardev's 'final letter'-- addressed to Ramdev's brother-in-law. Yash Dev Shastri--would have people
 believe that the guru, who suffered
 from tuberculosis of the spinal cord
 and possibly of the
 lungs, "left" because he could not
 repay, his "loans". One inmate alleges
 that Shankardev was reduced -to
 selling cardboard and styrofoam boxes CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 33 of 211 of medicines to foot his medical bills
 during his last few months at the
 ashram.... .... .and yet, his disappearance did not
 create much of a flutter. The ashram
 showed little urgency in trying to trace
 its own founder, who had voluntarily
 given up the reins of the ashram in
 1995 to his far more ' worldly-wise and
 nationally known disciple, Baba
 Ramdev..." 4 बाब रे बाबा कैसा है यह बाबा Pratirodh, June 7, 2012 . Available at weblink
 गुरु को लेकर बडा सवाल
 http ://www.pratirodh.com/%E
 0%A4%AC%E0%A4°/BE%- (Weblink last visited on 29 August 2017 23 As Modi and his Right Wing Hindu Reuters, May 23, 2017
 base rise, so too does a celebrity yoga Available at weblink
 tycoon http://www.reuters.com/investigates
 /special-report/india-modi-ramdev
 ―.......In the BJP-controlled states,
 (Weblink last visited on 29August
 Patanjali received a discount on the
 land purchased of 77 percent off 2017)
 market prices, according to state
 government documents, interviews
 with officials and land values provided
 by local real estate agents..... Official reporting of land transactions
 in India is patchy, especially of deals
 involving smaller acreages. But some
 do surface. For , example, Patanjali

 received a discount of more ,than $10
 million, or 88 percent, on a 40-acre
 plot in the BJP state of Madhya
 Pradesh last year, according to
 interviews with a state official and real
 estate brokers. discounts for land acquisitions in states Weblink last visited on 29 -August
 2017) CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 41 of 211 controlled by the BJP, according to a
 Reuters review of state government
 documents, interviews with officials
 and real estate estimates. It gained access to other land free of
 charge. The firm, Patanjali, has also
 received something of an official
 imprimatur-from a newly created
 ministry and BJP leaders..." 25 Ramdev's Patanjali benefited from $46 Scrollin, May 24,2017
 million in discounted land acquisitions Available at weblink
 in BJP states: https://scroll.in/latest/83.85
 84/ramdevs-revenues-from- Reuters patanjali-have-soared-since- 26 Ramdev's Company Got $46 Million Huffpost, May 24, 2017
 In Discounts For Land Acquisitions
 Available at weblink
 Since Modi Came To Power; Reuters http://www.huffingtonpost.ip/
 "...Since Modi came to power, 2017/05/24/how-baba-ramdev's-
 Ramdev's company has received more business-has-boomed- since-modi- than an estimated $46 million in came-to-powef a 22106711/
 discounts for land acquisitions in (Weblink
 states-controlled by the. BJP, last visited on 29 Augiist
 according to a Reuters review of state 2017)
 government documents, interviews
 with officials and real estate estimates. It gained access to other land free of
 charge...." 27 A TRIBUNE EXCLUSIVE The Tribune, June-7, 2011
 "...Meet Ramdev, the landlord How Available at weblink
 Uttarakhand Govt gave Baba 644 acres http://www.tribuneindia.com/2011/
 at throwaway prices 20110607/main2.htm
 Many Acres of Ramdev's realty (Weblinlc last visited on 29 August
  In 2008, vide the government 2017)
 Order letter nO. 56/18(1)707 dated
 JulyT, 2008, 50 hectares land was'
 given to Baba Ramdev's Patanjali
 Yogapeeth Trust in Aurangabad,
 Shivdaspur, Teliwala, Shantarshah and
 Bahadrapur for "Panchkarm ,
 Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing
 research laboratory". • In less than a month, vide the
 government order letter no. 139/18(l)/07 dated August 8, 2008,
 Baba Ramdev's Patanjali Yogapeeth
 Trust was again given 56.468 hectares
 land at Mustafabad for "medicine
 manufacturing and research". • Two years later, 155 hectare land was
 again given to the yoga guru's ,
 Patajanli University and Yogapeeth
 Trust in Aurangabad, Shivdaspur and
 Teliwala vide letter no.57/XVIII
 (II)/lO dated February 26, 20I0. • Much of the land was either
 community land or gram panchayat
 land. The panchayats were not
 consulted before the allotment of the
 land by the Haridwar district
 authorities..." 28 Baba's black sheep and the golden Tehelka, June 10, 2011
 fleece Available at weblink
 http://www.tehelka.com/20l 1/
 "...While the land ceiling law is very Q6/babas-black-sheep-and-the-
 stringent in Uttarakhand, Baba golden- Ramdev seems an honourable fleece/ (Weblink last visited on 29
 exception. Two government orders in August 2017)
 the month of July 2008 allowed the
 trusts and companies run by Baba
 Ramdev to buy 1,700 bighas (1 bigha
 is ,800 sq m). Out of this, Baba asked
 the government to convert the 800
 bighas in Mustafabad into industrial
 land. The n trust has bought this land
 at a low price and property dealers of
 the area say that if the land is n
 converted to industrial use, it, will be
 pure, gold..." 29 Baba Ramdev's epic swindle Tehelka 19 March 2012
 "...Now the question which arises is
 that how can the same Ramdev, who Available at weblink
 is accusing the government of http)://archive.tehelka.com/story
 protecting black money, be involved in main52.asp?filename=Wsl
 black Money himself? 90312Black money.asp
 The investigation done by Tehelka (Webliiik last visited on 29August
 shows, that the movement created by 2017)
 Ramdev is a classic case of pot calling
 the kettle black... Several officers of the State Tax
 department believe that after the raid a
 lot of pressure was exerted on Rana. The pressure was so much that Rana
 was forced to take retirement 4 years
 before his tenure was to come to an
 end. Rana at the time was considered
 as one of the brightest and upright
 officers. After this raid by the $IB,
 no other state or Central department
 could gather enough courage to raid
 Ramdev's empire again. Consequently,
 his empire grew several times after CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 44 of 211 that..." 30 Congress, BJP accuse each other over The Hindii, March 16,2017
 Baba Ramdev's land deal
 Available at Weblink
 "...Heated exchanges were witnessed http://www.thehindu.com/news
 in the Himachal Pradesh Assembly on /national/other-states/
 Wednesday on the issue of allotment congress-bip-accuse-each-other-
 of 22 acres to Baba Ramdev's Patanjali over-baba-ramdevs-land-deal/article
 Yogpeeth at Sadhupul in Solan district 17469116.ece
 in 2009. (Weblink last visited on
 State Revenue Minister Kaul Singh 29 August 2017)
 Thakur revealed that the Cabinet had
 on February 17 given its nod to n
 reconsider the lease of land to the
 Yogpeeth that was earlier cancelled by
 it in February 2013..." Ramdev as the next president of India? Available at weblink
 ' https ://www.quara. com/Should- BJP-now-promote-Baba-Ramdev- 33 Baba Ramdev becomes Lala Ramdev. India News, November -8, 2010 . 212.5% increase in Patanjali Gas Available. at weblink
 Haran Churan in six months. https://www.reddit.com/r/indianews
 /comments/5 dm 39 o/baba ramdev
 becomes lala ramdev 2125 increase
 in/
 (Weblink last visited on 29 August
 2017) 37. The author has further submitted that the plaintiff, i.e. the
petitioner herein, has in fact twisted and misrepresented the facts in
the plaint and various paragraphs which have been quoted in the plaint
are in fact assimilation by the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner, of
different portions of the BOOK in an unfair manner, and sub-
headings to the portions quoted in the plaint in fact do not even exist
in the BOOK. 38. The author further submits that the statements in the plaint are
extremely vague, and adversely impacts the author in conduct of her
defence in as much as the Plaintiff i.e., the present petitioner herein,
has not pleaded with any clarity or specificity of the alleged
defamatory/objectionable portions of the BOOK or the meanings of
the portions of the BOOK that the plaintiff i.e., the present petitioner
herein, considers to be defamatory. The author further submits that
the entire plaint on a meaningful reading does not disclose any cause
of action in relation to the BOOK and that even if the entire plaint is
to be taken in its face value, the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner
herein, is not entitled to any relief. 39. Inter alia, the author submitted that the suit has not been CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 46 of 211 properly instituted and has been instituted on a power of attorney
which has not been duly executed. 40. The author further submits that the plaintiff i.e., the present
petitioner herein, has not valued the suit nor valued the suit properly
and the relief of damages has not even been quantified and that the
requisite court fees has not been paid by the plaintiff, i.e., the present
petitioner herein, on the plaint and that a suit which is not valued
properly and which is accompanied with insufficient court fee is non
est in law and immunity from litigation unless appropriate court fees
has been paid on the plaint is a valuable right of the defendant, i.e., the
respondent No.1 to the present petition,i.e., the author. The author
further submits that no useful purpose would be served by the grant of
relief of permanent injunction or declaration as prayed for in the plaint
by the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner herein, that many copies of
the BOOK have already been sold and circulated by the publisher
prior to the date of the ex parte ad interim injunction order dated
04.08.2017. 41. Reference was further made by the author to the requisite
articles published in Economic Times or articles or those available on
internet www.devbhoomi.com/god-man-to-tycoon. It is further
submitted that the excerpt "pair dabakar sant bane, gala dabakar
mehant, kuch yun bataya gaya baba ramdev ka sach" is not a part of
the BOOK and is not even alleged to be a part of the BOOK. The
author further contended that whether it would be slanderous or not if
it were to be a part of the BOOK therefore, does not even arise. The
author further denied that defendant No.1, i.e., the respondent herein, CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 47 of 211 has selectively picked and chosen the instances out of the context to
make them slanderous to malign the reputation of the Plaintiff. 42. The author further submitted that the plaintiff, i.e., the present
petitioner herein has not sought any relief against any information
published by third parties by the social media or internet or any other
medium which thus precluded him from claiming the reliefs sought
from the same against the respondents. 43. Inter alia, the author has challenged the invocation of the
territorial jurisdiction of this Court by the plaintiff, i.e., present
petitioner herein. Written Statement of the Publisher. 44. The Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. through its
written statement dated 1.9.2017 contends that no portion of the
contents of the BOOK are defamatory in nature and thus no cause of
action arises to the plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner herein, to seek
action for defamation and that the plaint has been filed dishonestly
with an intention to get the relief by misleading the Court. 45. Substantially, the contentions of the Publisher, i.e., M/s
Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd are virtually the same as those had been
put forth by the author. The Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt.
Ltd further submits that the BOOK is not even the first full length
BOOK about the plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner herein, and that
at present a number of full length books about the respondent No.1
which include From Moksha To Market- The Baba Ramdev
Phenomenon by Kaushik Deka, Ramdev Baba- 7 Life lessons by V J
Gartier, Ek Yogi, Ek Yoddha by Sandeep De, Gurus-Stories of lndias CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 48 of 211 Leading Babas by Bhavdeep Kang, Yog Guru Swami Ramdev by
Ashok Raj, The Life and Times of Baba Ramdev by Ashok Raj,
Baba Ramdev and The Resurgence of the New India Movement by
K C Mahendru and Baba Ramdev Ke Sapnon Ka Bharat by K C
Mahendru. 46. The Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd further
submits that the even the petitioner has himself published variety of
issues - e.g. Yog; It's Philosophy and Practice and it has been
contended by the Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. that
it was in public interest that there should be as many views as possible
circulating in the marketplace of ideas, especially when the matter
relates to the figures and issues of national importance. The Publisher,
i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd further submits that the BOOK is
a biography that traces Baba Ramdev's journey from humble
beginnings to teaching yoga to people and his rise to fame and
widespread influence. 47. The Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd, i.e. the
respondent No.1, to CM(M) 556/2018 and respondent No.2 to CM(M)
557/2018 submits that it is a renowned publishing house based in New
Delhi which brings high quality books to the readers and its address
has been incorrectly reproduced in the Plaint and it is Juggernaut
Books Pvt. Ltd. 4th Floor, K.S. House, No. 118, Shahpur Jat, New
Delhi 110049 and that Respondent No.3 (M/s Amazon India Ltd.) and
the respondent No. 4 (M/s Flipkart Internet Pvt. Ltd.) to the present
petition are online stores which are well known and carry out a busy
trade in products and services and that they are third parties who are CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 49 of 211 in no way under the control or supervision of the Publisher, i.e., M/s
Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. 48. The Publisher has further submitted no portion of the BOOK
or even of the supplied passages when dealing with Shanker Dev's
disappearance is defamatory at all and states that the entire text
explains that (a) there was a disappearance, (b) the finger of suspicion
had been pointed by some persons towards the Plaintiff, i.e. the
petitioner herein, (c) there was an investigation and court hearings
regarding the matter, (d) the Plaintiff, i.e., the petitioner herein, had
dismissed all allegations as being concocted and politically initiated
and that the CBI had investigated the entire matter and that every
statement made is substantially true. 49. Inter alia, the publisher submits that the average reader of the
BOOK through the internet is a person who would read pages 201
and 202 of the BOOK and would shut the BOOK and that reader
would have read 200 pages would have almost certainly finished
reading the next 6 pages and by cherry picking, portions, sentences
and statements, the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner, has
misrepresented the case entirely, and made it appear as if the tone of
the BOOK is purely, negative, critical or as if the defendants, i.e. the
respondents have some secret agenda. 50. Inter alia, the publisher submits that the portion pertaining to
the fact that Acharya Karamveer has had a falling out with the
Plaintiff, i.e., the petitioner herein, and they no longer agreed on many
things and the Publisher conducted extensive interviews with
Acharya Karamveer and has direct and irrefutable statements recorded CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 50 of 211 regarding the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner herein, and even that
fact, that two people disagree, which can have no possible impact on
anybody's reputation, has been part of the public domain for years and
has been commented on by the media. 51. The Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd further
submits that the fifth allegedly offending portion of the BOOK
released, which is not extracted, but merely alluded to, relates to the
untimely death of Rajeev Dixit and that no statement made in the
chapter on the death of Rajeev Dixit, being Chapter 19 of the BOOK
is false, or untrue. The Publisher further submitted that the sixth
allegedly defamatory portion is the mention of the murder of Swami
Yogananda and submits that all that has been stated in the BOOK
about Swami Yogananda is that (a) Swami Yogananda was a close
associate of the Plaintiff and that they shared business ties and (b) that
Swami Yogananda was found dead murdered by knife. This
information was gleaned from (a) publically available sources listed at
Pages 214-215 of the BOOK and (b) FIR and the closure report in the
investigation by the police. 52. The publisher further submitted that that Swami Yogananda
was found dead as murdered by knife and there was no other eye
witness and the closure report was filed. 53. The Publisher reiterates that the claims of the plaintiff, i.e., the
present petitioner, have been far more explicitly, dealt with by
contemporary reports in newspapers, TV channels in India and any
other media and if there was ever any question of defamation, the
Plaintiff has acquiesced over and over again, and the plaintiff, i.e., the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 51 of 211 present petitioner, would have even rebutted allegations when
confronted and those rebuttals and comments from the Plaintiff, i.e.,
the present petitioner and his team have all been reported on and
treated fairly in the BOOK and a number of the sources for these
portions have been filed along with the written statement. 54. Inter alia, the Publisher submits that the basis of the BOOK
includes references to more than 180 press articles, more than ICQ
documents obtained from the Registrar of Companies, 28 taped
interviews and many Right to Information requests and each of the
facts that have been cited in the order of the learned Trial Court of the
ACJ-CCJ being as controversial has been the subject of press
speculation and even been debated in legislative assemblies of States
and that the BOOK merely reports these facts, in a holistic context
and that the statements made in the BOOK are about a public person,
in public interest and are clearly the Author's own opinion and are
fairly made on the basis of available information and they have in no
way been made with malice. 55. The Publisher, i.e., M/s Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd, arrayed as
respondent No.1 in CM(M) 556/2018 and respondent No.2 in CM(M)
557/2018 has submitted that the publisher and the author have
operated within the legitimate sphere of activity protected under Article 19(l)(a) of the Constitution of India and they have reported on
facts and offered their view points, opinions or critiques, concerning
matters that they bona fidely believe in their editorial discretion to be-
in the larger interests of the general community and that the contents
of the disputed Article which have been challenged by the plaintiff, CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 52 of 211 i.e., the present petitioner, are thus, in any event, protected by the
doctrine of fair comment. 56. The publisher further submitted that as laid down in several
landmark cases, to determine whether something is 'fair comment',
one must assess whether the opinion however exaggerated, obstinate
or prejudiced it might be honestly held by the person expressing it
and that any further inference drawn from facts truly set out in a news
report of article must only be a fair and reasonable inference, and it is
not necessary that they must be an inevitable inference and that the
Article targeted by the plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner, falls well
within the realm of ― fair comment‖-- which is a manner of speech
and expression that is constitutionally protected under Indian law and
that such articles concerning the affairs of famous and powerful
persons are common place in Indian society, and rightly so-- in many
a case have rightly helped unearth the illegalities also. 57. The publisher has further submitted that it is well settled that
the grant of injunction both, interim or permanent, as provided under
Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 CPC and Order XXXVIII of the Specific
Relief Act cannot be used to negate the legitimate reporting by the
media/press, even if such report is pointed or harshly worded nor
should the law be allowed to choke the fair warning to the public if
the public interest stands threatened in some way. 58. Inter alia, it has been submitted on behalf of the publisher that
in a case of injunctive reliefs against allegedly, defamatory news
articles in every case seeking the relief of injunction the Plaintiff, i.e.,
the present petitioner has to cogently establish that the book or article CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 53 of 211 complained of is prima facie defamatory and that for injunctive reliefs
against allegedly, defamatory news articles in every case seeking the
relief of injunction the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner has to
cogently establish that the book or article complained of is prima facie
defamatory and the balance of convenience must also be established.
The publisher further submitted that before getting into all other
issues, the plaintiff of course bears the onus of proving that
defamatory words concerning him were at all published -for which it
is simply not sufficient for him to merely show that he has a
reputation or that he is the subject of the article or that he personally
disagrees with the contents of the article and that the article unfairly
casts him in a false light, and that it is factually not true, and that the
opinions of the author expressed therein "are not at all "warranted by
facts or otherwise protected by the doctrine of ‗fair comments'. 59. The publisher further submits that in jurisdictions having robust
Constitutionally guaranteed free speech rights for the media, as in
India, it is now well-established that law suits filed solely with the
intent of censoring, intimidating and silencing critics by burdening
them with the costs of legal defence, until they abandon their criticism
or opposition - which are known by the commonly-used acronym of
"SLAPP" (i.e., strategic lawsuit against public participation) -are not
be entertained by the courts of law. It, is further submitted that the suit
if pending before the ACJ-CCJ-ARC (East) had been so filed
precisely with the intent of removing legitimate commentary about
possible conflicts of interest of the Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner
from, the public domain - and hence ought not to be entertained. 60. The publisher has denied that the Plaintiff, i.e., the present
petitioner, has not in any way established that the contents of the
BOOK authored by the author, i.e., the respondent Priyanka Pathak
Narain are either prima facie defamatory to the plaintiff, i.e., the
present petitioner, or that there was a specific intent on the part of the
defendants, i.e., the respondents No.1 and 2 herein, to defame the
Plaintiff, i.e., the present petitioner, by maliciously publishing
untruths about him and that the BOOK published by the publisher,
only seeks to report on certain facts about a well known public
figure-- which reporting is not only within the rights of the
defendants, i.e, the respondent herein (and every citizen), but also one
of the media's, most important duties' towards the society and it has
also been submitted that the contents of Paragraph 9 of the Plaint are
false and misleading and therefore denied. It is further denied that the
contents of the BOOK are malicious and scandalous or out of context
with an ulterior motive. 61. The Publisher submits that in fact, the extract "Ramdev's first
serious falling out was with Karamveer Maharaj, his first mentor,
the man who taught him how to teach yoga‖ has been maliciously
extracted from the BOOK by the Plaintiff without providing the
context in which these lines have been written. The publisher further
denied that the publisher has wrongly attributed any accusation to
Karamveer which he has not made, and the making of which is not in
the public domain. 62. It is denied that any cause of action arose on 29 th July 2017 and
it is further denied that any cause of action arose on 30th July 2017 due CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 55 of 211 to the interview of the author in Economic Times. It is further denied
that the BOOK is causing any loss of reputation to the Plaintiff, i.e.,
the present petitioner, or that it has a bearing on Patanjali Ayurveda
Ltd. Co. The publisher further denied that the cause of action is 'a
continuing one and stated that no cause of action has been shown to
arise in the present dispute as the Patanjali Ayurveda Ltd. Co. has not
even been made a party to the suit. 63. The publisher has further denied that the BOOK violates the
plaintiff's right and reputation and has denied that there is a strict
fundamental right to reputation and has also denied that the BOOK
makes any assertions which are not verified. The publisher further
submits that the petitioner has made contradictory and mutually
destructive pleas and that on one hand prayed for an injunction against
the selling and publishing of the BOOK as a whole whereas on the
other hand he has prayed for deletion of only certain paragraphs of the
BOOK. Inter alia the publisher has submitted that the prayer made by
the petitioner seeking that all the books in the market be called back in
as much as the books have been lawfully sold to third party
vendors/distributors/book sellers etc. 64. The petitioner through submissions made on behalf of the
petitioner both orally and through his written synopsis, seeks to
contend as under : - Mark on which the passing-off action is
 founded. We shall deal with these two
 separately. 14. The appeals before the Division Bench
 were against the exercise of discretion by
 the Single Judge. In such appeals, the
 Appellate Court will not interfere with the
 exercise of discretion of the court of first
 instance and substitute its own discretion
 except where the discretion has been shown CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 57 of 211 to have been exercised arbitrarily, or
 capriciously or perversely or where the
 court had ignored the settled principles of
 law regulating grant or refusal of
 interlocutory injunctions. An appeal against
 exercise of discretion is said to be an appeal
 on principle. Appellate Court will not
 reassess the material and seek to reach a
 conclusion different from the one reached by
 the court below if the one reached by the
 court was reasonably possible on the
 material. The appellate court would
 normally not be justified in interfering with
 the exercise of discretion under appeal
 solely on the ground that if it had considered
 the matter at the trial stage it would have
 come to a contrary conclusion. If the
 discretion has been exercised by the Trial
 Court reasonably and in a judicial manner
 the fact that the appellate court would have
 taken a different view may not justify
 interference with the trial court's exercise of
 discretion. After referring to these principles
 Gajendragadkar, J. in Printers (Mysore)
 Private Ltd. v. Pothan Joseph : Inter alia, the petitioner submits that the Ld. Appellate Court has
completely erred in its finding that there are no pleadings to support
the case of the Petitioner and rather submitted that it had specifically
been argued by the petitioner that in relation the claim of privacy that
the right to privacy and the right to reputation are in fact two sides of
the same coin and are both founded in Article 21 of the Constitution
of India and that the common law right of privacy has an identical
content to the constitutional right. Reliance in this regard was placed
on behalf of the petitioner on the verdicts of the Hon'ble Supreme CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 60 of 211 Court in Justice Puttuswamy v. UOI (2017) 10 SCC 1, Paragraph
298 and on the verdict of Hon'ble Mr. Justice Chandrachud J.),
Paragraph 397 -- 398 and on the verdict of Hon'ble Mr. Bobde J.,
Paragraphs 623 & 624, (Kaul J.)] and in Subramanian Swamy v.
Union of India (2016) 7 SCC 221, Paragraphs 35, 48,133 66. The petitioner thus submitted that the Petitioner having
pleaded his right to reputation as well as violation of his fundamental
rights under Article 21 and the finding of the Ld. Appellate Court that
the Petitioner had not impliedly pleaded the right to privacy was
erroneous and it was also submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the
learned Appellate Court in the impugned order has erred in its finding
that there were no pleadings on the part of the Petitioner that the
allegations were false, as a bare perusal of the plaint reveals that the
petitioner has clearly averred that the allegations were false,
malicious, misleading, slanderous twisted, incorrect and defamatory. 67. It was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that extensive
reliance had been placed by the Learned Appellate Court on
judgments of this Hon'ble Court in Khushwant Singh v. Maneka
Gandhi (2001) SCC Online Del 1030, Tata Sons v. Greenpeace
International 2011 SCC Online Del 466, Sardar Charanjeet Singh v.
Arun Purie & Ors. 1983 ( 4) DRJ 86, Dr. Shashi Tharoor v. Arnab
Goswami 2017 SCC Onling 12049 to observe to the effect that in
suits of the kind filed by the petitioner, the Civil Court should grant an
injunction for publication of the alleged defamatory contents not as a
rule, but as an exception, only when the defence of the defendant
appears to be completely meritless and it has been submitted on behalf CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 61 of 211 of the petitioner that the said observations are applying the English
Common Law in Bonnard v. Perryman [1891 2 (Ch) 269] as
observed by Lord Coleridge CJ, which reads to the effect : - 68. It was however submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the
Appellate Court has not taken into account the verdicts relied upon by CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 62 of 211 the petitioner and did not consider the judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Justice K.S Puttuswamy v. UOI (2017) 10 SCC 1
nor in Subramanian Swamy v. Union of India (2016) 7 SCC 221
and that the judgments have not accounted for the balancing of the
expanded rights of reputation and privacy as explained in these
aforementioned judgments, against the right of freedom of speech and
expression and must accordingly be viewed with caution. 69. It was submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the impact of
the judgment in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy v. UOI (2017) 10 SCC 1 on
the restraint of defamatory publication has been explained by the
Hon'ble High Court of Madras in Kanimozbi Karunanidhi v. Thini
P.Vardarajan (CS No. 705 of 2014, dated 16.05.2018) reported
whilst placing reliance on paragraphs 36, 37, 40, 41, 42, 43 thereof,
which read to the effects : - (i) The respondents shall not publish anything
 regarding the private life of the applicant, viz., her
 family, her marriage, procreation, motherhood, child-
 bearing and education, without the consent of the
 applicant. (ii) Whenever, the respondents propose to publish any
 article relating to the private life of the applicant,
 claiming that it is in public interest, the respondents
 shall forward their queries/gist or the full article to the
 applicant to her email ID (to be furnished) and await
 for her response. If any response is received within 48
 hours, the response shall also be published with the
 same prominence of the article. If no response is
 received within the 48 hours, the respondents will be at
 liberty to go ahead and published the article.‖ 70. It was thus submitted on behalf of the petitioner that as laid
down in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy v. UOI (2017) 10 SCC 1 by
Hon'ble Mr. Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul that all matters in which the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 66 of 211 public is interested may not have an element of public interest and
breaches into privacy thus made cannot be overlooked observing to
the effect that the public does not have an interest in knowing all
information that is true and that the public has no justification for all
truthful information being made available to the public and that every
individual should have a right to be able to exercise control over his /
her common life and image as public to the writing and to control
commercial his / her identity and may be permitted to prevent from
using his image, name and other aspects of his / her personal life and
identity for commercial purposes without his /her consent. 71. It is essential to bring forth paragraphs 623, 624, 625, 626,627
and 639, 646 of the said verdict which are as follows: ......x.....x.....x......x.....x

 ....x.......x.....x......x....x

 The Restrictions 639. The right to privacy as already observed is not
 absolute. The right to privacy as falling in part III
 of the Constitution may, depending on its variable
 facts, vest in one part or the other, and would thus
 be subject to the restrictions of exercise of that
 particular fundamental right. National security
 would thus be an obvious restriction, so would the
 provisos to different fundamental rights, dependent
 on where the right to privacy would arise. The
 Public interest element would be another aspect. .....x......x.....x....x. .....x......x.....x....x 646. If the individual permits someone to enter
 the house it does not mean that others can enter the
 house. The only check and balance is that it should
 not harm the other individual or affect his or her
 rights. This applies both to the physical form and to
 technology. In an era where there are wide, varied,
 social and cultural norms and more so in a country
 like ours which prides itself on its diversity, privacy
 is one of the most important rights to be protected
 both against State and non-State actors and be
 recognized as a fundamental right. How it
 thereafter works out in its inter-play with other
 fundamental rights and when such restrictions
 would become necessary would depend on the
 factual matrix of each case. That it may give rise to CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 69 of 211 more litigation can hardly be the reason not to
 recognize this important, natural, primordial right
 as a fundamental right. 72. The observations made in the R.Rajagopal @ R.R.Gopal @
Nakkheeran Gopal and others v. J.Jayalitha and another reported
in 2006 (2) LW 377 are to the effect : - 73. Specific reference was also placed on behalf of the petitioner on
the observations of the Hon'ble Division Bench in R.Rajagopal v.
State of Tamil Nadu , reported in 1994 (6) SCC 632 which reads to
the effect : - 74. The observations in paras 39 & 40 of the Kanimozbi
Karunanidhi v. Thini P.Vardarajan (CS No. 705 of 2014, dated
16.05.2018) read to the effect : - It is not extended to the functions of the applicant
 as a Member of the Parliament or as a Leader of
 the Political Party.‖ CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 74 of 211 77. It has been submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the strict
application of the rule in Bonnard v. Perryman [1891 2 (Ch) 269] is
being doubted even in the United Kingdom in light of the recognition
of the right to reputation as well as privacy and thus reliance has been
placed on Gatley on Libel and Slander (Sweet & Maxwell, 12th
Edition), Taveta Investments Limited vs. Financial Peporting
Council [2018] EWHC 1662 (Admin) and Sunderland Housing
Company Ltd v. John Baines [2006] EWHC 2359 (QB) wherein in Section 4 thereof, the rule has been analyzed with observations in para
25.6 to the effect : - 1294B. 97. Laws J's express linking of the public law
 approach to Bonnard -v- Perryman has led, as I
 have noted above, to the threshold for injunctions
 restraining publication of reports of public
 authorities to be set very high indeed. The cases in
 which interim injunctions are granted in private
 law defamation claims are vanishingly few. Respectfully, however, I have serious reservations
 as to whether setting the bar so high is still correct
 or can be justified. i) Although the principle from
 Bonnard -v- Perryman has been approved,
 post Human Rights Act 1998, by the Court of
 Appeal in Greene -v- Associated Newspapers
 [2005] QB 972, one of the bases of doing so was
 that the determination of meaning (so often the
 heart of a defamation claim) was reserved to the
 jury ([57]). The Court distinguished the authority
 of In re S (A Child), stressing ―the distinction
 between a defamation case (where the claimant's
 right to a reputation has been put in issue and the
 issue cannot be effectively resolved before the
 trial) and a case which raises direct issues of
 privacy or confidentiality‖ [79]-[81]. ii) Since the
 decision in Greene, the right to trial by jury in
 defamation claims has been removed (s.11
 Defamation Act 2013). A key plank of the
 justification for retaining the rule in Bonnard -v-
 Perryman has therefore gone. In any event, when
 an issue arises in public law proceedings
 concerning the alleged publication of defamatory
 statements, the matter has always been resolved by
 a judge sitting alone and not by a jury. iii)
 Application of the rule in Bonnard -v- Perryman
 and (the equivalent, in public law) Vernons gives a
 presumptive priority to Article 10 (freedom of
 expression) right over Article 8 (including the
 right to reputation). It has been held in private law
 litigation that such presumptive priority is not CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 78 of 211 justifiable, being inconsistent with the
 jurisprudence of the ECHR: Douglas -v- Hello!
 Ltd [2001] QB 967 [133], [135] per Sedley LJ,
 approved by the House of Lords in Campbell - vMGN Ltd [2004] 2 AC 457 [55] per Lord
 Nicholls; [111] per Lord Hope; [138]-[139] per
 Baroness Hale and in In re S (A Child) [17] per
 Lord Steyn. The authorities identify the correct test
 whenever Article 10 and Article 8 interests conflict
 as that in In re S (A Child) [17] and the test to be
 applied at the interim stage as that provided by Section 12 Human Rights Act 1998. and also reference to the paragraph 103 of the said verdict to the
effect: - Some weight, of course, must now be given to Article 8 interests where they are engaged,
 especially in the light of the proposition CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 80 of 211 advanced by their Lordships in Re S to the
 effect that when such rights are engaged no one
 Article will necessarily automatically prevail
 over another. There is no doubt that Article 10 will always weigh very powerfully, but Article 8 cannot simply be put out of account altogether. 17.It seems to me at least right for a defendant
 who seeks to resist an injunction against
 publication of defamatory words to identify the
 defamatory meaning or meanings which he
 intends to justify, and also to state in a witness
 statement verified by a statement of truth that
 he believes in the truth of the words in that
 meaning or those meanings. That, it seems to
 me, must be the very minimum. Of course, there
 is nothing to prevent a defendant, if he or she
 wishes, from adducing evidence to show the
 supposed strength of a proposed plea of
 justification but that is not something which is a
 necessary ingredient. 18. With respect to Davis J. it is not necessary
 in order to resist an injunction to produce
 ―cogent evidence‖, although that phrase was
 used in the course of the last hearing when
 Davis J. was discussing the matter before
 giving his ruling, I think with Mr. Baines. Where there are many and various defamatory
 allegations, some of which are undoubtedly
 very serious, alleging criminal misconduct and
 matters undoubtedly of great public interest
 (which, in a sense, cuts both ways) it seems to
 me that it must be right that a defendant should
 be required at least to identify the extent to
 which he proposes and intends to justify. It will
 not do simply to put in a blanket statement of
 intention or hope and leave it at that. It is, in
 my judgment, too cavalier. 19. So far that has not been done. I will CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 81 of 211 therefore grant the injunction against the first
 defendant, or rather continue the injunction
 against the first defendant unless and until the
 time comes when those basic requirements
 which I have identified have been complied
 with. At that stage, it is entirely open to the first
 defendant and his advisers to make an
 application to vary or discharge the injunction.
 But that will have to be addressed on its merits
 as and when the application is made. 20. Until that happens, it seems to me that there
 is absolutely nothing in the scales to set against
 Mr. Walls' very clear denials in his witness
 statement. At this stage it is not possible for me
 to say that there is a clear issue which has to be
 left to trial. At the moment, it is all too vague.
 That moment may come. Bonnard v. Perryman
 may then prevail, but at the moment it seems to
 me too early to give it that priority.‖ 80. It was thus submitted on behalf of the petitioner that the
common law rule in Bonnard (supra) as laid down in Sardar
Charanjeet Singh v. Arun Purie &" Ors. 1983 (4) DRJ 86 with
specific reference in para 23 is to the effect : - 81. Reliance was also placed on behalf of the petitioner on the
verdict of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Khushwant Singh v. Maneka
Gandhi (2001) SCC Online Del 1030 with specific reference in
paragraph 68 wherein it has been observed to the effect that : - 82. Reference was made inter alia on behalf of the petitioner to the
observations in Tata Sons v. Greenpeace International 2011 SCC
Online Del 466 with specific refence in paragraphs 30, 35, 36 & 37,
which are to the effect : - 35. In Holley v. Smyth, [1998] QB 726, where the
 potency of the rule (in Bonnard) was reaffirmed
 the Court reiterated the principle as follows: ....Because of the court's reluctance
 to fetter free speech and because the
 questions that arise during the
 proceedings, such as whether the
 meaning is defamatory, whether
 justification or fair comment are
 applicable and as to malice, are
 generally for the jury, interlocutory
 injunctions are granted less readily
 in defamation proceedings than in
 other matters and according to
 different principles..." 37. From the above reasoning it follows that
 the Court will invariably not grant an interim
 injunction to restrain the publication of
 defamatory material as it would be
 unreasonable to fetter the freedom of speech
 before the full trial takes place, where each of
 the parties can argue in detail with the help of
 additional evidence. Similarly in this matter, it
 is incumbent IA No.9089/2010 in CS(OS)
 No.1407/2010 Page 18 upon this Court to
 decide whether it would be reasonable to fetter
 the reasonable criticism, comment, and parody
 directed at the plaintiff, which to a large extent
 is protected by the Constitutional guarantee to
 free speech, to all the citizens of India. This
 point of view was also strengthened by a recent
 challenge to the old common law rule of
 Bonnard in the case of Greene v. Associated
 Newspapers Limited, 2005 (1) All.ER. 30,
 where it was decided that if it is a known fact
 that the true validity of the defamation claims
 will only be tested at trial level then it would
 only be appropriate for the Court not to award
 an interim injunction to the plaintiffs as it
 would otherwise put an unreasonable burden
 on the concept of free speech. After an
 elaborate survey of the law on the issue, it was
 held that: 83. Reference was also made on behalf of the petitioner on the
verdict of this Court to the observations in Dr. Shashi Tharoor v.
Arnab Goswami 2017 SCC Online 12049 with specific reference in
paragraphs 53 & 87 wherein it has been observed to the effect that : - 84. It is essential to advert to the conclusion in Dr. Shashi Tharoor
v. Arnab Goswami 2017 SCC Onling 12049 with specific reference
in paragraphs 96, 97, 98, 99 & 100 wherein it has been observed to
the effect that : - 85. On behalf of the petitioner it was submitted that it is essential to
observe that in the impugned order itself the learned Trial Court had
returned a finding that the proposed defences were weak and
furthermore, the respondents had not made a categorical assertion in
their written statements that the allegations are true in as much as the
author has claimed that that 'truth is a multi layered phenomenon' and
the publisher claims that allegations are a 'legitimate surmise' and thus
it has been submitted on behalf of the petitioner that a proper
application of the Bonnard Rule would grant the Petitioner herein the
injunction. 86. The petitioner has thus submitted that the defamatory
allegations made in the BOOK written by Ms. Priyanka Pathak
Narain and published by the publisher Juggernaut Books Pvt. Ltd. i.e.
the respondents to the present petition specifically are to the effect
that: 87. Most of the written submissions that have been made by the
author are already incorporated in the written statement of the author
which has already been adverted to elsewhere hereinabove. 88. Through the written submissions submitted on behalf of the
author Ms. Priyanka Pathak Narain it has been submitted that the
impugned order suffers from no perversity or material infirmity, and
consequently the revision petitions are liable to be dismissed and that
even if this Court may hold a view different than that of the Ld.
Appellate Court, unless the view of the Ld. Appellate Court is
perverse, no interference with the same ought to be made. 89. It is further submitted on behalf of the author that the impugned
order expressly noted the perversity and capriciousness in the order of
the Ld. Trial Court and also noted in the impugned order that the
findings in this paragraph have been given keeping in view the law laid down in Ramdev Food Products (P) Ltd. v Arvindbhai Rambhai
Patel , ( 2006) 8 SCC 726 and Wander Ltd. v Antox India P. Ltd. ,
1990 Supp SCC 727.) and the learned trial Court's order has thus
been set aside vide the impugned order on the grounds enumerated in Wander Limited v. Antox 1990 Supp SCC 727. 90. It was further submitted on behalf of the author that insufficient
and vague pleadings do not give rise to any cause of action and an
attempt to defame as alleged by the Petitioner is not an actionable
cause of action and it was thus submitted on behalf of the author that
in a suit for defamation, it is obligatory upon a Plaintiff to specifically
identify and indicate (whether by way of reproduction in the plaint
verbatim or otherwise by giving sufficient and clear indication of the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 94 of 211 portions alleged to be defamatory) the portions that he/she alleges to
be defamatory. It was further submitted on behalf of the author that
furthermore, where a portion of publication or sentence is not
defamatory per se, it is obligatory upon the Plaintiff, in addition to
pleading the allegedly defamatory portion, to plead the innuendo or
the secondary meaning and that on a meaningful reading of the plaint
as submitted on behalf of the author it was contended that neither was
there a specific pleading to which portion of the BOOK was alleged
to be defamatory nor was the alleged defamatory innuendo pleaded
and that thus there was no cause of action whatsoever for the grant of
any injunction as claimed by the Petitioner. Inter alia it was submitted
on behalf of the author that the Court could not take into account
portions of a publication which the Plaintiff himself had not identified
in his plaint to be defamatory and by considering portions extraneous
to the plaint, the Court would be said to be stepping into the shoes of a
Plaintiff which course is totally impermissible in law and that the
alleged defamatory portions had to be affirmed by way of affidavit in
the Plaint. The author has further submitted that indicating vaguely
some portions of the BOOK as defamatory in the plaint, expanding on
the same during the different stages of arguments was a never ending
exercise and was totally impermissible. 91. It was also submitted on behalf of the author that the
requirement of identifying the alleged defamatory portions was also
founded upon principles of natural justice so that the defendant had an
opportunity to meet the case propounded and that a Plaintiff could not
be permitted to play hide and seek and disclose what it alleged to be CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 95 of 211 defamatory portions only during the course of arguments. Inter alia
the author submits that the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein in various
portions of his plaint had stated that an ‗attempt' had been made to
defame or that an ‗attempt' had been made to raise a finger of
suspicion but that a mere attempt unlike criminal law, was not
actionable in civil law. It was further submitted on behalf of the
author that the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein had not made any
specific allegation of falsity in the plaint and that in the absence of
categorical and clear allegations of falsity, no case of defamation or
seeking injunction could be said to have been made. The author
further referred to the factum that the plaintiff i.e. the Petitioner herein
had in his plaint misrepresented the contents of the BOOK and had
under the garb of reproducing the extract @ page 113 to 118 of CM
(M) 556/2018: 92. The author has further submitted that the petitioner as plaintiff
of the suit had also suppressed various materials available in the
public domain prior to publication of the BOOK and that the plaintiff
had neither made any reference to these prior publications nor had
adduced the same before the learned trial Court and that thus the
petitioner herein was not entitled to any interim relief. 93. It was also submitted on behalf of the author that as the author
had filed her own affidavit in support of her stand and had
categorically stated more than once that nothing contained in the
BOOK was false and also pleaded justification through various
modes for different portions of the BOOK such as fair comment, fair
reporting, journalistic privilege, honest beliefs etc., no injunction
could be granted for publication of the BOOK. It was also submitted
by the author that in view of the verdict in Khushwant Singh and His
Holiness Shamar Rimpoche as laid down by this Court that once the
Author was willing to face trial and was willing to justify the
publication, even if the publication was defamatory, the injunction
could not be and ought not be granted and the only remedy for a
plaintiff would be to seek damages. It was also submitted on behalf of
the author that the rule was absolute and was based upon judicial
experience of matters relating to defamation where actions are
invariably initiated as a method to stifle freedom of speech. 94. The author further submitted that no injunction could be and
should be granted since the plaintiff had adequate remedy to seek
damages and that the Court should invariably not grant an injunction
to restrain the publication of defamatory material (assuming that such
is the case, for arguments) as it would be unreasonable to fetter the
freedom of speech before the full trial takes place. 95. The author has further submitted that the BOOK itself contains
a detailed list of sources and interviews of persons who she had
interviewed which has not been denied by the plaintiff. Inter alia the
author submitted that prior publications in print and electronic media CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 97 of 211 numerous times in past from which the author has drawn and which
have drawn from the prior publications and remained in public
domain without any objections from the plaintiff. It is further
submitted that the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein is a person about
whom innumerable publications had been made and it was impossible
for any person to even attempt to collate all of them or to file them
before the Court and that the Court must also take judicial notice of
the prior publications and material available in public domain about
the Plaintiff, i.e., the petitioner herein especially his own authorized
biography and other books on him. It has been submitted on behalf of
the author that the petitioner i.e. the plaintiff of the suit having not
stated about alleged objectionable portions of the BOOK having been
reported previously and having been in public domain and having
suppressed the various prior publications and information available in
public domain, such suppression by itself is a ground for dismissal of
the plaint. The author further submitted that the Petitioner having
suppressed the factum of his having participated in addressing the
alleged controversies in media i.e. print and electronic wherein he had
publicly spoken of and addressed these by airing his perspective/point
of view and that many times the plaintiff referred to such
controversies to be "politically motivated" or having been made at the
behest of then ruling Government or being "wicked conspiracy" and
had addressed them in many press conferences and that the BOOK
has very candidly and fairly given the version of the Plaintiff as well. 96. Inter alia it has been submitted on behalf of the author that the
factum of prior publication leads to a conclusion that at least for the
purpose of injunction that: 97. It is however essential to observe that the disappearance of
Shankar Dev, the petitioner's mentor is depicted in the BOOK as
follows: 98. It is further submitted on behalf of the author that every
repetitive publication may or may not give rise to a fresh cause of
action but that in the instant case, there is no case made out for grant
of injunction and the contention of the petitioner herein that every
repetition gives rise to a fresh cause of action he seeks to
mischaracterize the issue at hand inasmuch as the question involved in
the present matter is not whether in a case repetition of publication
gives rise to cause of action but whether injunction should be granted
in a scenario where there have been multiple prior publications. The
author further submitted that no further damage could be caused by CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 105 of 211 re-publication or repeating the publication so as to warrant the
injunction to restrain the freedom of speech. The author further
submits that the conclusion of the BOOK is in the nature of a
comment i.e. a fair comment which is arrived after 24 chapters of the
BOOK and that the BOOK is an extremely balanced account and
contains various portions which are laudatory of the Petitioner also. It
is essential to advert to the conclusion of the BOOK which reads to
the effect that: 99. A further submission raised on behalf of the author is that for
judging a publication the standard ought to be not that of a over-
sensitive man and that furthermore the standard in relation to a public
figure where the public persona is extremely high, and higher the
persona, higher is the threshold for defamation and it is submitted by CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 110 of 211 the author that nothing contained in the BOOK is defamatory and the
BOOK is to be read as a whole and stray sentences cannot be picked
out. The author further submits that public figures like public officials
have to be subjected to searching criticism and further submits that
public has an interest, and in fact a deep interest, in knowing all sides
to the persona of, and events surrounding, a public figure and that
public figures like the Plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein seek to shape
public opinions, canvass for political parties in elections and
participate in all kinds of public debates, influence the lives of
millions, are emulated by others, and therefore all aspects of their
lives must, in a democratic society be scrutinized closely. The author
further submitted that there is a lot of value in engaging in uninhibited
debate about the actions and omissions of public figures and taking
into account the factum that public figures have access to mass media,
and the opportunity of counter criticism of their views and activities,
the public officials / public figures cannot seek to silence or restrain
the speech. The author nevertheless submits that in any event the
BOOK gives an extremely balanced account where the version of the
plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein has been duly noted and published.
The author further submits that without prejudice to her submissions
that there is nothing defamatory in the BOOK and that public figures
like the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein cannot be too thin skinned in
reference to the comments or observations or opinions or any other
matter as regards them or in respect of events surrounding them and
that the standard in law for defamation in relation to public figures is
that of a "crank" and "an enthusiast" and law rather mandates that CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 111 of 211 even if public figures know from the bottom of their hearts that
publications are undeserved, they must even submit to be
misunderstood. The author further submits that this approach has been
rightly adopted in law to give freedom of speech widest amplitude
which is the most cherished freedom in a democracy. 100. The author further submits that the verdicts of this Court in
His Holiness Shamar Rimpoche, Shashi Tharoor, Khushwant Singh
show that inferences of defamation are not to be drawn easily and that
injunctions are invariably never granted in the cases of public figures.
The author further submits that there is a vital public interest in
obtaining information about a public figure and that public interest is
the matter of freedom of speech and is to be construed liberally and
furthermore, an approach which does not chill the speech needs to be
adopted. The author further relied on the verdict in Khushwant Singh
and Indu Jain to contend that BOOK is in public interest and to judge
whether a publication is in public interest or not, each sentence or
paragraph or chapter is not to be analysed to ascertain if the same
would serve any 'public interest', and to attempt to identify what that
public interest / public goal might be and that such a microscopic
approach is totally impermissible and unwarranted in law. The entire
publication is to be read as a whole. The author further submits that in
law, a matter which is "of interest to public" is also in public interest,
and the standards for "public interest" from different arenas e.g. public
interest petitions etc are not to be imported in the matters of freedom
of speech. 101. It has been submitted on behalf of the author that if the
public figure is to be construed too rigidly or if the authors are to be
held liable for every inaccuracy and that nothing contained in the
BOOK is inaccurate, the same would amount to 'chilling' of speech
which is a widely accepted constitutional principle and that in such a
situation not only false speech will be deterred but the authors will be
deterred from voicing their criticism, even though it is believed to be
true and even though it is in fact true, because of doubt whether it can
be proved in Court or fear of the expense of having to do so. The
author further submits that in such an event no author would even
want to then ever write or talk about anything that is controversial for
the fear of being unable to prove and that on account of this, even in
defamation actions, the law does not even require 'truth' to be
'absolute truth' but only 'substantial truth' and that in any case, the
truthfulness or falsity are to be determined only in trial. 102. The author further submitted to the effect that no consent of
the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein is at any stage required and that
there is no violation of the right to privacy inasmuch as freedom of
speech cannot be made conditional on the mercy of the subject about
whom something is sought to be written and that if consent were to be
mandatory for any writing to be made on public figures that would be
the end of freedom of speech as seldom would a public figure allow
something that does not soothe his/her ears or does not propagate
his/her agenda and further submits that unless the matters pertain to
and impinge on the right to privacy of an individual, consent for any
publication is not mandatory from the person concerned. The author CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 113 of 211 further submits that the Petitioner herein i.e. the plaintiff of the suit
apart from having not claimed any right to privacy had in fact
waived/relinquished the same by his conduct for all times. The author
further submits that the Petitioner himself has his authorized
biography written by Sandeep Dev- Swami Ramdev- Ek Yogi - Ek
Yodhha in which he has given a detail of his own family life and life
in early childhood, details of his education and educational institutes
he attended, friendship with Acharya Balkrishna, and injuries of Baba
Ramdev. It is submitted by the author that it has been revealed in
detail in the said biography that he was called 'petul' in his childhood
for being fat, he belonged to a poor family, and that he was regularly
beaten up by his father or that once he was alleged to be a thief etc. 103. Inter alia the author submits that the plaintiff of the suit i.e.
the petitioner herein is not affirmed any pleadings himself on oath and
has taken no stand on affidavit himself and if any averment is found to
be false, who would the Court proceed against and it is thus submitted
by the author that the suit has not been duly instituted and has also not
been appropriately valued for the purpose of injunction. Inter alia the
author submits that though there are certain inaccuracies in the
BOOK, the inaccuracies cannot be termed to be defamatory. 104. The written submissions submitted on behalf of the publisher
i.e. Juggernaut Books Private Limited and Anrs. and submissions
made, seek to contend that the scope of revision in the present
petitions i.e. CM(M)556/18 & CM(M)557/18 is limited to the narrow
examination of whether the impugned order of the learned Appellate
Judge was absolutely perverse, arbitrary or unsustainable and the said CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 114 of 211 jurisdiction ought not to be traversed by this Court. The publisher
further submits that the learned Appellate Judge was duty bound to
overturn the injunction of the impugned order as the learned Trial
Court has completely overlooked the settled principles of law and
ignored the pleading and documents on the record. 105. The publisher further submits that there is a binding law on
injunctions inasmuch as law in Delhi follows the Bonnard principle as laid down by this Hon'ble Court in Khushwant Singh v. Maneka
Gandhi , Tata Sons Ltd. V. Greenpeace International , His Holiness
Shamar Rimpoche v. Lea Terhune , and Indu Jain v. Forbes Inc.
The publisher further submits that where a defendant in a civil suit for
defamation pleads justification, then no interim injunction can be
granted, and in the event that the said defendant were to fail in his
defence, damages would be an adequate remedy and states that the
remedy even in U.K. would be adequate damages. The publisher
further contended that both the author and the publisher have
unequivocally committed to standing by the truth of the statements
made in the BOOK and the fairness of comments and conclusions
reached, both before the Trial Court and the Appellate Court bring
forth the justification has been arrived at and submits further that none
of the allegedly defamatory statements had been made for the first
time inasmuch as there was acquiescence and no irreparable harm
could possibly be caused to the reputation of the petitioner. The
publisher contends that the petitioner has contended that his right to
privacy has been infringed but that this claim is not made in the plaint
by the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner herein and is thus irrelevant and that CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 115 of 211 the petitioner being a public figure, the facts of his life are already in
public domain and that he has also authorized his biographies and
given television serials about his life and he volunteered his life for
public examination. The publisher further submits that the author has
taken news articles and books placed on record by the petitioner
which pertains to the facts to which the petitioner has now taken
umbrage after knowingly not responding to the criticism for decades
and cannot now claim to be entitled to an injunction against the
defendant. Inter alia the publisher submitted that the repetition rule is
irrelevant and whether or not repetition of a libel would still be libel is
a separate question, but the fact that it has been often repeated and
acquiesced to would be sufficient to deny the petitioner an injunction. 106. The author further submits that the judgments of this Court in Sardar Charanjit Singh v. Arun Purie l983 ( 4) DRJ 86, Khushwant
Singh v. Maneka Gandhi AIR 2002 Del 58 and Indu Jain v. Forbes
Inc. 2007 SCC Online Del 1424 caution Courts from granting
injunctions where public persons are the subject, because, (a) it is in public interest that people know about their doings, even
in their personal lives, because they may affect public interest and ; (b) they exercise disproportionate control over the media and can
issue correctives and widely publish denials and comments and it has
further been submitted on behalf of the publisher that in term of
verdict in ―Phoolan Devi Vs. Shekhar Kapoor‖ 1995 (32) DRJ,
there is now no meaningful defence between public officials and
public figures and law. 107. The publisher further submits that the contention of the
petitioner that because the publisher has placed a standard disclaimer CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 116 of 211 in the BOOK, the publisher has no right to claim justification is
insufficient to bring forth that the disclaimer has never been treated as
a defence by the publisher and that the defence has been waived in the
written statement and furthermore, the publisher has already stated
that it categorically stands by the BOOK and if there is anything
defamatory in the BOOK, damages are the only remedy. The
publisher further reiterates that there is no infirmity in the impugned
order of the Appellate Court and that it proceeds on the principles in
vacating the injunction that are endorsed in " Wander Ltd. v Antox
India P. Ltd. , 1990 Supp SCC 727." inasmuch as the order of the
Trial Court was bad because
 i. The plaint and the application were neither specific nor
 categorical of falsity; the respondents i.e. the publisher and the author as
 25,000/- copies of the BOOK were already in the
 market. 108. It has further been submitted on behalf of the publisher that
the BOOK was not a defamatory BOOK of the petitioner and was
rather laudatory in tone and wherever it discussed the criticism of the
petitioner, it presents the defence or response of the petitioner as well. The publisher further submits that it was not defamatory to discuss the
fact that a person was criticized nor was it necessarily defamatory
when one criticized a person and that when facts were stated, those
facts were true, and where a comment was made, that comment was a
fair one. 109. The publisher further submits that as of now at the stage of
revision from appeal, the petitioner has sought to build a case on the
basis of a documents which were not formally on record before the
Trial Court or the Appellate Court and that the order of the CBI Court
was only formally filed before the Trial Court and that even if it was
assumed without conceding that it was at variance with any statement,
no conclusion of libel can be drawn from it. Inter alia the publisher
submits that the death certificate of Mr. Rajeev Dixit has been
produced for the first time before this Court in revision and in any
case does not directly contradict any fact stated in the BOOK. The
publisher further submits that the contention of the petitioner with
regard to the murder of Swami Yogananda is even less persuasive and
that the report of the police officer reported in the BOOK must
necessarily be called an untrace report is merely a difference in
nomenclature and not even a whisper of falsity is borne out and that
all these facts or documents are best tested at trial, and not at the stage
of ad-interim injunction. 110. It is essential to advert to Chapter IX of the BOOK which reads
as follows: 111. In rejoinder to the submissions that have been made on
behalf of the author and the publisher, on behalf of the petitioner it has CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 119 of 211 been submitted that the contentions raised by the respondents that the
excerpts as reproduced in the plaint are not present in the BOOK and
are rearranged to be produced in the Court is an erroneous submission
and that the excerpts are identical to articles either authorized by the
respondent i.e. the author which aspect has been adverted to in the
plaint which reads to the effect:- And also the content of the book vide Page No.201, Content title Conclusion 25 Para No. 1 & 2 reveals the following content- 112. On behalf of the petitioner it is submitted that the contention
raised on behalf of the respondent that the petitioner could not seek a
restraint of further publication in view of the prior publications of
purportedly stated allegations by third parties, alleging that the
petitioner had acquiesced to the defamatory allegations could not be
contended in common law submitting to the effect that the rule of
repetition provides that if one repeats a rumour, one cannot say it is
true by simply proving that the rumour in fact is in existence, but
rather one would have to prove that the subject matter of the rumour is
true and reliance was once again placed on behalf of the petitioner on
―Gatley on Libel and Slander (Sweet & Maxwell, 12 th Edition),
paragraph 11.18 which reads to the effect:- and on the verdict in ―Rosalyn Jane Mark V. Associated
Newspapers (2002) EWCA Civil 772 with specific reference to Para
29 & 35 thereof which read to the effect:- rather than perhaps confined merely to the
 reporting of statements (attributed and
 unadopted) by both sides to a political dispute- I
 reject entirely the argument that the repetition
 rule as such needs changing. To regard
 reportage as being incapable of harming a
 person's reputation would be to introduce into
 the law a fiction which the repetition rule is
 designed to avoid. Furthermore, as I sought to
 point out in both Stern -v- Piper and Al-Fagih,
 abolishing the repetition rule would make a
 nonsense of the law of qualified privilege. 113. The petitioner further contended that it is also a settled rule of
common law rule that consent must be clear and unequivocal and the
nature of publication would be relevant for ascertaining such consent
with reference made to Paragraph 19.10 & 19.11 in ―Gatley on Libel
and Slander (Sweet & Maxwell, 12th Edition)" with reference to Section 3 which reads to the effect:- 114. The petitioner further submits that there is a substantial
difference in a newspaper article which is never republished and a
BOOK which is written by purportedly a Swami Ramdev Expert and
an internationally acclaimed journalist. 115. The petitioner has further submitted that in any event prior
publications were distinguishable inasmuch as the respondents did not
point out that each of these publications were prior to the acceptance
of the CBI closure report dated 13.02.2015 and were in most instances
entirely non-descript web pages and web sites and it could not be
expected that the petitioner herein is supposed to search for such
obscure web sites and conversations on social media platforms to see
whether people were defaming him. The petitioner has further
submitted that the contention of the respondents that the impugned
publication was based on numerous sources including interviews
conducted with the petitioner had not been pleaded in the written
statements of the author and the publisher that had been submitted
before the learned Trial Court and that the defence sought to be put
forth is a complete afterthought made for the first time to the Court
and is contrary to the author's own stand in the BOOK. ANALYSIS
PUBLIC PERCEPTION 116. As regards the contention raised on behalf of the respondents
that it is the standard of a normal reasonable person of the public
which has to be gauged to ascertain whether the BOOK or its CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 129 of 211 portions are prima facie defamatory, it is essential to advert to the
perceptions of members of the public which have been perused by this
Court as indicated to be uploaded on the internet prior to the restraint
order of the ACJ-cum-CCJ-AR, KKD, Delhi dated 04.08.2017, e.g. an
article dated 07.12.2017 by one Mr. Sanjeev Kotnala who after
reading the BOOK gives a review on the BOOK stating that he
purchased the BOOK before it was banned which reads to the
effect...... ―there is hardly a place where the author pushes her
 point of view or tries to bias the reader. Nevertheless,
 there seems to be a skew in this reporting. And that is
 what makes Baba wanting to prevent you from
 reading it. ............. As a reader, it makes you
 question circumstantial evidence and murky
 happenings. Ramdev's life story is dotted by a
 mysterious murder, an odd disappearance, and a
 death under curious circumstances. He seems to have
 associated with people for his benefit and serving his
 ambitions. Once they have fulfilled the need and are no
 longer required, he has been quick enough to
 dissociate. The book makes him a power hunger
 political ambitious person lurking behind a legitimate
 or otherwise Ayurveda business. Good enough a
 description for a villain.‖
 (emphasis supplied) 117. A BOOK review dated 05.10.2017 of the BOOK by one
Mr. Amit Dass inter alia states to the effect that the suspicious death
of Swami Yogananda/Rajeev Dixit, to the less talked about
marginalization of Shankar Dev. The review dated 13.08.2017 of the
BOOK of one Mr. Ankit Agarwal concludes as follows:- 118. A review dated 27.08.2017 uploaded despite the Court
injunction dated 04.08.2017 states:- 119. The article uploaded on the internet dated 18.08.2017 with
reference to the Court order banning the publication of BOOK of the
publisher states:- 120. The Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 , Section 2 (d) thereof defines human rights which reads to the effect:- 121. In terms of the verdict of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
Vishakha vs. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1997 SC 3011 and the verdict
of this Court in Neelam Katara Vs. Union of India & Ors. (2003)
ILR 2 Delhi 377, till the time there is a legislation made, the
international covenants ratified by India though not yet legislated in
the absence of any domestic legislation to the contrary, would be
enforceable by the Courts in India. 122. Thus, the right to reputation in terms of the Human Rights
Act, 1998 and the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 8 and Article 10 falls within the rights and fundamental freedoms set
forth in the schedule in terms of Section 1 (3) of the said enactment
enacted on 09.11.1998 which is adverted to hereinbelow which vide
clause 2 of Article 10 circumscribes the exercise of the freedom of
expression since it carries with its duties and responsibilities subject to CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 132 of 211 such formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as prescribed by
law and are necessary in a democratic society inter alia for the
protection of the reputation or rights of others and there being no
domestic law in violation of the terms of the said International
Covenant, the said International Covenant in terms of the verdict of
the Hon'ble Apex Court in Vishakha's case (supra) as laid down by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court and in Neelam Yadav's case (supra) and
as laid down in the verdict in Justice Puttuswamy v. Union of India (supra) as explained by the Hon'ble High Court of Madras in Ms.
Kanimozhi Karunanidhi vs Thiru. P. Varadarajan (supra), the right
to reputation falls within the expanded right of privacy, violation of
which right of privacy as contended by the petitioner is to be in
violation of his fundamental rights. 123. Articles 8 & 10 of the Schedule-I of Part-I of the Human Rights
Act, 1998 framed in terms of the European Convention on Human
Rights read to the effect : ...... ...... .... Article 10 Freedom of expression 1.Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This
 right shall include freedom to hold opinions and to
 receive and impart information and ideas without
 interference by public authority and regardless of
 frontiers. This Article shall not prevent States from
 requiring the licensing of broadcasting, television or
 cinema enterprises. 2.The exercise of these freedoms, since it carries with it
 duties and responsibilities, may be subject to such
 formalities, conditions, restrictions or penalties as are
 prescribed by law and are necessary in a democratic
 society, in the interests of national security, territorial
 integrity or public safety, for the prevention of disorder
 or crime, for the protection of health or morals, for the
 protection of the reputation or rights of others, for
 preventing the disclosure of information received in
 confidence, or for maintaining the authority and
 impartiality of the judiciary. APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE 227
 AND SECTION 115 OF THE CPC 124. As regards the contention raised on behalf of the respondents
to the effect that this Court ought not to go into the merits or demerits
of the contentions raised by the parties in exercise of its revisional
jurisdiction or supervisory jurisdiction in terms of Article 227 of the
Constitution of India under which the petitions have been filed or read
with Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, inasmuch as
this Court ought not to impose its own view on consideration of the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 134 of 211 record merely because another view may be taken, it is essential to
observe that both in terms of Section 115 (1) (b) and Section 115 Sub-
clause (1)(c) this Court may make such order as it thinks fit where it
appears to this Court that the Court subordinate to it appears to have
failed to exercise jurisdiction so vested or has acted in the exercise of
its jurisdiction illegally or qua material irregularity, or in terms of Article 227 of the Constitution which confers inter alia judicial
superintendence over the subordinate Courts apart from
administrative, though undoubtedly the jurisdiction vested under Article 227 of the Constitution of India and under Section 115 of the
Code of Civil Procedure ought to be exercised sparingly and only in
an appropriate case, the aspect of consideration of the same cannot be
obliviated and has necessarily to be assessed and ascertained by this
Court on consideration in exercise of jurisdiction in accordance with
law. It is thus on this threshold of the impugned order being in
accordance with law or otherwise and being in exercise or otherwise
of jurisdiction vested in the Court which ought to be exercised when
such jurisdiction exists and circumstances so warrant, that the
contentions raised on behalf of either side, shall be considered herein. BALANCING OF THE RIGHT TO REPUTATION WITH
THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION 125. The contention of the respondents has been that freedom of
speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of
India is supreme and cannot in any manner be qualified by the
contentions raised in civil disputes contending that the right to CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 135 of 211 freedom of speech and expression be regulated in a manner that it
does not circumscribe or a impinge on another's right to reputation.
The said contention clearly cannot be accepted. This is so in as much
as ruled in Charu Khurana v. Union of India : AIR (2015) 839,
dignity is a quintessential quality of a personality, for it is a highly
cherished value as observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
Subramniam Swamy v. Union of India: 2016 7 SCC 227 laying
down further vide paragraph 133 thereof, thus perceived the right to
honour, dignity and reputation are the basic constituents of the right
to life under Article 21. The verdict in Subramniam Swamy (supra)
categorically observes that to state that the right to reputation can be
impinged and remains unprotected inter se private disputes pertaining
to reputation would not be correct and also lays down vide paragraph
144 of the said verdict that ― reputation‖ of one cannot be allowed to
be crucified at the altar of the other's right of free speech and that the
balance between the two rights needs to be struck and that the
reputation being an inherent component of Article 21 of the
Constitution of India, it should not be allowed to be sullied only
because another individual can have its freedom. Undoubtedly, when
there is an abridgement and the reasonable restrictions imposed so that
both right exists, such an abridgement or restriction has only to be to
the extent what is absolutely necessary. 126. The observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in paragraphs
133 to 144 of the verdict of the Subramaniam Swamy (supra) are to
the effect: 134. In this context, we also think it apt to
 quote a passage from Edmund Burke:- 135. The thoughts of the aforesaid two thinkers,
 as we understand, are not contrary to each
 other. They relate to different situations and
 conceptually two different ideas; one speaks of
 an attitude of compromising liberty by
 accepting chains and slavery to save life and
 remain in peace than to death, and the other
 view relates to "qualified civil liberty" and
 needed control for existence of the Patrick
 Henry, Speech in House of Burgesses on
 23.3.1775 (Virginia) 126 Alfred Howard, The
 Beauties of Burke (T. Davison, London) 109
 140 society. Contexts are not different and
 reflect one idea. Rhetorics may have its own
 place when there is disproportionate restriction
 but acceptable restraint subserves the social
 interest. In the case at hand, it is to be seen
 whether right to freedom and speech and
 expression can be allowed so much room that
 even reputation of an individual which is a
 constituent of Article 21 would have no entry
 into that area. To put differently, in the name
 of freedom of speech and expression, should
 one be allowed to mar the other's reputation CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 138 of 211 as is understood within the ambit of
 defamation as defined in criminal law. 136. To appreciate what we have posed
 hereinabove, it is necessary to dwell upon
 balancing the fundamental rights. It has been
 argued by the learned counsel for the
 petitioners that the right conferred under Article 19(1)(a) has to be kept at a different
 pedestal than the individual reputation which
 has been recognized as an aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution. In fact the submission is
 that right to freedom of speech and expression
 which includes freedom of press should be
 given higher status and the individual's right
 to have his/her reputation should yield to the
 said right. In this regard a passage from Sakal
 Papers (P) Ltd. (supra) has been commended
 us. It says:- That is the plain meaning of this clause. It CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 139 of 211 follows from this that the State cannot make a
 law which directly restricts one freedom even
 for securing the better enjoyment of another
 freedom." 137. Having bestowed our anxious
 consideration on the said passage, we are
 disposed to think that the above passage is of
 no assistance to the petitioners, for the issue
 herein is sustenance and balancing of the
 separate rights, one under Article 19(1)(a) and the other, under Article 21. Hence, the
 concept of equipose and counterweighing
 fundamental rights of one with other person.
 not a case of mere better enjoyment of
 another freedom. In Acharya Maharajshri
 Narendra Prasadji Anandprasadji Maharaj
 and others v. The State of Gujarat and
 others127, it has been observed that a
 particular fundamental right cannot exist in
 isolation in a watertight compartment. One
 fundamental right of a person may have to co- exist in harmony with the exercise of another
 fundamental right by others and also with
 reasonable and valid exercise of power by the
 State in the light of the Directive Principles in
 the interests of social welfare as a whole. The
 Court's duty is to strike a balance between
 competing claims of different interests. In Delhi Transport Corporation v. D.T.C.
 Mazdoor Congress and others128 the Court
 has ruled that Articles relating to fundamental
 rights are all parts of an integrated scheme in
 the Constitution and their waters must mix to
 constitute that grand flow of unimpeded and
 impartial justice; social, economic and
 political, and of equality of status and
 opportunity which imply absence of
 unreasonable or unfair discrimination between CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 140 of 211 individuals or groups or classes. In St.
 Stephen's College v. University of Delhi129 this Court while emphasizing the need for
 balancing the fundamental rights observed
 that: 138. In Mr ‗X' v. Hospital ‗Z'130 this Court
 stated that,
 "44.....where there is a clash of two
 Fundamental Rights, the right to privacy as
 part of right to life and Ms ‗Y's right to lead a
 healthy life which is her Fundamental Right
 under Article 21 , the right which would
 advance the public morality or public interest,
 would alone be enforced through the process of
 court, for the reason that moral considerations
 cannot be kept at bay and the Judges are not
 expected to sit as mute structures of clay in the
 hall known as the courtroom, but have to be
 sensitive, "in the sense that they must keep their
 fingers firmly upon the pulse of the accepted
 morality of the day". That apart, we would also add that there has to
 be emphasis on advancement of public or
 social interest. 139. In Post Graduate Institute of Medical
 Education & Research, Chandigarh v. Faculty
 Association and others131 while emphasizing
 the need to balance the fundamental rights, this
 Court held that:- 140. In Ram Jethmalani and others v. Union of
 India and others132 it has been held that the
 rights of citizens, to effectively seek the
 protection of fundamental rights have to be
 balanced against the rights of citizens and
 persons under Article 21. The latter cannot be
 sacrificed on the anvil of fervid desire to find
 instantaneous solutions to systemic problems
 through defamation speech, for it would lead
 to dangerous circumstances and anarchy may
 become the order of the day. 141. In Sahara India Real Estate Corporation
 Ltd. (supra) while describing the role of this
 Court in balancing the fundamental rights, the
 Constitution Bench observed that the Supreme
 Court is not only the sentinel of the
 fundamental rights but also a balancing wheel
 between the rights, subject to social control.
 The larger Bench further observed that:- 142. In Maneka Gandhi (supra), it has been
 held:- Krishna Iyer, J., in his concurring opinion, has
 observed thus:- Beg, J. has stated that:- 143. In Mohd. Arif alias Ashfaq v. Registrar ,
 Supreme Court of India and others133,
 wherein the majority in the Constitution Bench
 has observed that the fundamental right to life
 among all fundamental rights is the most
 precious to all human beings. 144. The aforementioned authorities clearly
 state that balancing of fundamental rights is a
 constitutional necessity. It is the duty of the
 Court to strike a balance so that the values are
 sustained. The submission is that continuance
 of criminal defamation under Section 499 IPC is constitutionally inconceivable as it
 creates a serious dent in the right to freedom
 of speech and expression. It is urged that to
 have defamation as a component of criminal
 law is an anathema to the idea of free speech
 which is recognized under the Constitution
 and, therefore, criminalization of defamation
 in any form is an unreasonable restriction. We have already held that reputation is an
 inextricable aspect of right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution and the State in
 order to sustain and protect the said
 reputation of an individual has kept the
 provision under Section 499 IPC alive as a
 part of law. The seminal point is permissibility
 of criminal defamation as a reasonable
 restriction as understood under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. To elucidate, the
 submission is that criminal defamation, a pre-
 Constitution law is totally alien to the concept
 of free speech. As stated earlier, the right to
 reputation is a constituent of Article 21 of the
 Constitution. It is an individual's
 fundamental right and, therefore, balancing
 of fundamental right is imperative. The Court
 has spoken about synthesis and overlapping of
 fundamental rights, and thus, sometimes
 conflicts between two rights and competing
 values. In the name of freedom of speech and
 expression, the right of another cannot be
 jeopardized. In this regard, 148 reproduction
 of a passage from Noise Pollution (V), In re
 137 would be apposite. It reads as follows:- We are in respectful agreement with the
 aforesaid enunciation of law. Reputation
 being an inherent component of Article 21 , we
 do not think it should be allowed to be sullied
 solely because another individual can have its
 freedom. It is not a restriction that has an
 inevitable consequence which impairs
 circulation of thought and ideas. In fact, it is
 control regard being had to another person's
 right to go to Court and state that he has been
 wronged and abused. He can take recourse to
 a procedure recognized and accepted in law to
 retrieve and redeem his reputation. Therefore,
 the balance between the two rights needs to be
 struck. "Reputation" of one cannot be
 allowed to be crucified at the altar of the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 147 of 211 other's right of free speech. The legislature in
 its wisdom has not thought it appropriate to
 abolish criminality of defamation in the
 obtaining social climate.‖ 127. While speaking about reputation, William Hazlitt had to say:- 128. The International Covenants have already been adverted to
elsewhere herein above and the International Covenants have stressed
on the significance of reputation and honour in a person's life as
observed also in this verdict of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Subramaniam Swamy (Supra) to the effect:- 32. The International Covenant on Civil and
 Political Rights (CICCPR) contains similar
 provisions. Article 19 of the Covenant
 expressly subjects the right of expression to the
 rights and reputation of others. It reads thus:- 33. Articles 8 and 10 of the European
 Convention for the Protection of Human Rights
 and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) 61
 provide:- 32. The reference to international covenants
 has a definitive purpose. They reflect the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 150 of 211 purpose and concern and recognize reputation
 as an inseparable right of an individual. They
 juxtapose the right to freedom of speech and
 expression and the right of reputation thereby
 accepting restrictions, albeit as per law and
 necessity. That apart, they explicate 62 that the
 individual honour and reputation is of great
 value to human existence being attached to
 dignity and all constitute an inalienable part of
 a complete human being. To put it differently,
 sans these values, no person or individual can
 conceive the idea of a real person, for absence
 of these aspects in life makes a person a non- person and an individual to be an entity only in
 existence perceived without individuality. 129. As laid down in Vishakhas's case by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court as reproduced in Charu Khurana (supra): 130. The observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Subramaniam Swamy (Supra), in relation to the perception of CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 151 of 211 reputation as perceived in the Courts in the United Kingdom, the
Courts in South Africa and as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India, are reproduced as under: We quote:- The truth is that the word "character" is often
 used, and quite properly used, in the same
 sense as the word "reputation." Thus, when I
 say of a man that "He has always "borne a
 good character," I mean that he has always
 been thought well of by others: and when I
 want to know what his "character" is, I write,
 not to him, but to others who know something
 about him. In short, his "character" is the
 esteem in which he is held by others who know
 him and are in a position to judge his worth. A
 man can sue for damage to his character in this CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 152 of 211 sense, even though he is little known to the
 outside world. If it were said of Robinson
 Crusoe that he murdered Man Friday, he
 would have a cause of action, even though no
 one had ever heard of him before. But a man's
 "character," so understood, may become
 known to others beyond his immediate circle.
 In so far as the estimate spreads outwards
 from those who know him and circulates
 among people generally in an increasing
 range, it becomes his "reputation," which is
 entitled to the protection of the law just as
 much as his character. But here I speak only
 of a reputation which is built upon the
 estimate of those who know him. No other
 reputation is of any worth. The law can take
 no notice of a reputation which has no
 foundation except the gossip and rumour of
 busybodies who do not know the man. Test it
 this way. Suppose an honourable man becomes
 the victim of groundless rumour. He should be
 entitled to damages without having this
 wounding gossip dragged up against him. He
 can call people who know him to give evidence
 of his good character. On the other hand,
 suppose a "notorious rogue" manages to
 conceal his dishonesty from the world at large.
 He should not be entitled to damages on the
 basis that he is a man of unblemished
 reputation. There must, ones would think, be
 people who know him and can come and speak
 to his bad character." 37. In regard to the importance of protecting
 an individual's reputation Lord Nicholls of
 Birkenhead observed in Reynolds v. Times
 Newspapers Ltd16:- 38. While deliberating on possible balance
 between the right to reputation and freedom of
 expression, in Campbell v. MGN Ltd, it has
 been stated:- 39. In Wisconsin v. Constantineau18 it has
 been observed that:- 40. In Rosenblatt v. Baer19 Mr. Justice Stewart
 observed that:- 41. Hill v. Church of Scientology of Toronto
 1995 2 SCR 1130 Can SC CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 155 of 211 "(ii) The Reputation of the Individual 107. The other value to be balanced in a
 defamation action is the protection of the
 reputation of the individual. Although much has very properly been said
 and written about the importance of freedom of
 expression, little has been written of the
 importance of reputation. Yet, to most people,
 their good reputation is to be cherished above
 all. A good reputation is closely related to the
 innate worthiness and dignity of the individual.
 It is an attribute that must, just as much as
 freedom of expression, be protected by
 society's laws. In order to undertake the
 balancing required by this case, something
 must be said about the value of reputation. 108. Democracy has always recognized and
 cherished the fundamental importance of an
 individual. That importance must, in turn, be
 based upon the good repute of a person. It is
 that good repute which enhances an
 individual's sense of worth and value. False
 allegations can so very quickly and completely
 destroy a good reputation. A reputation
 tarnished by libel can seldom regain its
 former lustre. A democratic society, therefore,
 has an interest in ensuring that its members
 can enjoy and protect their good reputation so
 long as it is merited." 42. In the approach of the South African
 Courts, "human dignity" is one of the founding
 values of the South African Constitution
 (Clause 1). The Constitution protects dignity
 (clause 7), privacy (clause 14) and freedom of
 expression (clause 16). In Khumalo v. Holomisa, 2002 ZACC 12 the Court said:- 43. In Lindon v. France 2008 46 EHRR, Judge
 Loucaides, in his concurring opinion, held:-]
 "Accepting that respect for reputation is
 an autonomous human right, which
 derives its source from the Convention
 itself, leads inevitably to a more effective
 protection of the reputation of individuals
 vis-a-vis freedom of expression." In the said case, the Court has expressly
 recognised that protection of reputation is a
 right which is covered by the scope of the right
 to respect for one's private life under Article 8 of the Convention. In course of deliberations
 reference has been made to Chauvy and Others
 v. France23 , Abeberry v. France (dec. ), no. 58729/00, 21 September 2004; and White v. Sweden 2007 EMLR 1. 44. In Karako v. Hungary 2011 52 EHRR 36
 the Court has opined that:- 45. In Axel Springer AG v. Germany 2012
 55EHRR 6 ECHR it has been ruled:- The perspective of this Court 46. In Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay
 v. Dilipkumar Raghavendranath Nadkarni and
 others1983 1 SCC 124, the Court has opined
 that expression "Life" does not merely connote
 animal existence or a continued drudgery
 through life. Further, it proceeded to state
 thus:- 47. In Kiran Bedi v. Committee of Inquiry and
 another1989 1SCC 494, a three-Judge Bench,
 while dealing with the petition for quashing of
 the inquiry report against the petitioner
 therein, referred to Section 8-B of the
 Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 and opined
 that the importance has been attached with CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 160 of 211 regard to the matter of safeguarding the
 reputation of a person being prejudicially
 affected in clause (b) of Section 8-B of the
 Commissions of Inquiry Act. It is because
 reputation of an individual is a very ancient
 concept. The Court referred to the words of
 caution uttered by Lord Krishna to Arjun in
 Bhagwad Gita with regard to dishonour or loss
 of reputation; and proceeded to quote:- Thereafter, the Court referred to Blackstone's
 Commentary of the Laws of England, Vol. I,
 4th Edn., wherein it has been stated that the
 right of personal security consists in a person's
 legal and uninterrupted enjoyment of his life,
 his limbs, his body, his health and his
 reputation. Thereafter, advertence was made to
 the statement made in Corpus Juris Secundum,
 Vol. 77 at p. 268 which is to the following
 effect:- Be it noted a passage from D.F. Marion v. Davis 192755 ALR 171 Alabama, was
 reproduced with approval:- 48. In Gian Kaur v. State of Punjab30 , this
 Court observed that the right to reputation is a
 natural right. In Mehmood Nayyar Azam v. State of Chhatisgarh and others 2012 8 SCC 1,
 while discussing the glory of honourable life,
 the Court observed:- Elucidating further, the Court observed:- 49. In Vishwanath Agrawal v. Saral
 Vishwanath Agrawal 2012 7 SCC 288 this
 Court observed that reputation which is not
 only the salt of life, but also the purest treasure
 and the most precious perfume of life. It is a
 revenue generator for the present as well as for
 the posterity. In Umesh Kumar v. State of
 Andhra Pradesh and another 2013 10 SCC 591
 the Court observed that
 ― 18.....personal rights of a human being
 include the right of reputation. A good
 reputation is an element of personal security
 and is protected by the Constitution equally
 with the right to the enjoyment of life, liberty
 and property and as such it has been held to be
 a necessary element in regard to right to life of
 a citizen under Article 21 of the Constitution.
 The International Covenant on Civil and
 Political Rights, 1966 recognises right to have
 opinions and right to freedom of expression
 under Article 19 is subject to the right of
 reputation of others. 50. In Kishore Samrite v. State of Uttar
 Pradesh and others 2013 2 SCC 398, while
 dealing with the term "person" in the context of
 reputation, the Court after referring to the
 authorities in Kiran Bedi (supra) and Nilgiris
 Bar Association v. T.K. Mahalingam and
 another 1998 1 SCC 550 held that:- 51. In Om Prakash Chautala v. Kanwar Bhan
 and others 2014 5 SCC 417 it has been held
 that
 ― 1......reputation is fundamentally a glorious
 amalgam and unification of virtues which
 makes a man feel proud of his ancestry and
 satisfies him to bequeath it as a part of
 inheritance on posterity. It is a nobility in itself
 for which a conscientious man would never
 barter it with all the tea of China or for that
 matter all the pearls of the sea. The said virtue
 has both horizontal and vertical qualities.
 When reputation is hurt, a man is half-dead. It is an honour which deserves to be equally
 preserved by the downtrodden and the
 privileged. The aroma of reputation is an
 excellence which cannot be allowed to be
 sullied with the passage of time. It is dear to
 life and on some occasions it is dearer than
 life. And that is why it has become an
 inseparable facet of Article 21 of the
 Constitution. No one would like to have his
 reputation dented, and it is perceived as an
 honour rather than popularity. 52. In State of Gujarat and another v. Hon'ble
 High Court of Gujarat 1998 7 SCC 392, the
 court opined:- 53. We have dwelled upon the view of this
 Court as regards value of reputation and
 importance attached to it. We shall be obliged,
 as we are, to advert to some passages from the
 aforementioned authorities and also from other
 pronouncements to understand the Court's
 "accent" on reputation as an internal and
 central facet of right to life as projected under Article 21 of the Constitution at a later stage. 54. Having reconnoitered the assessment of
 the value of reputation and scrutinised the
 conceptual meaning of the term "reputation",
 we are required to weigh in the scale of
 freedom of speech and expression, especially
 under our Constitution and the nature of the
 democratic polity the country has.‖ 131. As observed in paragraph 195 of the said verdict the right to
free speech cannot mean that a citizen can defame the other and CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 166 of 211 protection of reputation is a fundamental right and also a human right
and cumulatively serves the social interest. Vide the paragraph 196 of
the said verdict, it has also been observed to the effect that the
submissions that imposition of silence will rule over eloquence of free
speech is a stretched concept in as much as the said proposition is
basically founded on the theory of absoluteness of the fundamental
right of freedom of speech and expression which the Constitution does
not countenance. CIVIL ACTION FOR INFRINGEMENT
 OF RIGHT TO REPUTATION 132. Though undoubtedly, the verdict of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Subramaniam Swamy (supra) relates to the aspect of
upholding the constitutional validity of Section 499 and 500 of the
Indian Penal Code,1860 and Section 199 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 nevertheless, the ambit of the right to reputation
under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and that it has necessary
existence in conjunction with the right to freedom of speech and
expression in a manner whereby both the fundamental rights of the
right of reputation inherent under Article 21 of the Constitution of
India and the right to freedom of speech and expression ordained
under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India are both to co-exist
in harmony and as a consequence thereof, as observed in paragraph
137 of the said verdict already adverted to herein above and also as
observed in Acharya Maharajshri Narendra Prasadji Anandprasadji
Maharaj and others v. The State of Gujarat and others 1975 (1)
SCC 127, it has been observed that a particular fundamental right CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 167 of 211 cannot exist in isolation in a watertight compartment and one
fundamental right of a person may have to co-exist in harmony with
the exercise of another fundamental right by others and also with
reasonable and valid exercise of power by the State in the light of the
Directive Principles in the interests of social welfare as a whole and
that it is essential to observe that as laid down vide paragraphs 68 and
69 of the said verdict which read to the effect: the right to civil action for infringement of the right to reputation and
thus to sue against defamation is a cause of action for which though
there being no codified law in India, civil action can be taken recourse
to under Section 9 of the CPC 1908 and thus the observation of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in relation to the ambit and contours of the
right to reputation as being inherent under Article 21 of the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 168 of 211 Constitution of India with which the right to freedom of speech and
expression under Article 19(1)(a) has to be balanced and that the right
to reputation cannot be sacrificed or crucified at the altar of the right
of freedom of speech and expression, has equal force in a civil action.
VERDICT IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 494 OF 2012 IN
JUSTICE K.S. PUTTASWAMY (RETD.) VS. UNION OF INDIA
AND OTHERS DATED 26.09.2018 133. The balancing of the fundamental right of the individual to his /
her reputation under Article 21 of the Constitution of India in co-
existence in harmony with the exercise of the right of freedom of
speech and expression of another under Article 19(1)(a) of the
Constitution of India has been upheld once again as brought forth
through the observations in paras 312, 313 and 314 of the majority
judgment in the famous Aadhar case, vide verdict dated 26.09.2018,
which read to the effect : - The conception of social interest has to be borne in mind
 while considering reasonableness of the restriction
 imposed on a right. The social interest principle would
 include the felt needs of the society. xx xx xx Balancing of fundamental rights 136. To appreciate what we have posed hereinabove, it is
 necessary to dwell upon balancing the fundamental
 rights. It has been argued by the learned counsel for the
 petitioners that the right conferred under Article
 19(1)(a) has to be kept at a different pedestal than the
 individual reputation which has been recognised as an CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 170 of 211 aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution. In fact the
 submission is that right to freedom of speech and
 expression which includes freedom of press should be
 given higher status and the individual's right to have
 his/her reputation should yield to the said right. In this
 regard a passage from Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. [Sakal
 Papers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India , (1962) 3 SCR 842 : 137. Having bestowed our anxious consideration on the
 said passage, we are disposed to think that the above
 passage is of no assistance to the petitioners, for the issue
 herein is sustenance and balancing of the separate
 rights, one under Article 19(1)(a) and the other,
 under Article 21. Hence, the concept of equipoise and
 counterweighing fundamental rights of one with other
 person. It is not a case of mere better enjoyment of
 another freedom. In Acharya Maharajshri Narendra CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 171 of 211 Prasadji Anandprasadji Maharaj v. State of Gujarat
 [Acharya Maharajshri Narendra Prasadji Anandprasadji
 Maharaj v. State of Gujarat, (1975) 1 SCC 11], it has
 been observed that a particular fundamental right cannot
 exist in isolation in a watertight compartment. One fundamental right of a person may have to coexist
 in harmony with the exercise of another fundamental
 right by others and also with reasonable and valid
 exercise of power by the State in the light of the directive
 principles in the interests of social welfare as a whole.
 The Court's duty is to strike a balance between
 competing claims of different interests... xx xx xx 194. Needless to emphasise that when a law limits a
 constitutional right which many laws do, such limitation
 is constitutional if it is proportional. The law imposing
 restriction is proportional if it is meant to achieve a
 proper purpose, and if the measures taken to achieve
 such a purpose are rationally connected to the purpose,
 and such measures are necessary. Such limitations
 should not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature beyond
 what is required in the interest of the public.
 Reasonableness is judged with reference to the objective
 which the legislation seeks to achieve, and must not be in
 excess of that objective (see P.P. Enterprises v. Union of
 India [P.P. Enterprises v. Union of India, (1982) 2 SCC
 33 : 1982 SCC (Cri) 341]). Further, the reasonableness is
 examined in an objective manner from the standpoint of
 the interest of the general public and not from the point
 of view of the person upon whom the restrictions are
 imposed or abstract considerations (see Mohd. Hanif
 Quareshi v. State of Bihar [Mohd. Hanif Quareshi v.
 State of Bihar, AIR 1958 SC 731]).‖ 313) Thus, even when two aspects of the fundamental
 rights of the same individual, which appear to be in
 conflict with each other, is done, we find that the
 Aadhaar Act has struck a fair balance between the right CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 172 of 211 of privacy of the individual with right to life of the same
 individual as a beneficiary. In the face of the all pervading prescript for
 accomplished socio-economic rights, that need to be
 given to the deprived and marginalised section of the
 society, as the constitutional imperative embodied in
 these provisions of the Act, it is entitled to receive judicial
 imprimatur. Re : Argument on Exclusion: APPLICABILITY OF RULE IN BONNARD V. PERRYMAN 134. The other contentions raised on behalf of the respondents is that
in view of the principle in Bonnard v. Perryman [1891 2 ( Ch) 269],
Khushwant Singh v. Maneka Gandhi (2001) SCC Online Del 1030,
Tata Sons v. Greenpeace International 2011 SCC Online Del 466,
His Holiness Shamar Rimpoche v. Lea Terhune , and Indu Jain v.
Forbes Inc. 2007 SCC Online Del 1424 of this Court that where
defendant in the civil suit of defamation pleads justification, there is
no interim injunction can be granted and in the event that the said
defendant were to file in its defence, damages would be an adequate
remedy. 135. The verdict of this Court in Bhaichung Bhutia Vs. Saumik
Dutta & Ors. (2014) 215 DLT 415 spells out elopently as under : - 136. It is essential to observe that the plea of fair comment implies
making of a genuine effort to reach truth and a mere belief of there
being truth without there being reasonable grounds for such plea is not
synonymous with fair comment. 137. The verdict of this Court in Ajay Aggarwal Vs. Vinod Mehta &
Ors. 102 (2003) DLT 774 lays down categorically that mere belief of
the printer / publisher that the report is incorrect would not be a
defence unless that they had acted with due care and question. 138. Reliance has been placed on behalf of the respondents on the
verdict of this court in Indo Jain Vs. Forbes Incorporated I.A.
12993/2006 in CS(OS) 2172/2006 decided on 21.10.2007 to contend
that the plea of justification is available to them and that thus if there
is inaccuracy and incorrectness of publication established, the
adequate remedy would only be in damages and not by an ad-interim
injunction, which cannot be accepted in as much as there was a pre-
publication to the information given by the defendants in that case to
the plaintiff of that case of the methodology that the defendant would
adopt for computation of wealth of the plaintiff therein to place her
wealth on to a website of the Times of India. The facts of the case in
Indu Jain Vs. Forbes Incorporated (supra) are thus not in pari
materia with the facts of the present case. 139. Reliance placed on behalf of the respondents on the verdict of
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in R. Rajagopal and Ors. Vs. State of CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 176 of 211 Tamil Nadu and Ors. (1994) 6SCC 632 the facts of which likewise
are not in pari materia with the facts of the instant case in as much as
the publishers therein have been held entitled to publish the life
story/autobiography of Auto Shanker in so far as it appeared from the
public records, even without his consent or authorization. In the
instant case the avowed contentions of the petitioner have been that as
regards the publication in "Chapter 16 Mystery 2 : The Guru‟s
Disappearance" in the BOOK to implicitly state that the petitioner
was somehow involved or complicit in the disappearance of his Guru
Shanker Dev Ji and that further he, the petitioner having used his
influence with the Government was able to scuttle the investigation
which was not handled in a fair and transparent manner, coupled with
the factum that the said publication came to the knowledge of the
petitioner on 29.07.2017 after the Special Judicial Magistrate
(CBI)/ACJM(I) Dehradun vide order dated 13.02.2015 accepted the
closure report filed by the CBI in this matter, which aspect was not
adverted to by the author and thus in view of the order dated
13.02.2015 of the Special Judicial Magistrate (CBI)/ACJM(I)
Dehradun in case No. 1428/14 vide which the closure report
submitted by the CBI in relation to the missing report for Guru
Shanker Devi Ji at PS Khankhan, Haridwar, which was registered on
16.07.2007 was closed, the publication in relation to this aspect in
2017 prima facie cannot be held to be justified. The plaintiff of the
case Acharya Bal Krishan is also indicated vide order dated
13.02.2015 of Special Judicial Magistrate (CBI)/ACJM(I) Dehradun CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 177 of 211 having given his no objection to the final report given by CBI being
accepted. 140. As regards "Chapter 9 Mystery 1: The Ally‟s Murder" 141. As regards the "Chapter Mystery 3: Mentor‟s Sudden
Death" as published in the BOOK qua which it is submitted through CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 179 of 211 the written submissions of the petitioner that it was sought to be
brought forth by the author that there was some foul play in relation to
the death of Rajiv Dixit and that the petitioner was unwilling to permit
the conducting of the postmortem in a bid to cover up the foul play,
the allegation was totally unfounded in view of the death certificate of
Rajiv Dixit disclosing that he had died a natural death caused by an
acute myocardial infraction (heart attack) which death certificate has
never been challenged nor was there any pending investigation in
relation thereto and in view of the death certificate, there is no way for
the respondents to prove that the allegations were true and in trial, no
defence would succeed in relation thereto, taking into account the
factum that the author also mentions at page 140 in this chapter to the
effect : - 142. The other contention raised on behalf of the respondent is to the
effect that the petitioner does not contend specifically that the contents
of the BOOK are false and in the absence of such assertions the
prayer made by the petitioner ought not to be granted, in relation to
this aspect, it is essential to observe that the plaintiff i.e. the petitioner
through his plaint has categorically averred that the contents of the
BOOK are malicious and completely out of context with ulterior
motive with twisted, misleading, incorrect, defamatory and false
averments. This contention thus raised on behalf of the respondents is
thus not accepted. PETITIONER, A PUBLIC PERSON - PUBLIC INTEREST TO
KNOW ALL ABOUT HIM 143. Contentions that have been raised by the respondents that the
petitioner being a public person cannot be thin skinned and being a
public figure necessarily has to volunteer his life for public
examination in public interest that people know about his doings even
in his personal life and because the petitioner exercises
disproportionate control over the media and can issue correctives
widely and the petitioner herein has even controverted allegations
when confronted in as much as all these issues in the BOOK which
the petitioner alleges to be defamatory have been more expressly dealt
with by reports, newspapers and TV journalists and other media and
the petitioner has over and again been satisfied with responding to
them by controverting them when confronted and thus all that the
author had sought to do was to put forth a fair comment which the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 184 of 211 publisher has published contending that it has been done in public
interest. 144. In relation to this submission, it is essential to observe that as laid down in Justice K.S. Puttuswamy (Retd.) v. Union of India (2017)
10 SCC 1 as observed vide paragraphs 623, 624 & 625 to the effect : - 145. Thus as laid down thereby, whatever may be of the interest to
the public but has no element of public interest may amount to breach
of privacy and an individual thus has a right to protection to protect
his reputation from being unfairly harmed in relation thereto not only
against false truth but also certain truths. It is thus in this context that
the verdicts in Sardar Charanjeet Singh v. Arun Purie & Ors. 1983
( 4) DRJ 86, Khushwant Singh v. Maneka Gandhi (2001) SCC
Online Del 1030, Indu Jain v. Forbes Inc. 2007 SCC Online Del
1424 coupled with the factum that the submissions of the respondents
themselves in relation to the aspect of there being no meaningful
difference now between public officials and public figures in view of
the verdict of the Phoolan Devi Vs. Shekhar Kapoor & Ors 1995
32(DRJ) 142 have to be read wherein the right to reputation and
privacy has been extended to an individual against making a film
against the appellant herein shaming her being raped and paraded
nude. 146. It is essential to observe that the petitioner herein admittedly
being a public figure, cannot ipso facto termed to having given a
license to the respondents for his defamation. REPETITION OF LIBEL AND ACQUIESCENCE 147. As regards the contentions raised on behalf of the respondents
in relation to the prior publication having been concealed by the
petitioners and the contentions that the prior publication had far more
invasive comments against the petitioner and that thus the petitioner
having acquiesced to their existence cannot now seek to contend that
any rights of his have been assaulted, it has rightly been contended on CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 186 of 211 behalf of the petitioner that for the purposes of an action for libel,
without any observations on the aspect presently as to what is detailed
in the BOOK is a libel or a hearsay statement for the purposes of the
law of libel a hearsay statement is the same as a direct statement and
that repeated libellous statements are thus libellous as observed in
Lewis vs. Daily Telegraph (1964) AC 234. Thus, the contentions
raised on behalf of the respondents that 25,000 copies of the BOOK
have already entered in the market and no useful purpose would be
now served by grant of ad-interim injunction before conclusion of the
trial in as much as the copies which have already entered into the
market will continue to sell, re-sell and be read and re-read cannot be
accepted as also brought forward through the verdict of this Court in Dr. Shashi Tharoor v. Arnab Goswami 2017 SCC Onling 12049 and
Bhaichung Bhutia Vs. Saumik Dutta & Ors. (2014) 215 DLT 415
which restrained publishing and re-publishing of alleged defamatory
imputations. 148. The petitioner has submitted in relation to this aspect that it
would have to be established and proved by the respondent that the
subject matter of the rumour is true and not merely that such rumour
existed. The factum that the petitioner has put forth that the statements
made in some of the publications were made prior to the closure
report being accepted on 13.02.2015 and prior to the Untrace report
having been accepted by the Trial Court, it is prima facie apparent
that the petitioner cannot be held to have consented in clear and
unequivocal terms for the publications that had been made previously
qua which there has been a repudiation. GRANT OF INTERLOCUTORY INJUNCTION 149. As regards the contentions on behalf of the respondents placing
reliance on Bonnard v. Perryman [1891 2 (Ch) 269] to contend that
an interlocutory injunction ought not to be granted when the
defendants justified the libel and that in the event of their not
succeeding in justifying the libel, damages would suffice and
consequently reliance thus placed on the verdicts of this Court in Tata
Sons v. Greenpeace International 2011 SCC Online Del 466, Sardar
Charanjeet Singh v. Arun Purie & Ors. 1983 (4) DRJ 86 and Indu
Jain v. Forbes Inc. 2007 SCC Online Del 1424, it is essential as
already observed hereinabove that Bonnard v. Perryman [1891 2
(Ch) 269] itself holds that such an interlocutory injunction ought to be
granted when the defendant contends that he will be able to justify the
libel and the Court is, prima facie, not satisfied that he may be able to
do so. Significantly, the impugned order also reflects that the defence
proposed by the respondents is weak and furthermore the author
through the written statement submitted before the Trial Court that
‗the truth is a multi layered phenomenon' and the publisher through
its written statement claims that the allegations are ‗legitimate
surmises'. 150. In the instant case as already observed hereinabove prima
facie that there is a closure report accepted by the Special Judicial
Magistrate (CBI)/ACJM(I) Dehradun in relation to the missing of
Guru Shanker Devi Ji, the spiritual mentor of the petitioner, and
there an "Untrace Report" in relation to the murder of Swami
Yogananda, which were in existence prior to the publication of CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 188 of 211 the BOOK published in 2017. Prima facie, thus this Court is not
satisfied that the respondents would be able to justify these two
allegations. 151. As regards the contentions raised by the respondents that there
have been certain words in the plaint which do not correspond to the
contents of the BOOK, i.e. the words such as ―When Ramdev's Guru
Mysteriously Mischievously Disappeared‖ and ―The Cryptic Note‖
left behind in Shanker Dev's Room and ―A Case Still Open‖ as
mentioned in the plaint, it has been submitted on behalf of the
petitioner that the excerpts in the plaint are identical to the excerpts in
the BOOK and headings are also brought forward through the sources
delineated in the BOOK and that each of the excerpts are relatable to
portions within the BOOK which aspect on a perusal of the BOOK
and ―Sources‖ in the BOOK is found to be correct, as per submissions
made and comparison table submitted by the petitioner on 17.09.2018. FAIR COMMENT IN BOOK? 152. The contention was raised on behalf of the respondents that the
BOOK was in fact laudatory of the petitioner in tone and wherever it
discusses criticism of the petitioner it also presents his defence and
there have only been fair comments made. It is essential to observe
that the contention of the petitioner has been that his reputation has
been affected by the words used in the BOOK and that an attempt has
been made to affect his reputation in the assumption of the right
thinking members of the society generally. 153. It is essential to observe that the defamatory statements need
only to have the tendency to affect the personal reputation and need CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 189 of 211 not actually lower it. However, the standard to be applied is as to
whether the reputation is affected in the estimation of right thinking
members of the society generally as laid down by the House of Laws
in Sim Vs. Stretch, (1936) 2 All ER 1237, in applying this test, the
statement complained of has to be read as a whole and the words used
in it are to be given their natural or ordinary meaning which may be
ascribed to them by ordinary men as laid down by the Hon'ble High
Court of Madhya Pradesh in Ramakant Vs. Devilal, 1969 MPLJ 805
as the ordinary man after reading the writing does not contemplate of
reading it again and again for deriving its meaning and so the meaning
of words in a libel action ―is a matter of impression as an ordinary
man gets on the first reading, not on a later analysis‖ as laid down in
Lewis Vs. Daily Telegraph Ltd., (1963) 2 All EF 151 (HL) (154), the
question is not of construction in the legal sense for the ordinary man
―is not inhibited by a knowledge of the rules of construction and he
can and does read between the lines in the light of his general
knowledge and experience of worldly affairs‖ and further ―the
layman's capacity for implication is much greater than the lawyer's.
The lawyer's rule is that the implication must be necessary as well as
reasonable. The layman reads in an implication much more freely and
unfortunately, as the law of defamation has to take into account, is
especially prone to do so when it is derogatory.‖ If the defamatory
statement consists of an article with a headline and photograph the
whole of the article including the headline and photograph has to be
taken together and considered whether in its natural and ordinary
meaning which may be ascribed to it by ordinary men it is defamatory CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 190 of 211 of the plaintiff and as laid down in Charleston Vs. News Group
Newspaper Ltd. (1995) 2 All ER 313. 154. A contention was raised on behalf of the respondents that no
innuendos were explained through the plaint and thus the contentions
of the petitioner that there were any statements made in the BOOK
violative of his right of reputation cannot be accepted. In relation to
this aspect it is essential to observe that in cases where no legal
innuendo is alleged, the Court after reading the published statement as
a whole ―is required to determine the single meaning which the
publication conveyed to the notional reasonable reader as laid down in
Charleston Vs. News Group Newspaper Ltd. (1995) 2 All ER 313. 155. In England, the rule to be applied by a Judge in deciding
whether or not words were capable of a defamatory meaning is
whether a reasonable jury would be justified in finding that the words
complained of were defamatory, and, notwithstanding the various
inoffensive meanings which the words complained of might be said to
be capable of bearing, it should be impossible to hold that they were
not capable of a defamatory meaning as laid down in Morris Vs.
Sandess Universal Products, (1954) 1 All ER 47. In India however
where a defamation suit is not tried by jury, it is for the Judge to
decide finally the meaning of the words alleged to be defamatory
bearing in mind the test of an ordinary man. In a case of libel, it is not
necessary to prove the actual loss of reputation; it is sufficient to
establish that the defamatory statements made could damage one's
reputation as laid down in Sadashiba Vs. Bansidhar, AIR 1962 Ori
115 and Habib Bhai Vs. Pyarelal , AIR 1964 MP 62. 156. It is essential to observe that the intention with which the words
are used is immaterial and thus the mere contentions of the
respondents that the BOOK is laudatory and was not intended to
defame the petitioner, is prima facie, not acceptable, for the Court has
to see as to how an ordinary reasonable reader on reading contents of
the portions of the BOOK adverted to hereinabove would interpret the
same and reflect upon the same. As laid down in Cassidy Vs. Daily
Mirror Newspaper, (1929) 2 KB 331 the liability for libel does not
depend on the intention of the defamer; but on the fact of
defamation. 157. It is essential to observe that as laid down in Tushar Kanti
Ghose Vs. Bina Bhowmick, (1952) 57 CWN 378 where the plaintiff
has succeeded in proving that certain statements published in a
newspaper were clearly defamatory of the plaintiff, it is immaterial
whether the plaintiff succeeds or fails in establishing the inneundos
alleged by him and if he fails, he can treat the unproved inneundos as
surplusage and still contend that the words of the publication are
defamatory in their natural and ordinary meaning. 158. That the petitioner is a public figure is indicated in the plaint
itself and by the factum of several publications informing the public
about him and has worked repeatedly. The factum that the petitioner
has access to Mass Media communication and newspapers both to
influence policy and to counter criticism of use of activity makes it
apparent that the citizens have a legitimate and substantial interest in
the conduct of the petitioner. The petitioner having taken Sanyas and CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 192 of 211 apparently being acclaimed a spiritual and Yoga Guru, is also revered
and respected in society as has already been referred to hereinabove. 159. The articles published on the internet during the interregnum
when there was no restraint on the publication and purchase of the
BOOK and even thereafter which BOOK appears to have been read
by some of other authors other than the author of the BOOK even
when the ban was in existence, itself indicates the statements of
readers to the effect that the contents of the BOOK as per a review on
the internet goes to the extent of stating that as a reader, it makes you
question circumstantial evidence and murky happenings, that the
petitioner‟s life story is dotted by a mysterious murder, an odd
disappearance and a death under curious circumstances and of
his having associated with people for his benefit and serving his
ambitions and once they have fulfilled the need, they are no longer
required and that he has been quick enough to dissociate and that
the BOOK makes him a power hungry political ambitious person
lurking behind a legitimate or otherwise Ayurveda business and
that the same is good enough a description for a villain. This
BOOK review has already been adverted to elsewhere
hereinabove and inter alia states that Baba Ramdev himself had
come across as a highly ambitious villain who never gets his hands
dirty and that his plans are tactical and they seem to be working
and luck is on his side. 160. Another BOOK review published on the internet on 13.08.2017
states in context with the BOOK CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 193 of 211 ―behind that charming and simplistic persona lies a mind
 of great cunning that knows how to grab an opportunity,
 manipulate, exploit and even threaten people to get his
 work done............ The BOOK reveals a number of
 unsavory facets of his business that fill one with revulsion
 and disgust. To put it in short, I am never buying a
 Patanjali product ever again. Thankfully, have ever used
 only his toothpaste and honey so far so no great harm
 done.‖ 161. There are further BOOK reviews also stating that there is
hardly a place where the author pushes her point of view or tries to
bias the reader. In the same breath in the next sentence, the said
BOOK review dated 07.12.2017 states that nevertheless, there seems
to be a „skew‟ in this reporting and that is what makes Baba wanting
to prevent you from reading it. 162. Another review dated 07.08.2017 states "She is also fair -
both to Ramdev, and to her multiple interviewees." 163. Another post review on the BOOK dated 13.08.2017 states
"mysterious deaths and disappearances of his close associates ----- -------- that is serious! It most certainly should be investigated." 164. Another review dated 08.01.2018 states "not everything is as
good as it seems and the BOOKs has a lot to reveal." 165. Another review dated 01.10.2017 states ―a very interesting
investigative journalistic work, I should say. The author has to be
appreciated for the such pain-staking hard work she has put in in
gathering information from various sources. She has tried to remain
unbiased throughout the narration. Nowhere has she shadowed the
facts with her opinions. There are may questions unanswered due to CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 194 of 211 lack of evidence. One may read this BOOK to understand how a big
giant like Patanjali was formed.‖ 166. Another review states that "the BOOK is not defamatory as
the people opposing it seem to make it to be. It‟s extensively
researched with almost 30 pages of sources cited at the end of the
BOOK. The author also has interviewed a number of people who
have been and continue to be associated with Ramdev, a person
who seems to attract controversy like an open bottle of patanjali
honey attracts flies. She manages to be relatively neutral in most
of the BOOK, even seems to be an awe of his strategies and
achievements but does not deviate from the aim of the BOOK; to
create a sort - of biography estimating the start and rise of the
controversial "baba"." 167. Though there are comments on the internet stating that the
BOOK is unbiased equally there are comments stating that the
petitioner is a villain. The Court thus has to consider the record on the
basis of what an ordinary reasonable reader would think of the
contents of the BOOK. Undoubtedly there are chapters on the
creation of the Patanjali Empire, which may be laudatory. Yet it
cannot be overlooked that in the impugned order of the learned ACJ
dated 28.04.2018 in MCA No. 8/2017 and MCA No. 10/2017 too, it is
observed that it is clarified that the net import of the judgment is not
that the petitioner herein has not suffered any damage to his reputation
on account of publication or sale of the BOOK of the respondents
herein. 168. The attention of this Court has been drawn to the verdict of the
Hon'ble Division Bench of this Court dated 28.09.2018 in Pushp
Sharma Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and ors and Forum for Media and
Literature and Anr. Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and Ors. in FAO (OS)
92/2018 and FAO (OS) 93/2018 to contend that the valuable right of
free speech is the life blood of democracy and ought not to be diluted
and that the salutary and established principle in issues that concern
free speech are that public figures and public institutions have to
fulfill a very high threshold to seek injunctive relief in respect of
alleged libel or defamation and that it is not unknown that in a suit for
permanent injunction, the plaintiff is unable to secure temporary
injunction. 169. At the outset, it is essential to be observe that the verdict in Pushp Sharma Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and ors and Forum for Media
and Literature and Anr. Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and Ors. (supra) relates
to the grant of an ex-parte interim relief observing inter alia to the
effect that the ex-parte injunction granted in the said case qua the
entire duration of the suit without taking into account the principles in Morgans Stanley Mutual Fund v. Kartick Das 1994 (4) SCC 225
as laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court to the effect : - 170. The facts of the case in Pushp Sharma Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd.
and ors and Forum for Media and Literature and Anr. Vs. D.B.
Corp. Ltd. and Ors. (supra) thus are not in pari materia with the
facts and circumstances put forth before this Court. 171. It is essential to observe that vide the order of Hon'ble Division
bench in Pushp Sharma Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and ors and Forum
for Media and Literature and Anr. Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and Ors. (supra), the observations in para 21 thereof spell out categorically as
already dealt with in the present judgment of this Court highlight the
necessity of the Court to balance the rights of freedom of speech and
expression and of the right to reputation rather than to dilute them. The verdict of the Hon'ble Division bench referred to hereinabove,
vide paragraph 23 thereof inter alia observes to the effect ―Unless it is
demonstrated at the threshold that the offending content is malicious
or palpably false, an injunction and that too an ex-parte one, without
recording any reasons should not be given. 172. It is essential to observe that in the instant case, the aspect of
the CBI closure report dated 13.02.2015 and the untraced report in
relation to the sensationalization of the disappearance of Shankar Dev
Ji and the murder of the Swami Yogananda were in existence prior to
the publication of the BOOK in 2017 in the instant case. 173. This Court has taken into account also the BOOK reviews that
have been uploaded on the electronic media prior to the grant of the
ex-parte interim injunction dated 04.08.2017 by the learned ACJ-CCJ-
ARC(E), Karkardooma Courts, Delhi and those that came on to the
electronic media even during the pendency of the restraint. 174. The pleadings of the parties and contentions raised on behalf of
either side are before this Court unlike the facts in which the
impugned order in Pushp Sharma Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd. and ors and
Forum for Media and Literature and Anr. Vs. D.B. Corp. Ltd.
and Ors. (supra) were assailed. 175. Furthermore in the facts and circumstances of the instant case,
the balance of convenience is in favour of the petitioner in as much as
irreparable loss would be caused to him and is continuously being
caused if some portions of the BOOK continue to be in operation as is
also brought forth in the impugned order of the ASCJ (East). 176. Furthermore it is essential to observe as laid down by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in K.S. Puttaswamy Vs. Union of India (2017) 10 SCC which reads to the effect : - 177. Thus the right to privacy which includes within it, the right to

reputation has to undergo a case by case development and privacy CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 199 of 211 interest in autonomy (which would include the right to reputation)

must also be placed in the context of other rights and values. 178. Thus in the circumstances, it is essential to observe that the
impugned order too reflects the injury caused to the petitioner by
publication and sale of the BOOK by the respondents. It is also
apparent as has been observed hereinabove that the petitioner is
revered and respected as a spiritual Yoga Guru and that the veracity or
otherwise of the contents of statements made in the BOOK is yet to
be established and as already held elsewhere hereinabove in relation
to the disappearance of Shankar Dev Ji and the murder of the Swami
Yogananda, no material evidence is indicated to have been collected
or is stated to be an existence against the petitioner by acceptance of
the closure report in relation to Swami Shanker Dev Ji and the
―Untrace Report‖ in relation to Swami's Yogananda murder as has
already been held elsewhere hereinabove and thus there appears no
belief of justification put forth by the respondents in relation to these
aspects to suffice to negate the grant of the prayer of the petitioner
seeking restraint of the portions of the BOOK with insinuating
statements against the petitioner in relation thereto. 179. This is so in as much as though it is sought to be contended on
behalf of the respondents that what is sought to be put forth through
these paragraphs and chapters adverted to hereinabove is justifiable as
„fair comment‟, it is essential to observe that in order to be justifiable
as fair comment, it must appear as a comment and must not be so
mixed up with the facts that the reader cannot distinguish between CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 200 of 211 what is reported and what is comment and a comment must not
convey imputations of disreputable motive unless adequately
supported with evidence. CONCLUSION 180. Thus as the petitioner about whom the BOOK is written about
is living human being and thus entitled to be treated with dignity and
has a right of social reputation as an ordinary citizen even if he be a
public figure, and as reputation is a cherished value and an element of
personal security, portions of the BOOK which make readers think
that he is an ambitious villain, until so proved in the Court of Law are
necessarily to be restrained from being published and distributed for
sale till disposal of the suit bearing no. 619/2017 pending before the
learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC(E), Karkardooma Courts, Delhi. This is so as
the right to reputation of a living individual under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India cannot be sacrificed and crucified at the altar of
the right to freedom of speech and expression of another and both
have to be harmonized and balanced in as much as no amount of
damages can redeem the damage to reputation of any person and
merely because there have been previous publications on the same
issue, the same does not permit any repetitions of prima facie
defamatory insinuations against him. 181. In view thereof, all the respondents in C.M.(M) 556/18 &
C.M.(M) 557/18 are restrained from publishing, distributing and
selling the BOOK i.e. "Godman to Tycoon" The Untold Story of
Baba Ramdev, ISBN No. 9789386228383 in any manner,- until they
delete the following : - (b) At Page 105 to 114, Chapter 16 Mystery 2 : The
 Guru‟s Disappearance (Entire Chapter 16). Even though Karamveer had left the organization,
 Shankar Dev, who missed him dearly, often called him -
 sometimes for financial help. ‗I used to send whatever little
 I could so he could get by,' says Karamveer. Vipin
 Pradhan, a former aide and Karamveer's nephew, says,
 'By then, the trust was being run by ... relatives of Ramdev
 who had come in from outside and had no intention, of
 serving any interest other than their own. They treated
 Shankar Dev badly and he was very unhappy.''
 Kararhveer says that once when he was visiting
 Haridwar and staying with an old friend in Tripura
 Ashram, 'Shankar Dev came to meet me. They had sent
 two people after him to do his CID {that is, to spy on him].
 They waited at the gates while we met. I'm not sure why...
 they [Ramdev and Balkrishna] had doubts [about Shankar
 Dev] in their minds at the time... who knows what doubt...
 what they were thinking at the time. It must have been a
 very difficult situation for Shankar Dev.'
 But it is Radhika Nagrath's appraisal of the situation
 that is most damning. Remember, Nagrath is the one who
 designed Divya Pharmacy's website in its early days. She is
 still associated with Patanjali and has an obvious soft spot
 for Ramdev, whom she speaks of with affection, though CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 207 of 211 she is unhesitatingly honest. She says, 'Shankar Dev was a
 real saint - a very gentle guy. He felt ousted in his own
 home. He did not get any compassion because these people
 were in a race for something else. It was once his home,
 his shelter. He used to sign all the expense cheques for the
 trust at first [but] now the authority was taken away from
 him and he was not happy with the way things had shaped
 out. He had given these people shelter and now they had
 no time for him ... they had no use for an old man any
 more.'
 An uneasy silence always follows questions about
 Shankar Dev among Kankhal residents. People always ask,
 'Can I trust you? Are you writing for him or against him?
 You see, Ramdev has become too powerful. And look what-
 happened to his guru ...'
 After his pit stop at the House of Commons, Ramdev
 continued his tour, travelling to Glasgow then back to
 London, and finally ending his tour in Coventry on 8
 August 2007. When he returned to India, more than three
 weeks had passed since Shankar Dev's disappearance. To
 outside observers it seemed as though Ramdev was too
 busy chasing fame and fortune, making them wonder: did
 he even care? After his return, Ramdev summoned a press
 connference in Haridwar, remembers the Jansatta reporter
 and Haridwar resident Sunil Pandey. At the press
 conference he was saying how Shankar Dev was like a
 father to him and how sad it was ... I asked him that if he
 really was like a father to him, why -didn't he come back?
 ―I was in the US, conducting camps, answered Ramdev.
 ‗Well, if a family member disappeared, one would come
 back, isn't it?' Pandey pressed Ramdev. ‗If I knew he was alive, I would have,' replied Ramdev. 'So you are admitting that you know that he is dead?'
 demanded Pandey. That was the suspicion in everyone's minds. Stunned, realizing he had misspoken, Ramdev fell
 silent. ‗Then his people just took over and changed the
 subject. Though a lot of people were present at the press
 conference,' recalls Pandey. Little of this murky business was reported in the
 national media at that time. Across the country, Ramdev's
 star was ascendant. It was only in October 2012, five years after Shankar
 Dev's disappearance, that the Central Bureau of
 Investigation (CBl), India's apex investigative agency,
 initiated a probe to find him. In his inimitable style,
 Ramdev welcomed the investigation on the one hand, but
 also attacked the CBI and the government, accusing them
 of a politically motivated conspiracy to frame him m the
 case. Given the sour relationship between Ramdev and the
 Union government at that time, his allegation did have
 some credence. Whatever the CBI's initial motivations, it was widely
 reported- that it initiated a move to close the case in
 December 2014 - by this time the Narendra Modi-led
 government had taken charge at the-Centre - because the
 agency had failed to make any headway. The special BJ
 magistrate in Dehradun set the date for the next hearing as
 12 January 2015 but this is where the public case file goes
 cold. It's hard to ascertain what happened thereafter. While a
 right to information (RTI) request I filed with the CBI in
 Delhi met with the response that the CBI was not covered
 by the RTI, another filed in Dehradun met with the CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 209 of 211 response that the CBI does not answer questions on open
 cases. Ergo, the case is still open.‖ (c) At Page 201 Chapter 25 : Conclusion

 "A trail of people whose goodwill or frailties he used to
 further his own enrichment and pursue his own agenda,
 people who were left by the wayside after they had served
 their purpose. A trail of people who either vanished into
 thin air, or died mysterious deaths, or live on in utter fear
 of him. A trail of decisions and political machinations
 driven not by the principles he espouses but by
 expediency." (d) At Page 202 Chapter 25 : Conclusion

 "Finally, a trail of shirked responsibility. For every
 negative event surrounding him, he has consistently
 yelled foul, always choosing to lay the blame at someone
 else's door." ... ... ... 182. As regards the submissions made in relation to other portions of
the BOOK as detailed in the petition, the same prima facie fall within
the domain of thought provocation and debate and criticism and the
prayers in relation thereto cannot presently be accepted. 183. The petitioners C.M.(M) 556/18 & C.M.(M) 557/18 are
disposed of accordingly and all interim orders made in the suit bearing CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 210 of 211 no. 619/2017 pending before the learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC(E),
Karkardooma Courts, Delhi and in MCA No.8/2017 and in MCA
No.10/2017 disposed of by the ASCJ (East) and by this Court in
CM(M) 556/18 and CM(M) 557/18 are modified accordingly. 184. Nothing stated hereinabove shall however amount to any
expression on the merits or demerits of the Civil Suit No. 619/2017
pending before the learned ACJ-CCJ-ARC(E), Karkardooma Courts,
Delhi. 185. Vide paragraph 18 of the suit bearing no. 619/2017 as valued,
the suit for the purposes of jurisdiction is valued at Rs.39/- with reliefs
as rightly held vide the impugned orders dated 28.4.2018 of the
learned Additional Senior Civil Judge, East District in MCA
No.10/2017 and in MCA No.8/2017 having necessarily to be valued
qua each relief sought with appropriate court fees being paid on the
same and the same be done by the petitioner herein i.e. the plaintiff
before the Trial Court within a period of 15 days of the date of this
order. 186. The Trial Court Records be returned. ANU MALHOTRA, J

SEPTEMBER 29th, 2018
SV/MK/VM/NC CM(M) 556/2018 & 557/2018 Page 211 of 211