1. Briefly stated facts of prosecution case are that on January
13, 2009 at about 10.45 AM, HC Dilawar Singh had received a secret
information that one person named Wasim along with his companion
Mahender would come at opposite Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital
between 12 noon to 12.30 PM to deliver fake indian currency notes to
one person named Vijay. The said information was conveyed to ASI
Rakesh who further conveyed to Insp. Attar Singh, who further conveyed
to ACP Northern range. Thereafter, raiding party was constituted and
secret information was recorded vide DD No. 5. At about 11.30 AM, the
raiding party left from Special Cell office in a gypsy bearing registration
No. DL-1C-J-3566 and in a private car bearing No. UP-14-V-2777.
Secret informer also accompanied the raiding party. It was alleged that
at about 12.10 PM, one person came from Aventika side and stood near
newspaper vendor. After seeing him secret informer informed the
investigating officer that his name was Vijay. After reaching there Vijay
started looking here and there and started waiting for someone. After
about five minutes, two persons came from Metro Station side and stood

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 2 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others near Vijay and thereafter they started talking with Vijay. The person who
was wearing yellow colour jacket was identified as Wasim by the secret
informer and he was carrying a bag on his shoulder. Another person was
identified as Mahender Pal by secret informer. It was alleged that after
having talk for about five minutes, Wasim had handed over his bag to
Vijay. When ASI Rakesh Kumar along with staff led towards them, all of
them ran away towards Aventika side. However, police party
apprehended all of them. Nothing was recovered from accused Mahender Pal. The recovered
currency notes were sealed in separate pullandas and were seized.
Thereafter, ASI Rakesh Kumar prepared a rukka and sent HC Dilawar
Singh to the police station to lodge an FIR. Further investigation was
assigned to SI Satender Vashist who reached the spot as per the
direction of Insp. Attar Singh. (ii) It was alleged that pursuant to the disclosure statement of
accused Vijay, his house was searched and eleven counterfeit currency
notes of ` 100/- each were recovered from one small suitcase. Twenty
nine partly printed sheets and Twenty five blank sheets were also
recovered from his house. The same were sealed in separate pullandas. Similarly, on the search of house of accused Wasim, twenty five partly
printed sheets and thirty seven blank sheets were recovered from his
house. Some torn pieces of currency notes were also recovered from
the dustbin. Same were kept in separate pullandas and seized. Nothing
was recovered from the house of accused Mahender Pal. 2 After completing investigation, a challan was filed against the
accused persons for the offence punishable under Section
489B / 489C / 489D / 120B IPC. It was also mentioned therein that their co-
accused Saleem and Zafeer could not be arrested despite best efforts
made by investigating agency and submitted that supplementary charge-
sheet would be filed after their arrest. After complying with the provisions
of Section 207 Cr.P.C, case was committed to the Court of Sessions on
May 14, 2009. Thereafter, the case was assigned to the learned
Predecessor of this Court on May 20, 2009. Accordingly, case was
registered as SC No.42/2009. 3. Initially, vide order dated July 7, 2009, a charge for the
offence punishable under Section 489 B and 489 C IPC was framed
against the accused persons. Thereafter, vide order dated January 19,
2011, a fresh charge for the offence punishable under Section
489B / 489C / 489D / 120B IPC was framed against the accused persons to
which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 4. In order to prove the guilt of accused, prosecution has
examined as many as following 9 witnesses:- 5. Thereafter, all accused persons were examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C wherein they denied all the evidence led by the
prosecution. Accused Mohd. Wasim took the plea that he was using the
mobile phone of one Manish Lamba who was residing at Najafgarh. It
was stated that he was working at the shop of his Mosa. It was stated
that Manish called him at District Centre, Janak Puri asking him to return
his mobile phone and when he reached there, police apprehended him
and thereafter falsely implicated him in this case. Accused Vijay took the
plea that he used to sell shoes on the pavement at District Center and
police had lifted him from there on January 11, 2009 and thereafter
illegally detained him for two days. It was submitted that police had also
detained Mohd. Wasim. Police had inquired from him whether he knew
Mohd. Wasim or not. When he declined, police falsely implicated him in
this case. It was submitted that nothing was recovered from his
possession. Accused Mahender Pal stated that he had been falsely
implicated in this case. To prove his innocence, accused Vijay examined
Manish Kumar as DW1 while other accused persons refused to lead
evidence in their defence. 6. I have heard Sh. R. K. Tanwar, Additional Public Prosecutor
for State, Sh. Dinesh Sharma, Amicus Curiae for accused Mohd. Wasim,
Sh. Vijay Aggarwal, Advocate, counsel for accused Vijay Kumar and Mr.
Isslamuddin Advocate, counsel for accused Mahender Pal and perused
the record carefully. No question of law is raised by counsel for either
parties. 7. Learned counsel appearing for the accused persons
vehemently contended that no reliance can be placed on the deposition
of police official witnesses as their testimony is not corroborated from any
independent corner and no sincere efforts were made to persuade public
persons to join the investigation either at the time of apprehending the
accused persons or even thereafter. It was submitted that explanation
furnished by the witnesses for not joining the public persons are not
convincing. It was further submitted that even no efforts were made to
join the independent witness at the time of taking search of house of
accused Wasim and Vijay. It was submitted that investigating officer had
violated the mandatory provisions of Section 100 Cr.P.C.
It was further submitted that no adverse inference can be drawn against
the accused persons on the basis of alleged recovery from the house of
accused Wasim and Vijay as the same was not pursuant to any distinct
information disclosed by them to the police. It was further contended that
since no printing material was recovered from the accused persons, thus
there is no evidence on record to show that accused persons were
involved in trafficking of fake currency notes. It was further submitted that
there was unreasonable delay of 22 days in sending the case property to
the Nasik Press, thus there is every possibility to temper with the case
property. It was further submitted that the investigating officer had
preferred to use private vehicle and he even did not hesitate to take the

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 6 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others obligation of his friend while taking his Qualis to go to Etah. It was
submitted that no log book of the said vehicle is produced by
investigating officer. Thus, it shows that the entire recovery is stage
managed recovery. Learned counsel also pointed out the contradictions
between the deposition of PW5 to PW8. Learned counsel appearing for
accused Mahender Pal vehemently contended that there is no iota of
admissible evidence against him to show that accused was involved in
any manner in the trafficking of fake currency notes. Similarly, counsel
appearing for accused Vijay also contended that there is not sufficient
evidence to establish that accused Vijay had any conspiracy with
accused Wasim or that he was involved in the fake currency racket.
. 8. Per contra, learned Additional Public Prosecutor for State
refuted the said contentions by arguing that the deposition of police
official witnesses cannot be discarded mere fact that they are police
official witnesses. It was submitted that mere fact that no public witness
came forward to join the raiding party is not sufficient ground to discard
the testimony of police official witnesses. It was further submitted that
pursuant to the disclosure statement of accused Wasim and Vijay,
recovery was effected from their respective houses, thus, the recovery is
admissible under Section 27 of Indian Evidence Act. It was submitted that
the contradictions pointed out by learned defence counsel are not
material in nature, hence no adverse inference can be drawn against
prosecution. No case law is cited in support of his contention. 9. Though prosecution has examined as many as nine
witneses, yet prosecution case is based on the deposition of four
witnesses namely PW5, PW6, PW7 & PW8. All of them are police official

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 7 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others witnesses. 10. It is well settled principle of law that the testimony of police
official though not corroborated by any independent witness cannot be
brushed aside without any good ground (relied upon State of Gujarat
vs. Raghu Nath, AIR 1985 SC 1092). It is also settled law that the
evidence of police official has to be judged like evidence of any other
witness, on its intrinsic worth on prima facie presumption of his honesty
and conscientiousness. There is no reason for presuming him to be a
highly interested witness. (relied upon Khima vs. State of Saurashtra AIR 1956 SC 217)

11 In view of the above settled proposition of law, I do not find
any force in the contention of learned counsel appearing for the accused
persons that no reliance can be placed on the deposition of police official
witnesses on the mere ground that same is not corroborated from any
independent corner. To my mind, conviction can be recorded on the
deposition of police official witnesses, if their testimony is otherwise
trustworthy. 12. Prosecution case is that efforts were made to persuade
public persons to join the raiding party at the time of apprehending the
accused persons but no public person came forward as they went away
without disclosing their name and address. No doubt in a city like Delhi,
it is difficult to persuade a public person to join the investigation in a
criminal matter but once the investigating agency took the plea that they
had made efforts to join public persons, onus is upon the prosecution to
establish that sincere and genuine efforts were made to join the
independent witness. 13. Perusal of the testimony of PW5, PW6 and PW7 reveals
that ASI Rakesh had made request to two-three persons to join the
raiding party but none came forward and went away without disclosing
their name and address. It was further revealed that the said request was
made to passersby and not to any person whose identity can be
established. Investigating officer had taken about 3-4 minutes in making
the request to public persons. This itself shows that the sincere efforts
were not made to persuade the public persons to join the raiding party.
PW5 deposed that request was also made to the newspaper vendor to
join the raiding party but he refused to join the same and also refused to
disclose his name. It is highly unbelievable that newspaper vendor would
not disclose his name on the asking of police official. PW7 deposed that
the newspaper vendor refused to join the raiding party on the ground that
the culprit might be of bad character people. As and when police
apprehend a person, such person most likely to be of bad character, thus
it was not a reasonable excuse for not joining the investigation. PW7
further deposed that another person to whom request was made refused
to join the raiding party on the ground that his mother was admitted in the
hospital. Learned Additional Public Prosecutor failed to convince the
Court why the investigating officer had not made any request to the
employees of the parking where they parked gypsy or the employee of
the hospital or the shopkeeper or the employees of the DTC bus depot
which was located nearby to join the investigation. This shows that the
investigating officer had not made sincere and genuine efforts to join
public witnesses at the time of apprehending the accused persons.
Though this itself is not a sufficient ground to discard the testimony of
police official but it impels the Court to take extra caution at the time of
appreciating their deposition. 14. Prosecution case is that on January 14, 2009, house of
accused Mohd. Wasim and Vijay was searched and some incriminating
articles were found from their houses. Perusal of the testimony of
witnesses examined by prosecution reveals that no public witness was
asked to join the proceedings at the time of alleged recovery. Though
PW8 deposed that he had requested two-three neighbours to join the
investigation at the time of taking search of the house of accused Vijay
but none came forward to join the investigation. However, he failed to
depose the name of those neighbours to whom request was made to join
the investigation. He further deposed that since no person met at the
house of accused Wasim, no request was made to any person to join the
investigation while taking search of his house. On the contrary, PW5
deposed that no person was asked to join the investigation while taking
search of the house of accused Vijay. From his testimony, it is not clear
whether any request was made to public persons to join the investigation
while taking the search of the house of accused Wasim. PW7 deposed
that no person was met near the house of accused Wasim and he has
not noticed any person in the building wherein the house of accused
Wasim was located. Thus, there is a contradiction between the
deposition of PW5 & PW8 as PW8 deposed that he made a request to
two-three persons to join the investigation while taking search of the
house of accused Vijay whereas PW5 deposed that no such request was
made. 15. Section 100 Cr.P.C deals with the procedure while taking
the search of a place during the investigation. Section 100(4) Cr.P.C.
reads as under: (emphasis supplied) 16. Section 100 Cr.P.C casts a duty upon the investigating
officer to join two or more independent and respectable residents of the
locality before taking the search or if any such persons are not willing or
available, duty is cast to call upon such persons from other locality.
Thus, mere fact that two-three neighbours refused to join the
investigation is not sufficient to discharge the investigating officer from his
obligation. Since PW8 failed to disclose the name of such persons, doubt
is arisen over his efforts. During the course of arguments, learned
Additional Public Prosecutor contended that since the public witnesses
did not wish to face the agony by appearing in the Court as a witness,
thus no person came forward to join the investigation at the time of
search. To my mind, the said contention is without any substance as
sub-section (5) to Section 100 Cr.P.C clarifies that such person is not
required to appear as a witness unless he specifically summoned by the
Court. Sub Section (5) reads as under: (emphasis supplied) 17. Thus, it is a myth that if a person joins the investigation at
the time of search, he is required to attend the Court as a witness. On
the converse, it is the duty of the investigating officer to convince the
public persons that they are not required to attend the Court to prove the

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 11 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others seizure. Since, no independent and respectable person of the locality
was joined at the time of alleged recovery from the house of accused
Mohd. Wasim and Vijay, thus to my mind, no adverse inference can be
drawn against them on the basis of alleged recovery. 18. Besides the above, there is another reason not to place any
reliance on the alleged recovery. Prosecution case is that the alleged
recovery was affected pursuant to the distinct information disclosed by
the accused persons during investigation. Perusal of the testimony of
PW5 & PW7 reveals that they had not deposed anything during their
testimony that accused persons had disclosed any distinct information
during interrogation such as they could get recovered any incriminating
article from their respective houses. Though PW8 in his examination-in-
chief deposed that accused Wasim had disclosed that he could get
recovered more fake currency notes and equipments for making fake
currency notes from his rented house near Barkal Lake. However, his
testimony is contrary to his disclosure statement which is exhibited as Ex.
PW5/D wherein he disclosed that he could get recovered fake currency
notes and printing equipments such as computer and scanner from Etah
and also could get arrested accused persons namely Saleem and Zafeer.
In his entire disclosure statement, he nowhere disclosed that he could
get recovered the fake currency notes from his rented house located
near Barkal Lake. Similarly, accused Vijay in his disclosure statement
exhibited as Ex. PW5/F did not disclose that he could get recovered any
incriminating item from his house. Moreover, none of the witnesses
deposed in his testimony that accused persons made any disclosure
statement that they had concealed some incriminating articles in their
respective houses and they could get recovered the same from their
respective house. In these circumstances, to my mind the alleged
recovery does not fall within the four corners of Section 27 of the Indian

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 12 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others Evidence Act . 19. Learned counsel appearing for the accused Mahender Pal
vigorously contended that there is no iota of evidence against the
accused as nothing was recovered from his possession. On the other
hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor contended that he
accompanied the accused Mohd. Wasim at the time of giving the delivery
of fake currency notes. 20. It is admitted case of the prosecution that nothing
incriminating was recovered from the accused Mahender Pal either at the
time of arrest or from his house. Prosecution has roped him with the aid
of Section 120B IPC on the ground that he accompanied the accused
Mohd. Wasim at the time of giving delivery of fake currency notes. As
per the disclosure statement of accused Mahender Pal, his job was to
arrange potential buyers for fake currency notes and earlier also he had
arranged a buyer for fake currency notes to whom Mohd. Wasim and
Vijay had supplied fake currency notes worth of ` 90,000/-. It was further
disclosed that the fake currency notes worth of ` 10,000/- to ` 20,000/-
were supplied to 2-3 buyers through him. Admittedly, pursuant to that
disclosure no recovery was affected. Nor the alleged buyers were
apprehended. Needless to say that the disclosure statement made to the
police is not admissible as the same is hit by Section 25 of Indian
Evidence Act. Assuming for the sake for arguments that accused
Mahender Pal was known to the accused Wasim and Vijay and his job
was to arrange potential buyers as alleged by the prosecution. But to
prove this fact, prosecution has failed to bring any admissible evidence
on record. Even there is no evidence to establish that accused Mahender
Pal was in touch with the accused persons in any manner. Even

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 13 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others investigating officer did not deem it appropriate to scrutinise the calls
detail of accused persons. Resultant there is no evidence on record even
to show that accused Mahender was in touch with the accused persons
in any manner. If there is no evidence to establish the connection
between Mahender Pal and other accused persons, question of
arranging potential buyers for fake currency notes does not arise. No
doubt as per the testimony of police official witnesses, it appears that
accused Mahender Pal was also present at the time of alleged incident
but none of the witnesses had deposed any overt act of accused
Mahender Pal. In other words, there is nothing on record to establish that
accused Mahender Pal was aware about the contents of bag, which was
delivered by Wasim to Vijay. No doubt the criminal conspiracy is hatched
secretly and it is not plausible to adduce ocular evidence to prove the
conspiracy. But to rope a person with the aid of section 120B IPC,
prosecution is duty bound to establish that there was an agreement
between the accused Mahender Pal and others to print fake currency
notes and to supply the same to potential buyers. But on the contrary
there is not even an iota of evidence to establish the connection of
accused Mahender Pal with other accused persons. 21. Taking into account the above, I am of the considered
opinion that prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of accused
Mahender Pal beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts. Thus, I
hereby acquit the accused Mahender Pal from all the charges. 22. Counsel appearing for accused Vijay also contended that
there is no evidence to establish that accused Vijay was indulged in the
fake currency racket. It was contended that though prosecution case was
that accused Vijay used to arrange potential buyers for accused Mohd. Wasim and his companion Saleem and Zafeer but there is no evidence to
establish this fact and even no investigation was conducted to establish
the fact that accused Vijay had supplied the fake currency notes to any
person previously. 23. Prosecution case is that accused Mohd. Wasim had
handed over the bag containing the fake currency notes to accused Vijay.
As per prosecution version, job of Vijay was to arrange potential buyers
for the fake currency notes. As per prosecution version, accused Mohd.
Wasim had supplied the fake currency notes worth of ` 50,000/- to Vijay
for supplying the same to the potential buyers. But during investigation,
no effort was made to find out to whom the said fake currency notes were
to be supplied. If the job of accused Vijay was to arrange potential buyers
for fake currency notes, it means that there was some buyer to whom
Vijay had to supply the fake currency notes but during the investigation
no effort was made in this regard to identify the said buyer. As per the
disclosure statement of accused Vijay he had earlier supplied ` 90,000/-
to one person of Samey Pur Badli. Similarly, he had also disclosed that at
one occasion he had supplied ` 10,000/- to one person and ` 20,000/-
to another person after taking fake currency notes from Mohd. Wasim.
But surprisingly, no sincere efforts were made either to get know the
identity of such persons or to apprehend them. In other words there is no
admissible evidence on record to establish the fact that accused Vijay's
job was to supply the fake currency notes to the potential buyers except
his disclosure statement, which is hit by Section 25 of Indian Evidence
Act. Admittedly, no recovery was affected pursuant to the alleged
disclosure statement. 24. There is another reason for not placing any reliance on the

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 15 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others version of prosecution. Prosecution case is that accused Mohd Wasim
along with his associates namely Saleem and Zafeer were indulged in
printing of fake currency notes whereas Mohd. Wasim had assigned the
job of arranging potential buyers to Vijay and Mahender Pal. It is also
admitted case of prosecution that accused Vijay and Mahender Pal had
earlier supplied the fake currency notes worth of ` 90,000/- to one
resident of Samey Pur Badli and at one occasion they had supplied the
fake currency notes of ` 10,000/- and at another occasion they supplied
the fake currency worth of ` 20,000/-. It is but natural that all the accused
were involved in this illegal activities to earn handsome gain. But
surprisingly, no efforts were made to find out for how much money the
said fake currency notes were sold to the alleged buyers and how they
had shared the ill-gotten money. Even no effort was made to recover the
said ill-gotten money. It is pertinent to state that it is not the prosecution
case that accused used to circulate the fake currency notes in the market
to unwary shopkeepers etc. On the converse, prosecution version is that
they used to supply fake currency notes to particular persons, it means
that the alleged buyers knew that the supplied currency notes were fake. 25. Admittedly, the offence punishable under section 489B and 489D IPC attract punishment up to imprisonment for life. Thus, in such a
heinous crime, Society and Court expect better quality of investigation. In
the instant case, investigation was conducted by the investigators of
Special Cell, which is well equipped to conduct intensive investigation.
But it appears that the investigators of Special Cell are not aware about
the basic cardinal rules of investigation. Even investigating officer did not
aware as to whether Special Cell is governed by the provisions of Punjab
Police Rules or not as PW7 in his cross-examination deposed that he did
not know whether Special Cell is governed by the Punjab Police Rules

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 16 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others or not. How can Society expects to follow rules from such investigator
who does not know which rules he has to follow during investigation.
Needless to say whenever a case is investigated by a specialized agency
such as Special Cell, Court and Society expect better quality of
investigation. As already discussed, in this case no efforts were made
either to know the identity of persons who bought fake currency notes
from Vijay and Mahender Pal or to recover the ill-gotten money by selling
the fake currency notes. Such lapses were not expected from such a
specialized agency. 26. If prosecution failed to establish that the role of accused
Vijay was to supply the fake currency notes after arranging buyer, it
casts a doubt over the prosecution version that he had taken the delivery
of fake currency note for that purpose. Though the witnesses examined
by the prosecution deposed that accused Mohd Wasim had talked with
Vijay for about 5 minutes before handing over the bag to him but they
failed to depose what talk had taken place between them as none of the
witnesses was in a position to overhear their talk. If Vijay already knew
the contents of bag, there was no occasion for him to talk with Mohd
Wasim or if he did not know the contents of bag, question arises what
conversation had taken place between them. But there is no evidence in
this regard. Moreover, it is admitted case of prosecution that accused
Mohd. Wasim used to print the fake currency notes at his rented room at
Faridabad, if it was so, it means that accused Mohd Wasim had brought
the fake currency notes from Faridabad. During trial, prosecution failed to
convince the Court how Mohd Wasim had informed the accused Vijay
that he would reach there to deliver him fake currency notes. To my mind,
only calls detail of accused persons could highlight over the said mystery
but investigators did not deem it appropriate to examine their calls detail. 26. Prosecution case is that accused Mohd. Wasim used to
print fake currency notes with the help of computer and scanner in a
rented room at Faridabad. Admittedly, the alleged computer and scanner
were not recovered from the alleged rented room. PW8 in his cross-
examination deposed that co-accused namely Saleem and Zafeer had
removed the said computer and scanner from the said room. But during
investigation, police failed to collect any evidence in this regard. In the
absence of any evidence, no reliance can be placed on the deposition of
PW8 that the said computer and scanner were removed by Saleem and
Zafeer. 27. It is admitted case of the prosecution that accused Mohd.
Wasim was arrested on January 13, 2009 and he made a disclosure
statement about the above computer and scanner on January 13, 2009
itself. Admittedly, police conducted the raid at Faridabad on January 14,
2009 at about 8 pm. But during the period i.e when accused was
apprehended and when police party visited Faridabad, no effort was
made to alert the local police to keep an eye on the said room. Had the
investigating officer alerted the local police about the said room and
computer & scanner, it would not be possible for the alleged companions
of Mohd. Wasim to remove the same. This lapse further casts a doubt
over the credibility and capability of the investigators. On the contrary,
PW8 even did not deem it appropriate to inform the local police about the
search of the house of Mohd. Wasim. Needless to say that investigation
of a case is a team work, thus investigator may need the assistance of
different agencies for effective and prompt investigation. But in the instant
case it appears that investigators preferred to go alone. Such approach is
not appreciable. 28. Prosecution case is that accused Mohd. Wasim used to
print fake currency notes at his room at Faridabad whereas he was
residing at Najafgarh. Accused Vijay was residing at Raghubir Nagar.
Admittedly, it is not the prosecution case that accused Vijay also used to
print fake currency notes at his house. If it was so, prosecution failed to
convince the Court how the partly printed currency notes could be
recovered from his house. It looks quite absurd that accused Vijay would
bring it from Faridabad. This further casts a doubt over the alleged
recovery. 29. Prosecution case is that on January 15, 2009 PW8 along
with the police party and accused Mohd Wasim left for Etah, Uttar
Pradesh to apprehend the co-accused Saleem and Zafeer in a Qualis
Car. PW8 in his cross-examination deposed that the distance between
Delhi and Etah is about 100 km. Learned counsel appearing for accused
during the course of arguments placed on record the bus ticket of U.P
Roadways from Delhi to Etah showing that the distance between both the
cities is 210 km. I have also confirmed the same from internet, which
shows that the road distance between both the cities is about 207 km.
This itself casts a doubt over the visit of Etah and the claim of
prosecution that sincere efforts were made to apprehend Saleem and
Zafeer. 30. There is another reason to cast a doubt over the
prosecution version that they had visited Etah to apprehend Saleem and
Zafeer. PW8 in his cross-examination admitted that they had gone to
Etah in a private Qualis car. He further admitted that the said car
belonged to his friend Sachin Bhalla, who had given his car to him under
obligation. However, he swiftly added that he had paid ` 1500/- for fuel

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 19 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others charges and no official vehicle was available on that day. He further
deposed that he did not remember whether he had claimed said fuel
charges from the office or not, but admitted that he had not mentioned all
these facts in his case diary. PW8 is the sub-inspector in the Special Cell,
Northern Range. Special Cell is a unit of Delhi Police to deal with the
heinous crimes and said Unit is well equipped with all necessary
instruments including vehicles. No police official is supposed to take
personal obligation of his known or friends at the time of conducting
investigation. Being the sub-inspector, it was his duty not to take the car
under personal obligation of his friend. Assuming for the sake of
arguments that no official vehicle was available on that particular day, he
should have hired a vehicle instead of taking the vehicle under personal
obligation. Needless to say that investigation should not only be impartial
but also transparent, how can Society expect an impartial and
transparent investigation, if investigators have to take personal obligation
for a vehicle for the purpose of investigation. It is duty of higher police
officers to ensure that the investigators get every facility for the purpose
of conducting an impartial and transparent investigation. Simultaneously,
I do not find any reason why an investigator be compelled to bear the fuel
charges when he hired the vehicle for the purpose of investigation. It is
duty of higher officers to protect the honest investigators from bearing
such charges. No doubt some time circumstances may compel the
investigators to use private vehicles in conducting the raid to conceal
their identity from the culprits but in such a situation proper record to
such vehicles should be placed on record. For instance, the meter
reading of such vehicle should be noted down in the rojnamcha register
at the time of its inducting the vehicle in the raid and a temporary log
book should also be maintained to show the total distance travelled by
such vehicles. Had the investigating officer maintained a log book of the
Qualis car, prosecution would be in a position to explain the approximate

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 20 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others distance travelled by the said car to clarify that the distance of Etah was
about 200 km and not 100 km as deposed by PW8. But unfortunately,
PW8 had not maintained any log book of said Qualis car while using it for
conducting raid at Etah. Though at the time of using private car bearing
no. UP-14V-2777, ASI Rakesh had made an entry in DD No.6 but it is not
clarified to whom the said car belonged to and who had arranged the
said car. Even its meter reading was not noted down. Nor any log book of
the said car was maintained. In other cases also this Court has noticed
that investigating officers of Special Cell are in the habit of using private
vehicles at the time of conducting investigation without maintaining the
proper record of such vehicles. Needless to say that log book may help
the Court to arrive at a right conclusion as and when a question is raised
over the truthfulness of the deposition of police official witnesses. To my
mind for the purpose of an impartial and transparent investigation some
guidelines are to be framed in this regard. Moreover, this act (taking
private vehicle under obligation) of police officials is contrary to their
version that when they ask public persons to join investigation they
refuse on some flimsy grounds and even refuse to disclose their name
and addresses but as and when they need private vehicles their friends
and known are always ready and willing to render their service by
providing their vehicles without any charges. 31 Considering the above lapses, the prosecution version that
efforts were made to apprehend Saleem and Zafeer by conducting raid at
Etah does not inspire any confidence. 32. Now coming to the contention of learned counsel for
accused persons that no reliance can be placed on the prosecution case
as there was delay of 22 days in sending the case property to Nasik

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 21 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others Press for analysing. In support of their contention, they relied upon the
judgment Desh Raj @ Dass v. State , 2000 CRI.L.J. 2083 and Safiullah
v. State, I-1993 (1) Crimes 204. 33. I have gone through both the judgment and of the view that
the same are not applicable in the present case as in the former
judgment neither MCH(M) was examined nor CFSL form was filled up.
Similarly, in the second judgment neither the CFSL form was filled up nor
road certificate was exhibited or produced. Whereas in the instant case
prosecution has examined the MHC(M) as PW9 who categorically
deposed that on January 13, 2009 ASI Rakesh Kumar had deposited two
sealed parcels duly sealed with the seal of RK and form FSL duly sealed
with the seal of RK. Similarly, on January 14, 2009 four parcels duly
sealed with the seal of SB and FSL form were deposited with him. He
further deposed that on February 5, 2009 he had handed over the case
property to SI Satender Vashist vide road certificate no. 14/21/2009 to
deposit the same at Nasik Press and after depositing the same, SI
Satender had returned the acknowledgement. His testimony is
corroborated by PW8 in his deposition. No doubt there is delay of about
22 days in sending the case property to Nasik Press but the said delay
cannot be called inordinate delay which may affect the prosecution case
in any manner especially when prosecution has not only examined the
MHC(M) but also proved road certificate during the trial. 34. Now coming to the case of individual accused. As already
discussed that there are not sufficient evidence to prove the guilt of
accused Mahender Pal and Vijay. Now turning to the case of accused
Mohd Wasim. Prosecution case is that accused Mohd Wasim had
handed over a bag containing fake currency notes worth of ` 50,000/- and also found in the possession of fake currency notes worth of
` 30,000/-. This fact is proved from the testimony of PW5 to PW7. No
doubt the testimony of said witnesses is not corroborated from any
independent corner but as already discussed that mere fact that the
investigating officer failed to persuade any independent witness at the
time of alleged recovery is not sufficient to discard their testimony.
Learned counsel appearing for the accused pointed out contradictions
between the testimony of PW5 on the one hand and testimony of PW6
and PW7 on the other hand as PW5 deposed that Vijay had come from
Metro side whereas accused Mohd. Wasim and Mahinder Pal came from
Aventika side. On the converse other two witnesses namely PW6 and
PW7 deposed that accused Wasim and Mahinder Pal came from Metro
side while Vijay came from Aventika side. No doubt there is contradiction
between the witnesses in this regard. Admittedly, PW5 was examined
twice, firstly on August 4, 2010 and secondly on September 20, 2011. In
his former deposition, PW5 deposed that accused Vijay had come from
Aventika side whereas other two accused had come from metro side.
However in his subsequent statement he deposed vice-versa. Thus, it
appears that contradiction had occurred due to some confusion. To my
mind said contradiction is not material in nature, thus not fatal to the
prosecution case. Similarly, it was pointed out that PW5 deposed that the
disclosure statement of accused persons were recorded in the Special
Cell whereas PW8 deposed that he had recorded the same at the spot.
Since, the said disclosure statements are not admissible in evidence and
as already discussed Court is not placing any reliance on the recovery
allegedly recovered from the house of accused Mohd. Wasim and Vijay,
to my mind said inconsistency is not fatal to the prosecution case in any
manner. 35. From the testimony of PW5 to PW7 it is established that
accused Mohd. Wasim was apprehended on January 13, 2009 from
opposite Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital, Rohini and was found in the
possession of fake currency notes worth of ` 30,000/- and fake currency
notes worth of ` 50,000/- were recovered from the bag, which he was
carrying and handed over to Vijay. Though accused Mohd. Wasim in his
statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C. took the plea that he was
picked up from District Centre, Janak Puri but in support of his plea
accused failed to adduce any evidence. In the absence of any contrary
evidence on record, I do not find any reason to disbelieve the testimony
of witnesses examined by prosecution. However, their deposition only
proves the guilt of accused Mohd Wasim for the offence punishable
under Section 489C IPC. Though prosecution case is that accused
Mohd. Wasim had either printed the said fake currency notes at his
rented room at Faridabad or he received the same from Saleem and
Zafeer, yet during trial prosecution failed to lead sufficient evidence to
prove the said charges. As already discussed, in the absence of any
cogent evidence, prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of accused
Mohd. Wasim for the offence punishable under Sections 489B and 489D IPC. Similarly, prosecution has also failed to prove the charges of
conspiracy. 36. Pondering over the on-going discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of
accused Mohd Wasim, Mahinder Pal and Vijay Kumar beyond the
shadow of all reasonable doubts for the offence punishable under Section 489B / 489C / 489D IPC read with section 120B IPC, thus I hereby
acquit them thereunder. However, prosecution has succeeded to
establish the guilt of accused Mohd Wasim beyond the shadow of all

SC No. 42/2009 Page no. 24 of 28 State vs. Mohd. Wasim & others reasonable doubts for the offence punishable under Section 489C IPC,
thus I hereby hold him guilty for the offence punishable under Section
489C IPC. 37. In order to frame guidelines at the time of using private
vehicles during investigation, copy of judgment be sent to the
Commissioner of Police with direction to frame guidelines within four
weeks from the date of receipt of judgment under intimation to this Court. Present: Sh.R.K.Tanwar, Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
 Sh. Dinesh Sharma, Advocate, Amicus Curiae along with
 Sh. Deepak Yadav, Advocate for convict

ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE: Wasim has been held guilty for the offence punishable under Section 489
C IPC. 2. Learned counsel appearing for convict requested to release
the convict for the period already undergone on the ground that convict is
in custody since January 13, 2009. On the other hand, learned
Additional Public Prosecutor requested to impose maximum sentence on
the ground that convict was found in the possession of counterfeit
currency notes in huge quantity and is also facing trial in another case
bearing FIR No. 43/2004, PS Bara Hindu Rao, under Section
489A / 489B / 489C & 420 / 120B IPC. 3. I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel for the
parties, perused the record carefully and gave my thoughtful
consideration to their submissions. 4. It has been established that convict was found in the
possession of counterfeit currency notes to the tune of ` 30,000/- and `
50,000/- were found in the bag, which he had delivered to one Mr. Vijay
Kumar. Admittedly, convict is also facing trial of similar nature of offence
in another Court. The offence of counterfeit currency notes is quite
serious in nature as it affects the public at large because it is one of the
causes of high inflation. Considering the gravity of the nature of offence,
I do not find any reason to impose token sentence as prayed by learned
counsel for convict. 5. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, I
sentence the convict Mohd. Wasim rigorous imprisonment for a period of
five years and a fine of ` 30,000/- in default further simple imprisonment
for a period of one year for the offence punishable under Section 489 C IPC. Benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C be given to the convict. 6. The seized counterfeit currency notes be confiscated to the
State and be destroyed after the period of appeal or revision and if any
appeal or revision is filed then after the decision of such appeal or
revision. 7. Copy of judgment along with order on the point of sentence
be given to the convict/his counsel free of cost. 8. File be consigned to record room.