E-commerce marketplace Meesho intercepted over 2.2 crore transaction frauds and prevented over 77 lakh scam attempts over the last 12 months, according to the company’s 2024 Trust Assurance report . The platform states that this happened under Project Vishwas, which aims to build and maintain user trust.

As a primary measure, the e-commerce company partnered with the intelligence service provider and Device-First Fraud Intelligence Platform, SHIELD. Meesho claims that this safeguarded the platform against tools such as app cloners and GPS spoofers often used by fraud syndicates to exploit digital platforms.

Besides this, the platform deployed sophisticated data science models to combat bot orders. These models helped detect anomalous shopping behaviours like high order frequencies from single accounts and ultimately aided the prevention of 13 Lakh bot orders.

Meesho also closely collaborated with the Rajasthan Police, launching an awareness campaign against online fraud and championing transaction security and safe digital practices. Similarly, it created a partnership with the Karnataka Police at the state’s police training school in Thanisandra, where Meesho sought to impart specialised training and resources to equip officers in understanding fraud and cybercrime scenarios. The company also filed nine First Information Reports (FIRs) against 40 suspects in Kolkata and Ranchi.

The online retailer also filed a permanent injunction against scammers who misused the Meesho brand to run suspicious websites. Responding to this Meesho stated that the Delhi High Court recognised it as a ‘well-known mark’ and directed law enforcement authorities to investigate and take necessary punitive action against the perpetrators. Moreover, Meesho claims to have reduced lottery fraud by 75% since October 2023.

Finally, the platform asserts that its safety initiative, ‘ Project Suraksha ‘ has led to the deactivation of over 30 lakh counterfeit and infringing product listings alongside 10 lakh restricted products.

MediaNama reached out to Meesho with questions regarding the overall implications and future plans of Project Vishwas and the initiatives outlined within the same.

With 66% of Indians preferring online shopping due to the ample discounts, scammers now create fake shopping sites mimicking platforms like Flipkart and Amazon to lure consumers with unrealistic discounts as high as 99%, according to a Business Standard report. With this development, the survey reported that concerns about online scams among customers have also spiked by 78% since last year.

Earlier this year, a new malware campaign that stole payment information from online shoppers on e-commerce platforms using Adobe’s Magento platform was also discovered.

In December 2023, Amazon filed a lawsuit against an international gang of cybercriminals who allegedly abused the tech company’s return and refund system, costing it millions of dollars.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event