SHAJI P.CHALY,J. Captioned writ petitions are all Public Interest Litigations filed by various

organisations seeking to constitute a grievance redressal mechanism against the

sexual harassment as per the directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Vishakha v. State of Rajasthan [(1997) 6 SCC 241] and in accordance with

the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and

Redressal) Act, 2013, hereinafter called, 'Act, 2013'. 2. Even though the reliefs sought for in the writ petitions are similar in

nature against the various organisations having connections with film, Television

and other allied activities, and against various political organisations, the issues

are to be adjudicated, taking into account the provisions of the Act, 2013 since

primarily it will have to be decided as to whether the provisions of the Act, 2013,

applies to the organisations in question. Therefore, it is only appropriate that the

reliefs sought for in the captioned writ petitions are extracted separately in order

to have a proper understanding of the issues. The reliefs sought for in W.P.(C) No.33994 of 2018 are as follows: State of Rajasthan reported in (1997) 6 SCC 241 and the Sexual
 Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
 Redressal) Act, 2013 within a time limit prescribed by this Hon'ble Court; 3) Issue such other appropriate writ, order or direction which this Hon'ble
 Court may deem fit and just in the circumstances of the case.

 The reliefs sought for in W.P.(C) No.34273 of 2018 are as follows: 3. For the disposal of the writ petitions, we are relying upon the

pleadings put forth by the petitioners in W.P.(C) No.33994/2018. 4. The State Government has filed a counter affidavit in the said writ

petition and has filed adoption memos in the other two writ petitions. Whenever

the pleadings of the other writ petitions are to be relied upon, reference will be

made separately. 5. In W.P.(C) No.33994/2018, first petitioner is an organisation called

'Women in Cinema Collective', which is a society registered under section 12 of

the Travancore Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Registration

Act, 1955, apparently constituted for the welfare of women in Indian Cinema

with the objectives of ensuring equal space and equal opportunities for all

women working in Cinema with respect to all creative and other processes and

activities concerning the making of cinema and all related events; and also for

ensuring the dignity of women working in cinema in their workspaces by

promoting awareness and preserving the rights of women as guaranteed under

the Constitution of India. 6. Second petitioner is the President of the 1st petitioner society. Petitioner

in W.P.(C) No.34273/2018 is also 'Women in Cinema Collective'; petitioner in

W.P.(C) No.36059/2018 is claiming to be a registered organisation working on

the issues relating to women and children viz., Centre for Constitutional Rights

Research & Advocacy (CCRA). 7. The paramount contention advanced is that the 3 rd respondent

Association viz., Association of Malayalam Movie Artists (AMMA), which is having

registered office at Thiruvananthapuram, is an Association registered under the

provisions of the Travancore Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies

Registration Act, 1955 and its membership is restricted to Actor Artists in feature

films. According to the petitioners, as per the bye-laws of the said society, some

of the objectives are to protect the rights of the its members, to insist, maintain

and develop self-discipline and professional & social ethics among members; to

find out the issues concerning the artists; to analyse them and to find out

possible remedies; and to act as arbitrators in all disputes that may be submitted

to them for arbitration by the members and others in film industry. 8. According to the petitioners, 3 rd respondent association, in spite of being

the dominant professional Association for Actor artists in the Malayalam film

industry, it has failed to implement a grievance redressal mechanism for its W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 14 members against the sexual harassment at the workplace. It is also the case of

the petitioners that the omission of the 3 rd respondent Association is striking at a

time when revelations or widespread sexual assault and harassment of women in

film industries across the country have come out. 9. Therefore, the sum and substance of the contention advanced is that

the members of the 3rd respondent Association are helpless and without any

adequate remedy against the sexual harassment, directed against them in the

professional context. Accordingly, it is submitted that the inaction of the 3 rd

respondent association in setting out a grievance redressal mechanism against

the sexual harassment is also a breach of the Vishakha guidelines laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and also the violation of the provisions of the Act,

2013. These are the basic background facts projected by the writ petitioners, in

order to secure the reliefs sought for in the writ petition. 10. In W.P.(C) No.36059/2018, apart from the film industry, allegations of

sexual harassment are raised on members of a political party; and so also there

are allegations of sexual harassment against women, who are members of Kerala

Working Women Journalists and certain paper reports are also referred to. 11. Therefore, the sum and substance of the contention advanced therein

is that the aforesaid respondent organisations would also come under the W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 15 provisions of the Act, 2013. However, basically the relief sought for in the writ

petition would show that directions are sought to be issued to the State

Government to conduct an enquiry into the compliance of the provisions of the

Act, 2013 in the respondents 3 to 9 organisations viz., Kerala Television

Federation, Thiruvananthapuram, Indian Newspaper Society, Kozhikode, Kerala

Union of Working Journalists, Thiruvananthapuram, Film Employees Federation of

Kerala (FEFKA), Ernakulam, Indian National Congress Party, Kerala Chapter,

Thiruvananthapuram, Bharatiya Janata Party, Thiruvananthapuram and

Communist Party of India (Marxist), Kerala Chapter, Thiruvananthapuram, and

for a further direction to the respondents to set up a body for the conduct of a

social auditing in the establishment and effective functioning of the internal

committee under the Act, 2013. 12. The 3rd respondent in W.P.(C) No.33994/2018 has filed a counter

affidavit basically contending as follows; 13. It is submitted by the 3 rd respondent that in the case of a film

production, the workplace varies from different stages of pre-production, post-

production etc., and predominantly the workplace of film production will be the

shoot location; in a film shoot location, other than the members of the 3 rd

respondent, the major participants will be technicians, junior artists, production W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 16 team etc., in other words, in shoot location, numbers of technicians, junior

artists, production team etc. will outweigh the number of members of the 3 rd

respondent; the FEFKA is a trade union of all technicians in film industry, which

consists of 19 sub-unions, and each sub-union represents different sectors of

technicians in film industry such as make-up artists, junior artists, cameraman,

editors, directors etc.,; other than FEFKA, Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce and

Kerala Film Producers Association, are the other predominant associations in the

film industry. 14. It is further submitted that in the case of a film production, 3 rd

respondent is not an 'employer' and it is only an association of Actor Artistes in

Malayalam feature films; there is no employer-employee relationship between

AMMA and its members; 3rd respondent also does not have any control over any

film production since the artists are individually booked directly by the film

producers/film production house and all remunerations are paid by the said film

producers/film production house directly to each artists and other technicians and

as such, employer of a film production is the film producer/film production house

of that particular film production; if any sexual harassment in workplace occurs,

in order to have an effective grievance mechanism, a committee constituted by

the employer will be a suitable body; the Act also validates a grievance W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 17 mechanism constituted by the employer; the number of members of the 3 rd

respondent in a shoot location will only be nominal when compared to the

presence of members of other associations and the grievance mechanism, if any,

created by the 3rd respondent will not be effective, it is because of the fact that

3rd respondent has no control over other members of technician and producers

association. 15. It is also pointed out that the 3 rd respondent, complying with the spirit

of the Vishakha Guidelines issued by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, has already

formed a Women Cell Grievance Forum consisting of three senior lady artists in

Malayalam film industry; even though Women Cell Grievance Forum within the 3 rd

respondent Association is already in existence and is fully functional, the object of

the Act will not be fulfilled as the above Women Cell Grievance Forum has no

control over the members of Technician Association and Producers Association;

so also, the grievance as pointed out by the petitioners cannot be effectively

redressed unless and until a proper & effective Grievance Forum is constituted in

respect of workplace in film industry; Chapter IV of the Act, 2013 deals with

various procedures to deal with the complaint and Chapter V of the Act, 2013 speaks about the procedures to be followed in an inquiry into the complaint. 16. Therefore, according to the 3rd respondent Association, in order to W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 18 discharge the functions as contained in Chapter IV and V of the Act, 2013, an

effective Grievance Forum is to be constituted by the employer. Otherwise, the

whole procedure will become a mockery and the objectives of the Act, 2013

cannot be fulfilled. 17. According to the 3rd respondent, they always encourage a proper and

effective Women Cell Grievance mechanism so as to provide protection against

sexual harassment at work place; however, in the case of film production, since

the workplace mainly consists of members from other associations also, a

Women Cell Grievance mechanism constituted by respondent association will not

serve the purpose intended by the Act, 2013; moreover, the Act, 2013 provides

that the employer is the responsible person to constitute a proper Women Cell

Grievance mechanism in the workplace and Chapter VI of the Act deals with

duties of the employer. 18. It is further submitted that production of a feature film in Malayalam

film industry commences when the producer and director registers the film script

with the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce; any project without such registration

with Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce will not be qualified for final censorship

certification; for proper implementation of the provisions of the Act, 2013 in each

workplace in the film industry, the producers/production house can give a panel W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 19 of committee selected within employees of that particular film production in

accordance with the provisions of the Act at the time of registration with Kerala

Film Chamber of Commerce so that the said Committee can function within the

workplace of such film, AMMA is not against the constitution of an internal

complaints committee under the Act, however, as the same would not be an

effective remedy, a possible remedy is to constitute a committee consisting of

representatives of all Associations in the film industry so that the said committee

can effectively discharge the duties as contemplated under the Act, 2013. 19. Petitioners have filed a reply affidavit to the said counter affidavit

basically reiterating the stand adopted in the writ petition and pointing out

certain individual aspects that have taken place at various places, which

according to the petitioners, are workplaces in contemplation of section 2(o) of

Act, 2013. 20. The State Government has also filed a detailed counter affidavit

basically submitting that in the said writ petition, no reliefs are sought against the

State Government. That apart it is specifically stated that in contemplation of section 5 of Act, 2013, the State Government has notified the District Collectors

of all Districts as the District Officers to exercise the powers to discharge the

functions under the Act, 2013. It is also submitted that the District Officers have W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 20 constituted a Local Complaints Committee in contemplation of section 6 of Act,

2013 and designated 258 Child Development Project Officers of the Women &

Child Development as Nodal Officers as per section 6(2) of Act, 2013. 21. These aspects are evident from Exhibit R2(b) and R2(d), produced

along with the counter affidavit. It is further pointed out that in order to have

implementation of the provisions of the Act, 2013, administrative sanction was

accorded for the advertisement through newspapers as per Exhibit R2(d)

Government Order dated 21.6.2017. However, it is submitted that it is the duty

of the employer to constitute the Internal Complaints Committee in

contemplation of section 4 of Act, 2013. It is also the submission of the State

Government that the Local Complaints Committee have been constituted in all

the 14 Districts and Government have issued orders for re-designating the

Directorate of Women & Child Development Department as the nodal agency for

implementing the Act, 2013, evident from Exhibit R2(c) Government Order dated

13.8.2018. 22. Whatever that be, the Government have raised a contention that the

definition of 'employers' in section 2(g) of the Act, 2013 does not cover a

voluntary organisation like Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes and there is

no employer-employee relationship between this Association and Artists in W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 21 Malayalam Industry, and therefore, the employer-employee relationship does not

exist and the Government is constrained to legally compel the Association of

Malayalam Movie Artists to form an Internal Complaints Committee as per the

statute. But it is also stated that the Government feels that since a large number

of women are working in the Malayalam film industry and sometimes some of

them have to work at odd places at odd hours, the Association shall voluntarily

form guidelines to ensure the safety and security as well as uphold the dignity of

all women working in Malayalam film industry. It is also submitted that such

guidelines should compel the Producers/Directors or Production Controller/Site-in-

Charge, to provide the requisite safety measures on film locations, when women

are working in a room or a remote place or at odd hours of night. 23. Therefore, basically the State Government states that nothing prohibits

the Association of Malayalam Movie Artists from forming an Internal Complaints

Committee to prescribe and modify the guidelines as well as to inquire into the

complaints, if any, raised by any woman member of the Association. Other

aspects are also put forth to the effect that the Airline industry has formed

committees in order to deal with the harassment against women. It is also

submitted that several Medical Associations prescribed guidelines as code of

conduct or code of ethics to Doctors to uphold modesty of women during physical W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 22 examination or surgery. 24. Petitioners have filed a reply affidavit to the counter affidavit filed by

the State Government also and submit that the contention advanced by the State

Government that the Act, 2013 may not apply to the Association of Malayalam

Movie Artists, is not correct since the said contention is against the scope and

purpose of the Act, 2013. Petitioners have produced along with the said reply

affidavit, Exhibit P5 Extraordinary General meeting of Producers Guild of India,

wherein a policy is adopted by the said organisation in order to tackle the

complaints, malicious complaints etc., apparently to take action in accordance

with the provisions of the Act, 2013. 25. The 4th respondent in W.P.(C) No.33994/2018 has got itself

impleaded, which is a Cine & T.V.Artists Association (CINTAA) apparently

registered at Mumbai. Contentions are advanced by the said organisation also in

support of the contentions raised by the writ petitioners, basically relying upon

the submissions made in the affidavit filed along with the impleading petition.

The submissions contained in the affidavit are basically relying upon the

provisions of the Act, 2013 and we propose to consider those aspects together. 26. In W.P.(C) No.34273/2018, the 5 th respondent therein i.e., the Film

Employees Federation of Kerala (FEFKA), Ernakulam has filed a detailed counter W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 23 affidavit basically refuting the allegations and submitted that it is a federation

comprising of 18 registered trade unions as its members and associated with the

Malayalam Film Industry, which includes the Directors Union, Production

Executive Union etc. That apart, it is stated that the prime objective of FEFKA is

to act as a representative body for the purpose of protecting the rights and

welfare of its members and as a federation of several registered trade unions. Its

primary duty is to function as a representative body and use the power of

collective bargaining for acting on behalf of its members and for protecting the

rights of its members. Further it is submitted that to function in the Malayalam

Film Industry, it is not necessary to be a member of FEFKA. But once a person

becomes a member of FEFKA, it can represent the member and use its power of

collective bargaining to help and protect the rights of its members, with regard to

any employment issues. However, it is pointed out therein that a registered trade

union will not come within the ambit of a workplace as defined under section 2(o) of the Act, 2013 vis-a-vis its members and further, there is no employer-

employee relationship between the 5th respondent and its members. 27. Therefore, the sum and substance of the contention is that it is not

mandatory on the part of the FEFKA to set up an Internal Complaints Committee

as contemplated under section 4 of the Act, 2013. But the 5 th respondent in its W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 24 meeting held on 3/2/2018 has set up a committee of 9 members, all of them are

women, for addressing any issue relating to sexual harassment or any other

allied issues pertaining to the members under the 5 th respondent. Therefore, it is

submitted that the contentions raised by the petitioners against the 5 th

respondent that it has not constituted an Internal Complaints Committee in terms

of Act, 2013, cannot be sustained under law. 28. The third respondent in the said writ petition viz., Kerala Film Chamber

of Commerce, has also filed a counter affidavit basically contending that so far as

the said respondent is concerned, its workplace is only an office in Ernakulam city

with a few staff and all of them are male members. That apart it is stated that

the constitution and object of the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce are to

promote, aid, encourage and develop the production, distribution, exhibition of all

other branches of the Indian film or motion picture industry in all possible ways

in India and to provide the library for members and a place of meeting and

discussion of the commonplace of meeting and discussion of common problems

and generally for the diffusion of useful knowledge regarding the subject matter

of film and film industry. Therefore, it is submitted that there is no lady staff in

the workplace of Film Chamber of Commerce and there is no requirement for the

constitution of an Internal Committee to redress any grievances in contemplation W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 25 of the provisions of Act, 2013. That apart it is stated that 3 rd respondent settles

disputes & grievances in the film industry whatever complaints preferred before it

connected with the film trade, particularly, keeping in mind the gender equality.

That apart it is stated that the association has no workplace and therefore, it

cannot be compelled to constitute an Internal Committee . 29. A reply affidavit is filed by the petitioners therein also to the counter

affidavit filed by respondents 3 & 5, reiterating the stand adopted in the writ

petition. The Kerala State Women Commission, the additional 9 th respondent in

W.P.(C) No.34273/2018 has got themselves impleaded and the learned counsel

for the said organisation has advanced arguments supporting the contentions put

forth by the petitioners and also pointing out certain gruesome harassment faced

by the women and along with the same, a representation submitted by the

Commission before the Secretary, Department of Cultural Affairs,

Thiruvananthapuram is also produced, for the formation of Internal Committee

constituted by a Production Unit viz., Kabini Films with two women members and

two male members, in order to redress any complaint made by women in the

production unit. 30. In W.P.(C) No.36059/2018, 3rd and 4th respondent viz., Kerala

Television Federation, Thiruvananthapuram and Indian Newspaper Society, W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 26 Kozhikode have filed a joint counter affidavit stating that 3 rd respondent is

registered as a non-profit company under section 8 of the Companies Act, 1956

for the purpose of coordinating the activities of other member organisations and

the total number of members of the 3 rd respondent is 16 in number and there are

7 Directors also. It is also submitted that the 4 th respondent society is registered

as a non-profit company under the provisions of section 25 of the Companies Act,

1956 and the Kerala Regional Committee of the 4th respondent has 14 members.

It is also stated that the 4th respondent is set up with the objective of inter alia

acting as a Central Organisation for the Indian Press to promote and safeguard

the business interest of its members, to promote cooperation in matters of

common interest of its members, to collect information of topics of practical

interest to hold periodical conferences etc. 31. Therefore, it is submitted that 3rd and 4th respondents are functioning

with the aim of addressing the common interest of its respective members and to

enable their unified/collective representation. However, the 3 rd and 4th

respondents do not employ any person for the purpose of its activities. 32. General contentions are also advanced in respect of the applicability of

the provisions of the Act, 2013. Therefore, the prime contention is that the

applicability of section 4 of Act, 2013 mandating 'employer' of the workplace to W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 27 set up an Internal Complaints Committee comes into play only when the

'employees' as defined under the Act, 2013 are employed at such a workplace

and therefore, respondents 3 & 4 have not taken into employment any persons

nor do the said respondent maintain any workplace for their functioning, the

mandate of section 4 of the Act is not applicable. 33. We have heard learned counsel for the petitioners Sri.Santhosh

Mathew & Smt.Sandhya Raju, learned State Attorney Sri.N.Manoj Kumar and

learned Special Government Pleader Smt.S.Ambikadavi, learned counsel Sri.Rony

Jose for FEFKA, learned counsel Sri.S.Sujin for the Kerala Film Chamber of

Commerce, learned counsel Smt.Ammu Charles for AMMA, learned counsel

Smt.Parvathy Menon for the Kerala Womens' Commission, learned counsel

Sri.Talish Ray for the CINTAA, learned counsel Smt.Anagha Lakshmy Raman for

the Kerala Television Federation and Indian Newspaper Society and perused the

pleadings and materials on record. 34. According to the petitioners, failure on the part of the respondent

organisations to constitute a grievance redressal mechanism for its members in

the form of an Internal Complaints Committee against the sexual harassment is

arbitrary, illegal and violative of the fundamental rights of its members. It is also

submitted that the failure on the part of the organisations to constitute a W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 28 committees against the sexual harassment, is in breach of its obligations as per

the directions of the Honourable Supreme Court in Vishaka (supra) and under

the Act, 2013. 35. That apart, it is pointed out that even though the organisations are not

state under Article 12 of the Constitution of India, it would not bar the petitioners

from securing relief under Article 226 of the Constitution of India as the absence

of a grievance redressal mechanism by the respondent organisations is violative

of the fundamental rights of its members. That apart, it is submitted that there is

a pressing need for a grievance redressal mechanism against the sexual

harassment to be instituted by the organisations in the light of the recent abusive

practices and the sexual harassment faced by the women in the film industry and

particularly so, since the nature of the work undertaken by Actor Artists is such

that, once the production of a film is over, there is no longer a workplace for that

film where such grievance can be pursued. 36. In one of the writ petitions, wherein the political parties are made

respondents, it is submitted that all institutions having more than 10 employees

should have an Internal Complaints Committee but unfortunately despite the

legislation coming into force, the implementation has not happened either in

letter or spirit in the organisations. According to the petitioners therein, it W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 29 amounts to grave illegality as per the provisions of the Act, 2013 and the State

Government is bound to take action in accordance with the provisions of the Act,

2013. Therefore, it is the case of the petitioners that the absence of a grievance

redressal mechanism against the sexual harassment, for members of the

respondent associations, is violative of Article 14 , 15 , 19 & 21 of the Constitution

of India. 37. On the other hand, the State Government as well as the organisations

advanced arguments in accordance with the submissions deliberated above, and

basically contended that since there is no employer-employee relationship in any

of the organisations in the instant writ petitions, there is no requirement for

constituting an Internal Complaints Committee in accordance with the provisions

of the Act, 2013. That apart it is pointed out that none of the respondent

organisations are employing the Actor Artists and they are actually employed by

the producers and therefore, the Act, 2003 does not envisage constitution of an

Internal Complaints Committee in the scheme of Act, 2013. 38. Whatever that be, the learned counsel appearing for the Association of

Malayalam Movie Actors, which is the 3rd respondent in W.P.(C) No.33994/2018,

has submitted through its counsel Smt.Ammu Charles that it has already

identified four persons to be appointed as Internal Committee so as to deal with W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 30 the sexual harassment in workplaces and the names of the committee members

would be notified in accordance with law in due course. 39. The discussion of facts made above would also make it clear that the

FEFKA has constituted a committee of 9 women members even though they have

contended that there is no employer-employee relationship by and between the

Members of FEFKA & FEFKA. Needless to say, the FEFKA is an organisation,

wherein nearly 18 trade unions engaged in activities in the film industry, are

members. However, there is no employer-employee relationship between the

FEFKA and the trade union. Therefore, according to the FEFKA, FEFKA is not

bound to constitute a committee as per the provisions of the Act, 2013. The Film

Chamber of Commerce, which is also one of the respondents, has contended that

they are not having any women employees in their workplace and three male

workers are employed by them to manage the office and it is an organisation, in

which various organisations related to film industry are members. 40. Having considered the rival submissions made across the Bar, we are

of the view that in order to sort out the issue, a reference to the relevant

provisions of Act, 2013 is required. The Act, 2013 is an act basically introduced in

line with Article 11 of the convention on elimination of all forms of discrimination,

to which India is a party, which requires State parties to take appropriate W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 31 measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the field of employment.

It is also evident that the Act has its genesis in Article 21 of the Constitution of

India, which relates to the right to life and personal liberty, and includes the right

to life with dignity and in the case of women, it means that they must be treated

with due respect, decency and dignity at workplaces. 41. It is also clear that the introduction of the Act, 2013 was also due to

the reason that more and more women started joining the workforce, both in

organised and unorganised sectors, and for ensuring an enabling working

environment for women. The Act is also the outcome of the fact that the sexual

harassment at a workplace is considered violation of women's right to equality,

life and liberty, which creates an unsecured and hostile work environment, which

discourages women participation in work thereby, adversely affecting their social

and economic empowerment and the goal of inclusive growth. 42. While introducing the Act, the Union Government has also considered

the concept of equality provided under Articles 14 & 15 of the Constitution of

India, which prescribes discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex

or place of birth or any of them. That apart Article 19(1)(g) has weighed with the

Parliament, which gives the fundamental right to all citizens to practice any

profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business, and which W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 32 presupposes the availability of an enabling environment for women, which is

equitous, safe and secure in every aspect. 43. Now, coming to section 2(a) defining 'aggrieved woman' to mean, (i) in

relation to a workplace, a woman, of any age whether employed or not, who

alleges to have been subjected to any act of sexual harassment by the

respondent; (ii) in relation to dwelling place or house, a woman of any age who

is employed in such a dwelling place or house. 44. The "appropriate Government" is defined to mean,-- (i) in relation to a workplace which is established, owned, controlled or wholly
 or substantially financed by funds provided directly or indirectly-- (A) by the Central Government or the Union territory administration, the
 Central Government; (B) by the State Government, the State Government; and (ii) in relation to any workplace not covered under sub-clause (i) and falling
 within its territory, the State Government. 45. The "employee" is defined under section 2(f) to mean, a

 person employed at a workplace for any work on regular, temporary,

 adhoc or daily wage basis, either directly or through an agent,

 including a contractor, with or, without the knowledge of the

 principal employer, whether for remuneration or not, or working on a

 voluntary basis or otherwise, whether the terms of employment are W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 33 express or implied and includes a co-worker, a contract worker,

 probationer, trainee, apprentice or called by any other such name. 46. The "employer" is defined under section 2(g) means, (i) in relation to any department, organisation, undertaking, establishment,
 enterprise, institution, office, branch or unit of the appropriate Government
 or a local authority, the head of that department, organisation,
 undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution, office, branch or unit or
 such other officer as the appropriate Government or the local authority, as
 the case may be, may by an order specify in this behalf. (ii) in any workplace not covered under sub-clause (i), any person
 responsible for the management, supervision and control of the workplace.
 Explanation. --For the purposes of this sub-clause "management" includes
 the person or board or committee responsible for formulation and
 administration of policies for such organisation; (iii) in relation to the workplace covered under sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the
 person discharging contractual obligations with respect to his or her
 employees. (iv) in relation to a dwelling place or house, a person or a household who
 employs or benefits from the employment of a domestic worker,
 irrespective of the number, time period or type of such worker employed,
 or the nature of the employment or activities performed by the domestic
 worker. 47. The "workplace" is defined under section 2(o) , which includes-- (i) any department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 34 institution, office, branch or unit which is established, owned, controlled or
 wholly or substantially financed by funds provided directly or indirectly by
 the appropriate Government or the local authority or a Government
 company or a corporation or a co-operative society. (ii) any private sector organisation or a private venture, undertaking,
 enterprise, institution, establishment, society, trust, non-governmental
 organisation, unit or service provider carrying on commercial, professional,
 vocational, educational, entertainmental, industrial, health services or
 financial activities including production, supply, sale, distribution or service; (iii) hospitals or nursing homes; (iv) any sports institute, stadium, sports complex or competition or games
 venue, whether residential or not used for training, sports or other
 activities relating thereto. (v) any place visited by the employee arising out of or during the course of
 employment including transportation by the employer for undertaking such
 journey. (vi) a dwelling place or a house; 48. The "unorganised sector" is defined under section 2(p) in relation to a

workplace means, an enterprise owned by individuals or self-employed workers

and engaged in the production or sale of goods or providing service of any kind

whatsoever, and where the enterprise employs workers, the number of such

workers is less than ten. 49. On an analysis of the definition given to 'employee', it is clear that the

employee is a person employed at a workplace whether on regular, temporary, W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 35 ad hoc or daily wage basis, either directly or through an agent including a

contractor with or without the knowledge of the principal employer whether for

remuneration or not, or working on a voluntary basis or otherwise, whether the

terms of employment are express or implied and it includes a co-worker, a

contract worker, probationer, trainee, apprentice or called by any other such

name. 50. Therefore, it is clear that the basic requirement to become an

employee one should be employed at a workplace. This would be more clear, if

we analyse the definition of employer contained under section 2(g)(ii) . Section

2(g)(i) in fact deals with the department, organisation, undertaking,

establishment etc. of the appropriate Government or a local authority, head of

that department, an organisation etc. So that clause 2(g) (i) would not come into

play so far as the contentions advanced in the writ petitions are concerned

against the respondents in the writ petition because there is no case for the

petitioners that any of the organisations and the political parties would come

under the term "appropriate Government" or "local body" so as to persuade such

organisations to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee. 51. However, the thrust of the argument advanced by the learned counsel

for petitioners and the supporting respondents is that all these organisations W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 36 would come under section 2(g)(ii) of Act, 2013, which deals with any workplace

not covered under sub-clause (i) and any person responsible for the

management, supervision and control of the workplace. 52. It is true, an explanation thereto makes it clear that for the purpose of

the sub-clause "management" includes the person or board or committee

responsible for formulation and administration of policies for such organisation.

Therefore, according to the respondents, none of them would come under the

definition of section 2(g)(ii) because none of the respondent organisations have

any workplace to cater to the needs of the Actor Artists of the film industry. 53. According to the respondent organisations they have no control over

the producers or the film units and they are basically undertaking the resolution

of disputes in regard to the commercial issues that crop up during the film

shooting and other activities. That apart it is pointed out that they are employing

only a very meagre workforce in order to manage the office and many of the

respondents have contended that they have no women employees/workers in

their office. 54. The "workplace" defined under section 2(o)(ii) deals with any private

sector organisation or private venture undertaking, enterprises, institutions,

establishment, society, trust, non-governmental organisation, unit or service W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 37 provider carrying on commercial, professional, vocational, educational,

entertainmental, industrial, health services or financial activities including

production, supply, sale, distribution, or service. 55. Relying upon the said provision, learned counsel for petitioners

submitted that all the organisations included in the writ petitions relating to the

film industry, are discharging functions in contemplation of section 2(o)(ii) of

Act, 2013 and therefore, they are bound to constitute an Internal Complaints

Committee. No doubt section 3(1) of Act, 2013 makes it clear that no women

shall be subjected to sexual harassment at any workplace. 56. The question to be decided is whether any of the respondent

organisations are creating a workplace or creating an employer-employee

relationship in order to attract the provisions of Act, 2013 and thereby bound to

constitute an Internal Complaints Committee ? On an analysis of the above said

provisions, we are of the clear opinion that the organisations associated with the

film industries, who are made respondents in the writ petitions, are not

employers of the Actor Artists in the film industry. However, these organisations

have their own structure, in which employees are there and therefore, if there

are any women employees employed by such organisations, they are duty bound

to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee, if the employees are exceeding W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 38 10 in number in contemplation of section 4 r/w. Section 6 of the Act, 2013. 57. Section 4 of the Act, 2013 deals with constitution of Internal

Complaints Committee, which specifies that every employer of a workplace shall,

by an order in writing, constitute a Committee to be known as the "Internal

Complaints Committee": It also makes it clear that there should be an employer-

employee relationship and there should be a workplace managing the employer

to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee. 58. However, the proviso makes it clear that if the employer has different

office or administrative units of the workplace located at different places or

divisional or sub-divisional level, an Internal Complaints Committee shall be

constituted at all administrative units or offices. 59. Section 4(2) deals with the manner in which the Internal Committee is

to be constituted. No doubt, once it is found that there is employer-employee

relationship in contemplation of the provisions of the Act, whether engaged for

wages or otherwise, necessarily such organisation would have to constitute an

Internal Complaints Committee. 60. Whatever that be, section 5 of Act, 2013 deals with the constitution of

Local Complaints Committee and it specifies that the appropriate Government

may notify a District Magistrate or Additional District Magistrate or the Collector W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 39 or Deputy Collector as a District Officer for every District to exercise powers or

discharge functions under the Act. Section 6 deals with Constitution and

jurisdiction of Local Committee and sub-section (1) stipulates that every District

Officer shall constitute in the district concerned, a committee to be known as the

"Local Committee" to receive complaints of sexual harassment from

establishments where the Internal Committee has not been constituted due to

having less than ten workers or if the complaint is against the employer himself.

Other stipulations are contained under section 6 with respect to the designation

of Nodal Officer etc. 61. But fact remains, it also deals with the complaints with regard to the

establishments wherein the workers are less than ten or if the complaint is

against the employer himself. The phraseology "employee" under section 6 is

also very significant because it also visualises an establishment making the

employer liable to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee. Section 9 deals

with complaint of sexual harassment. Sub-section (1) thereto specifies that any

aggrieved woman may make, in writing, a complaint of sexual harassment at

workplace to the Internal Committee if so constituted, or the Local Committee, in

case it is not so constituted, within a period of three months from the date of

incident and in case of a series of incidents, within a period of three months from W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 40 the date of last incident. 62. From there, it can be gathered that even if the respondent

organisations are not duty bound to constitute an Internal Complaints

Committee, a complaint will lie to the Local Committee constituted under section

6 because the second limb of section 9 makes it clear that where there is no

internal committee constituted, the complaint can be preferred to the local

committee. Therefore, it cannot be said that even if the respondent organisations

have no direct employer relationship with the Actor Artists and consequent to

which no Internal Committee is constituted to redress their grievance against the

sexual harassment, can be raised against the person or the management, who

maintain a workplace. 63. To put it short, so far as the film industry is concerned, the production

unit is the workplace of an individual film and therefore, each production unit

would have to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee, which alone can deal

with the harassment against the women in contemplation of the provisions of

Act, 2013. 64. As we have pointed out, if the respondent organisations are

maintaining a workforce to maintain such establishments and engaged in the

activities in contemplation of the workplace defined under section 2(o)(ii) , then W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 41 individually such organisations are bound to maintain an Internal Complaints

Committee. These are the basic features that we come across so far as the Act,

2013 is concerned so as to arrive at certain definite conclusions. 65. We also make it clear that any organisations, establishments, private

institutions are employing workers whether for wages or not in contemplation of

the provisions of the Act, 2013 coming under the definition of employer,employee

and workplace, they are duty bound to constitute an Internal Complaints

Committee. 66. Even though learned counsel for petitioners have made submissions

relying upon the judgment in Vishaka (supra) and the judgment in Medha

Kotwal Lele and others v. Union of India and others [(2013) 1 SCC 297]

of the Apex Court, we find that the directions contained therein are directed to

continue till such time a legislative enactment on the subject is in place.

Therefore, consequent to the introduction of the Act, 2013, all the organisations

and institutions are guided by the provisions of the Act, 2013 and all such

institutions , establishments, organisations will have to adhere to the provisions

of Act, 2013. 67. In the light of the discussions made above, we are of the considered

opinion that; (1) The production unit of each film industry is an establishment employing
 Actor Artists and other workers and therefore, such production units have to
 maintain an Internal Complaints Committee, if they are engaging more than
 10 workers, as is contemplated under the Act, 2013. (2) If any of the respondent organisations, apart from the political parties,
 made as respondents in W.P.(C) No.36059/2018, are duty bound to
 maintain Internal Complaints Committee, if they are engaging 10 workers or
 more for managing the office establishments and wherein women workers
 are employed for wages or not. (3) If women workers are employed by any of the respondent organisations
 related to the film industry in which less than 10 workers are employed,
 then they are entitled to make suitable complaints to the Local Complaints
 Committee in accordance with the provisions contained under section 6 read
 with Section 9 of Act, 2013. (4) Since the Association of Malayalam Movie Actors - the 3 rd respondent in
 W.P.(C) No.33994/2018 has volunteered to appoint a committee to deal with
 any sexual harassment at its workplace, we record the same and accordingly
 to take action to notify the members of the Internal Complaints Committee, in
 accordance with law. (5). From the discussions made above, we find that the political parties,
 which are not having any employer-employee relationship with its members
 and which are not carrying on with any private venture, undertaking,
 enterprises, institution, establishment etc. in contemplation of a 'workplace' as
 defined under section 2(o)(ii) of Act, 2013, are not liable to make any Internal
 Complaints Committee. (6) In all other cases, a woman employee subjected to sexual harassment is
 entitled as of right to file any complaint of sexual harassment before the
 Local Committee in contemplation of the provisions of the act, and under section 9 r/w. Section 6 of Act, 2013. 68. Even though, we have clearly expressed our views with respect to the

extent of obligations of the organisations coming under the provisions of Act,

2013 to form Internal Committees, we convey our desire that the organisations

associated with the film industry viz., Association of Malayalam Movie Actors

(AMMA), FEFKA, Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce, Kerala Film Producers

Association, take steps to constitute a joint committee, by including the

members of organisations registered with them in tune with the provisions of Act,

2013 to deal with sexual harassment of women, which would definitely render

sufficient confidence to women Actor Artists and other employees & other W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 44 workers employed by the production unit ; which would in turn protect the

dignity, and make the right to life and personal liberty of the women in the film

industry more meaningful and fruitful. 69. Even though learned counsel for petitioners Sri.Santhosh Mathew has

invited our attention to the order of the National Company Law Appellate

Tribunal, New Delhi in Competition Appeal (AT) No.5 of 2017 in regard to an

issue arose under the Competition Act, 2002 by and between the Association of

Malayalam Movie Artists, FEFKA Production Executive Union, FEFKA Directors

Union, Film Employees Federation of Kerala and has rendered its finding that all

these organisations are intertwined, the subject matter of consideration therein,

was in respect of the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002 , which findings

cannot be brought into the instant case to sort out the issues raised in the writ

petitions on account of the Act 2013. 70. The deliberations made above also would make it clear that the State

Government has notified District Collectors of 14 districts in the State of Kerala

and all Heads of the Departments, to constitute Internal Complaints Committee

in all the Government, Quasi Government and private institutions, and designated

258 Child Development Project Officers of the the Women & Child Development

as Nodal Officers as per section 6(2) of Act, 2013. It is also clear from Exhibit W.P.(C) Nos.33994, 34273 & 36059 of 2018 45 R2(c) Government Order that administrative sanction is accorded for the

advertisement of the provisions of the Act 2013 through newspapers. The writ petitions are, therefore, disposed of with the above said

observations and directions. Sd/- S.MANIKUMAR
 CHIEF JUSTICE

 Sd/-