What’s the news: Just days after the news about Railways Ministry’s plan to monetise public Wi-Fi footfalls data, Rail Yatri, a train ticketing platform, confirmed a data breach that occurred in December 2022, reported The Hindu . As per the report, the confirmation came on January 4, 2023, days following the Ministry’s denial that user data leaked from the Railways’ side was sold on the dark web.

Users’ personal data accessed: As per a Rail Yatri spokesperson speaking to the newspaper, the platform noticed the security breach on December 28, 2022. Although the issue was fixed within hours, officials said information regarding some Rail Yatri users’ age, email, preference city and phone numbers “may have been viewed by unauthorised individuals.”

Then why did the Ministry deny a breach? To put it simply, the Railway board denied any data stolen from the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation or IRCTC (emphasis added). It did not mention reselling platforms like Rail Yatri in its statement. Instead, it asked platforms to evaluate their systems which led to this discovery.

Has such a breach occurred before? Sadly, yes. Back in 2020, RailYatri suffered a similar breach wherein 7,00,000 users were affected as per the Safety Detectives, a portal run by security researchers and privacy experts. Readers will also remember the AIIMS ransomware attack wherein hackers demanded ₹ 200 crore worth of cryptocurrency for the data of 2-3 crore people.

Incidents like these may sometimes raise the question of why private companies are working with government bodies to monetise people’s data if it’s so easily leaked on the internet. This goes to show that the Indian government needs to think about security measures as a priority.

Government focussed on monetising not safeguarding: You may recall that the RailTel, a public sector unit (PSU), plans to partnering with Global Information Technology Company, a private technology company, to show targeted ads to passengers. The public Wi-FI network recording over 1.1 million unique users per day will be shared for a perceived revenue potential of over ₹ 250 crore over five years.

Similarly, the central government also wants to process passenger data under the Digi Yatra project including biometrics, credentials and other sensitive personal data. Most think tanks raise concerns about a function creep wherein the government will misuse the data for other purposes. However, breaches like the ones suffered by Rail Yatra and AIIMS raise a bigger question of whether the government has taken up enough measures to safeguard people’s data.

As per the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2022, the failure of a Data Processor or Data Fiduciary to prevent personal data breach deserves a penalty up to ₹250 crores . Rather than such breaches, what the Bill and similar laws require are detailed provisions to ensure security safeguards for people’s data.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event