SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Credit Card hell from ICICI
DATE: 2019-01-28
SCORE: 40
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/akmjyy/credit_card_hell_from_icici/

--- POST TEXT ---

Wanted to highlight the egregious customer care I get for being an ICICI bank customer.

A couple of weeks back, I am looking for a VISA credit card. Seeing as I am already an ICICI bank customer and have an account, I decide to apply for a CC with them.
First thing, I have to fill out forms and give ID proofs. This was surprising, I am already an ICICI customer, I bank regularly and they already have all proofs. Why the hell don't you have a process that reduces this duplication of paperwork ? A huge red-flag for me, I proceed regardless.

This was suprising because AMEX and HDFC gave me CCs with little to no paperwork. Their process was frictionless.

I am a heavy user of CCs and own a couple of cards with a decent credit limit. I spend a significant amount every year in a strategic way and always pay my bills on time. You would think, I am precisely the customer, CC companies look for. 

But not for ICICI. I painstakingly take out paperwork for all proofs, photos etc and also fill out correctly, all the forms. There was only the one, btw.

I wait for 10 days for the CC to arrive and when it does, I open 'my precious' with great care, brimming with excitement, waiting for all the reward points that await me and lo and behold you have my name printed wrong on the credit card as well as the 'welcome kit', the wrong name also shows up on the ICICI app on the virtual card. 

How stupid do you have to be to fuck up in this manner ? I have an existing relationship with the bank, I gave all the paperwork which had my correct name and yet you got my fucking name wrong. Why the fuck would you make me jump through all the hoops if you were going to get my fucking name wrong ? I don't want to use the CC since its tainted. What do I tell the customer care guy when some fraud happens on the card and I need to explain the wrong name. I ain't going down that rabbit hole.

I am livid now. I calm down after a few hours and decide to give 'em a second chance and seeing as I waited for 10 days, I figure I could wait for a few more. 

I call up the customer care and first thing ICICI does is to make you wait. Then wait and wait some more and more and then, finally you have Mr. Nincompoop over the line. I explain my predicament to Mr. Nicompoop and specifically tell him to get my correct fucking name on the replacement/new CC. He says his peanut sized brain understood my command and he had put in a request for a new CC. He then makes me write three 'Service Request Numbers'. I write it down and think to myself, why isn't this automated. Why the hell did I have to spend 20 minutes explaining my predicament to this idiot and laboriously write down complaint numbers, where am in, 2000s ?

I let the anger depart my soul and think to myself, its the fuckin' weekend, chill and look at the silver lining, you will get your CC with your correct fucking name by Monday.

I receive the replacement card on Monday. Now...you know what happens next. Yes, you do. And yes, they got my name wrong, again. How the fuck does that happen ? I explained to your customer care rep and spelled my correct name, which I shouldn't be doing since I already have an account with you and yet you manage to screw it up. If its any consolation, its the same name as before. My anger now holds no bounds which in turn leads me to write this fiery post on reddit.

I want to beat up the asshole who heads the Credit Card initiative at ICICI. Such pathetic service. 

I have also decided to close up my account at ICICI and move all my business to a different bank. I dont wantvto be the customer/product of such a stupid bank that walks all over customers. I have decided on HDFC. If you have any suggestions, let me know in the comments.

I also request you to share this elsewhere on social media if you have faced similar instances of pathetic customer service or products. Consumer forums etc in India are a joke, if we want better products/services from companies in India, the only way is to highlight or shame them for the poor services they provide.

P.S. A lot of randians are assuming that I am some rich, entitled brat. I am not. In fact, you would be surprised by my student debt burden that I have to pay every month for my 4 years in college. Assets wise, I barely have a positive net worth. I am not from a family of means. I also am not asking the folks at ICICI to help me get laid or find hookups on Tinder. I am not asking the world here. Just decent customer service and to not fuck up the paperwork on the customer that already has an account with you. Have we gotten so used to pathetic customer service that we have deliberately set lower expectations from an important entity such as a banking institution.

I know as a country we have a lot more important problems, but gosh keep that out of the discussion here. Hold businesses accountable for what they truly provide to the customer.

Thanks.