1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under S. 134 , 135 , 29 & 27 of Trademarks Act, 1999 and Sec. 55 of the Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent injunction
 restraining infringement, passing off, delivery up,
 rendition of accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the
 defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala
 House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the
 case was received by this Court by way of transfer, on
 18-10-2022 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./NDD/
 PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal
 District & Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as 'Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. 3. It may also be noted that initially, the suit was filed against
 the defendant, who was arrayed as 'Ashok Kumar' on the
 basis of 'John Doe' principle as applicable in India and
 subsequently, after execution of local commission in
 pursuant to relevant Court's order(s), the plaintiff got
 substituted the defendant nos. 1 and 2 in place of previous TM/9/2020 Page 2 of 30 -3- defendant/Ashok Kumar (John Doe) and placed on record
 Amended Memo of Parties. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 4. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, in brief is
 as under:- [hereinafter referred to as 'said trademarks/ lables']

 4.6 Thus, it is claimed that ever since its inception, the
 plaintiff has been honestly & bonafidely,
 continuously, commercially, openly and to the
 exclusion of others, uninterruptedly and in the
 course of trade and as proprietor thereof, using its
 said trademarks/ labels in relation to its said goods
 and business and carrying on its said goods and
 business thereunder and have built up a worldwide
 and globally valuable trade, goodwill and reputation
 thereunder and have acquired proprietary rights
 therein. Thus, the plaintiff has claimed itself to be
 owner and proprietor of the said trademarks, which
 are stated to be registered, valid and subsisting as on
 date in favour of the plaintiff and details thereof
 have been given in Para No.7 of the amended plaint. 4.7 It is further claimed that Copyrights involved in the
 plaintiff' said trademarks/ labels are original artistic
 works within the meaning of Indian Copyright Act , TM/9/2020 Page 5 of 30 -6- 1957 and the plaintiff is the owner and proprietor
 thereof. The plaintiff has been dealing with the said
 Copyrights in the course of trade in relation to its
 said goods and business inter-alia within the
 meaning of Section 14 of the Copyright Act. The
 said trademarks of the plaintiff are enforceable
 within the ambit of the Copyright Act 1957, as well
 as by virtue of India's membership to the Berne
 Convention, the Universal Copyright Convention
 and the International Copyright Order 1991. 4.8 It is stated that the plaintiff maintains the highest
 standard of quality in relation to its goods and
 business under the said Trade Marks/Labels/Trade
 Name. The plaintiff invests heavily in R & D and its
 products are known for their highest standards of
 quality, safety, innovation and reliability and there
 is an ever-increasing demand, therefore. 4.9 Further, it is averred that the plaintiff operates in
 more than 160 countries around the globe and
 directly or indirectly employs nearly one million
 people through suppliers, shippers, retailers and
 other service providers. At the end of fiscal year
 2017, the plaintiff' affiliate businesses contributed
 approximately $5 billion of company's $30 billion
 in revenue. It is also claimed that the plaintiff has
 received a number of awards and have been widely
 recognized and details of awards have been given in TM/9/2020 Page 6 of 30 -7- Para no.14 of the amended plaint. 4.10 The plaintiff has also got domains name registered
 in its favour, viz. www.nike.com and
 www.nikeinc.com [hereinafter referred to as the said
 domain name/ website] and the plaintiff is also
 carrying on its business activities under the said
 trademarks on the internet through its said websites
 which are stated to be interactive in nature. It is
 stated that the said trademark NIKE forms an
 essential and distinguishable part of the said domain
 name, which contains extensive information about
 the goods and services provided by the plaintiff
 under said trademarks/ labels and has large number
 of hits and viewership. 4.11 Further, it is the case of the plaintiff that the plaintiff
 has regularly and continuously been promoting its
 said trademarks/labels and goods and business
 thereunder through extensive advertisements,
 publicity, promotions and marketing and has been
 making research and the plaintiff has been spending
 enormous amounts of money, efforts, skills and time
 thereon. The plaintiff has been doing so through
 various means and modes including through the
 visual, print and electronic media and all of which
 have tremendous reach, visibility, distribution,
 availability and circulation world over including in
 India. 4.12 Hence, it is stated that on account of its good quality
 and standards of manufacturing and untiring efforts
 in advertising and marketing, the products of the
 plaintiff under the said trade marks/ labels have
 become distinctive and have acquired secondary
 significance with the plaintiff and plaintiff's said
 goods and business thereunder. Further, the
 purchasing public, the trade and industry at large
 worldwide and in India identify, distinguish and
 associate the plaintiff said goods under the said
 trademarks/labels with the plaintiff and from the
 plaintiff's source and origin alone and regard them
 as high quality products exclusively as that of the
 plaintiff. It is further claimed that the said
 trademarks/ labels are well known trademarks
 within the meaning of Section 2 (1) (zg) of the
 Trade Marks Act and have acquired enviable
 reputation and goodwill across the globe including
 India. 4.13 It is further stated that the plaintiff's said
 trademarks/ labels as well as the goods & businesses
 thereunder have a very strong presence in India and
 are commercially available in India including within
 the jurisdiction of this Court. In addition thereto, the
 plaintiff enjoy trans-border reputation and users of
 its said trademarks in relation to its said goods and
 business as extending into India. 4.14 Thus, it is stated that in view of the plaintiff's
 proprietary rights both under statutory and common
 law in its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation,
 and its copyrights, the plaintiff has the exclusive
 right to the use thereof and nobody can be permitted
 to use the same or any other deceptively similar
 trademark/logo in any manner whatsoever in
 relation to any specification of goods without the
 leave and license of the plaintiff. 4.15 It is alleged that the defendants are engaged in the
 business of manufacturing and marketing, trading,
 selling, offering for sale, soliciting and marketing of
 readymade garments, apparels, clothing,
 sports-wear, Shoes, footwear, boot, sports related
 accessories, and other allied/related products and
 Tags, labels, cut-outs, boards, accessories,
 machineries and allied and cognate items
 [hereinafter referred to as the 'impugned goods and
 business'] and have adopted and started using the
 NIKE [with or without SWOOSH DEVICE),
 DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE AIR [hereinafter
 referred to as the "impugned trademarks/labels] in
 relation to his impugned goods and business. 4.16 It is stated in the last week of February 2020, the
 plaintiff came across impugned goods of the
 defendants under the impugned Trade Mark/Label
 in New Delhi Area. Being aggrieved thereby, the TM/9/2020 Page 9 of 30 -10- plaintiff' caused an inquiry in the market, which
 revealed that the defendants had just about in the
 Month of February 2020 adopted and started using
 and soliciting the impugned Trade Marks/Labels in
 relation to their impugned goods in New Delhi
 Area. The defendants are not only making the retail
 sales but are also supplying the impugned goods
 bearing the impugned Trade Mark/Label to various
 other dealers/shopkeepers/retailers including in New
 Delhi area, who are making the clandestine and
 surreptitious sales thereof to the unscrupulous
 traders and manufacturers of the counterfeit
 products of the plaintiff under the said Trade
 Mark/Label in the markets of New Delhi Area viz.
 Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Naraina, Gole
 Market, Mandir Marg and adjoining areas, etc.

 4.17 Thus, it is alleged that the defendants have
 dishonestly and malafidely adopted impugned
 trademarks/ labels NIKE [with or without
 SWOOSH DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE
 AIR, which are visually, structurally identical and/or
 deceptively and confusingly similar to the registered
 trademarks/labels of plaintiff NIKE [with or without
 SWOOSH DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE
 AIR in relation to same goods and business, thereby
 causing confusion and deception amongst the
 unwary purchasing public and traders by making TM/9/2020 Page 10 of 30 -11- them believe that the origin of those goods are the
 plaintiff. It has been averred that by doing so, the
 defendants are not only damaging the reputation and
 goodwill of the plaintiff by passing off its
 substandard products as that of the plaintiff, but, are
 also causing financial loss to the plaintiff by reaping
 unfair advantage of the repute and distinctive
 character of the trademarks of the plaintiff. 4.18 On these facts and circumstances, the plaintiff has
 filed the present suit against the defendants praying
 therein, inter alia, that decree of permanent
 injunction may be passed restraining the defendants
 and all others acting for and on their behalf from
 using, selling, soliciting, importing, exporting,
 displaying, advertising or by any other mode or in
 any manner using impugned trademarks/ labels
 NIKE [with or without SWOOSH DEVICE),
 DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE AIR or any other word
 mark/trade marks/labels which may be identical
 with and/or deceptively similar to the registered
 trademarks/ labels of the plaintiff NIKE [with or
 without SWOOSH DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT,
 NIKE AIR in relation to same goods and business,
 thereby infringing plaintiff' registered trademarks,
 copyright and passing off their products as that of
 the plaintiff. 5. The suit was accompanied with applications - one under
 Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC and another under Order
 XXVI Rule 9 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction
 and ex parte order for appointment of local commissioner
 to visit and search the premises of the defendant. After
 hearing counsel of the plaintiff, the said applications were
 allowed, vide common order dated 17-03-2020 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of its Court, thereby granting ex parte ad
 interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant and two Local Commissioners were also
 appointed to visit and search the premises of the
 defendants with certain conditions as mentioned therein. 6. As already noted above, subsequent to execution of local
 commission, the plaintiff had moved an application for
 substitution of name of John Doe entity with the name of
 the defendants, which was allowed, vide order dated
 01-06-2022, passed by Ld. Predecessor of the Court. 7. At this juncture, it may also be noted that the present
 case was received by this Court on 18-10-2022, as already
 noted above in Para no.2, and an application under Order
 VI Rule 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the plaintiff
 seeking amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing
 specified value to be above Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the
 present suit within the ambit of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in case of Vishal Pipes Limited (supra). 8. Since the defendants were still to be served,the notice of
 the aforesaid application along with copy of entire paper
 book were directed to be issued to them. However, since
 the defendants could not be served through ordinary mode
 of service, they were served through substituted mode of
 service by way of publication in daily newspapers - The
 Statement (English edition) and Dainik Jagran (Hindi
 Edition), both dated 24-2-2024, in terms of order dated
 09-01-2024 passed by this Court, while allowing the
 application under Order V Rule 20 CPC of plaintiff for
 substituted service. Since despite being served through
 publication in aforesaid newspapers, none had appeared on
 behalf of defendants, therefore, they were proceeded
 against ex parte, vide order dated 04-06-2024, passed by
 this Court. 9. The aforesaid amendment application was also allowed
 and the plaintiff was directed to file requisite deficient
 Court Fee on record due to enhancement of valuation of
 the suit, vide order dated 21-8-2024, passed by this Court. 10. In view of above, the position as emerges on record is that
 no written statement is filed by either of the defendants
 either to the original plaint or even to the amended plaint. 11. In support of its case, the plaintiff has examined only one
 witness i.e. its AR namely Mrs. Meena Bansal as PW1.
 She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit TM/9/2020 Page 13 of 30 -14- [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and has relied on the following documents:- 12. Ex parte evidence of the plaintiff was closed on
 09-09-2024. After the closure of PE, ex parte final
 arguments were heard. 13. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up prayers/reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause Nos. 37(b)
 and 37(d) of the amended plaint regarding restraining the
 defendants from disposing off or dealing with their assets
 and rendition of accounts of profit respectively.
 Accordingly, the plaintiff was permitted to give up the said
 reliefs, vide order dated 28-10-2024. 14. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF: 15. In support of his case, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has
 advanced the following arguments:- ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 16. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION: 17. Firstly, as regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is submitted
 by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the defendants are making
 clandestine and surreptitious sales, offering for sale, and
 are also supplying, purveying, displaying, and soliciting,
 have intention to sell their impugned goods and business
 under the impugned trade mark/label in New Delhi Area
 viz. Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Naraina, Gole
 Market, Mandir Marg and adjoining areas etc. and thus,
 the defendants are committing the impugned acts of
 infringement and passing-off in the markets of New Delhi
 Area viz. Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Naraina, Gole
 Market, Mandir Marg and adjoining areas etc. situated
 within the jurisdiction of this Court by selling, soliciting,
 trade, distribution, and marketing networks in relation to
 the impugned goods under the impugned trademark/label.
 Further, it is stated that the dynamic effects of the
 defendants' activities are being felt in the markets of New
 Delhi, which falls within territorial jurisdiction of this
 Court and thus, it is contended that whole or part cause of
 action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this
 Court within the meaning of S. 20 CPC. 18. Besides, it is further argued by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff
 that the plaintiff is also carrying on its said goods and
 business under its said trademarks/labels through its
 through its dealers and distributors and exclusive and
 special agent/store at: DLF Promenade Mall, SN 212, PN
 3, Phase 2. Vasant Kunj, New Delhi 110070, which fall
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Apart from
 above, it is also argued that plaintiff' said goods are also
 available, sold, purchased and delivered through its
 interactive website www.nike.com as well as through big
 online marketplaces like Flipkart, Amazon, Snapdeal, etc.
 which are freely accessible from any place of the country
 including the places situated within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is contended that this
 Court has also territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try
 the present suit within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of the
 Trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. 19. The PW1 has categorically deposed in her affidavit in
 evidence on identical lines of the averments made in the
 plaint. PW-1 has proved printout of screenshots of
 plaintiff's own website and website of Amazon as
 Ex.PW-1/7. As per these documents, it is duly shown that
 the plaintiff' goods are available on its website as well as
 on said website of Amazon, which are stated to be
 interactive in nature and through which, the goods can be
 sold, purchased and delivered at any place throughout TM/9/2020 Page 18 of 30 -19- length and breadth of the country including from the
 places situated within the jurisdiction of this Court. 20. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendants have neither filed written
 statement, nor have chosen to cross-examine PW1. 21. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as 2009
 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling Entertainment,
 Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " reported as 2014 (60)
 PTC 452 (Del.) (DB); and "Burger King v. Tekchand",
 reported as 2018 (76) PTC 90 (Del.), the Court is of the
 considered opinion that the plaintiff has been able to
 satisfy the test of purposeful availment of the plaintiff'
 goods under the trademarks / labels within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court, as stipulated in the said
 judgments delivered by Hon'ble Delhi High Court. 22. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of the
 facts and circumstances of the case and in view of the
 above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact that
 evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion that
 at least part of cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, this
 Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and
 entertain the suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 23. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors " , reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trade mark, to quote:- 24. Further, our own Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace & Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries
 Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC 63 (Del) laid down the principle
 as to how infringement of trade mark is to be seen,
 to quote:- 25. In view of above law, lets examine the facts of the case in
 hand. The averments made in the plaint are duly supported
 by the documents proved during the course of evidence.
 PW-1 has deposed on the identical lines of averments
 made in the plaint and has proved various documents, as
 already referred to above. 26. In the case titled as "Amrish Agarwal Vs. M/s Venus
 Home Appliances Pvt. Ltd" in CM (M) 1059/2018 dated
 27-08-2019, passed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court, it was,
 inter alia, directed that in trademark infringement matters,
 the following documents ought to be necessarily filed
 along with the plaint. The relevant Para no.7 of its
 judgment is reproduced hereunder: 27. In this case, the plaintiff has relied upon and has filed
 printout of online status reports from the website of trade
 mark registry along with copy of Registration Certificates
 and print out of Legal Proceedings Certificate, which are
 duly proved by PW-1 as Ex.PW1/4 (Colly) and Ex.PW1/5
 (Colly.). As per these documents, it is duly shown that
 trademarks/ labels NIKE, NIKE AIR, DRI-FIT and
 FLYKNIT are registered as word marks/ labels/ device
 mark etc. in favour of the plaintiff since long under various
 classes. Further, during the course of final arguments,
 counsel of plaintiff has stated at Bar that the registration of
 trade marks/ word marks/ device marks/labels stand
 renewed and are valid till date. 28. As already noted above, the defendants, despite being
 served by way of publication, chose not to appear before
 this Court and consequently, they were proceeded against TM/9/2020 Page 23 of 30 -24- as ex parte. Moreover, none appeared to cross-examine
 PW1. Therefore, the entire testimony of PW-1 has gone
 unrebutted, uncontroverted and unchallenged and thus, the
 case of the plaintiff stood proved against the defendants on
 the basis of preponderance of probability. It is duly
 established on record that the trademarks/ labels NIKE,
 besides other trade marks/ labels, are duly registered in
 favour of the plaintiff and also that same are valid and
 subsisting as on date in favour of the plaintiff. 29. Further, the Local Commissioners had also found
 infringed goods bearing impugned trademarks /labels
 NIKE from the premises of defendants at the time of
 execution of commission. Local Commissioners' Reports,
 as available on record, would reveal that both the
 defendants were found present at their respective premises. 30. As per Inventory List, infringed goods i.e. approx.1430
 pieces lowers and approx. 720 pieces of T-shirt, 14 jackets
 and 12 pair of socks bearing impugned trade mark/ logo
 NIKE were recovered from the premises of defendant
 no.1, whereas, infringed goods i.e. approx.. 365 pieces of
 T-shirt bearing impugned trade mark/ labels NIKE were
 recovered from the premises of the defendant no.2.
 Besides, labels bearing impugned trademark Nike were
 also recovered from the premises of both the said
 defendants. 31. Thus, it is shown that the premises were searched in the TM/9/2020 Page 24 of 30 -25- presence of the defendants and infringed goods were
 seized from the premises of the defendants. The seized
 infringed goods bearing impugned trademarks/labels were
 handed over to the defendants, in terms of relevant order,
 on superdari. 32. Since, the commission were executed in the presence of
 the defendants, it cannot be believed that they were not
 having any knowledge of proceedings going on before
 this Court and the orders passed therein. Despite that, they
 chose not to appear before this Court and contest the
 present suit and the reports of Ld. Local
 Commissioners also remained uncontroverted and
 unchallenged. 33. In totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 the Court is of the view that the plaintiff has succeeded
 in proving that the defendants were manufacturing,
 stocking, distributing and selling goods bearing
 falsified trademark /trade name/ labels NIKE [with or
 without SWOOSH DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE
 AIR which are deceptively and confusingly similar to
 the plaintiff' registered trade marks/ labels NIKE [with or
 without SWOOSH DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE
 AIR and therefore, trademarks and copyright of plaintiff
 company are required to be protected. Accordingly, the
 plaintiff is held entitled to decree of permanent injunction,
 whereby the defendants are liable be restrained from using
 trade marks / labels NIKE [with or without SWOOSH TM/9/2020 Page 25 of 30 -26- DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE AIR or any other
 word mark/ mark/ trade mark/ label which may be
 identical with and/ or deceptively similar to the plaintiff'
 said trade marks/ labels NIKE [with or without SWOOSH
 DEVICE), DRI-FIT, FLYKNIT, NIKE AIR in relation to
 similar goods, thereby infringing plaintiff' registered
 trademark, copyright and passing off their products as that
 of the plaintiff. DELIVERY UP: 34. As already discussed above, the infringed goods bearing
 falsified trademark/logo of plaintiff were seized by Local
 Commissioners and were returned to the defendants on
 superdari. Therefore, the defendants are directed to
 delivery up all above seized infringed goods, besides all
 other impugned finished and unfinished materials bearing
 the impugned and violative trade mark/label to the plaintiff
 for the purpose of destruction and erasure. DAMAGES 35. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff submitted that punitive damages
 may be awarded in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendants. In support of his submissions, Ld. Counsel of
 the plaintiff has relied upon judgment of Hon'ble Delhi
 High Court in case of 'LT Foods Limited v. Saraswati
 Trading Company ' decided on 11-11-2022 having neutral
 citation: 2022/DHC/004806. 36. The plaintiff has claimed damages to the tune of TM/9/2020 Page 26 of 30 -27- Rs.25,00,000/- from the defendants. On similar facts, in
 case titled as Super Cassettes Industries Pvt. Ltd. v.
 HRTN Cable Network , 2017 SCC Online Delhi 10943,
 wherein the defendant were ex parte and did not
 participate in the proceeding, counsel for the plaintiff had
 sought punitive damages, which was declined in view of
 the judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of Delhi High
 Court in case titled 'Hindustan Unilever Limited v.
 Reckitt Benckiser India Limited', ILR (2014) II Delhi
 1288. 37. However, as per law laid down by Hon'ble Division Bench
 in case of Hindustan Unilever Limited (supra), there is a
 need to see as to whether the case of plaintiff falls for
 exemplary damages. 38. As already noted above, the Local Commissioners, while
 executing the commission, found and seized infringed
 goods from premises of the defendants in their presence
 and handed over the same to them on superdari. It is
 evident from the said reports that the defendants were
 stocking and selling/ passing off the infringed goods
 bearing impugned trade mark NIKE as that of the plaintiff'
 products, thereby causing wrongful loss to plaintiff
 company and would have earned illegal profit. Further, if
 the seized infringed goods would have gone to the hands
 of the consumer/ general public, the reputation/goodwill of
 the plaintiff company would have gone down in the eyes
 of consumer/ general public as infringed goods were of TM/9/2020 Page 27 of 30 -28- average quality and were not up to the quality which is
 claimed by the plaintiff company. 39. In the case in hand, the defendants did not show up and
 participate in the proceedings in order to deprive the
 plaintiff to the benefit of rendition of accounts.
 Accordingly, keeping in view the overall facts and
 circumstances of the case including the quantum of
 infringed goods bearing impugned trademarks / labels as
 found by Ld. Local Commissioners while executing the
 commission and the relevant averments appearing in Para
 No.33 of the amended plaint to the effect, the plaintiff
 came across impugned products of the defendants under
 the impugned Trade Mark/Label in New Delhi Area and
 being aggrieved thereby, the plaintiff' caused an inquiry in
 the market, which revealed that the defendants had just
 about in the Month of February 2020 adopted and started
 using and soliciting the impugned Trade Mark/Label in
 relation to their impugned goods in New Delhi Area,
 whereas, the present suit has been filed in the month of
 March 2020, the Court is of the opinion that the plaintiff
 company is entitled to exemplary damages quantified as
 Rs.4,00,000/- (Rupees Four Lacs only), out of which,
 Rs.3,00,000/- (Rupees Three Lacs only) is to be recovered
 from defendant no.1 and Rs.1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh
 only) is to be recovered from the defendant no.2. It is so
 ordered accordingly. RELIEF: 40. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on
 the basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendants and the following reliefs are granted:- Superdarinamas are hereby cancelled; 40.3 The plaintiff is entitled to recover Rs.3,00,000/- [Rupees Three Lacs only] from defendant no.1 and
 Rs.1,00,000/- [Rupees One Lakh only] from
 defendant no.2 towards damages; and

 40.4 Cost of the suit is also awarded in favour of the
 plaintiff. 41. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 42. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance.