This appeal by the assessee is directed against order dated
16/02/2023 passed by the learned Commissioner of Income-
tax(Appeals)- National Faceless Appeal Centre (NFAC), Delhi [in
short the Ld. 'CIT(A)'] for assessment year 2013-14, raising
following grounds: of Rs.5,75,037/- Rs.5,75,037/ unexplained expenditure u/s 69C of Act. 3. Without prejudice to the generality of grounds of appeal no. 1 & 2
 above, on facts and circumstances of the case of the appellant and
 in law learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in not appreciating that the
 2,30,01,500/- as unexplained cash credit u/s 68 of
 addition of Rs 2,30,01,500/
 Rs.5,75,037/ unexplained expenditure u/s 69C of
 the Act and of Rs.5,75,037/- Act is on existent facts. 4. generality of grounds of appeal no. 1 & 2
 Without prejudice to the generality
 above, on facts and circumstances of the case of the appellant and
 in law learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in not appreciating that the
 2,30,01,500/- as unexplained cash credit u/s 68 of
 addition of Rs 2,30,01,500/
 the Act and of Rs.5,75,037/- R unexplained expenditure u/s 69C of
 Act has been made by assessing officer without bringing on the
 appellants assessment records any material in support of facts
 alleged by him. 5. Without prejudice to the generality of grounds of appeal no. 1 & 2
 above, on facts and circumstances of the case of the appellant and
 in law learned CIT (Appeals) has erred in not appreciating that the
 2,30,01,500/- as unexplained cash credit u/s 68 of
 addition of Rs 2,30,01,500/
 Rs.5,75,037/ unexplained expenditure u/s
 the Act and of Rs.5,75,037/- u 69C of
 Act has been made by assessing officer merely based on the some
 communication received by him without verifying the correctness of
 the same and without confronting the appellant with any material
 in relation thereto. 6. That the order of learned CIT (Appeals) being contrary to the facts
 of the case, evidence and material on record and law applicable
 thereto should be set aside, amended or modified in accordance
 with ground of appeal deduced above. 7. Each of the ground of appeal enumerated above are independent
 ind
 of and without prejudice to one another. 8. That the appellant craves leave to reserve to herself the right to
 add to, alter or amend any of the aforesaid ground of rounds of
 appeal at or before the time of hearing and to produce such further
 evidence,e, documents, and papers in support of its claim as may be
 necessary. 2. Briefly stated facts of the case are that the assessee , an
individual, filed its return of income for the year under
consideration on 30/07/2013 declaring total income at ₹ 12, 72,
400/-.. Subsequently, on receipt of information that assessee
 long term capital gain,
obtained accommodation entries of bogus long-term
the Assessing Officer recorded reasons to believe that income
escaped assessment and issued notice under section 148 of the
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 3 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 Income-tax
 ax Act, 1961 ( in short the Act) for reassessment under the
provisions
 ovisions of section 147 of the Act. A

2.1 During reassessment proceedings the Assessing Officer asked
the assessee to justify sale consideration of ₹2,30,01,
 01,500/-received
on sale of shares of "Essar (India) Ltd' as genuine. The Assessing
Officer referred to the investigation carried out by the Directorate
 D of
 Investigation), Kolkata, in the cases of some of the
Income-tax (Investigation
brokers, who were dealing in providing accommodation entry of
long-term capital gain
 in under section 10(38) of the Act
 A including in
the scrip of 'Essar
 Essar India Ltd'. he investigation revealed different
 Ltd The
steps of entire process of providing accommodation entry of long- /short-term capital loss. The first step is of
term capital gain/short
acquiring of shares of 'Penny'
 'P stock company. The term 'Penny'
stock has been referred in relation to the shares having very low
price or negligible price. The shares of 'penny' stock compani
 companies
were acquired by the beneficiaries of long term capital gain at very
 long-term
low prices mainly through the route of preferential allotment
 market transactions. In another route ,
(private placement) or off-market
the beneficiaries of long-term
 long term capital gain were allotted
 allott shares of a
private limited company, which was subsequently amalgamated
/merged with a listed 'Penny' stock company and the beneficiaries
 beneficia
 'Penny' stock in exchange of shares
received shares of listed 'P sh of
 company. In some cases, shares acquired
private limited company ac through
stock exchange were split and bonus shares were issued to increase
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 4 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 the volume. Under the second step, the prices of the shares of the
'Penny' stock companies were rigged through circular trading. This
process was managed by a group of operators
 operators for a period exceeding
one year. Under the third step, when the shares prices had been
 level,, the beneficiaries would sell their
sufficiently rigged to a high level
shares at the high/inflated
 inflated price on the stock exchange, which will
be purchased by a set of operators, named as exit providers. The
sale would result an exorbitant amount of capital gain in the hands
of beneficiaries,, which was exempted from tax under section 10(38)
of the Act. Under the fourth step, after sale of shares by the
beneficiaries, prices of the penny stock companies would fall and
the exit providers would sell the shares at loss and would claim
short-term
 term capital loss,
 loss which would be utilised for adjustment
against capital gain. The Assessing Officer has also referred to the
cash trail
 rail in such type of transactions revealed in the investigation
carried out by the directorate of Income-tax
 Income tax (investigation),
Kolkatta. For ready reference, relevant part of the assessment
 assessme order
is reproduced as under: Though they are registered as a client with share brokers, and Brokers
 maintains KYC for such bogus clients also, but these clients does not exists
 at their given registered address. In many cases it was found that such
 client companies are missing, or existing nowhere. Even the person of
 share broker could not find its clients. When share brokers were
 confronted with this, they either accepted that such clients are bogus or
 they failed
 ed to make any reasonable explanation." explanation. 2.2 purchased 45,000 shares
 In the case, the assessee had purchase
through 'preferential' allotment at ₹ 50 per share against payment
of ₹22,50,000/- though cheque dated 26/05/2011. The shares were
 wer
 assessee's 'D-mat' account i.e. electronic account
transferred into assessee
for keeping records of shares held by a person, on 14/07/2011.
The shares were then split on 23/02/2012 into 4,50,000 shares of
rupees one each. The shares were then sold in month of September
 dat on 'stock exchange' through a broker for a
2012 on various dates
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 6 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 total sale consideration of ₹2,30,01,500/-,, on which the assessee
 term capital gain of ₹2,06,99,474/
computed long-term 474/-, which was
claimed as exempted from income tax purpose under the provisions
of section 10(38) of the Act. 2.3 The Assessing Officer analysed financials of the company
namely 'Essar (India)) Ltd' and observed that it was neither engaged
into any substantial activity nor having any future plans
 plan and the
funds raised through preferential allotment had been not used for
business expansion but had been further advanced as loans and
 as how the
investments. The Assessing Officer further observed a
share price of the company were rigged in the period subsequent
 sub to
the purchase of shares by the assessee in preferential allotment.
The relevant observations of the Assessing Officer are reproduced as
under: inoperative. 2.4 For verification of the shares purchased by the exit providers,
notices
 s under section 133(6) of the Act were issued on 16/12/2016,
 Act
however,, same remained non
 non-complied. fi
 complied. The relevant finding of the
Assessing Officer is reproduced as under: invest. 2.6 For verification of the preferential allotment of shares to the
assessee, the Assessing Officer issued notice under section 133(6) of
 notice
the Act
 ct to the company M/s Essar (India) Ltd , calling for details is
provided in para 16.4 of the assessment order, however the notice
returned back with the postal remark the 'receiver refused'. 2.7 In facts, the Assessing Officer issued
 n background of the above facts,
a final show
 w cause notice to the assessee as
 as why the alleged sale
consideration
 ion of shares of 'Essar(India)
 'Essar( Ltd'' might not be treated as
unexplained
 nexplained cash credit in terms of section 68 of the Act. A After
 assessee,, the learned Assessing
considering submission of the assessee
Officer concluded as under: It may be sufficient to point out that the financial results of company,
 the trends in price movement, purchase of the shares of unknown Co.
 listed in exchange, very small capital and shareholders base of Co.,
 purchases by assessee of these shares without assigning any specific
 indicate to only one
 reasons for investing in such unknown Co; all indicate
 thing that entire purchase of shares of M/s Esaar India Ltd was
 nothing but a part of hawala accommodation entry. The conclusion
 that the assessee has paid cash for obtaining accommodation is not
 based merely on a confessional statements of Mr Anuj Agarwal and
 Mr Sushil Kumar Agarwal Directors of M/s Korp Securities which is a
 Share Trading company and created mainly for the purpose of giving
 accommodation entry to various beneficiaries in the form of Long Term
 names of beneficiaries have been culled out
 Capital gain. The specific names
 from the books of accounts maintained by the persons covered by the
 Investigation wing and it is only in these cases, information has been
 passed by the wing. The admission by Mr. Anuj Agarwal and Mr
 Sushil Kumar Agarwal, is not a bald statement. Most of the companies
 involved in providing accommodation entry to assessee were floated
 by them only. Therefore his statement cannot be brushed aside and
 his statement cannot be regarded as mere third party statement; her he is one of the parties to the transaction of accommodation
rather
entry racket and therefore his statement has great evidentiary value. 17. Once the hawala operator has already admitted to be
manipulating shares which is also proved by low financials of the
company to fetch high price in market, the burden of proving a fact is
said to be established under the Evidence Act and thereafter the onus
of proving that such fact did not exist, shifts to the person denying the
existence of such facts. Mere denial by the assessee without evidence
 serving and does not discharge the onus of proof, unless
is only self-serving
he is able to prove with evidence that the statement given by Mr Anuj
Agarwal and Mr Sushil Kumar Agarwal was unreliable. The denial by
assessee, also does not lend any credibility, especially in the light of
findings that the financial of the company did not command such high
price at all. Thus, it is apparent that the assessee has not been able to
discharge the onus of proving that he has not given any mone money as
cash loans or received back the cash loans with interest. 18. Findings and conclusion

The submissions made by the assessee and reply to show cause is
considered. The facts of the case, investigations made by various
directorates, statements recorded during the assessment proceedings
are considered. From the discussion in the preceding paras
 paras, it is
concluded that long term capital gains booked by assessee in her
 pre arranged method to evade taxes and launder money.
books were pre-arranged
Following are the findings and the reasons which substantiates the
findings. a. Mode of acquisition of the shares: The a ssessee has claimed to
 assessee
 have purchased the shares through preferential allotment.
 However, when letter was issued u/s. 133(6) of the Act, to Esaar
 India Ltd., calling for information regarding the assessee, the same
 was returned back by the postal authoriti es with the remark
 authorities
 "receiver refused". b. Sale of shares and unusual rise in the price: Further the assessee
 has sold the 4,50,000 shares at the price of Rs 2,30,01,500/
 2,30,01,500/-,
 thus resulting the long term capital gain of Rs.2,06,99,474/-,
 Rs.2,06,99,474/
 increase of the cost price, and as discussed
 which is 10 times the increase
 the rise in share prices is not holding to any commercial principles
 and market factors. c. Findings of Investigation wing: The findings of the Directorate of
 Investigation of Mumbai and Kolkata as discussed above have ha
 proved various brokers as entry providers, the scrip of Essar India
 Ltd. used for providing Bogus LTCG and cash trail in the case of
 paper companies. It is proved that the assessee had worked out
 an arrangement in which the shares were acquired by the
 ssessee, the share prices were rigged and then with the help of
 assessee,
 entry operators by routing the cash, shares were sold at high price
 to arrive at tax free capital gains. d. d. Analysis of transactions: Facts revealed that such trading
 transactions of purchase and sale of shares are not been effected,
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 11 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 for commercial purpose but to create artificial gains, with a view to
 evade taxes - i. Transactions of shares were not governed by market factors
prevalent at relevant time in such trade, but same were product of
 esign and mutual connivance on part of assessee and the operators.
design

ii. The assessee resorted to a preconceived scheme to procure long- long
term capital gains by way of price difference in share transactions not
supported by market factors. iii. Cumulative events in such transactions of shares revealed that
same were devoid of any commercial nature and fell in realm of not
being bona fide and, hence, impugned long term capital gain is not
allowable. e. Failure of Assessee to discharge his onus: The assessee has not
 been able to prove the unusual rise and fall of share prices to be
 natural and based on the market forces. It is evident that such
 share transactions were closed circuit transactions and clearly
 structured one. companies: The earning per
f. Financial analysis of the penny stock companies: make
believe transactions, as presented by the assessee. Truth or
 transactions must prevail over the smoke screen,
genuineness of such transactions
created by way of pre meditated series of steps taken by the
 pre-meditated
assessee, with a view to imparting a colour of genuineness and
character of commercial nature, to such share transactions. Needless
to say that one has to look at the whole transactions and a series of
steps taken to accomplish such share transactions, in an integrated
manner, with a view to ascertaining the true nature and character of
such purchase and sale of shares. 18.3 Accordingly, the whole transaction is executed through colorable
 transaction
 device with a view to evade taxation. The reliance is placed on the
 decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mcdowell in which
 the following is held: 18.3.1 Further, as per the human probabilities also, the above
 regard, reliance is placed on the
 transaction is not accepted. In this regard,
 decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Sumati Dayal vs. CIT 214 ITR 801 (SC). 18.3.2 Further more in the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 case of Durga Prasad More vs.CIT 82 ITR 540 (SC), it was held that
 the contents in the documents cannot be given undue importance and
 the reality and substance of the transaction is to considered. 18.4 Thus considering the findings of the search/ survey, inquiries
 conducted in the case of assessee, brokers, operators and the entry
 providers and the nature of transaction entered into by the assessee
 Rs.2,06,99,474/ as exempt u/s
 the claim of assessee of LTCG of Rs.2,06,99,474/-
 10(38) of the act is hereby denied and the amount of Rs.2,30,01,500/
 Rs.2,30,01,500/- received back as sales proceeds on sale of shar es is hereby added in
 shares
 the total income of the assessee as unexplained cash credit u/s.68 of
 the Act. Penalty proceeding u/s 271(1)(c) is initiated for furnishing
 inaccurate particulars of income with a view to concealment of income. 18.5 Further, Rs.5,75,037/-,
 Rs.5,75,0 , being 2.5% of sale value of
 Rs.2,30,01,500/ , is hereby added in the income of the assessee as
 Rs.2,30,01,500/-,
 unexplained expenditure u/s.69C on account of commission paid for
 arranging the entire transaction of bogus LTCG. Penalty proceeding
 initiated for furnishing inaccurate particulars of income
 u/s 271(1)(c) is initiated
 with a view to concealment of income." income. 3. Before the Ld. CIT(A) the assessee challenged validity of the
reassessment as well as merit of the addition. The Ld. CIT(A)
rejected the objections challenging validity of the reassessment
observing as under: 8. In our opinion, the Assessing Officer had sufficient material at his
 command to form a belief that the income chargeable to tax has
 escaped assessment. There is a clear Officer and his link between the
 information available with the Assessing formation of belief that the
 income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment......." 5.1 The decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Rajasthan is squarely
 applicable to the facts of the case under consideration. Further,
 reliance is also placed on the recent decision of Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi in the case of Saroj Bhatia v. Principal Commissioner of Income- Income
 tax [2022] 145 taxmann.com 237 (Delhi). Respectfully, following
 follo the
 same, the Ground No. 1 is dismissed." dismissed. 3.1 As regarding merit of the addition,
 additio the assessee before the ld
CIT(A), contended that all evidences
 evidence supporting to the transactions
 Officer, however the Assessing
were filed before the Assessing Officer
Officer has neither rejected nor objected genuineness of the
 file date wise events of
documentary evidences. The assessee filed
purchase and sale of shares of M/s Essar India Ltd. According to
the assessee, long-term
 term capital gain on transfer of equity shares of
Essar (India) Ltd was genuine in view of following observations: ge. b) Shares purchased are credited to demat account immediately on
 purchase without any delay. c) Shares have remained in the demat account for a period of more
 than one year. d) Purchase of shares is shown in my balance sheet for the year
 ended 31st March
 Mar 2012. e) Purchase cost is neither paid in cash nor is the purchase transaction
 back dated. (f)) Consideration for sale of shares is received by an account payee
 cheque. g)) Securities Transaction Tax (STT) has been paid on transactions of
 shares. h) Sale price of shares matches with the BSE quotations from the BSE
 website. i) There is no evidence that I have indulged in the manipulation of
 share price. j)) I took a calculated risk at the time of purchase of shares without
 knowing how the share price would reflect after a year or so. I would
 have made a loss if the share price had gone down. Therefore, merely
 because investigation wing has reported the scrip as penny stock and
 share price appreciated, it does not conclude that the profits are not
 genuine." 3.2 It was submitted that there was no direct or circumstantial
evidence against the assessee and entire premise of the Assessing
Officer was based on presumption and suspicion. The assessee
 Khemka,, director of M/s
further referred to statement of Sh Anil Khemka
Devshayam Stockbroking Privately,
 Privately, referred by the Assessing
Officer and submitted that the assessee had not executed any
transaction with Mr.. Khemka. The assessee submitted that he sold
the shares through a registered
 registe stock broker M/s B N Rathi
security on stock exchange platform and without any awareness of
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 16 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 the corresponding buyer. It was further submitted that share price
movement might be as a result of many factors including market
sentiments, liquidity position of the market,
 market, general economic
scenario etc. along with the fundamentals of the company. compan The
 no. of decisions, which have been
assessee also relied on no. reproduced by the Ld. CIT(A) in the impugned order. 3.3. The Ld. CIT(A) however, noted that firstly,, the prices of the
 (india Ltd were nowhere linked to the financial of
stock of Essar (india)
the company. Secondly,
 Secondly there had been price rigging and
manipulation in the trading of scrip of Essar (India) Ltd and thirdly
the assessee not being a regular investor and had earned long-term
 long
capital gain by investing in unknown company. The Ld. CIT(A)
relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the
case of PCIT Vs Swati Bajaj (2022) 139 taxmann.com
 upheld the addition of ₹ 2,30,01,500/-as
352(Calcutta) and up 2,30,01,
 ct and addition of
unexplained cash credit under section 68 of the Act
₹5,75,037/- for estimated commission at the rate of 2.5% of sale
value of the shares of Essar (India) Ltd as unexplained expenditure
 exp
in terms of section 69C 9C of the Act. 4. efore us, the learned
 Regarding ground No. 1 of the appeal, before
counsel for the assessee submitted that reasons to believe recorded
by the Assessing Officer are based on the 'suspicion
 suspicion' and without
'application mind'.. He further submitted that there was no
 application of the mind
 reason to believe having nexus
'tangible material' for recording reasons
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 17 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 with the assessee. In support of its contention, the learned counsel
relied on the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of
Anwar Mohammed Shaikh reported in (2023) 148 taxmann.com
288 (Bombay).. The Learned Departmentall Representative on the
 nd submitted that case law relied upon by the assessee are
other hand
in relation to new regime of reopening of assessment provided
under section 148A of the Act, whereas the case of the assessee
pertains to old regime of reopening , therefore the case law relied
upon by the assessee was distinguishable. 5. We have had rival submission of the parties on the issue in
dispute and perused the relevant material on record including
paper book filed by the assessee. assessee In the case, the AO has recorded
reasons to believe that income escaped assessment, which has been
filed by the assessee on pages 26 of the paperbook. For ready
reference, said reasons recorded are reproduced as under: assessees It is
 further informed that the office of the Pr. DIT (Investigation), Kolkatta had
 made investigations regarding accommodation entries of bogus capital
 gain/loss through Penny Stock. The enquiries have revealed that the
 comprises of various levels of operators who
 entire entry providing scam, comprises
 introduced the unaccounted cash of beneficiaries in their accounts
 through a layer of transactions and utilize the said cash for purchase of
 shares at manipulated prices which ultimately results in payment of the
 ount back to the beneficiary in the guise of sale proceeds of shares
 amount
 ostensibly resulting in Long Term Capital Gain to the beneficiary. Reverse
 modus operandi is adopted in order to provide entry of bogus Short Term
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 18 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 the both is to reduce the tax liability
 Capital Loss. The ultimate purpose of the
 of the assessee. 3. Assessee is one of the beneficiaries as per the information provided on
 ITD system. The assessee has entered in the transactions of shares and
 securities of Essar (India) Ltd. during F.Y. 2012-13 andd earn bogus LTCG
 Rs.2,30,01,500/ during the A.Y.2013-14.
 /STCL amounting to Rs.2,30,01,500/- A.Y.2013 On
 perusal of the return of income, it is seen that the assessee has not
 offered the income related to the said transactions in his return of income
 for A.Y. 2013-14. 5. In view of above, I have reason to believe that income chargeable to tax
 2,30,01,500/ has escaped assessment for A. Y.
 to the extent of Rs. 2,30,01,500/- 2013-1414 in the case of the assessee within the meaning of section 147 of
 the I. T. Act, 1961. 6. Therefore notice us.148 of the I.T. Act, 1961 may be issued if statutory
 approval by the Jt. Commissioner of Income Tax, -25(1), 25(1), Mumbai is
 accorded." 5.1 Firstly, We find that Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of ACIT vs Rajesh Jhaveri stock brokers (p)) ltd (2007) 161 Taxman
316(SC) has assessment, there should
 as held that for reopening of the assessment
be a relevant material,
 material, on which a reasonable person could make
requisite belief that income escaped assessment. O
 On
 n perusal of the
above reasons recorded in the case of the assessee,, we find that
 th the
Assessing Officer has relied on tthe
 he information supplied by the
Principal Director Income tax (investigation), Kolkatta, which was
 irector of Income-tax
gathered during searches and surveys conducted on various
persons, who were engaged in providing accommodation entries of
 term capital gain to beneficiaries and providing short-term
long-term short
capital loss to exit providers. The report sent by the investigation
wing has referred to inquiries conducted on various operators who
introduced unaccounted cash of beneficiaries in their accounts
through a layer of transactions and utilised the said cash for
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 19 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 purchase of shares at manipulated price and ultimately transferring
the payment back to the beneficiaries in the guise of sale proceeds
of shares. The assessee is one of the beneficiaries
 eneficiaries of the
transactions of shares of 'Essar(India)
 'Essar( Ltd' and therefore in our
 irector of Income-tax
opinion the information supplied by the Director
(investigation) is relevant material for reopening of the case of the
assessee. The information of the large
 large scale rigging and
manipulation
 ation of shares and admission by the various operators
before the investigation wing that they were engaged in providing
 long-term capital gain is a material for a
accommodation entries of long
reasonable person to believe that income escaped assessment. assessment In
such circumstances, the contention of the learned counsel of the
assessee that there is no tangible material linked with assessee,
 assessee is
rejected. Secondly,, regarding
 regarding the contention that Assessing Officer
has not carried out any investigation
 investigation prior to record reasons and
issue of notice
 otice under section 148 of the Act
 Act is concerned, we are of
 of the section 148A of the Act
the opinion that prior to introduction of A
with effect from 1/4/2021, the Assessing Officer was not
 the
authorised to carry out any enquiry, before issue of notice under
 Act and therefore he was supposed to record section 148 of the Act
reasons on the basis of material available before him only. In the
case of Anwar Mohammad Shaikh (supra), reopening notice was
issued on the basis of high value suspicious transactions with
 high-value
fictitious profit based on the income tax department business
application available in their database, which the Hon'ble High
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 20 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 Court held that was on the basis of the pure suspicion that the
petitioner had entered into the fictitious transactions and without
carrying out any further investigation or an independent
assessment connecting the petitioner to the particular transaction
specified in the information. But in the case in hand, the
assessment has been reopened on the basis of extensive
investigation Director of Income-tax
 vestigation carried out by the Principal Director Income
(investigation) having connection with the transaction carried out
 relied on the decision of
by the assessee. The learned CIT(A) has relied
Hon'ble High Court of Rajasthan in the case of Jawari lal Lunia (supra), wherein the assessment was reopened in similar
 above, we do not find any infirmity in the
circumstances. In view of above,
order of the Ld. CIT(A) and accordingly we uphold
 uphold the finding of the
Ld. CIT(A) on the issue in dispute. The ground No. one of the appeal
of the assessee is accordingly rejected. 6. os. 2 to 7 of the appeal are related to merit of the
 The ground nos. addition
 n made under section 68 of the Act
 Act amounting to
₹2,30,01,500 and addition made under section 69C
 69C amounting to
₹5,75,037/-.. The learned counsel submitted that assessee has
 9C of the Act by
discharged its onus under section 68 and section 69C
way of filing documents like source of investment made, contract
note for purchase of investment and sale of investment, bank
statement reflecting payment and receipt of sale proceeds of
investment, 'D-mat' account to prove delivery and control of shares,
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 21 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 ledger copy of share
 are broker account etc. The
 The learned Counsel
further
 ther submitted that addition made under section 68 of the Act
 addition A
for long-term
 term capital gain on sale of shares of Essar(India)
 Essar( Ltd has
 Coordinate bench of Bombay Tribunal in the
been deleted by the Coordinate
case of Dheeraj Babulal Shah in ITA No. 4092/Mum/2019. He
 4092/Mum/2019. further relied on (i) the decision
 decision of coordinate bench of the Tribunal
 T
in the case of Jagmohan Agrawal in ITA No. 604/KOL/2018 , (ii)
decision of Hon'ble Bombay High Court in the case of Shyam R
Pawar reported in (2015) 54 taxmann.com 108 (Bombay) and (iii)
 (iii
decision Tribunal in the case of Mrs Pallavi
 ecision of coordinate bench of Tribunal
Mayur Gandhi in ITA No. 2251/Mum/2022. 7. The ld DR on the other hand relied on the order of lower
authorities. 8. We have heard rival submissions and perused
 peruse relevant
material on record. In the instant case, the issue in dispute involved
before us is whether the assessee has abused the provisions of section 10(38) of the Act. The
 he section 10(38) of the Act has been
introduced with effect from 1/4/2015, where in capital gain arising
 year i.e. long term
from sale of shares held for more than one year
capital asset,, on recognised stock exchange, were exempted from
tax,, but now this section has been amended and the exemption
benefit has been withdrawn by way of proviso inserted through
 t, 2018 with effect from 1/04/2019. Under the relevant Finance Act ,
period for availing benefit of tax exemption on sale of shares u/s
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 22 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 10(38) of the Act, the assessee was required to sale shares on
platform of recognised stock exchange by way of paying security
transaction tax (STT). But the condition of online transaction was
mandatory for sale and not mandatory while purchase of shares. It
is in this background, few unscrupulous tax payer, purchased the
shares through offline mode or other than through stock ex
 exchange
though some operators, who artificially rigged up the prices of those
shares and after mandatory period of one year of long term capital
 Act sold those shares at high prices on stock
gain u/s 10(38) of the Act,
 arranged by the operators were
exchange, for which a set of persons arranged
available for purchase online. online The term 'Penny stocks' is prevalent
in global security market or western market,, which refers to
shares of small public companies that trade for less than one dollar
per share,, which further revised to include shares having value
upto 5 dollars. The Cambridge business dictionary has defined the
penny stock as a share with a very low value because it
 risk investment, for example in a company that
is considered a high-risk
is small, little known,
 known or not very successful. The Hon'ble High
Court of Calcutta in the case of Swati bajaj (supra) in para 100
has observed that 'Penny'
 ' stocks are shares that trade at a very
low price, have very low market capitalization,, are mostly illiquid,
and are usually listed on a smaller exchange. Penny stocks in the
Indian stock market can have prices below Rs 10/
 10/- or sometimes
even upto Rs. 20/-.. Those stocks are very speculative in nature and
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 23 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 are considered highly risky because of lack of liquidity, smaller
number of shareholders, and limited disclosure of information. information

8.1 The investigation carried out by the Investigation wing of
Income-tax
 tax Department, Kolkatta has referred to large-scale
 beneficiaries, where shares having very small value
involvement of beneficiaries
were picked up by the operators, for providing benefit or say abuse
of section 10(38) , commonly known as long term capital gain on
'penny' stock transactions. In background of above facts of the case,
we find that the assessee has also shown to have purchased
45,000/- shares of Essar (India) ltd on 7/05/2011 at a price of Rs.
50 per share through preferential allotment against paymen
 payment of Rs. 22,50,000/- . The shares were than spilt from Rs. 10 per share to
Rs. 1.00 per share and 4,50,000/- account of the assessee. The assessee then sold the shares on
various dates as under: broker's But
 ut those documents are
not crucial for determination for abuse of section 10(38) of the Act.
What is crucial is establishing genuineness of the transaction of
purchase of shares in question. In support thereof the assessee filed
copy bank statement of HDFC bank statement through which
payment of ₹22,60,000/
 60,000/- was made to Essar
 Essar(India)ltd on
07/05/2011. On perusal of bank statement available on paperbook
 44, we find that there is a credit of ₹ 22, 50,000/- page-44, 50,000/ on
 ust two days before payment for purchase of
05/05/2011 i.e. just
shares.. On paper book page 45, the assessee has filed a copy of
application for preferential allotment to the Company namely Essar
(India) ltd but in said application payment details are not
mentioned. Further the assessee has filed a copy of allotment of
shares in preferential issue by dated 26/05/2011. Regarding the
person who advised for purchase of the shares, the assessee in a
statement recorded before the Assessing Officer submitted that he
came to know the shares through his brother. The relevant
statement, available on paperbook page 81, is reproduced as under: analysis of the company, wher
The purchase through preferential allotment is an off market
transactions and no prudent person shall enter into such a
transaction without knowing or related to the promoters of said
company. The assessee has also failed to establish its motive for
 failed
investment in such an unknown company without any financial
rationale. 8.5 Further the Assessing Officer , pointed out unusual price rise
in shares of the company for the period from Nov 2011 till 2015 and
thereafter share price fell to low , i.e the price which was prevalent
during purchase of the shares by assessee. The Assessing Officer
has also referred to the financial data of the company, which does
not show any performance vis vis the price rise of the shares of
 vis-à-vis
the company. The assessee also could not explain such a high
 high-rise
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 28 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 in the shares of the company without any corresponding financial
results. 8.6 In the light of investigation carried out by the investigation
wing of income tax Department Kolkata, it is found that at the time
of the sale of the shares at high prices, a particular set of persons,
which have been termed as exit provider, had only purchased the
shares for the purpose of acquiring capital loss for further
 the case of the assessee also the
adjustment against capital gain. In the
Assessing Officer issued notice
 notice under section 133(6) of the Act
 A to
the parties, who purchased shares from the assessee, but none of
the parties could be located at their addresses and the notices sent
returned un-served. The
 e non verification of share purchase parties
also goes to support the outcome of the investigation
 investigation, that the
purchaser were in collusion with the operators of the entire scam of
manipulation of shares of the company for benefiting by way of
capital loss and long term capital gain in the hand of
 d to facilitate long-term
seller of the shares. 8.7 Before us the learned counsel for the assessee relied on the
decision
 ion of the coordinate bench of Tribunal
 T in the case of Dheeraj
Babulal Shahin ITA No. 4272/Mum/2018 and 4092/Mum/2019
but in the said case the assessee was one of the promoter of M/s
 ar (India) Ltd, and therefore the transaction of purchase of the
Essar
shares, not held to be doubtful or no genuine.. But in the instant
 e through preferential allotment has not been
case the purchase
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 29 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 established to be genuine one. In the case of PCIT Vs Ziauddin A
siddique in ITA No. 2012 of 2017, decided by the Hon'ble Bombay
High Court, the purchase of shares was on platform of stock
exchange through recognized
 reco stockbrokers, but in the instant case
 off line transactions of preferential
the purchase is through off-line
allotment directly by the company and not through stock exchange.
In the case of Shyam R Pawar (supra) also the purchase of the
shares was done through
 through online transactions, but in the instant
case purchase is obviously through off line transactions. In view of
 off-line
 decisions relied upon by the assessee
the distinguishable facts, the decision
are not applicable over the facts of the instant case. 8.9 The Hon'ble High
 High Court of Calcutta in the case of Swati bajaj
(supra) in para 99 observed that the department established the
artificial price rise of the shares by adopting manipulative practices
and consequently whatever resultant benefits which accrued
 accrue from
such manipulative practices were to be treated as tainted. The
Hon'ble High Court further observed that the assessee had
opportunity to prove that there was no manipulation at the other
end and whatever gains the assessee reaped was not tained,
however the assessee failed to prove or establish so, and therefore
the Assessing Officer was justified in coming to a conclusion that
so-called
 called explanation offered by the assessee was not to their
 prove the genuineness of
satisfaction and the assessee having not proved
the claim, the
 he creditworthiness of the companies in which they had
 Shanno
 Sh Mohammed Yusuf Warsi. 30 ITA No. 1306/M/2023 invested and the identity of the person to whom the transactions
are done, have to necessarily fail. 8.10 In view of aforesaid discussion, respectfully following the
finding of the Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of Swati bajaj
(supra), we uphold the finding of the Ld. CIT(A) on the issue in
dispute. The grounds raised by the assessee on the merit of the
addition are therefore dismissed. 9. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced /02/2024. nounced in the open Court on 26/02/2024.