SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My bank has opened a demat account without my consent or knowledge. Customer services are not responding. I think I'm a victim of a fraud. Please help, people of r/India
DATE: 2021-07-01
SCORE: 164
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/obet91/my_bank_has_opened_a_demat_account_without_my/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi fellas. I hardly ever post and if this is the wrong place to do this, please forgive me. I don't know where else to go. 

I opened a salary account with Kotak Mahindra last year in February when I joined my office. From around April-May, I started receiving weird texts from Kotak Securities related to my fund balance !?! It was in negative (around -100 at that time) but as I didn't apply for anything, I chose to ignore it. (Ik it's stupid af) 

I received a text once a month or so, sometimes an email too. The negative amount kept increasing each month little by little. 

Long story short, in present day I saw that it's standing at -1100 right now. I finally wondered what's this about and asked my friend. They said that this text is related to my demat account. But I never opened one, and I'm 110% sure. 

I gave customer services a call and they said I'll have to talk to Kotak Securities. I called Kotak Securities and the waiting queue was too long and I kept getting cut off after half an hour or so. 

Frustrated, I tried their WhatsApp chat helpline. But unfortunately, every advisor I was connected to was so untrained that they didn't understand one thing I was saying. All that I said was "I don't use a Kotak Securities account, I don't deal in stock brokerage. I have never used a demat account. But I keep getting texts and emails about an outstanding balance of around rs -1100"

I talked to 6 different advisors and each of them acted completely oblivious, didn't know about anything. I called the helpline again and finally got through to someone, but they told me that they don't open a demat account without my consent and told me to pay up. I refused and they redirected me to email !!

I'm not concerned about 1100 rupees. It's a marginal amount. What I'm concerned is that a multi billion dollar bank is acting fraudulently, opening demat accounts without a heads-up/permission and their customer service is so lackluster that you can't virtually get any help. 

This isn't the first time this has happened. I called the bank back in January this year to tell them to stop calling my number with offers related to credit card and whatnot. Guess what happened ? The advisor set up a 10,000 fixed deposit without my permission. This is so comical I'm at a breaking point right now. 

Any help will be appreciated, thank you :(