1. This is a petition for pre-arrest bail filed by the petitioner with

regard to a case arising out of FIR No.163 dated 20.08.2025 under Sections

318(4), 319(2), 336(3), 338, 340(2) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, Section

42(3)(E) Telecommunication Act and Sections 66-D , 67-A IT Act 2000, Police

Station Cyber Crime, District Nuh. 2. Briefly stating the facts emerging from record are that the FIR of

this case came into being in the backdrop of following facts:- 3. It is the case of the prosecution that on enquiry, the above-said

persons disclosed that by using fake sim cards he used to create fake whatsapp

account in the name of girls and placed beautiful photographs as status on the

above-mentioned whatsapp number and then trap common man and indulge

them in conversation, record their video with the use of certain apps and

thereafter, by editing the above-mentioned videos and photographs, used to

blackmail them and extort money. 4. It is the case of the prosecution that in view of above-mentioned

complaint, formal FIR of this case was lodged and the investigation taken up.

According to prosecution during the course of investigation it was revealed by

the accused Shahrukh that the petitioner was also part of above-mentioned

racket, who used to act as a police official and thereby put pressure upon the

victim to pay money to Shahrukh. 5. Heard. 6. It has been contended on behalf of petitioner that the petitioner is

innocent, having no nexus, whatsoever, with the commission of crime, and that

neither any money was ever paid to the petitioner nor any of his gazette was

used for the commission of offence nor he had made any call to the victim and

 2 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 22:38:44 ::: CRM-M-9276-2026 3 thus the implication of petitioner in the present case is merely on the basis of

disclosure statement of co-accused is illegal. 7. The learned State counsel has controverted the above-mentioned

arguments. According to learned State counsel in the present case the

investigation is still at initial stage and that the name of the petitioner has

cropped up during the course of investigation, when his co-accused Shahrukh

suffered a disclosure statement. As per learned State counel to fix the role of

the petitioner, if any, in the commission of offence the extent of his

contribution in the commission of offence and also to recover the uniform of

police official, which he might have used, his custodial interrogation is

necessary. 8. The record has been perused carefully. 9. At the very out-set it is relevant to mention here that the petitioner

is seeking the benefit of anticipatory bail and with regard to anticipatory bail

the principles of law have been laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of 'Srikant Upadhyay v. State of Bihar 2024 SCC OnLine SC 282', are

relevent. It has been observed in the above-mentioned case that power to grant

anticipatory bail is extraordinary power, and that irrespective of the fact that in

a number of cases, it has been held that bail is a rule, it cannot; by any stretch

of imagination, be said that anticipatory bail is a rule. 10. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the abovementioned case has

further observed that rule of anticipatory bail is a question of judicial discretion

depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. According to

Hon'ble Apex Court, when called upon to exercise the abovesaid power the

 3 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 22:38:44 ::: CRM-M-9276-2026 4 Court concerned has to be very cautious, as the grant of interim protection to

the accused in serious cases may lead to miscarriage of justice and may

hamper the investigation. 11. Similarly, in the case of 'Nikita Jagganath Shetty alias Nikita

Vishwajeet Jadhav v. The State of Maharashtra and Another Special Leave

Petition (Criminal) No. 10255 of 2024, decided on 21.07.2024', the Hon'ble

Supreme Court of India has held that anticipatory bail is an exceptional remedy

and it ought not be granted in a routine manner. As per the Hon'ble Supreme

Court, there must exist strong reasons for extending indulgence of this

extraordinary remedy to a person accused of grave offence. 12. In the case of 'Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia etc. v. State of Punjab 1980

SCC (2) 565', the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held that:- 4 of 5 ::: Downloaded on - 19-02-2026 22:38:44 ::: CRM-M-9276-2026 5 13. In the light of above-mentioned principles of law if the factual

matrix of the present case is analyzed, it transpires that at this stage when the

Investigating Agency is still collecting evidence, if the opportunity of custodial

interrogation of the petitioner is denied to the Investigating Agency it may lead

to a situation that the investigation of this case may not take a proper headway

and would suffer a very serious set back. Otherwise also the right of custodial

interrogation of an accused/suspect is one of the valuable right of Investigating

Agency and in ordinary course the Investigating Agency should not be

deprived of this right. 14. In view of above-mentioned observations and the nature of an

offence committed in the present case, wherein the victim usually don't come

out to lodge a complaint, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is of utmost

importance. Thus, it is hereby held that the petitioner is not entitled for

anticipatory bail and the present petition for anticipatory bail, being devoid of

merits, deserves dismissal. The same is hereby dismissed, accordingly.