% 21.12.2020
 The hearing has been conducted through video conferencing. 1. Vide order dated 23.09.2020, this Court directed the Commissioner of
Police, Delhi to personally look into the matter and see whether the
complainant herein and her friend Jasmin are indulged in any other such
type of cases, if so, appropriate action may be taken against the culprits. In
addition to above, the Commissioner shall call reports from all the police
stations of such cases as present one and file a report to this effect within
four weeks from today. It was further directed that if the Commissioner of
Police feels similar type of incident had happened in Delhi in the year 2020,
he shall issue standing orders to all the concerned Police Stations that action BAIL APPLN. 2813/2020 Page 1 of 3 may be taken as per law, however, without harassing such person/alleged
accused therein. 2. Reports regarding involvement of Nisha Gulia complainant in case
FIR No. 569/2020 registered at Police Station Mehrauli and her friend
Jasmine @ Bhawna Thakur were obtained and found FIR No. 23/2016 had
been registered at Police Station Safdarjung Enclave wherein Jasmin @
Bhavna Thakur was found to be the complainant. 3. A report was called from all DCPs District & Units regarding cases of
rape/sexual harassments registered by the complainant herein against one or
several persons where during investigation it has emerged that the accused
person were lured sexually for extortion of money. 4. As per the report received from DCP, Rohini District, details of cases
with similar modus operandi were found to be registered by Monika @
Mona and Nisha are complainants in 3 FIRs. 5. In compliance of para 19 of order dated 23.09.2020 a circular has also
been issued to all police station and units of Delhi Police with the
instructions that in all such type of cases of Honey Trapping, action may be
taken as per law without harassing the accused persons which is reproduced
as under:- In view of above, investigating officers are hereby
 directed to take utmost care while investigating such
 cases without harassing the accused persons and proceed
 further as per law. During investigation, in case any
 doubt arises, the 10 must check credentials of the
 complainant/s. .Investigating Officer shall also enquire
 about other cases with similar Modus Operandi,
 registered by the complainant at other Police Stations, if
 any and if after investigation, the allegations, leveled in
 the complaint are found to be mischievous and
 fabricated, suitable legal action may be taken in the
 matter. Meticulous compliance of above directions may be
 ensured. This issues with the approval of Commissioner
 of Police, Delhi." 6. As the present case is concerned, Mr. Rajesh, DEO, DCP who is
present in person through VC has assured this Court that they shall make all
endeavour to investigate the present case maximum within three months
from today. 7. In view of above, no further order is required to be passed. 8. The order be uploaded on the website forthwith. SURESH KUMAR KAIT, J
DECEMBER 21, 2020/ms BAIL APPLN. 2813/2020 Page 3 of 3