The petitioners are arrayed as accused 1 and 2 in Crime

 No.316 of 2022 of St.Thomas Mount Police Station, Pallavaram, Chennai,

 Tamil Nadu alleging commission of offences punishable under Section

 294(b) and 506(i) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 67A of the

 IT Act, 2000. The allegation in the above crime as per the First Information

 Statement given by Goutham Rajendran, who is allegedly a resident of

 Chennai is that the 1st petitioner pretended to be in love with him and got

 him to perform various tasks for which he has spent money and thereafter

 left without fulfilling her promise to marry him. It is alleged that petitioners

 are now threatening/attempting to kill him and his family. 2. The case of the petitioner is that the 1 st petitioner studied at

 St.Mary's College, Chennai during 2015 and she was actively involved in

 various social and cultural activities and she was an event co-ordinator for

 a cultural programme in the college and thereupon she met one

 Mr.Goutham and had given her mobile number as she was the co-

 ordinator for the event and thereafter the said Goutham had maintained

 acquaintance with her. In 2019 he professed his love to the 1 st petitioner

 and started harassing the pestering her to marry and proceeded to Bail Appl. No.4155/2022 3/6 BA No.4155 of 2022 2 emotionally blackmail the 1st petitioner saying that he will commit suicide

 along with his parents if the 1st petitioner does not marry him. 1st petitioner

 left Chennai in 2019 and thereafter she has not met Goutham since then.

 Thereafter, he has been pestering, harassing and stalking the 1st petitioner

 on her social media and constantly trying to get in touch with her over

 phone and e-mail. Tired of the relentless hounding of the said Goutham,

 petitioner had in fact filed Crime No.2 of 2021 before the Cyber Crime

 Police Station, Ernakulam Rural on 17.03.2021 and arrest warrant was

 issued to the said Goutham. It is while so, the present crime has been

 registered by the St.Thomas Mount Police Station, Pallavaram, Chennai,

 Tamil Nadu and 2nd petitioner was issued a summons to appear and

 subject to interrogation in the said crime on 22.03.2022 and 28.03.2022. It

 is the case of the petitioners that thereafter Annexure-A4 series of

 summons were issued to the 2nd petitioner to appear in the present crime

 in which non-bailable offences were also included and therefore the

 petitioners apprehend arrest in connection with the said crime. Petitioner

 submit that this crime is registered only as a counterblast against the

 crime filed by the 1st petitioner as Crime No.2 of 2021 of Cyber Crime

 Police Station, Ernakulam. 3. Heard the learned Public Prosecutor also. Learned Public

 Prosecutor also did not seriously oppose the request of the petitioners for

 grant of interim bail. BA No.4155 of 2022 3 4. When the matter was taken up for consideration today,

 learned counsel for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners are

 prepared to move before the jurisdictional High Court or the Sessions

 Court concerned in Tamil Nadu and in the meanwhile they apprehend that

 they may be taken into custody in connection with the abovesaid crime.

 Therefore, they want some more time to approach the court in Tamil Nadu

 seeking bail since they have to collect certain documents to substantiate

 their case. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and

 considering the nature of the allegations, I feel that the petitioners are

 entitled for interim bail and therefore the following orders are issued. If the petitioners are arrested within this State in connection

 with Crime No.316 of 2022 of St.Thomas Mount Police Station, Chennai,

 Tamil Nadu, they shall be released on bail subject to the following

 conditions: This interim order will be in force for a period of three months from

 today. It is also made clear that this interim order is issued on an Bail Appl. No.4155/2022 5/6 BA No.4155 of 2022 4 undertaking by the petitioners that they will take steps to approach the

 High Court of Madras or the jurisdictional Sessions Court in the State of

 Tamil Nadu seeking anticipatory bail on or before the expiry of this interim

 order. Sd/-