Telangana buses installed a system that didn’t accept Aadhaar number, were grounded

There glitches in the online services, and the system didn’t accept the Aadhaar number. “…the RTC Greater Hyderabad Zone executive director A Purushotham said, with Aadhaar made mandatory there should be owner of the vehicle and he should have an Aadhaar card.” More at The Hans India .

Biometric authentication fails for 9 year old with fluorosis

The boy has deformity, and biometric devices are unable to record his fingerprints for ID proof. His school was asking for an Aadhaar card. More at The Times of India .

Aadhaar-linked ID cards will be issued for Pushkaram festival

100,000 Aadhaar linked ID cards will be issued for the 12-day-long Pushkarams, beginning August 12. Around 35 million pilgrims are expected. More at The Hindu .

Delhi government will link accounts of pensioners to Aadhaar

The government is targeting linking 600,000 accounts of pensioers to the Aadhaar database. More at The Asian Age .

The Additioanl DG of UIDAI writes on the Multiple Facets of Aadhaar

Says that “The future of it lies in the speed with which the services and schemes are linked with Aadhaar in as little time as possible. Every activity of business, enterprise or Government has a potential of being linked with Aadhaar-based system…”, mentions linking it to voting and mobile phones, and “Indians having an identity proving to be more than what they have in the past, Aadhaar needs to be promoted across the country through education campaign in schools and in news media in a massive way what it is done today.” More at Daily Pioneer .

Belgavi Tehsildar has been ordered to file a police complaint against Aadhar Centers for collecting money

Centers were charging up to “Rs. 200 for updating one information and Rs. 300 for two updates,” of the Aadhaar card info, without receipt. A person took a video and shared it with the media. More at The Hindu .

People stopped receiving LPG subsidy

‘”Our job is to collect the details of the customers and give them LPG cylinders, be it Aadhar or KYC. But it so turns out that people are being penalised for government intent to keep a tab on who is owning an LPG connection in the country,” said a gas agency owner in Sanjaynagar.’ More at The Times of India .

Legaldesk has launched an Aadhaar based e-signature

A document has to be uploaded to www.eSignDesk.com, and signed with UIDAI eSign and eKYC, via an OTP to the registered mobile number. More at Techradar .

8 Jharkhand districts go paperless with Aadhaar

The state’s food and public distribution (FPD) department will launch e-PDS and supply-chain management system in Ranchi, Khunti, Hazaribag, Chatra, Jamtara, Garhwa and Seraikela from August 1. More at Hindustan Times .

Fake Aadhaar cards were being made in Chembur

“The officials then found Pandit and a search of his pan shop revealed that he had stored hundreds of Aadhaar and PAN card application forms.” An aadhaar card center employee was being paid Rs 100 per document for processing. The scam went on for twi years. More at The Asian Age .

UIDAI CEO is identifying gaps in aadhaar enrollment

Trying to fill gaps in the enrollment of people in the age groups 0-5 years, 5-18 years and above 60 years of age. More at The Indian Express .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event