The Government of India should frame online gaming guidelines at the national level which can be followed by the states, according to a letter written by IndiaTech to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), as seen by MediaNama. IndiaTech is an industry association representing India’s consumer internet startups, unicorns, and investors, according to its website. Some of its notable members include Ola, MakeMyTrip, Dream11, and MPL.

The association affirmed that certain online games have an element of skill despite the involvement of money, distinguishing them from betting and gambling.

“The mere involvement of money does not make any game into an addictive or gambling genre,” the letter addressed to IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw read.

It is essential to regulate the sector as online gaming has grown tremendously in the last two years and contributes significantly in terms of employment, FDI, GST/ taxes, etc. including support to ancillary industries like marketing.

The letter defined OSCGS as games/sports that are always in a multi-player format using the internet for the purpose of entertainment. They are based on skills predominantly and casual in nature, it said.

The association called for the government to refer to the following principles while drafting legislation for online gaming:

The letter also contained a proposal to draft the ‘Code for Responsible Gaming’ in a collaboration between industry and government. IndiaTech wrote that a ban is never a viable solution and instead, principles of responsible gaming must be standardised in a document to support compliance to practical and legitimate legislative demands.

The code should explore:

The recommendations by IndiaTech come at a time when there has been renewed focus on the popularity of online gaming among users and its addictive nature.

Recently, the Indian government recommended parents use spyware and internet gateway applications that can monitor content on the internet in a bid to curb excessive online gaming, according to an advisory released by the Ministry of Education .

The Karnataka government also amended the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, outlawing betting and gambling even when games of skill are concerned, triggering legal challenges in the Karnataka High Court. The state government argued in Court that its new law on online gaming does not ban online “games of chance or skill” but steers people away from gambling money on an uncertain event.

Also read:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama here and post your comment.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event