P.K.BHASIN, J: 2. The relevant facts as culled out from the pleadings and

evidence of the parties, documents on record, as well as the

submissions made before this Court by the counsel for the parties,

may first be noticed. The elder son of the respondents, who shall

hereinafter be referred to as 'the plaintiffs', got married to the

appellant, who shall hereinafter be referred to as 'the defendant', on

4th July 1995. The 'doli' of the defendant after her marriage was

brought to the house of Gambhirs in Rohini where at that time the

plaintiffs and their two unmarried sons were already living as a joint

family. As per the case of the plaintiffs from the day the defendant

got married to their son Anil Gambhir they started living in one room RFA 179/2008 Page 2 of 40 set on the first floor portion and they themselves were occupying the

one room set on the ground floor while their younger son after his

marriage living in the one room which was there on the second floor

with his wife. After some years of their marriage the relations

between the defendant and her in-laws including her husband

started getting strained and became so bad that the plaintiffs who

were living on the ground floor and their younger son and his wife

who had been occupying the second floor had to shift to Gurgaon.

Defendant's husband also left that house and started living separately

in some house in NOIDA leaving behind his wife and two children in

the Rohini house. According to the plaintiffs, the defendant had no

legal right to stay in the suit property which was their exclusive

property having been acquired from DDA by plaintiff no.1, Hari Chand

Gambhir from his own funds and constructed also from his own

money and the loan taken by him from his employer and that it was

only out of love for his wife that he had got her name also included in

the perpetual lease deed executed by DDA. It was further pleaded

that the defendant in their absence took possession of the ground RFA 179/2008 Page 3 of 40 floor and second floors also, taking advantage of their having shifted

to Gurgaon. Since the plaintiffs did not want their daughter-in-law to

stay any more in their house they served a notice dated 27/10/04

upon the defendant to vacate the suit property by 30/11/04 but she

did not do that. Hence, the suit was filed by the plaintiffs on 11/01/05

against the defendant for getting back the possession of the suit

property from her. Since her occupation of the entire suit property

was claimed to be unauthorised after she had failed to surrender the

possession, the plaintiffs also claimed mesne profits @ Rs.15,000/-

p.m. The plaint was valued for the purposes of court fees and

jurisdiction at Rs.12 lacs being the value of the suit property. 3. The suit was contested by the defendant. She claimed that the

suit had been filed by her in-laws to force her and their own grand-

children to live the life as destitutes and roofless. Regarding the claim

of the plaintiffs that they were the exclusive owners of the suit

property her stand was that the suit property belonged to an Hindu

Undivided Family(HUF) and her husband being one of the members RFA 179/2008 Page 4 of 40 of that HUF, she and her children had a right to reside in the

property in their occupation. That property in any case was alleged to

be her matrimonial home also and for that reason as well she could

not be asked to move out from there or to pay any money for residing

there. She denied the allegation that she had unauthorisedly

occupied the ground and second floors also. She claimed that the

ground floor had been locked by the plaintiffs themselves and as far

as second floor is concerned she stated that since entry to that floor

was through the first floor portion, she was going to the second floor

only to keep that portion clean. 4. In the replication the plaintiffs while reiterating their case set

out in the plaint pleaded that even the children born out of the

wedlock between their son, Anil Gambhir and the defendant had no

right to remain in the suit property. 5. The trial court framed the following issues for its decision:- RFA 179/2008 Page 5 of 40 acquired property of the plaintiffs and not an HUF property. For

arriving at this conclusion the learned trial Judge relied upon the

perpetual lease deed dated 19/12/89 in respect of the plot of land

over which the suit property was constructed. That lease deed,

Ex.PW-1/9, was in the joint names of the plaintiffs and it shows that

the plaintiffs had been given the land on perpetual lease for a sum of

Rs.7200/-. The Court also relied upon the admission made by the

defendant regarding the ownership of the plaintiffs in respect of the

suit property in a civil suit for injunction which she had filed before

the filing the present suit by the plaintiffs. That suit was by the

defendant against the plaintiffs, her husband Anil Gambhir, his

brother Ajay Gambhir and his wife Madhu for a decree of permanent

injunction restraining them from dispossessing her and her two

children from the first floor of the suit property and which suit came

to be compromised. The trial Court, however, has held that the

plaintiffs had not produced any evidence to show that the defendant

was in occupation of the other two floors as well and so passed a RFA 179/2008 Page 7 of 40 decree for mesne profits only @ Rs.3250/- p.m. for her occupation of

the first floor only from 01/12/04 till the delivery of possession of the

property to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have not challenged that

conclusion of the trial Court going against them. 7. I heard the arguments advanced by Shri Kirti Uppal, learned

counsel for the appellant and Shri Sanjeev Sindhwani, learned counsel

for the respondents, and during the course of hearing of the appeal

both of them also took me through the evidence adduced by the

parties during the trial of the suit, oral as well as documentary. 8. As far as issues no. 1 and 2 relating to the controversy

regarding the ownership of the suit property are concerned, Mr. Kirti

Uppal, learned counsel for the appellant, argued with vehemence

that the plaintiffs alongwith their two sons and their daughters-in-law

were all living together as a joint family in the suit property for years

and that showed that the suit property was joint family property and

so the defendant was not an unauthorised occupant of the first floor RFA 179/2008 Page 8 of 40 of the suit property. It was also contended that the trial Court had

wrongly come to the conclusion that the suit property belonged to

the plaintiffs exclusively and was not an HUF property. He also

argued at length to convince me that the appellant's occupation of

the property in her possession was protected even under The

Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act,2005 . 9. On the other hand Shri Sanjeev Sindhwani, learned counsel for

the respondents, while not disputing the fact that the plaintiffs

alongwith their two sons, two daughters-in-law and two grand-

children were living in the suit property as a joint family when there

were no disputes between the defendant and their son Anil Gambhir

but simply for that reason it could not be inferred that the suit

property was a joint family property. It was submitted that there was

no presumption that if members of a joint Hindu family reside

together in some property which stands in the name of one of the

family members would automatically become the joint family

property of each member of the joint family. Mr. Sindhwani also RFA 179/2008 Page 9 of 40 submitted that the plaintiff no.1 had sufficient funds of his own to

acquire the plot and for raising the construction also he had used his

own money and that although some loan was also taken by him from

his employer but that was repaid from his salary. Learned counsel

also contended that the burden to prove that the suit property was

joint family property lay on the defendant which she had failed to

discharge. It was also submitted that in order to shift the burden to

the plaintiffs to show that the suit property was their self acquired

property the defendant had to show that there was some joint family

nucleus with the aid of which the plot of land in question could be

purchased or construction thereon could be raised with that nucleus

but the defendant had miserably failed to establish that. Learned

counsel also submitted that the provisions of The Protection of

Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 could not be invoked in

the present proceedings since no such case was pleaded by the

appellant in her written statement and nor could she have done that

since at the time she had filed her written statement this Act had not

even been promulgated. It was also contended that if at all the RFA 179/2008 Page 10 of 40 defendant wanted the Court to take notice of that legislation as a

subsequent development taking place after the filing of the written

statement by her and before the disposal of the suit that could be

done only if there was necessary foundation laid in the written

statement by alleging facts therein which, according to her, entitled

her to get some benefit available under the said Act of 2005 but shes

did not lay any foundation in her written statement by seeking

necessary amendment in the written statement and so she cannot be

allowed to make any submissions based on the provisions of the said

Act. In support of this contention Mr. Sindhwani cited one judgment

of the Supreme Court in " Om Parkash Gupta vs Rambir B.Goyal ",

(2002)2 SCC 256. In any event, Mr. Sindhwani also contended, the

respondents' suit for possession of the suit property could not be

resisted by the defendant and rejected by the trial Court by invoking

any provision of the said Act since it has already been decided by the

Supreme Court in " S.R. Batra & Anr. vs. Smt. Taruna Batra ", AIR 2007

SC 1118 that a wife cannot claim any right of occupation in the

property owned by her in-laws as a "shared household" as defined in RFA 179/2008 Page 11 of 40 Section 2(s) of this Act of 2005 entitling her to live there as a matter

of right. 10. I have examined and analysed the evidence on the point of

ownership of the suit property and in my view the findings of the

learned trial Court to the effect that the plaintiffs have been able to

show that the suit property was their self-acquired property and that

the defendant has failed to show that it was a joint family property

cannot be sustained. As has been noticed already, it is not in dispute

that the plaintiffs and their two sons constituted a joint Hindu family

and that the suit property is registered in the joint names of the two

plaintiffs as lessees. In these circumstances it was rightly submitted

by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs that the burden rested on the

shoulders of the defendant to show to the contrary that despite the

perpetual lease deed being in the names of the plaintiffs the suit

property in fact belonged to the joint family of the plaintiffs and their

two sons. That is the legal position settled way back in the year 1947

by the Privy Council in " Appalaswami vs Suryanarayanamurti and RFA 179/2008 Page 12 of 40 others ", AIR 1947(34) Privy Council 189 which decision was

thereafter followed by the Supreme Court in many of its judgment on

the concept of Hindu Undivided Family and Joint Family Property

amongst Hindus. Those decisions of the Apex Court are reported as

AIR 1954 SC 379, AIR 1966 SC 411, AIR 1969 SC 1076 and AIR 1972 SC

2531. This is what the Privy Council in " Appalaswami v.

Suryanarayanamurti "(supra) had held:- 11. And as to the nature of evidence expected from the person

claiming some property to be joint family property the Supreme

Court in " Shrinivas Krishanarao Kango vs Narayan Devji Kango ", AIR

1954 SC 379 observed as under:- RFA 179/2008 Page 13 of 40 decided on 19/11/07. Mr. Sindhwani, however, did not dispute the

legal position that the Court can suo moto also invoke the provisions RFA 179/2008 Page 24 of 40 of Order 1 Rule 10 CPC if it is felt that a necessary party without

whom there can be no effective adjudication of the controversy

between the parties has not been impleaded and also that this power

can be invoked even by the appellate Court. While not disputing this

position the learned counsel, however, kept on maintaining that the

defendant's husband was not at all a necessary party. 19. As far as the defendant is concerned a reading of her written

statement would show that she is claiming the right to be in

occupation of the first floor through her husband only who was

already living there when he had brought her 'doli' there. The learned

trial Judge has also observed in the impugned judgment that: "Even

according to the plaintiffs she was not a tenant rather a permissive

user, being the wife of the son of the plaintiffs." For the defendant

the first floor of the suit property was her matrimonial home from

where the plaintiffs cannot evict her. For ousting her from there the

plaintiffs have to first oust their son who only had brought her there

and it is the plaintiffs' own case that they had permitted their son to RFA 179/2008 Page 25 of 40 live there with his wife. It is not the case of the plaintiffs that they

had terminated the arrangement whatsoever they had with their son

under which he was occupying their property with his family. It is also

not their case that they had asked their son to move out from their

house lock stock and barrel i.e. alongwith his cantankerous wife and

children. So, the plaintiffs cannot simply ask their daughter-in-law

alone to move out of their house. And if actually the plaintiffs have

revoked the permission/licence of their son to stay in their house

then they have to obtain a decree of possession against their son

because of his failure to surrender vacant possession of their property

in his occupation and only in that way they can get their son's family

also evicted. Unless the plaintiffs get a declaration against their own

son Anil Gambhir that he having failed to put them in possession of

their property by moving out of the first floor of their property

alongwith his family despite revocation of the permission which they

had given to him to stay on the first floor they were entitled to

get him and his family evicted through a decree of the Court

they cannot claim that the occupation of their daughter-in- RFA 179/2008 Page 26 of 40 law Kavita Gambhir was unauthorised. Now, whether the plaintiffs'

son was living there as a tenant or as a licencee or in any other

capacity could be known only if he had been impleaded in the suit by

the plaintiffs and in whatever capacity their son was permitted by

them to occupy the first floor the 'privity' was between them and

their son and not between them and their daughter-in-law. They

have, however, chosen not to implead him. In my view the

defendant's husband was certainly a necessary party and in fact the

suit should have been filed only against him and if an order of

eviction had been passed against him that would have bound his wife

also because she is not claiming any independent right. This position

was not disputed even by the learned counsel for the defendant

during the course of arguments. 20. In my view, non-impleadment of their son in this suit by the

plaintiffs is a fraud on the right of the defendant to stay in her

matrimonial home being played by her husband in collusion with his

parents. Learned counsel for the plaintiffs had submitted that the RFA 179/2008 Page 27 of 40 defendant's matrimonial home could be where her husband was

living and the suit property had ceased to be her matrimonial home

after her husband shifted to NOIDA. So, what was being suggested

was that the defendant could go to occupy the house in NOIDA where

her husband is staying. I do not agree with this submission. The

husband may have many places to reside, whether as a tenant or

licencee or in any other capacity and in each such place the wife also

gets the right to stay claiming that to be her matrimonial home so

long as their jural relationship as husband-wife subsists. It is also not

necessary that both husband-wife must be staying in a particular

house for it being labelled as the matrimonial home of the wife. In

this regard I may refer to the views of Bombay High Court in a

judgment which was cited by the counsel for the plaintiffs before me.

That judgment is reported as 2008( 5) Bom C R 149, " Shammi Nagpal

vs Sudhir Nagpal ". In that case one of the points under consideration

was as to what is meant by the expression 'matrimonial home' and it

was observed that " In other words, the 'matrimonial home' is the

domicile where persons live together actually or constructively, as RFA 179/2008 Page 28 of 40 man and wife." Now, in the present case if the plaintiffs had

impleaded their son Anil in this suit only then, as observed already

also, it could be known as to in what capacity he was staying on the

first floor of the suit property, whether as a tenant, licencee or in any

other capacity and whether that right to occupy the first floor was

subsisting or had stood determined. In his absence it cannot be

decided by the Court that his occupation was only permissive or as a

gratuitous licencee of his parents. The plaintiffs have also not pleaded

that they had revoked the permission given to their son to occupy the

first floor of their house. All these facts are required to be gone into

since if the plaintiffs' permission to their son to occupy the first floor,

if at all his possession was permissive, has not been revoked the first

floor would continue to be the defendant's matrimonial home. 21. The reason given by the learned counsel for the plaintiffs for

the non-impleadment of their son in this suit was that their son

having voluntarily left their property they were not obliged to obtain

any declaration against him that he was an unauthorised occupant RFA 179/2008 Page 29 of 40 when he actually was not no more in physical possession and no

decree of possession was required to be obtained against him. I,

however, do not find any substance in this submission also of the

learned counsel for the plaintiffs that since the husband of the

defendant had shifted to NOIDA before the filing of this suit he was

not required to be sued. I do not agree with this submission. As

noticed already, in the judgment of Bombay High Court relied upon

by the counsel for the plaintiffs it had been held that for a house to

be called a matrimonial home of the wife it is not necessary that the

possession of both husband and wife has to be actual. It can be

constructive also. Here, in the cross-examination of plaintiff no.1 he

had also admitted that after they all had moved out of the suit

property the defendant's son had lived with the defendant in the suit

property. No doubt he had also clarified that that was during the

pendency of conciliation proceedings before the Legal Aid Cell at

Patiala House Courts but that shows that the defendant's husband

was still treating the place where his wife was residing to be her

matrimonial home as otherwise he could have invited her to live RFA 179/2008 Page 30 of 40 with him in his house at NOIDA claiming the same to be her

matrimonial home. 22. In any case, even though the plaintiffs' son had shifted to

NOIDA before the filing of the present suit it cannot be said that he

had surrendered the possession of the property in his occupation to

his parents resulting in the cessation of that house as being the

matrimonial home of the defendant. He continued to be in

occupation thereof through his wife whom he had brought to that

house after marrying her and also through his children. He having not

done so the plaintiffs cannot claim that their son had surrendered the

property which he was occupying alongwith his family with their

permission as a gratuitous licencee. In this regard a useful reference

can be made to a judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case

of " B.P. Achala Anand vs S. Appi Reddy & Anr. ", (2005) 3 SCC 313.

There a case was instituted against the husband by his landlord for his

eviction from the tenanted premises. The tenant did not contest the

petition effectively and left the tenanted premises and settled RFA 179/2008 Page 31 of 40 somewhere else but left behind his wife in the tenanted premises

with whom his relations were strained. The landlord took the plea

that since his tenant had surrendered the tenanted premises his wife

had been left with no interest or right to remain in the premises.

While dealing with that plea of the landlord and finally rejecting the

same, the Supreme Court referred to some English decisions wherein

it was held that if a tenant leaves the tenanted premises and settles

somewhere else but leaves behind his wife, with whom his relations

were strained, to stay in the tenanted premises he would still be

considered to be in possession of the tenanted premises through his

wife. The relevant portions of the judgment of the Supreme Court

dealing with the rights of a Hindu wife to stay in her matrimonial

home even when the husband goes away to live separately are re-

produced below:- 15. In Old Gate Estates, Ltd. v. Alexander and Anr., [1949] 2 All
 E. R. 822: [1949] W. N. 431, a statutory tenant living with his
 wife in a flat which constituted the matrimonial home left the
 premises following a quarrel with his wife, and purported to
 surrender them to the landlords by agreement. His wife
 remained in occupation with the use of his furniture. On the
 wife's refusing to quit the premises, the husband gave her
 written notice revoking any authority which she might have
 from him to occupy the flat. In proceedings by the landlords
 against the tenant and his wife for possession, the court held
 that the tenant had not given up possession, as he remained in
 occupation through his wife and furniture,............................
 The reason is because the wife has a very special position in the
 matrimonial home.............He is not entitled to tell her to go
 without seeing that she has a proper place to
 go.................................... 16. Their Lordships referred to and applied the dictum of Lord
 Greene, M.R., in Brown v. Draper, [1944] 1 All E.R. 246: [1944]
 K. B. 309, where the facts were somewhat similar. A husband
 was the tenant of a house on a weekly tenancy. As in this case,
 he left the house in a dispute with his wife, and his wife and
 child remained in occupation of the house with the use of his
 furniture and he continued to pay rent. He received notice to
 quit from the landlord and he then stopped paying the rent, but
 he did not revoke his leave to the wife to reside in the house
 nor did he remove his furniture. Later, the landlord brought
 proceedings against the wife for trespass and at the hearing,
 the husband, who was not made a party to the proceedings,
 gave evidence that he had no interest in the house. It was held
 by the Court of Appeal that the husband was still in possession
 of the
 house...................................................................................... 17. Applying the law propounded in Brown v. Draper (supra)
 and in Old Gate Estates Ltd. v. Alexander and Anr. (supra), the
 Court of Appeal held in Middleton v. Baldock, [1950] 1 All
 England Law Reports 708: 66 T. L. R. (Pt. 1) 650, that where a
 husband had deserted his wife and the wife remained in the
 matrimonial home, she was lawfully there and the husband
 remained in occupation through her ............................... RFA 179/2008 Page 34 of 40 33. ......................... Having been deserted by the tenant-
 husband, she cannot be deprived of the roof over her head where
 the tenant has conveniently left her to face the peril of eviction
 attributable to default or neglect of himself. We are inclined to
 hold - and we do so - that a deserted wife continuing in
 occupation of the premises obtained on lease by her husband,
 and which was their matrimonial home, occupies a position akin
 to that of an heir of the tenant-husband if the right to residence
 of such wife has not come to an end. The tenant having lost
 interest in protecting his tenancy rights as available to him under
 the law, the same right would devolve upon and inhere in the
 wife so long as she continues in occupation of the premises. Her
 rights and obligations shall not be higher or larger than those of
 the tenant himself. A suitable amendment in the legislation is
 called for to that effect. And, so long as that is not done, we,
 responding to the demands of social and gender justice, need to
 mould the relief and do complete justice by exercising our
 jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution. We hasten to
 add that the purpose of our holding as above is to give the wife's
 right to residence a meaningful efficacy as dictated by the needs
 of the times; we do not intend nor do we propose the landlord's
 right to eviction against his tenant to be subordinated to wife's
 right to residence enforceable against her husband. Let both the
 rights co-exist so long as they can." (emphasis supplied) 23. This judgement of Supreme Court also supports the view which

I have already taken that it is not necessary that if the husband settles

down somewhere else after leaving the matrimonial home of his wife

that house where the wife is left behind would cease to be her

matrimonial home. So, unless the plaintiffs obtain a decree of

possession against their son they cannot get back the possession

from his wife and consequently it has to be held that this suit is liable RFA 179/2008 Page 35 of 40 to fail for non-joinder of a necessary party. It is well settled now that

the defect of non-joinder of a necessary party is fatal. 24. Since the trial Court's conclusion holding the defendant to be

an unauthorised occupant of the 1st floor of the suit property is not

being sustained the decree passed against the defendant holding her

liable to pay mesne profits for her continuing to occupy the 1st floor

also has to be set aside . I am also of the view that the decision of the

trial Court fixing the mesne profit @ Rs. 3250/- p.m. cannot be

upheld also for the reason that the same has been fixed without

holding an enquiry, as contemplated under Order XX Rule 12 CPC . As

far as grant of past and future mesne profits/damages for

unauthorised use and occupation of some immovable property in a

suit for possession and mesne profits is concerned, the same can be

granted to a plaintiff in the same suit as provided under Order XX

Rule 12 of the Code of Civil Procedure instead of requiring the

plaintiff to file a separate suit for that relief after getting the

declaration that he was entitled to get the same from the tenant of RFA 179/2008 Page 36 of 40 his property whose possession had become unauthorized. Rule 12 is

re-produced below:- 25. The question of grant of past and mesne profits in a suit for

possession of an immovable property came to be considered by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in " Gopalakrishna Pillai vs. Meenakshi

Ayal ", AIR 1967 SC 155, and this is what was observed by the

Supreme Court:- 26. From the foregoing, it is clear that as far as the grant of mesne

profits/damages for use and occupation for the period prior to the RFA 179/2008 Page 38 of 40 institution of a suit for possession is concerned, the Court may either

pass a decree for mesne profits/damages which have already accrued

prior to institution of the suit provided the plaintiff has brought on

record sufficient material to enable the Court to ascertain the

damages. And in case there is no sufficient material available with the

Court for calculating the mesne profits/damages the Court has the

discretion to direct an enquiry for that purpose and thereafter

depending upon the result of the enquiry final decree for mesne

profits/damages can be passed. As far as the grant of future mesne

profits is concerned, the only discretion available with the Court is to

direct an enquiry for fixing the amount of mesne profits/damages and

if no such enquiry is ordered the plaintiff is always at liberty to file an

independent suit only for mesne profits/damages. Therefore, the

finding of the trial Court holding the defendant liable to pay mesne

profits @ Rs. 3250/- p.m. without an enquiry is set aside. 27. As a result of the fore-going discussion and conclusions, this

appeal deserves to be allowed and is hereby allowed. Consequently, RFA 179/2008 Page 39 of 40 the judgment and decree dated 27th March, 2008 passed by the

Additional District Judge directing the appellant-defendant to vacate

the first floor of property No. 220, Pocket-7, Block-C, Sector-8, Rohini,

Delhi and to pay mesne profits @ Rs. 3250/- p.m. are set aside and

the suit of the respondents -plaintiffs stands dismissed. P.K.BHASIN,J

September 07, 2009
sh RFA 179/2008 Page 40 of 40