SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Jio adding a random unknown number to my account.
DATE: 2019-07-10
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/cb5i69/jio_adding_a_random_unknown_number_to_my_account/

--- POST TEXT ---

It happened on 9th July 2019.

 I lost one of my number linked to my account ( Aadhaar). So I went to nearby Jio outlet to get a new sim with same number. At first they asked for my aadhar card which I gave to them . One of the employee scanned it using their Jio app and said to me yeah your account has a Jio number linked to it now tell me which number you wanted to get a replacement. 
 So I gave them a number and got a new sim. I received an OTP on my secondary number and they said the new sim will be active in few hours. I paid ₹50 ( I guess it should be free) but anyhow I left the store as soon as new sim was handed to me.
 But on the same day evening I saw an notification on MyJio app on my phone. It said a new unknown number was added to my account ( this is not the one I got replacement). The notification said a new number was added " Choose another service to add" and showed 4 options ( Mobile ,jioFi, GigaFiber , JioLink) . This new number is added to my account ( Aadhar) without my consent and approval. I tried to reach Jio customer service using "Live chat" option in MyJio app which is useless because all I can see a chatbot giving me options to choose. Then I tried on twitter but didn't get any response.
Finally, called to service after a long conversation with IVR finally got a chance talk to a human.
 Then at first he(agent on phone) said he couldn't do anything from his side and advised me to visit the retailer. Then after some serious conversation and putting me on hold, he said that he will block new unknown number and asked me to confirm my aadhar details so I did. (This confirmed me that the new number has linked with my aadhar which is without my approval) . 
 If anyone have gone through this please let me know and I wanted to know if I can legally proceed and file a complaint on jio for misusing my personal information.
I posted this in r/RelianceJio but that sub seemed to be inactive.