1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under S.
 134 & 135 of Trademarks Act, 1999, Sec. 55 of the
 Copyright Act, 1957 for permanent injunction
 restraining infringement, passing off, delivery up and
 rendition of accounts etc., filed by plaintiff against the
 defendants. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala
 House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the
 case was received by this Court by way of transfer, on
 03-09-2022 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./NDD/
 PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022 of the then Ld. Principal
 District & Sessions Judge, New Delhi District, PHC and
 consequent upon the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in the case titled as 'Vishal Pipes Limited v. Bhavya
 Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD No.1/2022 & CM APPLs No.
 12-14/2022 dated 03-6-2022. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 3. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is that the
 plaintiff, which is stated to be a company organized and
 incorporated under the law of Unites States of America
 (USA), got instituted the present suit through its
 Constituted Attorney, who has been duly authorized by the
 plaintiff company to institute, sign, verify and pursue the
 present suit. It is stated that the plaintiff company is
 engaged in the business of manufacturing and distributing TM/62/2018 Page 2 of 36 -3- and sale of a wide range of women's lingerie, womenwear,
 and beauty products, fragrances, deodorants, make-up and
 other allied/ related products (hereinafter referred to as the
 'said goods and business') under the house mark
 VICTORI's SECRET. The plaintiff has given detailed
 history of the plaintiff company in Para no. 3 of the plaint
 wherein, inter alia, it is stated that Victoria's Secret was
 founded by Roy Raymond and his wife Gaye, in San
 Francisco, California on June,12, 1977. Mr. Raymond
 picked the name "Victoria" after Queen Victoria of the
 United Kingdom to associate with the refinement of the
 Victorian era and 'Secret' was what was hidden
 underneath the clothes. The 'angles' comes from his wife
 being in a sorority where their mascot was an angel. 4. It is further averred that since its bonafide adoption in
 1977, the plaintiff has been using the mark/label
 VICTORI'S SECRET and its formative marks/ labels,
 various stylized labels/word per se over long and
 continuous period of time as a trade mark as also as an
 essential part of its trade name (hereinafter referred to as
 the 'trade mark/ trade name') in relation to its said goods
 and business. Thus, it is claimed that since 1977, the
 plaintiff has been honestly and bonafide, continuously,
 commercially, openly and to the exclusion of others,
 uninterruptedly and in the course of trade and as proprietor
 thereof, using its said trade mark/ trade name as Trade
 Mark in relation to its said goods and business and is
 carrying on its said goods and business thereunder and has TM/62/2018 Page 3 of 36 -4- built up a valuable trade, goodwill and reputation
 thereunder and has acquired proprietary rights therein. 5. It is further stated that the plaintiff's said goods and
 business under the said trade mark/ trade name as also the
 goodwill and reputation achieved thereunder is global in
 character and extends into India as well. The plaintiff
 company has claimed that the said trademark(s) Victoria's
 Secret and its formative trademarks/ labels are duly
 registered under various classes in India under the
 provisions of Trade Mark Act, 1999 , which are stated to be
 valid and subsisting till date and the details thereof have
 been mentioned in Para no.7 of the plaint. 6. Further, the plaintiff company has also claimed that the
 artworks involved in plaintiff's said trade marks/ labels are
 original artistic works and the plaintiff is the owner and
 proprietor of the copyright therein within the meaning of Indian Copyright Act, 1957 . Further, it is stated that the
 plaintiff has been dealing with its art works/ copyright in
 the course of trade in relation to its said goods and
 business inter alia within the meaning of S. 14 of the
 Copyright Act, 1957. Further, it is stated that plaintiff's
 artistic work and Copyright are further protected in India
 by virtue of Berne Convention to which India is one of the
 signatories. 7. It is further stated that plaintiff's said trademarks/labels as
 well as the goods and business thereunder, have a very
 strong presence in India through shopping chains and TM/62/2018 Page 4 of 36 -5- online platforms. The plaintiff's reputation and goodwill in
 relation to its said goods & business existed in India from
 trans-border reputation as well as information thereon were
 available to Indians in India & Overseas. The Plaintiff's
 said goods under the said trademarks/labels are now freely
 and commercially available as already stated above. 8. Further, the said trade marks/labels have acquired
 distinctiveness in the market and trade and are identified
 with the plaintiff and the said goods and business of
 plaintiff, as exclusively originating from the plaintiff's
 source alone. The said goods and business of the plaintiff
 bearing the said trade mark/ label are highly demanded in
 the market on account of their standard quality and
 precision. Thus, it is stated that the said trade marks/labels
 of the plaintiff have become distinctive indicium of the
 plaintiff in relation to its said goods. 9. Further, it is the case of the plaintiff that plaintiff's goods
 and business under the said trade mark/ label have
 acquired tremendous goodwill and enviable reputation in
 the markets and the plaintiff has already built up a globally
 handsome and valuable trade thereunder and conducted
 handsome business thereunder running into Billions of
 Dollars worldwide. It is further the case of the plaintiff that
 the plaintiff has been regularly and continuously
 promoting its said goods and business under the said trade
 marks/ labels through extensive advertisements,
 publicities, promotions and marketing & marketing
 research and the Plaintiff has been spending enormous TM/62/2018 Page 5 of 36 -6- amounts of moneys, efforts, skills and time thereon. The
 Plaintiff has been doing so through various means and
 modes including through the visual, print and electronic
 media, in leading Newspapers, trade literature &
 magazines, over the television and internet, through word
 of mouth etc. and all of which have tremendous reach,
 availability and circulation world over including in India. 10. Further, on account of its good quality and standards of
 manufacturing and untiring efforts in advertising and
 marketing, the products of the plaintiff under the said trade
 marks/labels have acquired enviable reputation and
 goodwill in the international markets including in India,
 where in addition to the aforesaid, the plaintiff also enjoys
 trans-border reputation and user as extending into India. It
 is claimed that trademark/ labels are well known
 trademarks within the meaning of S. 2(1)(zg) of the Act. 11. Hence, it is claimed that in view of the Plaintiff's
 proprietary rights both under statutory and common law in
 its said trademarks, its goodwill & reputation, and its
 copyrights, the Plaintiff has the exclusive right to the use
 thereof and nobody can be permitted to use the same or
 any other deceptively similar trademark/label in any
 manner whatsoever in relation to any specification of
 goods without the leave and license of the Plaintiff. 12. It is alleged that the Defendant No.1 imported a
 consignment of counterfeit products of different brands,
 vide Bill of Entry No.5127859 dated 08.02.2018 at the TM/62/2018 Page 6 of 36 -7- Chennai Port, which was intercepted and seized by the
 Defendant No.2, as the said consignment was found to be
 in violation of the Intellectual Property Rights (Imported
 Goods) Enforcement Rules, 2007 framed under the Customs Act, 1962 , vide Notification no.48/2007 dated
 08.05.2007. It is stated that Defendant nos.2 & 3 are
 relevant custom offices and are authority of Indian
 Government who are responsible for collecting custom
 duties and are made to regulate the export and import of
 the goods into and out of the country. 13. It is stated that the Defendant No.2 informed the Plaintiff's
 attorneys vide e-mail dated 12/03/2018 that they have
 detained impugned goods and asked the attorney to join
 the examination /inspection of goods. Their details are as
 follows- 14. It is further stated that vide letter dated 12/03/2018, the
 Plaintiff's said attorney through its counsels joined the said
 proceedings and requested for carrying out inspection and
 asked for details. After inspection, the defendant no.2 was
 informed that the seized/detained goods are not original
 vide letter dated 02/04/2018. It is stated that the defendant
 no.2 is headed by the defendant no.3. 15. It is stated that said consignment contains 4180 pieces of
 huge quantities of counterfeit products bearing the TM/62/2018 Page 7 of 36 -8- Plaintiff's impugned trademarks VICTORIA'S SECRET
 and its formative trademarks/labels for deodorants,
 fragrances, perfumes (hereinafter referred to as the
 "impugned goods and business"). 16. Thus, it is alleged that defendant no.1 has dishonestly and
 malafidely adopted and started using impugned trade mark
 VICTORIA'S SECRET and its formative
 trademarks/labels which are visually, structurally identical
 and/or deceptively and confusingly similar to the
 registered trademark of the plaintiff VICTORIA'S
 SECRET and its formative trademarks/labels, thereby
 causing confusion and deception amongst the unwary
 purchasing public and traders by making them believe that
 the origin of those goods is the plaintiff company. It has
 been averred that by doing so, the defendant no.1 is not
 only damaging the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff
 company by passing off its substandard products as that of
 the plaintiff company but is also causing financial loss to
 the plaintiff company by reaping unfair advantage of the
 repute and distinctive character of the trademarks of the
 plaintiff company. 17. On these grounds, the plaintiff has filed the present suit
 against the defendant no.1 praying therein, inter alia, that
 decree of permanent injunction may be passed restraining
 the defendant no.1 and all others acting for and on its
 behalf from manufacturing, marketing, using, selling,
 soliciting, importing, exporting, displaying, distributing,
 advertising or in any manner using the impugned trade TM/62/2018 Page 8 of 36 -9- mark VICTORIA'S SECRET and its formative
 trademarks/labels VICTORIA'S SECRET PINK, PINK,
 VICTORIA'S SECRET BOMBSHELL ETC., which may
 be identical with and/ or deceptively similar to the
 plaintiff's said trade mark VICTORIA'S SECRET and its
 formative trademarks/labels VICTORIA'S SECRET
 PINK, PINK, VICTORIA'S SECRET BOMBSHELL
 ETC., in relation to similar goods, thereby infringing
 plaintiff's registered trademarks, copyright and passing off
 its products as that of the plaintiff. It was also prayed that
 defendant nos. 2 and 3 be also restrained from releasing
 and defendant no.1 from obtaining release of impugned
 goods under VICTORIA'S SECRET [Bill of Entry
 No.5127859 dated 08-02-2018], which were lying with
 defendant nos. 2 and 3 and direction is sought to be issued
 to defendant nos. 2 and 3 to absolutely confiscate the
 impugned counterfeit goods, with liberty to the plaintiff to
 destroy the said impugned goods in accordance with law. 18. The suit was accompanied with application Order XXXIX
 Rule 1 & 2 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction.
 After hearing the counsel of plaintiff, the said application
 was allowed, vide order dated 01-06-2018 passed by Ld.
 Predecessor of the Court, thereby granting an ex parte ad
 interim injunction in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant no.1 thereby restraining the defendant no.1 from
 using the impugned trademark. 19. Summons of the suit and notice of accompanying
 applications were issued to the defendants in terms of TM/62/2018 Page 9 of 36 -10- relevant orders. The defendant nos. 2 and 3 put appearance
 through counsel, however, their right to file written
 statement was struck off vide order dated 15-12-2018
 passed by Ld. Predecessor of this Court after observing
 that no written statement had been filed by said defendants
 till date despite giving 30 days' time on the last date of
 hearing. However, subsequently, on an application moved
 on behalf of said two defendants, the delay was condoned
 and the written statement was allowed to be filed subject to
 cost of Rs.5000/- payable by the said defendants to the
 plaintiff, vide order dated 13-01-2020, passed by Ld.
 Predecessor of the Court. 20. It may be noted that the present case was received by this
 Court on 03-9-2022, as already noted above in Para No.2,
 and an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was
 moved on behalf of the plaintiff seeking amendment of
 the suit, thereby enhancing specified value to be above
 Rs.3 lacs, so as to bring the present suit within the ambit of
 the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , in view of the directions
 of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in case of Vishal Pipes
 Limited (supra). Since the defendant no.1 was still to be
 served, summons of the suit and notice of aforesaid
 application were directed to be issued to it for next date
 and remaining two defendants were directed to file reply
 thereto. 21. Since the defendant no.1 could not be served through
 ordinary mode, he was served by way of publication in
 newspapers (1) 'The Hindu' Chennai (English edition) and TM/62/2018 Page 10 of 36 -11- (2) 'The Hindu' Chennai (Tamil Edition) , both dated
 29-12-2022 in terms of order dated 23-11-2022 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court while disposing off the
 application moved on behalf of the plaintiff under Order V
 Rule 20 CPC for substituted mode of service upon
 defendant no.1. 22. The aforesaid amendment application was allowed vide
 order dated 06-3-2022 passed by Ld. Predecessor of this
 Court and defendants were directed to file written
 statement to the amended plaint within 30 days from the
 date of said order. However, the defendant nos. 2 and 3
 failed to file written statement to amended plaint either
 within 30 days or even within 120 days from date of
 allowing amendment application and direction to them to
 file written statement to the amended plaint, despite grant
 of sufficient time and thus, their right to file written
 statement to the amended plaint was closed in view of
 judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in case titled ' SCG
 Contracts India Pvt. Ltd. v. K. S. Chamankar Infrastructure
 Pvt. Ltd. & Ors ' reported as AIR 2019 SC 2691. 23. As regards defendant no.1, since none had been appearing
 on its behalf despite due service by way of publication in
 aforesaid newspapers, the defendant no.1 was proceeded
 against as ex parte vide order dated 13-7-2023, passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court. 24. In view of above, the position as emerges on record is
 that although, written statement was filed by the defendant TM/62/2018 Page 11 of 36 -12- nos. 2 and 3 to the original plaint, yet they failed to file
 written statement to the amended plaint in conformity with
 the provisions of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 .
 Further, defendant no.1 failed to file written statement
 either to the original plaint or to the amended plaint during
 the course of trial. 25. It may also be noted that the interim order dated 02-8-2018
 was made absolute till the pendency of the present suit
 while disposing off the application under Order XXXIX
 Rules 1 & 2 CPC , vide order dated 16-10-2023 passed by
 Ld. Predecessor of this Court. 26. Vide order dated 18-2-2024, following issues were framed
 from the pleadings of the parties:- 27. It may be clarified here that total 6 (Six) issues were
 framed vide order dated 28-2-2024, which are noted
 above. However, in the Court's proceedings/order sheet
 dated 28-2-2024, issue no.2 which is already reproduced
 hereinabove, inadvertently was shown in two separate
 parts, by way of issue nos. 2 and 3. It may be noted that in
 fact, the issue no.3 is not a separate issue and rather, same
 is in continuation of issue no.2 which is apparent from bare
 reading of the language of issue nos.2 and 3. It appears that
 same occurred due to application of 'automatic bullet
 numbering command' as inadvertently at the end of first
 page of proceedings dated 28-2-2024, 'Enter key' would
 have been pressed in order to give pagination number,
 which would have in creation of fresh bullet number i.e.
 no.3. Thus, issue nos. 2 and 3 be read as issue no.2 and
 issues framed thereafter may be read as issue nos. 3, 4, 5
 and 6 respectively. 28. The defendant nos.2 and 3 had also stopped appearing in
 this case and consequently, they were also proceeded
 against as ex parte, vide order dated 01-5-2024, passed by
 this Court. 29. In support of its case, the plaintiff company has examined
 only one witness i.e. its AR namely Ms. Meena Bansal as
 PW1. She led examination-in-chief by way of affidavit
 [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of the facts of the plaint
 and relied on the following documents:- 30. On statement of AR the plaintiff, the ex parte evidence of
 the plaintiff was closed on 01-05-2024. After closure of
 PE, ex parte final arguments were heard. 31. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause Nos. 38(c), 38(e),
 38(f), 38(g) and 38(h) of the amended plaint regarding
 delivery up, rendition of accounts of profits, disclosing the
 details of the exporter/ supplier from where impugned
 goods have been supplied including the complete name,
 address, e-mail id, contract number, bank details,
 disclosing the details of all the entities involved in the
 infringement chain of the impugned goods and restraining
 the defendant no.1 from disposing off or dealing with his
 assets respectively. Accordingly, the plaintiff was
 permitted to give up the said reliefs as prayed in Prayer
 Clause Nos. 38(c), 38(e), 38(f), 38(g) and 38(h) of the
 amended plaint, vide order dated 16-07-2024. 32. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ISSUE WISE FINDINGS 33. My issue wise findings are as under:- 34. Firstly I shall take up the issue no.(i), which is reproduced
 hereunder:- 35. Onus to prove the aforesaid issue was placed upon
 defendant nos. 2 and 3. As already noted above, the said
 defendants had failed to file written statement to the
 amended plaint in conformity with the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 and also stopped appearing in this matter and
 eventually, they were proceeded against as ex parte.
 Moreover, none had turned up on their behalf to
 cross-examine PW1. 36. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that since the reliefs
 involved in the present suit were of urgent in nature, the
 bar contained in S. 155 (2) of the Customs Act, 1962
 and/or S. 80 CPC shall not apply to the present suit. In
 support of said submissions, he has drawn attention of the
 Court to the relevant averments appearing in the plaint and
 the reliefs sought therein. 37. No doubt, S. 80 (1) CPC clearly stipulates that no suit or
 legal proceeding shall be instituted against the Central
 Government/ State Government/ Statutory Authorities
 without serving prior notice upon them before institution
 of any suit. However, an exception is carved out in S.
 80(2) CPC, to the effect that any suit to obtain an urgent or
 immediate relief against the government / public
 authorities may be instituted, with the leave of the Court,
 without serving any notice as required by Sub-Section (1)
 thereof. However, the language employed in S. 155 (1) of
 the Customs Act, 1962 would show that it prohibits filing
 of any suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings against
 the Central Government or any officer of the Government
 or local authority for any act done or intended to be done
 in good faith in pursuance to the said Act or the Rules
 framed thereunder. 38. In the case in hand, there cannot be any dispute that some
 of the reliefs including the relief of permanent injunction,
 as sought by the plaintiff, are of urgent nature. In fact,
 keeping in view the urgency of such relief(s) and on the
 basis of material on record, Ld. Predecessor of this Court
 had been pleased to grant ex parte an ad interim injunction
 in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants at the
 initial stage of trial. It is an admitted position on record
 that the plaintiff has not sought any relief against Custom
 Department or any of its officers for any official act done
 or intended to be done in good faith within the meaning of S. 155(1) of the Customs Act, 1962. For all these reasons, TM/62/2018 Page 18 of 36 -19- this Court is entirely in agreement with the submissions
 made on behalf of the plaintiff that the present suit is not
 barred either by S. 80 CPC or by S. 155 of the Customs
 Act, 1962. Accordingly, this issue is decided against the
 defendant nos. 2 and 3 and in favour of the plaintiff. ISSUE NO.2. 39. Now, I shall take up the issue no.(ii), which reads as
 under:- 40. The onus to prove aforesaid issue was placed upon
 plaintiff. In order to discharge its burden, the plaintiff has
 examined sole witness i.e. its AR namely Ms. Meena
 Bansal as PW-1, as already noted above. She tendered her
 evidence by way of affidavit, therein deposing on the
 identical lines of averments made in the plaint and has
 proved the relevant documents, which are already noted
 above. ARGUMENTS OF THE PLAINTIFF 41. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that
 the entire testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged
 and un-rebutted from the side of defendants and therefore,
 the plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as prayed
 for. In support of his submissions, Counsel also relied
 upon the documents [Ex.PW1/1 (Colly.) to Ex.PW1/7 and
 Ex.PW1/B]. 42. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the
 trademark VICTORIA'S SECRET and its formative
 trademarks/ labels are well known trademarks of the
 plaintiff and are registered under various classes of the
 Trademark Rules 2002 in India, which are valid and
 subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till date. The
 aforesaid trade marks/ labels are also registered in many
 other countries. Further, the art works involved in the
 trademarks/ labels is original artistic work and the plaintiff
 holds copyright therein. Further, it is submitted that the
 plaintiff spends huge amount of money in advertising and TM/62/2018 Page 20 of 36 -21- promotion of its products and said Marks enjoy a huge
 goodwill and reputation in business community and public
 in general in India. 43. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned trade mark
 VICTORIA'S SECRET and its formative trademarks/
 label VICTORIA'S SECRET PINK, PINK, VICTORIA'S
 SECRET BOMBSHELL etc. as adopted by defendant
 no.1, which are identical and/ or confusingly or
 deceptively similar to the registered trademark of the
 plaintiff VICTORIA'S SECRET and its formative
 trademarks/ label VICTORIA'S SECRET PINK, PINK,
 VICTORIA'S SECRET BOMBSHELL etc., not only
 amounts to committing fraud upon the plaintiff company
 but also upon the unwary general public, due to which the
 plaintiff company suffers huge monetary loss and its
 goodwill and reputation is also at stake and therefore, he
 urged that the suit may be decreed in favour of the plaintiff
 and against the defendant no.1, thereby restraining the
 defendant no.1 and all others acting for and on his behalf
 from using the said impugned trade-mark/ label. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION 44. I have considered the submissions made on behalf of the
 plaintiff. I have also duly considered the relevant material
 available on records. JURISDICTION 45. Firstly, as regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is submitted
 by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the Defendant no.1 is TM/62/2018 Page 21 of 36 -22- soliciting, networking and in turn, offering to sell and is
 supplying the impugned goods bearing the impugned
 trademark to the dealers and distributors in the markets of
 New Delhi viz. Parliament Street, Barakhamba,
 Chanakyapuri, Gole Market, Khan Market, Bengali Market
 etc. The said defendant is committing the act of
 infringement and passing off in the area of New Delhi by
 making clandestine and surreptitious sales and distribution.
 Hence, it is contended that a part or whole of cause of
 action has arisen within the jurisdiction of this Court
 within the meaning of S. 20 of CPC. 46. Besides, it is further argued by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that
 the plaintiff is also carrying on its said goods and business
 under its said trademarks/label at Delhi International
 Airport [Delhi Duty Free] and thus, the plaintiff has
 extensive goodwill and reputation under the said
 trademark/labels on account of voluminous sales and
 advertisement within the jurisdiction of the Court through
 online platforms like Flipkart, e-bay, Snapdeal etc. which
 are interactive in nature and are accessible within the
 jurisdiction of this Court and goods can be purchased and
 delivered within the jurisdiction of this Court. Thus, it is
 contended that this Court has also territorial jurisdiction to
 entertain and try the present suit within the meaning of S.
 134 (2) of the Trademarks Act, 1999 and also under S.
 62(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. 47. The PW1 has categorically deposed in her affidavit in
 evidence on identical lines of the averments made in the TM/62/2018 Page 22 of 36 -23- plaint. PW-1 has proved copy of document in support of
 plaintiff business in New Delhi jurisdiction as Ex.PW-1/6.
 Ex.PW1/6 is document which appears to be extracts of
 news article (online) dated 14th April, 2014, wherein it is
 duly shown/reported that Delhi Duty Free had opened
 Victoria's Secret at Delhi T3, which falls within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 48. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted as the defendants have neither filed written
 statement in conformity with the Commercial Courts Act,
 2015 nor have chosen to cross-examine PW1. 49. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of the
 facts and circumstances of the case, the Court is of the
 considered opinion that at least part cause of action has
 arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court and
 therefore, this Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and
 entertain the suit. PERMANENT INJUNCTION: 50. Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 51. It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own
 Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC
 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- 5127859/08.02.2018 and in response thereto, the plaintiff
 through its counsel had reverted back to the defendant no.2
 vide letter dated 12-3-2018 and 02-4-2018, thereby
 informing the defendant no.2 that seized goods are
 counterfeit. Therefore, the plaintiff has been able to
 establish on record that the impugned seized goods were
 imported by M/s Alangar Apparels i.e. defendant no.1. 56. In the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case,
 the Court is of the view that the plaintiff has succeeded in
 proving that the defendant no.1 had imported seized goods
 bearing falsified trademark /trade name/ labels of the
 plaintiff company and therefore, trademarks and copyright
 of plaintiff company are required to be protected. 57. Accordingly, the plaintiff is held entitled to decree of
 permanent injunction whereby the defendant is required to
 be restrained from using trademark VICTORIA'S
 SECRET and its formative trademarks/ label
 VICTORIA'S SECRET PINK, PINK, VICTORIA'S
 SECRET BOMBSHELL etc. or any other trade mark
 which may be identical with and/ or deceptively similar to
 the plaintiff's said trade mark VICTORIA'S SECRET and
 its formative trademarks/ label VICTORIA'S SECRET
 PINK, PINK, VICTORIA'S SECRET BOMBSHELL etc.
 in relation to similar goods, thereby infringing Plaintiff's
 registered trademarks, copyright and passing off their
 products as that of the plaintiff. 58. Accordingly, the issue no. (ii) is decided against defendant
 no.1 and in favour of the plaintiff. ISSUE NO.3 59. Now I shall decide issue no.3 which is reproduced
 hereunder:- 60. In order to decide this issue, it would be relevant to
 mention about the relevant relief sought by plaintiff by
 way of Prayer Clause (b) of the amended plaint. Same
 reads as under:- 61. The onus to prove the aforesaid issue was placed upon the
 plaintiff. As already noted above, the defendants nos.2 and
 3 did not turn up to cross-examine PW1 apart from the fact
 that they had failed to file written statement to the
 amended plaint in conformity with the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 despite availing number of opportunities, which
 ultimately led to closure of their right to file written
 statement to the amended plaint. 62. Admittedly, the written statement, which was initially filed
 to the original plaint, is not in accordance with the
 provisions of Commercial Courts Act, 2015 . Further,
 defendant nos. 2 and 3 had also stopped appearing and
 consequently, were proceeded against ex parte. 63. As already noted hereinbefore, the detention of impugned
 goods has been made by the custom authorities under the TM/62/2018 Page 29 of 36 -30- Intellectual Property Rights (Imported Goods)
 Enforcement Rules, 2007. The said relevant Rules
 provides the requisite procedure to be followed in respect
 of the seized infringed goods. Rule 2 (d) thereof defines
 the term 'Right Holder' as under:- 64. In the present case, the plaintiff has been held to be owner
 of the said trademark while rendering findings on issue no. (ii) in the preceding paras. Thus, as per the aforesaid the
 Intellectual Property Rights (Imported Goods)
 Enforcement Rules, 2007 of the Custom Authorities, the
 plaintiff squarely falls within the definition of
 'Right Holder'. 65. Further, Rule 9 of the Intellectual Property Rights
 (Imported Goods) Enforcement Rules, 2007 provides as
 under:- 66. In the case in hand, the defendant nos.2 and 3 have chosen
 not to file any written statement. Therefore, under Rule 9,
 as quoted above, the plaintiff was entitled to be provided
 with the requisite information as mentioned therein. 67. Further, Rule 7 (Suspension of clearance of imported
 goods) and Rule 11 (Disposal of infringing goods) lays
 down the complete procedure of suspension of release and
 disposal thereof as under :- 68. Thus, it is quite evident from bare perusal of the aforesaid
 rules that the infringed seized goods can be destroyed by
 the Custom Authorities and the cost is to be borne by the
 'Right Holder', which is plaintiff in this case. 69. In the present case, the defendant nos.2 and 3 were
 directed vide order dated 16-7-2024, passed by the Court
 to file status report in respect of the seized/ confiscated
 goods vide Bill of Entry No.5127859 dated 08-2-2018, as
 also the status of the adjudication proceedings qua those
 confiscated/ seized goods. However, the said defendants
 have not filed any such report before the Court till date.
 Hence, the Court is virtually deprived of having the status
 of such confiscated / seized goods, despite the fact that
 defendant nos. 2 and 3 were duty bound under the law to
 render all due assistance to the Court for the purpose of
 effective adjudication of the subject matter involved in the
 suit. 70. In view of the foregoing reasons and the discussions made
 hereinbefore, the defendant nos.2 and 3 are hereby TM/62/2018 Page 32 of 36 -33- restrained from releasing the infringed seized goods vide
 Bill of Entry No.5127859 dated 08-2-2018 to the
 defendant no.1 and they are further directed to consider the
 destruction of the infringed seized goods as per the
 procedure laid down in this regard in the light of rules
 quoted above and also keeping in view all the enabling
 provisions governing the situation in hand and while
 complying with relevant directions, if any, issued by
 Hon'ble Superior Courts in this regard. This issue stands
 decided in these terms. ISSUE NO.4 71. Now I shall decide issue no.4 regarding delivery up which
 is reproduced hereunder:- 72. No finding is required to be given in respect of aforesaid
 issue, in view of statement of counsel of plaintiff made on
 16-07-2024 regarding giving up the relief as prayed in
 Prayer Clause No. 38(c) of the amended plaint and
 consequent order thereof. ISSUE NO.5 73. Now I shall decide issue no.5 which is reproduced TM/62/2018 Page 33 of 36 -34- hereunder:- 74. No finding is required to be given in respect of aforesaid
 issue, in view of statement of counsel of plaintiff made on
 16-07-2024 regarding giving up the relief as prayed in
 Prayer Clause No. 38(e) of the amended plaint and
 consequent order thereof. RELIEF: 75. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on the
 basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendant(s) and the following reliefs are granted:- 76. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. 77. File be consigned to Record Room, after due compliance.