Prathiba M. Singh, J. 1. This judgment is pronounced through video-conferencing.
 CM APPL. 11573/2020 (exemption from filing court fee and attested
 affidavits) 2. This is an application seeking exemption from filing court fee and
 duly attested affidavits. Binding the deponent of the affidavit to the contents
 of the application, the exemption is granted. Insofar as the court fee is
 concerned, the same be deposited within one week. Application is disposed W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 1 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 of. Registry to submit a report in case the court fees is not filed after a
 month. W.P.(C) No. 3301/2020 and CM APPLs. 11572/2020, 11574/2020 3. The present petition has been filed by Mr. Diwan Chand Goyal who is
 the Sole Proprietor of S.D Construction Company, Delhi (hereinafter,
 "Petitioner")against the National Capital Region Transport Corporation
 (hereinafter,"NCRTC")which is a joint venture company of the Government
 of India and four states i.e., Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and
 Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (hereinafter "GNCTD"). 4. The challenge is to the letter dated 29 th April, 2020 by which the
 NCRTC banned the Petitioner from participating in all future bids for a
 period of five years. The bid security amount which was submitted was also
 forfeited and the Petitioner's offer was directed to be rejected in all bids
 which were still under evaluation with the NCRTC. Only the on-going work
 was permitted to be carried out. The said letter has been challenged on
 several grounds. The prayer in the writ is that the debarment for five years
 ought to be removed and the security deposit released to the Petitioner. The
 reliefs sought are set out below: Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 5. The petition was first listed on 1st June, 2020 on which date the
 DIMTS, an organisation which had issued the experience certificate to the
 Petitioner, for satisfying the eligibility condition was directed to be
 impleaded in the matter. One of the letters relied upon by the Petitioner was
 a letter dated 20th September, 2019 which according to the DIMTS appeared
 forged - leading to the blacklisting and other punitive action. Since the stand
 of DIMTS was crucial, an affidavit was also called for from the DIMTS on
 15th June, 2020. 6. The pleadings in the matter are complete and final arguments were
 heard. Submissions of The Parties 7. Ms. Anusuya Salwan, ld. counsel appearing for the Petitioner took the
 Court through the Notice For Invitation of Bids (hereinafter "NIB") dated
 26th August, 2019. She relied upon Clause 2.4.2 to submit that as per the
 said clause all bidders were supposed to show their capability to execute the
 contract in terms of the said clause. The bidders were to submit Form EXP-
 2(b) setting out the particulars of a similar work executed by the Petitioner. 8. Ms. Salwan submitted that the Petitioner's track record is extremely
 good and the Petitioner is a Contractor who has successfully executed
 several projects for the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (hereinafter
 "DMRC") and other organisations. The Petitioner wished to rely upon one
 similar work executed for the DMRC in Delhi to show how it satisfied the
 eligibility criteria. Thus, along with the bid documents, certificate dated 3rd
 May, 2018 issued by DIMTS for Construction of Cluster Bus Depot at
 Dwarka Sector-22, New Delhi which was valued for a sum of approximately W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 3 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 Rs.22 crores was relied upon by the Petitioner. A second letter dated 20th
 September, 2019 giving the break-up was also attached. Ld. counsel for the
 Petitioner submitted that the form which was filled up by the Petitioner did
 not mislead or give any incorrect facts. Ms. Salwan submitted that the NIB
 in fact defined `corrupt practices' and `fraudulent practices' in Clause 3 of
 the Instructions to Bidders. The same required that in order for a practice to
 be termed as a fraudulent practice the Contractor ought to have made a
 material misrepresentation or omission of facts. The two letters to satisfy
 experience for executing a similar project were dated 3rd May, 2018 and 20th
 September, 2019 merely certified that the project which was executed by the
 Petitioner was more than Rs.22 crores and this was also submitted in
 annexure Form EXP 2(b) dealing with the specific work experience. The
 two letters did not either misrepresent or omit any relevant/material facts
 and thus did not constitute corrupt or fraudulent practice. Ms. Salwan
 submitted that there was not even a need for the Petitioner to submit the
 second certificate dated 20th September, 2019. 9. The satisfactory completion of the said project was quite clear from
 the certificate issued by the DIMTS and, therefore, there was no need
 whatsoever for the Petitioner to submit any forged or non-genuine
 certificates. In any case, it was argued, that the said letter according to the
 NCRTC did not satisfy the condition, hence, the Petitioner did not derive
 any advantage from the said certificate. Ld. Counsel further argued that in
 reply to the show cause notice all these facts were clearly informed to the
 NCRTC which facts, however, were not considered and the impugned order
 blacklisting the Petitioner for a period of five years was passed. Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 10. Ld. Counsel thereafter pointed out that after submission of the bid, the
 NCRTC sought a clarification on 11th December, 2019 as to the break up
 cost of the similar work. In response thereto, the Petitioner on 16 th
 December, 2019 stated that it approached the client for issuance of
 additional certificate mentioning cost of similar work i.e. Building work, and
 that the client denied the issue of the additional certificate as they had
 already issued the Performance Certificate and the NCRTC was requested to
 send clarification directly to DIMTS. 11. According to Ms. Salwan, the Petitioner was completely surprised
 when it came to its knowledge that on 10th January, 2020, the Petitioner's
 technical bid was shown as rejected, on the website of the NCRTC. Upon
 rejection of the technical bid of the Petitioner, refund of the security deposit
 was sought by the Petitioner from the NCRTC. However, surprisingly, on 4 th
 February, 2020 instead of refunding the security deposit the NCRTC chose
 to issue a show cause notice alleging that the second certificate issued by the
 engineer dated 20th September, 2019 was forged and the Petitioner was
 asked to show cause as to why the Petitioner ought not to be barred for a
 period of five years and the bid security deposit forfeited. She submitted
 that detailed replies were given to the show cause notice, however,
 unfortunately, on 29th April, 2020 the impugned letter was issued by the
 competent authority taking extreme punitive action against the Petitioner. 12. Thus, according to Ms. Salwan, the challenge in this writ petition is
 that the Petitioner denies the fact that there was any forgery. She submitted
 that no advantage has been derived by the Petitioner by submitting the said
 letter. The original letter of the DIMTS, which is a certificate of completion,
 was to the same effect as was the certificate by the engineer dated 20th W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 5 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 September, 2019. She submitted that the track record of the Petitioner has
 been completely unblemished and accordingly, the kind of punishment that
 has been imposed by the NCRTC is completely disproportionate to the
 allegation that has been raised against the Petitioner. Ld. counsel further
 submitted that no hearing was given to the Petitioner despite the fact that
 detailed replies were submitted to the show cause notice. The second
 certificate which is alleged to be forged cannot in any manner put the
 Petitioner to such a disadvantageous position insofar as the Petitioner has
 over 100 employees and there are several others who depend upon the
 Petitioner's business. She submitted that the impugned decision of the
 NCRTC would result in civil death of the Petitioner who has an excellent
 track record. She submitted that not a single litigation is pending between
 her client and the DMRC or the NCRTC. She submitted that organizations
 similar to the DMRC provide for an appeal, however, the NCRTC has not
 made any such remedy available to the Petitioner. 13. Vehement reliance is placed upon the settled law in this regard
 including the judgment of the Supreme Court in M/s Kulja Industries Ltd. v.
 Chief General Manager W.T. Proj . BSNL & Ors., 2014 (14) SCC 731. Ld.
 Counsel submitted that various guidelines have been laid down by the
 Supreme Court in respect of banning and blacklisting. The said decision of
 the Supreme Court has also been followed by the Delhi High Court in the
 following cases: 14. She also relied upon the following judgments: 15. It is submitted that the impugned letter is liable to be set aside and the
 forfeited security deposit refunded to the Petitioner. Ld. counsel also relied
 upon the affidavit of the DIMTS which does not state that the certificate of
 the engineer is forged or non-genuine. She submitted that in view of the
 circumstances, the writ petition may be allowed and the five years'
 blacklisting may also be set aside. 16. On the irreparable injury that is caused to the Petitioner, she submitted
 that the explanation of the Petitioner was that a site engineer had obtained a
 certificate dated 20th September, 2019 and the same was submitted with the
 bid documents itself. It was not a document which was specifically created
 or fabricated in any manner by the Petitioner to satisfy the conditions of the
 bid. She urged that the Petitioner has more than 100 employees and 200 to
 300 labourers working with it. The impugned blacklisting order, according
 to her, is having a cascading effect inasmuch as various other Government
 Departments have also started raising queries in respect of the said
 blacklisting. This has also resulted in the Petitioner not being able to
 participate in any Government tenders of the NCRTC and may even have an
 effect on other Government tenders where the Petitioner wishes to
 participate. She thus, submitted that the impugned order did not satisfy M/s Kulja Industries (supra) and is liable to be set aside. Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 17. Mr. Siddarth Dave, ld. Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
 NCRTC commenced his submissions by relying upon the definitions of
 corrupt practice and fraudulent practice. He submitted that while the said
 two practices are separately categorised and any practice which is indulged
 in by the bidder to influence the procurement process or execution of the
 contract would constitute a fraudulent practice. As per clause 3.1 (b) and
 3.1 (d) the consequence of a fraudulent practice would be forfeiture to the
 security deposit and debarment for a period of five years. He also relied
 upon the affidavit filed by the bidder/ Petitioner at page 196 and 198
 wherein the bidder/ Petitioner clearly swore to this clause and had deposed
 that if he indulged in any corrupt or fraudulent practice the consequences
 would have to be suffered. 18. Insofar as Clause 2.4.2 of the NIB is concerned, the interpretation
 given by Mr. Siddarth Dave, is that the expression `similar work' has been
 specifically defined under this clause and is not a general experience clause
 as in other tenders. `Similar work' has been specifically defined as
 "Construction of buildings with facilities of HVAC, Fire Fighting and
 Electrical works" where HVAC stands for Heat, Ventilation and Air
 Conditioning". The certificate dated 3rd May, 2018 was a general certificate
 giving the completion cost whereas the second certificate dated 20 th
 September, 2019 was purportedly to give the breakup to satisfy the
 conditions under Clause 2.4.2. He submitted that the second certificate was,
 therefore, a deliberate submission by the Petitioner to satisfy the conditions
 under Clause 2.4.2 and the contents of the same were not identical to the
 first certificate dated 3rd May, 2018. The bidder/ Petitioner sought to gain an
 advantage by submitting the second certificate. When the NCRTC was not W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 8 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 satisfied with the bidder's/ Petitioner's experience certificate, a clarification
 was sought by the NCRTC on 27th November, 2019 on the portal. In its
 reply on 3rd December, 2019, the bidder/ Petitioner took the stand that
 various other experience certificates would not even be required for the
 bidder inasmuch as the Dwarka completion certificate by itself satisfied the
 bid conditions. The bidder's/ Petitioner's stand, therefore, was clearly that it
 was relying upon the two certificates issued by the DIMTS to satisfy the
 conditions of the bid. 19. However, the NCRTC was not satisfied and on 11th December, 2019
 specific reference was given to clause 2.4.2 and a clarification was sought.
 In response thereto, the bidder/ Petitioner asked the NCRTC to seek a
 clarification directly from DIMTS as the employer in the Dwarka project
 had refused to give any further certificate. When the NCRTC sought a
 clarification from the DIMTS, that is when it was informed of the forgery
 which the bidder/ Petitioner had committed. He thus, submitted that when
 DIMTS has clearly certified that the second letter dated 20th September,
 2019 was a forgery, there was nothing remaining for the NCRTC to decide
 inasmuch as submission of a forged document would constitute a fraudulent
 practice. 20. The bidder/ Petitioner was also conscious of this fact and therefore, on
 20th January, 2020 it did not even challenge the technical evaluation and
 merely sought release of the earnest money. It was at that stage that the
 NCRTC decided to take action in terms of the corrupt practice clause in NIB
 and the show cause notice dated 4th February, 2020 was issued. The bidder/
 Petitioner submitted its reply to the said show cause notice on 13 th February,
 2020. Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 21. Mr. Dave, ld. Senior Counsel, thereafter, relied upon the reply to the
 show cause notice dated 13th February, 2020 to submit that the Petitioner did
 not take a fair stand even in this reply. He submitted that a perusal of the
 reply would show that the Petitioner merely tried to justify the reliance on
 certificate no. DIMTS/ENGG/DGM-P/BUS DEPOT/DS-22/58/475 dated
 20th September, 2019 on the ground that the said certificate did not show any
 deviation in the facts and figures as contained in the completion certificate
 dated 3rd May, 2018. He relied upon the fact that in this reply, there was no
 prayer made requesting for any oral/personal hearing. Highlighting the fact
 that the stand of the Petitioner is that the forgery appeared meaningless, it
 was submitted that the attempt by the Petitioner was to completely downplay
 the whole issue. 22. It is submitted that when the NCRTC came to know that the letter was
 forged, it proceeded to thereafter impose the five-year ban as per clause 3.1
 of the tender documents. Reference was made to the judgment relied upon
 by Ms. Salwan in M/s Kulja Industries Limited (supra). It was submitted
 that the said judgment supported the case of the NCRTC. Reference was
 made to paragraph 20 of this judgment to argue that in paragraphs 20 to 23,
 the international position on blacklisting which is also known as debarment
 was considered by the Court and after considering the same, the Supreme
 Court came to the conclusion that the question as to whether once there is
 any fraudulent practice which is adopted by the bidder, what should be the
 period of debarment ought to be left to the authority concerned. It was also
 submitted that the rule of giving oral hearing is not inviolable and hence in
 every matter there is no compulsion to grant an oral hearing. He submitted
 that the ratio of this case is that the period of black listing ought to be as per W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 10 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 the seriousness of the case and the nature of the offence. Once the Court
 comes to the conclusion that there has been any fraudulent practice, the
 Court ought not to interfere with the period of black listing. He argued that
 the reason why in the said case the matter was remanded back to the
 authority was because the black listing by BSNL of the contractor was for
 "all times to come" and was in fact perpetual in nature. 23. Reliance was also placed upon Grosons Pharmaceuticals (P) Ltd v.
 State Of Uttar Pradesh AIR 2001 SC 3707 to argue that the show cause
 notice which was given was sufficient compliance of the requirement of
 natural justice. Once the show cause notice was issued and the reply was
 considered, the Petitioner could not insist on a hearing. Finally, it was
 submitted that the forgery/fabrication was not even being justified by the
 Petitioner. In M/s Patel Engineering Limited v. UOI & Anr 2012 (11) SCC
 257 it was observed at para 26 : 24. Reliance was placed on Patel Engineering (supra) to argue that in a
 case where the bidder was declared successful and he walked out from a
 contract, the Court came to the conclusion that the bidder had committed a W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 11 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 legal wrong. The contractor was guilty of dereliction and huge financial loss
 was caused to the Petitioner. The decision to black list the contractor was
 held to be neither irrational nor perverse. 25. Ld. Counsel for the NCRTC submitted that the decision to black list
 was completely justified. This was in view of the provisions of the NIB
 which was duly affirmed to and was in the knowledge of the Petitioner who
 had submitted an affidavit of undertaking to comply with the same. At the
 time when the show cause notice was issued, even in the reply, no hearing
 was sought. However, after the black listing issue a representation was made
 on 4th May, 2020 and at that stage a hearing was sought. By the said period,
 since the black listing order had already been passed, no occasion arose for
 giving any further hearing to the Petitioner. 26. Ms. Salwan, addressing her rejoinder submitted that in order for
 clause 3, NIB to be invoked, there has to be misrepresentation or omission
 of facts leading to the five-year ban. She submitted that the letter dated 20th
 September, 2019 did not have any facts which were misrepresented in nature
 for the purpose of procuring of the bid. Her submission was that the
 completion certificate in fact was merely reiterated in the certificate dated
 20th September, 2019. She again reiterated her submission about the
 Petitioners' experience, which according to her could not have been
 doubted, inasmuch as the completion certificate itself was sufficient to show
 the requisite experience possessed by the Petitioner.
 Analysis and Findings 27. Heard counsels for the parties. The allegation in this case is that the
 Petitioner submitted two certificates to prove that it had the experience as
 per the eligibility conditions. Reliance was placed on two letters of DIMTS W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 12 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 dated 3rd May, 2018 and 20th September, 2019. The submission of these
 documents is not in dispute. They were submitted along with the bid itself.
 The first document dated 3rd May 2018 of DIMTS was an experience
 certificate mentioning the project executed by the Petitioner along with the
 total value of the project. The second document i.e. the performance
 certificate dated 20thSeptember, 2019 was to support the Petitioner's claim
 of experience in a similar project, with the cost break-up of various
 components in the project. DIMTS vide its letter dated 24th December, 2019
 had informed NCRTC that the second certificate had never been issued by it
 and `seemed to be forged'. The question, therefore, is whether the
 submission of this Performance certificate constitutes a corrupt practice or a
 fraudulent practice. At the outset some relevant clauses of the Bid
 documents need to be noticed. Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 estimated compensation and damages payable to
 the Employer for, inter alia, time cost and efforts
 of the Employer), without prejudice to any other
 right or remedy that may be available to the
 Employer. (ii) And if the bidder has already been issued
 the Letter of Acceptance or has entered into the
 Agreement, as the case may be, the same shall,
 notwithstanding anything to the contrary
 contained therein or in this bid document, be
 banned for further business dealings with the
 Employer for a period of five years, by a
 communication in writing by the Employer to the
 bidder, without the Employer being liable in any
 manner whatsoever to the bidder or the bidder, as
 the case may be. Further the Contract of the
 bidder may be terminated and the decision of
 Employer in this regard shall be final and binding
 on the bidder. In case the contract is terminated,
 Employer shall forfeit and appropriate the
 Performance Security (to be created as mutually
 agreed pre-estimated compensation and damages)
 payable to the Employer for, inter alia, time cost
 and efforts of the Employer), without prejudice to
 any other right or remedy that may be available to
 the Employer." In the above clauses of the NIB, corrupt and fraudulent practices are
 specifically defined and the consequences in case of the bidder indulging in
 corrupt/fraudulent practice are also provided for. 28. The chronology of events leading to the filing of this petition are
 relevant. The bid required, under clause 2.4.2, experience to be established
 by the bidder for `similar work'. The clause prescribing the experience
 required reads as under: The bidder must have completed/substantially
 completed work(s) during last 07 (seven) years
 ending last day of the month previous to the month
 of bid submission as given below: completed if 90% or more of the work is physically
 completed which is to be substantiated by a
 certificate from the employer who has awarded the
 work to the bidder. Or
 If 90% of payment of the awarded contract value
 or revised contract value whichever is lower has
 been received by the bidder. This is to be
 substantiated by a certificate from the employer
 who has awarded the work to the bidder. Definition of Similar Work: 29. As per the above clauses, bidders were required to submit documents
 for at least one similar work which was of a value of not less than Rs. 10.65
 crore or two similar works, each of a value of not less than Rs.6.66 crores or
 three similar works of not less that Rs.5.33 crores each. The bid documents
 were submitted by the Petitioner on 7th November, 2019. In order to qualify
 as per the experience criteria, the Petitioner submitted a certificate of W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 16 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 DIMTS dated 3rd May, 2018 which certified that the Petitioner had
 completed work of construction of Cluster Bus Depot at Dwarka, Sector-22,
 New Delhi for contract value of Rs.18,67,09,367/- and the total completion
 cost was Rs.22,09,98,187/-. Along with the said certificate, another alleged
 performance certificate dated 20th September, 2019 was also submitted.
 This is purportedly signed by the Project Manager of DIMTS and gives a
 breakup of the works which have been executed as part of the said project.
 As per the NCRTC, the bidder had to show experience in respect of "similar
 work" as defined in clause 2.4.2. 30. NCRTC sought a clarification on 27th November, 2019 to which the
 Petitioner, vide letter dated 3rd December, 2019 replied and took a stand that
 the construction of Dwarka Sector-22 depot is enough for it to qualify for
 the tender in terms of the qualifying criteria. NCRTC was not satisfied and
 it again sought further clarification from the Petitioner to satisfy the cost of
 the similar work vide letter dated 11th December, 2019. The Petitioner, vide
 letter dated 16th December, 2019 informed the NCRTC that it had
 approached DIMTS for issuance of an additional certificate mentioning the
 cost of similar works. In this letter it relied upon the performance certificate
 dated 20th September, 2020. The letter dated 16th December, 2019 reads as
 under: 31. Thus, the Petitioner's stand was that the performance certificate was
 issued by DIMTS as per the format of the CPWD and it requested the
 NCRTC to seek any further clarification directly from DIMTS. The
 Petitioner's bid was, however, rejected during technical evaluation. The
 Petitioner then sought refund of EMD (Earnest Money Deposit) of a sum of
 Rs.26,62,642/- by its letter dated 20th January, 2020. On 4th February, 2020
 a show cause notice was served upon the Petitioner. In the said show cause
 notice, the NCRTC relied upon the letter issued by the DIMTS dated 24th
 December 2019, which informed the NCRTC that the performance
 certificate appeared to be a forged document. The relevant extract of the
 letter of DIMTS dated 24th December 2019 reads: Thus, the above letter of DIMTS clearly informed NCRTC that the first
 letter was genuine but the second letter was forged. DIMTS further called
 upon NCRTC to take stringent action. The Petitioner filed a reply to the
 show cause notice on 13th February, 2020. After considering the reply
 NCRTC passed the impugned order on 29th April, 2020 banning the
 Petitioner for all its future bids for five years, rejecting the offer submitted in
 all its bids and finally forfeiting the bid security. The said letter specifically
 stated that the Project Manager himself confirmed that he had not issued the
 said performance certificate. The operative portion of this decision is set out
 herein below. 32. Upon receipt of this decision of the NCRTC, the Petitioner made a
 representation on 4th May, 2020. The explanation given in the said
 representation was that the site engineer, who was involved in the project,
 obtained this alleged performance certificate dated 20 th September, 2019 and
 the same was submitted to the Petitioner. The Petitioner then had not
 suspected the genuinity of the certificate and had, therefore, submitted it
 with the bid. In this representation for the first time, an opportunity of
 hearing was sought. 33. In the above narration of events, none of the facts are in dispute
 except the circumstances surrounding the issuance of the performance
 certificate dated 20th September, 2019. In writ jurisdiction, the Court is not W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 20 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 conducting a fact finding enquiry as to the circumstances surrounding the
 issuance of the said certificate. The Petitioner is neither contending that the
 said certificate is genuine nor seeking to justify the reliance on the said
 certificate. Ld. counsel for the Petitioner also did not seek to suggest that
 the certificate ought to be relied upon for the purpose of awarding
 punishment. The argument is that the site engineer had obtained it and the
 Petitioner was not aware as to how the same was obtained. Moreover, the
 name of the site engineer is also not put forth either in pleadings or in oral
 arguments. 34. The Petitioner is also not aggrieved by the rejection of its bid but is
 aggrieved by the action taken against it in terms of forfeiture of the security
 deposit, blacklisting for a period of five years etc. The vehement contention
 of the ld. counsel for the Petitioner is that the Petitioner is a company with
 an impeccable track record which has not been in dispute with the NCRTC
 or any other public organization with whom it has been dealing. It has
 successfully executed a large number of projects and hence, it should not be
 made to suffer in this manner. On merits, it is also submitted that the said
 certificate does not add to the experience of the Petitioner in any manner,
 inasmuch as the total value of the project itself was specified in the first
 certificate dated 3rdMay, 2018. The second performance certificate merely
 gave a breakup and nothing more. 35. There is no doubt that the clauses in the bid document as to what
 constitutes `corrupt practice' and `fraudulent practice'. A specific affidavit
 was submitted by the bidder/Petitioner primarily confirming the complete
 adherence to the bid conditions. A declaration has also been given that no
 misleading or false statement has been made in any of the documents W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 21 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 submitted to prove the qualification requirements. It was also categorically
 declared by the deponent of the bidder/ Petitioner that all the documents
 submitted are correct. Thus, apart from the specific clauses in the bid, a
 specific affidavit in respect of the documents submitted was also furnished
 by the bidder/ Petitioner. 36. The DIMTS in its affidavit, has stated that upon receiving a query
 from NCRTC, it was found that the Completion Certificate dated 3 rd May,
 2018 was issued by the office of answering performa Respondent (DIMTS)
 in favour of the Petitioner. However, the Performance Certificate dated 20th
 September, 2019 was neither drawn nor issued by the office of the DIMTS
 in favour of Petitioner. Thus, the second certificate is clearly a manufactured
 and fabricated document. There is no clarity in these proceedings as to the
 specific individual who was responsible for the manipulation or fabrication
 but the Petitioner having relied upon the said document has to shoulder the
 burden. The Petitioner has also not sought to explain the circumstances of
 the issuance of this certificate. The Court has to, under such circumstances,
 only to go by the record which shows the fact that this certificate was
 submitted with the bid and the same turned out to the forged. Whether the
 Petitioner gained an advantage by submission of this certificate is irrelevant.
 In any bidding process, every bidder is expected to submit genuine and
 correct documents. There can be no justification whatsoever for the
 submission of any misrepresentative facts or fabricated/manipulated
 documents. To that extent there can be no doubt that the Petitioner has
 indulged in wrong doing. The definition of fraudulent practice in the would
 clearly cover submission of a forged certificate as such submission would be
 a misrepresentation to influence bid/procurement process. Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 37. The question is what should be the consequence? While assessing
 any wrong doing and deciding upon the effect thereof, the issue of
 proportionality would have to be examined. NCRTC has taken the highest
 level punitive action as permitted under the bid under clause 3.1(d). The
 NCRTC has the power to impose the disqualification of banning for a period
 of five years, if there is any material misrepresentation. NCRTC can also
 forfeit and appropriate the bid security which is the amount mutually agreed
 to be pre-estimated damages and compensation. Thus, the NCRTC's stand
 is that it has taken action in terms of the bid document. The highest level of
 punitive action which could be taken under the bid document has been taken
 and the same has also been vehemently defended before this Court. 38. The Petitioner has placed reliance upon the judgment of M/s. Kulja
 Industries Ltd. (supra). In this case the Petitioner had submitted its bids in
 response to the tender notice by BSNL. It was a successful tenderer. Excess
 payment was made by the BSNL to the tenderer. BSNL's case was that the
 Petitioner had colluded with some of its officials to generate the forged
 vouchers and a sum of Rs.7.98 crores was paid in excess. Upon receiving
 the knowledge of the excess payments made, an FIR was filed. Parallelly,
 BSNL blacklisted the company. The Supreme Court observed that the
 power of blacklisting need not to be specifically conferred by the statute or
 reserved by the Contractor. The power is one, which is inherent in the party
 allotting the contract. The observations of the Supreme Court are as under: 39. The Court, thereafter, reviewed the legal position in respect of the
 blacklisting in other jurisdictions such as USA and UK and finally observed W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 24 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 as under: 40. In Erusian Equipment and Chemicals Limitedv. State of West
 Bengal & Anr., 1975 (1) SCC 70, the Supreme Court held that the party
 being blacklisted ought to be given an opportunity to represent its case
 before its blacklisting. In National Highways Authority of India (supra)
 passed by the ld. Division Bench of this Court, the National Highways
 Authority of India blacklisted the company for a period of three years. The
 ld. Division Bench observed that a forgery was not made out. However, the
 Court held that higher standard of objective fairness is required. The
 relevant portion of the said judgment is extracted herein below: Thus, under the facts of this case the Court had come to the conclusion that
 there was no forgery or corrupt practice and the order of the ld. Single Judge
 setting aside the blacklisting was upheld. 41. In M/s. S & P Infrastructure Developers Pvt. Ltd. (supra), the
 Petitioner was the successful bidder for construction of a highway. After
 submission of the bid document, National Highways and Infrastructure
 Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL) had received a complaint that a
 forged certificate was submitted by the bidder. The matter was investigated.
 Though the Petitioner had been declared as successful bidder, the signing of
 the contract was kept on hold. The Petitioner then argued that even if the
 said certificate is kept aside, it still qualifies the eligibility criteria. NHIDCL,
 however, invoked the bank guarantee submitted as security on the ground
 that the bidder had indulged in the fraudulent practice. The bidder was, W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 26 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 thereafter, debarred for two years. The Court found that the bidder had
 submitted documents which had inaccurate descriptions. However, the
 question raised was whether it constituted as corrupt, fraudulent, coercive,
 undesirable or restricted practice. Clause 4 in RFP document specified
 whether it constituted a fraudulent practice. The Court held that the
 Petitioner therein was not absolved of its liability in respect of the document,
 which was furnished along with the bid which it had certified to be true and
 correct. However, after analyzing the contents of bid document, the Court
 came to the conclusion that the submissions made in the said document
 about certain projects could not influence the bidding process as they were
 not eligible projects. The Court noted that blacklisting has a serious and
 adverse consequence. On the ground that the document did not influence
 the bidding process, the Court set aside the blacklisting. 42. In Grosons Pharmaceuticals (P) Ltd. (supra) elaborating on the
 principles of natural justice, prior to blacklisting, the Supreme Court held as
 under: Thus, as per the above judgment, a hearing is not mandatory but what is
 necessary is issuance of a show cause and an opportunity of reply, prior to
 any order being passed. 43. In M/s. Patel Engineering (supra), defining blacklisting, the Supreme
 Court observed as under: The nature of the authority of State to blacklist
 persons was considered by this Court in the
 abovementioned case* and took note of the
 constitutional provision ( Article 298 )**, which
 authorises both the Union of India and the States
 to make contracts for any purpose and to carry on
 any trade or business. It also authorises the
 acquisition, holding and disposal of property. This
 Court also took note of the fact that the right to
 make a contract includes the right not to make a
 contract. By definition, the said right is inherent in
 every person capable of entering into a contract.
 However, such a right either to enter or not to
 enter into a contract with any person is subject to
 a constitutional obligation to obey the command of W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 28 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 Article 14. Though nobody has any right to compel
 State to enter into a contract, everybody has a
 right to be treated equally when State seeks to
 establish contractual relationships*** The effect
 of excluding a person from entering into a
 contractual relationship with State would be to
 deprive such person to be treated equally with
 those, who are also engaged in similar activity. XXX 18. The next question that is required to be
 considered is whether the 2nd respondent is
 justified in blacklisting the petitioner in the facts
 and circumstances of the case. The necessary facts
 are already mentioned and they are not in dispute.
 Failure of the petitioner to conclude the contract
 by executing the necessary documents, admittedly,
 resulted in a legal wrong. Whether the 2nd
 respondent should have been satisfied with the
 forfeiture of the bid security amount or should
 have gone further to also blacklist the petitioner
 after forfeiting the bid security, is a matter
 requiring examination. In other words, the issue is
 one of the proportionality of the action taken by
 the 2nd respondent." Thus, in matters of blacklisting, the doctrine of proportionality is to be
 considered. 44. In Mekaster Trading Corporation Vs. UOI and Ors 2003 (71) DRJ
 376, a ld. Single Judge of this Court set aside a five year blacklisting order
 on the ground that the same was passed in a slipshod manner. In M/S Svogl
 Oil Gas & Energy Ltd. v. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. , 2016(232) DLT
 180 relied upon by the NCRTC, it was held that reasons for blacklisting
 have to be contained in the order, which blacklists the party. 45. Upon a reading of the aforesaid judgments cited on behalf of both the W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 29 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 parties, the general principles, which emerge, with respect to blacklisting
 are; (a) Principles of natural justice have to be complied with before the
 order of blacklisting is passed; (b) Natural justice or audi alteram partem does not always require
 a hearing to be granted. Serving of show cause notice and affording
 an opportunity to reply to the same, is considered as being adequate
 opportunity and is sufficient adherence to the principles of natural
 justice; (c) Blacklisting constitutes civil death and has extremely grave
 consequences. Thus, the same is amenable the judicial review if the
 same is by governmental authorities; (d) Any order of blacklisting ought to contain proper reasons. The
 reasons need not be detailed or elaborate. It is sufficient to be brief,
 pithy and concise; (e) Reasons should be supplied to the affected party; (f) Decision taken ought not to be arbitrary or discriminatory. (g) Blacklisting orders being amenable to judicial review can be
 judged on the standard of proportionality. Thus, the period of
 blacklisting as also terms and conditions thereof have to be
 proportionate to the irregularities or conduct of the bidder. 46. Every party has a freedom to contract. In exercise of this freedom,
 the giver of work or a project is free to award or allot the work to any person
 as it deems appropriate. However, in order to attract the most advantageous
 terms from the best qualified entities as also to maintain transparency and
 level playing field to all, the process of tendering is adopted. The tender W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 30 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 document contains all the requisite eligibility conditions and the documents
 that are required to be submitted by the prospective bidder. The prospective
 bidder is expected to only submit genuine and correct documents and make
 correct claims in a bid. In order to fully ensure that no bidder is able to
 submit incorrect or false documents or make any misrepresentations in the
 bids submitted, bidders are cautioned with specific consequences being
 provided in the bid in case it is found that they have indulged in any
 incorrect practice. If, after going through a bid and agreeing to not indulge
 in any fraudulent or corrupt practice, any party is found to have indulged in
 the same, such conduct ought not to be condoned. If the bidder has adopted
 an incorrect, immoral, fraudulent or corrupt practice, action ought to be
 taken. However, the action taken can be judged on the benchmark of
 proportionality. 47. In the present case, the bidder / Petitioner was to establish that it had
 experience in executing the similar works. Despite clarifications being
 asked, the bidder/ Petitioner submitted experience documents relating to one
 project. In the bidder's/ Petitioner's view point, the said one project was
 sufficient for it to qualify or satisfy the eligibility criteria. Along with its
 bid, the two certificates of DIMTS, which the bidder/ Petitioner submitted
 dated 3rd May, 2018 and 20th September, 2019 were meant to act as
 evidence of fulfilment of the eligibility criteria. Thus, if only the first
 certificate was sufficient i.e. dated 3rd May, 2018, the second certificate
 dated 20th September, 2019 need not have been submitted. The fact that the
 bidder/ Petitioner submitted certificate dated 20th September, 2019 shows
 that it was conscious of the need for such a certificate to certify its
 performance as also the breakup of the various components of the projects, W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 31 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 which it had allegedly executed. Thus, the submission of certificate dated
 20th September, 2019 was neither superfluous nor an innocent act. It was a
 conscious and deliberate act on behalf of the bidder. The said certificate has
 later turned out to be forged. Submission of such certificate would clearly,
 in the opinion of this Court, constitute a fraudulent practice, which was
 meant to affect the bidding/procurement process. Thus, the facts of this case
 are completely distinguishable from M/s. S & P Infrastructure Developers
 Pvt. Ltd. (supra) judgment. 48. The NCRTC felt that the bidder did not satisfy the eligibility and
 sought clarifications. The chronology of events after submission of the bid
 and after NCRTC informed that the second certificate was forged, shows the
 bid was rejected and the Petitioner sought refund of the EMD amount. A
 show cause notice was issued informing the Petitioner that its second
 certificate was forged and an opportunity was given to file the reply. The
 Petitioner submitted its reply and it is relevant to highlight that in the said
 reply, the Petitioner did not seek a personal hearing. The impugned order
 dated 29th April, 2020 came to be passed and it was only thereafter that the
 Petitioner sought a personal hearing. The reply of the Petitioner was
 considered. In the facts of this case, the principles of natural justice have
 been adequately complied with as - • NCRTC duly verified the facts from DIMTS; • After receiving the letter of DIMTS and the clarification, the bid of
 the Petitioner was rejected; • It issued a show cause notice setting out the case against the
 Petitioner; Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 • Reply was sought which was duly submitted. No personal hearing
 was sought in the reply; • Blacklisting order was passed giving sufficient and adequate reasons;
 • A representation was then made seeking a hearing. The hearing was
 neither sought prior to the blacklisting nor is it compulsory to grant a
 hearing in every case. 49. However, the events that transpired when NCRTC sought
 clarification, shows that the Petitioner did take some mitigative steps i.e. it
 referred NCRTC to seek clarification from DIMTS directly, if needed and it
 did not challenge the rejection of its bid but merely sought refund of EMD
 amount. Thus, there may have been no malafide intention on behalf of the
 bidder/ Petitioner and it is nigh possible that the forgery was not in the
 knowledge of the Petitioner's management. It could have been an act of an
 employee, which is an issue not being gone into in the present writ petition.
 This fact ought to be taken into consideration while dealing with the
 question as to whether the punitive action as per impugned order is
 proportionate or not. 50. As per the impugned order, four measures have been taken by the
 NCRTC. The Competent Authority in NCRTC in terms of ITB 3.1 (d) of the
 Bid Document of the said Bid decided that the Petitioner should be: Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 (c) The Bid Security submitted by the firm in the subject Bid should
 be forfeited. (d) The Firm M/s S.D. Construction Co (Petitioner) should be
 permitted to complete the ongoing works with NCRTC. 51. A perusal of clause 3 shows that there are several kinds of
 impermissible practices that have been listed in the said clause including
 corrupt practice, fraudulent practice, collusive practice and coercive
 practices. All these practices, though falling under clause 3, are not identical
 to each other. The level of irregularity, fraud, collusion, corrupt practice
 ought to be taken into consideration in each and every case though for all
 these practices, disqualifying and banning is permitted for five years. Thus,
 the period of five years ought to be reckoned as the maximum period for
 which any bidder can be disqualified or banned by the NCRTC. Since the
 doctrine of proportionality applies while reviewing a blacklisting order, the
 nature of the practice indulged in, on behalf of the bidder would have to be
 considered along with any mitigative circumstances. The Petitioner has been
 subjected to the maximum possible punitive action for submitting
 incorrect/fabricated certificate. 52. The circumstances surrounding the issuance and submission of the
 same are not gone into. The submission of such a certificate in support of
 the certificate dated 3rd May, 2018 constituting misrepresentation would, in
 the opinion of this Court, attract punitive action but not to the maximum
 extent. The bidder/ Petitioner has already been subjected to a forfeiture of
 the bid security. In addition, the bidder/ Petitioner has been blacklisted for a
 period of five years and even in the bids, which are currently under
 consideration, the bids have been directed to be rejected. Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12 53. The averments in the writ petition show that the Petitioner has been in
 the construction business since 25 years. Its employees are a large number
 of workers and labourers and as per the counsel for the Petitioner, its
 business would come to complete stand still, as blacklisting of this nature by
 one government organization also has a cascading effect. 54. The submission of ld. counsel for the NCRTC has been, following
 M/s Kulja Industries judgment (supra), that once the Court comes to the
 conclusion that the blacklisting is excessive, in order to determine the period
 of blacklisting, the case ought to be remitted back to the authority. A
 perusal of Kulja Industries judgment(supra)shows that the observations of
 the Supreme Court on this question is as under: 55. A perusal of the above shows that remitting back to the authority is
 only one of the options, as per the Supreme Court. The Court decided the
 issue on the facts and circumstances which arose therein. Currently during
 the pandemic, construction work has either fully stopped or it has reached a
 bare minimum. The Petitioner has already been blacklisted since 29th April,
 2020. Even some of its earlier bids, which it had earlier submitted, may W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 35 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 have been rejected. Remitting back the case for reconsideration would lead
 to further delay, inasmuch as during the lockdown most of the offices are
 functioning at the very bare minimum. The Petitioner has employed various
 labourers, other staff and according to the Petitioner, his employees are more
 than 200 in number. Keeping all these contended facts and circumstances,
 this Court modifies the impugned order in the following terms: However, if any bids are still left to be considered, the same shall
 not be rejected merely on the basis of the impugned order dated
 29th April, 2020. The bids of the Petitioner already submitted, if
 opened henceforth, shall be considered on their own merits without
 being affected by the impugned order dated 29th April, 2020. If the
 Petitioner is found successful, the bid shall not be awarded prior to
 the expiry of the six months' period. (iv) In respect of ongoing works NCRTC has already permitted
 completion of ongoing works. Hence, no modification is called for. 56. Since the Petitioner is sufficiently sanctioned, the impugned order or
 the present order would not have any bearing on the Petitioner's ability to
 apply or bid in any future tenders or bids of the NCRTC or any other entity W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 36 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39 Digitally Signed By:SINDHU
 KRISHNAKUMAR
 Signing Date:02.09.2020 20:27:12

 including government and autonomous bodies. 57. The present writ petition along with all pending applications is
 disposed of in these terms. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE
 SEPTEMBER 2, 2020
 dk/dj/R W.P.(C) 3301/2020 Page 37 of 37 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:PRATHIBA M SINGH Signing Date:02.09.2020 12:39