3rd Floor Adarsh Dham Building, Vapi-Daman Roan
Gujarat-396191

APPEARANCE: 1.1 M/s. Balaji Enterprises of Daman used such parts and components
for wrist watches/clocks manufactured by them and exported such final
products under claim of rebate through a merchant exporter, namely.
M/s. Shri Krishna Impex of Ahmedabad. During November, 2003 to
September, 2004, in all 221 rebate claims were lodged by M/s. Balaji
Enterprises, and all rebate claims were sanctioned and paid by Daman
Central Excise authorities by passing regular orders. MSN Enterprises had issued only Central Excise invoices showing sale of
duty paid parts and components of wrist watches/clocks, but no goods
were actually supplied by them; and therefore Cenvat credit was wrongly
taken by M/s. Balaji Enterprises for such paper transactions. Since no
inputs were actually received by M/s. Balaji Enterprises, the manufacture
and export of wrist watches and clocks shown by M/s. Balaji Enterprises
was also on papers, and no goods were actually exported. Therefore,
rebate by M/s, Balaji Enterprises was illegally received. The appellant
being an employee of M/s. Shri Krishna Impex (i.e, the merchant
exporter of Ahmedabad), was liable for penalty under Rule 26 of Central
Excise Rules, 2002. 1.3 The period of dispute involved is November 2003 to September
2004. The show cause notice was issued on 15.02.2007, the original
adjudication order was passed on 30.03.2011 however a subsequent
order-in-original dated 28.02.2022 was again issued after remand of this
Tribunal. The findings against the present appeal which contained in
para 53.4-53.5 is reproduced below: 1.4 Aggrieved by the aforesaid findings and imposition of penalty, the
appellant are before this court. 2. The Learned Advocate for the appellants has raised following legal
and factual propositions. The penalties under Rule 26 of the Central
Excise Rules, is unjustified, unauthorized as there was no proposal for
confiscation of common goods in the show cause notice dated
15.02.2007, nor any confiscation has been ordered by the Commissioner
of any goods while passing his order therefore, the penalty under Rule 26
cannot be imposed. The availability of goods and their confiscation are
sine qua non for penalty. On this proposition, Advocate has relied upon
the following authorities. Shri Vijay Kumar Sharma Vs CCE-Kutch 2025
(7) TMI 1707 - CESTAT Ahmedabad and In Nicholas D'Souza Garage Vs
CCE, Thane reported in 2015 (320) ELT 579 (Tri. Mum). 2.1 In cases where the Revenue alleged that there were no goods but
the manufacturer availed benefits like Cenvat credit or refund or rebate
on export by resorting to paper transactions, then Rule 26 was not
attracted and no penalty thereunder can be imposed on any person. This
is because Rule 26 was not applicable in absence or non-existence of any
goods, which were liable to confiscation. Non-existent goods cannot be 4|Page E/10253/2022

liable for confiscation and hence Rule 26 (and also erstwhile Rule 209A
being a pari- materia) was not applicable for penalty in such cases.
  AIA Engineering Pvt.Ltd. V/s. CCE 2005 (196) ELT 154 (Tri.-
 Mumbai). (Para 9).  Ruby Impex V/s. CCE 2004 (173) ELT 161 (Tri.-Del). (Para 6).
  Kamdeep Marketing Pvt. Ltd. V/s CCE, Indore - 2004 (165) ELT
 2006 (Tri.-Del) (Para 3.2). An employee of a manufacturer working under the instructions of the
firm/owner and who was not personally benefited by any activity of the
manufacturer should not be penalized on the ground that he was the
authorized signatory or that he was looking after the business affairs. An
employee not having any personal gain or personal benefit in the
business of the employer, was not liable for personal penalty for any
unlawful business activities of the employer.  Hitesh Kumar Patel V/s. Commissioner, Mumbai - 2009 (245) ELT
 858 (Tri.-Ahmd.) (Para 2).  R.K. Ispat Udyog V/s. CCE, Raipur - 2007 (211) ELT 460 (Tri.-Del)
 (Para 7). (1) Penalty on any person under Rule 26 can be imposed only
 when the following three conditions were satisfied and findings about
 such conditions having been satisfied were recorded by the
 Adjudicating Authority:- For imposing personal penalty under this provision, the Revenue must
 allege and establish that the person concerned had dealt with the
 goods in what manner (because various activities like acquiring
 possession of, transporting, removing, depositing etc. are referred to
 in the provision); and also that such person dealt with the goods
 though he knew or he had reason to believe that the goods were
 liable to confiscation under the Act or the Rules. But no findings are recorded in the impugned order about the about
 the about referred 3 ingredients of Rule 26 in respect of the appellant. (2) Penalty on any person can be justifiably imposed only by
 recording specific reasons, and by giving specific findings how and
 why the submissions and explanation tendered by such person were 5|Page E/10253/2022

 unacceptable and incorrect. But the only finding by the which were
 supported by documentary evidence about movement Commissioner
 about the appellant's weighty and vital submissions. of goods from
 various suppliers and also the export of such goods as well Central
 Excise officers, is as under in par 53.3 of the impugned order.- The so called case brought out by the investigation was only
 allegations in the show cause notice. The appellant has submitted
 detailed reply and relied on documentary evidence as well as
 deposition of various persons, and therefore the appellant's defence
 and explanation had to be considered by the Commissioner, and
 reasons had to be given for rejecting such defence and explanation.
 Rejection of the appellant's defence only on the basis that the
 appellant's role was brought out by the investigation is a clear error,
 and also a violation of principles of natural justice. (3) After show cause notice dated 15.2.2007 was issued and the
 first adjudication order No.5/MP/Daman/2011 dated 30.3.2011 was
 passed, the appellant's case was remanded back for a fresh
 adjudication for allowing the appellant to file defence reply and submit
 documentary evidence that was received through the RTI route after
 the OIO dated 30.3.2011 was passed. In the de-novo adjudication,
 the appellant has relied upon documents evidencing actual supply of
 goods by M/s. MSN Enterprises to M/s. Balaji Enterprises and also
 documentary evidence evidencing export of the goods manufactured
 by M/s.Balaji. The appellant also relied upon the factual clarifications
 made by Shri Hitesh Mehta (Inspector of Central Excise) and Shri L.R.
 Meena (Superintendent of Central Excise); but the factual position
 emerging from such submissions and evidence is just bypassed and
 ignored by the respondent Commissioner. (4) The gist of the appellant's submission and documents etc. relied
 upon in support of such submissions is as under:- 6|Page E/10253/2022 a) Shri Hitesh Mehta has filed a detailed defense reply dated
 29.9.2010 which is elaborately referred to in para 2.3 spanning from
 page 122 to page 125 of the previous OIO. It is clear from this
 defense reply of the jurisdictional Inspector of Central Excise that
 duty paid inputs were supplied by M/s. MSN, Udaipur to M/s. Balaji
 and such duty paid inputs were actually received in their factory, and
 also that M/s. Balaji has actually used such inputs and components
 for manufacture of final products and such final products were
 exported under supervision of the Range officers. The Revenue's case
 that the transactions between M/s. MSN and M/s. Balaji and also
 export transactions of M/s. Balaji were only on paper was prima facie
 wrong in view of the detailed submissions and explanation tendered
 by the Range Inspector of Central Excise. b) The Divisional Superintendent Shri L.R. Meena has also filed his
 defense reply dated 11.4.2008, which is referred to in para 2.4 of the
 above referred adjudication order, i.e. the previous OIO. Shri Meena
 has stated in this reply that he personally verified and examined the
 export consignment presented before him, along with his Inspector.
 Shri Meena has also confirmed that manufacturing and assembly of
 watches and wall clocks was undertaken by M/s. Balaji in their
 factory, and also by getting such final products made on job work
 basis; while also explaining the process of manufacture as well as job
 work and verification thereof. The table under para 2.6 of the previous OIO referring to various
 evidence and documents brought on record by both these Central
 Excise officers is prepared on the basis of the replies and submissions
 tendered by these officers. From Col.5 of this table in para 2.6 of the
 said OIO, it transpires that the date and purpose of visit by the
 Excise officers are recorded therein with the report of such visit; and
 specific documents, like ARE-1, Central Excise invoices, proforma
 invoices, packing list, shipping bill, bill of lading, mate receipt, bank
 certificate of realization of sale proceeds etc. confirming export of
 goods by M/s. Balaji are also brought on record by these officers. c) A report dated 29.11.2020 rendered by the CBI, EOW-I, New Delhi
 submitted before the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Daman, is
 also brought on record by these Central Excise officers; and this final
 report shows that no concrete and cogent evidence to implicate the
 Central Excise officers in any offence case could be gathered, and
 therefore there was no collusion between the said officers and the
 assessee in of this case. d) In view of the evidence of the Departmental Inspector and the
 Superintendent and also the verification reports received from
 Central Excise officers in charge of Udaipur Division in the State of
 Rajasthan and also the rebate sanctioning orders made by the
 jurisdictional Assistant Commissioner of Daman, it is clear that the
 documents alleged to have been created in fictitious manner were
 actually scrutinized and verified by the Central Excise Officers in-
 charge of the units of M/s. Balaji and M/s. MSN. There is no evidence
 brought on record for establishing that the assessments made by
 these Excise officers as regards the transactions of MSN Enterprise 7|Page E/10253/2022

 and M/s. Balaji were incorrect or fabricated; and therefore, the
 transactions of MSN Eriferprise and M/s Balaji Enterprise could not
 have been alleged to be fictitious straightaway by the Revenue. In
 this view, personal penalty on the appellant for these transaction is
 impermissible and unauthorised. e) Both M/s. MSN Enterprise and M/s. Balaji were manufacturers
 registered with Central Excise authorities, and therefore, the
 transactions of MSN Enterprise and Balaji as regards receiving inputs
 and components, manufacturing goods therefrom and clearance of
 such goods on payment of duties were verified, scrutinized and
 assessed by the jurisdictional Central Excise Officers. There is nothing
 on record to show that any investigation was undertaken with
 Udaipur or Daman Central Excise authorities for genuineness or
 otherwise of the transactions of MSN Enterprise or M/s. Balaji; and
 there is nothing on record showing that the Central Excise Officers in-
 charge of the factory of MSN Enterprise and M/s. Balaji had even
 indicated that no manufacturing activities were undertaken them, or
 that the payment of duties made by MSN Enterprise and M/s. Balaji
 was actually only on papers. Assessment of duties and transactions
 of MSN Enterprise and M/s. Balaji are valid even now, and therefore,
 there is no justification in the finding that the appellant had created
 fictitious documents regarding clearance and delivery of such goods
 for exaggerating price. f) Another aspect which arises in view of the evidence of these two
 officers of Central Excise and Customs is whether exports of duty
 paid goods were made by M/s. Balaji: and whether 221 rebate claims
 sanctioned by the jurisdictional Assistant Commissioner by passing
 regular orders and consequent payment of rebate claims could be
 considered to be fake and only paper transaction? If the transactions
 were only on paper, then the evidence of the Inspector and
 Superintendent of Central Excise & Customs and also the rebate
 sanctioning orders made by the jurisdictional Assistant Commissioner
 could not have been accepted by the department. But the evidence of
 Shri Hitesh Mehta and Shri L.R. Meena is believed and passing ΟΙΟ
 by the while Commissioner accepted No.5/MP/Daman/2011 dated
 30.03.2011, and accordingly proposal for imposing penalty on these
 two officers has been dropped. This order has also been accepted by
 the department, and therefore it also stands accepted that the
 evidence, explanation and submissions of these two officers were
 truthful and genuine. In this view, penalty on the appellant for these
 transactions and these documents is impermissible and unauthorised. g) When the main allegation about the rebate claims of M/s, Balaji
 being wrongful and was prima facie not sustainable or justified in
 view of the evidence of the Range and Divisional officers of Central
 Excise and Customs, the order of penalty on the appellant in the
 same case is also not justified nor authorised. (5) Evidence of Witnesses: - In reply to question-3, Shri Jignesh Shah has clarified that M/s.
 Fenny Impex was exclusively managed by its sole proprietor Mr.
 Vijay Punjabi, and he was the sole signatory in the bank accounts. - In reply to question-4, Shri Shah has explained the business
 activities of M/s. Shree Krishna Impex; and in answer to question-5,
 he has explained the business activities of M/s. MSN. (The appellants
 involvement is not shown in any of these two firms by Shri Jignesh
 Shah, because the appellant was actually not involved in the
 business affairs of M/s. Shree Krishna Impex nor in other firms like
 M/s.Fenny Impex and M/s. MSN Enterprises.) - In reply to question-6, Shri Shah has explained the business
 activities etc. of M/s. Balaji Enterprises, and here also the appellant's
 involvement is not shown because the appellant was not at all
 involved in the affairs of M/s. Balaji.  In answer to question-10, Shri Shah has clarified that he knew
 the appellant as General Manager of M/s. Shre Krishna Impex
 at the relevant time, and that the appellant had no role to play
 in M/s. Fenny or for Mr. Vijay Punjabi. He has also confirmed
 that the appellant visited the factory of M/s. Fenny Impex two
 times as General Manager of M/s. Shree Krishna Impex and
 Mr. Om Prakash Punjabi accompanied the appellant on both
 the occasions.  In answer to question-12, he has clarified that the appellant
 was not involved in assembling of analogue and digital
 watches; and that instructions or orders or directions were
 never taken from me for such manufacturing and assembling
 activities. He has also explained that the appellant had never
 taken away any files of M/s. Fenny Impex, and all the job work
 challan files and all the invoice files were in the custody of
 Vijay Punjabi. He has also explained that business affairs of
 M/s. Fenny Impex were looked after by Shri Vijay Punjabi only.
 He has confirmed that he never came across any comment by
 anyone about the appellants involvement in procurement of
 raw materials nor about the appellants involvement in the
 business affairs of M/s. Fenny Impex. 2.2 As regards preparing invoices and other documents for M/s.
 Shree Krishna Impex, he has clarified that all invoices were prepared
 by Shri Vijay Punjabi and also by him on behalf of M/s. Fenny
 Impex.  A perusal of deposition of Shri Jignesh Shah on 22.10.2021 shows
 that statement of Shri Vijay Punjabi recorded by the DGCEI officers 9|Page E/10253/2022

 way back on 2.12.2004 is explained in details by Shri Shah. All the
 false claims of Shri Vijay Punjabi in the said statement about
 involvement of any other persons, including the appellant, are
 explained to be incorrect and untrue by Shri Shah; and conduct of
 business affairs by Shri Vijay Punjabi are explained in detail during
 his examination.  Another statement of Shri Vijay Punjabi recorded on 24.11.2004
 was also shown to Shri Jignesh Shah during his examination on
 22.10.2021, and in answer to question-13, Shri Shah has again
 explained that business affairs of M/s.Fenny Impex were looked
 after and conducted by Shri Punjabi, and not by the appellant. He
 has again explained that only two meetings were attended by the
 appellant when other responsible persons of Fenny Impex and
 other firms were also present, and that he had not come across
 any instructions etc. from the appellant nor about the appellants
 involvement in the activities which were actually conducted by Shri
 Vijay Punjabi. Shri Shah has confirmed that finances and materials
 as well as manufacturing were tightly controlled by Shri Vijay
 Punjabi. b) Shri Ved Prakash Wadhwani of M/s. MSN, Udaipur, was examined
 on 22.10.2021 when he explained business activities of M/s. MSN in
 answer to question-3, and he has also explained and confirmed
 about business activities of M/s. Shree Krishna Impex being a
 proprietary firm of Shri Om Prakash Punjabi, and also his younger
 brother Mr. Vijay Punjabi.  In answer to questions 9 and 11, Shri Wadhwani has clarified that
 business transactions were done under the plan of Shri Om
 Prakash Punjabi, and the appellants name (i.e. name of Venkat R.
 Chari) was introduced during his statement proceedings on
 9.11.2004 orily because Shri Wadhwani was threatened of
 arresting his female family members. He has clarified that the
 appellant was not involved in the transactions of firms of Shri
 Punjabi.  In answer to question-13, Shri Wadhwani has clarified that the
 appellant as General Manager of M/s. Shree Krishna Impex, visited
 his factory at Udaipur only once, and that the appellant had no
 involvement in the business affairs of M/s. MSN at any time. He
 has also clarified that he had never heard about the appellants
 involvement in the business of Shri Om Prakash Punjabi, or Mr.
 Vijay Punjabi; and no such comments etc. about the appellants
 involvement were ever made by any of the persons concerned with
 the business affairs of Shri Om Prakash Punjab and Shri Vijay
 Punjabi. c) On 25.10.2021, one Shri Deepak Kumar H. Sorathia, Proprietor of
 M/s. Aditya Metals, Rajkot, was examined when he has clarified that
 he had no business transactions with M/s. MSN Enterprises, and that
 he was not aware about any such firm. d) One Shri Rajubhai (Rajeshbhai) Vajariya of M/s. Vinayak Time,
 Morbi, has clarified on 25.10.2021 that his firm supplied wall clocks
 10 | P a g e E/10253/2022

 to M/s. Fenny Impex and M/s. Shree Krishna Impex, and one Mr.
 Gaganbhai used to come and meet him for giving instructions for
 purchasing wall clocks, and he did not know any Mr. Venkat R. Chari
 and had never met him. e) During examination on 26.10.2021, one Shri Vinod Vasantlal
 Agrawal, Proprietor of M/s. Time Product, Mumbai, has clarified that
 one Mr. Punjabi used to come to take the goods from their firm, and
 he had never met any Mr. Wadhwani or Mr. Venkat Chari. f) On 16.10.2021, during his examination, one Shri Rajeev Kumar
 Mittal of Ahmedabad has clarified that he only used to communicate
 with Shri Subhash Arora for the transactions of M/s. Shre Krishna
 Impex. g) One Shri Nalin A. Patel, partner of M/s. Patel Somabhai Ramdas
 has deposed on 26.10.2021 that he had never met Mr. Venkat Chari,
 and that Mr. Om Prakash Punjabi introduced someone on phone as
 Mr. Venkat Chari, but he had never met him face to face. He has
 also confirmed that the services were provided by him because he
 knew Mr. Om Punjabi. h) One Shri Anil Shyamlal Agarwal, Director of M/s, Sanskrit Vitta
 Pvt. Ltd. of Ahmedabad, was examined on 26.10.2021 when he has
 deposed that he did not know or met any Mr. Venkat Chari. i) On 15.11.2021, one Shri Mavjibhai K. Patel was examined, when
 he clarified that he was an employee in M/s. Jay Star Watch. Rajkot.
 He has confirmed that his firm sold their goods to Shri Vijay Punjabi
 of M/s. Fenny Impex, and that he had never met Mr. Venkat Chari
 nor done any business with him. j) One Shri Ghanshyam B. Thoriya was examined on 15.11.2021
 when he has confirmed that he had never met Mr. Venkat Chari nor
 done any business with him. k) On 15.11.2021. Shri Shailesh B. Patel was also examined when
 he confirmed that he had not supplied any goods or parts to Mr.
 Punjabi or Mr. Venkat Chari, and that he did not know any persons
 named Mr. Venkat Chari or Mr. Jignesh Shah; nor had he met any of
 them. The above referred depositions show that the appellant was not
 involved in business transactions nor in commercial affairs of M/s.
 Fenny Impex or M/s. Balaji or even M/s. MSN Enterprises. The
 allegations levelled in the show cause notice that the appellant had
 planned everything and Shri Om Prakash Punjabi had obtained
 rebate under the appellant's planning was thus wrong, and explained
 away in the denovo adjudication. All the persons who have done
 business with M/s. Fenny Impex and M/s. Balaji have stated that
 they were getting instructions and orders and payments from
 members of Punjabi family; and they have also clarified that many
 of them did not even know the appellant and that the appellant had
 never given any instructions, orders etc. for or on behalf of M/s.
 Fenny Impex or M/s. Balaji. 6) True Factual Position: 11 | P a g e E/10253/2022

 From the above referred clarifications of the witnesses, the
 clarifications made by the range and divisional officers during
 adjudication and the documentary evidence about movement and
 export of various goods, the following factual position has emerged
 on record of this case:- Balaji, nor has the appellant in any manner created documents like
 ARE-1 for M/s. Balaji for fake exports, (iv) that the appellant has not
 been involved in any decision making process in respect of M/s.
 Shree Krishna, nor in giving any instructions and directions to any
 persons for supplying materials or procuring goods for M/s. Balaji, (v) that the appellant has not made any arrangements for
 procurement of invoices (without any corresponding goods) from
 any Firms like M/s. MSN or others, (vi) that the appellant was not
 aware that rebate claims were made by M/s. Balaji without actually
 exporting duty paid goods, (vii) that the appellant always held a
 genuine and bonafide belief that transactions of all parties involved
 in this case (i.e. M/s. Balaji, M/s.Shree Krishna Impex, M/s. MSN
 etc.) were genuine and lawful because the competent Central Excise
 and Customs officers have supervised and verified all such
 transactions from time to time, (viii) that the appellant always held a
 genuine and bonafide belief that the exports made by the firm of
 Shri Om Prakash Punjabi were genuine and lawful because the
 jurisdictional Range and Divisional officers have verified such exports
 and reported their genuineness based on which regular orders
 sanctioning rebate were made by the jurisdictional Assistant
 Commissioner; (ix) that the appellant has not dealt with any
 excisable goods with knowledge or reason to believe that such goods
 were liable to confiscation, and (x) that the appellant has acted only
 as an employee for the appellants employer Shri Punjabi and the
 appellant never had any personal interest or gain in the business
 affairs of the appellants employer, except the remuneration paid to
 the appellant as salary. The adjudicating authority has however just
 discarded these valuable points and the factual position which
 emerged during the denovo adjudication; and therefore penalty
 imposed on the appellant is wholly erroneous and unauthorised. 7) The above factual errors would call for the penalty imposed on
 the appellant being quashed and set aside because it is clear from
 the above position that the appellant has not dealt with any goods
 which were liable for confiscation; no goods were involved in the
 present case which were liable for confiscation under the CE Act or
 CE Rules; it is not shown by the Commissioner how (i.e. in what
 manner) the appellant dealt with any goods liable for confiscation;
 and it is also not established in this case that the appellant knew or
 had reason to believe that any goods were liable for confiscation and
 still he dealt with such goods. In absence of any specific findings on these requirements of Rule 26
 and in view of the above referred evidence, the imposition of penalty
 on the appellant is wholly illegal and liable to be set aside.
 12 | P a g e E/10253/2022 3. The Authorised Representative of the department in rebuttal has
stated as follows and justified the order of the adjudicating authority
passed on the following terms.  Shri Venkat R. Chari was General Manager of Ms. Shree Krishna
 Impex, a merchant exporter firm owned by Shri Om Prakash
 Punjabi.  The DGCEI investigation revealed a complex fraud scheme
 involving fraudulent availment of CENVAT credit and claiming
 illegal rebate of central excise duty.  Ms. MSN Enterprises (Udaipur) allegedly issued fake invoices
 showing duty payment for goods not actually manufactured or
 supplied.  These fake credits were passed on to Ms. Balaji Enterprises
 (Daman), which used them to claim rebates after exporting goods
 via Ms. Shree Krishna Impex.  The goods exported were of inferior quality assembled locally from
 non-duty-paid inputs. 3.1 The scheme involved creating a paper trail of manufacture,
clearance, and export to avail huge illicit rebates totaling crores of
rupees. Officials and employees of involved firms, including Shri Venkat
R. Chari, were penalized for their roles. The adjudicating authority
rejected the claim of mere employment, noting his control over accounts,
role as a mandated signatory, and prior association with fraudulent
entities, thus making him liable under Rule 26 penalty. The weight of
cross-examination was discounted due to common legal representation
and procedural issues, considered insufficient to negate overwhelming
documentary and testimonial evidence. 3.2 The adjudicating authority's findings firmly establish Shri Venkat R.
Chari's active involvement in the fraudulent rebate scheme, rejecting his
claim of being a mere employee without personal involvement. Evidence
such as management of bank accounts, signing fake invoices, and
orchestrating cross-bearer cheque transactions demonstrates his pivotal
role. His defense citing lack of knowledge about goods liable for
confiscation and immunity as an employee was legally considered but
factually refuted. The penalty under Rule 26 is sustainable given his
managerial control and complicity. Cross-examinations favoring him were
discounted due to procedural issues and overwhelming documentary
evidence. Overall, the penalty and findings are justified and should be
upheld as they reflect his substantial participation in defrauding
government revenue. 13 | P a g e E/10253/2022 4. This court has gone through relevant contentions raised by either
side and would like to deal with the legal issue as to whether Rule 26
which is reproduced below, allowed the penalty to be liable on a person
under Rule 26 with no Show Cause Notice was proposed for confiscation
of goods nor any confiscation was done nor penalty imposed. 4.1 This court finds that the matter is no more res-integra and has
been decided by the Division Bench of this court as reported 2025 (7)
TMI 1707 wherein para 5.3-5.4 reproduced below, deals with the scope
of Ruling 26 in similar situations. "5.3 Coming to the role of the present appellants vis-à-vis legal position, we find that the
 adjudicating authority has imposed penalty on both the appellants under Rule 26 of the Central
 Excise Rules, 2002 which is reproduced as under:- 14 | P a g e E/10253/2022

 5.4 During arguments, the learned Advocate pleaded that the department has not proposed
 confiscation of the impugned goods and therefore, the appellants cannot be penalised under
 Rule 26(1) of the Central Excise Rules, 2002. Also, Rule 26(2) of the Central Excise Rules is not
 applicable as the said rule covers individuals and not the director of the company. We agree
 with the argument of the learned Advocate that the show cause notice does not propose
 confiscation of the impugned goods and therefore, Rule 26(1) is not attracted in this case for
 imposing penalty on the appellants. For imposing penalty under Rule 26(2), essential ingredients
 are that the person should have issued excise duty invoice without delivery of goods specified
 therein or abets in making such invoice; or any other documents or abets in making such
 document on the basis of which the user of said invoice or document is likely to take or has
 taken any ineligible benefit under the Act or the rules made thereunder like Cenvat credit or
 refund etc. We find that the Learned Adjudicating Authority has not elaborated as to how the
 present appellants fall under the criteria of Rule 26(2) for imposing penalty. Even, the
 statements of Shri Vijay Kumar Sharma and Shri Vinod Kashyap do not bring out their role in
 issuance of invoices or abetting in issuance of invoices/documents to facilitate the user of such
 invoices/documents to get ineligible benefits. Therefore, agreeing with the contention, we allow
 both the appeals and set aside penalty imposed on the appellants. The impugned order is
 modified to the above extent." 4.2 The Rule 26 prior to amendment in 2007 was worded as below: Therefore the analysis in the aforesaid decision of Vijay Kumar Sharma
(cited supra) will equally apply to the old and the amended Rule 26.
Further this court also finds that the proposition analysis in the Vijay K.
Sharma is also fortified by the decision of Nicholas D'Souza Garage Vs
CCE Thane as reported in 2015 (32) ELT 579 (Tri. Mumbai) in which
relevant para 15 also lays down same proposition. Similar findings have
been recorded in Para 9 of decision as reported in 2006 (195) ELT 154
(Tri. Mum.) in AIA Engineering Private Limited vs Commissioner of
Central Excise, Ahmedabad-II , same is reproduced below: 4.3 Also to uphold malicious intent on the part of an employee, some
pecuniary benefit is required to be exhibited beyond his salary or salary
 15 | P a g e E/10253/2022

should be shown beyond his work qualifications. Further testimonial
evidence cannot be relied upon if relied during cross examination. In
support para 38 of 2016 (332) ELT 793 in case of CCE Delhi vs Vishnu &
Co. (P) Ltd. is being relied upon as reproduced below: 4.4 The corroboration vindicating the employee-appellants involvement
with knowledge of malfeasance was specifically required in this case. 5. In view of the foregoing, this court following the aforesaid decisions
is inclined to provide relief in the instant case as there is no confiscation
of goods has taken place and therefore, Rule 26 would not have been
applied. Without going into other aspects of the case as has been
argued by the appellants, this court is of the view that the appellant is
entitled to relief on this count only. Same is granted. Appeal allowed.
Penalty on the present appellant is set aside. (Order pronounced in the open court on __17.11.2025)

 (SOMESH ARORA)
 MEMBER (JUDICIAL)

Neha