SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Digital Privacy and the need for Indian Smartphone Manufacturers to target this niche
DATE: 2020-10-14
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/jav39y/digital_privacy_and_the_need_for_indian/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is something I have spent a lot of time thinking about and I was wondering if there are others out there who might be thinking about the same.

In today's digital age, privacy and data is everything; period. Our parents have no idea what it means and I feel utterly guilty to have introduced Xiaomi and Realme into private spaces some years ago. I have seen first hand how my parents and loved ones are being manipulated by these phones (which they use for 6 hours SOT or more in pandemic times). I corrected my mistake, by gifting a Nokia to my 80 year old Grandmother as her first smartphone to enjoy video calls with her great-grand daughter, and that is when I felt I was responsible for my entire family's digital presence in today's age. Old people are more prone to fall for false advertising and fake news, as already established. No Ads, No useless prompts, simply no clutter. Every notification for my grandmother becomes a concern and Nokia thankfully keeps its brand promise alive - Ever Reliable.

I can feel the need for Privacy focused phones in the &lt;10k and &lt;20k segments as well. There aren't compelling alternatives, primarily because of the spec-war. Consumers are paying for specs with their data and that realization will probably dawn over the population over the next decade, but by then it might be too late.

As of today, the only brands I would trust would be Apple, Google and Nokia. Primarily because they have accountability and the EU keeps cracking down on them time and again.

Asus, Infinix and other Taiwanese/HK companies have an uphill battle as they are perceived as Chinese and will have to re-brand themselves as independent of China. Until then, they are part of the spectrum.

Indian Manufacturers such as Micromax (I was a big fan, especially during the Yu Yureka period and its bold mis-adventure with CyanogenMod, and hopping too early onto the Android One Platform before it matured) have the potential to fill in this GAP.

CyanogenMod gave way to Lineage and Oneplus, while Android One is now a rising force thanks to Nokia. Because Nokia still caters primarily to EU, it always keeps Indian users wanting for more.

With Pixels and iPhones breaching the &lt;30k market and given their unlikeliness in entering budget segments directly, it's the perfect time for local manufacturers to target &lt;10k and &lt;20k segments with the same philosophy as Google and Apple -

* Be software centric - Since we don't have indigenous software to challenge the behemoths, it seems best to adopt Android One and introduce specifically tailored solutions for the populace. It's all about software, the cloud and the integrations that are possible with dozens of devices. Optimized software lasts longer, and improves with updates, not deteriorates as is the case with brands that keep rolling out software that hogs resources.
* Be simple, yet useful. 4 Cameras are confusing, it's meant for younger folks. Most folks just need one good camera and not the best one. In a group setting someone always has a good camera, and people take shots and share. So a simple camera with much more deeper integrations with sharing, like Google Photos, can go a long way. Make an album, add collaborators and select faces - that's all you need to share photos with family, friends and loved ones. All backed up and distributed. and automatically updated. We take so many photos but don't enjoy them anymore, Google Photos allows me to enjoy the photos I take.
* Give the essentials - A decent battery, a headphone jack and some form of water resistance.
* Smartphones are passe, ecosystems are in. Smartphone manufacturers need to diversify into smart home products as well, or simply ensure their phones work best with Google Home products. Then take the time and come up with radically new home products that serve the Indian consumer's interest.

I really hope this comes true, because not everyone can afford a Pixel or iPhone. In the meantime, I'm moving my family back to Nokia, the brand a middle class Indian can trust.