was allowed to continue for a

 period of more than three years, he

 could not have been terminated from the

 service on account of his alleged

 unsatisfactory work during the period

 of probation. (ii) The simplicitor order of termination of

 the service of the petitioner, on

 piercing the veil would establish that

 it was actuated by malice of respondent

 no.4 and was based on allegation

 against him. (iii) The service of the petitioner was

 wholly satisfactory and in fact there

 was no adverse remark against him in

 the original period of probation of two

 years. On the other hand, Mr. J.P. Karn,

learned counsel for the Navodaya Vidyalaya

Sangathan would submit that the advertisement

as also the order of appointment itself had

envisaged the continuation of the petitioner

on probation initially for two years and

extendable by another period of one year as

also removal from service on account of

unsatisfactory performance in the period of 4 probation. In that context, he would refer to

the fact that at least there were two clear

communications made to the petitioner on

21.12.1995 and 2.1.1996 intimating that the

working of the petitioner within the period

of probation was not satisfactory and if the

petitioner did not improve his working, his

service may not be confirmed in Navodaya

Vidyalaya Samiti. He has further submitted

that the order of termination of the

petitioner has to be read for finding out

whether there was any motive or foundation by

way of punishment in passing such order. He

would, therefore, rely on the content of the

order to show that it was an order of

termination simpliciter on account of the

unsatisfactory service of the petitioner in

the period of probation. He has also

submitted that the plea of malafide in the

present case is not at all made out. The first and core issue in this

writ application is to decide as with regard

to the challenge of the petitioner to the

order of termination which is basically a

question of fact. It is not in doubt that the

appointment of the petitioner was made 5 pursuant to an advertisement and further

selection. The petitioner at that point of

time was working as a teacher in Kendriya

Vidyalaya and having found himself to be

eligible had filed his candidature. The

advertisement in fact published in the

Employment News of 23-29 January 1993 had

itself contained a condition that the

selected candidate will be appointed

initially on probation for a period of two

years extendable for another one year

depending upon the performance, which reads

as below:- It is not in doubt that in terms of

the aforementioned appointment letter, the

petitioner had joined the Navodaya Vidyalaya

only on 17.9.1993 and during continuation of

his probation period, he was communicated

displeasure as with regard to his working by

the Deputy Director (Pers.) vide his letter

dated 21.12.1995 (Annexure-17), which reads

as follows:- Followed by this communication,

there was there was another information given

to the petitioner through a letter dated

2.1.1996 that the case of the petitioner for

his confirmation was considered and it was

found by the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti that

he had failed to complete his period of

probation successfully. The period of

probation of the petitioner was accordingly

extended for a further period up to 30.6.1996

and it was also made clear that if there was

no improvement in his performance during the

extended period of probation, his service

could be terminated at the end of extended

period. Thee is also on record a

communication dated 9.9.1996 of the Deputy 8 Director which also goes to show that the

petitioner's working as a Principal was found

to be wholly unsatisfactory and to elaborate

this aspect, it would be also relevant to

quote the said communication, which reads as

below:- Before the petitioner could have

submitted his explanation to the aforesaid

letter dated 2.1.1996 his probation was again

extended for the period up to 31.12.1996 by 11 letter dated 13.9.1996 and after the

petitioner had submitted his explanation, the

authority had gone to consider that as he was

not found fit for confirmation and his

services on completion of extended period of

probation would stand terminated. In the opinion of this Court, the

petitioner having been already informed at

least on three occasions as with regard to

his unsatisfactory working cannot complain

that there was no opportunity given to him to

improve his performance or that the reasons

which came with regard to his unsatisfactory

working was a bolt out of the blue. Once this

aspect becomes clear, the issue of the

petitioner alleging violation of the terms of

the contract either in the advertisement or

in the appointment letter merely because the

petitioner could continue in probation 21

days beyond the extended period can have no

relevance in the eyes of law. There was no

deeming clause or a clause in the appointment

letter or in the rule of the Navodaya

Vidyalaya that the moment a person would be

able to cross the limit of three years, he

would be deemed to be automatically confirmed 12 and in fact, there being no such concept of

deemed confirmation even otherwise in service

jurisprudence, the petitioner had to abide by

the decision of the authority with regard to

the evaluation of his service during the

period of probation for his getting his order

of confirmation. Once this aspect becomes

clear that merely because the petitioner was

allowed to continue for a period of 21 days

beyond the extended period of probation of

three months as per the date of appointment,

that will not make any difference in the

impugned order termination of his service

which has been passed primarily on account of

the fact that his services during the period

of probation were not satisfactory. The aspect that the order of

termination is in the form of punishment is

again wholly unsustainable. The relevant part

of the impugned order of the petitioner dated

21.1.1997 reads as follows:- Such order on the face of record

cannot be said to be influenced by any

allegation against the petitioner. It is true

that while evaluating the performance of the

petitioner, certain displeasure was

communicated to him with regard to his lack

of working ability but then they have

definitely not weighed in absence of its

being made foundation in impugned order and

therefore, the impugned order cannot be said

to be stigmatic so as to make it bad in the

eyes of law. This aspect of the matter in

fact stands settled by the judgment of the

Apex Court in the case of State of Maharashtra

Vs. Veerappa R. Saboji & Anr. reported in AIR

1980 SC 42 wherein the test of termination of

a probationer or temporary Government servant

has been laid down in the following words:- In a concurring view, it was also

held that :- Applying the aforesaid test, this

Court will have no difficulty in holding that

the order of termination is not by way of

stigma or is based on any foundation by way

of punishment. The last submission of the counsel

for the petitioner as with regard to malafide

of the respondent no.4 has to be only noted

for its being rejected. Quite often, it has

been said that the plea of malafide is a plea

of loosing litigant. In the present case, the

only paragraph with regard to the malafide as

pointed out by the petitioner in this writ

application is paragraph no. 29, which reads

as below:-