Second Appeal No. CIC/RBIND/A/2024/638630 1. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 16.04.2024 seeking information on
the following points: 1.2. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 21.05.2024. The FAA vide order dated 16.07.2024 upheld the reply given
by the CPIO. 1.3. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated 30.08.2024. Second Appeal No. CIC/RBIND/A/2024/625258 2. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 20.02.2024 seeking information on
the following points: Second Appeal No. CIC/RBIND/A/2024/624347 3. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 19.03.2024 seeking information on
the following points: 551, Byculla Quarters: 5. The items mentioned in the query No. 4 have been found on March 26, 2024." 3.2. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 19.04.2024. The FAA vide order dated 31.05.2024 upheld the reply given
by the CPIO. 3.3. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated 09.06.2024. Second Appeal No. CIC/RBIND/A/2024/615823 4. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 29.01.2024 seeking information on
the following points: If movement report for all these days is not available on the Bank's employee
 movement tracking systems, then the report should be provided for those days for
 which it is available. All such reports should be preserved permanently pending
 final disposal of all disputes, court cases and police investigation regarding the
 massive discrepancies in the inventory list Failure to preserve the employee
 movement report will amount to deliberate destruction of evidence. 4. CCTV footage of entry/exit/movements at RBI office premises and at RBI
 residential premises during the period 26-12-2023 to 29-01-2024 in respect of all
 the RBI officials who had entered the Flat No J-551 at Byculla on 30- 12-2023. If
 the entire CCTV footage cannot be provided to me immediately, then at least the Page 7 of 30 same should be preserved permanently pending final disposal of all disputes, court
 cases and police investigation regarding the massive discrepancies in the
 inventory list. Failure to preserve the CCTV footage as requested will amount to
 deliberate destruction of evidence. 5. Whether any official of state police department or any other law enforcement
 agency was present at the Flat No J-551 when the purported eviction took place
 on 30-12-2023. (YES / NO)..." etc.

4.1. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 14.02.2024 and the same is reproduced as
under :- Second Appeal No. CIC/RBIND/A/2024/615620 5. The Appellant filed an RTI application dated 30.01.2024 seeking information on
the following points: Block building inside RBI Staff Quarters, Byculla, Mumbai Central during the
 period 26-12-2023 to 30-01-2024. 3. CCTV camera footage showing entry/exit/movement of all persons at the main
 door of Flat No J-551 inside RBI Staff Quarters, Byculla, Mumbai Central during
 the period 26-12-2023 to 30-01-2024." 5.1. The CPIO replied vide letter dated 14.02.2024 and the same is reproduced as
under :- Please refer to following observations of the CIC in M N.N.Kalia vs. PIO,
 University of Delhi CIC/SG /C/ 2009/ 001169/4696 dated 03.09.2009: 5.2. Dissatisfied with the response received from the CPIO, the Appellant filed a First
Appeal dated 18.02.2024. The FAA vide order dated 18.03.2024 upheld the reply given
by the CPIO. 5.3. Aggrieved with the FAA's order, the Appellant approached the Commission with
the instant Second Appeal dated 14.04.2024. Hearing Proceedings & Decision Page 10 of 30 6. The Appellant was present during the hearing through video conference and on
behalf of the Respondent, Mugunthan Sadagopan, GM & CPIO attended the hearing
through video conference. 7. The Appellant was informed that his cases under reference will be heard in a
cumulative manner as these relate to the same subject matter and similar grounds of
appeal. The written submissions filed by the Appellant in each of these cases were taken
on record and it was inquired if the Appellant has any additional grounds to state. The
Appellant responded by stating that his written submissions are self-contained, however
sought to add that the Respondent has provided all partial replies and denied the
information without justification. It was also emphasized that the CPIO has a conflict of
interest and seeks to cover up various corrupt practices that were followed by the bank
with respect to the disciplinary case executed against him. 8. The Respondent refuted all the allegations of the Appellant and alleged it to be
unsubstantiated and baseless. It was further submitted that the replies provided in each of
these cases are being reiterated and it was alleged that the Appellant seems to develop
some or the other allegation against every new designated bank official and it is difficult
to navigate through the umpteen number of similar RTI Applications being filed by him
that runs into 100 in number so far and about 50 odd First Appeal(s). 9. The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of these cases,
observes at the outset that the manner in which the information has been sought for in
these RTI Applications or the cumbersome nature of these RTI queries read with the
amplitude of the dissatisfaction narrated by the Appellant through his second appeal and
written submissions largely indicate that access to information is not the concern here but
channelizing and vindicating certain grievances is the underlying cause. Most of these
RTI queries do not conform to Section 2(f) of the RTI Act as these are based on Page 11 of 30 hypothesis, conjecture and seek answers or justifications under the garb of seeking
information. Further, the contents of the written submissions filed in these cases reveal a
perpetual and persistent vengeance being harbored by the Appellant, particularly against
the CPIO and even in parts against CIC and the case disposal mechanism of the benches
who have so far dealt with his appeals. A bare perusal of some of these contents as reproduced hereunder will lend clarity
to the level of labored angst the Appellant appears to be harboring without even a tenable
ground of dissatisfaction except where he believes the information should not have been
denied under Section 8(1)(j) & 8(1)(g) of the RTI Act. It may be noted that the below-
mentioned contents are reproduced from one of these second appeal(s) viz. Second
Appeal No. CIC/RBIND/A/2024/615620 as a random selection since the contents are
cyclostyled to this extent except for changes in numbering of paragraphs etc.

 "2. Instead of furnishing the requested information, CPIO Shri Mugunthan in his submission
has brazenly tried to defame me maliciously, besides making loads of false misleading statements and
furnishing unnecessary details which are not relevant to the information sought. His action is a brazen
attempt to mislead Hon'ble CIC by suppressing his own blatant falsehood and the rampant frauds,
malpractices and criminal activities of his friends in RBI Central Office as under :- 3. Sabotage of CIC Hearing by RBI CPIO :- When I immediately asked the NIC staff, they informed me that RBI had disconnected the VC. When I
enquired whether such incident had happened before, NIC staff said no it was the first instance and that
they were absolutely shocked that RBI could do such a thing. b) After the above hearing CIC passed a bizarre wrong order dated 22-11-2024 stating that
CCTV footage had been provided to the applicant (see Exhibit-1). This contradicts CPIO's own reply
dated 30-05-2023 in which he himself had admitted that CCTV footage had not been provided (see
Exhibit-2). c) The above incident clearly show that RBI officers are manipulating the drafting CIC
decisions. Since RBI officers are fraudulently disconnecting the VC during hearing, the IC is unable to
verify the facts and is forced to sign whatever draft decision is being put up to her. d) That the above is not a one-off incident is borne by the fact that at the previous CIC hearing
at NIC Mumbai on 13-10-2023 also the said CPIO Shri Mugunthan and his colleague Shri Praveen
Kumar had done the same trick by disabling VC. As a result the then IC Ms Saroj Punhani had also
passed a wrong order. e) There have been several social media posts alleging that RBI officers are manipulating CIC
decisions by offering hospitality to Information Commissioners at posh hotels (see Exhibit-3) which is
prima facie found true from RTI queries. This needs serious investigation. f) Such manipulation and sabotage of CIC decisions by corrupt RBI officials is promoting false
records in public domain. In fact, all the CIC decisions in my recent appeal cases contain factually
wrong statements, which is only damaging the credibility of CIC 4. Bizarre Arguments of CPIO / FAA to Deny Information :- xxx h) In para 7 of his submissions the CPIO has bizarrely argued that the Appellant's appeal is in
the nature of grievance, although Appellant has sought specific information in his appeal. CPIO is
conveniently forgetting that all appeals naturally contain grievance against the violation of RTI Act by
CPIO and FAA! i) In para 11 of his submissions the CPIO has ridiculously complained to CIC that Appellant is
uploading the information obtained under RTI on social media platforms. However CPIO has failed to
furnish any explanation as to why information obtained under RTI from public information officer
cannot be shared on public platforms! j) In para 14 of his submissions the CPIO has tried to defend himself by arguing that his actions
deserved protection under section 21 of RTI Act being in good faith. However the evidences furnished in
para 5, 9, 10, 11 below clearly show that the CPIO's has acted with malicious mala fide intention and
not in good faith. 5. False / Misleading Statement to Deny Information a) In para 9 of his submission the CPIO has stated that Appellant had informed the Bank on 21-
12-2023 that he had preferred an appeal against eviction but did not provide copy of the appeal. The
fact is that RBI Estate Officer did not contact the Appellant in the matter although Appellant had
furnished his mobile number and requested Estate Officer in case of any urgency or any information
required. Rather, immediately on receiving the Appellant's letter dated 21-12.2023 on 27- 12-2023 the
Estate Officer hastily issued an order the very next day to carry out the eviction. In fact, the Estate
Officer in his order dated 28-12-2023 has directed his staff not to allow the Appellant inside RBI
premises in future. This proves the malicious intention of the whole team behind this act. b) In para 9 of his submissions dated 25-03-2025 to CIC, the CPIO has made a false misleading
statement that after his eviction the Appellant did not contact the caretaker, but rather his wife
Suvashree Pradhan sent a letter dated 30-01- 2024 addressed to RBI Estate Officer. However, the fact Page 14 of 30 is that the letter dated 30-01-2024 to RBI Estate Officer was written by the Appellant Tapan Kumar
Pradhan and not by his wife Suvashree Pradhan (see Exhibit-4). For CIC's perusal copy of Appellant's
letter is furnished as Exhibit-5. Therefore CPIO is obviously misleading Hon'ble CIC with ulterior
motives. c) In para 11 of his submission, the CPIO has made a false statement that he has provided all
the information requested by the Appellant. This is disproved by the fact that none of the information
sought in the instant case was provided by CPIO. In fact the CPIO and FAA have deliberately failed to
provide vital CCTV footage requested by the Appellant in each of the four occasions when he requested
such CCTV footage. 6. Information Sought is in Public Interest

 a. Appellant is a member of the public, and the information sought by him pertains to his
valuable goods, documents and cash stolen / misappropriated in connivance with unscrupulous RBI
officials. b. Furnishing the requested information with help the Appellant in providing valuable inputs to
the court and law enforcement agencies investigating the matter for nabbing of the culprits and
recovery of stolen goods. c. If the information is suppressed, it will only encourage other miscreants, including
unscrupulous RBI officials, to engage in similar criminal activities in future. 7. Ulterior Motive in Denying Information a) CPIO Shri Sadagoban Mugunthan is a batch mate and close friend of the RBI Estate Officer
who unlawfully evicted the Appellant when the latter's appeal was still pending. Therefore CPIO has
obvious intention of protecting his friend. b) Appellant in his previous appeals to CIC had furnished details of the brazen malpractices of
CPIO Shri Mugunthan. Therefore he has obvious vested interest in painting the Appellant in poor light. 8. CPIO's Conflict of Interest :- 9. Defamation of Appellant by CPIO :- However CPIO had failed to provide CCTV footage of the Appellant's alleged misconduct leading to Page 16 of 30 the false charge sheet, and thereafter sabotaged the CIC hearing on 20-11-2024 as detailed in para 3
above. In fact, CPIO is suppressing the fact that Appellant was fraudulently dismissed from service
primarily due to the malicious actions of the CPIO Shri Mugunthan himself as evidenced in para 10
below. The Appellant has lodged writ petition before High Court against the fraudulent dismissal and
false charge sheet, and RBI has failed to submit reply till date. In fact the Appellant has been acquitted
from all false charges levelled against him vide Hyderabad court judgment dated 26-12-2023, extract of
which is attached as Exhibit-6. Appellant has since filed suit for damages against the unscrupulous
officers before court. Although CPIO has received copy of court judgment and Appellant's court notice
long ago, he has deliberately made such defamatory comments in his submission to CIC with malicious
ulterior motive to show the Appellant in poor light. xxx.." Now, for the sake of propriety, we may also refer to the individual contentions of
the Appellant against the reply provided to each of these RTI Applications worded in the
following manner: Nothing can be farther from truth, since to the Appellant's knowledge names of all committee members
are routinely disclosed by Government and public sector organisations without any exception. b) If
CPIO thought disclosure of committee member's names was third party personal information, then he
should have issued notice to the committee members within 5 days as per section 11 (1) of RTI Act.
Since he has not done so, he cannot have any excuse to deny the information. c) CPIO has further
argued that since amendment of RBI Staff Regulation is under process, names of committee members
cannot be revealed. This is baseless, since names of committee members have to be announced when the
committee 3 is formed, and not after the committee is disbanded after completing its assignment. d) The
information sought vide queries no 6, 7, 8, 9 do not constitute third party personal information. There is
absolute no public harm in disclosure of such information. Especially Terms of Reference of a
Committee has to be disclosed at the time of formation of the committee. e) As per section 8 (1) of RTI
Act information which cannot be denied to Parliament or State Legislature cannot be denied to any Page 17 of 30 person. Since amendment of RBI Staff Regulations has to be placed before Parliament, and since
Government of India has written to RBI Governor in this regard, information regarding committee
members is public information which cannot be denied to the Appellant. 5. False Statement to Deny
Information In his query No 10 the Appellant had sought copies of correspondence between RBI and
Government of India regarding amendment of RBI Staff Regulations. CPIO replied that no information
is available. However, Government of India had written letters to RBI requesting copy of draft
amendment of RBI Staff Regulations. Copy of one such letter dated 05-03-2019 is furnished as Exhibit- 4. Therefore CPIO is obviously making a false statement to deny information.." CIC/ RBIND/A/2024/625258 c) In his reply dated 21-03-2024 to the queries No 3, 6, 10, 14, 19, 20 etc, the CPIO had
removed the names and signatures etc of various officials from the documents furnished. If CPIO
thought this was third party personal information, then he should have issued notice to such third party
persons within 5 days as per section 11 (1) of RTI Act. Since he has not done so, he cannot have any
excuse to deny the information. d) As per section 8 (1) of RTI Act information which cannot be denied to
Parliament or State Legislature cannot be denied to any person. Since matters pertaining to stealing /
misappropriation of citizen's valuable goods and official identity documents cannot be denied to
Parliament or Legislature, CPIO has absolutely no justification to deny the same. e) In reply to
Appellant's query No 3 the CPIO provided only the first page of an office note which does even indicate
the date. Only first two paragraphs of the office note are visible. The remaining portions have not been
provided. The names and signatures of the visiting officers have been removed. In para-2 of the office
note it is stated that the visiting representatives had certified that they had witnessed eviction
proceedings. However copies of their certificates and observations were not provided. f) In reply to
Appellant's query No 4 the CPIO furnished only the entry time, saying that exit time is not available. In
reply to Appellant's query No 18 also he has stated the time of putting padlock on door is not available.
This is not acceptable, since the Bank in its affidavits dated 20-01-2024 and 29-02-2024 submitted to
Mumbai City Civil Court has stated that the Bank has video recording of the entire eviction process
conducted on 30-12-2023. That means the entry and exit of RBI officers to my flat had been video
recorded. Further, officers deputed for any task have to indicate start and end time of their task in their
reports, failing which such report is not acceptable. Even the Bank's CCTV cameras automatically
record the entry and exit of all persons..." CIC/ RBIND/A/2024/624347 c) In his reply to Appellant's Query No 1 the CPIO had stated that he had no information
regarding the number of keys to the Appellant's flat main door in Bank's possession before handing
over possession to Appellant, and the number of keys handed over to Appellant. This information is
always recorded in the registers maintained by the Caretaker. Therefore CPIO cannot argue that he
has no information. If the caretaker's registers are lost, or caretaker did not make any entries in the
registers, then he has to clarify the same, instead of blankly stating that he has no information. Because
of such bizarre attitude of the CPIO the Appellant is unnecessarily forced to make further RTI queries. d) In his reply to Appellant's Query No 2, the CPIO stated that he had no information regarding the
date and time when the inventorised items were shifted from Flat No J-551 to Flat No J-451. This is not
acceptable, since all shifting of inventories have to be mandatorily entered in register. In fact, an RBI
officer named Jeetendra Goswami was recently dismissed from service for his alleged failure to enter
shifting of inventories on Bank's register. In such a scenario it is not plausible or acceptable by any
standards that RBI Estate Officer himself has not entered inventory shifting in the relevant registers. e)
In his reply to Appellant's Query No 6, the CPIO bizarrely stated that whether the discrepancy list had
been reconciled with the inventory. Appellant sought this information in the form of a simple YES or
NO. This information is readily available with the Estate Officer whose duty is to ensure such
reconciliation.." CIC/ RBIND/A/2024/615823

 "b) The CCTV footage, video recording and photographs sought by the Appellant in his RTI
query pertains to eviction of his own personal goods from his own flat. Therefore if any person has right
to obtain the said information, then naturally it 3 has to be the Appellant himself first. There can be
absolutely no justification in denying the video recording of the Appellant's own personal items to him! c) In his reply dated 14-02-2024 to the RTI query, the CPIO had argued that disclosure of the names of
certain persons would endanger the life or physical safety of those persons. However he has failed to
explain how disclosing the names of persons entering the Appellant's flat would endanger their lives
unless they were involved in some criminal activities. And if the RBI officials are indeed involved in
some criminal activities, why should they enjoy any protection from disclosure. It may be noted that
even Members of Parliament have to publicly disclose their criminal records, therefore RBI officials
cannot enjoy any such unwarranted exemption. d) If CPIO thought disclosure of the names of the Page 19 of 30 people entering the Appellant's flat during his absence was third party personal information, then he
should have issued notice to such third party persons within 5 days as per section 11 (1) of RTI Act.
Since he has not done so, he cannot have any excuse to deny the information." CIC/ RBIND/A/2024/615620

 "In his reply to Appellant's Query No 1 the CPIO had stated that the CCTV footage was
personal information where no public interest was involved. Nothing can be more bizarre and farther
from truth, since the main entrance of RBI Quarters at Byculla abuts a major public road. Therefore the
CCTV footage sought constitutes public information. Such CCTV footages are being routinely shared
on public domain and social media by both Central and State Governments as well as by law
enforcement agencies to create public awareness. CIC may personally examine the thousands of CCTV
video clips freely available on social media showing various incidents of accident, murder, theft and hit
and run etc. Further the Appellant is a member of public, and the information sought pertains to the
stealing / misappropriation of his belongings and official documents. Therefore disclosure of the
information sought will serve larger public interest. Therefore, the CPIO's contention is not acceptable
by any stretch of logic. d) In his reply to Appellant's Queries No 2 and 3, the CPIO stated that no
information was available. This is not acceptable, since the entrance to J-Block inside RBI Staff
Quarters is captured by CCTV camera installed inside the quarters...." 10. Here, it is also pertinent to place on record the common contents of the written
submissions filed by the CPIO in each of these cases, which are being rebutted by the
Appellant at extensive length in the above-mentioned arguments: 11. It is also submitted that the information sought by the appellant in various RTI applications
is voluminous to which the CPIOs and the First Appellate Authorities have been providing all the
information, as available and strictly in terms of the RTI Act . The Bank has maintained multiple files of
the appellant, spread across many divisions/departments/desks and Offices since he raised multiple
queries on various subject matters. Further, the appellant has also made threatening and intimidating
remarks against many Officers of the Bank who have performed their official duties and abused
employees of the Bank (including the Top Management) through his various communications addressed
to the Bank. His tone and tenor in his RTI applications, as well as other communications with the Bank,
are accusatory and with false allegations against the Bank. Further, the appellant has been uploading
the information and documents provided to him by the Bank in response to his RTI applications on
social media platforms terming it as' public information'. 12. It is most humbly submitted that all the queries raised by the appellant have been addressed
by the CPIO and reply provided to each of the queries... XXX 13. It is further submitted that RBI, being a full-service Central Bank, performs a wide array of
vital functions. It is neither necessary nor desirable that its own employee(appellant) makes such a huge
number of references, thereby occupying the precious time of the Bank, including the top Management.
The appellants' actions are detrimental to the interest of the Bank. An employer would find it difficult to Page 22 of 30 function smoothly when burdened with such difficult employees as the appellant, who is concerned only
about his rights and has no regard for his duty towards his employer. 14. It is further submitted that Section 21 of the RTI Act provides protection of action taken in
good faith. The CPIO has considered the application of the appellant within the purview of the RTI Act .
There is no procedural lacuna or any mala- fide intention on the part of the CPIO in replying to the
applicant/complainant. 15. Thus, it is humbly submitted that the CPIO and FAA had duly discharged their obligations
under the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005 , and the statement made by the appellant is without any basis.
There is no merit in the appeal and the appellant is not entitled to any of the reliefs sought by him..." 11. Having considered the exhaustive contents on record, the sum and substance of the
Appellant's contentions with respect to the replies provided to him is that the CPIO
ought to have sought for the consent of third parties under Section 11 of the RTI Act and
that unavailable information according to his belief should be available in the records.
The Appellant is advised that Section 11 of the RTI Act is not a compulsory mandate for
the CPIO in all cases where third party information is involved, Section 11 prescribes the
process to be followed only where the CPIO "intends" to disclose the records. Further, as
regards the arguments challenging the correctness of the factual information or
statements tendered by the CPIO, the Appellant may note that adjudication on these
aspects is outside the purview of the RTI Act . In this regard, the Appellant's attention is
invited to certain key precedents as under: While, the Apex Court in the matter of Union of India vs Namit Sharma (Review
Petition [C] No.2309 of 2012) dated 03.09.2013 observed as under: 12. The Appellant is also suitably advised that outstretching the interpretation of Section 2(f) of the RTI Act to include deductions and inferences to be drawn by the
CPIO is unwarranted as it casts immense pressure on the CPIOs to ensure that they
provide the correct deduction/inference to avoid being subject to penal provisions under
the RTI Act . For the sake of clarity, the provision of Section 2(f) of the RTI Act is
reproduced hereunder: In this regard, the Appellant's attention is drawn towards a judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court on the scope and ambit of Section 2(f) of RTI Act in the matter
of CBSE vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay & Ors.[CIVIL APPEAL NO.6454 of 2011] wherein
it was held as under: (Emphasis Supplied)

 Similarly, in the matter of Khanapuram Gandaiah vs Administrative Officer
&Ors. [SLP (CIVIL) NO.34868 OF 2009], the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 13. The Appellant is thus advised by the Commission to exercise his right to
information judiciously, the Appellant is reminded of the fact that his right to information
is far from being absolute and unconditional. That, it is rather unfortunate that even the
best of intentions has to not only stand the test of procedural requirements and fetters laid
down in the RTI Act but also stand the test of practicality, a notion well recognised by
the superior Courts in a catena of judgments such as the Hon'ble Supreme Court's
observation in the matter of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) & Anr. v.
Aditya Bandhopadhyay and others [(2011) 8 SCC 497] stating that: 14. The findings of the Commission in the instant set of matter(s) largely point towards
a misuse of the RTI Act being perpetuated by the Appellant. Here, the Appellant's
attention is again invited towards certain precedents set by the superior Courts
recognizing the misuse of the RTI Act : 15. With the above observations and advisory, the Commission upholds the replies
and submissions of the CPIO. 16. The Appeal(s) are dismissed accordingly. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. Sd/- (Anandi Ramalingam) (आनंदी रामिलंगम)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
 िदनांक/Date: 07.04.2025
Authenticated true copy

Sharad Kumar (शरद कुमार)
Dy. Registrar (उप पंजीयक)
011-26180514

Addresses of the parties: