Heard Mr. S. Lodh, learned counsel appearing for the applicant. Also
heard Mr. R. Saha, learned Additional PP appearing for respondent-State.
 This is an application filed under section 482 of the BNSS, 2023 for
granting anticipatory bail to the applicant in connection with East Agartala
Women PS case No. 09 of 2025 registered under Sections 69, 115(2), 351,
3(5) of the BNS, 2023. As per the prosecution story, one Smt. Mamata Sarkar lodged written
complaint with the Officer-in-Charge of East Agartala Women police station
alleging inter alia that on 14.02.2025 at about 12.00 hours when she went to
GB hospital to ask the applicant as to why he has posted her inappropriate
videos and photos in social media, the applicant attempted to assault her. It
is also alleged that the applicant with the help of women guards of the
hospital had inflicted assault upon the complainant on the allegation of theft.
It is further alleged in the complaint petition that the applicant and the
complainant while staying in a same rented house, the applicant had
furtively captured her nude video of taking bath and started to blackmail her
and also forcibly made physical relation with her against her will in the
office room of GBP hospital threatening her that he would make those
obscene photographs and videos viral in the social media.
 Mr. Lodh, learned counsel appearing for the applicant, has submitted that
the applicant is seriously apprehending his arrest since the police officials
had raided his house time and again. It is further submitted that the applicant
 has been falsely implicated with the instant case, and he is totally innocent.
Mr. Lodh, has further submitted that from the complaint no specific date and
time of commission of any offence has been revealed. Mr. Lodh, has also
submitted that there continued an intimate relationship between the
complainant and the applicant for a long period. Mr. Saha, learned Additional PP has produced the case diary and sought
for an accommodation to submit the medical examination report of the
victim-complainant and the SFSL report alongwith the proficiency/potency
test report of the applicant. I have perused the case diary. From the complaint, it has not come to fore as to when the incident, as
alleged, took place, but, from the complaint petition itself it is revealed that
both the complainant and the applicant had developed relationship for last
many years. Further, it is not mentioned in the complaint that the applicant
had adopted any deceitful means to develop any sexual relationship with the
complainant. It is also emerged from the complaint petition that the
applicant alongwith another two lady guards had assaulted the victim-
complainant on the allegation of theft on 14.02.2025. The complaint was
submitted on 17.02.2025 alleging inter alia that the applicant had
blackmailed the complainant. In my opinion, had the applicant at all blackmailed the complainant to
develop any sexual relationship with her, then, she would have lodged the
complaint at that very moment itself. It is only after the allegation of theft
and the incident of assaulting her, she lodged the FIR and that too after three
days of the alleged incident of assault. She is also completely silent about
any specific date of physical relationship committed by the applicant with
the complainant. Considering the matter in its entirety, I am inclined to grant anticipatory
bail to the applicant, namely, Sataraj Karmakar, as an interim measure till
16.04.2025. Accordingly, it is ordered that, in the event of arrest, the applicant,
namely, Sataraj Karmakar, may be released on interim bail till 16.04.2025
on executing a bond of Rs. 25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to
the satisfaction of the arresting authority. It is directed that the applicant
shall appear before the Officer-in-Charge of the concerned PS tomorrow
(19.03.2025) at 10.30 a.m., and thereafter, the I.O. shall be at liberty to
proceed with the investigation in accordance with law.
 List the matter on 16.04.2025 on which date learned Additional PP shall
produce the medical examination report of the victim-complainant and the
SFSL report alongwith the proficiency/potency test report of the applicant.