This complaint is regarding an ebay order with Paisapay ID [protected] placed on 24/8/2015 for an Apple IPhone 5S 16GB with seller I2CWORLD. Before placing order with ebay for the same on 24th there was an issue with the posting, there being no applicable shipping option available for the same at my location in Kanpur, UP. Also I had a few doubts about the condition of the product which I intended to purchase at that time(the product which i ordered and with which i am now facing issues). So I called upon ebay for clarification and whether the product could any how be delivered at my place. They further directed me to contact the seller i2cworld for apptopriate clarification/details and shipping options. Thereafter I contacted the seller for the same who upon my request furnished me with the details of the details of the same. Also they updated thè post to include my place under the deliverable areas assuring me the delivery of the same as per the description. According to the description furnished to me on phone(customer support line) the handset was to be a brand new one with all the original accessories in retail box and the possibility of a broken seal/opened box as the handset is supposed to be an imported one which goes through customs clearance. Also the specific post on ebay was for a silver coloured handset but my personal preference was for gold to which they amicably replied that the colour was not an issue and after my successful placing the order on ebay they will update the colour of the product to be shipped under the order as per my choice. So after all the detailed description provided to me and all the assurances given regarding the quality and colour, I had no doubts about its condition and originality. So I proceeded with the order and finally placed it with shipping being made available at my place. Now today (i.e. 4/09/2015), after such a long wait I finally received the product but to my surprise in a pathetic condition completely different from the description provided to me before placing the order. Leave aside the broken/open seal, the product was loosely packed in a sub-standard pain white box wrapped in a bubble sheet. Also the in box accessories were fake sub-standard chinese and not original as assured. I also doubt the handset to be a chinese replica which nonetheless is roughly used with major and minor scratches all over its body.This sort o[censored]nethical behaviour is completely unacceptable and uncalled for. These fraud sellers by such means try to deprive us of our hard earned money. I no longer trust the seller, for all the miscommunication by them are an ample indication of their intentions. I need help from your forum in this regard for speedy and amicable resolution of my grievance and in putting the perpetrators to task. Since the transaction is covered under Paisapay Protection by ebay, I hope that the refund will be processed at the earliest and the product reverse picked on urgent basis. But for all this to happen I need your help in this regard in pushing my case against the seller with ebay. The fraud done by the seller has put in danger an amount of ?21315.48/- (ordered value). Please help me get my funds back on urgent basis as it has long been blocked for no use. The contact number of the seller I2CWORLD is[protected] where one needs to ask the operator to connect the call to ebay department alternatively the extnsion for which is 118.