1. Heard Sri Yatindra, learned counsel for the applicant and Sri Rajendra Singh, learned AGA for the State-respondent. 2. The instant application has been filed seeking release of the applicant on bail in Case Crime No.371 of 2023, under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 IPC, Police Station Kotwali Nagar, District Hamirpur, during pendency of the trial in the court below. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that as per allegation, although applicant after clearing of his biometric appeared in the examination but when he cleared the examination and got the job then subsequently it was found that his one biometric was not matched but entire allegation levelled against him is false and if one biometric of the applicant was not matched then it cannot be said that he committed any offence. 4. He further submits that admittedly after clearing the biometric he appeared in the examination. 5. He further submits that all the alleged offences are triable by Magistrate Ist Class and applicant is having no criminal history and he is in jail in the present matter since 03.04.2024 i.e. for last six months. 6. Per contra, learned AGA however opposed the prayer for bail but could not dispute the arguments on facts advanced by learned counsel for the applicant. 7. I have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record of the case. 8. However, as per allegation applicant by playing fraud got the job but it appears that when he appeared in the examination then at that time no objection was raised with regard to his biometric and subsequently, it was found that his one of the biometric was not matched, therefore, argument advanced by learned counsel for the at this stage, cannot be ruled out. 9. Further, all the alleged offences are triable by Magistrate Ist Class and applicant is having no criminal history and he is in jail in the present matter since 03.04.2024 i.e. for last six months. 10. Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case discussed above, in my view, applicant is entitled to be released on bail. 11. Accordingly, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the instant bail application is allowed. 12. Let the applicant- Vikas Priyaraj, be released on bail in the aforesaid case on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions:- 13. In case of breach of any of the above condition, the prosecution will be at liberty to move an application before this Court for cancellation of the bail of the applicant. 14. It is clarified that the observations made herein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. Order Date :- 27.9.2024
 
Zafar