The Plaintiff has filed the present suit against the Defendant

 seeking recovery of Rs.3,82,584/- along with interest through its

 Authorized Representative. 2. Plaintiff is stated to be a private limited company engaged

 in the business of share trading having its Branch/Regional Office

 at Karol Bagh, New Delhi and registered office at Mumbai. 3. It is the case of the Plaintiff that on 07.07.2017, it had

 appointed Defendant as Relationship Manager-equity at Karol Bagh

 Branch vide its branch code i.e Delhi-RO 950 on a total amount of

 Rs.3,91,008/- per annum. Plaintiff company also issued a offer

 letter to the Defendant on 01.06.2017 which has been accepted by

 the Defendant who joined hhis job by abiding himself with the

 policy of the Plaintiff company vide appointment letter dated

 07.07.2017. 4. It is further submitted that a the time of joining, the Plaintiff

 had handed over/assigned a desk with a computer along with its

 code containing Plaintiff Company's important/confidential

 documents and clients details regarding the business of the

 company as well as list of important customers.

M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 3 :: 5. It is further alleged in the plaint that the Defendant was

 thereafter assigned various customers/assignments of the Plaintiff

 Company. However, the Defendant did not perform well and the

 customers made several complaints in the company regarding his

 rude and greedy behavior with them and upon asking from

 Defendant, Defendant always tendered apology and every time

 assured for best performance in future and after considering the

 same, the higher authority of the company several time ignored his

 blunder mistakes on humanitarian grounds by giving him a warning

 and according further opportunity by having faith with the

 Defendant. 6. It is further submitted that in the beginning of the month of

 June, 2018, the Plaintiff came to know that the Defendant had

 leaked the important and confidential informations of Plaintiff

 Company to the competitor companies such as Trade Bulls

 Company, which caused huge loss and damaged the goodwill of the

 company and upon asking from the Defendant about the same, the

 Defendant instead of giving any genuine/satisfactory reason again

 apologized and assured the Plaintiff that he will never repeat such

 type of unprofessional conduct in future and will work hard with

 honesty. M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 4 :: 7. Thereafter, on 08.08.2018, the Defendant suddenly

 disappeared from the office of the company along with all the

 assignments and data etc without informing or updating anyone in

 the company and when the company officials contacted him and

 asked the reason of sudden disappearance from the job, the

 Defendant bluntly refused to return the data/documents stolen by

 the Defendant and started abusing in filthy language and even

 further extended the threats that if any one would ever call or tried

 to contact him in this regard then the concern officials, higher

 authority would face the dire consequences. The officials of the

 company's thereafter informed him that if he would not return the

 belongings of the company or further share the confidential data to

 other competitive company, then company have right to take legal

 action against the defendant in this regard. Defendant send his

 resignation to the Plaintiff through mail on 08.08.2018. Thereafter,

 the officials of the company found that the Defendant blocked the

 lock of the computer assigned to him and when they got open the

 same through the expert person, several data/important files of the

 customers was found deleted by the defendant which caused huge

 loss to the Company. M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 5 :: 8. It is further averred in the plaint that after

 leaving/discontinuing the job by the Defendant, one customer viz.,

 Ms. Chandni Manghnani vide its customer ID no.D0310101

 informed the Plaintiff company that the Defendant grabbed her

 amount of Rs.3,50,000/- on the face of the company in the form of

 loss suffered by her as per her version which actually should not be

 in regular manner and the same is highly surprising for the officials

 of the Plaintiff Company because they assigned him the said

 customer, her documents during his job/service. 9. It is submitted that the Defendant had left the job without

 informing and serving at least one month's prior notice to the

 company and had also grabbed the aforementioned customer

 amount in the name of the company as well as leaked and deleted

 the data of the company during his job tenure in the plaintiff's

 company which tarnished the image of the Plaintiff company in the

 market also. Further, the Defendant had neither deposited one

 month's salary i.e. Rs.32,584/- nor handed over the articles/data of

 the company which was entrusted to him. In addition thereto, the

 Defendant had even not returned the amount of Rs.3,50,000/- of the

 custimer viz., Ms. Chandni Magnani. M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 6 :: 10. Plaintiff also served a legal notice dated 10.10.2018 upon

 the Defendant which was duly served through speed post, however,

 the Defendant failed to make the payment of the suit amount.

 Hence, the present suit. 11. Perusal of record reveals that the Defendant has been served

 through substituted mode by way of publication dated 14.02.2021.

 However, since the Defendant failed to appear before the court, he

 was proceeded against ex parte vide order dated 23.03.2021. 12. In order to prove its case the Plaintiff examined his

 Authorized Representative Mr. Mayank Shekhar, who more or less

 reiterated the contents of the plaint and tendered his evidence by

 way of affidavit Ex.PW-1/1. He also relied upon following

 documents in support of his said affidavit:- 1/A. ii) Copy of offer letter dated 01.06.2017 as Ex.PW-1/B (De-
 exhibited being photocopy and marked as Mark-A). iii) Copy of letter of appointment dated 07.07.2017 as
 Ex.PW-1/C (De-exhibited being photocopy and marked as
 Mark-B). iv) Copy of resignation mail sent by Defendant dated
 08.08.2018 as Ex.PW-1/D. v) Certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as
 Ex.PW-1/E.

M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 7 :: vii) Copy of legal notice dated 08.08.2018 is Ex.PW-1/G
 (De-exhibited being photocopy and marked as Mark-D). viii) Postal Receipt as Ex.PW-1/H. 13. It is pertinent to mention here that consequent upon moving

 of an application under Order XVIII Rule 17 CPC on behalf of

 Plaintiff seeking permission to file additional documents, which

 was allowed vide order dated 13.02.2023, PW-1 was accordingly

 recalled for his further examination, who filed his additional

 evidence of affidavit and further relied upon following documents

 in support of his said affidavit:- v) Legal notice dated 08.10.2018 sent on 10.10.2018
 exhibited as Ex.PW-1/5. 14. I have heard the submissions of Learned Counsel for

 Plaintiff and gone through the documents placed on record. I have

M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 8 :: 15. As aforesaid, the Plaintiff by way of the present suit has

 claimed Rs.32,584/- against the Defendant. It is submitted that the

 Defendant left his job without serving one month's prior notice to

 the Plaintiff company and is accordingly liable to deposit one

 month's salary i.e. Rs.32,584/-. However, the documents filed by

 the Plaintiff company, particularly the appointment letter of the

 Plaintiff Ex.PW-1/3 does not reflect any condition which would

 make the employee liable to pay one month's salary in case is

 submits his resignation. In fact, the resignation letter of the

 Defendant Ex.PW-1/D merely states that the Defendant "wants to

 resign" from the services of the Plaintiff's organization. It is further

 mentioned "So please accept my resignation letter and relieve at

 your earliest." It appears that it was for the Plaintiff to accept the

 resignation letter of the Defendant and there is no document to

 show that the Plaintiff accepted the resignation of the Defendant,

 the date of such acceptance of resignation or even the date/month

 for which the Plaintiff is entitled to claim one month's salary of

 Defendant. M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 9 :: 16. Insofar as the Plaintiff claim with respect to Rs.3,50,000/- is

 concerned, it is the case of the Plaintiff that after the Defendant left

 its establishment, one customer Ms. Chandni Manghnani informed

 the Plaintiff company that the Defendant had grabbed her

 Rs.3,50,000/- on the face of the company. It is apparent from the

 case record that the Plaintiff has neither examined Ms. Chandni

 Manghnani, nor any complaint of the said customer has been

 brought on record to substantiate this claim against the Defendant.

 The Plaintiff has merely exhibited the ledger statement Ex.PW-1/4

 which does not, in any manner, reflect that it is the Defendant who

 has caused the loss of Rs.3,50,000/- to the above named customer

 of the Plaintiff company. 17. In other words, there is no material on record whatsoever

 either by way of testimony of Ms.Chandni Manghnani or any

 complaint of Ms. Chandni Manghnani against the Defendant or any

 other documentary evidence to show that the financial loss of

 Rs.3,50,000/- was caused by the Defendant to the said customer of

 the Plaintiff company. Even otherwise, the concerned customer has

 not come forward to claim the amount from the Defendant and it is

 incomprehensible as to how the Plaintiff company can claim the

 same. M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019
 :: 10 :: 18. In these circumstances, the Plaintiff company cannot be held

 entitled to recover the sum of Rs.3,50,000/- from the Defendant. 19. With these observations, the suit being devoid of merits is

 hereby dismissed. No order as to costs. 20. File be consigned to record room. M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav

 06.02.2024

 Present : None. Vide separate ex parte judgment announced today in
 open court, the suit of the Plaintiff stands dismissed. No order as to
 costs. File be consigned to record room. (Kaveri Baweja)
 District Judge (Commercial Court)-07
 Central District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi
 06.02.2024

M/s Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. Ltd. vs. Saurabh Raghav CS (Comm.) No.167/2019