Affidavit-of-service and supplementary affidavit

 filed by the petitioners be kept with the record. Petitioners have challenged the continuance of

 Bidhannagar Cyber Crime Police Station case no. 88/25

 dated 29.07.2025. Learned senior advocate appearing on

 behalf of the petitioners submit that there has been

 several meetings but the superior officers attached to the

 police department did not take steps at the relevant point

 of time. Consequently, there has been a cyber attack for

 which the petitioners cannot be held responsible. A

 criminal case has been registered and coercive steps are

 being apprehended by the petitioners in course of such

 investigation. Learned Additional Advocate General appearing on

 behalf of the State submits that the letter of complaint 2 which is the foundation of the registration of the case on

the face of it makes out an offence. The writ petitioners'

conduct itself reflects that offences both under the BNS

as well as Information Technology Act are applicable.

Additionally, it has been submitted that the registration of

the case was on 29.07.2025 and the case is at a nascent

stage, the collection of materials are in process. Further the effect of the ransomware attack was

such that the department as a whole and its digital

properties has been affected, consequently the

investigation should be allowed to be continued. In view of the voluminous documents filed by the

petitioner, State is directed to file their composite

affidavit-in-opposition by 8th of September, 2025. Affidavit-in-reply, if any, be filed by 22nd of

September, 2025. In the meantime, if the petitioners are directed

they would cooperate with the investigation. List the writ petition on 23rd of September, 2025

under the same heading on the date so fixed, the progress

of the investigation may also be placed before this Court. All concerned parties shall act on the server copy

of this order duly downloaded from the official website of

this Court. (Tirthankar Ghosh, J.)