Present petition has been filed under Section 438 Code of

Criminal Procedure for grant of anticipatory bail to the petitioner in case FIR

No. 458 dated 11.11.2016 registered for offences punishable under Sections

420 , 467 , 468 and 471 of Indian Penal Code (for short ' IPC '), at Police Station

Rai, District Sonipat. As per case of prosecution, a plot measuring 1 kanal situated in

village Libaspur Bahalgarh, District Sonipat was purchased by Surat Singh,

father of complainant, vide sale deed dated 12.01.1998. He later on came to

know that some persons by playing fraud and impersonating as Surat Singh

have sold the said plot. Surat Singh had died on 31.10.2012 while the alleged

sale deed was executed on 26.10.2016. Vendor Surat Singh was identified by

the petitioner. Learned State counsel has argued that the petitioner is main

accused in this case. During investigation, it has come on record that the

petitioner fabricated Aadhaar Card in the name of Surat Singh, opened an

account in a bank in the name of Surat Singh using his identity proof and took

sale consideration of land of Surat Singh. His thumb impression is also on the
 1 of 2 ::: Downloaded on - 22-04-2017 13:06:24 ::: CRM-M-44370 of 2016 -2- sale deed. Affidavit of Abhishek Aggarwal (Annexure P-4) relied upon by the

petitioner was also fabricated by him by playing fraud with said Abhishek

Aggarwal. Custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required to ascertain facts

as to from where he forged the Aadhaar Card and whose assistance he has

taken in the entire fraud played by him. Learned counsel for the petitioner has argued that the petitioner is

merely a witness and has identified the person, who appeared as Surat Singh

after seeing his Aadhaar Card, as such, is not concerned with fabrication of

identity proof of Surat Singh and other matters relating to execution of the sale

deed. Case is based on documentary evidence and the petitioner is ready to

cooperate with police in investigation, as such, he may be allowed anticipatory

bail. On giving a careful thought to submissions of learned counsel for

the petitioner, I do not find it to be a fit case to grant anticipatory bail to the

petitioner. During investigation several facts have come on record, which

include forging of Aadhaar Card by the petitioner, opening of account in bank

in the name of Surat Singh using his identity proof, receiving of sale

consideration, his thumb impression on sale deed and forging of affidavit of

vendor. For thorough investigation of the matter and to nail the other culprits

custodial interrogation of the petitioner will be of great assistance to the

investigating agency. Keeping in view above facts, this petition has no merit and the

same is dismissed.