and not only the first respondent. 6 The workman filed the rejoinder to the written 

statements of both managements in which he reiterated the 

contents of statement of claim as true and correct and denied the 

contents of the written statements as false and incorrect. 

7 From the pleadings of the parties following issues 

were framed : OPW

8 However vide order dt.30.09.2014 additional issue 

"Whether management no.1 and claimant has any "employer­

employee relationship" also framed. 9 In order proved his case workman has examined 

himself as WW1 and led his evidence through affidavit 

EXWW1/A and also relied upon documents WW1/1 to WW1/5. 

And also tendered additional affidavit EXWW1/A1 in evidence on 

20.11.2013 and relied upon additional documents EXWW1/16 to 

WW1/32. 10 On the other hand M1 examined Sh. Urfee Haider as 

MW1 who led evidence by affidavit Ex. MW1/A &MW1/B and 

relied upon documents Ex. MW1/1 to MW1/10 and also relied 

upon documents marked MW1/1 to mark MW1/15. 11 M2 has examined its proprietor Sh. Sushil Kaushal 

MW2/1 and he relied upon documents EXMW2/1A. ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 9 out of 50 
 12 Argument were heard from Smt. Asha Jain AR for 

workman and Sh. Vineet Sinha AR for management no.1 and Sh. 

Rakesh Taneja AR for management no.2. 13 I have considered the arguments and gone through the 

record my issue wise finding are as under:­ ISSUE NO. 1 "Whether there is any individual 

 dispute in absence of a valid espousal 

 is not maintainable in the eye of law? OPM

14 As per complaint Ex. WW1/15 file by workman to the 

Deputy Labour Commissioner same was filed through Delhi State 

General workers Congress union against his illegal termination. As 

per section 10 (4A) of the ID Act (Delhi State amendment) a 

dispute falling with in scope of section 2A of ID act the individual 

workman can file a complaint against his illegal dismissal or 

termination. Relevant section 10(4A) Delhi state amendment is 

reproduce as below: 15 Hence, in case of dismissal, termination of a workman 

no collective espousal is required and individual workman dispute 

can be espoused by union or even workman can raised dispute 

without espousal from union therefore claim file by workman is 

not barred. Issue no. 1 is decided against the management. ISSUE NO. 2 Whether the workman comes under 

 the definiton of workman as define 

 U/s. 2 (s) of Industrial Dispute Act ? OPM" 16 It is stated by Management no.2 in WS that workman 

is not covered under the definition of 2(s)of the Industrial Dispute 

Act . The definition of workman as define is section 2(s) is 

reproduced as under : or (iii) who, being employed in a 
 supervisory capacity, draws wages 
 exceeding one thousand six hundred 
 rupees per mensem or exercises, either 
 by the nature of the duties, attached to 
 the office or by reason of the powers 
 vested in him, functions mainly of a 
 managerial nature. 17 As per testimony of the workman led through 

affidavit EXWW1/A he was working as AC cum operator cum 

technician. He has categorically deposed that he was not working 

as supervisor or doing managerial duties. In his cross examination 

no suggestion has been given to him by any of the managements 

that workman was performing any supervisory or administrative 

duties. Further as per own admission of M2 in para no.1 of the 

reply/written statement on merit it has been stated that its 

employees are field workers mostly employed to attend complaints 

of AC installations at the client premises and claimants was also 

employed to do the same job. Further MW2 has himself admitted 

in the cross examination that he has provided PF facilities to 

claimant which are generally provided to workman. The workman 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 15 out of 50 
 cannot be taken out from the ambit of workman if he is appointed 

under a employment contract though no such contract has been 

produced by M2 in evidence. The onus was on the managements 

to proved that claimants do not come in the definition of workman 

as define u/s 2(s) of ID Act but from the evidence led by 

managements nothing has came out which take the workman out 

of ambit of definition of workman as define in section 2(s) of ID 

Act. Hence I held that managements have failed to proved that 

claimant is not a workman as per section 2(s) of the Industrial 

Dispute Act. Hence, issue no. 2 is decided against the 

Managements. ADDITIONAL ISSUE
 Whether management no.1 and 

 claimant has any employer­employee 

 relationship

18 The Ld. AR for the workman has contended that 

workman was working with the M1 since 1995 as AC operator 

cum technician and his appointment was illegally shown with the 

M2 in the year 2007. The management no. 2 is bogus entity and 

created only for the purpose of depriving the workman from the 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 16 out of 50 
 legal facilities. In support of his contention he has relied upon the 

testimony of the workman. 19 The workman in his testimony led through affidavit 

Ex.WW1/A has almost deposed the same facts as stated in his 

statement of claim as discussed above. He has also relied upon 

documents Ex.WW1/1 to 1/15. The workman has also led 

evidence by way of supplementary affidavit Ex. WW1/A1 and 

relied upon documents Ex. WW1/16 to 1/32. In his cross examination he has stated that he joined 

the management on 04.01.95 as AC Technician cum Operator. He 

had not done any diploma or any other course relating to AC 

technician cum operator. He was provided 2­3 months training 

from blue star regarding AC and he had filed the certificate of 

said training. This training programme was regular programme 

for 2­3 hours daily. He had admitted that he was not issued any 

appointment letter by the M1. He stated that prior to working with 

the M1. He was working with M/s. Temtek Engineers who is 

dealer in Carrier Aircon and he was working with them from 1992. 

He admitted the suggestion that management no.2 had issued 

appointment letter dated 01.07.2007 but he vol. deposed that his 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 17 out of 50 
 signature was forcibly taken on that letter. He denied the 

suggestion that there is no relationship of employer­employee 

between him and M1 and vol. deposed management no.1 was 

principle employer. He denied the suggestion that he was the 

employee of M2 and M2 deputed him to other places for work. He 

denied the suggestion that his name was not entered in the muster 

roll as he was not the permanent employee of the M1 vol. deposed 

he used to sign personally in the permanent attendance register. 

He denied the suggestion that he was paid wages by M2 and vol. 

deposed that he was paid wages in cash by M1 and he got his 

signatures on wages register. He stated that he is not aware that 

his PF account is being maintained by M2. In his cross examination by M2 workman has stated 

that he used to get Rs. 3500/­per month as salary in the starting. 

There was no appointment letter for employment which specified 

his terms of employment with M1. He was allotted an employee 

number which he do not recollect. He admitted that his name was 

not reflected in document Ex. MW1/18. He stated that his name is 

written in the page which is following Ex. WW1/18. He stated that 

he never resigned from the M1 and M1 prevented him from 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 18 out of 50 
 working further on 11/12.9.09. He stated that his name was 

written in the page which is followed Ex. WW1/18. He admitted 

that this document Ex. WW1/18 does not indicate the name of 

Sony India (P) Ltd. i.e. M1. He vol. stated that this document is 

part of WW1/18. He stated that he was appointed by Sanjay in the 

M1 in the year 1995 and he was drawing salary of Rs. 10,000/­ pm 

in cash. He admitted that there is no document which reflect that 

he was drawing salary on monthly basis from M1. 

22 On the other hand M1 in order to deny that workman 

is not their employee M1 examined Sh. Urfi Haider its Sr. 

Executive Legal and Taxation as MW1. He led his evidence 

through affidavit Ex. MW1/A. In his evidence he has deposed that 

workman was never employed with the M1 and he was employee 

of service provider/ independent contractor/M2 and said contractor 

has deputed him to work alongwith other employees of the 

contractor at the premises of M1 for the purpose of requisite 

services. He deposed that claimant has not worked with 

management no.1 w.e.f. From 04.01.1995 to 09.11.2009 and there is 

no question of workman working under direct control and 

supervision of the management no.1. He further deposed as per 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 19 out of 50 
 information provided by M2 from 2007 to 2009 claimant was 

employee of M2. He further deposed that M2 was engaged on 

need bases and they were paid as per actual bills however, M2 

started providing service in some other place. The M1 negotiated 

with the M2 to provide the services on consolidated fee basis and 

sign the agreement in this regard. The workman was never in the 

direct control of M1 hence no question arise for termination or 

compliance of section 25 F of the ID Act. In his cross examination he admitted that he has no 

role to play with regard to work force in M1 including the 

claimant. He denied that HR or Administration department of M1 

used to supervise the work of claimant. He has no knowledge 

whether M1 has been maintaining any muster roll of its employee. 

He stated that M1 is registered with contract Labour Regulation & 

Abolition Act but he do not know since when it is registered. He 

stated that he has no knowledge that M1 used to deposit the 

subscription of PF to the PF department for the claimant or not. 

He cannot tell whether salary of the claimant was being paid by 

cash or cheque. They have no record pertaining to the employment 

of the claimant including pertaining to the wages. He stated that 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 20 out of 50 
 he cannot tell the date since when the contract was given to M2. 

He admitted that WW1/2 to 1/7 are delivery challan pertaining to 

M1 and similarly document Ex. WW1/8 to 1/10 are documents 

pertaining to M1. He is denying the documents dt. 3.4.98and 

12.5.00 as they do not have the company stamp or the name of the 

authorised signatory of company is not mentioned. He stated that 

he is not in the position to admit or deny the authencity of e­mail 

letter dt. 12.8.12, 2.12.04, 2.6.05, 24.2.05, 12.7.05, 17.3.06, 2.2.06. 

He stated delivery challan dated 14.8.02, 19.8.02, 20.5.05, 4.7.05, 

2.8.05, 6.9.05, 15.09.05, 19.11.05, 28.4.06 Ex. MW1/W3 to W11 

belong to M1. He has no knowledge whether document Ex. 

WW1/26 to WW1/32 belongs to M1. He admitted that temporary 

entry Card mark as MW1/W12 belongs to M1. He cannot admit or 

deny whether Sh. Akhil Kr. & Others as mentioned on Ex. 

MW1/W2 are employees of M1. He cannot admit or deny whether 

M1 had given any notice of commencement /completion of 

contract work as provided in form XVI - B and as required under 

rule 81 (3) of Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Rules, 

1971. He further stated that he cannot admit or deny whether M1 

had sent any return in form XXIV as provided under 82 of the 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 21 out of 50 
 above Rules. He has no knowledge whether M1 is maintaining any 

register/documents certifying that wages are being paid to the 

contract workers. The only document on the basis of which he 

said that claimant is not employee of M1 is the service contract 

between the claimant and M2. He denied that same signatures of 

claimant on the said document was obtained under force & 

coercion. He stated that claimant was directly appointed by M1 or 

that claimant has always worked as direct employee of M1. He 

further denied that M2 was only agency of M1 or that contract if 

any between M1 and M2 were forged, manipulated and sham, 

created for the purpose of camouflaging the true relationship of 

employer - employee between claimant and M1. He further denied 

that M1 is in collusion with M2 and has illegally terminated the 

services of claimant. 24 The management no. 2 has examined Sunil Kaushal a 

its proprietor as MW2/1. In his evidence led by way of affidavit 

Ex. MW2/1A he deposed that he was proprietor of M2. He stated 

that he relied upon contents of his written statement. In his cross examination he stated that workman was 

his employee since Feb. 2006. The workman was employed with 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 22 out of 50 
 M2 in Feb. 2006 but the employment contract was given to him on 

1.7.07 after seeing his performance. He do not remember the date 

month and year when he has deposited the PF of the workman. 

The PF account No. DL35079/4 belongs to the workman. He 

denied the suggestion that said account was never opened by him 

or same does not pertain to the workman. He admitted that before 

appointing workman he had not advertised for vacancy nor he has 

given any representation for his appointment with M2. He denied 

the suggestion that workman was forced to sign the appointment 

letter in connivance with the M1. He further stated that he had 

terminated the services of the workman as he has filed the case 

against the management no. 1 and 2 against the term of the 

contract of appointment letter. Management no. 1 had issued a 

show cause notice to M2 that workman has filed the case against 

them the copy of the said letter is with M2. He admitted that 

Bhudev Sharma is regular employee of M1. He denied that the 

salary of the workman was paid by M1. He stated that he do not 

know whether M1 was maintaining a register for attendance of 

permanent employees. He further stated that he do not know 

whether M1 was marking the attendance of the claimant in the 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 23 out of 50 
 said register. He stated that he had received a notice from 

Assistant Labour Commissioner South in 2009 prior to the 

issuance of termination letter dt. 611.09 to the workman to which 

workman had refused. He admitted that no enquiry was initiated 

against the workman. He has filed a case before Labour court. He 

denied the suggestion that the name of the workman did not exists 

in the muster roll of M2. He further denied that contract between 

M1 and M2 are sham and bogus or that they have been created to 

camouflage true employer employee relationship between M1 and 

the claimant. 25 It is argued by Ld ARW that from the testimony of the 

workman and documents proved by workman it is proved that 

workman was working with the M1 since 1995 and in the year 

2007 he was forced to sign on appointment letter issued by M2 to 

deprive him legal facilities. Hence, it is proved that workman is the 

employee of the M1. She further argued that since workman has 

filed the industrial dispute before labour department and the 

workman was terminated during the pendency of the said case. 

Therefore, his termination was in violation of section 33(2) (b) of 

the ID Act as neither one month notice pay was paid to the 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 24 out of 50 
 workman nor management has sought approval under section 

33(2) (b) of the ID Act. She further argued that since workman is 

able to prove documents from the year 1995 which include 

delivery challan that he was the employee of the M1 and not of M2 

and his record has been shown illegally with the M2 and contract 

between the M1 and M2 to provide contract labour is false and 

fabricated documents hence, same cannot be relied upon. She 

further argued that in case this court come to the conclusion that 

workman is the employee of M2 in that event the relief to the 

workman be granted against the M2 as he was terminated illegally. 

26 On the other hand, Ld. AR of the M1 has argued that 

since workman has admitted that appointment letter was issued to 

him by M2 in year 2007. Therefore onus was on workman to 

proved that his signature was taken forcibly by the M2 which he 

failed to proved, therefore, it is proved that there was no employer 

employee relationship between M1 and workman as on the day of 

termination he was employee of M2. He further argued that 

workman was deploy to work with M1 by M2 as there was a 

contract to provide labour between M1 and M2. Hence, workman 

was working with M1 only as a contract labour. Hence, no 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 25 out of 50 
 question of termination of service by M1 arise and submitted that 

service of the workman was terminated by M2. Therefore, in 

these circumstances, claim of the workman is liable to be 

dismissed. 27 On the other hand Ld. AR for management no. 2 has 

argued that claimant was employee of management no.2 and was 

appointed in 2007 and was deployed to work with M2 with whom 

M2 has contract to supply labour. He argued that claimant has 

violated term of employment by filing case against M1 hence his 

services was terminated. He further argued that since workman 

has clearly admitted in his cross examination that no relief has 

been sought by M1 therefore, no claim lie against M2 hence claim 

is liable to be dismissed. 28 I have considered the arguments and gone through the 

record. I am agree with the contention of Ld. AR for M1 that onus 

is upon the workman to prove that he is the employee of the 

management as held in In N.C. John Vs. Secretary Thodupuzha 

Taluk Shop and Commercial Establishment Workers Union and 

others 1973 Lab, IC 398, the Kerala High Court relied upon in 

Nilgiri case(supra) it is held that : 29 I am also agree with the contention of Ld. AR for 

Management no.1 that sole testimony of workman is not sufficient 

to prove his employment but he also required to corroborate it 

with documentary evidence and other independent witness. As 

stated above the workman in his testimony has deposed that he was 

the employee of M1 and was working with M1 since 4.1.95 till 

9.11.09 as AC Operator cum Technician. But in his statement of 

claim as well as in his testimony he has not deposed that on what 

salary he was appointed with M1, though in the cross­examination 

he has stated that he was initially appointed on the salary of Rs. 

3500/­ per month and his last drawn salary was Rs. 10000/­ per 

month. But he admitted that he has no proof that M1 is giving 

salary to him. He has not produced any appointment letter. In his 

cross examination he has stated that he was not given appointment 

letter by the management. But has failed to explain why he has not 

demanded appointment letter despite working so long with M1. He 

has stated that his PF was deducted by Management but 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 27 out of 50 
 management has not given PF deposit slip or ESI benefit. Again he 

failed to explain if M1 has not given PF deposit slip or ESI 

facilities why before his termination he had not made any 

complaint regard to Labour department or any other authority. Further he stated that despite various oral representation/demands 

made to M1 to regularize his service against existing post needful 

was not done by management but he has failed to explain why 

from 4.1.95 till 9.11.09 he had not made any complaint against M1 

for not regularizing him. This led to presumption that his 

allegations are after thought and has been only made to strengthen 

the case that he is employee of the M1 probably on the advice of 

union. He stated that he was marking attendance in attendance 

register but no such attendance register has been produced by him 

nor any application has been made to summon the attendance 

register of muster role. Hence the workman has failed to produced 

any of the documentary evidence such as appointment letter, 

muster roll, attendance register,leave record, wages slip or PF and 

ESI which are cogent proof of employment, as mentioned in Automobile Association of Upper India vs P.O. Labour Court II 

and Anothers 2006 LLR551. In this case our own High Court held 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 28 out of 50 
 as under:­ 
 "14. Engagement and appointment in service 
 can be established directly by the existence and 
 production of an appointment letter, a written 
 agreement or by circumstantial evidence of 
 incidental and ancillary records which would be in 
 the nature of attendance register, salary registers, 
 leave record, deposit of provident fund contribution 
 and employees state insurance contributions etc. 

29 As far as documents relied upon by workman is 

concerned, he has proved on record documents Ex. WW1/1 to 

1/32. WW1/1 is notice of the M2 given to the workman intimating 

him about his termination which do not proved that he is employee 

of M1. WW1/ 2 is carbon copy of printed delivery challan of M1 

dt. 28.7.00 1/ 3 is original delivery challan dt. 6.10.00 1/ 4 is 

delivery challan dt. 6.8.00 1/5 is delivery challan dt. 19.8.12 1/6 is 

delivery challan dt. 11.7.00 which bears name of workman which 

proved these articles has been delivered to him, 1/8 and 9 are gate 

passes respectively allowing him to take the goods out of 

management premises. WW1/23 are 14 delivery challans of 

various dates from 1998 to 2006 ( original, some are carbon copy 

and some are photocopies) which are exhibited collectively 

regarding handing over of goods to Parkash. Since no suggestion 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 29 out of 50 
 has been given to workman that these documents are forged or 

fabricated hence these documents authenticity is not disputed 

therefore these documents proved that workman has received the 

goods mentioned in these delivery challan or gate pass. 

30 WW1/26 are 16 service report(exhibited collectively) 

made by OVN Trading Engineers Pvt. Ltd. regarding attending 

various complaints of DG set from dt. 27.9.97 to 23.09.2008, 

WW1/27 is also service reports made by Voltas Ltd WW1/28 is 

also service report, 1/29 service request which shows goods were 

brought to them by workman for repairs on behalf of Sony India , 

1/30 is gate pass, 1/31 (13 receipts)issued by Ureka Forbes Ltd. 

regarding purchasing of purifier, 1/32 are the service reports, 1/33 

dealer Aircon India P Ltd., service report of the repairing work. 

No suggestion has been given to witness that these are fake or 

fabricated service report. Hence all these delivery challan and 

service report proved by the workman undoubtedly established 

that workman was working for M1 from year 1995 but do not 

proved that he was employee of M1. The other documents proved 

by workman also corroborate claimant testimony that he was 

working for management no.1 much prior to year 2001. 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 30 out of 50 
 Management has failed to explain if workman was deployed by M2 

to work at M1 in year 2007 than why workman was given goods 

for repairs or to take to various company. There is nothing in the 

testimony of the MW1 Urfee Haider to discard the testimony and 

documents proved by claimant that he was working for 

management no.1 since 1995 . But from the documents proved by 

workman it is not proved on what designation he was working with 

management no1 and what was his salary or designation or that he 

has worked 240 days in a year prior to his termination. The 

document EXWW1/M2/2 proved that M/s MEFIYER Air 

Conditioner Pvt. Ltd. was established in the name of workman 

and his wife as Directors on 18.11.2005 and office address of said 

firm is his residential address. Though workman in his cross 

examination has stated that he do not know about the said 

company. But he has failed to explain how the said company got 

register in his and his wife name and from his residential address. 

He has given no complaint that somebody else has registered 

company by his name and address. Therefore I find it hard to 

believe that he has not opened the said company which means that 

in the year 2005 workman was running his owned company 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 31 out of 50 
 dealing with AC. Hence while running his own company in year 

2005 he cannot be employee of M1. Therefore from the documents 

relied upon by workman he is not able to proved that he was 

employee of M1. 31 Even otherwise I am agree with the contention of Ld. 

ARM that since workman had not denied that he signed the 

appointment letter issued by M2 on 01.07.2007 hence workman 

was in the employment of M2 since 01.07.2007 hence he cannot be 

employee of M1 atleast from 01.07.2007 and therefore he was not 

the employee of M1 on the day when he was terminated. Claimant 

in his cross examination has stated that on 01.07.2007 he has 

signed on the appointment letter issued by M2 but has voluntarily 

stated that he was coerced to sign on the appointment letter by M2 

but he has failed to explained if he was forced to signed on it then 

why he has not made complaint to any authority in this regard till 

22.10.2009 when he filed the complaint EXWW1/11 before 

Deputy Labour Commissioner demanding regularization of 

service with M1 hence first time he made complaint after more 

than 2 year of signing the appointment letter of M2 hence claimant 

contention cannot be accepted that he was forced to sign on 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 32 out of 50 
 appointment letter issued by M2. He knowingly worked as 

employee of M2 without making any complaint which proved 

workman voluntarily decided to join service of M2 but later on 

taken the stand that he was forced to sign on appointment letter of 

M1 probably due to advice given by trade union office bearer who 

filed the complaint ExWW1/11 on behalf of workman. In my view 

the day workman signed on the appointment letter of M2 he 

joined service of M2 he ceased to be employee of M1 even if it is 

presumed that he was the employee of M1 as no person can be 

employee of two management. Therefore on the day of his 

termination i.e. on 09.11.2009 he was not the employee of M1. 

32 The another contention of Ld. ARW that contract 

between M1 and M2 is sham and camouflage hence workman 

should be treated as employee of principal employer i.e. M1 is also 

not tenable. Undoubtedly if Court finds contract between principal 

employer and contract is sham and camouflage than it can declare 

a workman as employee of principal employer instead of 

contractor. In International Airport Authority vs International 

Air Cargo Workers union and another 2009 (13) SCC374 it is 

held that 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 33 out of 50 
 "The industrial adjudicator can grant the relief 
 sought if it finds that contract between principal 
 employer and the contractor is sham, nominal and 
 merely a camouflage to deny employment benefits to 
 the employer and that there is in fact a direct 
 employment, by applying tests like: who pays the 
 salary; who has the power to remove/dismiss from 
 service or initiate disciplinary action; who can tell 
 the employee the way in which the work should be 
 done, in short who has direction and control over the 
 employee. But where there is no notification under section 10 of the CLRA Act and where it is not proved 
 in the industrial adjudication that the contract was 
 sham/nominal and camouflage, then the question of 
 directing the principal employer to absorb or 
 regularize the services of the contract labour does not 
 arise. The tests that are applied to find out whether a 
 person is an employee or an independent contractor 
 may not automatically apply in finding out whether 
 the contract labour agreement is a sham, nominal 
 and is a mere camouflage. For example, if the 
 contract is for supply of labour, necessarily, the 
 labour supplied by the contractor will work under the 
 directions, supervision and control of the principal 
 employer but that would not make the worker a direct 
 employee of the principal employer, if the salary is 
 paid by contractor, if the right to regulate 
 employment is with the contractor, and the ultimate 
 supervision and control lies with the contractor. The 
 principal employer only controls and directs the work 
 to be done by a contract labour, when such labour is 
 assigned/allotted/sent to him. But it is the contractor 
 as employer, who chooses whether the worker is to be 
 assigned/allotted to the principal employer or used 
 otherwise. In short worker being the employee of the 
 contractor, the ultimate supervision and control lies 
 with the contractor as he decides where the employee 
 will work and how long he will work and subject to 
 what conditions. Only when the contractor 
 assigns/sends the worker to work under the principal 
 employer, the worker works under the supervision 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 34 out of 50 
 and control of the principal employer but that is 
 secondary control. The primary control is with the 
 contractor." 33 Now reverting back to the case The workman in his 

affidavit EXWW1/A has deposed that he was never deputed by the 

contractor at the premises of the management for the purpose for 

rendering the requisite service during the period he was shown by 

the management in the employment of M1. He was always made 

to work under the direct control and supervision of Sony India P 

Ltd Sanjay JR Manager Anil Kumar Assistant Manager, Punit 

Rampal and Sumit Arora supervise his work even economic 

control over him and his working was that of Sony India. but he 

has not examined any witness in support of his testimony that his 

work was being supervised by the aforesaid persons mentioned in 

his affidavit. Further claimant has deposed M2 was always been 

only name lander and has no control of any kind what so over his 

employment and other terms and conditions. The conversion of 

his status from the direct employee to contractual employee was on 

papers by Sony and always been only a rouse camouflage and 

direct employer employee relationship between him and the M1 

continued to exists. But he has failed to explained why he did not 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 35 out of 50 
 filed any complaint when he was converted from direct employee 

to contractor employee. 34 MW1 Urfee Haider has deposed through his affidavit 

EXMW1/B that M1 has entered into service agreement with M2. 

By virtue of said agreements M2 is to render various maintenance 

service such as AC maintenance and repairs, plumbing work, 

electrical work and officer premises maintenance etc. In order to 

perform the work M2 deputed its employee at the office premises 

of M1. The workman was also deputed by M2. He has proved 

various agreements from year 1995 to till 08.04.2013. which were 

EXMW1/1 to MW1/10 and mark M1 to M15. All these documents 

proved that there was contract between M1 and M2 to provide 

various maintenance service. MW2 proprietor of M2 has deposed 

that he was depositing PF of workman and workman PF account 

no. was DL/35079/4. Though workman has denied said account as 

his PF account but no application has been filed by him to 

summon the record to rebut the contention that PF account does 

not pertain to him. Similarly he has filed no application to 

summon the record that he was being paid salary by M1. Thus in 

these circumstance, I do not find oral testimony of workman 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 36 out of 50 
 reliable that he was working under the control and supervision of 

the officer as mentioned above in his affidavit or that he was 

getting salary from the M1. The onus was upon the workman to 

proved that contract between M1 and M2 is sham and camouflage 

but in my view he has failed to discharge the said onus. 

35 I also do no find force in the contention of Ld. ARW 

that since management no.1 is not having registration to engage 

labour on contract as required under section 7 of Contract Labour 

(Abolition and Regulation ) Act hereinafter called as CLRA and 

Management no.2 does not have license to provide labour on 

contract as required under section 12 of the above said Act hence 

contract between management no.1 and 2 is sham and camouflage. 

The CLRA no where provide that if principal employer is not 

registered under the Act or contractor has not taken license there 

contract to supply labour would be void. The section 24 of CLRA 

only provide that a person who contravenes the provision of the 

Act would be liable for imprisonment upto three month or with 

fine. Hence in these circumstance I held that workman has failed 

to proved that contract between M1 and M2 to provide service for 

various maintenance work was sham and camouflage.

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 37 out of 50 
 36 In view of above discussion I held that claimant has 

failed to proved that he was the employee of M1 but he was 

employee of M2 on the day of his termination and had not worked 

for 240 days prior to his termination with management no.1. 

Additional Issue is decided accordingly against the workman. ISSUE NO. 3 Whether the workman is entitled to 

 the relief claimed? 37 The workman has sought following relief in his 

statement of claim : The date of his initial joining; and 5. without prejudice to the above direct the R2 to 

 reinstate the claimant back in service with all 

 consequential benefits including back wages 

 w.e.f. The date of termination of his services, 

 increment and continuity of services and 6. Direct the respondents to pay the earned wages of 

 the claimant for the month of October, 2009 till 

 the date of illegal termination of his services w.e.f. 

 9.11.09; and 7. Pass such other and further orders as this court 

 may deem fit and proper in the interest of justice 

 including initiation of prosecution as per law. 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 39 out of 50 
 38 In view of my finding of additional issue I held that 

workman is not entitle to relief no.1,3,4 as he was not employee of 

M1 at the time of his termination. As far as relief no.2 is 

concerned onus is upon the workman to proved he was terminated 

illegally by M2. The workman has stated in his statement of claim 

that Sony India was exploiting him therefore, he made oral 

representation/demand to the management Sony India i.e. M1 for 

regularising his service against the existing post but need ful was 

not done by the management therefore, he has approached to the 

workman union named Delhi State General Worker congress and 

Union made various demands on his behalf but nothing fruit full 

came out thus he raised the dispute before the Dy. Labour 

commissioner for regularisation of service and regular pay scale 

on 22.10.09. The notice was issued against both the managements 

and during the pendency of said dispute he was served a letter dt. 

9.11.09 on 12.11.09 whereby his service was terminated by M2 

and since he was terminated during the pendency of industrial 

dispute hence, management had violated the section 33 and 33 A of Industrial Dispute Act as no approval has been taken for his 

termination from the Conciliation Officer. Same facts he has 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 40 out of 50 
 reiterated in his evidence led by way of affidavit Ex WW1/A. No 

suggestion has been given by the management that workman has 

not filed the complaint before conciliation officer for 

regularisation of his service. He proved the said complaint as 

EX.WW1/11. Further from the termination letter EXWW1/1 sent 

to workman by M1 also it is proved that workman was terminated 

because workman has filed the complaint before Labour 

deparment. Even MW2 in his reply of WS to the statement of 

claim has admitted in para 1 in reply on merit that workman 

service were terminated on 9.11.09 for violation of terms of 

contract. But no such employment contract has been placed on 

record by MW2 which the workman has allegedly violated. He 

has admitted in the cross examination that workman was 

terminated only because he has filed case against the M1 and M2. 

In my view merely filing a case by the workman against the 

management is not a such misconduct that it warranted 

termination of a workman. Admittedly no show cause notice or 

domestic enquiry was conducted against the workman and thus he 

was not given opportunity to explain his conduct even if same was 

misconduct. Hence in my view without any domestic enquiry or 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 41 out of 50 
 show cause notice the termination of workman was illegal. 

Further, I am agree with the contention of Ld. ARW that M2 has 

violated the provision of 33 (2) (b) of the ID Act as workman was 

terminated during pendency of Industrial dispute raised by him 

vide complaint dt. 22.10.2009 EXWW1/11 as no approval was 

sought by M2 as required u/s 33(2)(b) of ID Act regarding his 

action of termination of workman. The Section 33(2) (b) which is 

reproduced as under : Further in para14 of judgement it is held that :­
 ".....The order of dismissal or discharge an employees 
 brings an end of relationship of employer and employee 
 from the date of dismissal but that order remains 
 incohate as it is subject to approval of the authority 
 under the said provision. In otherward relationships 
 comes to an end dejure only when authority grants 
 approval. If approval is not given nothing more is 
 required to be done by the employee, as it will have to 
 be deemed that the order of dismissal or discharge had 
 never been passed. Consequence of it is that the 
 employee is deemed to continue in service entitling him 
 all benefits available. This being the position there is 
 no need of a separate order for his reinstatement."

40 Hence in these circumstances I held that order of 

termination of workman was non est due to violation of provision 

of 33(2) (b) of ID Act . Thus I held that since workman was 

terminated illegally. 41 I do not find force in the contention of Ld. AR for 

management no.2 since workman in the cross examination has 

stated that he is not claiming any relief against M2 therefore 

claimant is not entitle to seek any relief from M2 even if 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 45 out of 50 
 termination is held illegal. I held that since termination of 

workman was illegal therefore he is entitle to reinstatement with 

continuity of service hence I order M1 to reinstate him.

42 As far as back wages is concerned grant of full back 

wages is not automatic. In Thakur Singh Rawat Vs. Jagjeet 

Singh & Ors. 2006, LLR 16 DHC while discussing various 

judgement of higher courts Hon,ble Judge has culled out various 

principles which could be considered while granting back wages 

which are mentioned in para no.18 which is reproduced as under: 43 Further in Reetu Marbles and Prabhakant Shukla 

2010 (124) FLR 72, it was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court that: 44 In another case M/s P V K Distillery Ltd. Vs. 

Mahendra Ram , 1009(2) SCT 369, it was held that illegal 

termination does not create a right of reinstatement with full 

employment benefits and full back wages to an employee. It was 

observed that : 45 In view of the aforesaid judgements I shall examine 

whether the workman is entitled for full back wages or not. 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 48 out of 50 
 Workman in his affidavit has deposed that he is unemployed after 

his termination as he could not get job elsewhere but he has not 

mentioned what effort he has made for alternative job. Where he 

has applied for job. He was an electrician. From the certificate 

EXWW1/24 it is evident that he has taken training in AC 

acquaintance thus he was a AC technician. AC technician has a 

great demand. The workman himself admitted in the cross 

examination that he worked as AC technician on daily basis. He 

has not deposed what he is earning but considering his 

qualification and field definitely he would earning equally to 

salary he was getting from M2. Further the workman has filed a 

case against the M1 and M2 despite the fact that he was not the 

employee of M1 which forced M2 to terminate him though act of 

M1 was not legal. Hence somewhat he is also responsible for his 

termination. Hence in these circumstance it would not be 

appropriate to grant back full back wages. Hence considering all 

the facts I order to grant 20% back wages from the date of 

termination till the date of award. Further if the management no.2 

fail to make the payment after 30 days of publication of award it 

would be liable to pay interest @ 8% per annum on the awarded 

ID No. 07/11 Prakash Verma vs. M/s. Sony India Pvt. Limited, Page No. 49 out of 50 
 amount. Issue no.3 decided accordingly

46 RELIEF

 In view of my finding of issue no. 3, I direct M2 to 

reinstate the workman with continuity of service. M2 shall also 

pay 20% back wages to workman from the date of termination till 

the date of award with in 30 days of publication of award and if the 

M2 fail to make the payment it would be liable to pay interest @ 

8% per annum on the awarded amount. The reference is answered 

accordingly. Reference is answered accordingly. Copy of the 

award be sent to the Secretary (Labour) Government of National 

Capital Territory of Delhi for necessary instruction.