1. The matter is being heard for the purpose of

 consideration of the prayer for interim order. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioners, upon it

 being pointed out by learned counsel

 appearing for the private respondent/husband

 of the petitioner no. 1 that the relevant

 memorandum annexed at page 270 has not

 been assailed in writ petition, submits that the 2 dissatisfaction and affectation of the

 petitioners even with the memorandum

 annexed at page 270 pertaining to the

 cancellation of Aadhaar Cards of the

 petitioners as proposed by the Deputy

 Director of Ministry of Home Affairs has been

 mentioned in paragraph no. 2 of the writ

 petition. However, counsel submits that there

 has been an inadvertent omission to include a

 challenge to the said memorandum in the

 prayer portion of the writ petition. 3. Learned counsel submits that the respondent

 authorities, in blatant contravention of the

 provisions of law, have taken action on the

 basis of the memoranda impugned in the

 present writ petition as annexed at pages 270

 to 273 of the writ petition. 4. On the prayer of learned counsel for the

 petitioners, the learned Advocate-on-record

 for the petitioners is granted leave to amend

 the prayer portion of the writ petition by

 incorporating a challenge to the memorandum

 annexed at page 270 of the writ petition,

 bearing Memo no. 14051/96/2021-F.VI(i)

 dated October 18, 2022 as well. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioners, by placing

 particular reliance on the annexures to the writ

 petition and the supplementary affidavit filed

 by the petitioners, argues that the provisions

 of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the

 corresponding Rules of 2009 as well as the

 extant Regulations pertaining to Aadhaar

 Cards have been violated by the respondent

 authorities. During pendency of the writ

 petition, it is submitted, the Aadhaar Card of

 the petitioners have been deactivated, leading

 to their Voters' ID Cards as well as the PAN

 Cards having also been suspended

 consequentially. 6. Learned counsel submits that no reasonable

 enquiry as contemplated under Rule 29 of the

 Aadhaar (Enrolment And Update)

 Regulations, 2016 (2016 Regulations) has

 been given to the petitioners, nor has any

 copy of any field enquiry, which is mandatorily

 required under the said provision, been

 handed over to the petitioners. 7. It is submitted that the deactivation of the

 Aadhaar numbers of the petitioners had to be

 under Regulation 28 of the 2016 Regulations.

 However, the respondent authorities failed to 4 furnish any ground as contemplated under the

 said Regulation for suspending the Aadhaar

 Cards of the petitioners. 8. It is contended by learned counsel further that

 the provisions of the 2009 Citizenship Rules,

 in particular, Rules 26, 27 and 28, stipulate a

 specific modality for the purpose of depriving

 a person of citizenship of India. The provisions

 of Schedules II and III are also to be adhered

 to for such purpose, which has not been done

 at all in the present case. 9. It is argued that in the absence of any

 challenge to the citizenship of the petitioners

 and/or any steps having been taken in that

 regard, the respondents acted palpably

 without jurisdiction in deactivating the Aadhaar

 Cards without any plausible reason

 whatsoever. 10. Learned counsel appearing for the private

 respondent/husband of the petitioner no. 1

 submits that the said respondent has

 furnished sufficient documents to indicate that

 the petitioner no. 1 is a holder of Bangladeshi

 passport and other documents, including a

 Voter Card of Bangladesh, which clinch

 beyond any reasonable doubt the fact that the 5 petitioner no. 1 and her family are

 Bangladeshi citizens. Hence, the Indian

 Passport, Adhar Card, PAN Card and other

 documents were obtained fraudulently by the

 petitioner no. 1 and her entire family. 11. It is submitted that irrespective of the fact that

 a matrimonial litigation is going on between

 the private respondent and the petitioner no.

 1, the petitioner no. 1 is a citizen of

 Bangladesh and, as such, the memoranda of

 the Government of India which are under

 challenge in the writ petition were rightly

 issued in respect of the petitioner no. 1 and

 her family. 12. It is further submitted that the petitioners have

 not preferred any effective challenge in the

 prayer portion of the writ petition to the

 memorandum pertaining to the proposed

 cancellation of Indian Aadhaar Cards of the

 petitioners and, as such, no interim relief can

 be granted on such count. 13. Learned counsel submits that since the filing

 of a supplementary affidavit, incorporating

 certain subsequent facts regarding the de-

 activation of the Aadhaar Card, does not

 supplant the writ petition or the reliefs claimed 6 therein, no interim relief can be granted on the

 basis of such supplementary affidavit, insofar

 as the deactivation of the Aadhaar Card of the

 petitioner is concerned. 14. Learned Additional Solicitor General submits

 that there are several justifications for the

 deactivation of the Aadhaar Card of the

 petitioner. 15. It is contended that the Ministry of Home

 Affairs of the Government of India, upon

 having received reports from the Central

 Security Agency, which the Union is ready to

 present before the court if so directed, took

 the decision to cancel the Indian Aadhaar

 Cards of the petitioners, since those were

 fraudulently obtained by the petitioners, who

 are Bangladeshi Nationals. 16. It is further contented that it is within the

 domain of the State, as the sovereign, to take

 appropriate action in the event it transpires

 that a person who has fraudulently obtained

 documents of Indian citizenship turns out to

 be a national of a different country. 17. It is reiterated that dual citizenship is not

 approved by Indian law and, as such, the 7 impugned memoranda were rightly issued by

 the Government. 18. In any event, it is submitted that sufficient

 hearing was given to the petitioners and, as

 such, even the deactivation of Aadhaar Cards

 of the petitioners do not merit any interdiction

 by any interim order of this court. 19. Keeping in mind the constraints of the court

 while deciding on an interim prayer, the

 arguments of the parties are not elaborated

 further but will be dealt with presently in the

 order which is being passed hereunder. 20. The provisions under which the citizenship of

 an Indian citizen can be interdicted are

 provided in the Citizenship Act, 1955 . 21. Relevant to the present context are Sections 9 and 10 of the said Act. Section 9 speaks

 about termination of Citizenship and Section

 10 about deprivation of citizenship. 22. Needless to say, under the Act of 1955 read

 with Rules 26, 27 and 28 of the Citizenship

 Rules, 2009 framed thereunder and

 Schedules II and III, sufficient procedure has

 been laid out, keeping in view the tenets of

 natural justice, for the purpose of depriving or

 terminating the citizenship of a person. 8 23. However, at the present juncture, the high

 ground of termination of citizenship has not

 been invoked by the respondent authorities,

 since the petitioners are still in possession of

 valid passports. 24. Since the petitioners have not yet been

 deprived of their citizenship by the

 respondents, we need not look into the

 provisions of the Citizenship Act and the

 consequential Rules at this juncture. However,

 the citation of the said statute becomes

 relevant insofar as the present action of

 deactivating the Aadhaar Cards of the

 petitioners might have the consequence, de

 facto, of terminating the Indian citizenship of

 the petitioners, since the deactivation of their

 Aadhaar Cards has severe consequences on

 the petitioners' right to live a dignified life as

 enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of

 India and to pursue vocations under Article 19 of the Constitution of India. 25. Considering the provisions of the Aadhaar

 Regulations of 2016 in such context, we find

 that Regulation 27 thereof provides for cases

 requiring omission of Aadhaar number.

 However, the authorities have resorted to 9 Regulation 28(c) of the 2016 Regulations, as

 declared in the documents annexed to the

 pleadings. 26. As per the said provision, the Aadhaar

 number shall be deactivated where it is found

 at a later stage that enrolment has been

 carried out without valid supporting

 documents. The Aadhaar number in such

 context shall be deactivated till it is updated by

 the Aadhaar number holder after furnishing

 valid supporting documents. 27. The memorandum issued at page 270 of the

 writ petition does not speak in any manner

 about, or advert to, Regulation 28 or any other

 Regulations within the preview of the 2016

 Regulations. 28. The proposed cancellation of the Indian

 Aadhaar Card held by the petitioners, as

 suggested by the Ministry of Home Affairs,

 Government of India, is on the ground that

 apparently the Ministry has received report

 from the Central Security Agency that the

 petitioner no. 1 is a Bangladeshi national. 29. The said memorandum, surprisingly, does not

 disclose any iota of reference as to why the

 documents furnished by the petitioners while 10 obtaining the Aadhaar Cards showing the

 petitioners' Indian Citizenship are vitiated. 30. Even if we assume for the sake of argument

 that the petitioner no. 1's husband, against

 whom the petitioner no. 1 has initiated a

 matrimonial suit and an alimony application,

 furnished certain documents, which are

 purportedly documents of the petitioner no. 1's

 Bangladeshi nationality, there is no reason as

 to why ipso facto such documents, without

 further scrutiny, field enquiry and justified

 reasoning, would vitiate the documents

 produced by the petitioner no. 1 herself

 regarding her Indian Citizenship. 31. The presumption might have been otherwise if

 such documents regarding purported

 Bangladeshi Citizenship were discovered or

 recovered from the custody of the petitioners

 themselves. 32. In the present case, it is for the private

 respondent to prove beyond all reasonable

 doubt that the petitioners are Bangladeshi

 citizens and were so at the juncture when the

 documents-in-question, including the Aadhaar

 Cards etc. were issued in favour of the

 petitioner no. 1. 33. In the criminal proceeding initiated at the

 behest of the petitioner no.1's husband (the

 private respondent) against the petitioner no.

 1, a police report has been furnished by the

 police authorities. 34. A perusal of the same shows that even the

 Sub Inspector of Police of the concerned

 Police Station is unsure as to whether the

 petitioner no. 1 is a Bangladeshi national. The

 relevant extract of the said report indicates

 that the accused persons, that is, the

 petitioners, who are a family, are holding a

 number of documents pertaining to identity

 proof of the said persons with regard to their

 Indian citizenship as specifically showed at

 this present juncture. It is very difficult to

 prove, found the police in their report, that the

 petitioners are Bangladeshi nationals. 35. As such, even in the criminal proceeding, the

 police report itself indicates that the petitioner

 no. 1 and her family are in custody of several

 documents to prove their Indian Citizenship.

 The corresponding worth of the documents

 furnished by the petitioner no. 1 and her family

 on the one hand and the private respondent 12 on the other, pitted against each other, has to

 be decided by a competent authority. 36. Before such adjudication and/or a formal

 enquiry being undertaken, the respondent

 authorities cannot, in any manner, take away

 the basic rights of the petitioner no. 1 and her

 family as citizens of India, as in the present

 case. 37. The petitioner no. 1 and her husband, the

 private respondent, are locked in a legal battle

 and the acrimony is obvious. 38. Even Regulation 28(c) of the 2016

 Regulations states that where it is found at a

 later stage that enrolment has been carried

 out without valid supporting documents, the

 Aadhaar number may be deactivated. 39. In none of the communications made by the

 respondent authorities or the Ministry do I find

 any specific particular of the alleged fraud or

 suppression alleged to be perpetrated by the

 petitioners while furnishing the relevant

 documents for the issuance of the Aadhaar

 cards in their names. 40. Learned Additional Solicitor General right

 argues that particulars of fraud are required to

 be pleaded. However, we cannot put the cart 13 before the horse insofar as it is for the

 respondent authorities and the private

 respondent, who are alleging that the

 petitioners' Indian citizenship documents were

 obtained by a fraud, to prove the same for the

 purpose of taking away the rights of the

 petitioners as Indian citizens. 41. The inquiry contemplated under Regulation 29

 of the 2016 Regulations, as rightly argued by

 learned counsel for the petitioners, has two

 limbs. The first limb of the same is the field

 enquiry report, which shall be the primary

 basis of the decision to deactivate the

 Aadhaar card, which may or may not be

 supplemented by hearing being given to the

 petitioners. 42. In the present case, hearing was given to the

 petitioners. However, we do not find from the

 records that any field enquiry report was relied

 on by the authorities or copy thereof was

 furnished to the petitioners for the petitioners

 to deal with the same in due process of law. 43. Under Regulation 29(3) of the 2016

 Regulations, the authority may initiate

 necessary action upon receiving the report

 and the decision to omit or deactivate an 14 Aadhaar number shall be taken thereafter.

 Sub Regulation (2) stipulates that an agency

 nominated by the authority shall

 examine/inquire and submit a report to the

 authority as per the procedures as may be

 specified by the authority for such purpose. 44. We do not find any iota of any such inquiry

 report being furnished to the petitioners by the

 authorities to indicate that the provisions of

 Regulation 29 were complied with duly for

 deactivation of the petitioners' Aadhaar cards. 45. The challenge of the petitioners to all

 impugned the memoranda are on the same

 premise. The very basis on which the

 petitioners' Indian citizenship is being sought

 to be assailed by the respondents is the

 presumption that the petitioners are

 Bangladeshi nationals. 46. All the challenged memoranda ranging from

 pages 270 to 274 of the writ petition have

 been issued on the same premise. In view of

 such identity of the grounds of challenge in

 the present writ petition, it cannot be said that

 the petitioners, due to the initial failure to

 challenge the memo annexed at page 270

 pertaining to the Aadhaar card, are not 15 entitled to any interim injunction on such

 count. The deactivation of the Aadhaar cards

 of the petitioners during pendency of the writ

 petition is a necessary fall-out of the

 challenged memoranda dated October 18,

 2022. 47. Hence, the court cannot be said to be without

 jurisdiction in passing necessary interim

 orders in connection with the deactivation of

 the Aadhaar card and all consequential

 actions taken by the respondent authorities in

 terms of the impugned memoranda during

 pendency of the writ petition. 48. The relief, if granted on such score, shall only

 be in aid of the main relief sought in the writ

 petition. 49. In view of the above discussions, a sufficiently

 strong prima facie case has been made out by

 the petitioners to challenge the memoranda,

 insofar as the appropriate preceding steps

 were apparently not carried out by the

 respondent-authorities before issuing such

 memoranda. Insofar as the deactivation of the

 Aadhaar card during pendency of the writ

 petition is concerned, the same also prima

 facie appears to be de hors the procedure as 16 laid down in the 2016 Regulations pertaining

 to Aadhaar cards. 50. Accordingly, the deactivation of the

 petitioners' Aadhaar cards and all

 consequential action taken by the respondent-

 authorities shall remain stayed during

 pendency of the writ petition. 51. However, it is made clear that nothing in this

 order shall prevent the respondent-authorities

 from proceeding on the basis of the

 communication made in the memoranda

 under challenge in the writ petition, during

 pendency of the writ petition, subject to the

 rider that the respondents shall comply with all

 due procedure as stipulated in the concerned

 Statutes, including the Citizenship Act and

 other pari materia Statutes dealing with the

 fields covered by the said memoranda. 52. The respondents shall file their affidavits-in-

 opposition within November 24, 2023. Reply,

 if any, shall be filed within December 1, 2023. 53. The matter shall be listed for hearing on

 December 5, 2023. (Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, J.)