1. As declared by the petitioner, this is the first bail
application under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. for grant of bail. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that
the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the case. All the
allegations are false and frivolous. He has neither cheated the
complainant nor has prepared any forged document. He is in
jail since 08/09/2020. His custodial interrogation is not
required. He is a permanent resident of village-Silicon City,
Rajendra Nagar, Indore. There is no possibility of his
absconding. He is ready to comply with the conditions to be
imposed by the Court, therefore, he be granted bail. 3. Learned counsel further submits that the compromise
has been arrived at between the parties. The complainant has
no objection if the accused is released on bail and IA
No.6622/2020 has been filed by the complainant in this
regard. He further submits that from the facts, at the most,
only charge under Section 420 of IPC is made out against the
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 2 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

petitioner. The fact does not constitute the charges under Sections 467 & 468 of IPC. 4. Learned Public Prosecutor has objected to the petition.
It is stated that the petitioner is the main accused, who along
with other co-accused persons conspired to extort huge
money from the complainant. In the conspiracy hatched by
the perpetrators, the petitioner played a crucial and decisive
role to threaten the complainant and to force him to transfer
money from his (complainant) account to the petitioner's
account. The petitioner developed and created a malicious
software app (application) to display fake figures of huge
gain in the accounts of the investors and this amount to the
fabrication of fake and forged documents. Hence, Sections
467 & 468 of IPC attract and have added aptly in the present
case. 5. It is further submitted that it has also come in the
disclosure statement of the co-accused persons that they had
designed and created an application of their company and
used the same from their computer to display fake entries of
profit in the account of their victims. An identical case has
been registered against the accused persons, wherein they
have deceived a person hailing from Kolkotta. All the data
of the business of the companies of the petitioners is
encrypted, digitized and is saved in electronic form. A
computer of the company of the petitioners has been seized
by the police. The data of this computer has to be extracted,
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 3 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

decrypted, and decoded, which may excrete the many secrets
and the magnitude of the offence may rise many fold. The
police still have to trace the same. It is very easy for the
petitioners to corrupt or erase all such data and to destroy the
evidence of their complicity. The modes operandi of the
petitioners is that they target the people hailing from remote
places of the country. It is neither easy for those persons to
come across the truth nor for the police to trace them, to
prevent the repetition of the crime and to save the innocent
people. Therefore, it is prayed, that the petitioner be not
granted bail. 6. According to the prosecution case, complainant Chetan
Mahajan received a call on 13/12/2019 from mobile
No.77709-22489. The caller Manish told him that they run a
brokerage firm and he can earn huge profit by opening a
Demat account and trading in capital market with their firm.
Relying on his assurances, the complainant sent all necessary
documents to open a Demat account on 19/12/20019 on the
WhatsApp number of Manish and also transferred
Rs.15,000/- on 19/12/2019 and Rs.35,000/- on 20/12/2019 in
the account of G-Bulls. D-mat ID No. ZV2052 was provided
to him. Manish asked him to download the 'Venture Capital
App'. He followed the instruction. The application was
designed in such a manner that one can only add and cannot
withdraw the amount and can only watch but can not operate
or control the transactions. Manish assured him that they will
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 4 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

operate his account from their office. The firm started
trading from his account and he was watching it. The app
was continuously displaying profit in his account. On
31/12/2019, Manish gave him account number
919020038531256 of Axis Bank, Jhabua of some Navin, and
asked him to transfer the amount in this account. As his
Demat account was continuously displaying the profit and
Manish was also informing about the profit and some time
also about the loss, he believed in him and transferred the
money as per his instructions. In total, he transferred
Rs.13,50,000/- in the Axis Bank bank account. 7. After some time; Manish introduced Sudhir Upadhyay
mobile number 96445-89519 and recommended to trade
with his add and advise to earn more profit on the basis of
commission @ 35% from the profit to be earned. The
complainant agreed and they started trading with the advice
of Sudhir. The complainant deposited total Rs. 13,50,000/-
from time to time. Manish informed him that with the aid
and advice of Sudhir, they have earned a good profit. On
09/01/2020, they settled their account. It was informed that
the complainant has earned the profit of Rs. 26,00,000/-
lakhs. His Demat account was also displaying this amount.
Therefore, @ 35%, he deposited Rs. 68,000/- in the account
No. 375546842255 of Venture Capital maintained with the
SBI Branch Kesharbag, Indore as part payment. 8. After some time, his father suffered a heart attack. As
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 5 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

he was not permitted to withdraw the amount lying in his
account, he asked Manish and Sudhir to transfer the money
in his account. Pretending some technical issue, Sudhir asked
him to come to Indore personally. He came on 20/01/2020
along with his friend Shirish and as guided by Sudhir, stayed
in hotel Malwa Inn, Rajendra Nagar, Indore. He interacted
with Sudhir several times and asked for money, but he
procrastinated the payment for one reason or the other. At
about 2:00 am, Sudhir called him and informed that they
have to go somewhere to collect the money from some bank
officer. After some time, he came to the hotel, picked them
up in his car, and proceeded to some place. On their way,
Sudhir was continuously speaking to someone referring to
Silicon City and asking about money. After some time, they
reached at one place, where two persons handed over a black
colour loaded bag to Sudhir. It was pretended that the bag
was loaded with the cash to be given to the complainant.
Sudhir kept the bag in the dickey of the car and they started
for their hotel. 9. Just after 2-3 minutes, at a turn, three policemen came
out of a jeep standing alongside the road, stopped their car,
and inquired about their identity. Suddenly, Sudhir sped up
their car and did not stop it even when the complainant and
his friend requested him to do so. The police chased and
caught them. They beat them and checked their car. They
recovered the same black bag from the dickey of the car. The
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 6 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

policemen pretended as if they were suspecting that they
have committed some heinous crime. They were also
terrorizing them that they may go to jail. After some time,
some other persons came in a car. They introduced
themselves as Income Tax Officer and clicked their
photographs with the bag and the car. The complainant tried
to settle the matter with the policemen, but they demanded
Rs. 50 lakhs. After some negotiation, they agreed to accept
Rs. 20 lakhs to let them go and not to register any case
against them. As the complainant was not having money,
they agreed to pay the same after few days and left the place
with the black colour bag stating that if there will be no
report for the next 2-3 days, they will return their bag. They
directed Sudhir not to let the complainant go without
payment of money as agreed. 10. The complainant was not having the cash and and as
told, the bribe can not be paid by cheque, therefore, it was
decided that the complainant will deposit the money in the
account of Sudhir. He will withdraw and pay the same to the
policemen. Thereafter, the complainant transferred Rs. 12
lakhs in account numbers 375546842255 and
91802013289401 of Axis Bank's branch Rau. Sudhir assured
them that he will arrange and pay the rest of the money by
selling his car and gold chain and the complainant will return
the same after reaching home. After 2-3 days, Sudhir called
him and informed that the policemen were asking for the
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 7 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

balance amount. He asked to pay the same immediately. The
complainant transferred rupees 3 lakhs by borrowing the
same from the bank and requested him to adjust the balance
amount from his profit. 11. After a few days, one Navin called him and disclosed
that the entire incident was imitated and fictitious. He also
revealed that Gaurav, Pankaj, Shyamsunder Tiwari, and Ravi
Choudhary were involved in the incident and had played
different roles. The complainant approached the police with
a written complainant, which is registered as the present
crime and is under investigation. 12. It was found that Sudhir Upadhyay was running G-bull
and Venture Capital companies without any license or
permission from the SEBI. 13. An identical case bearing Crime No.411/2020 has also
been registered against the accused of this case Sudhir
Upadhyay and Gaurav Singh and 3 other accused persons
namely, Rajendra Choudhary, Ritesh Pandey, and Sagar
Dubey. In that case, also, Sudhir Upadhyay along with his
accomplices deceived the complainant hailing from Kolkata
in an identical manner. The accused persons of that case first
instigated the complainant to trade with them in the share
market. They displayed huge profit on the same fake app,
received several amounts and at the time of disbursing profit,
pretending some technical issue called the complainant in
Indore, showed him a bag loaded with the cash and suddenly,
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE 8 M.Cr.C. No.36370 of 2020 Sudhir Kumar Upadhyay Vs. State of M.P.

 organized a sham raid of the police and income tax, snatched
 the bag and also forced the complainant to hand over more
 money to exonerate him from the case to be made up by the
 police and Income Tax Department. In that case, the
 computer along with the CPU has been seized by the police.
 This, according to the learned Panel Lawyer, is sufficient to
 show that the accused persons are habitual offender and
 possibility cannot be ruled out that they might have deceived
 several other persons following the same modus operandi. 14. The compromise has not been submitted before the trial
 Court. In last few days, it has been experienced that some of
 the affidavits of the compromise filed on behalf of the
 complainant have been found forged and fabricated,
 therefore, this Court does not find any reason to consider
 affidavits of compromise filed directly before this Court and
 to take a decision based on such compromise. 15. Having regard to the nature, complexity, and gravity of
 the offence, the role played by the petitioner in the crime, the
 allegation made against him, the act attributed and the other
 facts and circumstances of the case, in the considered
 opinion of this Court, no case for granting bail is made out,
 therefore, the petition is dismissed. IAs pending, if any,
 stand closed.