SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Markandey Katju on Arvind Kejriwal.
DATE: 2015-11-21
SCORE: 91
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3tnnl3/markandey_katju_on_arvind_kejriwal/

--- POST TEXT ---

The Truth about Arvind Kejriwal

It is the time now for the Indian people to know the truth about that phenomenon called
Arvind Kejriwal, that 'miracle man',whom I had in an earlier post called a cunning fraud.
As I had mentioned in an earlier post, voting is done by our people in most states
usually on the basis of caste and religion. For instance, Mayawati has the scheduled
caste vote bank in U.P. ,Mulayam Singh and Lalu Yadav have the Yadav and some
other caste vote banks in U.P. and Bihar respectively, etc.

What is the vote bank of Kejriwal ? He has none. Even the banias ( Vaishyas ), the
business community, are divided, and moreover they are only 2-3% of the population.
So where will Kejriwal get his votes ?
Realizing this, like a realistic politician, he has targeted the sizeable Muslim voters. He
is determined to get the Muslim votes, at any cost. This is the reason why he rushed to
Dadri to show he is a sympathizer of Muslims, why he supported the Mahagathbandhan
in Bihar ( which was perceived by Muslims as anti-BJP ), and why he went to the extent
of embracing Lalu Yadav, at the oath taking of the new Bihar government.

Muslims were earlier Congress supporters. Their strategy has been to vote for the
strongest non BJP candidate, and the Congress party was perceived by them as the
only party which could prevent BJP from coming to power. But after the demolition of
Babri Masjid they left Congress, and joined Mulayam Singh in U.P. and Lalu Yadav in
Bihar. Later they again started moving towards Congress, but Congress became totally
discredited because of the numerous scams under the UPA governments., and so
Muslims, like other people, stopped supporting it. They then looked for another
alternative, and found one in AAP in the Delhi Assembly election of February 2015. So
they voted en masse for AAP.

However, public memory is short, and now many people have forgotten the scams
under Congress rule. And now the greatest fear of AAP, which has no other vote bank,
is that Muslims may again veer towards Congress. This is the reason why Kejriwal is
trying desparately to woo the Muslims and hold on to the Muslim vote bank..
Kejriwal came to power piggyback riding on Anna Hazare's movement against
corruption. But after coming to power he has shown his true colours, and become
totally dictatorial. It is evident that he cannot brook criticism or dissent against him
within his party. He ousted Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav, co founders of AAP,
because they objected to giving MLA tickets to some shady people, and one suspects
Kejriwal insisted in giving tickets to them as they had contributed a lot of money to the
AAP funds. He allocated a whopping Rs.536 crores in the Delhi budget ( 21 times last
year's figure ) for his self publicity advertisements in Delhi.

Like Don Quixote, Kejriwal has surrounded himself with Sancho Panzas, who never
criticize him.

As regards the major problems of poverty, unemployment, price rise, malnutrition,
healthcare and good education, I am afraid Kejriwal has no clue how to solve them,
except by resorting to stunts.. Of course he has promised many more schools and
hospitals, but which politician does not promise the moon ?

I have carefully studied Kejriwal's speeches and writings, and have come to the
conclusion that there is nothing in the man.. Kejriwal has no scientific ideas about how
to solve the massive problems facing the Indian people.

People of Delhi voted for AAP in February, 2015 because they were disgusted with both
BJP and Congress and wanted a change, just as Indians voted for Modi in May 2014
because they were disgusted with Congress and wanted a change.
What is there in Kejriwal ? I think he is only a demagogue, who has no real solution to
the peoples' problems, as people have themselves realized by now.

I read Kejriwal's book ' Swaraj '. In that book Kejriwal says that we must transfer power
from Delhi to the gram panchayats and mohalla panchayats. This is sentimental
nonsense. Everyone with even a little knowledge of social realities knows that most of
such panchayats are hotbeds of petty caste politics and centres of corruption. It is
general knowledge that officials ( or their kith and kin ) of gram panchayats have
illegally grabbed most of the gram sabha land, which was meant for public use of the
villagers ( as pointed out by me in my judgment in the Supreme Court in Jagpal Singh
vs. State of Punjab, 2011, which may be seen online ), and often do all kinds of other
misdeeds for the benefit of themselves or their kith and kin..What will transfer of power
to such casteist and corrupt bodies achieve ?

So Mr. Kejriwal, your days in the Indian political scene are numbered. People have seen
through your fraud.

Source: His FB page.