SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What are your perspectives on how the world perceives India?
DATE: 2024-06-02
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1d5xlq8/what_are_your_perspectives_on_how_the_world/

--- POST TEXT ---

This question on how the world perceives India is so contentious to bring up. 

On one hand we have India flexing its strategic autonomy geopolitically and trying to improve its relations with major powers in the world. 

On the other hand, there's the image of India that local people actually perceive. In all honesty, India doesn't have a great reputation abroad. 

One of my closest friends went to a top university in the US for his master's and he says this negative image of India is disseminated not only in American society but also nowadays in college campuses. And say what you will, I feel ashamed that my country has such a bad reputation abroad. People still perceive India as the land of street shi**ers, trash everywhere, little to no infrastructure, overpopulated and overcrowded streets and roads with constant non sensical honking, stray cows on the road, extremely horny men who rape any girl they see and that's why it's India is not a country made for women, bad pollution, distasteful smell, polluted rivers, one of the biggest sources of illegal immigrants in the US and the most vicious one is - the Scam Capital of the world. 

On top of that, the people got to represent us especially in the West are our beloved NRIs. A lot of them if not all will talk all trash about the USA - whining about its homelessness problem, high taxes, police brutality, racism etc. Well guess what, if the US is so bad why don't you come to India and live in the motherland. But they will never do that because deep down they know they can't trade all the great things and upward social mobility and economic opportunities that America presents them with coming back to India.

Now I don't know if people just want to be dismissive about any kind of criticism like some of our great politicians but in reality it hurts me a lot to see my country being represented like this in the world. I genuinely want the image of India to improve not only geopolitically but from a cultural, societal and economic standpoint as well.

How do you guys feel about all of this and what can we do to improve it? 

I think for starters - our ridiculously corrupt police and judiciary should stop these scammers from scamming old people in the US and Canada. All I see on my YouTube feed are these American youtubers who expose these scam call centres in India and record their rage and upload that to YouTube and they're getting millions of views on these videos in the US just solidifying the fact that Indian people are scammers who want to steal your money. I think that's the first step in the long chain of improvement...