PRAYER 1. The instant appeal preferred under Section 21(4) of the National

Investigation Agency Act, 2008 is directed against the impugned

judgment and order dated 18.08.2025 passed by the learned Special

Judge, NIA at Ranchi, in Miscellaneous Cr. Application No.1476 of 2025

[Special (NIA) Case No.02 of 2018] corresponding to R.C.

No.02/2018/NIA/DLI, arising out of Bero P.S. Case No.67 of 2016

registered for the offence under Sections 212 , 213 , 414 / 34 of the I.P.C., Section 17 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act and Sections 13 , 17 & 40 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, whereby and whereunder, the

prayer for regular bail of the appellant has been rejected. 1 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

PROSECUTION CASE & FACTS 2. The brief facts of the prosecution case leading to this Criminal

Appeal is that on 10.11.2016, a secret information was received by

Bindeshwari Das S.I. of Bero P.S. that Dinesh Gope, Supremo of PLFI, a

proscribed unlawful organization, was trying to deposit the ill-gotten

funds, collected through extortion/levy for further channelizing into white

money through his associates and being brought up by his associates in

a Safari car bearing registration number JH01V-2898 for depositing in

SBI Bero Branch. 3. Thereafter, a team was constituted under the leadership of Inspector

of Police Tetru Oraon of Bero circle and thereafter, the police team

including Bindeshwari Das, S.I. of Bero P.S. reached at SBI, Bero Branch

and covered the inner/outer vicinity of the said Branch and surveillance

on the suspects was initiated. Meanwhile, seeing the police party, three-

four persons tried to escape from the SBI Branch who were apprehended

by the police team. They disclosed their names as (i) Vinod Kumar (A-1), (ii) Chandrashekhar Kumar (A-2), (iii) Nand Kishore Mahto (A-3) and (iv)

Mohan Kumar @ Rajesh Kumar (A-4). It is alleged that on the personal

search of apprehended persons, cash of Rs.16 lacs were recovered from

Vinod Kumar (A-1), cash of Rs.38000 was recovered from

Chandrashekhar Kumar (A-2) and cash of Rs.09 lacs were recovered

from Nand Kishore Mahto (A-3). All currency notes (total Rs.25,38,000/-)

were of Rs.1,000/- denominations. The apprehended persons did not

produce any relevant document regarding recovered huge cash amount. 2 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

They admitted that the recovered amount is extorted/ black money

derived in the form of levy by the PLFI and they were trying to deposit the

same in the account of Petrol Pump to convert the same as legal money.

Thereafter, a case was registered at Bero P.S. bearing Bero P.S. Case

No. 67/2016 under Sections 212, 213 & 414 read with Section 34 of the

IPC, Sections 13 , 17 & 40 of the UA(P) Act and Section 17 of the CLA Act

against the said four apprehended accused persons. 4. Thereafter, Govt. of India, MHA (CTCR Division) vide order No.

11011/51/2017/IS-IV dated 16.01.2018 directed the National Investigation

Agency, Ranchi to take over the case of Bero P.S. No.67/2018 and

thereafter, the NIA re-registered case no. RC-02/2018/NIA/DLI dated

19.01.2018 and submitted 1st, 2nd & 3rd supplementary charge-sheets

against 19 accused persons including the present appellant, namely,

Fuleshwar Gope (A-17). 5. After obtaining the administrative approval of the competent authority

the case docket and case exhibits were transferred to the NIA by the

Investigating agency and accordingly investigation was taken up by the

NIA. 6. During the course of further investigation it surfaced that the

absconding accused Dinesh Gope (A-6), supremo of PLFI, continued to

channelize levy amount into legitimate means by depositing/transferring

into the bank accounts of his wives(A-13) and A-14 and associates by

using several Pragya Kendra operative through various banking channels

and also in the bank accounts of Companies opened in the name of his 3 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

wives(A-13), A-14, Sumant Kumar (A-7) and the present appellant

(Fuleshwar Gope) and accordingly, present appellant was arrested on

13.07.2020. 7. Accordingly, on 23.7.2020, 2nd supplementary charge-sheet was

submitted against the other accused persons including the present

appellant and he was arrayed as an Accused no.17 (A-17). 8. Consequently, the above-named appellant had preferred the regular

bail application vide Misc. Cr. Application No. 566 of 2022 before the NIA

Special Court, Ranchi for regular bail but the same has been rejected

vide order dated 19.05.2022, against which, an appeal being Cr. Appeal

(DB) No.767 of 2022 has been preferred before this Court but vide order

dated 21.03.2024 the same has also been rejected. 9. The present appellant against the said order dated 21.03.2024 has

preferred Special Leave Petition being SLP No. 7703 of 2024 before the

Hon'ble Apex Court but vide order dated 03.02.2025 the said petition has

also been dismissed. 10. Consequently, the above-named appellant had again preferred the

regular bail application vide Misc. Cr. Application No. 1476 of 2025 before

the NIA Special Court, Ranchi but the same has been rejected vide order

dated 18.08.2025, against which, the present appeal has been filed.

Submission advanced on behalf of the learned counsel for the

Appellant: 11. Learned counsel for the appellant has assailed the impugned order

on the following grounds: - 4 (v) It has further been contended that no case of criminal conspiracy

made out as there is no meeting of minds or intention with co-

accused to commit any terrorist activities or channelizing terror fund. (vi) It has also been contended that the prosecution has already

closed its evidence after examining 125 witnesses out of 152

witnesses. (vii) It has been submitted that the constitutional rights given under Article 21 will prevail over the statutory embargo provided under section 43(d)(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. (viii) The order passed by this Court to conclude the trial within one

year has not been complied with. Now, the case is at the stage of Section 313 Cr.P.C. (ix) The ground of parity has also been taken that fourteen accused

persons have already been granted bail, who have similar set of 5 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

 allegations of channelizing extortion money/ill gotten money of A-6-

 Dinesh Gope. 12. Learned counsel for the appellant, on the aforesaid premise, has

submitted that the learned court ought to have considered these aspects

of the matter, while considering the prayer for regular bail, but having not

been considered, therefore, the impugned orders need to be interfered

with. Submission advanced on behalf of the learned counsel for

Respondent-N.I.A. 13. Per contra, Mr. Amit Kumar Das, learned counsel for the

respondent-NIA has taken the following grounds by defending the

impugned order:- (viii) Learned counsel referring the aforesaid fact has further

submitted that the Hon'ble Apex Court has taken into consideration

the peculiar facts and circumstances of the instant case has denied

the bail and from the aforesaid finding of the Hon'ble Apex Court it is

evident that the case of the present appellant is on different footing

in compare to other accused persons, therefore the benefit of parity

cannot be extended to the present appellant. (ix) The applicant/accused Fuleshwar Gope (A-17), being a Director

and authorized signatory of A-20 (shell company), is liable for the

unlawful activities committed by the said company under the

principle of vicarious liability as enshrined in Section 22C of the

UA(P) Act, 1967. His position as an incorporator and operator of a

front company used for terrorist financing renders him culpable for

acts of criminal conspiracy, concealment of proceeds of terrorism, 8 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

 and participation in the unlawful objectives of PLFI. 14. Mr. Das, learned counsel for the respondent-NIA, based upon the

aforesaid grounds has submitted that no fresh ground, on facts as well as

on law except the period of custody, has been agitated herein by

renewing the prayer for grant of bail, hence, the instant appeal is also fit to

be dismissed. Analysis 15. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and considered the

finding recorded by learned Court in the impugned order as also the

charge-sheet and material available on record. 16. This Court, before proceeding to examine the prayer for bail of the

appellant, deems it fit and proper that the requirement as stipulated under Section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 is

required to be considered herein. Section 43(d)(5) mandates that the

person shall not be released on bail if the court is of the opinion that there

are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations made are prima

facie true apart from the other offences the appellant is accused of

committing offences under Sections 17 , 18 and 21 of the UA(P) Act, 1967. 17. The requirement as stipulated under Section 43D(5) of the UA(P)

Act, 1967 in the matter of grant of regular bail fell for consideration before

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of National Investigation Agency v.

Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali , [(2019) 5 SCC 1] wherein it has been held

by interpreting the expression "prima facie true" as stipulated under Section 43D(5) of the Act, 1967 which would mean that the 9 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

materials/evidence collected by the investigation agency in reference to

the accusation against the accused concerned in the First Information

Report, must prevail until contradicted and overcome or disproved by

other evidence, and on the face of it, shows the complicity of such

accused in commission of the stated offence. 18. It has further been observed that it must be good and sufficient on

its face to establish a given fact or the chain of facts constituting the

stated offence, unless rebutted or contradicted. The degree of satisfaction

is lighter when the Court has to opine that the accusation is "prima facie

true", as compared to the opinion of the accused "not guilty" of such

offence as required under the other special enactments. 19. It is, thus, evident from the proposition laid down by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in the case of National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor

Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) that while considering the ground of bail

under Section 43D(5) it is the bounden duty of the Court to apply its mind

to examine the entire materials on record for the purpose of satisfying

itself, whether a prima facie case is made out against the accused or not. 20. Before appreciating the contention of the learned counsel for the

parties, it would be apt to refer herein that earlier the prayer for bail was

made before the learned trial court by preferring Misc. Cr. Application No.

566 of 2022 before the NIA Special Court, Ranchi but the same has been

rejected vide order dated 19.05.2022, against which, appeal was

preferred before Division Bench of this Court being Cr. Appeal (DB) No.

767 of 2022 which has also been dismissed, vide order dated 21.03.2024. 10 2026:JHHC:2958-DB 21. Thereafter, the appellant preferred Special Leave Petition before the

Hon'ble Apex Court being SLP No. 7703 of 2024 but vide order dated

03.02.2025, the said petition has also been dismissed. 22. Thereafter, the present appellant again preferred Misc. Cr.

Application for bail before the Special Court being Misc. Cr. Application

No. 1476 of 2025 which has been dismissed vide order dated

18.08.2025, against which, the present appeal has been preferred. 23. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is evident that earlier this Court has

already rejected the prayer for bail of the present appellant, vide order

dated 21.03.2024 passed in Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 767 of 2022 on merit by

taking into consideration the evidence available on record as well as the

settled proposition of law. For ready reference, the relevant paragraphs

of the said order are being referred as under: 17.6: Revelations of the criminal conspiracy hatched among the
accused persons for channelizing the extorted money of PLFI
into legitimate means by depositing in the bank accounts of
individuals and dubious companies. 17.6.1: Besides the collection of the extorted money in the form
of levy, Dinesh Gope (A-6) invested the extorted money in the
dubious companies formed as part of the larger conspiracy plan 13 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

and on his direction, his associates/members of FLFI
channelized it in the alleged legal manner. It is pertinent to
mention here for this purpose, Dinesh Gope forms various
modules to operate for furtherance of his unlawful activities.
Initially extorted levy amount was getting converted through A-1
to A-4 and post arrest A-1 to A-5, he (A-6) assigned the same
task to another module having the same Modus-operandi, with
the association under the leadership the A-7. A-7 was holding
the post of director in M/s Bhavya Engicon Pvt. Ltd (A-18) and
M/s Shiv Aadi Shakti Minerals Ltd (A-19), with the purpose to
disguise the actual intention with the partnership of Shakuntala
kumari (A-13), alleged second wife of Dinesh Gope(A-6). A-13
also has been Sole Proprietor of a dubious un-registered
Company named Palak Enterprises. Hira Devi (A-14), first wife
of A-6 was joint director (another director is Fuleshwar Gope (A 17) of a Company namely, M/S Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt.
Ltd (A-20). The companies, mentioned above, have been used
for channelizing the funds (levy & extortion) of absconding
accused A-6. After getting funds directly from Dinesh Gope (A 6), Sumant Kumar (A-7) either himself or with active association
of Arun Gope (A-10), other associates of PLFI, and others,
deposited extorted money in the accounts of the above dubious
companies and approximately amount to the tune of approx. Ra
2,68,00,000/-(Rupees Two Crores Sixty Eight Lakhs only) were
channelized into legitimate means. 17.6.2: Sumant Kumar (A-7) in close association of Jitender
Kumar (A-11) hatched the criminal conspiracy in the name of
alleged surrender of A-6, self- styled supremo of PLFI with the
association of A-8, A-9 & A-12 and arranged/held meeting with
the political leaders. As per the plan of A-6, A-7 along with his
associates, were directly, deeply, discreetly involved in the
larger conspiracy and in the commission of the instant crime
and channelized the extorted amount into alleged legitimate
means by depositing the same in the bank accounts of family
members/close associates as well as companies owned by A-7,
A-13, A-14, A-17 or having partnership with them.
17.7.12: During scrutiny of the Axis Bank, Ashok Nagar, Ranchi
account number 916020046701699 in the name of M/S Shiv 14 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. (A-20). It is found that Rs.
23,50,000/- had been deposited/transferred from date of
account opening Le. August 2016 to April 2018. Out of the said
amount, Rs. 11,50,000/- were deposited in cash, Rs.
10,00,000/- were transferred from M/s Calvin Planners and
Investors Pvt. Ltd. (they took cash and transferred the money
through cheque) & Rs. 2,00,000/- from A-18. From the said
account, Rs. 12,60,000/- was paid to Birendra Kumar Dubey for
purchasing flat in Kolkata (in name of A-14). 17.12.12: Investigation has established that A-17 has conspired
with A-6, A-7, A-14 to form a company, A-20 along with A-14, to
form a dubious company A-20, to channelize the levy/extorted
funds into legitimate means by raising/depositing funds in the
bank account of A-20. 17.17: Offences established against accused Hira Devi @
Anita Devi (A-14): It has been proved that A- 14 had knowingly held the huge
amount of levy, collected through extortion by PLFI, and the
said levy amount were used for purchasing flat and her
personal use. A-14 has also knowingly hidden her identity for
the purpose of fraud and impersonation and opened a bank 15 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

account in Central Bank of India with a forged Aadhaar Card in
the name of Anita Devi for raising/collecting levy amount and
channelizing the extorted money. A-14, on the direction of A-6
and with association of A-1, A-7, A-10, A-15 & A- 16, was
deeply involved in the larger conspiracy and in the commission
of the instant crime by channelizing the extorted amount as per
the plan of PLFI. She knowingly held the amount
derived/collected through extortion/levy by PLFI operatives from
commission of any terrorist act (levy, extortion) or acquired
through the terrorist fund, and invested it into A-20 and her
individual bank accounts, for purchasing Flat and personal use.
A-14, on the directions of A-6 and with the association of A-1,
A-7, A- 10, A-13, A-15, A-16 and A-17, was deeply involved in
the larger conspiracy and in the commission of the instant crime
and was channelizing the extorted amount as per the plan of
PLFI.----- 17.20: Offences established against Fuleshwar Gope, the
present appellant (A-17): sheet it appears that there is prima facie allegation against petitioner
that he by making criminal conspiracy invested extortion money
collected by PLFI cadre on the direction of the PLFI supremo namely
Dinesh Gope (A-6) with the help of Shakuntala Kumari (A-13) , Hira
Devi alias Anita Devi (A 14) ,Sumant Kumar @ Pawan Kumar (A 7) ,
Chandra Shekhar Singh (A 9) which was used by the PLFI supremo
for anti-National activities challenging the sovereignty and integrity as
well as national interest of Government of India. 48. Thus from aforementioned paragraphs of 2nd supplementary
charge-sheet prima-facie it appears that the present appellant was
well acquainted with the facts that Dinesh Gope (A-6) is a terrorist
and chief of PLFI and collects levy through extortion and the
appellant, has criminally conspired with the members/associates of
PLFI, an Unlawful Association and terrorist gang proscribed by the
state of Jharkhand, namely Dinesh Gope (A-6), Sumant Kumar (A-7),
Hira Devi (A-14) and further on the directions of Dinesh Gope A-6, A-
17 (Fuleshwar Gope) the appellant, had formed a Company namely,
M/S Shiv Shakti Samridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd (A-20), in partnership with
Hira Devi (A- 14). Further appears that the present appellant on the
direction of Dinesh Gope (A-6), knowingly held the amount
derived/collected through extortion/Levy by PLFI and channelized it
into the bank account of M/s Shiv Shakti Samriddhi Intra Pvt. Ltd. (A 20). 49. Thus, prima-facie it appears that the present appellant on the
directions of Dinesh Gope (A 6) and with the association of Sumant
Kumar (A-7) and Hira Devi (A-14), was deeply involved in the larger 18 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

conspiracy and was channelizing the extorted amount as per the plan
of PLFI a proscribed terrorist organization. 50. The learned counsel for the appellant by referring to the
certificate issued by the Registrar of Company wherein Appellant is
shown as the Director of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. (A 20) has contended that the said document as has been appended by
way of a supplementary affidavit by the respondent NIA, cannot be
said to be the cogent evidence to implicate the appellant in the
commission of crime. 51. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent NIA has
submitted that that the said document which has been appended in
the supplementary affidavit is genuine and reliable as such the
contention regarding the genuineness of the document is totally
misplaced. 52. This Court, after appreciating the aforesaid argument, is of the
view that since this Court is to make out a prima-facie view based
upon the principle as provided under Section 43D(5) of the U.A.(P)
Act, therefore, is of the view that the genuineness of the document is
not looked into at this stage, rather, for the purpose of making a
prima-facie view, the document pertaining to creation of the said
company, prima-facie is available against the appellant. 53. Further, The learned counsel for the appellant has taken the
ground of parity and submits that the other co-accused person,
namely, Jitendra Kumar and Jai Prakash Singh Bhuiyan has been
directed to be released on bail by co-ordinate bench of this Court
vide order dated 08.05.2023 and 05.01.2024 passed in Cr. Appeal
(DB) No.514 of 2020 and Cr. Appeal (DB) No.14 of 2021
respectively. 54. The learned counsel for the appellant has further taken the
reference of the order dated 03.10.2023 passed in Cr. Appeal (DB)
No. 201 of 2020 by which accused persons namely Binod Kumar,
Chandra Shekhar Kumar, Nand Kishore Mahto, Mohan Kumar has
been granted bail. 55. In the backdrop of aforesaid contention, the learned counsel for
the appellant has submitted that since the other co accused persons
have already been granted bail, therefore the present appellant may
be enlarged on bail. 19 2026:JHHC:2958-DB 56. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent NIA has
submitted that the case of the instant appellant is on different footing
in comparison to the other accused persons who have already been
granted bail. It is further submitted that co-ordinate Bench of this
Court had denied the privilege of bail to another-co accused namely
Navinbhai Jayantibhai Patel in Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 556 of 2020 and
the case of the present appellant is nearer to the Navinbhai
Jayantibhai Patel, as such the present appellant is not entitled for the
bail on the instance of parity. 63. It is evident from aforesaid paragraph that the major charge,
which has been levelled against the Jai Prakash Singh Bhuiya, is that
of being involved in a larger conspiracy along with several other co
accused persons in channelizing the extorted money of Dinesh Gope
(A-6) into the account of Hira Devi @ Anita Devi (A-14) and other
persons. 64. Further so far, the other co-accused namely Jitendra Kumar is
concern the major charge, which has been levelled against him, is
that of being involved in a larger conspiracy along with several other
co-accused persons in channelizing the extorted money of Dinesh
Gope (A-6) into the account of Hira Devi @ Anita Devi (A-14) and
other persons. 65. Further, the allegation against the other accused persons namely
Binod Kumar(A-1), Chandra Shekhar Kumar, Nand Kishore Mahto
Rajesh Kumar @ Mohan Kumar that they are of being involved in
criminal conspiracy with the other accused persons more particularly
PLFI supremo - Dinesh Gope into channelizing the extorted money
into legitimate means. What would further be apparent is that the
appellants were acting as conduits in channelizing such ill-gotten
money. 66. This Court has already referred hereinabove the allegation
against the present appellant that he is one of the Director of the
Company in the name and style of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra
Pvt. Ltd. and prima facie allegation against present appellant is like
that he, by making criminal conspiracy invested extortion money
collected by PLFI cadre on the direction of the PLFI supremo namely
Dinesh Gope (A-6) with the help of Shakuntala Kumari (A-13) , Hira
Devi @ Anita Devi (A 14), Sumant Kumar @ Pawan Kumar (A 7) ,
Chandra Shekhar Singh (A 9), which was used by the PLFI supremo 20 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

 for anti-National activities challenging the sovereignty and integrity as
 well as national interest of Government of India. 67. The document has also been appended with the supplementary
 affidavit, issued by the Registrar of Company from whose Office the
 said Company has been registered. However, the genuineness of the
 said document has been questioned but since this Court is to make
 out a prima-facie view based upon the principle as provided under Section 43D(5) of the U.A.(P) Act, therefore, is of the view that the
 genuineness is not looked into at this stage, rather, for the purpose of
 making a prima-facie view, the document pertaining to creation of the
 said company by the Office, prima-facie is available against the
 appellant. 68. This Court, after taking into consideration the fact that this
 appellant was an active member of the Company in the capacity of
 one of the Director of the Company, i.e., M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi
 Infra Pvt. Ltd., while, on the other hand, the allegation against the co
 accused persons, is on different footing hence, is of the view that the
 principle of parity will not be applicable. 71. This Court, merely on the basis of the custody by taking the
 ground of violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the same
 since has already been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the
 case of Gurwinder Singh (Supra) even after taking into consideration
 the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of K.A.
 Najeeb (Supra), therefore, is of the view that the parameter which
 statutorily has been provided under Section 43D(5) is to be taken into
 consideration for the purpose of consideration of bail, if the allegation
 as per the material collected in course of investigation is found to be
 prima-facie untrue then only prayer for bail, can be considered.
 While, if the allegation has been found to be prima-facie true, the
 privilege of bail cannot be granted. 72. This Court, based upon the aforesaid reason, is of the view that
 the order passed by the learned court while rejecting the prayer for
 bail, suffers from no infirmity. 74. Accordingly, the instant appeal fails and is dismissed." 24. Thus, from the aforesaid paragraphs, it is evident that earlier the

prayer for bail of the preset appellant has been rejected by this Court 21 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

after due appreciation of the evidence available on record and further,

taking into consideration the culpability of the present appellant and his

nexus with extremist outfit. 25. Against the said order, the present appellant has preferred the

Special Leave Petition being SLP No. 7703 of 2024 before the Hon'ble

Apex Court but vide order dated 03.02.2025 the said petition has also

been dismissed, for ready reference, the order passed by the Hon'ble

Apex Court is being referred herein, which reads as under: 2026:JHHC:2958-DB 26. Thus, from the aforesaid it is evident that the Hon'ble Supreme

Court even taking note of the fact that bail has been granted to the

accused no.12, has dismissed the prayer for bail of the present appellant

and the Hon'ble Apex Court while dismissing the said petition has also

taken into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case

relating to the petitioner/present appellant. 27. It needs to refer herein that the Hon'ble Apex Court in a judgment

rendered in Gurwinder Singh Vs State of Punjab and Another reported in 2024 SCC OnLine SC 109 while taking into consideration the

judgment as rendered in National Investigation Agency v. Zahoor

Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) has observed that, the proviso to Sub-

section (5) of Section 43D puts a complete embargo on the powers of

the Special Court to release an accused on bail and lays down that if the

Court, 'on perusal of the case diary or the report made under Section

173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure', is of the opinion that there are

reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation, against such

person, as regards commission of offence or offences under Chapter IV

and/or Chapter VI of the UAP Act is prima facie true, such accused

person shall not be released on bail or on his own bond. 28. The Hon'ble Apex Court further observed that the conventional idea

in bail jurisprudence vis-à-vis ordinary penal offences that the discretion

of Courts must tilt in favour of the oft-quoted phrase - 'bail is the rule, jail

is the exception' - unless circumstances justify otherwise - does not find

any place while dealing with bail applications under UAP Act and the 23 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

'exercise' of the general power to grant bail under the UAP Act is

severely restrictive in scope. 29. In the aforesaid context, it has further been observed by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court that the Courts are, therefore, burdened with a sensitive

task on hand and in dealing with bail applications under UAP Act , the

courts are merely examining if there is justification to reject bail and the

'justifications' must be searched from the case diary and the final report

submitted before the Special Court. 30. In the aforesaid background, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held that

the test for rejection of bail is quite plain and Bail must be rejected as a

'rule', if after hearing the public prosecutor and after perusing the final

report or Case Diary, the Court arrives at a conclusion that there are

reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations are prima facie

true. It has further been observed that it is only if the test for rejection of

bail is not satisfied - that the Courts would proceed to decide the bail

application in accordance with the 'tripod test' (flight risk, influencing

witnesses, tampering with evidence). 31. In this background, the test for rejection of bail is quite plain. Bail

must be rejected as a 'rule', if after hearing the public prosecutor and

after perusing the final report or Case Diary, the Court arrives at a

conclusion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the

accusations are prima facie true. It is only if the test for rejection of bail is

not satisfied that the Courts would proceed to decide the bail application

in accordance with the 'tripod test' (flight risk, influencing witnesses, 24 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

tampering with evidence). This position is made clear by Sub-section (6)

of Section 43D , which lays down that the restrictions, on granting of bail

specified in Sub-section (5), are in addition to the restrictions under the Code of Criminal Procedure or any other law for the time being in force

on grant of bail. 32. At the cost of repetition, it needs to refer herein that the appellant

earlier prayed for bail before the learned trial court by preferring Misc.

Criminal Application No. 566 of 2022 but the same had been rejected

vide order dated 19.05.2022, against which, appeal was preferred being

Cr. Appeal (DB) No. 767 of 2022 which has also been dismissed, vide

order dated 21.03.2024. 33. Thereafter, the appellant preferred Special Leave Petition before the

Hon'ble Apex Court vide SLP No. 7703 of 2024, which was dismissed

vide order dated 03.02.2025. Thereafter, the present appellant again

preferred Misc. Cr. Application No. 1476 of 2025 which has been

dismissed, vide order dated 18.08.2025, against which, the present

appeal has been preferred. 34. The learned trial court in the order dated 18.08.2025 has taken into

consideration that prayer for bail of the appellant had already been

rejected up to the Hon'ble Apex Court. The Special Court while going

through the 2nd Supplementary Charge Sheet filed by N.I.A. dated

23.07.2020 has taken into consideration the culpability of the present

appellant. In the said 2nd Supplementary Charge-Sheet, the allegation

against the petitioner is that he is an associate of P.L.F.I. and he was 25 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

well acquainted with the facts that Dinesh Gope (A-6) is a terrorist and

Chief of a terrorist gang namely P.L.F.I. and collects / raises levy through

extortion. On the direction of said Dinesh Gope (A-6), accused/petitioner

(appellant herein) (A-17) formed a Company, namely, M/s Shiv Shakti

Samridhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. (A-20). The petitioner (A-17), on the direction of

A-6, knowingly held the amount derived/collected through extortion/Levy

by the members of P.L.F.I. (banned terrorist outfit) and channelized it

into the bank account of M/s Shiv Shakti Samridhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. (A-20).

Taking into consideration the aforesaid facts, the learned special court

has observed in the order impugned herein that a prima facie case is

being made out against the appellant on the basis of evidence collected

by the NIA during investigation. 35. Hence, the learned trial court, taking into consideration the

seriousness of the crime and role played by the petitioner, has rejected

the prayer for bail of the present appellant. 36. Thus, from the aforesaid factual aspect, it is evident that earlier this

Court has already considered the prayer for bail of the appellant, on

merit, and the said order has already been upheld by the Hon'ble Apex

Court and now, the learned counsel for the appellant has renewed the

prayer for bail of the present appellant upon the the ground of parity as

well as custody of the appellant who is languishing in judicial custody

since, 2020. Issue of long incarceration 26 2026:JHHC:2958-DB 37. At this juncture, it would be appropriate to refer herein that only the

long incarceration is not the ground to be looked into for enlarging the

accused on bail, rather, the accusation so made against the accused

persons as also societal impact is also to be taken care of. 38. It requires to refer herein that the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gurwinder Singh v. State of Punjab (supra) taking into consideration

the ratio of judgment of Union of India vs. K.A. Najeeb , (2021) 3 SCC

713 has observed that mere delay in trial pertaining to grave offences as

one involved in the instant case cannot be used as a ground to grant

bail, for ready reference, the relevant paragraph is being quoted as

under: 39. The Hon'ble Apex Court in its recent judgment in the case of Gulfisha Fatima versus State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi ) 2026 LiveLaw

 (SC) 1 while appreciating the implication of Article 21 vis-vis Section

 43D (5) of the Act 1967 and taking into the consideration the ratio laid

 down in the case of Gurwinder Singh v. State of Punjab (supra) has

 categorically observed that If prosecutions alleging offences which

 implicate the sovereignty, integrity, or security of the State, delay does 27 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

not operate as a trump card that automatically displaces statutory

restraint, for ready reference, the relevant paragraphs of the aforesaid

judgment are being quoted as under: 40. Thus, on the basis of the aforesaid settled position of law, it is

evident that mere delay in trial pertaining to grave offences, as one

involved in the instant case, cannot be used as a ground to grant bail. 41. There is no dispute and it cannot be disputed that the

jurisprudence of Article 21 has, as it develops, recognised various

facets to be intrinsic to the right to life and liberty such as speedy trial,

timely completion of investigation, fair trial etc. but at the same time

circumspection in granting the relief of bail in offences that harmful to

sovereignty and integrity of the nation such as in this case, stems from

a place of concern, understandably legitimate at that, about public

order, societal security, overall peace and the general deterrent force 29 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

in criminal law. 42. The scales of Justice must balance on the one hand-the

constitutionally consecrated and jealously guarded right under Article

21 and on the other, the recognition that individual liberty is not

absolute and is subject to just exceptions i.e. the paramount

considerations of national interest, sovereignty and integrity of the

nation. 43. There can be no manner of doubt on the proposition that Article 21 rights are placed on a pedestal, and rightly so, at the same

time, though, the individual cannot always be the centre of attention.

Certain cases such as the instant one demand, by their very nature

and effect that the issue presented is looked at from a much wider

point of view i.e., national security. We observe, therefore, that while Article 21 rights must always be protected, but however, in cases

where the security or integrity of the nation is called into question, the

long incarceration cannot be the sole ground of consideration. 44. The act of the accused persons must be looked at, on the

whole, and all relevant factors must be given due consideration while

granting or denying bail. Needless to add, any Court seized of bail

application(s) arising out of such offences must record, in their order

the reasons and factors that weighed with them in the ultimate

outcome. 45. In view of the discussion made above it is the settled fact that

the rights of an individual are always subservient to the nation's 30 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

 interest. 46. Further, in the case of Gurwinder Singh vs. State of Punjab (supra) and in the case of the Union of India vs. Barakathullah etc.,

 reported in 2024 INSC 452, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has expressed

 its concern to the threat raised by terrorist organizations and held that

 where the accusations against the respondents are prima facie true,

 the mandate contained in the proviso to Section 43D(5) of the UA(P)

 Act would become applicable and the accused would not be released

 on bail. 47. Herein, the learned counsel for the respondent NIA has

 submitted at Bar that in the instant case, the evidences have already

 been closed and trial is at the stage of 313 Cr.P.C and if the present

 appellant is allowed to be released on bail, then, he will get all

 opportunities to tamper with the evidence as well as influence the

 witnesses or he may abscond. 48. On the basis discussion made hereinabove, the contention of

 learned counsel for the appellant that appellant is eligible for bail on

 the ground of custody, is not fit to be accepted. Issue of parity 49. Further, the learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that

after 03.02.2025, i.e., when prayer for bail of the present appellant has

been rejected, the other co-accused person who are similarly placed

namely, Sumant Kumar (A-7), Shakuntla Kumari (A-13) and Herra Devi 31 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

(A-14) have been directed to be released on bail by the Hon'ble Apex

Court and by co-ordinate Bench of this Court. 50. In the backdrop of aforesaid contention, the learned counsel for the

appellant has submitted that since, the other similarly placed co-accused

persons have already been granted bail, therefore, the present appellant

may be enlarged on bail. 51. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent-NIA has

submitted that the case of the instant appellant is on different footing in

comparison to the other accused persons, against whom, parity has

been claimed. 52. In the backdrop of the aforesaid contention, this Court is now

proceeding to examine the issue of parity. The law is well settled that the

principle of parity is to be applied if the case of the fact is exactly similar,

then, only the principle of parity will be applied in the matter of passing

order but if there is difference in between the facts, then, the principle of

parity, is not to be applied. 53. It is further settled connotation of law that Court cannot exercise its

powers in a capricious manner and has to consider the totality of

circumstances before granting bail and by only simply saying that

another accused has been granted bail, is not sufficient to determine

whether a case for grant of bail on the basis of parity has been

established. 32 2026:JHHC:2958-DB 54. Further, the Hon'ble Apex Court in Tarun Kumar Versus

Assistant Director Directorate of Enforcement, reported in (2023)

SCC OnLine SC 1486 has observed that parity is not the law and while

applying the principle of parity, the Court is required to focus upon the

role attached to the accused whose application is under consideration. 55. It needs to refer herein that the Hon'ble Apex Court on 03.02.2025

while rejecting the prayer for bail of the present appellant has taken into

consideration the fact that the bail has been granted to co-accused

(Accused No.12) by a Coordinate Bench of the Hon'ble Apex Court on the

very same day and even thereafter, the prayer for bail of the present

appellant has been rejected and while rejecting the bail, the Hon'ble Apex

Court has categorically observed that "in the peculiar facts and

circumstances of the instant case relating to the petitioner, we are not

inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail" 56. In the light of aforesaid settled position of law and factual aspect

this Court has examined the allegations, as have been alleged against the

present appellant vis-à-vis, the other co-accused, against whom, parity

has been claimed. 57. It is evident from the perusal of charge-sheet that NIA in the

investigation found that the present petitioner (A-17) on the direction of

Dinesh Gope (A-6), knowingly held the amount derived/collected through

extortion/Levy by PLFI and channelized it into the bank account of M/s

Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt Ltd (A-20) which is mentioned in various

paragraphs of the 2nd supplementary charge-sheet. 33 2026:JHHC:2958-DB 58. Thus, from perusal of the charge-sheet, it appears that Dinesh Gope

(A-6) channelized levy amount into legitimate means by depositing/

transferring into the bank accounts of his wives A-13 and A-14 with the

help of the present appellant. 59. This Court has already taken note of the allegation against the

present appellant while earlier rejecting the prayer for bail of the present

appellant that he is one of the Director of the Company in the name and

style of M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd. and prima facie

allegation against present appellant is like that he, by making criminal

conspiracy invested extortion money collected by PLFI cadre on the

direction of the PLFI supremo namely Dinesh Gope (A-6) with the help of

Shakuntala Kumari (A-13) , Hira Devi @ Anita Devi (A 14), Sumant

Kumar @ Pawan Kumar (A 7), which was used by the PLFI supremo for

anti-National activities challenging the sovereignty and integrity as well

as national interest of Government of India. 60. This Court, after taking into consideration the fact that this appellant

was an active member of the Company in the capacity of one of the

Directors of the Company, i.e., M/s. Shiv Shaktisamridhhi Infra Pvt. Ltd.,

while, on the other hand, the allegation against the co-accused persons,

is on different footing as it is apparent from record that they were

assisting the present appellant in investing extortion money collected by

PLFI cadre. It appears from the material available on record that the

present appellant played a pivotal role in operating the financial module

of PLFI and he, knowingly held and moved terror funds under the pretext 34 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

of company operations, thereby, enabling the PLFI to sustain its unlawful

activities and further its secessionist objectives, hence, is of the view that

the principle of parity will not be applicable. 61. Further, this Court is of the view that since, in the instant case trial is

at fag end and further, this Court has already expressed its view on merit

in earlier appeal which has been filed by the appellant for prayer of bail,

therefore, it is considered view of this Court that it is not required for this

Court to reiterate its view on merit. 62. This Court, merely on the basis of the custody by taking the ground

of violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the same since has

already been dealt with by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gurwinder Singh (Supra) even after taking into consideration the

judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of K.A. Najeeb (Supra), therefore, is of the view that the parameter which statutorily has

been provided under Section 43D(5) is to be taken into consideration for

the purpose of consideration of bail, if the allegation as per the material

collected in course of investigation is found to be prima-facie untrue then

only prayer for bail, can be considered. While, if the allegation has been

found to be prima-facie true, the privilege of bail cannot be granted. 63. This Court, based upon the aforesaid reason, is of the view that the

order passed by the learned court while rejecting the prayer for bail,

suffers from no infirmity. 64. On basis of the discussion made hereinabove and taking into

consideration that this Court has earlier expressed its view on merit with 35 2026:JHHC:2958-DB

regard to the prayer for grant of bail of the present appellant which has

not been interfered with by the Hon'ble Apex Court and further there is

no vital change in circumstances as no fresh ground has been agitated

herein as also taking into consideration the submission advanced on

behalf of the respondent-NIA that the trial is at fag end, this Court is of

the view that the order impugned dated 18.08.2025 passed in Misc.

Criminal Application No. 1476 of 2025 requires no interference. 65. Accordingly, the instant appeal fails and is, dismissed. 66. Pending Interlocutory Application(s), if any, also stands dismissed. 67. It is made clear that any observation made herein will not prejudice

the case of the appellant in course of trial and view as expressed by this

Court is only limited to the instant appeal. (Sujit Narayan Prasad, J.)

 I Agree

(Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

 (Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, J.)

 04/02/2026

 Rohit/-A.F.R.

 Uploaded on 05.02.2026 36