In this writ petition, challenge has been made to the

 Audit Assessment Order dated 22.9.2011 passed by opposite party

 No.3-Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax (LTU), Sambalpur Range,

 Sambalpur (for short, "Assessing Authority") under Rule 12(3) of

 Central Sales Tax (O) Rules, 1957 [for short, "CST (O) Rules"] for the

 period 06.07.2006 to 31.03.2009 on the ground that such order of 2 assessment is illegal, arbitrary, violative of principle of natural justice

and Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 2. Petitioner's case in nutshell is as follows: According to the provisions of Rule 12(3)(h) of the CST(O) Rules, the

assessment proceeding on the basis of tax audit report has to be

completed within a period of six months from the date of receipt of the

audit visit report provided if for any reason the assessment is not

completed within six months the Commissioner may on the merit of

each case allow such further time not exceeding six months for

completion of the assessment proceedings. The petitioner believed that

the assessment order would be passed by the opposite party no.3

before 06.04.2011, i.e., within the period of limitation of six months as

provided under Rule 12(3) of the CST(O) Rules. However, the Assessing

Authority did not pass any assessment order by that date. While the

matter stood thus, the petitioner was served with a notice on

25.06.2011, for the first time, informing that the opposite party no.3

would also be relying on another report dated 02.5.2011 to complete 3 the assessment proceedings. Pursuant to the said letter, the petitioner

appeared on 14.7.2011 and sought for copies of the aforementioned

report and reiterated its request again on 22.7.2011. Since the copy of

the said report dated 2.5.2011 was not supplied to the petitioner, it

approached this Court in W.P.(c) No.21697 of 2011 which was

disposed of on 29.8.2011 with the direction that the Assessing

Authority shall specify the required documents needed for completion

of the proceedings in terms of Annexure-18 and the petitioner shall

furnish the same within one week. Thereafter, the petitioner would be

entitled to obtain certified copies of the tax evasion report along with

its Annexures on deposit of requisite cost and the Assessing Authority

shall give reasonable opportunity of hearing to the petitioner. On

12.9.2011, as directed by the Assessing Authority, the petitioner

appeared before him and the Assessing Authority directed the

petitioner to deposit a sum of Rs.24,540/- for obtaining a copy of the

tax evasion report along with the Annexures. After deposit of required

fees the certified copy of the fraud case report dated 2.5.2011 in 20

volumes comprising of more than 4000 pages were supplied to the

petitioner-Company on 14/15.09.2011. The assessment proceeding

was adjourned to 21.9.2011. On 21.9.2011, the petitioner appeared

before the Assessing Authority and prayed for time. Since the

petitioner did not produce its books of account/documents on

21.09.2011, the learned Assessing Authority passed the impugned

order of assessment on 22.9.2011 assessing tax to the tune of

Rs.26,95,22,434.69 and penalty amounting to Rs.52,65,09,727.38 and 4 issued demand notice for a total amount of Rs.78,97,64,591.00.

Hence, the present writ petition. 3. Mr. V. Raman, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the

petitioner submits that the assessment order passed under Rule 12(3)

of the CST(O) Rules is illegal, arbitrary and violative of principle of

natural justice and Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The

Assessing Authority has not supplied to the petitioner the list of

specific documents as mentioned in Annexure-18 pursuant to the

order of this Court dated 29.8.2011 passed in W.P.(C) No.21697 of

2011. The Assessing Authority on 12.9.2011 had sought for freight

payments details and weighment slips which were already produced

before opposite party no.3. No reasonable opportunity of hearing was

afforded to the petitioner as directed by this Court in the earlier writ

petition. It is settled law that if any person is likely to be affected by

the use of any material against him that is to be brought to his notice

for rebuttal. This is the requirement of natural justice. The impugned

order of assessment has been passed in gross violation of principles of

natural justice as the learned Assessing Authority supplied the report

dated 02.5.2011 on 14.09.2011 in 20 volumes containing 4000 pages

and completed the assessment within 8 days, i.e., on 22.9.2011. The

impugned assessment order has not been passed on the basis of the

audit visit report dated 30.09.2010 but on the basis of the Vigilance

report dated 02.05.2011 and thus the assessment order is one falling

under Rule 12(4) of the CST(O) Rules read with Section 43 of the OVAT

Act. In that event, the period of limitation is 5 years and it is not six 5 months or one year as applicable to audit assessment. The order of

assessment passed under Rule 12(3) of the CST(O) Rules is ab initio

void as the same has not been passed exclusively on the basis of the

Audit Visit Report dated 02.05.2011. The assessment order suffers

from the vice of arbitrariness inasmuch as the same has been made by

generalizing the entire claim of stock transfer on the strength of some

transactions in complete disregard to the law laid down by the

Supreme Court in Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. vs. Asst .

Commisioner of Commercial Taxes, Jamshedpur and others, (1970) 26

STC 354, wherein it has been held that each and every transaction

ought to be examined and it is not permissible to generalize the entire

claim of branch transfer in respect of all the transactions on the basis

of some transactions. This conduct of the Assessing Authority shows

mala fide intention to harass the petitioner-Company by saddling with

exorbitant tax and penalty. Since there is no allegation of concealment

or misrepresentation or mens rea by the petitioner-Company,

imposition of penalty of two times of the tax assessed is illegal,

arbitrary and contrary to law and hence the same is liable to be

quashed. Rule 12(3) and Rule 12(4) of the CST(O) Rules provide for a

very harsh procedure of fixing tax liability which is violative of Article

14 of the Constitution of India for which the said Rules are liable to be

quashed. The mandatory provision under Rule 12(3) of the CST (O)

Rules for levy of penalty at the rate of twice the tax assessed is the

most arbitrary and unguided power conferred upon the Assessing

Officer and it violates the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 6 14 of the Constitution of India. Every transaction of the petitioner-

Company is duly reflected and documented in the books of account.

The alleged investigation reports have attempted to state that the

transactions of stock transfer are not actually stock transfer, but

interstate sales which is not correct. 4. It is further argued that law is well settled that once it is a

stock transfer, the petitioner is under an obligation to reverse the

entire input tax credit. In the present proceedings, the petitioner has

reversed an input tax credit of Rs.7.55 crores for the relevant

transactions. The petitioner has effected stock transfer and collected

the declaration Form "F" and duly filed with the Department. Instead

of effecting stock transfer, had the petitioner effected interstate sales

against declaration Form "C", the total tax for the disputed transaction

would have been Rs.13.08 crores, and in that case , the petitioner

would have utilized entire amount of CST by utilizing input tax credit.

Thus, there is no revenue loss to the State of Orissa. In addition to the

reversal of ITC in the State of Orissa, the petitioner had paid local VAT

in all States across the country and there is no loss to the government

exchequers in any manner. On the contrary, there is surplus

contribution of revenue by the petitioner-Company. 5. M. R.P. Kar, learned counsel appearing for the Revenue

supporting the order of assessment passed by the Assessing Authority

vehemently argued that there is no infirmity or illegality in the

impugned assessment order. The assessment having been completed

under Rule 12(3) of the CST(O) Rules read with Section 42 of the OVAT 7 Act, the Assessing Authority has no option but to complete the

assessment during the period of limitation provided in Rule 12(3) of

the CST(O) Rules. The Assessing Authority has not committed any

illegality in utilizing the fraud reports submitted by the Vigilance wing

in the audit assessment proceedings. With the above submissions, Mr.

Kar vehemently urges for dismissal of the writ petition. 6. In the alternative, Mr. Kar makes a prayer that in case the

Court comes to the conclusion that reasonable opportunity of hearing

has not been afforded to the petitioner-Company and/or that the

Assessing Authority has no power/authority to utilize the report

submitted by the Vigilance Department in making audit assessment,

the matter may be remanded to the Assessing Authority to make the

assessment afresh and in that event the petitioner-Company should

give an undertaking that it will not take any technical points with

regard to the limitation or validity of the re-assessment proceedings.

Pursuant to the said submission of Mr. Kar, the petitioner files an

affidavit inter alia stating that it agrees to file a statutory appeal in

terms of Section 77 of OVAT Act against that part of the impugned

order levying tax on the strength of audit visit report dated 30.9.2010.

The petitioner further undertakes to appear before opposite party no.3

to complete the adjudication proceeding as this Court may be pleased

to set aside that portion of the assessment order passed on the

strength of vigilance report dated 2.5.2011. The petitioner also

undertakes by way of affidavit that at no point of time the bar of

limitation of one year fixed in terms of Rule 12(3)(h) of the CST (O) 8 Rules shall be raised or agitated in the adjudication proceedings after

the impugned assessment order dated 22.9.2011 is set aside. 7. On the above rival contentions, the questions that fall for

consideration by this Court are as follows:- 8. Question nos.(i) to (iii) being interlinked, they are dealt

with together. The scheme of VAT Act provides various types of

assessment for the purpose of determination of tax liability under the OVAT Act . Such assessments are self assessment ( Section 39 ),

provisional assessment ( Section 40 ), audit assessment ( Section 42 ),

escaped assessment ( Section 43 ), assessment of dealer who being

liable to pay tax fails to register ( Section 44 ), assessment of casual

dealer ( Section 45 ). Similarly, in Rule 12 of the CST (O) Rules provides

various types of assessment including audit assessment and

assessment of escaped turnover. In the present case, we are concerned

with the audit assessment and assessment of escaped turnover. 9. Section 2(6) of the OVAT Act defines "Audit Assessment" 10. An audit assessment is required to be completed within a

period of six months from the date of receipt of the audit visit report.

If, for any reason, the assessment is not completed within the time

specified, the Commissioner may, on the merit of each such case,

allow such further time not exceeding six months from completion of

the assessment proceeding. However, no order of assessment shall be

passed after expiry of one year from the date of receipt of the audit

visit report. Thus, the maximum period to complete the audit

assessment provided under Rule 12(3)(h) read with Section 42 (7) of

the OVAT Act is one year from the date of receipt of the audit visit

report. Perusal of the Rule 12(3) and Sec. 42 makes it clear that audit

assessment has to be completed on the basis of the materials available

in the audit visit report. Therefore, no other material can be utilized

while making audit assessment. Thus, there was no scope for the

Assessing Authority to utilize any materials other than the materials

available in the audit report while making the audit assessment under

Rule 12(3) of the CST (O) Rules read with Section 42 of the OVAT Act.

Since in the present case the impugned assessment order has been

passed under Rule 12(3) of the CST(O) Rules, the assessment is

certainly an audit assessment and the Assessing Authority is obliged

under the statute to make the audit assessment on the basis of

materials available in audit report. The Assessing Authority cannot 11 travel beyond the materials available in the audit report. Utilization of

any other materials from any other sources in audit assessment is

completely foreign to audit assessment and the same is not

permissible. 11. Apart from the above, under the scheme of assessment, audit

assessment under Rule 12(3) of CST(O) Rules read with Section 42 of

OVAT Act and escaped assessment under Rule 12(4) of the CST(O) Rules

read with Section 43 of OVAT Act are separate and distinct. So far as assessment of escaped turnover is concerned, it

is only where, after a dealer is assessed under sub-rules (1), (2) or (3)

of Rule 12 for any tax period, the Assessing Authority, on the basis of

any information in his possession is of the opinion that the whole or

any part of the turnover of the dealer in respect of any period or

periods has escaped assessment or has been under-assessed or has

been assessed at a rate lower than the rate at which it is assessable or

that the dealer has been allowed wrongly any deduction from his

turnover or exemption under the Act or has been wrongly allowed to

set off of input tax audit in excess of the amount admissible in clause (c) of the sub-rule (3) of Rule 7 of these Rules, he shall serve a notice in

Form IV(a) on the dealer for the purpose of making assessment on

escaped turnover. Sub-rule (e) of Rule 12(4) of the CST(O) Rules

provides that no order of assessment shall be made under Rule 12(4)

after expiry of 5 years from the end of the tax period in respect of

which the tax is assessable. 12. Thus, the audit assessment and assessment of escaped

turnover cover separate and distinct field for the purpose of

assessment. While in the case of audit assessment, the maximum

period of limitation is one year, in the case of assessment of turn over

escaping assessment, the period of limitation is 5 years. Both the

assessments have to be completed within the respective period of

limitation as provided under the statute. As stated above, while

making audit assessment as provided under Rule 12 (3), the Assessing

Authority has no power/authority to utilize any material against the

dealer other than the materials available in the audit report. Therefore,

the period of 5 years provided under the statute for completing

assessment of escaped turnover cannot be restricted to one year as

provided in case of audit assessment. 13. Law is well settled that when the statute requires to do

certain thing in certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not

at all. Other methods or mode of performance are impliedly and

necessarily forbidden. The aforesaid settled legal proposition is based

on a legal maxim "Expressio unius est exclusion alteris", meaning

thereby that if a statute provides for a thing to be done in a particular

manner, then it has to be done in that manner and in no other

manner and following other course is not permissible. (See Taylor v.

Taylor, (1876) 1 Ch.D.426; Nazir Ahmed v. King Emperor , AIR

1936 PC 253; Ram Phal Kundu v. Kamal Sharma ; and Indian

Bank's Association v. Devkala Consultancy Service , AIR 2004 SC

2615). 14. In view of the above, the Assessing Authority is not

justified in utilizing the fraud report dated 2.5.2011 against the

petitioner-dealer while making audit assessment on the basis of audit

visit report dated 30.9.2010. 15. Question no.(iv) is as to whether the impugned assessment

order has been passed in gross violation of principles of natural justice

and disobedience to the order passed by this Court on 29.8.2011 in

W.P.(C) 21697 of 2011. Undisputedly, the petitioner was supplied with

a copy of the report dated 2.5.2011 on 14.9.2011 and the assessment

was completed on 22.9.2011, i.e., within 8 days from the date of

supply of copy of the report. It is stated by the learned Senior Advocate for the

petitioner that the said report comprises of 20 volumes covering more

than 4000 pages. There is no denial by the Revenue to such statement.

From the assessment order we also find that one of the reasons given

by the Assessing Authority to complete the assessment hurriedly is

that since the extended period of assessment allowed under Rule 12(3) (h) of the CST(O) Rules by the C.C.T.(O), Cuttack vide Memo No. 4940

dated 23.3.2011 was going to be expired on 30.9.2011, he did not find

any alternative but to complete the assessment ex parte to the best of

his judgment. This being the position, it is difficult to accept that

reasonable opportunity was afforded to the petitioner to rebut the

charges raised against him in the report dated 2.5.2011. Further, this

Court vide order dated 29.8.2011 passed in W.P.(C) No. 21697 of 2011

has categorically observed that the Assessing Authority shall provide 14 reasonable opportunity of hearing to the petitioner and if he does not

participate, the Assessing Authority shall proceed in the matter in

accordance with law. Reply to a fraud report is a vital piece of material to be

considered for making assessment. Giving opportunity to the dealer to

file his reply to the fraud report is not an empty formality. The causal

approach to such requirement is not at all permissible. The dealer has

a right to receive the report submitted by any person/agency against

him, if the same is intended to be utilized against him. He has also

right to avail a fair opportunity to meet, explain and controvert such

allegation before he is condemned. Both dictate providing of

reasonable opportunity as well as to follow principles of natural

justice, which requires that before the Assessing Officer comes to his

own conclusion, the dealer should have an opportunity to reply the

report submitted against him. 16. In the instant case, giving 8 days time to explain the

allegations raised against the dealer-petitioner in the report dated

02.05.2011 which is in 20 volumes covering more than 4000 pages

cannot be said that reasonable opportunity of being heard has been

afforded to the petitioner before passing the impugned order of

assessment. 17. Question No.(v) is as to whether the Assessing Authority is

justified in passing impugned assessment order by generalizing the

entire claim of stock transfer on the strength of findings arrived at on

scrutinizing some transactions of stock transfer. Needless to mention 15 that while examining the transaction of stock transfer, the Assessing

Authority is required to examine each and every transaction to find out

the genuineness of the claim. Law is well settled that the onus of

proving always lies upon the taxing authority to show that a particular

sale or sales is/are exigible to tax under the Act. Therefore, while

examining the genuineness of the stock transfer, each individual

transaction has to be examined. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tata

Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd. (supra), held as follows: 18. In view of the above legal position and our observations

made hereinabove supra, we set aside the impugned order of

assessment dated 22.9.2011 passed for the period from 6.7.2006 to

31.03.2009 with a direction to the Assessing Authority to pass the

Audit Assessment order afresh exclusively on the basis of Audit visit

report within a period of four weeks from the date of appearance of the

petitioner-dealer before him for this purpose which is fixed to 16 20.12.2011. If the petitioner-dealer is aggrieved of the audit

assessment order it may prefer statutory appeal. On the date of

appearance of the petitioner on 20.12.2011, the Assessing Authority

shall serve notice on the petitioner-dealer in the prescribed form for

the purpose of making assessment under Rule 12(4) of CST(O) Rules.

Needless to mention that the Assessing Authority shall complete the

assessment under Rule 12(4) of CST(O) Rules after affording

reasonable opportunity of hearing to the petitioner-dealer and shall

examine petitioner's claim of branch transfer keeping in mind the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tata Engineering

Locomotive (P) Ltd. (supra). 19. With the above observations/directions the writ petition is

disposed of. .............................. B.N. Mahapatra,J. .................................. V. Gopala Gowda,C.J. Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 2nd December, 2011/ssd/ss/skj