“Let’s say you join as the Chief Privacy Officer of a finance company, let’s call it B-Finance, which has been spamming people quite a lot in India. Day one, what would you do when you’re dealing with the vast amount of datasets that are being operationalized and the sources of that data are not even known and the entire business model of that company depends heavily on that spamming that happens,” MediaNama Founder and Editor Nikhil Pahwa asked the speakers at the PrivacyNama 2023 conference held on October 26-27. Pahwa’s question comes in the context of India’s recently enacted Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act, 2023 which places restrictions on the collection and processing of personal data by companies.

This discussion was organised with support from Meta, PhonePe, Google, and Salesforce, and in partnership with CUTS and the Centre for Communication Governance.

Adding another layer of complexity to the example given earlier, Pahwa asked the speakers what would happen when the marketing is outsourced to other companies. “There are companies who say that we’re not responsible for this because it’s been done by a company that we’ve outsourced to. So how does the data protection bill address that situation? How would you go about cleaning that function,” Pahwa asked.

To another set of speakers discussing user rights under the DPDP Act, Nikhil Pahwa asked about the rights that users have against companies that spam them. “Can I ask them for sources of information? Can I file a grievance with them? Like, what are the rights that I have against all this spam that I’m getting,” Pahwa asked.

Jagannath PV added an important point about how publicly available personal data is out of the ambit of the DPDP Act, which could allow spam marketing that exists based on publicly available data to continue as usual.

Also Read

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event