United Kingdom’s Technology Secretary Peter Kyle has announced that the government is receptive to an Australian-style ban on social media for children under 16 years and will launch a feasibility study to explore its impact on children, during an interview with BBC Radio 4. Kyle responded to a question about the ban by stating “Everything is on the table with me”.

The interview followed the unveiling of priorities for the Office of Communications (Ofcom) as the government enforces the Online Safety Act (OSA) next year.

Passed in October last year, the Online Safety Act 2023 lays down rules to protect children and adults online. It also imposes various duties on social media companies and search engines, holding them accountable for user safety on their platforms. UK’s regulator for communication services, Ofcom, is responsible for developing, implementing, and enforcing the laws outlined within the Act.

In January, the criminal offences introduced within the Act relating to cyber flashing, intimate image abuse, and epilepsy trolling among others came into effect.

As per the Act, companies must ensure that child users have age-appropriate experiences and are blocked from accessing harmful content. Companies will also be required to state and institute mechanisms termed “age assurance technologies” to check the ages of users online.

The laws mandate that adult users will be able to exercise greater control over the content they view by enabling optional tools such as filtering out unverified users, thereby preventing online trolls from contacting them. Such tools should also be applied to prevent users from encountering abusive or hateful content.

All companies and online sites allowing content sharing and user interactions must promptly remove content related to illegal suicide or self-harm or that which is illegal under the Suicide Act 1961. A new criminal offence for “encouraging or assisting serious self-harm” was also introduced by the Act.

Companies must identify how algorithms could affect users’ and children’s exposure to illegal or harmful content respectively, taking steps to abate and manage any unidentified risks arising from them. Additionally, platforms must publish annual transparency reports furnishing information concerning online safety.

In case a company fails to adhere to the duties outlined in the Act, they can be penalised with fines up to £18 Million or 10% of their qualifying worldwide revenue (whichever is higher). Companies and their senior managers will also be held criminally liable following failure to comply with Ofcom’s enforcement notices regarding child safety duties or exploitation on their platform.

Yesterday, the Department of Science, Innovation, and Technology (DSIT) announced five strategic priorities regarding online safety:

The DSIT also announced the launch of a new research project to “boost the evidence base around online harms”. Within this, the first step would be to ascertain the best methods to cognize the impact of smartphones and social media on children. Referring to a previous government study with insufficient evidence to associate children’s mental health with smartphone usage, Kyle stated , “There are assumptions about the impact [social media] has on children and young people, but there is no firm, peer-reviewed evidence”.

In August, the UK government sought to increase the power to regulate tech platforms and called for a review of the OSA in response to violence fueled by online disinformation spreading throughout the country. In line with this, London’s mayor Sadiq Khan had also urged the government to check whether the OSA is “fit for purpose”, The Guardian reported .

In the United States, The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), 1998, mandates parental consent for websites to collect personal information from children under 13.

India’s Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 prohibits companies from processing data of individuals under the age of 18 without parental consent. The law also prohibited processing any data that would cause any “detrimental effect” on a child’s well-being and forbade attempts to undertake tracking and behavioural monitoring.

Likewise, in 2023, France ordered social networks to block access to children under 15 with parental approval and imposed heavy fines for violating this rule. Besides these countries like China and Brazil have also implemented restrictions on social media access to children.

Lastly, the Australian government’s proposal to ban social media usage for teenagers prohibits minors from holding an account but allows access to social media in a logged-out state. Speaking about this plan, Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese stated, “We know social media is causing social harm, and it is taking kids away from real friends and experiences”.

However, as governments seek to regulate and ban social media for children, differing views have also emerged with concerns over the same impeding the development of skills to address social media and cyberbullying, France24 reported .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event