E-commerce logistics services provider Delhivery has raised $100 million from U.S based Carlyle Asia Partners IV for a minority stake in the company, reports ET Tech , which has the story confirmed. This is Carlyle Asia Partners IV’s first investment in a logistics business in India. Existing investor Tiger Global also participated in this round. The reports says that the company currently services 600 cities, 8,500 PIN codes and has a network of 12 fulfilment centres.

In May 2015, the company had raised $85 million in a Series D round of funding led by Tiger Global Management and participation from existing investors including Multiples Alternate Asset Management, Nexus Venture Partners and Times Internet Limited.

Delhivery had previously raised $35 million in a Series C round of funding led by Multiples Alternate Asset Management, and participation from investors Times Internet and Nexus Venture Partners. Prior to this, the platform had raised close to $5 million in Series B investment from Nexus Venture Partners in September 2013, and Times Internet had bought a minority stake in the company for an undisclosed amount in June 2012.

Going beyond logistics?

It appears that the company is offering services that go beyond fulfilment and logistics. As indicated by its website, the company presently seems to also offer omni-channel services to integrate all channels – in-store, website, social media, mobile and voice. This includes channel creation, order management and customer engagement services (social media management, email marketing, SEO, advertising, among others). The company also offers commerce services that includes channel analytics (channel productivity, inventory allocation and vendor selection) and demand analytics (demand forecasting, returns management, fraud detection and recommendations engine)

Founded in May 2011, Delhivery provides logistics solutions for e-commerce companies. This includes solutions like last mile delivery, third party warehousing, reverse logistics and multiple payment collection and processing options. It also provides vendor-to-warehouse and direct vendor-to-customer shipping solutions. In September 2016, Delhivery had partnered with Alibaba to provide domestic courier and logistics services with free shipments and offer Alibaba members special solutions, prices and customer support.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event