SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. 1. The present petition has been filed under Section 482 of Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 („ Cr.P.C .‟) on behalf of the petitioner
 seeking quashing of FIR bearing No.102/2022, registered at Police
 Station Cyber Police Station Dwarka, Delhi for offences punishable
 under Section 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000 („ IT
 Act ‟) and all subsequent criminal proceedings emanating thereof. 2. Briefly stated, the facts of the case are that on 05.09.2022, a
 complaint was lodged by the complainant wherein she had alleged CRL.M.C. 2085/2024 Page 1 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:42:46 that she had been subjected to harassment for last four weeks through
 Instagram App. It was alleged that the accused had made fifth
 account on Instagram for the sole purpose of bullying and harassing
 the complainant. It was further alleged that the accused persons had
 been publishing photographs, abusive content and rumours about the
 complainant on Instagram which is a public platform. As alleged, the
 said rumours had been spread after the engagement of the
 complainant and messages had also been sent to her friends wherein
 abusive content had been shared with them. On these allegations, the
 present FIR was registered on 05.09.2022. During Investigation,
 chargesheet was filed on 13.12.2023 for offences punishable under Sections 419 / 500 / 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 („ IPC ‟) and Sections 66C and 66D of the IT Act, and the learned Trial Court was
 pleased to take cognizance of the said offences. 3. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner argues
 that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present case and
 there is no incriminating evidence against him. It is submitted that the
 allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable offence, but
 constitute only a non-cognizable offence, and that no investigation is
 permitted by a police officer without an order of a magistrate as per Section 155(2) of Cr.P.C. It is further stated that the present
 accused/petitioner has been charge-sheeted under Section 419 / 500 / 34 IPC and Sections 66C / 66D of the IT Act without any iota of
 evidence, and a bare reading of the above sections shows that the
 offence of cheating by impersonation has been invoked against the
 petitioner. However, it is argued that in the present case, among the CRL.M.C. 2085/2024 Page 2 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:42:46 Instagram IDs which had been given by the complainant, not a single
 ID was created using the name of the complainant and neither her
 credentials were hacked nor any person had committed any act of
 cheating using the identity of the complainant. It is further submitted
 that the evidence i.e., screenshots given by the complainant show
 private conversations on Instagram between the complainant and
 other persons, and the other screenshots shared by her appear to be
 fabricated by the complainant herself. It is also argued by the learned
 counsel that neither any Instagram ID was found registered on the
 mobile number or email id of the petitioner, nor the login details
 reveal that the Instagram IDs in question were logged in on the
 devices of the petitioner. It is further submitted that the statement of
 one Anurag Malyala has been recorded, who knew the complainant
 since childhood, but Mr. Anurag Malyala was in United Kingdom in
 the year 2023 and it is not possible for the I.O. to record his statement
 on 13.10.2023. It is further submitted that the entire story of the
 prosecution is concocted and contradicts from the documents and
 screenshots provided in the chargesheet. Therefore, it is prayed that
 the present FIR and all consequent proceedings be quashed. 4. Per contra, learned APP for the State opposes the present
 petition and submits that chargesheet in this case has been filed under Section 419 / 500 / 34 of IPC and Sections 66C / 66D of the IT Act and
 learned Trial Court has taken cognizance of the same. It is argued
 that there are serious allegations of impersonation and creation of
 fake social media accounts with the intent of harassing and bullying
 the complainant. It is further submitted that charges have not been CRL.M.C. 2085/2024 Page 3 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:42:46 framed yet and that the petitioner can address these arguments before
 the learned Trial Court at the stage of arguments on point of charge.
 It is, thus,prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 5. This Court has heard arguments addressed on behalf of both
 the parties and has perused the material placed on record. 6. Since the present petition has been filed seeking quashing of
 the FIR registered against the petitioner alongwith all consequent
 proceedings, it shall be pertinent to take an overview of the principles
 that govern quashing of FIRs. 7. The Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Neeharika Infrastructure
 v. State of Maharashtra 2021 SCC OnLine 315,after analysing and
 examining several judicial precedents, had culled out the following
 principles governing the law on quashing of an FIR: restraint imposed by law, more particularly the parameters
 laid down by this Court in the cases of R.P. Kapur (supra)
 and Bhajan Lal (supra), has the jurisdiction to quash the
 FIR/complaint; and xv) When a prayer for quashing the FIR is made by the
 alleged accused, the court when it exercises the power
 under Section 482 Cr.P.C., only has to consider whether or
 not the allegations in the FIR disclose the commission of a
 cognizable offence and is not required to consider on merits
 whether the allegations make out a cognizable offence or not
 and the court has to permit the investigating agency/police to
 investigate the allegations in the FIR." 8. The Hon'ble Apex Court in CBI v. Aryan Singh 2023 SCC
 OnLine SC 379 held that while exercising the powers under Section
 482 of Cr.P.C., the Courts have a very limited jurisdiction and are
 only required to consider "whether any sufficient material is
 available to proceed further against the accused for which the
 accused is required to be tried or not". 9. This Court notes that as per the story of prosecution, on
 05.09.2022, a complaint was filed by the complainant/victim,
 alleging harassment through Instagram, and allegedly, the accused
 persons had created five Instagram accounts specifically for the
 purpose of bullying and harassing the complainant. It was also
 alleged that the accused persons had shared abusive content and
 rumours about the complainant on Instagram, and these rumours
 alongwith messages containing abusive content had been sent to the
 complainant's friends, after the complainant's engagement. 10. During investigation, it was revealed that the petitioner had
 created fraudulent Instagram accounts, i.e., YRSYASHMITTAL and
 PREETI PATIL, with the intention of engaging in trolling, bullying,
 and defaming the complainant. As per the prosecution, the dispute
 had arisen from a conflict between the petitioner and the
 complainant, precipitated by comments regarding body shaming.
 Furthermore, the petitioner's fiancé had consistently praised the
 complainant for her dedication to health consciousness, which had
 further exacerbated the situation. It was also revealed that co-accused
 Ms. 'Y', who was a close friend of the petitioner, had provided her
 mobile phone i.e. a Realmi phone with sim card (number: 11. Considering the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the
 case, coupled with the fact that the FSL results of the seized mobile
 phones are still awaited, which shall be filed by way of
 supplementary chargesheet before the learned Trial Court, this Court CRL.M.C. 2085/2024 Page 7 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:42:46 is of the opinion that the present case is not a fit case for quashing the
 FIR in question at this stage. 12. However, since the charges have yet not been framed in this
 case, the petitioner shall be at liberty to raise all the contentions
 which have been raised before this Court, at the time of addressing
 arguments on point of charge before the learned Trial Court. 13. In view thereof, the present petition stands dismissed,
 alongwith pending application if any. 14. It is also clarified that nothing expressed hereinabove shall
 tantamount to an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 15. The order be uploaded on the website forthwith. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 MARCH 22, 2024/hs CRL.M.C. 2085/2024 Page 8 of 8 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.04.2024 17:42:46