BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE 1. On 05.07.2019, DD No. 18A was received and Ct.
Ashok had telephonically informed from GTB Hospital that one
lady Archana, w/o Akash Kashyap, aged 22 years, R/o A-1/154,
Harsh Vihar, Delhi was admitted to the hospital by her father in
unconscious state with the allegations of committing suicide. The
said lady was declared brought dead at the hospital and State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 1 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 2. The Executive Magistrate of Seema Puri, Delhi had
inspected the spot and recorded the statements of the parents of
deceased. Mother of deceased Usha Devi alleged that she had got
married her daughter Archana to Akash on 05.02.2017 and gave
dowry as per their capacity and also married her elder daughter
Mithlesh to the elder brother of Akash, namely Sunil Kumar on
18.02.2011 and her younger daughter Archana was harassed for
dowry and there was demand of Rs. 11 lacs in the marriage, but
same could not be paid due to expenses in the marriage of elder
daugher Mithlesh and that Archana was killed by accused Akash
and his mother Birma Devi and then hanged her. 3. On the above complaint of the complainant, the FIR
was registered vide FIR No. 276/2019, dt. 06.07.2019 in PS
Harsh Vihar u/s 498-A / 304-B / 34 IPC. After investigation,
charge-sheet was filed against the accused Akash Kashyap and
Birma Devi @ Pappy u/s 498-A / 304-B / 34 IPC and after filing of
charge-sheet, cognizance of offence was taken against the
accused persons. CHARGE 4. Charge for the offences punishable u/s
498-A/304-B/34 IPC was framed against the accused Akash
Kashyap and Birma Devi @ Pappy (abated) by the Ld.
Predecessor on 28.01.2020. Accused persons pleaded not guilty State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 2 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 5. Admission/denial of documents u/s 294 Cr.PC was
conducted on 25.01.2024. Accused admitted the following
documents: In view of the above-said admission, the requirement
of evidence of following witnesses was dispensed with : 6. Prosecution examined fourteen (14) witnesses in its
favour to prove the case. 7. PW1 Rajbir Singh deposed that he was a farmer and
the marriage of his daughter Archana was solemnized on
05.07.2017 with Akash in Harsh Vihar, Delhi in accordance with
Hindu Rites and Ceremony and he gave his daughter, her stridhan
as per his financial capacity. His elder daughter Mithlesh was
also married to elder brother of accused namely Sunil Kumar and
she was residing happily with her husband Sunil Kumar at her
matrimonial home and there was no such dispute/issue, but there
were some issues in the matrimonial home of his daughter
Archana on very trivial issues. Approximately 2.5 years of the marriage of his
daughter Archana, they received a telephonic call from his elder
daughter Mithlesh, who informed that Archana had committed
suicide by hanging and there was some dispute of Archana with
accused Akash and his mother Birma Devi on domestic work. 8. PW1 admitted during cross-examination by Ld. Addl.
PP that he had identified the dead body of his daughter Archana
in the mortuary, Ex.PW1/A and after the postmortem, her dead
body was handed over to him vide memo, Ex.PW1/B. PW1
handed over the marriage card and other documents to the IO on
20.07.2019. PW1 had correctly identified accused Akash
Kashyap in the court. PW1 was declared hostile. KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: PW2 admitted during cross-examination by Ld. Addl. PP that
both daughter Mithlesh and Archana were residing at the same
house and Mithlesh was married to Sunil, who was brother of
accused Akash Kashyap and Archana was seven months pregnant
when she died and accused Birma Devi insisted upon marriage of
deceased Archana with accused Akash. PW2 had correctly
identified accused Akash Kashyap in the court. PW2 was also
declared hostile. 10. PW3 Karan Kashyap deposed that after the death of
his father in 2013, he went to the matrimonial house of cousin
Mithlesh, D/o Usha Devi at H. No. A-1/154, Gali No. 4, Harsh
Vihar, Delhi for study and his cousin Mithlesh's mother-in-law
Birma Devi (abated) used to talk about the marriage of his other
cousin Archana (deceased) with accused Akash Kashyap. On her
pressure, his uncle Rajbir Singh got conducted the marriage of State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 5 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 11. PW4 Mithlesh deposed that in 2011, she got married
with Sunil Kumar R/o Harsh Vihar, Delhi and on the pressure of
her mother-in-law Birma Devi (abated), her father Rajbir Singh
got conducted the marriage of her sister Archana with accused
Akash Kashyap on 05.02.2017. On 05.07.2019 at about 11.30 am - 12:00 noon, PW4 was present at the ground floor of her
aforesaid house and her sister Archana was present at the first
floor of aforesaid house and she called her sister Archana from
the ground floor, but she did not reply even after 4-5 times.
Thereafter, PW4 went upstairs and found that the door of her
room was locked from inside and she raised alarm and some
public persons from the nearby houses came and broke the door
of her room and she found that her sister Archana was hanging
from the ceiling fan with the help of saree. 12. PW4 further deposed that she with the help of other
public persons took her sister Archana in her arms and thereafter,
took her to the GTB Hospital and her sister Archana was
pregnant at the time of her death and her child in womb also died
with her. After postmortem, her dead body was handed over.
PW4 handed over one colour photograph of Archana and accused State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 6 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 13. PW5 Pawan deposed that in the month of July, 2019,
he along with his family were residing on rent at A-1/153, Gali
No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi and was working as a labour in a
factory and on 05.07.2019, he was present at his house as he was
ill and in the afternoon at about 12:31 PM, he heard noise of hue
and cry coming from the house of accused Akash Kashyap i.e.
H.No. A1/154, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi and he along with
his sister Kamlesh came out from their house and reached at the
first floor of H. No. A1/154, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi and
from the grill of the door, they saw that wife of accused Akash
Kashyap was hanging from the fan. Thereafter, they along with
Mithlesh Bhabhi, W/o Raj Kumar, one other Mithlesh (sister of
deceased) and other person entered inside the room after pushing
(dhakke markar) and opened the kundi of door with the help of
one iron rod (sabal). Mithlesh Bhabhi and other Mithlesh pushed
wife of accused Akash Kashyap upwards holding her legs and his
sister took out the knot (fanda) from the neck of wife of accused
and she was taken downstairs and then taken to GTB Hospital in
the auto of his father where she was declared dead and she was
pregnant at the time of incident and he returned to his house. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 14. PW5 had correctly identified the 29 photographs of
deceased Archana, place of incident, Mark-X2 (colly) and the
above-said saree was not disputed by accused Akash Kashyap.
PW5 had correctly identified accused Akash Kashyap in the
court. PW4 was also declared hostile. 15. PW6 Banbaree Lal deposed that his elder sister
Mithlesh got married with brother of accused Sunil Kumar and
his sister Archana got married with accused on 05.02.2017 and
on 05.07.2019, he came to know that his sister Archana had
committed suicide. Thereafter, they went to matrimonial house of
his sister at H.No. A1-154, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi. After
postmortem, the cremation of his sister Archana was done by
them. PW6 had correctly identified the 29 photographs of
deceased Archana, place of incident, Mark-X2 (colly) and the
above-said saree was not disputed by accused Akash Kashyap.
PW6 had correctly identified accused Akash Kashyap in the
court. PW6 was also declared hostile. 16. PW-7 Atul Ramachiary deposed that in the year 2019,
he was posted as Executive Magistrate at Seemapuri, Delhi and
IO of the present case communicated the information about the
death of the victim to him on 05.07.2019 and on 06.07.2019, he
reached mortuary of GTB Hospital and recorded the statement of
parents of the deceased Rajveer Singh and Usha Devi,
Ex.PW1/X, he made endorsement on their statements, Ex.PW7/A
and handed over the said statements to IO for taking necessary
action. Postmortem of the body of deceased was conducted and
the relatives of the deceased identified her dead body and their State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 8 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 17. PW8 Mithlesh, W/o Sh. Raj Kumar deposed that she
was residing at H. NO. A1/153, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi
since 2012 on rent. Deceased Archana and her sister Mithlesh
w/o Sunil Kumar used to reside in the house of accused i.e.
H.No. A-1/154, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi and on
05.07.2019, in the evening, she came to know that Archana had
hanged herself in her matrimonial house and she had died. PW8
had correctly identified accused Akash Kashyap in the court.
PW8 was also declared hostile. 18. PW9 Kamlesh deposed that she was residing at H. No.
A-1/153, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi along with her family
members and she got married in November, 2019. Deceased
Archana and her sister Mithlesh, W/o Sunil Kumar used to reside
in the house of accused Akash Kashyap at Harsh Vihar, Delhi and
on 05.07.2019, in the evening, she came to know that Archana
had hanged herself in her matrimonial house and she had died.
PW9 had correctly identified accused Akash Kashyap in the
court. PW9 was also declared hostile. 19. PW10 Ashok Kumar deposed that he was residing at
H.No. F-2/389, Sunder Nagri, Delhi-93 for last 15 years and he
got married with Neha on 30.10.2017. Accused Akash Kashyap
was his classmate. In the cross-examination of Ld. APP, PW10
admitted that his marriage with Neha was love marriage and after
the same he used to reside with her in Ghaziabad. PW10 had
correctly identified accused Akash Kashyap in the court. PW10 State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 9 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 20. PW11 Neha deposed that in the year 2019, she was
residing at F-2/389, Sunder Nagri, Delhi along with her husband
and before that she was residing in Kachhi Colony, Ghaziabad
along with her husband. She was suffering from TB. Accused
Akash Kashyap, who is friend of her husband helped her to get
her treatment at GTB Hospital twice and thereafter she started
getting her treatment at Ghaziabad. PW11 was also declared
hostile. 21. PW12 ASI Devender deposed that on 05.07.2019, he
was posted as ASI at PS Harsh Vihar and on that day, he was on
emergency duty and his working hours were from 08:00 am to
08:00 pm. On that day, on receiving DD No. 18-A, Ex.PA3, he
along with Ct. Preetam went to the GTB Hospital where he
collected the MLC of deceased Archana and he called the crime
team at the hospital, which took photographs of deceased
Archana at the hospital itself and thereafter they went to the spot
i.e. A-1/154, Harsh Vihar, Delhi along with crime team and he
went inside the room i.e. 1st floor of the above said house where
he found that one pink colour saree was hanging from the ceiling
fan and crime team took the photographs of the spot i.e. above
said room and he took out the saree from the fan and put the
same in a transparent polythene bag and then wrapped the said
bag in a white colour cloth and then sealed the same with the seal
of 'DS', which was seized vide seizure memo, Ex.PW12/A. 22. PW12 further deposed that he gave information to the
concerned SDM/Executive Magistrate, Seemapuri regarding the State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 10 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 23. PW12 further deposed that on 06.07.2019 in the
morning, he along with Ct. Preetam went to the mortuary of GTB
Hospital where above said Executive Magistrate recorded the
statement of Usha Devi and Rajbeer and after recording the same
was handed over to him for necessary action and he also
conducted the proceedings u/s 176 Cr.PC (inquest proceedings).
The dead body of deceased Archana was identified by accused
Akash Kashyap and Rajbeer Singh vide identification statements,
Ex.PW12/B and Ex.PW1/A and postmortem of deceased
Archana was also conducted on the request of Atul Ramachiary
and after the same, her dead body was handed over to Rajbeer
vide handing over memo, Ex.PW1/B. PW12 prepared the rukka,
Ex.PW12/C at the PS and handed over the same to DO for
registration of FIR and after registration of FIR, further
investigation was marked to Insp. Ravi Prakash. 24. PW12 further deposed that he handed over all the
documents regarding the present case to him. Thereafter, he
along with Insp. Ravi Prakash went to the aforesaid spot where
Insp. Ravi Prakash prepared the site plan, Ex.PW12/D and also
conducted local investigation from the nearby persons, but they State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 11 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 25. PW13 Ravi Prakash deposed that on 06.07.2019, he
was posted at PS Harsh Vihar as Inspector and on that day,
further investigation of the present case was marked to him. 1 st
IO/ASI Devender Singh handed over the documents of present
case to him. PW13 along with 1st ASI Devender Singh went to
the spot i.e. H. No. A-1/154, Gali No. 4, Harsh Vihar, Delhi and
prepared the site plan, Ex.PW12/D at the instance of ASI
Devender. Accused Akash Kashyap was interrogated at PS Harsh
Vihar and arrested vide arrest memo, Ex.PW12/E, his personal
search was conducted vide memo, Ex.PW12/F and his disclosure
statement, Ex.PW12/G was recorded. Accused Akash Kashyap
took them to the place of incident and he prepared the pointing State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 12 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: PW13 seized the same vide seizure memo, Ex.PW4/A and PW13
examined parents of deceased. Rajbir Singh handed over him
marriage card, bills regarding sale of agricultural produce and
account statements of his account and he seized the same vide
seizure memo, Ex.PW1/A. 26. PW13 further deposed that on 29.07.2019, accused
Birma Devi (abated) was formally arrested vide arrest memo,
Ex.PW13/A, her personal search was conducted vide,
Ex.PW13/B and her disclosure statement was also recorded vide,
Ex.PW13/C. On 12.07.2019, he gave request regarding
verification of treatment papers of deceased Archana to CMO,
IHBAS Hospital, Delhi, Ex.PW13/D and on 16.07.2019, Dr.
Suman Kushwaha of IHBAS Hospital submitted a reply
regarding the verification of abovesaid documents and also gave
her opinion regarding suicidal tendency in her reply/said
documents, Ex.PA8 from Point A to A1. ASI Mahavir Singh
handed over the photographs taken by him to PW13 and during
investigation, on 29.08.2019, he interrogated Surender (father-in-
law of deceased) vide interrogation report, Ex.PW13/E. After
completion of investigation, he prepared the charge-sheet against
accused Akash Kashyap and Birma Devi and placed Surender in
Column 12 of the charge-sheet. PW13 had correctly identified
accused Akash Kashyap in the court. KUMAR RAJAT Date: RAJAT 2024.11.08
 16:59:07
 +0530 27. PW14 HC Pritam Singh deposed that on 05.07.2019,
he was posted as Constable at PS Harsh Vihar and on that day, he
was on emergency duty with ASI Devender Singh and on
receiving DD No. 18A, he along with ASI Devender Singh
reached at GTB Hospital where IO/ASI Devender collected the
MLC of deceased Archana and called crime team at the hospital
and the photographer took photographs of deceased Archana at
the hospital. PW14 along with IO/ASI Devender Singh and
Crime Team went to the spot at Harsh Vihar, Delhi and they went
inside the room i.e. 1st floor of the above said house where they
found that one pink colour saree was hanging from the ceiling
fan attached with the cemented beam of roof and crime team took
the photographs of the spot i.e. above said room and IO took out
the saree from the fan and put the same in a transparent
polythene bag and then wrapped the said bag in a white colour
cloth and then sealed the same with the seal of 'DS' and 1 st IO
seized the same vide seizure memo, Ex.PW12/A. 28. PW14 further deposed that 1st IO gave information to
the concerned SDM/Executive Magistrate, Seemapuri regarding
the death of Archana within 7 years and requested him to conduct
the inquest proceedings. IO gave information regarding the death
of Archana to the family members. Executive Magistrate, Sh.
Atul Ramachiary came at the spot and inspected it. The parents
of deceased namely Usha Devi and Rajbeer came late at the PS.
IO deposited the above said sealed pulanda with MHC(M) of PS
Harsh Vihar. On 06.07.2019 in the morning, he along with 1st IO
went to the mortuary of GTB Hospital where the above said State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 14 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: STATEMENT OF ACCUSED u/s 313 Cr.P.C. 29. Statement of accused Akash Kashyap was recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC on 26.09.2024 and he denied the incriminating
evidence put to him. He stated that none of the public witness
deposed against him as per the story of the prosecution and rest
of the witnesses i.e. Doctors, are the formal witnesses and other
police witnesses deposed against him in a false manner as he was
falsely implicated in the present case by the police officials on
pressure of higher officials of police, on the basis of work out
theory of the cases and his married life with the deceased was State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 15 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 30. It is argued by Ld. counsel for accused Akash
Kashyap that he had been falsely implicated by the police at the
instance of complainant and he had never caused any injury to
the victim/deceased nor he ever harassed her in any manner nor
he committed any cruelty with her and even did not demand any
dowry at any point of time. It is submitted that none of the
prosecution witnesses has supported the case of prosecution,
which shows the innocence of accused and they have not levelled
any iota of allegation against the accused Akash Kashyap and co-
accused Birma Devi, who has expired and case against her has
already been abated. Prior to the suicide by deceased, the
relations between the accused and the deceased were cordial and
they were living happily and there is no external antemortem
injury mentioned in the PMR, which points towards the
innocence of accused and prosecution has not been able to prove
its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt as even
nothing has come in the cross-examination of all the hostile
public witnesses in favour of the prosecution as all of them have
denied the suggestions of Ld. APP and disowned their statements
recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. by the police and thus no presumption u/s 113(B) Indian Evidence Act can be raised against the accused
as prosecution has not laid the foundational facts and victim had
committed suicide as she was under depression and was being State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 16 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 31. Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued that prosecution
has proved its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt
as the deceased committed the suicide within 7 years of marriage
and PW7, Executive Magistrate had recorded the statements of
the parents and he proved the same as PW1/X in which they had
levelled allegations of cruelty and harassment and demand of
dowry against the accused persons and PMR has proved that
death was caused due to hanging and the deceased took the
extreme step due to the cruelty and harassment by the accused
persons after few years of marriage between the deceased and
accused Akash Kashyap and presumption u/s 113(B) of the
Indian Evidence Act has to be raised against the accused, which
he failed to rebut. All the police witnesses have supported the
case of prosecution and the marriage between the deceased and
the accused is not disputed and the statements of witnesses and
the PMR shows that she died because of hanging and it was not a
natural death and this report is admitted by the accused along
with the MLC of the deceased and photographs of place of
incident. PW13 had proved the pointing out memo prepared at
the instance of accused and he admitted his guilt in his disclosure
statement. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 32. I have heard the rival contentions and perused the
records. 33. The prosecution has examined 14 witnesses to prove
its case and accused Birma Devi @ Pappy had expired and case
against her has already been abated on 17.08.2021. 34. The charge against accused is u/s 498-A / 304-B / 34 IPC. 498-A IPC : Husband or relative of husband of a
woman subjecting her to cruelty. Whoever, being the husband or the
relative of the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years,
and shall also be liable to fine. 304-B IPC . Dowry Death
 (1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or
bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances
within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before her
death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any
relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry,
such death shall be called "dowry death", and such husband or relative
shall be deemed to have caused her death. (2) Whoever commits dowry death shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years, but
which may extend to imprisonment for life.] 35. As per the case of prosecution, the marriage
between deceased Archana and accused Akash Kashyap was
solemnized on 05.02.2017 according to Hindu Customs and
Rites and on 05.07.2019, she committed suicide by hanging in
her house and when she was brought to GTB Hospital, she was
declared brought dead as mentioned in her MLC, Ex.PA7. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 36. PW1 Rajbeer, who was father of the deceased,
deposed that Archana was married to Akash on 05.07.2017 and
there were some issues in the matrimonial house of deceased
Archana and after 2.5 years of her marriage they received
telephone call from his elder daughter Mithlesh, who was also
married in the same house that Archana had committed suicide
by hanging and there was some dispute between her and her
mother-in-law Birma Devi and Akash. 37. PW1 was declared hostile as he has not disclosed as
to what was the dispute between the deceased and the accused
person. During his cross-examination by Ld. APP, the attention
of PW1 was drawn to his previous statements, Ex.PW1/X and
his statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C., Ex.PW1/X1, Ex.PW1/X2 and
Ex.PW1/X3 and even after confronted with the same, PW1
stated that he did not tell SDM that his younger daughter
Archana was harassed by accused persons for demand of State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 19 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 38. PW1 has identified the dead body of deceased
Archana vide Ex.PW1/A and it was handed over to him vide
memo, Ex.PW1/B, but he denied that her daughter Archana
was harassed and tortured mentally and physically by accused
Akash and his mother for demand of cash or car or that they
were responsible for the death of Archana. PW1 also denied
that Birma Devi pressurized to get Archana married to Akash
or that prior to one month of marriage and first week of
January, 2017, he handed over Rs. 7.5 lacs cash to Birma Devi
in the presence of his elder daughter Mithlesh, Akash and his
father Surender to purchase dowry articles or that said money
was arranged from one broker Hemraj and other persons or
that Birma Devi used to taunt that the marriage should have
been performed by spending at least 11-12 lacs or that Archana
used to complain about her mother-in-law Birma Devi or that
PW1 had purchased some articles with accused Akash and
handed over to him along with some money or he gave
expensive cloths and gold/silver jewellery to deceased
Archana. PW1 disowned his statements u/s 161 Cr.P.C.,
Ex.PW1/X2. PW1 also denied that Birma Devi used to make
pressure to spend hefty amount in the marriage or that Akash
and Birma Devi used to harass Archana. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 39. PW1 also denied that he gave 5 tola gold consisting
of 1 pair jhumka, 1 pair bali and other articles along with 200
gm silver articles or that Archana used to complaint about
forceful labour by accused Birma Devi and accused persons
did not like her or her visit to her parental house and he made
her understand and not to worry and also denied that due to
cruelty and harassment, his daughter's condition got worse and
when she was pregnant, accused persons demanded car or that
his elder daughter Mithlesh did not object to save her marriage
and few days before the death of Archana, she came to their
house and disclosed to her mother that there was demand of
car by her mother-in-law at the 'Naamkaran Sanskar' of her
forthcoming child or money to that Akash could open a mobile
repair shop for himself. PW1 also denied that after 15-20 days
his daughter returned to her matrimonial home along with
Sunil and he requested him not to torture his daughter or that
he had disclosed the Sunil about the harassment and torture
given by accused Akash and Birma Devi or that Sunil assured
that nothing will happen again and then PW1 let his daughter
Archana went to her matrimonial home, but the accused
persons kept on harassing her and she became ill. PW1 also
denied that Birma Devi tortured her even when she was 7
months pregnant and when Mithlesh intervened she used to
taunt her or that PW1 visited the matrimonial house of
Archana 10 days before her death and there was quarrel
between him and her in-laws on the issue of demand of dowry
and he wanted to take his daughter back home or that after few State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 21 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 40. PW1 also denied that on 05.07.2019 his wife Usha
received information that her daughter hanged herself and they
reached her matrimonial home and he raised doubt about her
death in the statement to SDM or that Karan told him that she
was fit when he left the matrimonial home of deceased
Archana on the date of incident and there was a fight between
Archana and Akash one day before the incident and accused
Akash and Birma Devi are responsible for her death. 41. PW1 has not at all supported the case of
prosecution in any manner even when he was confronted with
his previous statements, rather he volunteered that one
government official took the details of his family and daughter
and also took his signature and thumb impression on blank
paper and told that he would help him get justice and he also
disowned his statement made to the Executive Magistrate.
PW1 was not cross-examined by the accused. 42. PW2 Usha Devi had also deposed that her both
daughters Archana and Mithlesh were married to Akash and
Sunil and on 05.07.2019, she received information that
Archana had hanged herself and they reached at her
matrimonial home at Harsh Vihar. 43. In the cross-examination of Ld. APP, PW2 denied
that accused Akash Kashyap, Birma Devi (mother-in-law) and
Surender (father-in-law) had harassed Archana for demand of
dowry and also demanded Rs. 11,00,000/- as dowry or that
they had already incurred Rs. 7,50,000/- in the marriage of State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 22 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 44. PW2 also denied that after six months of marriage,
accused Akash Kashyap and Birma Devi used to taunt her by
saying that 'uske bete ki shadi 11-12 lakh ki honi thi, Mithlesh
ne uske baap se lutwa diya' or that she and her husband gave
five tola gold consisting of one pair of jhumki, one pair of
baali, one set kanthi, two rings, mangalsutra and also gave 200
grams silver articles in the marriage of Archana. PW2 also
denied that Archana used to complaint about forceful labour by
accused Birma Devi and accused persons did not like her or
her visit to her parental house and he made her understand and
not to worry and also denied that due to cruelty and
harassment, her daughter's condition got worse and when she
was pregnant, accused persons demanded car or that his elder
daughter Mithlesh did not object to save her marriage and few
days before the death of Archana, she came to their house and
disclosed to PW2 that there was demand of car by her mother-
in-law at the 'Naamkaran Sanskar' of her forthcoming child or
money. PW2 also denied that after 15-20 days her daughter
returned to her matrimonial home along with Sunil and she
requested him not to torture her daughter and her husband
would arrange the programme as per capacity or that she had
disclosed the Sunil about the harassment and torture given by
accused Akash and Birma Devi to her daughter or that Sunil State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 23 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 45. PW2 also denied that Karan told her that her
daughter was fit and fine when he left the matrimonial home of
deceased Archana on the date of incident and there was a fight
between Archana and Akash one day before the incident or
that accused Akash and Birma Devi are responsible for her
death as she was harassed mentally and physically for demand
of dowry. 46. PW2 has not at all supported the case of
prosecution in any manner even when she was confronted with
her previous statements, Mark X and Ex.PW1/X. PW2 also
disowned her statement made to the Executive Magistrate and
denied that she had told him that accused Akash and Birma
Devi had murdered Archana and hanger her or that she State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 24 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 47. PW3 Karan Kashyap, who is the cousin of
deceased deposed that he had gone to the matrimonial house of
Mithlesh, where accused Birma Devi used to talk about
marriage of Archana with Akash Kashyap and pressurized
PW1 for said marriage and on 05.02.2017 their marriage was
solemnized and he came to know that on 05.07.2019, Archana
had committed suicidal by hanging and she was pregnant at
that time. PW3 was declared hostile. 48. In cross-examination by Ld. APP, PW3 denied that
after marriage accused Akash used to fight with Archana and
came home late at night or that both accused persons used to
taunt Archana for deficient dowry and motorcycle or that his
cousin Banwari Lal was also taunted by accused persons on
account of deficient dowry. PW3 also denied that accused
persons used to find fault in the food prepared by the deceased
and accused Akash did not like her village accent or that Birma
Devi used to taunt her for not giving tea or giving food late at
night to accused Akash or that Archana was suffering from
some disease, but she was forced to work by accused persons
or that 10 days before her death, when PW1 Rajbeer visited
her matrimonial house, accused Birma Devi demanded
jewellery/car/articles for the coming 'Chuchak' and Akash
fought with him for car or cash. PW3 also denied that PW1
Rajbeer tried to take Archana to his home, but she refused or
that Akash used to talk about giving divorce to Archana or that
on 05.07.2019, there was quarrel between Akash and Archana State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 25 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 49. PW4 Mithlesh is also a witness of marriage
between Archana and Akash on the pressure of Birma Devi on
05.02.2017 and on 05.07.2019 at about 11.30-12 noon, she
called Archana from the ground floor, but she did not reply
then she went to first floor and found the door locked from
inside and some public persons came and had broken the
door and found Archana hanging from ceiling fan with saree
and she was taken down and taken to GTB Hospital. She died
and at that time she was preganant. IO seized the marriage
card and photographs and PW4 correctly identified
photographs of Archana, place of incident and Saree. 50. PW4 was declared hostile. In the cross-examination
of Ld. APP, PW4 denied that her father gave amount or
jewellery/cloths/articles in the dowry to Akash and his mother
or that Birma Devi used to taunt Archana that PW4 had stated
that 'Mithlesh ne lutwa diya, Akash ki shadi 11-12 lakh ki honi
thi'. PW4 denied that her father was big farmer and Akash did
not like Archana or her accent or dressing sense or that Birma
Devi used to taunt and fight with Archana for not getting up
early and not providing proper food to Akash or that Akash
used to beat Archana, which led to head and body ache and
she was taken for medical treatment. PW4 also denied that
even after Archana's pregnancy she was taunted by accused
persons and there was demand of car and 2.5 months before State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 26 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: her death, she was forced to leave her matrimonial house by
accused persons or that 10 days before her death, when her
father visited her matrimonial house, both the accused
demanded the dowry and fought with him or that on
05.07.2019, there was quarrel between Akash and Archana or
that both accused was responsible for death of Archana. PW4
was confronted with her statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., Mark X3,
but she remained firm on her denial. 51. PW5 deposed that on 05.07.2019 at about 12.30
PM after hearing hue and cry, he went to the house of accused
Akash Kashyap and saw that his wife was hanging from fan
and along with the Mithlesh and other persons entered the
room after opening the latch and she was taken down and
taken to GTB Hospital, where she was declared dead. PW5
correctly identified the photographs of deceased and place of
incident, Mark X2. PW5 was also declared hostile and he
disowned his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., Mark X4 even after he
was confronted with the same and denied that he came to
know that accused Akash Kashyap did not like his wife
Archana and 10 days before the incident, there was fight
between Akash Kashyap and father of Archana. 52. PW6 Banbaree Lal is the brother of deceased and
he has also confirmed the marriage of deceased and accused
Akash on 05.02.2017 and on 05.07.2019, he came to know that
she had committed suicide. He identified her photograph,
Mark X2. PW6 is not an eye witness and he was declared
hostile. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 53. In the cross-examination of Ld. APP, PW6 denied
that PW1 gave 5 tola gold consisting of 1 pair jhumka, 1 pair
bali and other articles along with 250 gm silver articles and Rs.
7.5 lacs cash to accused persons on their demand or that
accused Akash Kashyap did not like his sister Archana and
also used to fight and taunt her for deficient dowry articles or
that accused Birma Devi used to abuse his sister Archana due
to which his sister started keeping herself inside the room or
that accused Akash Kashyap used to demand motorcycle. PW6
also denied that accused Akash and his family members used
to demand car and cash even after Archana was pregnant and it
was disclosed by Archana when he visited her house 2.5
months prior to the incident or that Archana had requested him
to make accused Akash Kashyap understand as he had told to
divorce Archana or that 10 days before her death, accused
persons demanded car when her father visited her
matrimonial house and accused Akash Kashyap started
quarreling with him or that in order to save her marriage, she
did not go with her father or that both accused persons are
responsible for the death of Archana. PW6 was confronted
with his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., Mark X5, but he remained
firm on his denial. 54. PW8 Mithlesh deposed that deceased Archana and
Mithlesh used to reside in the same with accused Akash and
Sunil at Harsh Vihar, Delhi and on 05.07.2019, she came to
know that Archana had hanged herself at matrimonial house
and died. PW8 was the neighbour and she was also declared State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 28 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 55. PW9 Kamlesh is the neighbor of deceased and
accused and deposed that both were residing near her house
and on 05.07.2019, she came to know that Archana had hanged
herself in her matrimonial home and died. PW9 was also
declared hostile and the in the cross-examination by Ld. APP,
PW9 denied that on 05.07.2019 at about 12.30 PM, she was
making food in her house and on hearing hue and cry of
Mithlesh, sister of Archana, she reached at first floor of their
house and saw Archana hanging from ceiling fan with a saree
or that her brother Pawan and others forcibly opened the door
with the help of iron rod, then they entered and take down
Archana and sent her to GTB Hospital where she was declared
brought dead. PW9 also denied that accused Birma Devi used State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 29 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR
 KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 56. PW10 was the classmate of accused Akash
Kashyap and he had not deposed anything else and he was
declared hostile and in the cross-examination of Ld. APP, he
denied that accused Akash Kashyap helped him in the
treatment of his wife Neha at GTB Hospital in June, 2019 due
to which mother and wife of accused Akash were annoyed
with PW10 or that Akash told that he did not like his wife as
she could not speak Hindi or that his father-in-law did not
help him in opening his mobile shop or that on 05.07.2019 at
about 10 AM, Akash called him on mobile, but he could not
talk and later his mobile was not reachable or that PW10 came
to know that there was heated argument between Archana and
accused Akash after the said call was made to PW10, which
was picked up by his wife Neha. PW10 was confronted with
his statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., Mark Z3, but he remained firm
on his denial. 57. PW11 Neha deposed that she was TB patient and
accused Akash Kashyap helped her in getting treatment from
GTB Hospital and she had not deposed anything else and she
was declared hostile and in the cross-examination of Ld. APP,
she denied that on 05.07.2019, Akash had called at her State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 30 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 58. In the present case, the prosecution has not proved
that there was a demand of dowry and that too soon before the
death or that deceased was subjected to harassment or cruelty by
the accused persons Akash Kashyap and Birma Devi (case
against her has already been abated), as all the prosecution
witnesses including the family members i.e. PW1 Sh. Rajbir
Singh (father), PW2 Usha Devi (mother), PW3 Karan Kashyap
(cousin), PW4 Mithlesh (sister), PW6 Banbaree Lal (brother)
have turned hostile and have made no such allegations against
either of the accused persons and even in the cross-examination
by Ld. APP, they did not support the case of prosecution even
after being confronted with their previous statements and PW1
and PW2 have also disowned their statement before SDM,
Ex.PW1/X. PW7 SDM has deposed that he recorded the said
statement, Ex.PW1/X and endorsed the same vide endorsement,
Ex.PW7/A, but since the said witnesses have not supported the
contents, the said statement/complaint cannot be proved only on
the evidence of PW7, who was an Executive Magistrate. 59. Further, PW5 Pawan, PW8 Mithlesh and PW9
Kamlesh, who were the neighbors of the deceased and accused, State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 31 of 39 Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR
 Date: 60. Even the friend of accused Akash Kashyap and his
wife i.e. PW10 Ashok Kumar and PW11 Neha have also turned
hostile and have not supported the case of prosecution in the
cross-examination of Ld. APP even after they were confronted
with their previous statements and have made no allegations
against the accused persons and none of them is an eye witness
and they also did not prove any circumstance prior or post the
death of deceased Archana or if her relation with accused Akash
Kashyap were strained or any dowry was demanded by accused
persons or if deceased was harassed by them or cruelty being
caused to her in any manner by the accused persons. 61. Section 113B Indian Evidence Act: Presumption as to
dowry death- When the question is whether a person has committed the
dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such
woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for, or in
connection with, any demand for dowry, the court shall presume that such
person had caused the dowry death. Presumption u/s 113-B, when to be drawn.- Section
113B of the Evidence Act lays down that if soon before her death a State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 32 of 39 Digitally signed by KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: Presumption and its rebuttal.- Initial burden of proof
lies on the prosecution. Burden would not shift on the accused
merely on the fact that unnatural death had occurred within seven
years of marriage without even proving the demand of dowry
prior to the incident . Reference may be made to State v. Teg
Bahadur (2004) 13 SCC 300; see also Yashoda vs. State (2004) 3
SCC 98; Nallam vs. Public Prosecutor (2004) 10 SCC 769: AIR
2004 SC 1708; State v. Raj Gopal (2004) 4 SCC 470; AIR 2004
SC 1933; 2004 Cr LJ 1791; Baljeet v. State (2004) 3 SCC 122: 62. In Mustafa Shahadal Shaikh vs. State of Maharashtra (2012) 11 SCC 397 AIR 2023 SC 851, Hon'ble Supreme Court
held that in order to convict an accused for the offence punishable u/s
304B IPC, the following essentials must be satisfied: When the above ingredients are established by reliable and
acceptable evidence, such death shall be called dowry death and such
husband or his relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death. If the
abovementioned ingredients are attracted in view of the special provision,
the court shall presume and it shall record such fact as proved unless and
until it is disproved by the accused. However, it is open to the accused to
adduce such evidence for disproving such compulsory presumption as the
burden is unmistakably on him to do so and he can discharge such burden
by getting an answer through cross-examination of the prosecution
witnesses or by adducing evidence on the defence side. Reference may
be made to Maya Devi v. State of Haryana 2016 Cr LJ 629: Dowry meaning- 'dowry' means any property or valuable
security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly- (a) by one party to marriage to the another party to the
 marriage; or (b) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other
 person to either party to the marriage or to any other person. Digitally
 signed by
 KUMAR KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: 63. From the evidence of all the public witnesses
including family members of deceased, no evidence is brought
on record regarding demand of dowry by accused either soon
before the death of deceased Archana or before nor any evidence
of cruelty or harassment has come on record against the accused
persons. Thus, the prosecution has not laid the foundational
facts to raise presumption u/s 113B Indian Evidence Act or to
prove the offence u/s 304B / 498A IPC. 64. PW12 ASI Devender proved the DD No. 18A,
Ex.PA3, but that is only regarding the suicide of deceased and
does not prove the offence against the accused. PW12 proved the
seizure memo of articles i.e. saree from the spot and that dead
body of deceased Archana was identified by accused Akash
Kashyap vide statement, Ex.PW12/B and site plan was prepared
by Inspector Ravi Prakash, Ex.PW12/D and accused Akash
Kashyap was arrested vide arrest memo, Ex.PW12/E, his
disclosure statement, Ex.PW12/G was recorded and pointing out
memo, Ex.PW12/H was prepared at the instance of accused
Akash Kashyap, but these documents do not prove the
involvement of the accused in the crime and the disclosure
statement is not admissible in view of the embargo u/s 25 and 26 of the Indian Evidence Act. PW12 in his cross-examination
admitted that there was no visible injury on the person of
deceased Archana. PW14 HC Pritam Singh has accompanied
PW12 during investigation and deposed the same facts as PW12. KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 65. PW13 Ravi Prakash has also deposed on the similar
lines as that of PW12 and that he recorded statements of the
prosecution witnesses, but they all have turned hostile and arrest
and disclosure of Birma Devi is inconsequential as case against
her has been abated and there are no allegations in the testimony
of public witnesses. PW13 collected the treatment papers of
deceased Archana from CMO, IHBAS Hospital vide request
made on 12.07.2019, Ex.PW13/D and on 16.07.2019, Dr. Suman
Kushwaha of IHBAS Hospital replied and gave opinion
regarding suicidal tendency in documents, Ex.PA8, which were
admitted by the accused and Surender Singh (father-in-law) of
deceased was interrogated and for want of deficient evidence, he
was put in column no. 12 and was not summoned by the Court as
accused. 66. The said documents of IHBAS shows that victim was
already taking treatment and was not in the best of her mental
health and as per opinion of doctor, she had suicidal tendencies
and it may be possible that she had committed suicide due to her
mental condition as no other reason has come forth in the
testimony of the prosecution witnesses. The CDRs, Ex.PA9 were
admitted by the accused, but in the absence of any allegation, it
does not prove the offence and as per the PMR, Ex.PA6 admitted
by the accused, the cause of death is Asphyxia as a result of ante
mortem hanging, which shows that deceased committed suicide
and Ex.PA6 as well as the photographs of the deceased,
photograph of incident, Ex.PA4 and SOC Report, Ex.PA5 do not
prove the offence against the accused. KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 67. The accused has he denied the incriminating evidence
put to him. He stated that none of the public witness deposed
against him as per the story of the prosecution and rest of the
witnesses i.e. Doctors, are the formal witnesses and other police
witnesses deposed against him in a false manner as he was
falsely implicated in the present case by the police officials on
pressure of higher officials of police, on the basis of work out
theory of the cases and his married life with the deceased was
running well and happy. Since the prosecution has not laid the foundational
facts, so there is no presumption against the accused and his
defence is immaterial. 68. In Kailash Gour and Ors. Vs. State of Assam reported
in MANU/SC/1505/2011, Apex Court has observed that an
accused is presumed to be innocent till he is proved guilty
beyond a reasonable doubt is a principle that cannot be sacrificed
on the altar or inefficiency, inadequacy or inept handling of the
investigation by the police. The benefit arising from any such
faulty investigation ought to go to the accused and not to the
prosecution. 69. In Subramanya Vs. State of Karnataka , dt.
13.10.2022, in Crl. Appeal No. 242/2022, Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India has held that it is settled principle of law that when
two views are possible from the prosecution evidence, the one
which is favourable to the accused shall have to be taken and the
benefit of doubt shall have to be given to the accused. KUMAR RAJAT
 Date: Reference may also be made to the Judgment titled as 'Raj
Kumar Singh @ Raju @ Batya Vs. State of Rajasthan ', reported
as (2013) 5 SCC 722, wherein it was held that the large distance
between 'may be' true and 'must be' true, must be covered by way
of clear, cogent and unimpeachable evidence produced by the
prosecution, before an accused is condemned as a convict, and
the basic and golden rule must be applied and the Court must
ensure that miscarriage of justice is avoided and if the facts and
circumstances of a case so demand, then the benefit of doubt
must be given to the accused persons. 71. The evidence led by prosecution is not reliable, cogent
and has lot of infirmities as there are lot of material variations,
omissions, inconsistencies and contradictions in the testimonies
of all the public witnesses led by the prosecution and thus,
prosecution could not prove all the ingredients of Section
304B / 498A IPC against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. KUMAR RAJAT
 RAJAT Date: 72. In the totality of the circumstances brought on record
by way of evidence, it is observed that the prosecution has failed
to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused
Akash Kashyap qua offence punishable u/s 304B / 498A / 34 IPC,
thus, a benefit of doubt is given to the accused Akash Kashyap on
the basis of above-noted principles and facts established on
record. 73. Consequently, the accused Akash Kashyap is
acquitted of the offence u/s 304B / 498A / 34 IPC. Case against co-accused Birma Devi @ Pappy is
already abated on 17.08.2021. File be consigned to Record Room after necessary
 Digitally

compliance. ON THIS 8th DAY OF NOVEMBER 2024. +0530

 (KUMAR RAJAT)
 ASJ-07, Shahdara, KKD
 Delhi/08.11.2024 State Vs. Akash Kashyap FIR No. 276/2019 PS Harsh Vihar Page 39 of 39