I have received the below content on my email address on 21st august 2017 and i would like to inform you if this real or fake??? England golf trust Programs & events department England golf trust uk ltd, The national golf centre, Woodhall spa, Lincolnshire, Ln10 6pu, London, united kingdom. Official website: visit our official website here for more details Delivery notification: re-arrival of your consignment/ parcel by transglo express courier company. Amount won: rs.1, 64, 28, 527.33 inr (£200, 000.00 gbp) great britain pound sterling. Congratulations..! Dear lancy d. Souza, You are welcome to england golf trust; uk ltd.®. The england golf trust (Egt) wishes to congratulate you over the sms you have received in which you were informed that your mobile number had won you the sum of two hundred thousand great british pounds sterling (£200, 000.00 gbp) which may amount to about one crore sixty four lakh twenty eight thousand (Rs.1, 64, 28, 527.33 inr) in india rupee equivalent and one (1) iphone 7plus smart phone in 2017 england golf charity bonanza organized by the above trust {the england golf trust (Egt)} held here in london, united kingdom. We have confirmed and received your details prior to the processing of your award prize claim. We are glad to inform you that you have been verified and officially approved as one of the lucky winners/recipient to receive this year's 2017 charity award bonanza. We felicitate with you and your family especially for being a winner/citizen from asia continent (India). - how you were selected: You may be surprised that you did not partake in any raffle draw, hence, how did you win? England golf trust (Egt) did not sell tickets for this purpose, in a bid for the ‘ordinary’ common man to benefit from this scheme, all participant were selected randomly from an online draw which were conducted through a random selection of mobile numbers from an exclusive list of active mobile numbers of individuals and corporate bodies picked by an advanced automated random computer search engine (A. A. R. C. S. E) from all mobile network operators' data base worldwide. We only selected one hundred and twenty (120) candidates tri-annually for this event from each region of the world (America, asia, africa, australia and europe) through this on-line electronic balloting system. This was how you emerged one of the lucky winner of this year's 2017 charity award bonanza promotional gift slash raffle draw as one of the recipient from asia continent and your mobile number was attached to the following details below: Ref no: eng-gt037/c082g/lty Batch no: eng/uk/017/21/eng023/k Amount won: £200, 000.00 gbp Gift items: (1) iphone 7plus smart phone; & (1) award plaque. - about england golf trust (Egt): The england golf trust (Egt) is an independent non-profit organization that has been financially assisting people with its intention to change people's life since 2012, and dedicated to promoting the game of golf and its ideals through charity donations, education and community service. Many people have benefited from it over the years. The cornerstone supporting egt’s mission is the dedicated, caring team of volunteer egt ambassadors who are mobilized at host golf courses. Ambassadors contribute their time, passion and energy to helping educate golfers about the game; raising funds for worthy local and national charitable causes with a bid to "eradicate poverty", improve the lives of vulnerable populations, enable farmers to use improved technologies and climate change-resilient farming via specialized farming practice that will increase productivity and raise income for farmers worldwide; and supporting programs that provide people of all ages and backgrounds with the opportunity to learn, play and enjoy the game of golf. The england golf trust (Egt) is a registered 501 (C) (3) tax-exempt organization and a 509 (A) (2) public charity in which tax-deductible donation enable us to continue our dedication towards supporting worthy charitable causes that help those in need and promote the ideals of the game of golf. Golf is big business. It makes a contribution of £3.4 billion a year to the english economy. It is the fifth largest participation sport in the country. Egtf has recorded an annual average of three million (£3, 000, 000.00 gbp) pounds in donations to various charitable organizations/individuals over the world yearly. These award/funds are not just for elite players but very much for ‘ordinary’ common man – those who in the future will make up the heart and soul of a golf club. By providing this support, we will create ‘champions’ not only on the golf course but in society; to foster a life-long sporting habit and to allow young people to develop life skills closely associated with the game including confidence, self-esteem and integrity. We also step in to assist national disaster/crisis relief efforts. Our efforts have included fundraising for the victims of hurricane katrina; the columbine high school tragedy; fires in lake tahoe, ca; the indonesia tsunami; the terrorist attacks of september 11; the earthquake victims of haiti; relief efforts for hurricane sandy; and japan’s earthquake and tsunami victims. To ensure the future well-being of golf we need to attract young people to the game and to give encouragement and support to those who do take it up. - approval/dispatch of your award: As the claims officer, i (Barr.) shawn clarence esq. (Asia zone co-coordinator) england golf trust (Egt); uk ltd.® lucky gift splash promo personally congratulate you once again and this email is to officially certify that you have been verified and approved for the delivery of your won prize by a demand draft (Cashier's cheque) of two hundred thousand great british pounds (£200, 000.00 gbp) which is one crore sixty four lakhs twenty eight thousand {rs.1, 64, 28, 527.33} in indian currency equivalent, one iphone 7plus mobile phone and one award plaque as approved by the claims processing department, of england golf trust uk ltd.® promotion board. Your winning cheque/demand draft has been issued by the bbva compass & investment bank via company's payment account, united kingdom. Having considered all possible measures to convey your winning prize to you, we resolve to use a special delivery man under the diplomatic umbrella here. We have made all necessary arrangement to convey your winning prize direct to your doorstep. Your name, phone number and address has been received and sent to our affiliate courier company in charge of the delivery. It is our usual practice to carry out a routine verification about the excise and customs policy of any country before embarking on any international delivery so as to avoid complications. Be informed that the excise and customs in your country india, has made us to understand that upon the arrival of our delivery diplomatic officer at the airport of entry, your parcel needs to be officially cleared and registered at the cargo terminal at india gandhi international airport, new delhi. This is because the winning amount/foreign currency which we are bringing to you is a very huge sum as such requires an excise and customs legal clearance/ endorsement approval, after which your foreign demand draft shall be registered and endorsed by the financial service of the ministry of finance, reserve bank of india. Below is his arrival details and your winning parcel identification number: * parcel registration number. (Eng/4578/746y/ind). Your winning parcel contains the following items: 1.) your winning cheque amount of two hundred thousand great british pounds (£200, 000.00 gbp) which is one crore sixty four lakhs twenty eight thousand {rs.1, 64, 28, 527.33}; 2.) letter of affidavit of claims eligibility. 3.) confirmation letter from bbva compass investment solutions bank uk, london. 4.) one iphone7 plus smart phone. 5.) one award plaque. - courier company: transglo express courier services. - delivery agent's name: mr. Robert jason kim - courier company website: clear here to view the courier website - email: [protected]@gmail.com Scheduled departure date/time: tuesday 22nd august, 2017. 4:50:00pm [uk standard time] Scheduled arrival date/time: wednesday 23rd august, 2017. 10:00:00am [india standard time] Flight number: british airway ba 257 Route london (Lhr) to delhi (Del) Departure terminal: london - london heathrow airport - zone a, terminal 3 Arrival terminal: delhi - indira gandhi international airport - international arrival; terminal 3 - the reason for arriving new delhi airport: Our delivery agent will arrive at new delhi international airport because the government and the higher authority of your country has said that new delhi is the capital city of india and the cheque has to be registered and endorsed by this governing body (Ministry of finance government of india) only due to the current demonetization policy in india regarding a foreign cheque. India has been access a terrorist country and award prize has to be registered so that you will not be having problem or quarries with anti-terrorist agency after the prize has been transferred to your account. All these protocol must take place in the capital city which is new delhi. So, this is the reason he is to arrive new delhi before proceeding to your home address for delivery. As soon as the diplomat arrives your country, he will give you a call on your mobile and instruct you on what to do. You shall therefore pay the sum of rs.25, 900.00 inr for registration of your demand draft by the ministry of finance, reserve bank of india. After the registration of your demand draft, your approved funds shall be transferred to your designated bank account after which your delivery agent shall proceed to your state to deliver your iphone 7 plus smart phone and all other legal documents to you. Without the registration of your demand draft by the reserve bank of india, the transfer of your cheque to your bank account cannot be approved. This is in accordance with the india home financial ministry endorsement as regards to international monetary funds regulatory policy (Imf) adopted by the india home finance ministry. You are to re-confirm your details and your readiness to pay for the registration fee with the agent on his email [protected]@gmail.com below before the accredited courier delivery officer will commence delivery to your country. Your are also required to forward your bank details and id proof to the delivery agent on his email so that he can forward your account details to the bank as soon as the agent arrives the bank: - delivery agent's email: [protected]@gmail.com Full name: Current address: Bank name: Account no: Bank ifsc code: Branch name: You are to send the details above along with a copy of your id proof to the above mails for the purpose of identification and you also have to make arrangement for the requested amount that will be paid in your country to avoid any further delay with ministry of finance when he arrives in india. Your winning certificate is being attached to your mail and the delivery officer identity for your confirmation purpose. Warning!!! Note: (1). Due to the high level of scams and fraud cases on the internet, the england golf trust uk ltd.® chose not to publish details of any winner of the 2017 awards on our website until this prize is successfully delivered to the beneficiaries to avoid fraud stars taking advantage of our winners. You may also receive similar e-mails from people portraying to be other organizations or yahoo inc. This is solely to collect your personal information from you and lay claim over your winning. In the event that you receive any e-mail similar to the notification letter that was sent to you, kindly delete it from your mail box and give no further correspondence to such person or body. (2). To avoid disqualification that may arise from double claim from friends or family, do not tell people about your prize award until your winnings sum has been successfully handed over to you. England golf trust uk ltd.® shall not be held responsible for any loss of winning sum arising from the above mentioned. Do not hesitate to contact this office via telephone or email if the need arises. For security reasons, you are advised to keep your consignment code: xeng-t/5053/indxx confidential till your parcel is delivered to you. This is part of our precautionary measure to avoid double claiming and unwarranted abuse of your parcel. Please be warned!!! Once again please accept our hearty congratulation. Here is a screenshot of your iphone 7plus smart phone gift Inline image 1 Best regards, http://thecrowncollege.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Web-Clarence-Sexton-SIG.pn... ⇄ Barr. Shawn clarence esq. (Asia zonal coordinator) England golf trust (Egt) uk ltd.® Direct line: +[protected] Mon-sat 8:00am-6:00pm (London time) The claims director/event manager, Payment and release order dept, Prof chris brain, Lottery coordinator * The management board of directors (England golf trust® splash promotion™ awards 2017) Cc: senate president. Cc: all foreign payment offices. Cc: board of directors. Cc: accountant general of the federation. Pn : today i received an sms on my phone and also someone rang me but unfortunately the person was not good in english and could not continue his talk and disconnected his call. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)