(Per Hon'ble Sri Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy)

 Aggrieved by the order, dated 24.11.2016, passed by a learned

Single Judge in WP.No.4159 of 2015, whereby the learned Single

Judge has set aside the termination orders dated 24.01.2015 and

allowed the writ petition, the appellants have approached this Court. 2. The parties are hereinafter referred to as they were arrayed

before the learned Single Judge. 3. In brief, the case of the petitioner is as follows: with effect from 01.08.2008. The said letter also included the condition

of termination of service with one month notice during the period of

three years. (c) By letter dated 01.04.2009, the services of the petitioner

were renewed for a further period of three years; the basic pay was

enhanced to Rs.49,990/-. Thereafter, on 01.04.2020 another renewal

letter was issued, renewing the services of the petitioner for another

period of three years, with revision of compensation to Rs.67,379/-.

Subsequently, the petitioner was promoted as Manager Grade-II with

retrospective effect from 01.04.2013, while revising the compensation

to Rs.77,621/-. Thereafter, by circular dated 20.03.2014,

the respondent No.3 expanded the role of the petitioner by giving him

full charge of Marketing, HR & Training and Development of entire

marketing work force of all the market verticals of the company.

However, the sincerity, efficiency and reputation of the petitioner had

become an eyesore to some of the vested interests. Therefore, they

prevailed over the management to suffocate, strangulate and

humiliate the petitioner by creating an atmosphere so that he would

leave the organization on his own. As a result, the petitioner was

relieved from HR duties by office order dated 25.06.2014, he was

transferred to a lower role. (d) Further, the petitioner reported to his new role before the

General Manager HBI pursuant to office order dated 25.06.2014.

Vide circulars dated 04.09.2013 and 08.09.2014, the respondents 4 revised the compensation packages to all the employees but denied

the same to the petitioner. Thus, the petitioner was humiliated and

subjected to deep rooted vindictiveness. Moreover, on 25.11.2014,

the petitioner was asked to vacate his cabin, and to share a cabin with

an employee much junior to him. In fact, the petitioner was given a

much smaller desk than his junior. Even his intercom line was

removed. When the petitioner applied for a casual line on 26.11.2014,

the same was rejected without giving any reason. On the same day,

the petitioner was asked to submit a daily work report for the entire

month starting 01.11.2014 which was not the normal practice in the

company. The petitioner addressed a representation dated 25.11.2014

to the Chairman; the same was received on 28.11.2014. As there was

no response, the petitioner made another request through email on

22.12.2014. As a counter-blast, the Company Secretary and Manager

Legal issued office order dated 02.01.2015 transferring the petitioner

to Distribution department at Ooty plant with immediate effect.

The said transfer was nearly 1000 KMs away from the work place

where the petitioner was working at the relevant time. (e) Moreover, the petitioner was transferred to a role in which

he had no previous experiences. The petitioner suffered health

problems due to the humiliation, and ill treatment meted out to him.

He was admitted in KIMS Hospital; he was advised to undergo

investigations including Angiogram (CAG) and other investigations.

This fact was intimated to the respondent No.2, the company,

on 05.01.2015 by the petitioner's spouse. But surprisingly, a show

cause notice dated 06.01.2015 was issued by the respondent No.2,

the company, to the petitioner alleging unauthorized absence without

permission or intimation. After being discharged from the hospital,

on 11.01.2015, the petitioner sent a reply. He denied the allegations

as baseless, and clarified that he was hospitalized. The information of 5 hospitalization was given to the respondent No.2, the company,

in time. Thus, his absence cannot be termed as "unauthorized".

The petitioner was subjected to further humiliation by the respondent

No.2 whereby under letter dated 16.01.2015, he was asked to vacate

the quarters by 15.02.2015. The petitioner was admitted to KIMS

hospital on 23.01.2015 to rectify urological defect. While the petitioner

was actually undergoing treatment, the respondent No.2 issued the

impugned termination order dated 24.01.2015 by invoking clause 18

of the appointment letter dated 02.03.2007, with one month basic pay

in lieu of notice with immediate effect. (f) According to the petitioner, though the impugned order is

termed as termination of contract, it is, in fact, a camouflage of the

orders of termination under the garb of a renewal of the services and

the amendment made to the condition therein. The petitioner has

rendered eight years of service with the respondent No.2. Though the

petitioner is termed as "a contract employee" he has been treated as

"a regular employee". This fact is evident from the letter dated

10.08.2007. The pay slips issued by the respondent No.2,

the company, specifically mentions that the petitioner was

"a permanent employee". The certificate issued by the General

Manager HR, dated 24.08.2010, also clearly indicates that the

petitioner is "a permanent employee" of the organization. Therefore,

according to the petitioner, the termination order is issued in

colourable exercise of power for extraneous and collateral reasons. 4. In the counter affidavit filed by the respondents, preliminary

objection regarding maintainability of the writ petition was raised.

Further the following brief averments were made: The management of the respondent No.2 is absolutely independent of

Government; it has its own independent board; no stake of the

Government is involved in the respondent No.2. Moreover, the

company is registered as a 'non-government company' by the

Registrar of Companies, Hyderabad. Therefore, the respondent No.2 is

not an instrumentality of the State. Hence, the writ petition is not

maintainable. (b) As per the objectives of the respondent No.2-company its

duty is only towards its members and customers. It is neither a

statutory body, nor governed by a statute. Its functions are also not

akin to governmental functions. It cannot be characterized as a public

body. The contract between the respondent No.2 and the petitioner

cannot be treated as belonging to public law. It is a pure and simple

contract of service, regulating, circumscribing and governing the

relationship between the petitioner and the respondents. This issue

was also considered in a catena of decisions including RAJASTHAN

STATE ROAD TRANSPORT CORPORATON v. KRISHNAKANTH

[AIR 1995 SC 1715]; DEEPAK KUMAR BISWAS v. DIRECTOR OF

PUBLIC INSTRUCTIONS [(1987) 2 SCC 252]; CHANDER MOHAN

KHANNA v. N.C.E.R.T. [(1991) 4 SCC 578]; HEAVY ENGINEERING

UNION v. STATE OF BIHAR [( 1969) 3 SCR 995] and TEKRAJ

VASANDI v. UNION OF INDIA [AIR 1988 SC 496]. (c) On merits, the respondents pleaded that initially the

petitioner was appointed on contract basis, under letter dated

02.03.2007, for a period of three years. The same was renewed from

time to time based on organizational needs and subject to meting the

performance standard. The petitioner had some or the other issues

with the co-employees. He used to disobey the instructions of the

superiors, and the functional heads. He was involved in unnecessary

arguments with colleagues, insubordination, sore relations with

co-employees etc. In spite of several warnings, the petitioner never

bothered to respect his colleagues. His disrespectful behavior

compelled the organization to move him from one department to

another in anticipation that would mend his ways. Vide transfer order

dated 02.01.2015, the petitioner was transferred to Ooty,

on administrative reasons. The petitioner pretended to be unwell on

receipt of the said letter. He was asked to show medical documents to

prove his claim of ill-health. But he failed to prove the same.

The petitioner did not report to duty on 05.01.2015.

Thus, termination order was issued to the petitioner vide letter dated

24.01.2015 as per the terms of the fixed tenure employment.

The termination letter along with a cheque equivalent to one month's

salary (in lieu of one month notice period) was served on the

petitioner on 24.01.2015 as provided for by the terms of his contract

of fixed tenure employment. (d) In the counter, the respondents further denied the

allegations in the writ affidavit while adverting to each para in the

affidavit. 5. In rejoinder, the petitioner stated that the respondent No.2 is,

indeed, a wholly owned subsidiary company of NDDB, which in turn is

a Government company incorporated as an institution of national 8 importance under a special Act of the Parliament - the NDDB Act,

1987 (Act 37 of 1987). The respondent No.2 is very much related and

connected with the Government of India. The mere fact that the

respondent No.2 is registered as a separate company, and it also

managed to get itself registered under the sub-category of a

non-government company would not change the fact of it being a

wholly owned by Government of India institution. Moreover, there are

no private individuals holding shares in the respondent No.2. In fact,

the entire equity is owned by NDDB, which is an instrumentality of the

Government of India. This makes it amply clear that the respondent

No.2 is a Government owned company. Mother Dairy, another subsidiary of NDDB, was held to be a

public authority on account of it being substantially financed by the

Central Government by the High Court of Delhi in MOTHER DAIRY

FRUIT & VEGETABLE PVT. LTD. v. HATIM ALI [WP.Nos.3110 and

5809 of 2011). The other points which would clarify the status of the

respondent No.2 as having connections with the Government are: 6. In the counter-affidavit to the rejoinder of the petitioner,

the respondent No.2 stated that NDDB itself does not appoint the

Board of Director of the respondent No.2. The appointment of Board of

Directors would be decided in the Annual General Body Meeting of the

respondent No.2. Further, there are independent Directors also on the

board of the respondent No.2. They are appointed basing on their

qualification, experience etc. The Managing Director is appointed by

duly selected Board of Directors of the respondent No.2.

The conducting of recruitment for SC/ST or directing employees not to

criticize the Government would not indicate that the respondent No.2

is an agency or instrumentality of the State. The respondent No.2 was

a unit of NDDB initially. But later on, it was incorporated as a separate

company. It was deleted from the list of units of NDDB; it was added

in the list of subsidiaries of NDDB. The judgment of the Delhi High

Court in MOTHER DAIRY 's case (supra) is out of context. For, it was

rendered with reference to the provisions of the RTI Act , but not with

reference to Article 12 of the Constitution of India. The respondent

No.2 does not receive any grant or any financial aid from the

Government of India; it generates its own income. The Board takes all

decisions for running the company. There is no public duty discharged

by the respondent No.2. For, its operations are purely commercial in

nature. The respondent No.2 does not satisfy the test laid by the

Hon'ble Supreme Court for treating it as an agency or instrumentality

of the State. 7. Heard Mr. C.R. Sridharan, the learned Senior Counsel for the

appellants, and Mr. Narendra Agarwal, the party-in-person, considered

the impugned order, and perused the record. 8. The learned senior counsel for the appellants has raised the

following contentions: (b) There is no deep and pervasive control of the Government in

the Board, as required under Article 12 of the Constitution of India.

NDDB is neither an authority, nor an instrumentality of the State.

The findings of the learned Single Judge in paras 22 and 23 are

contradictory to the findings in BALWANT RAI SALUJA v. AIR

INDIA LIMITED1 case. (c) Though NDDB was declared as an institute of national

importance, mere 100% control by the Government would not make a 1 (2014) 9 SCC 407 11 company a public authority. Similarly, NDDB also does not become a

public authority. (d) The High Court of Delhi in MOTHER DAIRY 's case held

parental concern public authority under Article 12 of the Constitution

of India. However, the said case did not deal with Article 12 of the

Constitution of India, but dealt with public authority under the RTI Act with reference to Section 2(h) of the RTI Act. The authority does not

fall within the said definition. Moreover , the said decision was appealed

before a Division Bench and the decision of the learned Single Judge

was stayed. Thus, the learned Single Judge, in the instant case, was

not justified in relying on MOTHER DAIRY 's case. (e) Drawing comparison to operations of Air India under Section

9 of the Air Corporations Act, Air India is required to act as per the

directions of the Central Government. However, under Section 11 of

the NDDB Act, the board has to act on the basis of sound business

principles, and not according to the directions of the Central

Government. Thus, there is no supervisory control of the Government. (f) The holding company herein i.e. NDDB is not a company

incorporated under the Companies Act . It is not a body corporate.

Thus, the Doctrine of Lifting of the Corporate Veil is inapplicable.

NDDB is a separate entity. The learned Single Judge having held that

the respondent No.2 does not perform public duty, yet holds that it

comes within the ambit of the Article 12 of the Constitution of India.

This conclusion is contrary to a catena of judgments of the Supreme

Court wherein ratio is laid down that no Mandamus can be issued

against an organization or entity, which does not discharge public

duty. (g) There is no other pleading except that the respondent No.2

is wholly owned by the Government of India and subsidiary of NDDB.

Even Certificate of Incorporation clearly shows that the respondent 12 No.2 is registered as non-government company. Thus, the respondent

No.2 is not amenable to writ jurisdiction. The main object of the

respondent No.2 is to manufacture vaccines and animal health

products. Hence, it does not perform any public function. It carries out

commercial functions. The relationship between the petitioner and the

respondent No.2 is that of contractual service; it is part of private law

and not public law. Hence, writ petition was not even maintianable. DRAINAGE2 case are inapplicable to the facts of the present case.

The respondent No.2 is not an authority under Article 12 of the

Constitution of India. Even if there is deep and pervasive control either

financial or administrative by NDDB over the respondent No.2,

even the respondent No.2 cannot be considered as an instrumentality

of the State. 9. Per contra, Mr. Narendra Agarwal, party-in-person, has raised

the following contentions: Under letters dated 27.04.2016, 12.05.2016 and 24.07.2016,

the respondent No.2 intimated that the matter is subjudice. (c) Gazette notification dated 09.09.2002 pertaining to NDDB

Amendment Regulations, 2020 indicate that the respondent No.2 is

added as a subsidiary company of NDDB. 2 (2015) 4 SCC 670 13 (d) The report of independent auditors of the respondent No.2

clearly shows that NDDB is one of the enterprises as Principal

Shareholder having significant influence in the affairs of the

respondent No.2. (e) The Chairman of the respondent No.2 is also the Chairman

of NDDB. Under letter dated 24.08.2010 issued by the General

Manager (HR) of the respondent No.2, it was certified that the

petitioner is a permanent employee of the respondent No.2.

The respondent No.2 is under public sector. (f) As per clause 7 of the terms and conditions of the

employment, the petitioner could have been appointed in any

department of the respondent No.2-company or posted to any

establishment of Indian Immunologicals Limited or NDDB. (g) The respondent No.2 was created by NDDB with an object to

help NDDB in making India self-reliant in milk production under the

Government of India's (GOI) 'Operation Flood' Program. The mandate

of the respondent No.2 is to make available a high quality Foot and

Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccines to the farmers of the counter at a price

which they could afford a very important national mission. (h) The respondent No.2 was corporatized in the year 1999 with

the prior permission of GOI. Later, the respondent No.2 ventured into

making of high quality yet affordable Anti Rabies Vaccine (ARV) for the

people of India and helped GOI get rid the counter of dangerous Nerve

Tissue Vaccine (NTV). Since inception the respondent No.2 remained

undisputed market leader in FMD production and supply to

Governments. It has got monopoly in that field. (i) The respondent No.2, even today, continues to pursue the

mandate of NDDB, which is parent company. Since 1999 till 2016 the

Chairperson of NDDB was Chairperson of the respondent No.2. NDDB

owns 100% equity of the respondent No.2. The respondent No.2 14 cannot issue a single equity share to anyone without approval of

NDDB. The respondent No.2 cannot be placed for liquidation except by

an order of GOI, being wholly subsidiary of NDDB. (j) The employees of the respondent No.2 are transferable to

NDDB and vice versa. NDDB gives interest free work capital and term

loan to the respondent No.2. The entire Board of the respondent No.2

is under complete control of NDDB (holding company).

The respondent No.2 is required to follow GOI's directives to give

reservation to SC/ST people in recruitment. It comes under Ministry of

Agriculture. The subsidiary of the respondent No.2 is also subsidiary of

NDDB. The respondent No.2 uses the vehicles with 'Government

Vehicle' tag. There is a deep and pervasive control of NDDB on the

respondent No.2. (k) The parameters and observations of the Supreme Court in a

catena of decisions clearly apply to the appellant company to

substantiate that it is a wholly owned by State and financed by State

and indirectly by GOI being under complete control of the holding

company, NDDB and thus, is an agency and instrumentality of the

State. (l) The activities of the respondent No.2 are of public

importance and for the benefit of the general public, more particularly,

the farming community. The numerous documents filed in support of

the writ petition and the nature of employment clearly indicates that

the petitioner is a permanent employee and could not have been

terminated under a simplicitor termination letter. 10. Based on the above rival contentions, the following issues arise

for consideration in this appeal: ISSUE Nos.1 and 2: 11. The definition of State under Article 12 of the Constitution of

India is not exhaustive. It is an inclusive definition. The concept of

State, its entities and functionality has undergone sea change for the

past few decades. The predominant character of welfare state prior to

eighties and nineties has drastically changed. The State through its

agencies and instrumentalities even ventured into profit making

activities like housing, infrastructure, breweries, software

development, metro rail etc. in contrast to its predominant functions

like collection of revenue, maintenance of law and order etc. In pursuit

of such activities different entities/companies/organizations were

formed. The constitutional Courts had occasion from time to time to

deal with the nature of constitution, activities, funding etc. of such

entities so as to determine whether such entities are 'State' within

'Article 12' of Constitution of India. There cannot be a straightjacket

formula as to what parameters and indicia decide an entity to be a

State. It differs with the fact situation in each case. There are several

decisions of the Supreme Court and various High Courts on this

subject. 12. Learned senior counsel has drawn the attention of this Court to

the following decisions: 13. From the above authoritative pronouncements the following

indicia are deducible to determine whether an entity/

company/organization is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of

the Constitution of India and is amenable to writ jurisdiction or not. (a) Mandamus lies to secure the performance of a public or

statutory duty, and not performance of obligations which are of private

character (PRAGA TOOLS CORPORATON). (b) The Government company in which majority of shares are

held by government; where there is deep and pervasive control of its

day-to-day administration is a State. (MYSORE PAPER MILLS LTD.) (c) The majority of governing body of the organization

substantially comprises of private individuals and when it does not

discharge governmental or sovereign functions such organization is not

a State (PRADEEP BISWAS). 3 1969 (1) SCC 585 4 (2002) 2 SCC 167 5 (2001) 1 SCC 298 6 2002 (5) SCC 111 7 2003 (4) ALD 693 DB 8 (2003) 8 SCC 639 9 (1964) 3 SCR 686 = AIR 1963 SC 1890 10 1970 (1) SCC 177 11 (1986) 2 SCC 156 12 (2013) 8 SCC 345 17 (d) The company having limited share holding of Government;

Chairman and Board of Directors are not appointed by Government

and it is not entrusted with statutory/public duties is not a State and

not amenable to writ jurisdiction (ANDHRA PRADESH PAPER MILLS

LIMITED). (e) The company wherein Government has 50% shares but

management committee is dominated by 2/3rd non-government

members is not a State (KISAN SAHKARI CHINI MILLS LTD). (f) The company which has not given control of running to the

alleged parent company (AIR INDIA) and functions of appointment,

dismissal, disciplinary action etc. is retained by the company is not a

State (BALWANT RAI SALUJA). The employees of the company

cannot be placed at the same footing as Air India's regular employees. (g) The corporation carrying out a governmental activity and

governmental functions of vital importance is a State and amenable to

writ jurisdiction (CENTRAL INLAND WATER TRANSPORT

CORPORATION LIMITED). (h) The whole time Directors of the Company are appointed by

State (President of India); the company is under obligation to submit

monthly, half-yearly performance reports to the Government

(of India); company implementing reservation policy as per directions

of Government. The company and alleged parent company have a

common Chairman; the company is an 'authority' amenable to writ

jurisdiction (BALMER LAWRIE & COMPANY LIMITED). 14. Now coming to the case on hand it is relevant to check the

background as to how NDDB and the Indian Immunologicals Limited

were formed and what is the nature of their functions and activities: 15. The salient features of the NDDB Act are culled out hereunder: 16. Regulation 2 of the National Dairy Development Board Officers

(Appointment, Pay and Allowance) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002 is

extracted below: shall be deleted: and the following "companies" shall be added:- (2) In the definition of "Subsidiary Unit" in clause (u) of
 Sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 , the following Units
 shall be deleted: 17. Relevant Articles of Association of the respondent No.2 with

respect to Board of Directors are extracted hereunder: (2) Subject to Article 9 , NDDB shall have a right to appoint
 directors on Board of the Company. (3)... (4)... (5) The term of office for remaining Directors shall be
 three years and such Directors shall retire on the
 expiry of the said term or on their ceasing to be in the 21 employment of their organizations whether on
 resignation or otherwise; whichever is earlier.
 However, NDDB may re-appoint any Director or
 Directors for such period as it may decide. (6) Subject to the provisions of Section 284 of the Act, the
 NDDB may remove any director from office at any
 time before they complete the term. 18. It is not in dispute that the respondent No.2 is wholly owned

subsidiary of NDDB. NDDB is a body corporate owned by the

Government of India constituted under the NDDB Act, 1987 (37 of

1987). Under the NDDB Amendment Regulations, 2002, dated

09.09.2020, the respondent No.2 is shown as one of the subsidiary

companies of NDDB. Article 10(2) makes it clear that NDDB has right

to appoint the Directors on Board of the respondent No.2. Under Article 10(5) , NDDB has authority to reappoint any Director or

Directors for such period as it may decide. Under Article 10(6) , NDDB

may remove any Director from office at any time before they complete

the term subject to Section 284 of the Companies Act. 19. Moreover, in the certificate issued by the respondent No.2,

dated 24.08.2008, expressing its no objection for issuance of passport

to the petitioner, it was specifically mentioned that the respondent

No.2 is under "public sector". Further, the financial audit report of the

respondent No.2, for the period between 2014 and 2015, shows that

one Sri T. Nanda Kumar was the Chairman of the respondent No.2 and

one of the key management personnel. During the same period,

Sri T. Nanda Kumar was also the Chairman of NDDB. The audit

statement also shows that NDDB is the principal shareholder of the

respondent No.2. Thus, it is clear that NDDB has got direct and

pervasive control over the affairs of the respondent No.2. 22 20. The incorporation of the respondent No.2, nature of its

activities, the manner in which the respondent No.2 is conducting its

affairs and the control of NDDB over the respondent No.2, are all the

factors which indicate that the NDDB has absolute control over the

management of the respondent No.2. Apart from the financial control,

whereby the NDDB is the principal shareholder of the respondent No.2,

NDDB also has management control over the respondent No.2.

For, the Board of the respondent No.2 is constituted by NDDB; NDDB

is having absolute right to reappoint and remove the Directors of the

respondent No.2. Though the respondent No.2 is registered as

subsidiary company of NDDB, but the power to appoint, reappoint or

remove a director, vested in NDDB clearly proves that the respondent

No.2 is under the direct and effective control of NDDB, which is a

public sector organization. 21. The Memorandum of Association of the respondent No.2

contains the main objects of the company, which are extracted below: "A. MAIN OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY TO BE
 PURSUED IN ITS INCORPORATION: 1. To acquire and take over the ongoing business of
 Indian Immunologicals, manufacturers of vaccines and animal
 health products, a Managed unit of National Dairy Development
 Board with all or any of the assets and liabilities ... to enter into
 any agreement with M/s. National Dairy Development Board on
 one part and the proposed Company Indian Immunologicals
 limited ... 2. To carry on business as manufacturer, fabricator,
 assembler, processors, traders, importers, Exporters,
 consignors, principals, owners, agents, factors, buyers, sellers,
 constructors and hirers of and dealers in all types of
 pharmaceuticals, drugs, medicines, chemicals, herbals,
 diagnostics, antibiotics, antiseptics, disinfectants, opticals,
 biologicals ... and things capable of being used in connection
 with such products or required by the customers dealing with
 this company. 2A. To carry on business as producers, manufactures,
 imports, exporters, traders, dealers, distributors, stockist, ...
 containers for the semen and liquid nitrogen, all classes, kinds,
 types and descriptions of cattle, buffalo and their cross breads,
 ... set up management information systems, develop and
 provide technologies/software relating to feeding, artificial
 insemination, progeny testing, management and health care of
 animals." 22. Thus, as seen from the above, there cannot be any iota of doubt

that the respondent No.2 is incorporated in furtherance of achieving

goals and objects of NDDB. The activities of the respondent No.2 are

not independent of the NDDB. The comparison of the provisions of the

NDDB Act and Articles of Association, Memorandum of Association of

the respondent No.2 reveal that the activities of both the entities are

complimentary to each other, which is further strengthened by the

NDDB Regulations as amended in the year 2002. May be as a

subsidiary company, the respondent No.2-company has got

independent legal existence. However, the main purpose of creation of

the respondent No.2 is not only to fulfill and accomplish the objectives

of NDDB but also to further give more independence in manufacturing,

developing pharmaceuticals, medicines, herbals, antibiotics etc. and

also to carry on business in dairy buffalo breeds of all classes, kinds

etc; manufacture of artificial insemination equipment, containers of

semen etc. which are all ancillary activities meant to support the cattle

breed, which is the main backbone of the Indian farming community

and livestock. And to act as support system to the main activities of

NDDB. The object of the respondent No.2 is not just to do commercial

activities, but more so for protecting, developing and upgrading cattle

breed in India. Thus, the respondent No.2 is discharging a public duty

and functions of national importance, more particularly, for protecting

the interests of farming community and people dependant on livestock

and dairy farming. 23. The contention of the learned Senior Counsel that the activities

of the respondent No.2 are only dependant on the requirements of its

members and customers and not related to public duties is

unacceptable. In view of the clear admission of the respondent No.2

that it is a public sector undertaking vide letter dated 24.08.2008;

the fact that it is discharging the functions in consonance with the

Directive Principles of State Policy under Article 48 of the Constitution

of India, namely to organize animal husbandry on scientific line and to

improve the breeds of cattle, it is held that the respondent No.2 is not

only discharging public duty, but is also an instrumentality of the

State. 24. As borne out from the record, originally the Indian

Immunologicals Limited was a subsidiary unit of NDDB. The NDDB

(Amendment) Regulations, 2002 were framed in exercise of powers

conferred by Section 48 of the NDDB Act. It appears that three

subsidiary units i.e. (1) Mother Dairy, Delhi, (2) Indian Dairy

Machinery Company and (3) Indian Immunologicals were constituted.

As evident from the record, the Mother Dairy unit (Delhi) was created

for the purpose of manufacturing, marketing and selling of milk and

milk products, ice creams etc. (motherdairy.com). The Indian Diary

Machinery Company (Anand, Gujarat) was created for the purpose of

manufacturing dairy equipments, components, cattle feed equipment,

cattle feed plants, pharmaceutical equipment, refrigeration etc. and to

contribute to moderating their prices (idmc.com). Likewise, the Indian

Immunologicals (Hyderabad), which is another subsidiary, was created

for the purpose of developing, maintaining, upgrading etc. medicines,

vaccines and for carrying out ancillary activities like artificial

insemination, protecting and upgrading cattle breed etc. These three

units are created under Section 43 of the NDDB Act to achieve the 25 objects of NDDB. The purpose of constituting these three units was not

to make them independent and unconnected with NDDB, but it was

otherwise. Later, in order to expand the activities of the subsidiary

units and also to enable them to have certain functional autonomy;

to ensure equitable distribution of activities of NDDB, the subsidiary

units were upgraded as companies under the NDDB Officers

(Appointment, Pay and Allowance) (Amendment) Regulations, 2002,

which have been set up in various parts of the country. All these three

companies have been constituted as wholly owned subsidiaries of

NDDB. 25. Thus, the observations drawn above lead to irresistible

conclusion that the activities of the respondent No.2 have the flavour

of public duties. Hence, this Court holds that the respondent No.2 is a

State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India and

is amenable to writ jurisdiction. The decisions relied upon by the

learned Senior Counsel do not help the case of the appellants.

For, the activities of the companies/entities therein strictly do not

amount to discharging public or statutory duties. 26. The submission of the learned Senior Counsel that the

respondent No.2 is registered as a private company, and that the

activities of the company are dependant on requirements of its

members and customers and it is not an instrumentality of the State,

is without any force. There is no relevant material pointed out by the

learned Senior Counsel to show that the respondent No.2 is a purely

private and commercial enterprise, and totally unconnected with the

affairs of NDDB. 27. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that the learned Single

Judge fell in error by wrongly applying the doctrine of lifting of 26 corporate veil in the instant case. The said doctrine has to be invoked

in exceptional circumstances, and only for discovering whether two

companies are really identical in case of fraud, entities being a mere

cover or façade to conceal the fraud. The Courts are entitled to lift the

veil of corporate entity and to pay regard to economic realities behind

illegal façade. Learned senior counsel further submitted that subsidiary

company is an independent entity. The impugned order passed by the

learned Single Judge is per incuriam since the provisions of the Companies Act and the settled legal position on the doctrine of lifting

of corporate veil have been ignored. To buttress his contentions,

the learned senior counsel relied on the following decisions: 28. The above contentions of the learned senior counsel are without

any merit. The doctrine of lifting/piercing of corporate veil is not a

concept which has limited application for particular type of cases.

No doubt, such doctrine is applied mostly in cases of tax frauds, and in

matters dealing with economic activities of companies. There cannot

be any straightjacket formula under which the doctrine of lifting of

corporate veil could be applied. Even in disputes relating to

workman/employee, the doctrine of lifting of corporate veil has been 13 1963 SCC Online Cal 6 : AIR 1963 Cal 529 14 (1967) 1 SCR 934 : AIR 1967 SC 819 15 1969 (1) SCC 765 16 (1995) 4 SCC 546 17 (2002) 4 SCC 638 18 (1988) 2 SCC 602 19 (2006) 5 SCC 752 20 (2014) 7 SCC 340 27 applied in MYSORE PAPER MILLS LTD. 's case ( 4 supra) and PRADEEP

BISWAS 's case (6 supra); CENTRAL INLAND WATER TRANSPORT

CORPORATION LIMITED 's case (11 supra). In any event,

the doctrine of lifting of corporate veil is not of much relevance in the

instant case. For, from the admitted documents forming part of record,

it is clear the respondent No.2 is a wholly owned subsidiary company

of NDDB and there is a clear admission by the respondent No.2 that it

is a public sector undertaking; it is also implementing reservation

policy for SC/ST category. Thus, the contention of the learned Senior

Court that the learned Single Judge wrongly applied the doctrine of

lifting of the corporate veil and that the impugned judgment is

per incuriam the settled legal propositions is without any merit.

ISSUE No.3: 29. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that the employment of

the petitioner is purely contractual. The petitioner is not discharging

any public duty. The petitioner was initially appointed for a period of

three years. From time to time his tenure was extended.

Mere reference to retirement age as 58 years does not alter the nature

of employment, which is temporary. There is no material to show that

the petitioner is a permanent employee of the respondent No.2.

In fact, the respondent No.2 does not have any employees, who hold

permanent employment. The appointment letter dated 02.03.2007 and

further renewal letters clearly show that the employment of the

petitioner is only temporary. And the petitioner is being paid

compensation and based on his performance, he was given annual

incentive from time to time. 30. The learned senior counsel relied upon GRIDCO. LTD. v.

SADANANDA DOLOI21 wherein the Supreme Court held as under: AIR 2012 SC 729 29 31. On the other hand, Mr. Narendra Agarwal, the party-in-person,

has submitted that under letter dated 10.08.2007, the petitioner was

informed that based on his appraisal for the period 2006-2007,

his increment for the year fixed at 7% and the terms of employment

are modified. It also contains one condition that the petitioner shall

retire on attaining the age of 58 years in accordance with the rules and

regulations of the respondent No.2. The petitioner was promoted to

higher levels from time to time and was also given annual increments.

In the pay slips issued by the respondent No.2-company for the

months of January 2014, March 2014, April 2009, December 2013 etc.

it was indicated as 'Employee Group - Permanent'. There is no

material produced by the respondent No.2-company that the activities

of the company are temporary in nature and dependant on the

requirements of its members and customers. On the other hand, the

nature of employment, pay slips, the manner in which the petitioner

was receiving annual increments, transfer to different departments

and promoted to higher posts from time to time clearly prove that

petitioner was in permanent employment of the respondent No.2. 32. The documents relied upon by the parties herein, as discussed

supra, do not in any manner create a doubt that the petitioner is not a

permanent employee. The payment of increments, enhancement of

salary from time to time, admission by the respondent No.2 that the

petitioner will retire at the age of 58 years and bound by service rules,

further clinching evidence of acknowledgment of the respondent No.2

in the pay slips treating the petitioner as permanent employee belies

the contention of the learned Senior Counsel that the petitioner is in

contractual employment. The petitioner was not only given promotions

but also transferred from one unit to another unit of the respondent

No.2, company, which in normal employment relationship is not 30 indicative of temporary or contractual employment. The nature of

employment of the petitioner has all attributes of permanent

employment. Hence, the petitioner is held to be a permanent

employee of the respondent No.2, company. The judgment in

GRIDCO. LTD 's case (21 supra) is not applicable to the instant case

since the services of the employee therein were for temporary period

and it was a case where the employee submitted representations for

extension of tenure of appointment till superannuation; in terms of

conditions of temporary employment, the employee therein was

terminated by giving three moths salary in lieu of notice period.

ISSUE No.4: 33. The respondent No.2 has service rules viz. Indian

Immunologicals Limited Conduct, Disciplinary and Appeal Rules

(for short 'the Rules'), which came into force from 18.10.1999.

Rule 3(a) of the Rules defines the term 'employee'. Rule 24 deals with

'penalties' - minor penalties and major penalties. Rule 25 provides for

'Disciplinary Authority' for imposing penalties under Rule 24. Rule 26

deals with 'Procedure for Imposing Major Penalties. Rule 27 deals with

'Action on the Inquiry Report'. Rule 33 deals with 'Appeals' against

order imposing penalties on employee. Rule 34 deals with the power of

'Review' wherein the reviewing authority may call for record of any

case within six months from the date of final order against any major

penalty. 34. The learned Senior Counsel has drawn the attention of this

Court to the similarity of facts of STATE OF U.P. v. KAUSHAL

KISHORE SHUKLA22 to the present case. Relying upon the said

decision , it is submitted that, even if preliminary enquiry is conducted

into the charges leveled against an employee appointed on temporary 22 (1991) 1 SCC 691 31 basis, and subsequently his services are terminated under simplicitor

proceedings, it cannot be understood that there is an element of

punity proceedings. For, it is always open to the employer to make an

order of discharge simplicitor in terms of the contract of service.

The same was done in the instant case. Learned Senior Counsel relied

on the following paras of the said judgment : 35. In the light of the observations made in issue No.3 holding that

the petitioner is a permanent employee, the above cited judgment will

be of no help to the respondent No.2 inasmuch as the company is

bound by its service rules for termination of its permanent employees

and cannot resort to termination simplicitor on the wrong assumption 32 of petitioner's employment being temporary in nature. The service

rules/regulations (by whatever name called) of the respondent No.2

have statutory force since it is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India and discharging public duties.

The petitioner being selected under the recruitment policy of the

respondent No.2 and moreover governed by service rules,

as discussed in paras 31 to 33 above, cannot be removed dehors such

rules. Thus, the termination order dated 20.01.2015 is illegal and in

breach of service rules. The Supreme Court in SUKHDEV SINGH v.

BHAGAT RAM23 held as under: 36. The decision relied upon by the learned Senior Counsel in RAMAKRISHNA MISSION v. KAGO KUNYA24 is also not applicable

to the facts of the present case since the Hon'ble Supreme Court was

dealing with the activities of a hospital established by Mission and it

was held that the hospital was not discharging any public duty;

the relationship between the employer and the employee was purely

contractual and within the realm of private law. 37. Since in issue No.3 it is held that the petitioner is a permanent

employee, the rules are required to be followed for the purpose of

subjecting the petitioner to disciplinary proceedings. The judgments

cited by the learned Senior Counsel would not come to the rescue of

the respondent No.2 since the service of the petitioner is permanent in

nature. 38. In the light of the above, this Court does not find any merit in

the writ appeal; the same is liable to be dismissed. Accordingly, it is,

hereby, dismissed. 24 2019 SCC Online SC 501 35 As a sequel, the miscellaneous petitions, pending if any,

shall stand closed. There shall be no order as to costs. ____________________________
 RAGHVENDRA SINGH CHAUHAN, CJ

 __________________
 B. VIJAYSEN REDDY, J
January 4th, 2021
DSK