(Per : Anil S. Kilor, J) 1. Heard. Judgment 2 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 2. This is an appeal filed under Section 374 of the Criminal

Procedure Code questioning the legality and validity of the judgment and

order dated 3rd June, 2024 passed by the learned Additional Sessions

Judge-1, Nagpur in Sessions Case No.726 of 2021, thereby convicting

the appellant for offences punishable under Section 66-F of the

Information Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of

2000") read with Section 3(1)(c) and Section 5(1)(a) , (b), (c) and (d) of

the Official Secrets Act, 1923 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act of

1923"). 3. The appellant is sentenced to suffer life imprisonment for the

offence punishable under Section 66-F of the Act of 2000. He is

sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for fourteen years under Section 3(1)(c) of the Act of 1923 and is further sentenced to suffer

rigorous imprisonment for three years and to pay a fine of Rs.3,000/-, in

default to suffer further simple imprisonment for six months under Section 5(1)(a) , (b), (c) and (d) and Section 5(3) of the Act of 1923. 4. As recorded by the trial Court, it is the case of the prosecution

that the informant Harishanker Mishra (PW-1) filed a First Information

Report stating that he received secret information that Neha Sharma and

Pooja Ranjan were operating the Facebook accounts in the fake names

from Pakistan. The said foreign agents and spy are in contact via Internet
 Judgment 3 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

through these Facebook accounts with the unknown employees holding

important posts in various defence establishments in India. Important

data was leaked through them, which was pertaining to National Security. [email protected] and the ID of Pooja Rajan was URL

https://www.facebook.com/100009951960524 and the email ID was [email protected] . These Facebook accounts were operated

from Pakistan and it was likely to adversely affect the sovereignty,

integrity and security of India, which was directly useful to an enemy. So,

he filed the report at ATS, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. 5. The offence was registered vide Crime No.7 of 2018 under Sections 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 121A , 120B of the Indian Penal Code and

under Section 66-F of the Act of 2000 and under Sections 3 , 4 , 5 , 9 of

the Act of 1923. 6. The proposal for sanction order under Section 13(3) of the Act

of 1923 was sent to the Secretary (Home), Government of Uttar Pradesh,

Lucknow. The investigation was handed over to the Investigating Officer

Inspector Pankaj Awasthi, ATS Uttar Pradesh, Kanpur. For the

investigation purpose, he received the copy of report, general diary and

related documents. Judgment 4 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 7. After going through the report, he recorded the statement of

Inspector Harishankar Mishra, the informant, and Yogendranath Shukla,

the Head Constable, who registered the offence. He issued the letter to

the Director, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, Ministry of

Information and Technology, Government of India, Delhi and sought the

details of Facebook accounts and IP, creation IP address and other

relevant details. He issued letter by official e-mail to Deputy

Superintendent of Police Sonkar. 8. He opened the Facebook accounts of Pooja Ranjan and Neha

Sharma and found two Scientists, namely Debmalya Roy and Aarti

Kolhe, working in DMSRDE, Kanpur and accused Nishant Agrawal,

working at BrahMos Aerospace, Nagpur are in the friend-list of Pooja

Ranjan and Neha Sharma. With the help of Cert-In, New Delhi, the

Investigating Officer received the account details of the Facebook

account of Neha Sharma, which shows address of Islamabad, Pakistan. 9. The PI-Pankaj Awasthi, who is Investigating Officer (PW-11),

got search warrant against the accused and Debmalya Roy and Aarti

Kolhe. Judgment 5 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 10. The Investigating Officer approached ATS Nagpur and took

search of the house of the accused. On enquiry, the accused consented to

open his Facebook account on the official laptop of computer operator

Wakil Ahmad. It was found that the accused was in the friend-list of

Neha Sharma and Pooja Ranjan and was having communication with

Sejal Kapoor on Linkedin App. It was found that there was

communication in between Sejal Kapoor and the accused and Sejal

Kapoor had sent some links and asked the accused to download them on

laptop. The accused tried to download those links. On inspecting the

personal laptop of the accused, it was found that the accused was having

various files regarding BrahMos Supersonic Cruise Missiles and files of

BrahMos Company. 11. The Investigating Officer asked the Assistant Investigating

Officer to visit BrahMos Station, Nagpur, give notice under Section 91 of

the Criminal Procedure Code and seek information about the secret files. 12. Thereafter, the Investigating Officer seized the laptop, three

mobile handsets, one router, one hard-disc, laptop bag and charger and

prepared the seizure panchnama, by visiting house of the accused at

Nagpur. The Investigating Officer arrested the accused. Judgment 6 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 13. The Investigating Officer got details of Facebook accounts of

Sejal Kapoor and Pooja Ranjan by giving letter to the Director General,

Cert-In, New Delhi. The Investigating Officer searched the address of

Sejal Kapoor and personal laptop and found that the IP address of Sejal

Kapoor was created in Pakistan. The Facebook account of Pooja Ranjan

was having linked numbers from Pakistan. 14. The Investigating Officer prepared the questionnaires and sent

it to Director, Cert-In, New Delhi. The Investigating Officer collected the

documents from Hyderabad Team Officers. 15. The Assistant Investigating Officer Krushna Mohan Rai (PW- 8) visited the BrahMos Aerospace Hyderabad and made investigation

with regard to section in which the accused was working. He collected all

the documents and sent it to the Investigating Officer. He found that

from time to time external devices were inserted to the system of

BrahMos Aerospace Hyderabad, which was used by the accused Nishant

Agrawal. The system was containing various secret files pertaining to

BrahMos Missile. Those secret files were found in the personal laptop of

accused Nishant Agrawal. Judgment 7 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 16. When the personal laptop of the accused Nishant Agrawal was

seized, the Assistant Investigating Officer drew the hash value of all the

files of official system and prepared two copies in different DVD's. One

DVD was handed over to authority of Hyderabad and one DVD was

seized for investigation purpose. 17. The Assistant Investigating Officer has given notice to

BrahMos Aerospace Hyderabad and received the necessary documents.

Investigating Officer Inspector Pankaj Awasthi found that there was

chatting in between Nishant Agrawal and Sejal Kapoor. Nishant Agrawal

shared his bio-data on e-mail linked with Sejal Kapoor's Linkedin

account. 18. The Investigating Officer Pankaj Awasthi had sent laptop,

mobile phones and sim cards of accused Nishant Agrawal to Forensic

Laboratory, Cert-In, New Delhi. After receipt of report of analysis, it was

found that the accused Nishant Agrawal was having data on his laptop

and personal hard-disc containing stealing malware, namely chat 2 hire,

X-trust, Q-whisper and one update version of X-trust. It was mentioned

in the forensic report that links, which were already installed in the laptop

of the accused and remained active, are capable of sharing all the data and

cloud base server. Judgment 8 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 19. The Investigating Officer found 19 files which were titled as

secret and restricted files. Nishant Agrawal, while joining the duty, has

given the undertaking of maintaining secrecy. However, he has disclosed

his identity and accepted the friend request of the Facebook accounts

which were operated from Pakistan. It was found that those links namely

chat 2 hire, X-trust, Q-whisper and one update version of X-trust were

data stealing malware. The accused Nishant Agrawal during his posting at

Hyderabad unauthorizedly copied the secret and restricted files in his

personal laptop and personal hard-disc. All the data was pertaining to

BrahMos Supersonic cruise missiles used by all defence forces. 20. Investigating Officer Pankaj Awasthi has also given letter to the

Additional Director General (Crimes). The Additional Director General

(Crimes) gave letter to the Home Secretary, Uttar Pradesh Government.

He issued notice to the Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director of

BrahMos Aerospace. The Special Chief Judicial Magistrate, Custom,

Lucknow passed the order that it is not the Competent Court to take

cognizance. Thereafter, he filed the complaint before the learned Judicial

Magistrate First Class, Court No.8, Nagpur. He has submitted all the

documents to the Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi, which gave

sanction and authority to institute the complaint. So, he filed the

complaint under Section 66-F of the I.T.Act and under Sections 3(1)(c) , 5(1)(a) , (b), (c) and (d) and 5(3) of the Act of 1923. Judgment 9 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 21. The charge was framed against the accused under Section 66-F of the Act of 2000 and under Sections 3(c) , 5(1)(a) , (b), (c) and (d) and

5(3) of the Act of 1923. 22. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 23. The statement of the accused under Section 313 of the Criminal

Procedure Code was recorded. 24. The defence of the accused was of total denial. It was the

defence of the accused that on the basis of his qualifications, he got

placed in BrahMos Aerospace initially as Executive Trainee and

thereafter, as System Engineer and Senior System Engineer. His work was

appreciated by the Authorities of BrahMos. His Boss Alan Abraham gave

pen-drive having project material in official capacity in authorized

manner to all 23 executive trainees. He made project of Combined

Pneumatic Hydraulic System (CPHS) and submitted the project to his

superiors. Those documents were given to him by his superior Alan

Abraham. None of those files were secret, restricted and classified. He was

a part of the core team dealing with handing over of 70 to 80 missiles

during 2014 and 2018, to Armed Forces. He was part of the top secret

projects of BrahMos. He was having these files, documents in his official
 Judgment 10 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

system and he had not copied those documents on his personal devices.

He was awarded with 'Young Scientist Award' in the year 2017-2018. 25. It is the say of the defence that Sejal Kapoor approached him on

Linkedin account for a recruitment proposal. He sent his bio-data to her.

Sejal Kapoor asked him to download all three applications. He verified

the authenticity and genuineness of those applications and clicked on the

link. He accepted the friend request of Neha Sharma and Pooja Ranjan in

a normal stance. He was looking for new job prospects outside India. He

is innocent. 26. After considering and appreciating the material in the

chargesheet and the oral and documentary evidence and after hearing the

parties, the learned Additional Sessions Judge-1, Nagpur, has passed the

judgment and order dated 3rd June, 2024, which is impugned in the

present appeal. 27. We have heard learned counsel for both the parties. 28. Shri Manohar, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the

appellant argued that the learned trial Court committed grave error in

holding the appellant guilty. It is submitted that the prosecution has

failed to prove the offence beyond reasonable doubt. Judgment 11 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 29. It is submitted that even if the oral as well as documentary

evidence is considered, no offence under Section 66F of the Act of 2000

or under Section 3(1)(c) , Section 5(1)(a) , (b) & (c) and Section 5(3) of

the Act of 1923 can be said to be proved. It is argued that at the most it

can be said that the accused failed to take reasonable care or the accused

so conducted himself as to endanger the safety of the information

possessed by him. It is therefore, argued that the evidence brought on

record by the prosecution does not go beyond the offence punishable

under Section 5(1)(d) of the Act of 1923. 30. Shri Manohar, learned Senior Advocate has argued that there is

no evidence to show that the appellant unauthorisedly copied the secrets

or classified files in his personal device. It is argued that the material

which was found in the laptop of the appellant was relating to his project

which he did while working at Hyderabad. 31. It is argued that the appellant shared his bio-data on the e-mail

of Sejal Kapoor and also chatted with her on the Linked-in account for

the purpose of securing a job in the UK. However, there was no such

intention, as alleged, to attract Section 66F of the I.T.Act or Section 5(1) (a),(b),(c) of the Act of 1923. Judgment 12 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 32. It is argued that the learned trial Court has not recorded a single

finding to show the presence of prerequisites to attract offence punishable

under Section 66F of the Act of 2000 and despite the same the appellant

has been held guilty for the offence punishable under Section 66F of the

Act of 2000 and Sections 3(1)(c) , 5(1)(a) ,(b) and (c) of the Act of 1923,

and thus, the conviction of the appellant is perverse and without any

evidence. 33. On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor Shri

Doifode strongly opposed the appeal and submited that the undertaking

to maintain secrecy (Exh.26) submitted by the appellant is sufficient to

show that the appellant had every knowledge about the importance of the

documents and the consequences if the said documents are leaked. It is

argued that despite this fact he accepted the friend request of Neha

Sharma and Pooja Ranjan and further shared his bio-data to Sejal Kapoor.

It is submitted that the appellant also downloaded malware and because

of such malware the secret and classified information available in the

computer of the appellant was leaked. It is therefore, submitted that the

appellant was rightly held guilty and punished by the trial Court. 34. It is argued that the prosecution has examined 15 witnesses to

bring the guilt of the accused at home. It is submitted that the

prosecution has succeeded in proving and establishing the guilt of the
 Judgment 13 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

appellant beyond doubt. The evidence brought on record by the

prosecution has established the act of the appellant to copy the secret and

classified documents from the official desktop into his laptop and then

leaked the same by downloading the malware. It is, therefore, submitted

that no perversity is committed by the learned trial Court in punishing

the accused for the offence punishable under Section 66F of the Act of

2000 and Section 3(1)(c) , 5(1) (a) , (b), (c), (d) and 5(3) of the Act of

1923. 35. In light of the rival contentions, let us now examine and

scrutinize the evidence on record. 36. PW-1-Harishankar Ramaj Mishra, who was working as

Inspector with ATS Kanpur at the relevant time in the year 2018, has

deposed that he received the information that Neha Sharma and Pooja

Ranjan were operating in fake names from Pakistan on facebook. The

said foreign agents and spy are in contact via internet through these

facebook accounts with the unknown employees holding important

positions with various defence establishments in India including Uttar

Pradesh. The important data was leaked through them, which was

pertaining to national security. He further deposed that he prepared a

report and lodged it with the Police Station, A.T.S., Lucknow. Judgment 14 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 37. PW-2 Yogendra Nath Shivkant Shukla who was working as

Constable with Police Station-ATS, Lucknow has deposed that on lodging

the report by PW-1, he had registered the offence vide Crime No.7/2018

(Exh.22) for the offences punishable under Sections 419, 420, 467, 121-

A, 120-B of the IPC , Sections 66-D of the I.T.Act and under Sections 3 , 4 , 5 & 9 of the Act of 1923. 38. Thus, PW-1 and PW-2 have established that on receiving an

information by PW-1 that Neha Sharma and Pooja Ranjan were

operating in fake names from Pakistan on Facebook and important data

was leaked through the unknown employees holding important positions

with various defence establishments in India and on submission of report

by PW-1, PW-2 registered the crime vide Crime No.07 of 2018. 39. The learned trial Court while holding the accused guilty, has

observed in Para 92 that the accused unauthorizedly obtained the

classified documents on his personal device, he copied the secret,

restricted and sensitive information and documents from the official

computer of BrahMos Aerospace Limited, Hyderabad-Nagpur and

retained the same to his personal laptop and hard-disk. The accused

contacted various foreign agents through social media applications and

internet, and due to which, secret, restricted and sensitive documents
 Judgment 15 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

containing prohibited information was passed on to the foreign agents

which was prejudicial to the safety and security of State through internet

spyware. Thus, the act of the accused is prejudicial to safety, security and

interest of the State and constitutes offences under Section 3(1)(c) , Section 5(1)(a) ,(b),(c) and (d) and Section 5 of the Act of 1923 and Section 66F of the Act of 2000. 40. At this stage, therefore, it will be appropriate and beneficial to

refer to the above referred provisions under which the accused has been

held guilty. Section 66F of the Information Technology Act, 2000 reads

thus : Sections 3 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923 read thus : 4. ... 5. Wrongful communication, etc., of information.--
 (1) If any person having in his possession or control any secret
 official code or pass word or any sketch, plan, model, article,
 note, document or information which relates to or is used in a
 prohibited place or relates to anything in such a place, [or
 which is likely to assist, directly or indirectly, an enemy or
 which relates to a matter the disclosure of which is likely to
 affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the
 State or friendly relations with foreign States or which has
 been made or obtained in contravention of this Act,] or which
 has been entrusted in confidence to him by any person
 holding office under Government, or which he has obtained
 or to which he has had access owing to his position as a person
 who holds or has held office under Government, or as a
 person who holds or has held a contract made, on behalf of
 Government, or as a person who is or has been employed
 under a person who holds or has held such an office or
 contract-- (a) wilfully communicates the code or password, sketch, plan,
 model, article, note, document or information to any person
 other than a person to whom he is authorised to communicate
 it, or a Court of Justice or a person to whom it is, in the
 interests of the State his duty to communicate it; or
 Judgment 18 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt (b) uses the information in his possession for the benefit of
 any foreign power or in any other manner prejudicial to the
 safety of the State; or (c) retains the sketch, plan, model, article, note or document
 in his possession or control when he has no right to retain it,
 or when it is contrary to his duty to retain it, or wilfully fails to
 comply with all directions issued by lawful authority with
 regard to the return or disposal thereof; or (d) fails to take reasonable care of, or so conducts himself as to
 endanger the safety of, the sketch, plan, model, article, note,
 document, secret official code or password or information;
 he shall be guilty of an offence under this section.

 (2) If any person voluntarily receives any secret official code or
 password or any sketch, plan, model, article, note, document
 or information knowing or having reasonable ground to
 believe, at the time when he receives it, that the code,
 password, sketch, plan, model, article, note, document or
 information is communicated in contravention of this Act, he
 shall be guilty of an offence under this section. (3) If any person having in his possession or control any
 sketch, plan, model, article, note, document or information,
 which relates to munitions of war, communicates it, directly or
 indirectly, to any foreign power or in any other manner
 prejudicial to the safety or interests of the State, he shall be
 guilty of an offence under this section. (4) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be
 punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend
 to three years, or with fine, or with both." 41. It is evident from the language of Section 66F (1)(A) and 1(B) of the Act of 2000, wherein the expressions used 'with intent to threaten

the unity' and 'knowingly or intentionally' show that mens rea, which

means 'guilty mind', is an essential ingredient to attract the said

provision. Judgment 19 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 42. Similarly, Section 3(1) of the Act of 1923 uses expression " if

any person for any purpose prejudicial to the safety or interest of the

State." The word "purpose" also indicates the intention and knowledge of

such person. Under Section 3(2) of the Act of 1923, there is a

presumption that if a person, without lawful authority, makes, obtains,

collects, records, publishes or communicates any secret or prohibited

defence-related material, it is deemed to have been done with a purpose

prejudicial to the safety or interests of the State. However, for this

presumption to arise, the prosecution must first establish the

circumstances of the case, the conduct of the accused, or his known

character; once these are proved, it is not necessary to show that the

accused committed any specific act demonstrating a prejudicial purpose. 43. Similarly, the provision of Section 5(1)(a) , (b) and (c) of the Act

of 1923 uses expressions "wilfully communicates...", "uses the

information in his possession for the benefit of any foreign power or in

any other manner prejudicial to the safety of the State;" or "wilfully fails

to comply...", which indicate that to attract Section 5(1)(a) , (b) and (c) of

the Act of 1923, mens rea is required as a foundational requirement for

conviction. Judgment 20 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 44. Contrary to the above-referred requirements of Section 5(1) (a) , (b) and (c) of the Act of 1923, the language in Section 5(1)(d) of the said

Act uses expression "fails to take reasonable care of, or so conducts

himself as to endanger the safety of ..." which indicates negligence on the

part of the accused rather than a wilfull intent to disclose. In other words, Section 5(1)(d) attracts where the accused does not take proper, normal

and sensible precautions to protect the confidential material, or behaves

in a manner which exposes its secrecy or security, even if he did not

specifically intent to look or communicate it. 45. The expression "reasonable care", as used in Section 5(1)(d) of

the Act of 1923, has been judiciously and academically associated with

negligence. The Black's Law Dictionary, Ninth Edition defines the word

'reasonable care' as follows : 46. After having appreciated the pre-requisites to attract the

offences under which the appellant has been convicted, let us now move

to the oral evidence led by the prosecution to find out whether the

prosecution succeeded to bring on record the aforesaid prerequisites to

prove the guilt against the accused. Judgment 21 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 47. The prosecution has examined total 15 witnesses to bring the

guilt of the accused at home. PW-3, PW-4, PW-6 and PW-10 are the

witnesses who deposed about duties of the accused while working in

BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited at Hyderabad or at Nagpur, the data

allegedly collected from the desktop, and other relevant information

about the accused and the alleged classified documents, which according

to the prosecution were leaked by the accused. 48. PW-3-N.N.Kumar, who was working as Executive Director

(Production) with BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited, Hyderabad, has

deposed that initially, the accused was working as executive trainee at

Hyderabad during July 2013 to December 2013. Thereafter, he was

appointed as System Engineer on 30 th December 2013 and then

transferred to Nagpur in August 2014. 49. PW-4-Achyut Deo, who was working as General Manager at

BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited, Nagpur has deposed that Nishant

Agrawal was promoted in the year 2017 as Senior System Engineer and

was responsible for supervision of the mechanical parts of warhead

integration. Judgment 22 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 50. PW-10-Setu Ramchandran Krushnamurthy Ayer, Former Chief

General Manager of BrahMos has deposed that Nishant Agrawal joined

BrahMos as Executive Trainee in the year 2013. Thereafter, he was

appointed as Executive Engineer and was lastly posted at Nagpur. 51. Thus, it is evident that initially the accused was working as

Executive Trainee at Hyderabad during July 2013 to December 2013,

then he was appointed as System Engineer on 30 th December, 2013. He

was transferred to Nagpur in August 2014 and was then promoted in the

year 2017 as Senior System Engineer. 52. Let us now move to examine the material/documents found in

the desktop seized from the office at Hyderabad and the laptop of the

appellant, which are alleged to have been leaked by the accused. 53. According to PW-3, the accused was assigned to the Leak

Check and Fueling Section of Missile Integration at Hyderabad. It is one

of the stages of integration. One Masood Ahmad was Additional General

Manager (Production) at Hyderabad, who was subordinate to PW-3 and

accused Nishant was subordinate to Masood Ahmad. Accused Nishant

was also subordinate to Alan Abraham, who was incharge of the Leak

Check and Fueling Facility. Judgment 23 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 54. As per the version of PW-8-Krushna Mohan Rai, who was

working as Inspector, ATS, Kanpur, on his application permission was

granted for verification of the Desktop used by the accused. He further

states that the desktop which was used by accused Nishant was pointed

out by Bibish Thomas (PW-6). The file BrahMos Missile 310 was found

in the said desktop after extensive search, which was named as "secret" in

red colour. Other 12 files were searched, which were secret files relating to

BrahMos Missile. He states that when the desktop was checked, it was

revealed that previously on several occasions the pen-drive and hard disk

were used. 55. PW-10 has deposed that he received notice from ATS along

with pendrive wherein the documents were in the soft copy. He states

that the documents at Sr. Nos. 1 to 17 and 19 were created for training

and user documentation purpose. The document at Sr. No.18 was created

for inspection purpose for use by production agencies to ensure quality.

Document at Sr. No.11 is a technology received from Russia, which

contains more sensitive information. It contains seeker which is critical

part of the missile. He then states that if the technology is compromised

then the enemy can jam the transmission. He admitted that he deposed

on the basis of his general knowledge that if technology is compromised

the enemy can jam the transmission and seeker is critical part of the
 Judgment 24 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

missile. The unauthorized possession of all these documents is not in the

national interest. 56. He further deposed that there are four categories viz. top secret,

secret, confidential and restricted. Any information which may cause

harm to the national security is a classified information. Any information

which may cause serious damage to the national security is the secret

information. The restricted information is that which is not to be shared

or to be published and it is only for the official use of the organization.

No employee is authorized to keep the classified information in his

personal device. He further deposed that accused was not authorized to

keep the classified information in his personal device. 57. PW-7-Nilesh Mahadeorao Punse, who acted as Panch to house

search of the accused, has deposed that Nishant opened his Laptop and

showed his Facebook account. Neha Sharma and Pooja Ranjan were in

his friends list of Facebook account. One file with the file name 'secret' in

red colour was found in the laptop of Nishant. 58. According to PW-3, the accused was not authorized to keep the

departmental secret information in his computer. The secret document

No.BM/UDN/MSL was prepared as a draft version for approval by

technical specialists for issuing to the user. The document is a technical
 Judgment 25 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

description of BrahMos Missile CK-310. There are different

classifications of the documents. This document is classified as a secret

document considering its contents. If this document is compromised, the

technical know-how and the capability of the missile will be known to the

persons, who are not authorized to know it. The document was a

sensitive document. 59. PW-4 states that he knows the procedure adopted by the armed

forces for classification of information and documents, where he has

worked for 32 years. The information which is not required to be shared

other than the company people is a classified information. No employee

is authorized to keep the classified information in his personal electronic

device. The accused was not authorized to keep any classified

information in his personal device. The document bearing Secret

Document No. BM/UDN/MSL/1002/02/00, Technical Description

BrahMos missile (CK 10) was a classified information. This information

was sensitive and was relating to the security and integrity of the country.

From this information, the enemy may prepare defence to counter the

effect of the missile. 60. PW-6-Bibish Thomas Mathew, who was working as System

Manager, BrahMos, Hyderabad, has deposed that he had shown the ATS

team, the computer system, which was used by accused Nishant. At that
 Judgment 26 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

time, Gautam Das and Rohit Ravi Chandran were using the said

computer system. Lal Dhari Yadav, officer of ATS Lucknow started

inspecting the computer system. The officers of ATS Lucknow tried to

search secret files in the said system. They could find file No.BM/ UDN/

MSL/1002/02/00. Its technical description was BrahMos Missile

(CK310). In that folder 12 files were found. The files were of secret

nature. 61. It is thus, evident from the above discussed oral evidence

that the accused was assigned to the Leak Check and Fueling Section of

Missile Integration at Hyderabad. He was subordinate to Alan Abraham

who was the incharge of the Leak Check and Fueling Facility. Upon

inspection of the desktop, which was used by the appellant while he was

working in the office of BrahMos Aerospace Private limited, Hyderabad,

the file BrahMos missile CK310 was found. The file was named as 'secret'

in red colour. Other 12 files were searched and those were secret files

relating to BrahMos Missile. It was also noticed on inspection of desktop

that previously on several occasions the pendrives and hard disks were

used. 62. It is further evident that the documents found in the desktop

of the appellant, i.e. Documents at Serial Nos. 1 to 17 and 19 were

created for training and user documentation purpose. The document at
 Judgment 27 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

Sr. No. 18 was created for inspection purpose for the use by production

agencies to ensure quality. Whereas, Serial No.11 is a technology from

Russia which, according to PW-10, contains sensitive information. 63. Furthermore, it is evident from the above referred oral

evidence that HP company laptop hard disks and mobiles were seized

from the appellant from his house at Nagpur. In the laptop, it was found

that in the friend list of his Facebook account, Neha Sharma and Pooja

Ranjan were there. Similarly, one file with the file name 'secret', in red

colour, was found in the laptop of the appellant. Furthermore, the

chatting data of the appellant with one Sejal Kapoor was found. 64. At the same time, the secret document No.BM/UDN/MSL

which is a technical description of BrahMos missile CK-310, was found in

the computer of the accused. 65. Thus, there is no element of doubt that certain important

documents which, according to the prosecution are secret and classified

documents, were found in the desktop used by the appellant when he was

at Hyderabad. 66. However, the defence of the appellant is that he was working

under Alan Abraham who gave pendrive, having project material to him
 Judgment 28 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

in official capacity, in authorized manner, like all 23 executive trainees.

He made project of CPHS and submitted the project to his superiors.

Thus, according to the defence, those documents were given to accused

by his superior Alan Abraham and none of those files were secret or

classified. 67. Let us test the merit in the case of the defence. 68. PW-3 has deposed that Alan Abraham worked with BrahMos

for approximately 7 to 8 years. He resigned from BrahMos on 31/8/2018.

Alan Abraham was imparting training to the newly recruited executive

trainees. It was his discretion to allot the projects to the trainees. 69. PW-3 further states that accused Nishant Agrawal worked

under Alan Abraham as a trainee and System Engineer. The trainees were

required to submit the project report of the projects allotted to them.

There is no prohibition or circular for preparing a project by a trainee on

his own electronic device. 70. He states that the trainees were prohibited to bring their

electronic devices within the campus of BrahMos. Judgment 29 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 71. According to PW-3, there was a Guest House for executive

trainees a few kilometers away from the BrahMos establishment at

Hyderabad. There was no prohibition for trainees to prepare projects at

the Guest House on their own electronic device. The concerned Project

Coordinator was responsible to provide data to the trainees for the

project. 72. PW-3 states that Alan Abraham was competent to provide data

to the concerned trainees for their respective projects and accused-

Nishant was authorized and permitted to have access to the computer of

Alan Abraham. 73. According to PW-3, Alan Abraham never complained that

Nishant Agrawal misused his computer or compromised its data. He had

not received any complaint from Alan Abraham that Nishant Agrawal

had no authority to possess the information/data found in his laptop. 74. He states that when the information was found in the laptop of

the accused, by that time, Alan Abraham had resigned. No efforts were

made by BrahMos to confirm from Alan Abraham that the

information/data found in the laptop of the accused was without his

authority. The project of the accused was completed when Alan Abraham

was working with BrahMos. Judgment 30 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 75. PW-3 in his cross-examination has deposed that it might be true

that the accused was undertaking a project by name CPHS. He admitted

that the accused was working with the Hydraulic Pneumatic Department,

which was part of the Leak Check and Fueling Department. He admitted

that the information, which was allegedly found in the laptop of the

accused, was related to his project. The accused Agrawal was authorized

and permitted to have access to the computer of Alan Abraham. 76. PW-4 in his cross-examination has deposed that he came to

know that the accused was working at Hyderabad in the Leak Check

Department which is a Hydraulic Pneumatic Department. Combined

Pneumatic Hydraulic System (CPHS) is part of the said department. 77. PW-6 deposed that he was allotted the same computer system,

which was allotted to Alan Abraham. Nishant and Alan were working on

the said computer system. Except for these two, the other person was not

authorized to have access to the said system. 78. Thus, it is evident that Alan Abraham, while working in

BrahMos, used to impart training to the newly instituted trainees.

Accused worked under Alan Abraham as a trainee and System Engineer.

Trainees were required to submit the project reports of the projects

allotted to them and there was no prohibition for preparing a project by
 Judgment 31 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

trainee on his personal electronic device. There was also no prohibition to

prepare projects at the guest house by the trainees on their own electronic

device. The concerned project coordinator was responsible to provide

data to the trainees for the project. And as such, Alan Abraham was

competent to provide data to the concerned trainees for their respective

projects. 79. It is further evident that the desktop which was seized from the

Hyderabad office was allotted to Alan Abraham. Nishant and Alan

Abraham were working on the said computer system. Alan Abraham

never complained that Nishant Agrawal misused his computer or

compromised its data. PW-3 never received any complaint from Alan

Abraham that Nishant Agrawal had no authority to possess information/

data found in his laptop. It is further evident that no efforts were made by

the prosecution or BrahMos to confirm from Alan Abraham that the

information/data found in the laptop of the accused was without Alan's

authority. 80. Moreover, PW-10 in his cross-examination stated that if the

employee obtained possession of this document from a senior employee,

who has authority to possess it, then such possession of the employee

would be a valid possession. Judgment 32 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 81. PW-6 in his cross-examination has deposed that when the

system was checked, five different drives were found. When the system

was inspected, personal files of Alan Abraham were found in D, E and F

Drives. 82. He further states that the system does not allow insertion of

pendrive or external hard disk. At the time of inspection, it was noticed

that previously external hard disks, pendrives and other memory devices

were used. Furthermore, there were 1170 files of Alan Abraham in the

system and no file in the name of Nishant Agrawal was found. 83. It is imperative to note that Alan Abraham was not examined

by the prosecution. In light of above discussion made on scrutiny of

evidence, an adverse inference can be drawn against the prosecution for

not examining this vital witness. 84. In the circumstances, the possibility that Alan Abraham gave

the alleged secret documents to the accused during training for the

project purpose cannot be ruled out. 85. PW-1 and PW-11 have stated that initially information

received by them was with respect to honey trap. Let us, therefore,

examine whether it was a honey trap
 Judgment 33 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 86. PW-1, in his cross examination, stated that he received the

information that Facebook accounts in the name of Neha Sharma and

Pooja Ranjan were created to honey trap the officers. Similarly, PW-11 in

his cross examination admitted that as per the FIR, the informant

received secret information that two fake Facebook accounts are created

in the name of Neha Sharma and Pooja Ranjan and the said accounts are

operated in Pakistan and they are trying to contact important persons of

defence by using honey trap and money allurement with intent to extract

secret information. 87. Thus, since beginning, it was the case of the prosecution that it

was a case of honey trap and not giving secret information to the third

party with intention, knowledge and purpose prejudicial to the safety and

interest of the State. 88. PW-11 has stated that the first connection was sent by Sejal

Kapoor to accused-Nishant. He further stated that there are four days of

chat on 18/12/2017, 19/12/2017, 20/12/2017 and 21/12/2017. He states

that from the chat of 19/12/2017, it is found that Sejal Kapoor gave

information about a job in Aviation at Hays United Kingdom and

Nishant has shown interest in the said job. He admitted that Sejal Kapoor

asked to send the CV of Nishant on her e-mail ID. He has investigated
 Judgment 34 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

with regard to e-mail address of Sejal Kapoor but, CERT-in has not

replied about the e-mail address. He does not know that Yandex.com is a

Russian e-mail service provider. He states that Sejal Kapoor asked

Nishant to download the X-trust link in the Windows system on

20/12/2017. From the chat, it appears that Sejal Kapoor is inviting the

accused for an interview with the Manager of the company and for that

X-trust link is sent by Sejal Kapoor. 89. According to PW-11, it appeared that Nishant Agrawal was

trying to face an interview. He has sent the queries with regard to X-trust

link and Q-whisper link to CERT-in. He personally has not investigated

about X-trust link and Q-whisper link. He does not know that X-trust

link and Q-whisper link are the communication apps in other countries.

After going through Exh.170, it is found that Nishant has not sent any

departmental documents on the LinkedIn App. He further states that

Nishant has not communicated with Sejal Kapoor, Pooja Ranjan and

Neha Sharma through phone or any other electronic media except chat.

He states that there is no restriction to use any social media platform. He

further states that none of the Circulars from BrahMos Aerospace

prohibits use of LinkedIn App. He states that none of the circular from

BrahMos Aerospace prohibits any employee to apply in other company

for a job during his employment. Judgment 35 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 90. Thus, the prosecution has failed to establish wrongful

communication or any information as stated in Section 5(1)(a) ,(b),(c)

and 5(3) of the Act of 1923. It has not been established that the accused

willfully communicated or used the same for the benefit of any foreign

power or any other manner prejudicial to the safety of the State or

willfully failed to comply with any direction issued by any lawful

Authority with regard to return or for disposal of such material. 91. At this juncture, it is necessary to find out evidence, if any,

produced by the prosecution to establish that the accused unauthorizedly

accessed the computer data and copied the same in his personal device. 92. For this purpose, evidence of PW-8 is important. PW-8 in his

cross-examination has admitted that after giving 'run-type-regedit'

command, they found that several pen-drives and external hard disks

were used in the said desktop in the past and the list of the past users of

the pen-drives and external hard disks was generated. He did not find

any entry in the list of the usage of pen-drives or external hard disks by

accused Nishant Agrawal in the past. 93. Thus, it is evident that after giving the command 'run-type-

regedit' it was found that several pendrives and external hard disks were

used in the said desktop in the past. After giving the command, the list of
 Judgment 36 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

past users of the pendrives and external hard disks was generated. No

entry was found in the said list of the usage of pendrives or external hard

disks by the accused in the past. 94. PW-6, however, refused to answer the question whether upon

giving the command 'run-type-regedit' complete user history was

generated. He stated that he does not remember that when the command

run-type-regedit was given, the system generated the list of pendrives,

external hard-disks, and memory devices used previously in the system

along with date, time and users' name. 95. Therefore, we are of the opinion that there is a substance in the

version of the defence that accused was having these files and documents

as they are relating to his project and not copied in his personal device. 96. Moving further, as regards the classification of the alleged

documents as 'secret' or 'classified documents', it is the case of the defence

that none of these files were secret, restricted or classified. 97. PW-10 in his cross-examination has stated that he has not

produced any document to show that the classified information is to be

retained in the official device at the office. There was no prohibition for

accused-Nishant to receive the classified information. Judgment 37 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 98. PW-4 has deposed that as he had received a single hard copy of

the document in question from the Hyderabad office on which it was

written as "secret", therefore, he treated it as a classified secret document.

He did not inquire from the Hyderabad office the reason for tagging this

document as a secret document. 99. PW-4 deposed that he was not given the entire document by

the investigating officer when the notice was issued to him. The

investigating officer has only provided the name of the document. He was

never informed from which drive of Nishant's laptop the documents were

taken. He was also not informed that in which folder of the drive this

document was found. He was also not informed which other material was

found in the laptop. He did not have any personal knowledge whether

the said secret information was derived from the laptop of the Nishant. 100. PW-4 further states that he was never given the file which is

alleged to have been found in the laptop of the accused for giving reply to

the query raised by the Investigating Officer. He was only provided with

the name of the document. He cannot say whether the said document

was actually found in the laptop of the accused or not. Judgment 38 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 101. Moving further, it is the case of the defence that most of the

information about the BrahMos is in public domain and therefore it

cannot be said that any information was leaked by the accused relating to

BrahMos missile. 102. The evidence of PW-4 and PW-10 is relevant for this purpose. 103. PW-4 in his cross-examination states that much of the

information of the missile is in the public domain and is known to the

general public. These missiles are displayed since 10 years. The part of the

information which was alleged to be found in the laptop of the accused

was already in the public domain. The information alleged to be found in

the laptop was not a complete classified information. The technical

information was classified information and was not available in the public

domain. 104. PW-10 in his cross-examination states that there is a website of

BrahMos as brahmos.com. On the website details of working of BrahMos

missile and the manner of production of BrahMos missile are available.

Most of the information about the components of BrahMos missile is

available in the public domain. Judgment 39 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 105. Thus, the above referred evidence of PW-4 and PW-10 and

other evidence brought on record by the prosecution takes us to only

conclusion that the alleged malware which were downloaded by the

appellant were with an intention to apply to secure a job in the UK and

not to transfer any information or data. Thus, no offence, as alleged,

attracts against the appellant except the offence under Section 5(1)(d) of

the Act of 1923 i.e., failure to take reasonable care or for the conduct of

the appellant of downloading the alleged malware at the instruction of

Sejal Kapoor. 106. We have considered the language of Section 66F of the Act of

2000 and Section 3(1) and 5(1)(a) , (b), (c) of the Act of 1923 and

observed that to attract these provisions, mens rea is a paramount

requirement. 107. It is important to note that the accused was at Hyderabad from

01/07/2013 to 24/08/2014. And the allegation that the accused copied

the secret and classified information from his official desktop to his

personal device was with respect to the period from 01/07/2013 to

30/12/2013. Judgment 40 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 108. PW-11, in his cross examination, has admitted that during the

investigation it was found that alleged secret files were pertaining to the

period when the accused was working in BrahMos, Hyderabad, from

01/07/2013 to 30/12/2013. He further admitted that name of Nishant

was not found in the list of inserted devices. He further admits that in

Exh.95 (Annexure-V) it is mentioned that the files are suspected to be

leaked and not absolutely leaked. 109. PW-11 stated that while working at Nagpur in BrahMos

Aerospace the accused might be having several secret files in his official

system. 110. Admittedly, the chat of the accused with Sejal Kapoor on

LinkedIn, produced on record by the prosecution shows that it was of

December 2017, while the accused was posted at Nagpur. The accused

was posted at Nagpur since August 2014. 111. Thus, the first chat with Sejal Kapoor is dated 18/12/2017, i.e.,

after more than 3 years of alleged access by the appellant to the official

computer. It is the case of the prosecution that at the instruction of Sejal

Kapoor the accused downloaded three malware which were sufficient to

give access to third party to the documents and material in the laptop of

the accused. Judgment 41 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 112. Even if this assertion of the prosecution is accepted, the

prosecution has failed to establish that there was any intention of the

accused during the period 01/07/2013 to 30/12/2013 to copy the

information for the purpose to leak the same to Sejal Kapoor

subsequently in the year 2018. To attract section 66F(1)(A)(ii) of the Act

of 2000, it has to be established that when the attempt to penetrate or

access a computer resource without authorization or exceeding

authorized access was made, it was done, at that relevant time, with intent

to threaten the unity, integrity, security, or sovereignty of India or to

strike terror in the people or any section of the people. The prosecution

failed to establish such intention of the appellant when such data was

allegedly copied by the appellant during the period 01/07/2013 to

30/12/2013. 113. Thus, there is nothing brought on record by the prosecution to

show that the accused intentionally, to threaten the unity, integrity,

security or safety of India, or to strike terror in the people or any section

of the society, or knowingly or intentionally penetrated or accessed a

computer resource to cause or likely to cause injury to the interests of

safety and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations

with foreign states, public order, decency or morality, or in intention to

contempt of court, defamation or incitement to offence or to the
 Judgment 42 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

advantage of any foreign nation, group of individuals or otherwise,

committed a cyber terrorism. 114. While holding the appellant guilty under section 66F of the Act

of 2000, there is not a single observation or finding recorded by the

learned trial court that there was such intention of the appellant during

the period 01/07/2013 to 30/12/2013, during which period the said

information and data was allegedly copied by the appellant. 115. In the circumstances, it is difficult to say that the prosecution

has established beyond reasonable doubt that the accused is guilty of the

offence punishable under Sections 66F of the Act of 2000 and Section

5(1)(a)(b)(c) and 5(3) of the Act of 1923. 116. As far as section 3(1) of Act of 1923 is concerned, as observed,

under Section 3(2) of the said Act, there is a presumption that if a person,

without lawful authority, makes, obtains, collects, records, publishes or

communicates any secret or prohibited defence-related material, it is

deemed to have been done with a purpose prejudicial to the safety or

interests of the State. However, for this presumption to arise, the

prosecution must first establish the circumstances of the case, the conduct

of the accused, or his known character; once these are proved, it is not
 Judgment 43 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

necessary to show that the accused committed any specific act

demonstrating a prejudicial purpose. 117. In the circumstances, the conduct of the appellant or his known

character is to be seen from the oral evidence of the witnesses. 118. Much emphasis is placed on Undertaking of Secrecy (Exh.26)

submitted by the accused. The undertaking is to the effect to keep all

information known to him and data related to the business of the

company in his possession as strictly confidential. There is nothing

brought on record by the prosecution to show that the appellant

knowingly or intentionally transferred any information known to him

and data related to the business of the company which was in his

possession as strictly confidential. 119. PW-4 in his cross-examination has deposed that he did not

receive any negative report as regard working of the accused from

Hyderabad office when the accused joined at Nagpur. Even there was no

report regarding the accused's suspicious conduct. He has not also

received any report as regards the accused's misconduct while working at

Hyderabad. He never received any negative inputs as regards accused

from I.B. or other security agencies. Judgment 44 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 120. PW-4 in his cross-examination has further deposed that during

his working at Nagpur he had no occasion to summon accused or issue

memo for violation of any of the service conditions. He never found

accused violating Govt. circular, office order, circular and guidelines

issued by him. The Annual Confidential Reports of Nishant Agrawal,

written by the reporting officer Shri Krantikumar, were always 'very good'

and 'outstanding'. Due to his performance he was promoted as Sr.System

Engineer. He recommended the name of the accused for the Young

Scientist Award in the year 2017. He was granted with the said award in

the year 2018. 121. PW-3 in his cross-examination has deposed that there was no

complaint as regards working and conduct of Nishant while working as a

trainee and system engineer at Hyderabad. He admitted that none of his

subordinates reported any suspicious conduct of Nishant Agrawal. He

further deposed that during the entire service tenure of the accused with

BrahMos, he did not get any input from any of the security agencies as

regards the suspicious working and conduct of the accused. 122. PW-10 in his cross-examination has admitted that being HR

Head he was receiving the Annual Confidential Reports of all the officers

including Nishant. He admitted that he never received any adverse
 Judgment 45 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

confidential report against Nishant. He admitted that many Russian

officers were also working with BrahMos. He admitted that none of the

conduct of the Nishant Agrawal was against the national interest and

there was no such intention on his part. 123. PW-4 in his cross-examination has deposed that the accused

was working in the assembly unit at Nagpur and that he was also

responsible for delivery of missiles to the armed forces. While working at

Nagpur for a period of 4 years, the accused was personally involved in

delivery of around 70 to 80 missiles to the armed forces. The accused was

having all the information about the customers and delivery locations of

the missiles. He admitted that this information was equally secret and the

computer which was provided to him at the Nagpur office was having

more secret and classified information in it than the present information.

He never had any occasion to come across with the incident where the

accused shared, tampered or misused the information available in the

office computer at Nagpur. 124. PW-11, in his cross-examination, deposed that he has not

investigated as to what work was allotted to the accused and what work

he has done during his training period. He has not made a detailed

investigation as to what work was allotted to the accused. He never felt it
 Judgment 46 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

necessary to investigate as to what work was allotted to the accused when

he was working as System Engineer and Senior System Engineer. He does

not know that when Nishant Agrawal was working as System Engineer at

that time he has handed over 70 missiles to the Armed Forces. He stated

that while working as System Engineer and Senior System Engineer,

Nishant may be having much more secret information. He does not

know that in the year 2015-16, Nishant was working on a top secret

project of Air Version BrahMos. He further deposed that he has not

investigated about the character and conduct of accused-Nishant during

interrogation with Senior Officers of BrahMos Aerospace. He admitted

that no secret file was found in the official system of BrahMos Aerospace,

Nagpur in the section where the accused was working. He stated that

during the investigation, it was found that the alleged secret files were

pertaining to the period when the accused was working at BrahMos,

Hyderabad from 1st July, 2013 to 30th December, 2013. 125. PW-6 in his cross-examination admitted that Nishant Agrawal

joined BrahMos as Executive Trainee on 1/7/2013 and he was transferred

from Hyderabad on 24/8/2014. No internal enquiry was done to find out

who violated the guidelines, circulars etc. of the BrahMos for using the

external devices with the computer. He had also not recommended for

any such enquiry. Judgment 47 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt 126. Thus, it is evident that no file was found in the laptop of the

appellant of the period after December 2013. Whereas, the appellant was

a part of the core team dealing with handing over 70 to 80 missiles

during 2014 and 2018 to the armed forces. He was part of the top-secret

projects of BrahMos. He was having these files, documents in his official

system. He could have copied those documents on his personal device

had there been any such intention to transfer the secret and confidential

information to the third party. Even from the evidence of PW-11, it is

clear that no chats were found with Pooja Ranjan and Neha Sharma. The

chats which were found with Sejal Kapoor were in respect of job in the

UK. It has also come on record that no telephonic conversation took

place between them at any time. 127. Having observed so, it can be said that the prosecution has

failed to prove the circumstances or the conduct of the accused or his

known character to show purpose prejudicial to the safety or interest of

the State, to presume under Section 3(2) of the Act of 1923. 128. The conduct of the accused, or his known character, as has

come on record, show that the Annual Confidential Report of the

appellant was always 'very good' and 'outstanding'. Due to his

performance, he was promoted as Senior System Engineer and awarded
 Judgment 48 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt

with Young Scientist Award. And none of the conduct of the appellant

was ever found against the national interest or that he had any such

intention since the joining of BrahMos Aerospace Private Limited. Thus,

the conviction under Section 3(1) of Act of 1923 is based on perverse

findings. Hence, the same is not sustainable in the eyes of law. 129. In the above referred facts and circumstances, and the findings

recorded on scrutinizing and examining oral as well as documentary

evidence available on record, we have no hesitation to hold that except

the offence punishable under Section 5(1)(d) of the Act of 1923, no other

offence, under which the appellant was tried, is proved by the

prosecution. 130. In that view of the matter, we pass the following order : passed by Additional Sessions Judge-1, Nagpur in Sessions

 Case No.726 of 2021 is hereby quashed and set aside. iii) The conviction and sentence, imposed upon the appellant,

 for the offences punishable under Section 66F of the

 Information Technology Act, 2000, Section 3(1)(c) of the

 Official Secrets Act, 1923 and Section 5(1)(a) , (b) and (c)

 and 5(3) of the Official Secrets Act, 1923 is set aside. Judgment 49 CRI.APPEAL303.24.odt iv) The conviction and sentence, imposed upon the appellant,

 for the offence punishable under Section 5(1)(d) of the

 Official Secrets Act, 1923, is maintained. v) Set off be given to the appellant under Section 428 of the

 Code of Criminal Procedure. The Criminal Appeal is disposed of accordingly. Pending

 application (s), if any, shall stand disposed of.