Adidas recently came under a cyberattack where bad actors gained access to “certain” customer data, according to a post on the company website. The sports apparel brand said that the “unauthorised external party” accessed the data through a third-party customer service provider.

Passwords, credit card information, and other payment-related details were not part of the data that the attackers accessed. The company stated, “It mainly consists of contact information relating to consumers who had contacted our customer service help desk in the past.”

In an email seen by MediaNama, the company informed its customers that upon becoming aware of the breach, it began investigating and containing the incident. “This includes further enhancing security measures,” the sportswear brand said.

The company also told customers that there are no immediate steps they need to take. However, it advised them to remain vigilant and watch for any suspicious messages.

However, the company has not revealed the exact number of affected customers or shared region-specific information.

MediaNama has reached out to Adidas with the following questions:

To these questions, Adidas responded, “The statement from Friday is still valid. There is no further update for now.”

This incident comes amid a rise in cyberattacks targeting customer-facing companies, where bad actors are breaching databases to access sensitive customer information.

Most recently, in October 2024, Star Health Insurance confirmed reports of a data breach. A group of hackers put up data of about 31 million users for sale on Telegram. The group claimed they possessed 7.24 terabytes of data related to Star Health customers.

In another incident from November 2020, bad actors accessed the personal information of over 20 million BigBasket customers in an online attack . This included names, email IDs, password hashes, PINs, and contact information. The attackers also sold the data on the dark web for around Rs 29.5 lakh. However, the company claimed it did not store financial data and was confident that the compromised data did not include such details.

Similarly, in August 2020, RailYatri, a ticketing and travel website, suffered a data breach in which the personal details of around 700,000 users were compromised. For several days, the platform’s production server was left vulnerable to anyone who had its IP address.

Protecting customer data is extremely crucial, as a breach of data amounts to a breach of privacy. Companies, with the help of the government and cybersecurity firms, must develop robust plans and firewalls to prevent such incidents in the future.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event