RAJENDRA BABU, J. : Similarly, he got the nomination paper of Shri Yogender son
of Shri Sher Singh rejected illegally and improperly	 for
non-existent and fabricated reasons as Shri Yogender was a
strong	contender for the Bahujan Samaj Party ticket and was
sure to get the ticket and was most suitable, formidable and
popular	 candidate amongst the other	 contenders of	 the
Bahujan Samaj Party. In paragraphs 5 to 11 of the petition, the petitioner
repeatedly alleged that the Returning Officer at the behest
of the returned candidate improperly rejected the nomination
papers	of Suresh Kumar and Yogender. On the basis of these
allegations the election of the returned candidate	 was
challenged and according to the election petitioner the same
was liable to be set aside as the nomination papers of	 the
aforesaid two	persons had been improperly rejected.	 The
preliminary objection	raised	was to the effect that	 the
allegations of collusion between the returned candidate and
the Returning Officer in rejecting the nomination papers of
Suresh	Kumar and Yogender would amount to an allegation of
corrupt	 practice as defined in Section 123(2) to (7) of the
1951 Act and since these allegations are not supported by an
affidavit the election petition is not maintainable and in
any case paragraphs 4 to 11 of the petition are liable to be
struck off. The Election Petitioners took the stand that the main
thrust	of the	 petition is on improper rejection of	 the
nomination papers of Suresh Kumar, Yogender and Mala Ram and
on improper acceptance of the nomination papers of	 the
returned candidate; that the election petitioners are	 not
challenging the election of the returned candidate on	 the
ground	of his committing any corrupt practice and it	 was
further	 pleaded that the averments made in paragraphs 4 to
11 of	the petition do not satisfy the requirements of
corrupt practice as defined in Section 123(2) and (7) of the
1951 Act and, therefore, there was no need to support	 the
same with an affidavit.	 The learned Judge in the High Court
took the view that it was not necessary for him to examine
whether	 the allegations made in paragraphs 4 to 11 of	 the
petition constitute any corrupt practice within the meaning
of Section 123(2) to (7) of the 1951 Act since election of
the returned candidate is not being challenged on the ground
of his having committed any corrupt practice;	that even if
there was a collusion between the returned candidate and the
Returning Officer the same would neither be tried nor record
any finding thereon which can in any way prejudice any party
or person. In the view of the High Court, the substance of
the allegations made in paragraphs 4 to 11 was to the effect
that the nomination papers of Suresh Kumar and Yogender were
improperly rejected and collusion was alleged only as a
motive	for the Returning Officer to reject the nomination
papers	but what was really to be determined was whether the
nomination paper of	Suresh	 Kumar	and Yogender	were
improperly rejected or not. If the election petitioner is
successful in	proving that the nomination papers of these
two persons were improperly rejected then no other question
would arise and the petition would succeed. On the other
hand, if he is unable to prove that the nomination papers
were improperly rejected the petitioner would fail.	 In
either event the court would not be recording any finding in
regard to the commission of any corrupt practice nor has the
petitioner charged the returned candidate	 with	 the
commission of	any such practice. On this	 basis,	 the
preliminary objections were overruled. Shri Rajinder Sacher, the learned senior Advocate
appearing for the returned candidate, submitted that when,
in fact, the allegations contained in petition amount to
corrupt practice affidavit in support thereof was absolutely
necessary and	in the	 absence of an affidavit these
allegations cannot stand and the same need to be struck off
and thus if those allegations were struck off nothing in the
petition remained to be considered and the entire petition
has to be rejected. On a proper construction of the averments made in the
course	of the election petition, the High Court understood
the allegations only	to mean that the election of	 the
returned candidate was being challenged on the ground of
improper rejection of the nomination papers of Mala	Ram,
Suresh	Kumar and Yogender or improper acceptance of	 the
nomination papers of the returned candidate and all other
allegations were mere embellishments to the same, we do not
think that the view	taken by the	High Court in	 the
circumstances of the case was not justified or unreasonable.
When the order made	clear that no corrupt	practice as
arising under Section 123(2) to (7) of the 1951 Act would be
put in issue or any trial held thereon all apprehensions of
the returned candidates stood allayed.	Therefore, the order
made by the High Court on the preliminary objection raised
by the	 returned candidate is correct and has	 got to be
upheld. According	 to the calendar of events nomination papers
could be filed from 27.3.1996 to 3.4.1996. The case of the
election petitioner (in E.P.	6/96) was that Suresh Kumar
and Yogender personally presented their nomination papers
before	the Returning Officer on 7.4.96 at 2.13 p.m.	 and
2.15 p.m. respectively and that they made and subscribed to
the oath before him at the time of presenting the nomination
papers.	 It is also alleged that the nomination papers of
the returned candidate have been improperly accepted by the
Returning Officer though he did not make and subscribe to
oath validly at the time of filing his nomination papers or
at any	 other time before scrutiny. Thus, the crux of	 the
matter	is improper acceptance of the nomination papers of
the returned candidate and whether the same has materially
affected the result of the election in so far as it concerns
the returned candidate and	improper rejection of	 the
nomination papers of	Suresh Kumar and Yogender. In	 the
written statement, the allegation that the nomination papers
of Suresh Kumar and Yogender were improperly rejected by the
Returning Officer is denied.	The returned candidate	also
denied	that he prevailed upon the Returning	 Officer to
reject	nomination papers of Suresh Kumar and Yogender	 and
that there was any collusion between him and the Returning
Officer. He also pleaded that nomination papers of	 the
returned candidate were properly accepted and he had taken
oath before the Returning Officer at the time of presenting
the papers. Two issues have been raised as regards the preliminary
objection which had been considered by us earlier. Rest of
the issues relevant for the present purpose are as follows : 3. Whether the nomination papers S/Shri Suresh Kumar
and Yogender were improperly rejected by the Returning
Officer? If so, its effect? 4. Whether the	 nomination paper of the returned
candidate was wrongly accepted by the Returning Officer? If
so, its effect? 5. Relief. So far as Issue No. 4 is concerned, it has	been
answered in favour of the returned candidate and that	part
of the order is not impugned by any of the respondents.	 The
only issue that remains is Issue No. 3. On Issue No. 3, oral evidence was adduced and several
documents were	 marked. The Returning Officer has	been
examined as R.W.4. He has narrated the sequence of events
that took place on the eve of the election held to No.	 89,
Ateli Legislative Assembly in April, 1996. April3, 1996 was
the last date for the candidates to file their nomination
papers	and there was a lot of rush for filing those papers
on that day.	 50-60 nomination paper were filed on	that
date.	26 nomination papers had been filed upto 2.4.96	 and
62 nomination	 papers	 were filed on the	last date.
Nomination paper at S.No.27 was the first one to be filed on
3.4.96.	 The Register of nomination papers does not record
the time at which the nomination papers were filed but	 the
same can be ascertained from the nomination paper itself.
The time for filing the nomination papers commenced at 11
a.m. and nomination papers at S.Nos.	27 to 46 were filed
on 3.4.96 from 11 a.m.	to 1 p.m. On account of heavy rush,
the Returning	Officer made arrangements in such a manner
that the Assistants would also sit	in his	 room.	 The
nomination papers would be submitted to the Assistants	 for
registration in the Register. After filling up this part of
the nomination paper or the oath form required to be filled
by his office, nomination papers were presented to him.	 The
Assistants were also verifying the details mentioned in the
nomination papers and the oath forms.	When he received the
nomination papers, he called upon the candidates one by one
to take the oath and in the meantime he was signing their
nomination papers and also the oath forms. Error, if	any,
found in any nomination paper/oath form was brought to	 his
notice	and the errors were corrected by him. He used a pen
with green ink on the date when he received the nomination
paper and the date of the scrutiny. In respect of some of
the oath forms received by him, he found that the signatures
of the candidates were already there. After giving them the
prescribed oath he did not ask such candidates to sign their
oath forms again. In some	 cases	he found that	 the
candidates were not present when their nomination papers
were put up to him. He asked his Assistants to call out the
names of the candidates so that they could come and take the
oath.	After the names of the candidates were	 called	 out
some of them	turned	up and took the	 oath while others
remained absent and in such cases he noted on the nomination
papers	that the oath had not been taken. Inasmuch as	 the
forms of the absentee candidates had already been filled up
by his Assistants, he also recorded the time and date in his
order stating that oath had not been taken on that date and
time. The time and date as was recorded by him in his order
was the same which had earlier been filled by his Assistants
in those forms. In respect of Exh.RW4/1 which is the	oath
form of Yogender, he had noted that the oath had not	been
taken at the	time and date already	 filled	 in by	 his
Assistants and	 official seals had been affixed at three
places	on the form. At two places marked at A and B on the
form he had put his signatures which were	subsequently
scored off by him. Exhibit RW4/2 is the nomination paper of
Yogender and that form bears his signatures as the Returning
Officer. On the back side of the form he passed an order on
4.4.96.	 Some words in the order had been scored off by him
at four places. Exhibit PW3/1 is the nomination paper of
Suresh	Kumar and the	 back side of that form bears	 his
signatures as	Returning Officer and it also contained an
order rejecting the nomination paper which was passed by him
on 4.4.96. The scorings in his order at two	places	were
done by him. Exhibit PW3/2 and RW1/1 were put up to him in
the normal course after the Assistants in his room	 had
filled	up the portions therein which were required to be
filled up by his office. Suresh Kumar and Yogender were not
present	 when their names were called though in the meantime
he had already appended his signatures on their oath forms.
When the Assistants called out their names with the help of
the Peon they did not come and did not take oath before him
and on the reverse side of Exh.PW3/1 he had made an order on
4.4.96	rejecting the	nomination paper of Suresh Kumar
because	 he had not taken the oath before him at the time of
presenting the nomination paper. First he wrote the words
rejected Oath not made and put his signatures along with
the date. Thereafter, it appears, he realised that he
should	pass a speaking order while rejecting the nomination
paper.	 Then he scored off his signatures and the date	 and
wrote a complete order.	 Similarly, he made similar order by
scoring	 off similar phrases in the case of Yogender also.
Exhibit	 PW1/4 is an oath form of Mala Ram and that form had
already	 been signed by Mala Ram. When the oath form	 was
taken up by him Mala Ram was not present and the Assistants
with the help of Peon called out his name but Mala Ram	 did
not appear. He passed an order on the oath form.	 On
4.4.96,	 Mala Ram was present in his office at the time of
scrutiny. He	told him that he did not take the oath on
3.4.96	but he explained to him that that was not the stage
to take the oath and then he rejected his nomination papers
which Exh.PW1/2 and passed the order on the reverse	side
thereof. Again he made some correction therein and	 the
cuttings thereon are in his hand- writing. Apart from	 the
nomination papers of Suresh Kumar, Yogender and Mala	 Ram
there were some other nomination papers as well which	were
rejected by him. Exh.RW 4/3 is the nomination paper of Ram
Niwas son of	Mahadev. This form also contains similar
writings and corrections. He again rejected the nomination
paper of Chander Parkash, Exh. PW5/1 and some of	 the
corrections were made in the order and all the	 corrections
were made by him in the order but those were in the ordinary
routine. No one raised any objection at the time of
scrutiny regarding rejection of nomination papers of Suresh
Kumar and Yogender. In the cross-examination, he was unable to state as to
which of the candidates did or did not sign in his presence
and similarly	he was unable to state whether the returned
candidate signed the oath form Exhibit RW1/4 in his presence
after taking the oath and he denied the suggestion that he
did not take the oath before him. 15 candidates had filed
their nomination papers on 3.4.96 from 11 a.m. to 1	p.m.
In answer to the questions that when he found Suresh Kumar
and Yogender were not present to take the oath he did	 not
issue a memo to them particularly when their residences were
13 to 11 kms.	away from his office and there was time	 for
them to take the oath till the midnight of 3.4.96, he stated
that it was essentially for the candidates themselves to
ensure	to take the oath so as to become eligible	 for
election. Memo was required to be handed over in terms of
the Hand Book	 to the candidates who did not	 take oath.
Since Suresh Kumar and Yogender were not present, memo could
not be	 handed over to them. The nomination papers of	 Ram
Niwas son of Mahadev was rejected at the time of scrutiny.
He did	 not produce his proof of age and since	 nobody	 was
present	 on his behalf, no memo could be handed over to him.
He admitted that Mala Ram had made an application to him for
issue of certified copies of some documents and he allowed
the same and the documents required by him were supplied to
Mala Ram. The Election Commission had made	 an enquiry
whether any memo in writing was issued and Exhibit RW4/7 was
the report of the Peon to the effect that the name of	Mala
Ram was called out to enable him to take the oath and	that
report	was put up to him in a routine way and he ordered to
be placed the same on record. Exhibit RW 4/8 is a certified
copy of the nomination paper filed by Mala Ram which	 was
supplied to him. It was supplied to him on 4.4.96 at	4.17
p.m. There is no official stamp under his orders. Exhibit
RW4/9 is an office copy of the certified copy of the	oath
form which was supplied to the petitioner. There is no
official seal	under his orders whereas the originals of
these documents contained official seal under his orders.
He explained that the absence of the seals in the photo copy
was on	 account of the fact the certified copies had	been
issued	on the same day at 4.17 PM and the official seals
were affixed on the originals subsequently. Official seals
had been affixed at several specified places even in respect
of those orders which he had passed. In Exhibit PW ¼,	 the
oath form of Mala Ram his order does not contain the	date
below his signatures.	The same is with respect to the oath
forms of Suresh Kumar and Yogender and on the suggestion
that Suresh Kumar, Yogender	and Mala Ram took oath on
3.4.96,	 he stated that the orders were passed on 3.4.96 on
the oath form	 and he denied the suggestion that he	 had
passed the order on 4.4.96. His evidence was subjected to severe scrutiny by	 the
High Court. The High Court	 took	the view that	 the
nomination papers of	Suresh	Kumar was entered in	 the
Register meant for the purpose at S.No.64 and the Returning
Officer	 certified the	 same as presented to	him by	 the
candidate personally	 on 3.4.96 at	 2.13	 p.m.	 and
consequently the word proposer had been scored off. The
Returning Officer appeared in the witness box as RW-4	 and
admitted his signatures at portion	marked	A-1 on	 the
nomination paper. From this certificate, the learned Judge
concluded that Suresh Kumar was present in the office of the
Returning Officer on 3.4.96 at 2.13 p.m. when he filed his
nomination paper. Suresh Kumar appeared as PW-3.	 He
disbelieved the Returning Officer that he called the names
of Suresh Kumar, Yogender or Mala Ram and all the nomination
papers	and oath forms were stamped by the Assistants in the
room of the Returning Officer and Returning Officer signed
the oath forms of Suresh Kumar and Yogender certifying that
they had taken oath before him. The High Court noted	that
it was	 curious that the Returning Officer who was signing
the oath form only after the candidates had taken the	oath
and the statement of the Returning Officer that he signed
their oath forms in routine though the candidates were	 not
present	 was palpably wrong and could not be accepted.	 He
had stated that while the candidates were being called upon
to take the oath, he was simultaneously signing their
nomination paper and	oath forms and even if we take	 the
statement of the Returning Officer at its face value, it
could not be believed that Suresh Kumar and Yogender	were
not present when their nomination papers and oath forms were
taken up for examination personally on 3.4.96 at 2.13	p.m.
and 2.15 p.m.	 respectively.	 The Returning	Officer	 has
signed	their nomination papers and certified that they were
presented by the candidates personally at 2.13 p.m.	 and
2.15 p.m. If that is so, the fact that the candidate	 who
was personally	 present at a specified point of time being
absent	at that very time when he was to take the oath could
not be believed. On that basis, the High Court castigated
the Returning Officer very severely and observed as follows
: After taking oath Mala Ram claimed	that the Returning
Officer	 asked the clerk sitting by his side to complete the
receipt	 portion by putting the time, date and place and the
official seal	of the	 Returning Officer thereon.	 The
suggestion put	 forth	by Mala Ram in the course of	 his
evidence is that the Returning Officer had duly signed	 the
nomination papers and handed over the same to the clerk but
it is clear from the oath form that it did not contain	 the
signature of the Returning Officer at all. In so far as the
question of filling up of the form is concerned, all	that
could be said is that only date is filled up as 3-4-96 in
both the portions . Mala Ram also stated that in the course
of his evidence that serial numbers of his nomination papers
at the time of presentation of his nomination papers on the
reverse and both of the forms was not given in his presence.
The procedure adopted by the Returning Officer is spelt out
in the course of his evidence to which we have adverted to
earlier. On the presentation of the nomination papers a
serial	number was entered in the register. In the case of
Mala Ram the two sets of nomination papers having serial
numbers	 86 and 87 with the time duly corrected as 2.48 p.m.
are entered.	Thus it appears to us that the nomination
papers	were handed over to the Returning Officer at	2.48
p.m. when the serial numbers were endorsed on reverse of
the both nomination papers. This conclusion is buttressed
by the fact that previous nomination paper at serial number
85 bears the time 2.46 p.m. whereas later nomination papers
of serial number 88 bears the time 2.55 p.m. which was the
last nomination papers submitted before the Returning
Officer. The evidence of Mala Ram in this regard cannot be
stated	to be reliable inasmuch as the Returning Officer had
not filled the time, date and place as contended by him and
thus the time stated by him that he presented the nomination
papers	and took oath at 1.45 p.m. cannot be	accepted at
all. Mala Ram also stated in the course of his examination
that the clerk had filled up the date, place and time in the
oath form and the receipt portion. However, none of these
papers bear the signature of the Returning Officer. Thus it
cannot	be said that oath had been taken by Mala Ram in	 the
presence of the Returning Officer and the Returning Officer
had put his signature to that effect.	 Thus we think	that
all that he did was that he handed over the documents in the
office	and the office filled up the same	before	they
corrected the	time and handed over it to the Returning
Officer who put up his seal on the nomination paper in token
of receiving the same but on the oath form he did not	 put
his signature and noted that the oath had not been taken at
2.48 p.m. on 3-4-96. There is no cross-examination of the Returning Officer
with regard to Deputy Commissioner having spoken to him on
complaint of Mala Ram. The evidence of Mala Ram may be compared with what he
had complained	 to the Election Commission (Annexure P-3).
It is stated that the said Mala Ram took his oath by reading
oath form and signed the form and thereafter delivered	 the
same to the staff.	An affidavit of the advocate	 who
assisted and appeared for Mala Ram at the time of filling
and submitting nomination and oath form was also stated to
have been attached to the application, but this affidavit is
not forth coming in	the evidence in the case. In	 the
complaint made by him the time when he filed the form or the
time at which	 he took oath are not set out	and he	 had
obtained the copies of the documents in question on 4-4-96
whereas	 the complaint	 made by him is on 5-4-96. He	 has
alleged	 that he made a complaint to the Deputy Commissioner
about the manner in which the Returning Officer has rejected
his nomination paper but there is no reference to the	same
in the	 course of his complaint. These circumstances	will
clearly	 indicate that the said Mala Ram has been making an
attempt for improving the case from stage to stage. Now we shall deal with the case of Suresh Kumar	 and
Yogender. Yogender has not stepped into the witness box at
all. Thus the presentation of his form or the person	 who
presented it and whether he had taken the oath or not is not
established. In the	case of Suresh Kumar the Returning
Officer	 had put his signature to the oath form. Therefore,
it was	 contended by	the petitioner	that the Returning
Officer	 had put his signature after the oath	 are to be
administered but no receipt was given to them because it was
not ready. It could be seen from the oath form that	 not
only the main part of the form but the receipt part of	 the
form also was	 filled	 up by the clerical staff and	 the
Returning Officer had signed both parts of the oath	form
which had been later on scored off. It is clear that	 the
version	 put forth by the Returning Officer is probable that
when 7	 to 8 nomination papers had been placed	 before	 him
together, he went on signing each one of those forms	 and
later on when he realised that the concerned candidate	 was
not present in his office to take oath he scored off	 the
same.	If really the Returning Officer wanted to reject the
candidates nomination form on the basis that oath had	not
been taken, he need have signed the receipt part at all only
to score it off later. The evidence discloses that	 the
Returning Officer had in a routine manner put his initial on
the oath forms when he checked the identity of the persons
who were present and found that the concerned persons	were
not present he scored off his initials. He looked that the
clerical staff had filled up the main part of the oath form
and the receipt part.	 If really the oath had been taken,
there is no reason as to why the receipt on which he has put
signature could not have been given to the candidate
immediately. It is also in evidence of some of the other
candidates whose nominations had been rejected were able to
obtain	the receipt the following day when he went to	 the
office	of the	 Returning Officer at about 10.30 a.m.	 on
4-4-96	as on	3-4-96 at 3.45 p.m. when the went to	 the
office	of the	 Returning Officer he	was told that	 the
Returning Officer was not available whereas evidence of Mala
Ram is clear that even at 5.00 p.m. the Returning Officer
was available	in the	 office. It is not as	 though	 the
Returning Officer has any animus against Mala Ram, Suresh
Kumar or Yogender so as to act mala fide or that there is
any strong bias in the favour of the returned candidate to
favour	him. In the absence of any such material it is
difficult to state that the version	 put forth by	 the
Returning Officer is not worthy of credence. The criticism
made by the High Court in appraising the evidence that he
tampered with the record by scoring off his signature	only
with a view to reject the nomination papers of Yogender and
Suresh Kumar or in coming to the conclusion that no credence
can be placed on the testimony of Returning Officer and that
he tampered with the	 record is not borne out from	 the
record.	 Therefore, we are of the view that the High Court
was not justified in making these scathing remarks. On the question	 as to the attempts made by	 the
Returning Officer to intimate the candidates of the defects
in their forms as required by the instructions issued by the
Election Commission it is stated that he made an attempt to
get the candidates in question but	 as they were	 not
available the same could not be served and that was the date
on which they filed the nomination papers for	 filing	 the
same. The next date was for the scrutiny. Therefore, there
was not much	time left for him to send any intimation
regarding the	discrepancies in the nomination	 papers	 and
therefore much	 cannot be made out without same. In	this
state of affairs if we appraise the evidence tendered before
the High Court it is difficult to subscribe to the	view
taken by the	High Court that if the candidates	were
available for the purpose of filing of the nomination papers
they could also be available for the purpose of taking oath
at the same time particularly when examined in the light of
the procedure adopted by the Returning Officer in presenting
the papers to	 the clerical staff who made a	 preliminary
scrutiny and	 thereafter put them	 up to him	 in
bundles/batches	 of 7	to 8 nomination papers	and he	 was
calling	 out the names of the candidates and thereafter made
appropriate entries in the register and gave a number to the
nomination form. This circumstance may indicate that	Mala
Ram, Yogender or Suresh Kumar was present at the time	when
clerks	received the nomination paper but when	 the papers
were placed before the Returning Officer he found that at
that time the	 candidate was not available to	 take oath.
There was definitely a time gap between the time when	 the
candidates presented the nomination papers to the clerks and
thereafter when the Returning Officer called out their names
for taking oath. Looked from that angle that the High Court
has been unduly critical of the evidence tendered by	 the
Returning Officer in this regard but ought to have accepted
his case and dismissed the election petition as we propose
to do now. We allow the appeals by the returned candidate
and the election petition will stand	 dismissed for	 the
reasons	 aforesaid. However, in the circumstances of	 the
case there shall be no order as to costs. SLP(C) Nos. 22529-22530 of 1997

 These petitions have now become unnecessary in view of
the order made by us in Civil Appeal Nos.5776-5777/97	 and
the same shall stand disposed of accordingly.