The petitioner in the subject petition calls in question

registration of crime in Crime No.84 of 2021 registered for offences

punishable under Sections 107 , 424 , 427 , 34 , 418 , 421 , 403 , 406 , 409 , 411 , 413 , 414 , 420 , 468 , 120 , 120A , 378 , 405 , 410 , 415 , 425 , 463 , 464 and 117 of the IPC and pending before the IV Additional

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bangalore City. 2. Brief facts leading to the filing of the present petition, as

borne out from the pleadings, are as follows:- 3. Heard Sri C.V.Nagesh, learned senior counsel appearing for

the petitioner, Smt. K.P.Yashodha, learned High Court Government

Pleader for respondent No.1 and Sri Kiran S.Javali, learned senior

counsel appearing for respondent No.2. 4. The learned senior counsel representing the petitioner

taking this Court through the documents appended to the petition,

would contend that it is purely a matter of contract between the 4 parties and there is no element of criminal breach of trust or

cheating or any of the offices so alleged. The crime is registered in

a reckless manner. Definitions of offences are made as offences and

since there is no application of mind in registering the crime, this

Court should interfere and terminate such proceedings which are

recklessly instituted against the petitioner. 5. On the other hand, the learned senior counsel representing

the 2nd respondent/complainant would vehemently refute the

submissions to contend that investors like the complainant invested

their investments with the petitioner, who is the Director of the

Company to deal with the funds in a proper manner in accordance

with law and not to invest in places where it is convenient for the

petitioner and then show up losses to them. The Securities and

Exchange Board of India ('SEBI' for short) has clearly indicated as

to what are the activities done by the petitioner and has further

indicated how the petitioner has misutilized the Power of Attorney

executed by the investors like the complainant. 6. In reply to the said submission, the learned senior counsel

for the petitioner would contend that SEBI, being a statutory body 5 having enquired into the allegations made against the petitioner has

in fact taken penal action of cancellation of licence under the

provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (' SEBI Act ' for short). Therefore both the proceedings under the SEBI Act and for offences under the IPC are not maintainable. Apart

from this, he would submit that there is gross delay of 6 years in

registering the crime as investments have been made in the year

2015. 7. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned senior counsel and perused the

material on record. 8. Since the matter is at the stage of FIR, there are no facts

that have emerged after the investigation that are before the Court

for consideration. The afore-quoted facts, though limited, are not in

dispute. What needs to be considered on the complaint and the

proceedings before the SEBI is: 9. The complaint so registered narrates that the accused

approached the complainant to open a trading account with the

accused No.1/company based on existing relationship between the

complainant and accused No.1 through its Director. paragraph 4 of

the complaint reads as follows: Likewise, the narration in the complaint is the aftermath of opening

of the DEMAT and Trading account of the complainant with the

Company. Paragraphs 16 and 17 of the complaint read as follows: The afore-quoted paragraphs make it clear that the activities of the

Company came to light after they discovered huge losses that have

occurred to them. Paragraph-16 makes it clear that the accused

through the Company have misappropriated moneys that ought to

have been credited to the account in the form of dividends to

unjustly enrich themselves. It was also discovered that the accused

have deliberately concocted the whole scheme to divert funds 8 received from the complainant to misappropriate complainant's

money and embezzle for their personal gains and profits by keeping

the complainant in dark. Such several instances are noticed.

Paragraphs 25 to 31 of the complaint read as under: Securities of client received in pay out are transferred from
 the pool account to this account and also securities lying in
 the demat account of the client(s) are also transferred into
 and form this account misusing power of attorney given by
 the client. 18. The securities lying in the aforesaid DP account actually
 belong to the clients which are the legitimate owners of the
 securities. Therefore, KSBL did not have any legal right to
 create any kind of pledge on these securities. Even if the
 client securities were pledged, it should have only been for
 meeting the obligations of the respective clients which was
 not observed in this case. Considering the issue of misuse of
 clients' securities by KSBL in unauthorized manner, for its
 own use and purposely not disclosing the DP account
 No.11458979, named KARVY STOCK BROKING LTD (BSE) to
 the Exchange in their reporting create a serious doubt on the
 conduct and integrity of KSBL. 19. The acts of KSBL are pirma facie in violatioin of Stock
 Broker Regulations, SEBI Circular No.SMD/
 SED/CIR/93/23321 dated November 18, 1993, SEBI Circular
 No.MRD/DOP/SE/CIR.11/2008 dated April 17, 2008, SEBI 10 Circular No.SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2 /CIR/P/2016/905 dated
 September 26, 2016, SEBI Circular
 No.SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/13 dated December, 2016,
 SEBI Circular No.CIR/MRD/DP/54 /2017 dated June 13,
 2017, SEBI Circular No.CIR/HO
 /HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/P/2017/64 dated June 22, 2017 and
 Circular No.CIR/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019 dated June 20,
 2019, as discussed above." The order dated 22-11-2019 was thereafter confirmed vide Oder
dated 24-11-2010 passed by the SEBI, wherein it was observed
that transfer of funds/securities made by the Accused Noo.1 to its
clients subsequent to SEBI order dated 22-11-2019 would not
absolve accused Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 from violations of the
provisions of the securities laws, as have been found in the forensic
audit report received in the matter. The Appeal preferred by the
accused NO.1 before the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) also
came to be dismissed vide Order dated 23-04-2021. True copies of
the aforesaid order of the SEBI dated 22-11-2019 and 24-11-2020
along with the order of SAT dated 23-04-2021 are produced
herewith as Document No.25 to Document No.27 respectively. 28. Upon reading the various news reports and the orders
passed by the SEBI, we came to realize that the accused Nos. 1, 2,
4, 5, 6, 7 8 and 9 have undertaken a massive scam to dupe its
innocent customers including the Company, by misusing the power
of attorney granted at the time of account opening to
misappropriate funds and assets of its customers and to divert
them to its sister concerns for its own private benefit. It thus
became clear to us that this entire scam, which includes the
transfer of the Company's funds and securities to the pool account
and the subsequent failure to restore the same has taken place at
the sole behest and connivance of the accused Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8 and 9 with the active connivance and deliberate support,
involvement and connivance of the Accused Nos. 3 to 10. We have
come to understand that the Accused are willful and habitual
defaulters, who have duped several thousands of people, including
the under-signed and the Company of our hard earned monies and
life savings. 29. We state that the accused have deliberately orchestrated
this entire scam to enable themselves to be able to illegally procure
funds for their other business, thus unjustly enriching themselves 11 at the expense of their innocent customers and clients, including
 the Company. 30. Thus, while at first, we were under the impression that
 these are tactics that were being employed by the accused No.3 to
 delay the processing of the transfer of our holdings, we have now
 come to understand that this entire transaction forms part of a
 scam that has been orchestrated by the accused Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6, 7,
 8 and 9 of the accused No.1 company. 31. In these facts and circumstances, during our numerous
 meeting with the accused No.3 attempting to reconcile differences
 and obtain a transfer of the company's securities, we were
 informed by him that the holdings depicted to be held in our name
 in the pool account of the accused No.1 company have been
 liquidated to fund other business belonging to the Karvy Group of
 Companies that the accused Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 are
 Directors of. Our suspicions in this regard were confirmed when
 the same came to be observed by the SEBI as well in its order
 dated 22-11-2019 wherein it was noted that a tentative amount of
 INR 1096,00,00,000/- was transferred by the accused No.1
 Company to its group company. Karvy Reality (India) Private
 Limited. It is pertinent to highlight that the accused No.2 is also a
 Director of Karvy Realty (India) Private Limited." (Emphasis applied)

In all, the investors like the complainant come to know of all the

activities of the Company only after the SEBI takes up the issue and

penalizes the Company. The tentative amount that was arrived to

be the losses was close to Rs.1096,00,00,000/-. It is further

germane to notice paragraphs 37 and 38 of the complaint where it

is clearly alleged that the funds are transferred to different

company which had resulted in losses. Paragraphs 37, 38 and 41

read as follows: 10. Since complaint itself makes copious reference to the

proceedings taken up by SEBI, it is necessary to notice what SEBI

has done in the issue. Proceedings were taken up by SEBI under Section 11(1) , 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI Act. The observations of

SEBI concerning the petitioner assume enormous significance with

regard to the activity of the petitioner - Company. Excerpts of the

order passed by SEBI read as follows: (Emphasis applied) 15 The order of SEBI in the nature of interim order is a product of

examination of contents. The SEBI records that the securities lying

in the account of the Company actually belong to investors who are

the legitimate owners of the pledged securities. It holds that even if

clients' securities are pledged it should be only for meeting the

obligations of the respective clients which are not done by the

Company. The Company has transferred securities worth Rs.27.8

crores off-market from the beneficial owner accounts of 156 clients

who had not executed a single trade with them. Further securities

worth 116.03 crores were transferred from 291 clients who have

not traded with the Company. Prima facie, SEBI found a net

amount of Rs.1096 crores being transferred by Karvy Stock Broking

Limited to another Company viz., Karvy Realty Private Limited. 11. It is the further observation of SEBI that the Company

sold excess securities which was not available in the DP account

again resulting in transfer of hundreds of crores of money belonging

to investors. In all, the SEBI holds that the Power of Attorney given

by the clients or the investors while investing their respective

amounts have been misused for their personal gains. It is on the 16 strength of this finding of SEBI the complaint is registered against

the Company. Therefore, it is a case where SEBI even on a

preliminary examination of the entire allegation has clearly held

that there is misuse of funds by the Company of the investors, one

of whom is the complainant. It is also a matter of record that

plethora of crimes are registered against the petitioner, few of them

are appended to the Interlocutory Application in Crime No. 56 of

2021 registered by one Upendra N.Shanbhag, an investor; Crime

No.722 of 2021 registered by one Arti Hegde; Crime No.90 of 2019

registered by one Smt. Ketki Shah Talati, in all of which accused is

the petitioner herein among others. 12. The submission of the learned senior counsel for the

petitioner that the complainant has executed a Power of Attorney

which clearly permits handling of the account in the manner that

the Company feels is, on the face of it, unacceptable. The reliance

placed by the learned senior counsel to clause (e) of the Power of

Attorney that money can be dealt with in the manner that they

want is too farfetched to be accepted, particularly, in the light of

the findings of SEBI albeit, interim, that the Power of Attorney 17 given by the investors had been misused to the tune of Rs.1096

crores as funds had been transferred from Karvy Stock Broking

Limited to Karvy Realty Private Limited and utilized for their

personal gains. In the teeth of the afore-narrated facts, the

complaint and the findings of SEBI, the investigation is yet to

conclude. This Court entertaining the petition interjecting the

investigation has resulted in stalling of further investigation.

Therefore, examination by this Court is only limited to what is

afore-noticed. 13. The main contention of the learned senior counsel for the

petitioner, apart from what is answered supra, is reckless

registration of crime, inclusion of offences that are definitions or

ingredients defined for offences. This submission though sounds

acceptance, will not take away the effect of the complaint or

registration of crime. It is only for the purpose of investigation. A

FIR need not necessarily be an encyclopedia of everything. Though

the 1st respondent/Police ought to have exercised caution in

reckless noting of crimes which are not even crimes under the IPC while registering the FIR, the same would not be a sufficient ground 18 for quashing the FIR, as the investigation conducted and further

proceedings against the petitioner would only be after filing of the

charge sheet. It would have been an altogether different

circumstance, if those offences were indicated in the charge sheet.

Mere offences as falling under the definition indicated in the FIR

would not vitiate the substance of the crime, though would be a

reckless act on the part of the Police. Therefore, the Police shall

exercise caution while registering crimes and not indicate offences

that are definitions. 14. Insofar as judgments, relied on by the learned senior

counsel for the petitioner, are concerned, they would all be

inapplicable to the facts of the case. In the case of RAVINDRANATHA BAJPE v. MANGALORE SPECIAL ECONOMIC

ZONE LIMITED - 2021 SCC Online SC 806, though the Apex

Court holds that issuing summons to an accused is a very serious

matter and the Court ought to exercise caution while issuing

summons, that stage has not yet arrived in the case at hand. The

same goes with the judgment in the case of SHARAT BABU

DIGUMARTI v. GOVERNMENT (NCT OF DELHI ) - (2017) 2 19 SCC 18. Therefore, the matter being at the stage of investigation,

the authorities so relied on for the said point would not come to the

rescue of the learned senior counsel for the petitioner. 15. Insofar as judgments relied on in the case of VIJAY

KUMAR GHAI AND OTHERS v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL AND

OTHERS - 2022 SCC Online SC 344; ANANDA KUMAR

MOHATTA AND ANOTHER v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI)

DEPARTMENT OF HOME AND ANOTHER - (2019) 11 SCC 706

and SARDAR ALI KHAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH - (2020) 12 SCC 51 were all rendered in the peculiar facts of those

cases where there was a breach of memorandum of understanding

between the parties therein and charge sheets had been filed in

those cases. The findings of the Apex Court in those cases were

that criminal breach of trust under Section 406 and cheating under Section 420 of the IPC did not come about even to their remotest

sense. It is in those circumstances, the Apex Court has quashed the

proceedings. In the case at hand, there is a clear finding by SEBI

that the Power of Attorney given by the complainant or the

investors had been misused. Therefore, entrustment of property 20 that is investment was with the Company and the Company has

misused the said investment albeit, prima facie, which would be a

clear case of breach of trust or criminal breach of trust. 16. Insofar as the offence of cheating is concerned, the same

would also become applicable on a bare look at the complaint and

the findings of SEBI, as the Company did solicit investments

showing certain returns, but the Company has invested elsewhere

which has resulted in huge losses to the investors, like the

complainant. Unless investigation is complete and final report is

filed, the element of cheating, prima facie, is met in the case at

hand. 17. Insofar as the submission with regard to delay in

registering the crime, no doubt, the agreement was executed in the

year 2015. The investments are a continuous process. Dividends

come into the account of the investors intermittently. Therefore, it

is a continued action and the complainant gets to know only after

the SEBI initiates several proceedings against the Company and has

immediately registers the complaint. Therefore, in the case at 21 hand, there is absolutely no delay as is alleged by the learned

senior counsel for the petitioner. Delay in all cases cannot be vital,

except in peculiar facts obtaining in certain cases. The case at hand

is not the one that can be considered that delay has resulted in

embellishment and such embellishment would necessarily mean

that the crime should be quashed. There are seriously disputed

questions of fact in the case at hand, which will have to be

investigated and unearthed, as the investment of the complainant

like all other investors has been at stake presently, purely on the

activity of the Company through its office bearers. Therefore, none

of the submissions or any of the armory from the arsenal of the

learned senior counsel for the petitioner would render any

assistance to obliterate very registration of crime against the

petitioner. 18. Finding no merit in the petition, it necessarily meets its

dismissal and is accordingly dismissed. It is made clear that the observations made in the course of

the order are only for the purpose of consideration of the case of 22 petitioner under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and the same shall not bind

or influence the proceedings against any other accused. The first

respondent shall conclude investigation without any loss of time as

the crime is registered in 2021 and a final report shall be filed as

expeditiously as possible by the Investigating Officer before the

concerned court. Consequently, I.A.No.2/2022 also stands disposed. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ