SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Caught in an ugly trap
DATE: 2022-10-04
SCORE: 0
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/xuykgv/caught_in_an_ugly_trap/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi my dear Indians, I know this might be the wrong place to ask but I'm running out of options and am in an extremely miserable place mentally, physically and financially. Please let me know if any other subs might help.

Situation: I finished my Master's in May 2022 and I joined a desi consultancy (an utterly brainless decision I admit). They filed for h1 under consular processing (which I suppose means that I can be on my OPT till I get it stamped from India) and the petition is approved now. I've been trying to find a contract since 5 months but with no luck. They've been running a fake payroll where I give back my salary in cash. Against all my instincts I thought I'll be able to fit in the environment and sell myself as a 5-6 year experienced professional (like they make you do it). Turns out I can't do it. I'm mentally exhausted, having destructive thoughts, have no source of income. I have no will to continue faking my experience, and even if I get a contract I don't know how I'll work as someone from whom so much will be expected. And when filing for h1 they made me sign a contract. There isn't a minimum term mentioned but there are damages mentioned if I decide to quit(which could be anywhere between 5-30k usd. Now my questions:

If I find a full time in Jan - feb and the company is willing to file a new petition for h1, how will the current employer be able to stop that process?

If I don't find a contract, should I let the current company revoke my approved h1 (since I'm technically on OPT)?

How much could be the monetary damages if the current company decided to sue me, if I transferred to another company without letting them know?

Anyone with a similar situation please message me. I came to the US with a lot of dreams and hopes. And I'm seeing my future being destroyed because of this decision I made. I know talking to a lawyer is the best option, but first I want to get to know as much as I can, as I do not have money to afford a lawyer right now. I beg of you readers to share what you know or direct me to subs, websites or people I can talk to🙏