For Applicant :Shri Arvind Shrivastava, Advocate
For Respondent/State :Shri Ali Asgar, Deputy Advocate General
For Objector :Shri Hari Agrawal, Advocate. Hon'ble Shri Justice Parth Prateem Sahu

 Order on Board
19.05.2022 1. Heard on I.A.No. 02/2022 seeking grant of ad-interim bail to applicant

No.2 - Anmol Sharma, as he has been arrested on 30.04.2022 in connection

with Crime No. 423/2022 registered in Police Station City Kotwali, District

Raigarh for the offence punishable under Sections 420, 494, 495 read with Section 34 IPC. 2. According to the prosecution story, a report was lodged by one

Gaurav Saluja stating, inter alia, that his marriage was solemnized with one

Arti Saluja and the present applicants are her father and brother. Further

prosecution story is that the present applicants along with other co-accused

persons suppressed the material facts that Arti Saluja is a divorced woman

and at the time of engagement with the complainant, her first marriage was

surviving and that a case was pending between her and her husband. 2 Thereafter, he came to know the real facts from one Advocate, namely, M.

Ansari of Giridih (Jharkhand) to the effect that both the present applicants

and other co-accused persons involved in the crime played fraud with him to

get his marriage with Arti Saluja. Based upon the said report, an offence

mentioned herein above has been registered in connection with the alleged

crime. 3. Learned counsel appearing for the applicants submits that applicant

No.2 - Anmol Saluja appeared in the competitive examination for

appointment on the post of Clerk-XI and after clearing the written

examination, he was declared qualified and a letter was issued from UCO

Bank for his appearance in biometric, language proficiency test as well as

document verification, scheduled to be held at Zonal Office Patna on

20.05.2022 vide Annexure P/10. He contended further that pending final

hearing of this bail application, applicant No.2 may be enlarged on ad-interim

bail for a limited period. 4. On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the

State/respondent as well as the counsel for the Objector submit that at

present they are not in a position to dispute the Annexure A/10 showing the

appearance of applicant No.2 for biometric, document verification and

language proficiency test scheduled to be held on 20.05.2022. They

contended further that even after his release, he would not be able to reach

Patna on 20.05.2022 for biometric, document verification as well as

language proficiency test. 5. At this stage, learned counsel appearing for applicant No.2 submits

that if he is enlarged on ad-interim bail, he would be able to complete

necessary formalities, i.e., biometric, document verification as well as

language proficiency test as set out by the UCO Bank, and would make a

request before the concerned authority for any other date to participate in 3 the interview, or else it would affect his career adversely. 6. I have heard learned counsel appearing for the parties and perused

 the documents annexed with I.A.No.5/2022. 7. Considering the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties

 and considering the document annexed with I.A.No.5/2022 as Annexure

 A/10, I.A.No.02/2022, which is an application for grant of ad-interim bail with

 respect to applicant No.2 is allowed. 8. Accordingly, the applicant No.2 is enlarged on ad-interim bail for a

 period of three weeks from today on his furnishing a personal bond in sum of

 Rs.25,000/- with one surety in the like sum to the satisfaction of the

 concerned trial Court for his appearance before it as and when directed by

 the said Court. The applicant shall surrender before the Court concerned on

 10th of June, 2022. List this case in the week commencing 13 th June, 2022 for final

 hearing. C.c. today. Sd/- (Parth Prateem Sahu)
 Vacation Judge

Anjani