It is to inform you all that person from this company are cheaters, scammers & Fraudster. They have started new type of scam called "National Achievement Awards" to be held at Taj Vivanta, Navi Mumbai on 27 August 2023 & collected the money on the pretext of PR Services & Registration Charges as well as promising that event and the awardee will get a 10 Seconds Coverage on TV News Channels at Aaj tak, India TV and Zee News. They also used the chief guest Mrs. Kajal Aggarwal name in their mails to entice various corporate & NGO to pay them. Out of our shock we received the Whats App message followed by mail from them that due to medical condition of Chief Guest event is postponed to 21October 2023 to avoid any refund. When I asked for our refund of Rs. 10000/- which was paid by us through Razorpay & NEFT to Federal bank: ACCOUNT NUMBER : [protected] IFSC : FDRL0001001 BENIFICIARY : BRANDS KRAFT MEDIA BANK: FEDERAL BANK I have lodged the Police complaint with Cyber Crime Cell against these fraudster & being a true Citizen of India making aware you all to be cautious & vigilant of such type of scams & Fraud. I am attaching all mail correspondence & proof. Greetings from Brands Kraft! CONGRATULATIONS! In recognition of your growing popularity and recent achievements, we are pleased to congratulate you for the selection in National Achievement Awards-2023 in the category of "Best NGO of The Year In Mumbai" The On-ground event is scheduled to be held on 27th August, 2023 in Mumbai, Please note, you are expected to be physically available to receive the award on the day of the ceremony from our chief guest Mrs. Kajal Aggarwal on stage. The goal of these awards is to celebrate and honor the fame earned by those who set the standards for impeccable work in the country through their excellence, determination, and consistency to make their work stand out and excel in these turbulent times and reckoning economy. Please find your promotional package details with the special discount on your profile below, you are requested to choose one to proceed further. 1. Silver Package: Rs 24, 999 (Special Discounted Offer On Request) Deliverables- 1. National Achievement Awards Certificate & Trophy by the hands of the chief guest on stage. 2. Invitation for 2 People to attend the ceremony. 3. Announcement by the Emcee with a brief profile of the organization during the event 4. You will be getting networking opportunities with other founders, directors, entrepreneurs and government dignitaries. 5. Photography & Videography: Exclusive Pictures and Videos of the event by a professional team. 6. Display of Your Company Logo And Name in the Stage Display Board. 7. An Article about your award with photos at ANI, Midday.com, Your Story. 8. Dinner After the Event and Business Networking. 9. Advertising Rights: • Permission to use Award Certificate and Trophy on Website, Social Media and other promotions • Permission for the usage of the Event pictures and Video(s) on official and third-party websites like YouTube, Facebook, etc. • Permission for the usage of the Award Certificate, Award Logos, Event Pictures in advertising and promotional campaigns, on official websites, and stationery including letterheads and brochures among other things as per the official Limited Copyright License Rules and Regulations. Note: On Both of the packages, the event and the awardee will get a 10 Seconds Coverage on TV News Channels at Aaj tak, India TV and Zee News. Payment Terms: Amount Required for Booking on Any of the Package: Rs 8, 000/- Pending Payment : Before 7 Days of the Event Date. Booking Amount Payment Bank Account Details Account Number: [protected] Beneficiary Name: BRANDS KRAFT IFSC: RATN0VAAPIS Bank : RBL Bank. Ltd. Booking Link: https://rzp.io/i/IKKejMx1mS Once the Booking Amount is Paid, Please Share the Screenshot / Receipt and you will get the Seat ID and Slot Confirmation for your Award. Note: You Will be receiving the Event Passes on the email And Registered Whats app number prior 7 days of the Event. Photography/ Videography Will be done by our team of professionals and will be submitted to over the email. Also the Award Trophy and the Certificate will be Provided by the Chief Guest on the Stage. We look forward to your active participation to make the event a great success. Should you seek further details, please feel free to call and discuss at [protected] or Whats app at [protected]. Regards, Team Brands Kraft In Association with Tebixa Technologies Pvt. Ltd. www.brandskraft.com Email: [protected]@brandskraft.com Contact:[protected]