This petition U/s 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation

Act, 1996 ('the Act' for short) is filed by the respondents in

the matter of arbitration of disputes between Hubbali-

Dharwad water Supply Project Ltd. & Anr. Vs Karnataka 3 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation

& Anr., for setting aside the arbitral award dated 21.09.2021

passed by the respondents 3 to 5 herein constituting the

Arbitral Tribunal ('the AT' for short). 2. The parties are referred as per their original rank

before the AT for clarity. 3. Brief facts leading to filing of the petition are that the

respondents and the consortium of Ranhill utilities Sdn. Bhd

(Malaysia), Z & AP Antonaropoulos, SA (Greece) and IL & FS

Water Ltd, the 2nd claimant ('JV consortium' for short)

entered into an agreement dated 15.04.2016 ('the

Agreement' for short) to provide cost effective and

sustained up-scaling of continuous pressurized water

supply, operation and maintenance and management of

water supply system in Huballi - Dharward cities. The 1 st

claimant was appointed as a Special Purpose Vehicle for

carrying out the obligations of the JV consortium under the

Agreement. The contract term of was divided into three

phases, (i) Start up period of one year; (ii) Transition period

of three years; and (iii) Sustaining period of eight years.

During the start up period the 1st claimant submitted two 4 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

draft Service Improvement Plans ('SIP' for short) which not

only exceeded the Capital Expenditure Limit ('CAPEX' for

short) under the Agreement but also required modification

of the the transition period. The respondents issued notice

to correct in terms of Clause 20.4, but the 1 st claimant failed

to comply with the demand, as such the respondents

terminated the Agreement by issuing notice dated

05.10.2018. For resolution of the disputes that arose during

the start up period by arbitration, the claimants and the

respondents appointed one Arbitrator each in terms of

Clause 27 of the Agreement and they in turn appointed the

Presiding Arbitrator on 07.12.2017. 4. Alleging default on the respondents' part and the

same resulting in loss to the 1st claimant, the Operator

under the agreement, the claimants submitted the claim for

damages of Rs.27,63,32,113/- with additional interest

towards start up period fees or Rs.48,88,92,363/- with

interest towards pending fee and expenses;

Rs.24,24,00,000/- towards increased cost due to delay in

implementation of the project; Rs.18,54,55,081/- towards

loss of expected fees; Rs.179,66,10,250/- with interest for

wrongful termination of the Agreement; Rs.100,80,05,882/- 5 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

for loss of expected fee due to early termination and loss of

annual profit on account of the Agreement becoming

impossible to perform over 12 years period or

Rs.100,80,05,882/- towards loss of expected fee due to

early termination and loss of expected profit at 15% p.a. or

Rs.136,36,00,000/- towards loss due to wrongful termination

and Rs.11,55,60,250/- for expenses incurred, interest at

18% p.a from 15.04.2016, cost and expenses of arbitration. 5. The respondents filed the statement of defence

denying breach on their part and raised counter claim for

Rs.15.78 Crore towards liquidated damages and refund of

money already paid; Rs.748.01 Crore towards cost overrun

due to delay in moving to transition period or Rs.1206.34

Crore towards cost overrun due to termination of the

contract and rebidding; Rs.100 Crore as damages for loss of

reputation and goodwill in addition to legal expenses with

interest at 24% p.a. contending that the claimants

committed breach of the Agreement by failing to perform

the obligations and to rectify the short comings pointed out

in the notice to correct dated 07.09.2017; and also sought

changes in the terms of the Agreement as well as its scope.

In spite of their attempts to settle the dispute amicably, the 6 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

claimants were not willing to proceed with the project and

therefore, the Agreement was terminated by issuing notice

dated 05.10.2018. 6. After recording oral and documentary evidence of the

parties and on hearing both sides, the AT passed the

impugned award on 21.09.2021 allowing the claim in part

directing the respondents to pay to the following amounts

to the 1st claimant and rejected the counter claim in toto: (d) Further interest at 9% p.a. on the
 aggregate amount of Rs.15,62,91,878/-
 from the date of the award. 7. Aggrieved by the same, the respondents have filed

this petition on the ground that the conclusions of the AT

are contrary to the evidence on record, admissions of Cw2,

reports of the Expert Reviewer and Technical Advisor and

the terms of the Agreement. Awarding of Rs.2,66,37,063/-

towards set up cost is without any basis. The claimants had 7 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

not furnished Bank Guarantee within 15 days from the

Effective Date (15.05.2016) for the respondents to release

50% of the set up cost and no evidence was adduced by the

claimants with regard to acquiring any asset in terms of

Clause 19 for executing the project. Upon termination of the

Agreement, no asset is handed over to them by the

claimants in terms of Clauses 24.1 and 24.4.1. The findings

of the AT that the Topographic Survey was complete and the

1st claimant had taken steps to rectify the deficiencies is

contrary to the evidence on record; and Cw2's admission

that hardly 25% of the customer survey was complete and

Topographic Survey was incomplete; that they did not

rectify the same despite the Expert Reviewer and Technical

Auditor repeatedly opining that the survey was incomplete

is completely ignored by the AT. 7(a). The evidence of the respondents' witnesses including

the Expert Reviewer that the 1st claimant failed to carryout

the surveys and other works in terms of the Agreement

during the start up period and also Cw2's admission that

Pipeline Infrastructure Asset Condition Assessment was not

carried out by them, is brushed aside by the AT to award

Rs.1,61,06,513/- towards the same. Even the SIP submitted 8 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

by the 1st claimant was incomplete and the Expert

Reviewer's evidence to that effect is not considered by the

AT. Interim Expert Reviewer was appointed by them as

required under the Agreement. Though the 1 st claimant

never claimed that its work was hindered because of the

delay in appointing the Expert Reviewer and Technical

Auditor; and no evidence was let in to that effect. On the

other hand ample evidence was placed on record with

regard to delay on the part of the 1 st claimant to appoint

General Manager, Operations Manager and Finance

Manager and the lead partner 'Ranhill' failing to appoint six

key Operator Personnel as required under the Agreement.

Therefore, the findings that there was delay on their part in

appointing the Expert Reviewer and Technical Auditor, is

without any basis and awarding of Rs.17,74,22,478/- on

such count should be set aside. 7(b). That in the presence of the Expert Reviewer's

evidence, Technical Auditor's report that the start up period

was not completed, as the draft SIP was incomplete and the

admission of Cw2 that they had not complied with various

obligations during the start up period, the AT's conclusion

that they did not take over to commence the transition 9 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

period activities is perverse. The 1st claimant sought

extension of transition period to five years from the initially

agreed three years and the same amounted to modifying

the terms of the Agreement. They had to make payment

only if the 1st claimant were to fulfill the obligations under

the Agreement in terms of Clause 23.1. Contrary to the

same as well as Clause 12.1(c) r/w Schedule 12A1 and

Cw2's admission that their reports were incomplete, the AT

has erroneously concluded that there is nothing like 'Agreed

SIP' and awarded Rs.11,51,33,592/- as start up period fee,

even though Rs.16.40 Crore was already paid. The

deficiencies pointed out by the Technical Auditor and Expert

Reviewer with regard to the draft SIP are wrongly held in

favour the 1st claimant and to hold that the terms of

contract was substantially complied. The same cannot be

sustained in view of the Expert Reviewer's evidence, Cw2's

admission that the draft SIP was incomplete.

7(c). Further, as per Clause 13.8.1 interest was payable for

the delay in payment only during the transition period and

sustaining period activities, not during the start up period.

The AT has awarded interest in favour of the claimants

against the terms of the agreement and ignoring the 10 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

evidence with regard to the 1 st claimant failing to carry out

the obligations as stipulated under Schedule 12. The 1 st

claimant spent more than 2.5 years on the start up period

activities, but failed to fulfill its obligations. As such they

were entitled to liquidated damages in terms of the

Agreement. But the AT denied the counter claim for

liquidated damages just because the same was not levied

during the subsistence of the contract. Likewise, without

any justification, the AT refused to grant refund of the

amount already paid. Even according to the claimants

additional sum of over Rs.200 crore was required for

carrying out the project work, but the AT rejected the

counter claim for the same. When the agreed dollar

conversion rate under the agreement was Rs.66.74 per

dollar, the AT has considered the same at Rs.67/- per dollar.

In view of the notification dated 17.03.2012 issued by the

Govt. of India exempting tax on service provided to the

Govt. or local authority by way of erection, construction,

maintenance, repair, alterations, renovations or restoration

of pipeline conduit or plant for drinking water supply, water

treatment, sewage treatment or disposal etc. and the failure

of the claimants' to prove payment of service tax on the 11 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

amounts already received, the AT should have deducted the

service tax from the amount awarded towards the first

claim. The AT lacked jurisdiction to entertain the claimants

violated Clause 27.2 r/w Schedule 21 of the Agreement and

there the impugned award should be set aside. 8. The claimants have filed the statement of objections

contending that the challenge to an arbitral award is limited

to the grounds U/s 34 of the Act and scope for judicial

intervention is minimal. While deciding an application U/s 34

of the Act, the court should refrain from appreciation and

reappreciation of matters of fact; arbitral award can be held

to be patently illegal only if it is contrary to the substantive

provisions of law, provisions of the Act or the terms of

contract. Construction of contract is primarily for the AT to

decide and unless the terms of contract are construed

unreasonably, the impugned award cannot be set aside as

being patently illegal. This court cannot enter upon merits

of the dispute and re-arguing the entire dispute is not

permissible U/s 34 of the Act. The respondents have not

made out any of the grounds U/s 34(2) and the AT has

delivered the award after extensive and detailed arbitration

proceedings. The frame work of the Agreement was the 12 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

subject matter of the dispute and interpretation of the

contract cannot be done U/s 34 of the Act; AT has analyzed

in detail their submissions with regard to appointment of

key operator personnel to conclude that delay in

appointment of such personnel or their lack of qualification /

experience did not affect the service in any manner. There

was delay of more than six months in appointing an Expert

Reviewer. The Agreement did not provide for appointment

of an interim Expert Reviewer and therefore his

appointment on 15.02.2017 was of no consequence.

8(a). That the issues between the parties with regard to

survey etc., request for change of CAPEX etc., are

considered and appreciated by the AT on the basis of

evidence. Relevant clauses of the agreement are examined

while awarding Rs.2,66,37,063/- towards set up cost;

releasing of 90% of the amount towards 50% set up cost by

the 1st respondent by letter dated 07.10.2017 is also taken

into account. They were justified in requesting for

amendment to the agreement but the respondents openly

ignored the clause providing for such amendment subject to

mutual agreement. In paras 123 and 124 of the award, the

AT has carefully examined the Clauses in the Agreement 13 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

and also the evidence to conclude that the respondents are

liable to pay 75% of SIP fee. Interest is awarded considering

unreasonable delay in making payments. Awarding of

reasonable interest is within the domain of the AT and the

counter claim for liquidated damages was rightly rejected;

and the respondents had not levied the same in the first

notice to correct and no date was specified for levying the

liquidated damages. The respondents did not file an

application U/s 16 of the Act questioning the jurisdiction of

the AT or pressed their objections with regard to the same

during the arbitration proceedings. Even the question of

service tax was not raised and Notification dated

17.03.2012 was not produced before the AT. There was

novation of Agreement as the JV consortium was replaced

with the SPV. The lead partner's participation would have

been crucial during the transition period due to experience

in operations and management; and the start up period

which was dedicated for design, studies and surveys. The

respondents have failed to establish any infirmity or

irregularity in the impugned award and therefore, the

petition should be dismissed. Com.A.P.No.03/2022 9. Heard arguments; perused the written arguments by

both sides as well as the arbitration records. 10. Sri.Udaya Holla, the learned Senior counsel appearing

for Sri.Adithya Prasad for the respondents/petitioners has

relied upon the following judgments: reported in (2014) 9 SCC 263 where it is
 held that the arbitrator must have judicial
 approach and cannot act arbitrarily or
 capriciously; award ignoring crucial
 evidence and drawing of wrong inference,
 perversity and irrationality are grounds for
 inference as application of mind is
 fundamental policy of Indian law; (b) Paras 24 to 26 in State of
 Chhattisgarh & Anr. Vs SAL Udyog (P)
 Ltd. reported in (2022) 2 SCC 275 where
 it is held that an award not in accordance
 with contract is in gross contravention of Sec.28(3) of the Act; failure to decide the
 dispute in terms of contract and finding
 based on no evidence or the award which
 ignores vital evidence to arrive at a
 decision amounts to patent illegality; (c) Paras 18, 27, 31, 32 and 36 in Associate Builders Vs DDA reported in
 (2015) 3 SCC 49 where it is clarified that
 if an award is against the interest of India,
 justice or morality and disregards the 15 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

orders passed by the superior courts will be
in contravention of the fundamental policy
of Indian law and the public policy; ( d) Para 29 Delhi Airport Metro Express
Pvt. Ltd. Vs Delhi Metro Rail
Corporation Ltd. reported in (2022) 1
SCC 131; Para 41 in Ssangyog Engineering
Construction Co. Ltd. Vs NHAI reported
in (2019) 15 SCC 131; and

Paras 14, 31 to 33 in South East Asia
Marine Engineering and Constructions
Ltd. (SEAMEC Ltd.) Vs Oil India Ltd . reported in (2020) 5 SCC 164; Para 11.2 in Parsa Kente Collieries Ltd.
Vs Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan
Nigam Ltd. reported in (2019) 7 SCC
236
 where it is held that the conclusions of
 the arbitrator based on no evidence or
 arrived at by ignoring vital evidence is
 held to be perverse and set aside on the
 ground of patent illegality (e) Para 49 in Project Director NHAI Vs
M.Hakeem & Anr. reported in (2021) 9
SCC 1, where award based on irrelevant
factors/material is held to be perverse. (f) Paras 10 and 16 in Union of India Vs
Manraj Enterprises reported in (2022) 2
SCC 331 holding that the arbitrator cannot
award interest contrary to the terms of the
agreement/contract between the parties. 16 Com.A.P.No.03/2022 (g) Para 21 in State of Orissa & Ors. Vs
 Tata Sponge Iron Ltd. reported in
 (2007) 8 SCC 189 wherein it is reiterated
 that an exemption notification must be
 liberally construed. (h) Para 21 in Assistant Commissioner
 (CT) LTU & Anr. Vs Amara Raja
 Batteries Ltd. reported in (2009) 8 SCC
 209 wherein it is clarified that an
 exemption notification should be given a
 literary (sic literal) meaning. Recourse to
 other principles or cannons of
 interpretation or statute should be
 resorted to only in the event the same give
 rise to anomaly or absurdity. The
 exemption notification must be construed
 having regard to the purpose and object it
 seeks to achieve when the government
 sought to increase in industrial
 development in the state such a
 benevolent act on the part of the State
 should be given full effect unless there
 exist any statutory interdict. 11. Sri.T.Srinivasa Murthy for Sri.Nitin Ramesh for the

claimants/respondents relies upon the following judgments

in support of his arguments on the scope of Section 34 of

the Act: Para 9.1 in Parsa Kente Collieries Ltd. Vs Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan 17 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

 Nigam Ltd. reported in (2019) 7 SCC
 236; Para 29 Delhi Airport Metro Express
 Pvt. Ltd. Vs Delhi Metro Rail
 Corporation Ltd. reported in (2022) 1
 SCC 131; Paras 38 and 41 in Ssangyog
 Engineering Construction Co. Ltd. Vs NHAI reported in (2019) 15 SCC
 131

 Para 21 in P.R.Shah Vs
 B.H.H.Securities reported in (2012) 1
 SCC 594

 Para 25 in Dyna Technologies (P) Ltd. Vs Crompton Greaves Ltd. reported in
 (2019) 20 SCC 1
 and ( b) Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti, New
 Mandi Yard, Alwar Vs Commissioner
 of Central Excise and Service Tax,
 Alwar reported in (2022) 5 SCC 62 for
 the proposition that the exemption
 notification should not be liberally
 construed. 12. In reply, the learned Senior counsel submits that the

AT was bound to take judicial notice of the notification but

exempted payment of service tax in respect of the work

undertaken by the claimants under the Agreement; and if

any judgment or award or order is passed ignoring the

statutory provisions and the judgment of the superior 18 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

courts, it will be per incurium relying on the following

judgments: reported in (1995) 4 SCC 96, a case
 where the High Court of Mandhya
 Pradesh took a different view of
 Sec.138(b) of Madhya Pradesh Muncipal
 Corporation Act (annual value of
 building) when the matter was no more
 res integra and concluded by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court in Municipal Corporation
 Vs Rathnaprabha reported in (1976) 4
 SCC 622, placing reliance on some other
 decision on a similar provision in some
 other statute applicable in other states
 wherein there was no non obstante
 clause as in the case of Madhya Pradesh
 Municipal Corporation Act . Under such
 circumstances it is made clear that
 earlier decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court cannot be overruled even by a co- equal bench. (ii) Para 16 to 28 in National Insurance
 Co.Ltd. Vs Pranay Sethi & Ors. reported in (2017) 16 SCC 680
 &
 Para 15 in Y.Seetharama Holla & Anr. Vs Gopala Rao reported in AIR 1985
 KAR 219, where dealing with the
 question of bindingness of prior co- ordinate bench judgment, it is held that
 the doctrine of binding precedent is of
 utmost importance in the administration
 of judicial system. It promotes certainty
 and consistency in judicial decisions. 19 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

 Judicial consistency promotes confidence
 in the system. Discipline demanded by a
 precedent or disqualification or
 diminution of a decision on the
 application of the per incurium rule is of
 great importance, since without it,
 certainty of law, consistency of rulings
 and comity of courts would become a
 costly casualty. A decision or judgment
 can be per incurium if any provision in a
 statute, rule or regulation which is not
 brought to the notice of the court. A
 decision or judgment can also be per
 incurium if it is not possible to reconcile
 its ratio with that of a previously
 pronounced judgment of a co-equal or
 larger bench. There can be no scintilla of
 doubt that an earlier decision of co-equal
 bench binds the Bench of same strength. 13. In light of the grounds urged and the rival contentions

of the parties, the points that arise for the consideration

are: Com.A.P.No.03/2022 3. Whether the respondents/
 petitioners have made out the
 grounds U/s 34(2) and 34(2 A) of the
 Act for setting aside the impugned
 award, as prayed? 4. What order? 14. My findings on the above points are: 15. Before taking up the points for consideration for

discussion, it is necessary to understand the scope of Sec.34 of the Act as enunciated in the judgments relied

upon by both sides. 16. Arbitral award can be set aside only on the grounds

provided U/ Sec.34 of the Act, as enunciated in the various

judgments relied upon by both sides; AT is the ultimate

master of the quantity and quality of evidence to be relied

upon; a possible view taken by the AT on facts has

necessarily to pass muster as it is the last word on facts.

Construction of the terms of contract is primarily for the AT

to decide. When the terms of the contract are reasonably 21 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

interpreted, the award cannot be interfered with U/s 34 of

the Act. Every error of law committed by the AT will not fall

within the meaning of patent illegality and the courts are

prohibited from reappreciating facts and evidence and from

substituting the AT's view with its own. But when the AT fails

to decide in accordance with terms of contract governing

parties, it amounts to gross contravention of Sec.28(3) of

the Act and a patent illegality. 17. Undisputed facts of the case as emerging from the

records are - (a) The respondents invited global bid for cost
 effective and sustainable up-scaling of 24x7
 pressurized water supply in the twin cities of
 Hubballi-Dharwad. On accepting the bid of JV
 consortium, the Agreement came to be
 entered into. The 1st claimant was incorporated
 as the SPV by the JV consortium to carryout
 their obligations under the Agreement. The
 project was to be executed in three phases
 viz., Start Up period of 12 months from
 15.05.2016 being the effective date; Transition
 Period of 3 years from the close of the start up
 period and Sustaining period. (b) During the Start Up period, the claimants
 were required to carry out various assessments 22 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

such as Environmental and Social assessment,
conduct surveys like Customer Survey,
Topographic Survey etc., as set out in Schedule
5 and submit reports; prepare and submit
Transition Handover Plan (THP),
Comprehensive Assessment Plan (CAP),
Advance Procurement Plan (APP), Operation
and Management Plan (O&M Plan), Service
Improvement Plan (SIP). And in this period,
they were entitled for Set Up Cost for
mobilizing men and material to carryout their
obligation under the agreement. SIP fee was
also payable during this period towards
Customer Survey, Topography Survey, Pipeline
Asset Condition Assessment Survey; and
payments were to be made as set out in
Schedule 12. (c). The respondents had to appoint an
independent Expert Reviewer and a Technical
Auditor within 90 days and 180 days from the
effective date respectively but, the
appointments were made on 26.04.2017 and
29.08.2017. The claimants too had to appoint
six Key Operator Personnel with academic
qualification and experience as set out in
Schedule 8 within 3 days from the effective
date but only two persons were appointed as
Key Operator Personnel. Com.A.P.No.03/2022 (d). The claimants carried out surveys,
 assessments and submitted two draft SIPs, one
 in June 2017 and the other in February 2018.
 The 2nd draft SIP required enhancement of the
 CAPEX limit and extension of transition period
 from 3 years to 5 years. The respondents
 issued notice to correct in terms of clause 20.4
 and thereafter, terminated the Agreement by
 issuing notice dated 05.10.2018. 18. Point No.1: The learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the respondents, drawing attention to Clause 27.2 r/w with

Schedule 21 of the Agreement providing for reference to

adjudicator before commencing arbitration proceedings,

argues that the claimants did not comply with the said

Clause and therefore, the AT lacked jurisdiction. 19. Per contra, the learned counsel for the claimants

argues that the respondents cannot agitate this, as they

did not press the objection with regard to AT's jurisdiction,

during arbitration proceedings and no application U/s 16 of

the Act was ever filed or raised this issue in the written

arguments filed in the arbitration proceedings. 24 Com.A.P.No.03/2022 20. From Clause 27 it is seen that the parties had agreed

to make best efforts to resolve the disputes promptly,

equitably and in good faith, in consultation with the

Technical Auditor and the Expert Reviewer; and to provide

each other, reasonable access to all non privileged records,

information and data pertaining to any dispute, during

normal business hours. 21. Further, within 60 days from the effective date the

claimants and the respondents had to prepare a list of

candidates with professional qualification and attributes as

set out in Schedule 21 and to appoint an adjudicator from

the said list within 90 days from the effective date (Clause

27.2.1). Only such disputes which could not be resolved

through amicable settlement was to be referred to the

adjudicator and resolution by arbitration could be resorted

to only in respect the disputes that remained unresolved by

adjudication (Clause 27.3). 22. It is not the case of the respondents that a list of

candidates to be chosen as adjudicator was prepared within

60 days from the effective date or that an an adjudicator

was appointed from that list within 90 days from the 25 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

effective date in terms of clause 27.2.1. And as seen from

23 of the impugned award it was the respondents' who

contended that the attempt to reach amicable settlement

failed as the claimants were unwilling. 23. As per Clause 27.3.2, the arbitration panel was agreed

to be constituted with three arbitrators, of whom one each

to be selected by the 2nd respondent and the Operator and

the 3rd arbitrator to be appointed by the two arbitrators so

selected. The records reveal that the 1 st claimant had

addressed a letter stating that the list of adjudicators was

not prepared as required under the agreement. 24. On 30.09.2017, the claimants intimated the

respondents about appointing the 4th respondent herein as

their arbitrator. It is relevant to note here that the

respondents did not reply to the same registering their

objections, if any or insisting for dispute resolution by

adjudication before proceeding with arbitration. But, the 5 th

respondent herein was appointed as the arbitrator from

their side and the same was intimated to the claimants by

letter dated 16.11.2017. Com.A.P.No.03/2022 25. In the above circumstances, the respondents by

conduct, appear to have waived the requirement of

referring the dispute to Adjudicator in terms of Clause

27.2.1. Therefore, there is no merit in the challenge to AT's

jurisdiction and the reference to arbitration cannot be said

to be premature as held in Demerara Distilleries (P) Ltd.

Vs Demerara Distilleries Ltd. reported in (2015) 13 SCC 610. The point for consideration is answered accordingly in

the negative. 26. Point No.2: The AT has awarded 100% Set Up Cost,

100% cost towards survey, 75% of SIP Fee with interest

holding that there was breach on the respondents' part as

they did not appoint the Expert Reviewer and Technical

Auditor within 90 days and 180 days respectively from the

effective date and failed to pay the claimants' bills in time. 27. The respondents' challenge to awarding of Set Up

Cost, cost towards Survey, SIP Fee, interest and rejection of

counter claim etc., are considered separately in the

succeeding paras in view of the directions issued by the

Division Bench of our Hon'ble High Court in Union of India

Vs M/s Warsaw Engineers & Anr. [COMAP No.25/2021 27 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

dated 17.04.2021 (DB)]. 28. SET UP COST: 29. Per Contra, Sri.T.Srinivasa Murthy appearing for the

claimants argues that the respondents never sought return

of the assets either in the counter claim or during the

arguments. In paras 33, 34, 58 to 61, 113, 115 and 116 of

the award the AT has considered in detail the claim for Set

up Cost; and concluded that the requirement of furnishing

Bank guarantee was waived as the respondents made part

payment of the invoices without insisting for the same.

Since the findings of the AT are based on appreciation of

evidence and facts, this court cannot interfere with the

same by re-appreciating the evidence. 30. The findings of the AT with regard to part payment of

the invoices amounts to waiver of the requirement to

furnish Bank Guarantee for the release of 50% of the Set up

Cost is based on appreciation of facts and evidence, the

same, as rightly argued by the learned counsel for the

claimants, cannot be interfered with U/s 34 of the Act. 31. The question for consideration is whether awarding of

the Set Up Cost, Pipe Asset Condition Assessment Fee,

Topography Survey Fee, Customer Survey Fee and Fee for

preparation of SIP, is based on evidence and in terms of the 29 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

Agreement? 32. SET UP COST: 33. Clause 5 of the Agreement makes it obligatory for the

claimants to procure all materials, equipments, supplies, of

the standard of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) /

International Standards Organization (ISO) and Clause

13.5.1 requires them to submit invoices for fixed fee every 30 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

month/ performance fee every quarter etc., to the Technical

Auditor for review and recommendation with evidence to

support its statement. 34. Clause 19 requires the claimants to maintain books of

accounts recording all receipts, income, expenditure,

payments, assets and liabilities in accordance with the

Agreement, good industry practice and the applicable laws;

to provide two copies of balance sheet, cashflow statement,

profit and loss account along with statutory auditor's report,

summarized information on O&M expenses, works contract

cost, Set up Cost, SIP fee, SOP fee etc. 35. In para 33 of the award, the AT refers to clauses 13.2.1

and payments to which the claimants are entitled to, as set

out in Schedule 12. In para 34, detailed break up of Start up

period cost as set out in the lead partner's bid document is

extracted to note that when the agreed exchange rate per

USD was Rs.66.7445, the claimants had submitted the

invoices for Rs.2,66,37,063/- at rate of Rs.67 per USD. 36. In para 61 of the award, the AT makes reference to the

observations of the Technical Auditor with regard to the

claimants not producing documents to establish 31 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

procurement of office equipment, operational equipment

etc., and the same was required to evaluate and certify.

Para 113 of the award makes a reference to the payments

already received by the claimants to be Rs.16,40,66,237/-. 37. Regarding the third installment of remaining 25%

payable on submission of Agreed SIP, the AT has concluded

that the same was payable on submission of SIP; the

claimants had submitted two draft SIP and there is nothing

like an Agreed SIP. The respondents can either agree with

the draft SIP submitted or to terminate the contract and

having terminated the contract they are liable to pay the

entire Set up Cost. 38. It is not in dispute that the 1 st claimant was an SPV

incorporated by the JV consortium to undertake

implementation of the project in accordance with the

Agreement including planning, study, survey, investigation,

design, detailed engineering, procurement, management

and overseeing the construction and rehabilitation works as

well as operation, maintenance and management of the

water supply system to provide water to the customers in

the service area; bulk supply arrangements within and 32 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

outside the service area as specified in Schedule 3 of the

Agreement r/w definition of "Services" under Clause 1 of the

Agreement. 39. During the Start Up Period, the 2 nd respondent was

responsible only to provide water supply services and to

collect charges in the service area and operate, maintain

and repair the facilities and to grant access to the claimants

to all facilities to study the management, operation and

maintenance of water supply system and to carry out

Comprehensive Assessment, in order to prepare the draft

Service Improvement Plan (SIP) and Advance Procurement

Plan (APP) and to carry out pre-transition activities. The

facilities in the service area was required to be handed over

to the claimants prior to the transition period, in accordance

with Transition Handover Plan (THP) as per Clause 3.2. 40. During this Period, the 1st claimant was responsible for

preparing THP, Comprehensive Assessment, SIP, Operation

and Maintenance Plan (O&MP), APP and other activities

(Clause 3 r/w Schedule 5 of the Agreement); to submit the

draft SIP and draft O&M Plan to the respondents and the

Expert Reviewer not later than 270 days from the Effective 33 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

Date. On review by the Expert Reviewer only if there were

no comments or suggestions, it would be treated as Agreed

SIP under Clause 3.4. 41. According to Cw1, the first draft SIP was submitted on

15.02.2017 i.e., on the 270th day from the effective date and

the Interim Expert Reviewer provided some comments on

the IIP submitted in January 2017; that IIP forms a part of

the SIP. The interim Expert Reviewer is admitted to have

attended the review meeting held on 23.02.2017 and

26.02.2017 and had discussion with the claimants' team at

his office in the month of March 2017. 42. Thus, when the claimants met the interim Expert

Reviewer in connection with IIP in March 2017 and he even

attended review meeting in February 2017, it is clear that

the Interim Expert Reviewer was in place as on the date of

submission of first draft SIP on 15.02.2017 and it is

pertinent to note that the claimants' do not dispute the

interim Expert Reviewer was not a qualified person. 43. Cw1 also admits that the first draft was rightly found

to be incomplete by the Expert Reviewer who came on

board on 26.04.2017. The lacunae were communicated to 34 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

the claimants by Ex.C35 and R50 and long before that the

Expert Reviewer was appointed. In the first draft SIP, the

transition period was mentioned as 4 years and in the

second draft SIP it was mentioned as 5 years, where as the

agreed transition period under Ex.C1/R1 was 3 years. 44. Cw1 has admitted in unequivocal terms that the

respondents informed the claimants bout both the draft SIPs

being incomplete; and the first step is the approval of the

SIP. Cw2 too states that the Expert Reviewer gave review

reports Ex.R69 and R70 (Ex.C191) with copy to the

claimants. Even in the 2nd report, the Expert reviewer had

opined that the comments in the earlier report was not

resolved and a lot of other data was missing. He too admits

that the approval of the SIP by the respondents has to be in

consultation with the Expert Reviewer and a third draft SIP

was submitted during the pendency of the arbitration

proceedings. 45. The breakup of Set up Cost as claimed by the

claimants and the dates on which the same fell due finds a

mention in para 114. Thus the above paras relied upon by

the claimants to sustain awarding of the Set up Cost do not 35 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

deal with the evidence on record. Paras 115 and 116 too do

not deal with the evidence adduced by the claimants with

regard to incurring expenses during the start up period for

acquiring equipment, assets etc. for carrying out their

obligations under the Agreement in terms of Clause 19,

such as audited accounts. 46. Cw2's evidence would reveal that they had sub

contracted the work of condition assessment of civil

structures (reservoir) to M/s Structcare Project, condition

assessment of water treatment plant M/s San Engineering,

condition assessment of electro mechanical equipments to

M/s Sunshubh Renewables, condition assessment existing

distribution network in Nehrunagar, Hubbali to M/s TWIC,

condition assessment of existing distribution network in

Police Head Quarters Dharwad to M/s Core Cabronex Ltd.,

the Topography Survey to Pune based M/s Chetak Engineers

etc. 47. It is not the claimants' case that they had produced

vouchers etc. evidencing payment to the sub-contractors for

mobilizing staff, office equipment like computers, printers

and furniture and operational equipment like flow meters, 36 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

loggers and vehicles. Even the impugned award, as

discussed earlier, does not reveal claimants' producing

documents to in support the claim for Set Up Cost. 48. In the above circumstances, the finding of the AT that

the first and second payment of the Set up Cost is not

dependent on the claimants furnishing any particulars to

the respondents is contrary to the Agreement and with

regard to the third installment, the finding that there is

nothing like an Agreed SIP is not only contrary to the

admissions of the claimants' witnesses Cw1 and Cw2 but

also contrary to Clause 3.4.1 of the Agreement. 49. CUSTOMER SURVEY: 50. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the

claimants argues that the AT has extensively analyzed the

evidence with regard to Customer Survey including the

short comings indicated by the Technical Auditor and the

subsequent joint verification in paras 49, 59 to 63, 80 to 84

and 88 of the award. The AT has also relied on the cross

examination of the witnesses and documents with respect

to conduct of Customer Survey to come to the conclusion

that the claimants had completed survey of 1.90 lakh

households as against total target of 2.23 lakh households.

The mismatch of data was later sorted out and it is not a

case of non completion of the survey and therefore, the

findings of the Arbitral Tribunal based on appreciation of

evidence cannot be found fault with. 51. Schedule 12 relating to payment of Customer Survey

fee is extracted here below for convenience: 50% and 75% of baseline estimates of number of
 customers: last installment payable on completion of
 the survey certified by the Technical Auditor. 38 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

and 100% was the milestone, as per Schedule 11, for

planning, detailed design, procurement, project

management utility systems installation, commissioning,

testing and commencing operations of the customer

database. 52. Further, the claimants had to undertake door to door

survey of all customers whether connected to the network

or not and obtain all details in regard to location, name,

address, mobile and landline telephone numbers, number of

resident members, status of billing and metering, economic

status/ socio-economic classification of households,

availability of water connection, water supply schedule and

actual timing, estimated consumption levels, alternate

water supply arrangements, method of disposal of

wastewater [Schedule 5 (4.1 and 4.2)]. 53. The Customer Survey included key details of all

customers in the category of general residential holdings

(independent housing, group housing connections and

apartments), urban households, government housing, non

domestic, commercial, institutional, religious places,

industrial and fire services and other category of customers

residing in the service area. The output from the Customer 39 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

survey had to be sufficient to validate and improve the

existing billing data and to integrate the customer data into

the GIS based customer management system. 54. As per the agreed terms, SIP had to include details of

customer connections, bulk water supply connections,

illegal connections, commercial practices including billing

and connections for further planning of infrastructure

improvement and service delivery improvement. 55. As discussed in Para 47 of the award the minutes of

the meeting Ex.C24 relating to the review meeting held on

26.02.2017 records about the claimants conducting survey

of 1.90 lakh households when the total target was 2.23 lakh

households. In para 61 refers to Technical Auditor's

observation with regard to mismatch in most of the

information furnished by the 1st claimant. Rw1 also spoke

about it and also to the effect that though the results of the

Customer Survey was incorrect, the claimants were

reluctant to rectify the same. 56. The Technical Auditor too has submitted the report to

the effect that out of 227613 customers having water

connection/water meter and RR number, Customer Survey 40 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

report covered only 129106 connections and out of this only

50% of data matched with actual RR numbers. Even

according to Cw2, customer data collection was sub

contracted to different agencies and RR number did not

match with the names of the persons having the water

connection; many of the address of the customers in the

survey report did not match with the actual address during

the joint verification held on 30.10.2017 by the claimants

and the Technical Auditor. 57. The letter dated 06.12.2017 of [EGIS India Consulting

Engineers Pvt. Ltd.] discloses that during joint verification

most of the information furnished by the claimants in the

Customer Survey data was mismatching and the claimants

failed to furnish the relevant records for having carried out

the survey in P1P1, P1P2 and demo zones as instructed

during the meeting held on 16.07.2017. 58. Even the comprehensive assessment report clearly

indicates that the Customer Survey was incomplete.

Therefore, I am of the opinion that the findings of the AT in

paras 117 and 118 that the joint verification was

undertaken and the Customer Survey data was matching, is 41 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

contrary to the evidence on record. Further awarding 100%

of the claim for customer survey fee when survey was

complete only to the extent of 50% is contrary to the terms

of the Agreement. 59. TOPOGRAPHY SURVEY: 60. Per contra, it is canvassed on behalf of the claimants

that para 47, 61, 63, 71, 80 to 84 of the award deal with the

documentary evidence on Topography Survey and in para

85, cross examination of the Expert Reviewer on this aspect

is discussed. Based on the evidence on record, the AT has

recorded its finding in para 19 and 20, that the respondents

did call upon claimants to take over the project and enter

into transition period even before approving the SIP and

without the Technical Auditor certifying the Topography 42 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

Survey and that it would show that the survey was

substantially complete. 61. The bid Schedule shows that Rs.1,30,33,576/- was

quoted for Topography Survey by the lead partner and as

per Schedule 12 this was payable in four equal installments

on completion of 25%, 50% and 75% of the baseline

estimates of Geographical Survey and the last installment

on completion of the survey, certified by the Technical

Auditor. Code No.2 of Schedule 1, Table 1 prescribes 100%

milestone for Topographical Survey map and Digital

elevation Model of the Survey area. 62. As seen from para 3.1 of Schedule 5, the claimants

had to undertake a detailed Topography Survey covering the

entire service area and existing infrastructure from the

source to the customer including those area within the

service area that are not provided with water supply. Such

survey data had to be sufficient to develop the SIP during

the Start Up period and to provide for development of a

comprehensive Geographical Information System (GIS)

during the transition period. Com.A.P.No.03/2022 63. As per para 3.2 of Schedule 5, the Topography survey

was bound to capture all key elevations with Geo reference

and all physical features such as roads, culverts, drains,

nalas, electrical transformers, trees, existing valve

chambers, sewer manholes and any other relevant features

which would affect installation and maintenance of existing

and/or new pipelines, pumping stations, service reservoirs.

The output from this survey was to be based on real on

ground fresh survey using Total Station Equipment and GPS

etc. and not by mere updating the available maps by

desktop digitization methods. 64. Even according to Cw2, the claimants were required to

furnish comprehensive assessment report including the

Topography and Infrastructure Survey Report.

Comprehensive customer survey report, Topography survey

and infrastructure survey report was absolutely necessary

for preparing the SIP. 65. The evidence discussed by the AT shows that the

Topographic Survey was completed in November 2016 and

the Expert Reviewer, during June 2017 observed that the

same was incomplete and several parameters to be 44 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

gathered from such survey was missing. As such it was

opined that there was a need for conducting Topography

Survey using high accuracy instruments like Global

Positioning System (GPS) and total station equipment. 66. Cw2's evidence during cross examination would show

that no resurvey was conducted after the Expert Reviewer

made the above observations in June 2017 and non

compliance was noted in the second report of the Expert

Reviewer, submitted in March 2018. Though it is stated to

have been resubmitted as Annexure to CAR, Cw2's answer

to question No.168 amply demonstrates that the claimants

took no steps to rectify the deficiencies but updated the

output of survey by incorporating the Expert Reviewer's

comments. Thus, the AT has ignored the vital evidence on

record to conclude that the claimants had taken steps to

rectify the deficiencies and Topography Survey was

complete. 67. PIPELINE ASSET CONDITION ASSESSMENT: 68. The AT, by considering the Expert Reviewer's

observation with regard to reasonableness of the claimants'

estimation, at the time of reviewing the second draft SIP,

has awarded Rs.1,61,06,513/- towards Pipeline Asset

Condition Assessment Cost as claimed. 69. Schedule 5 required the claimants to carry out a

comprehensive assessment of the existing water sources,

system assets and service delivery arrangements in the

service area, including but not limited to assessing the

condition and performance of existing assets such as raw

water intake, water treatment works, treated water

pumping and transmission means, service reservoirs and

water distribution system; and this was to form the basis for

SIP. As per Schedule 19 of the Agreement, condition

assessment of distribution networks and service pipes was

mandatory. Com.A.P.No.03/2022 70. Cw2 admits that the system assets includes pipes and

his evidence demonstrates that the assessment of hydraulic

capacity of the network included assessment of pipe size,

pipe length, pipe valves including the hydraulic network

model. The hydraulic network model included pipe network

analysis, assessment of pipeline, their length, size, capacity

etc; and the hydraulic capacity of the network was

assessed from hydraulic network models. Further, in order

to build hydraulic network model of the existing network,

survey and assessment of pipe size, length and pipe valves

and capacity is necessary and this could be carried out only

by survey using appropriate methodology. 71. It is seen from the records that the respondents

completed the network pipes work for providing 24x7 water

supply to 20km demo zone area in the year 2008 and

drawings pertaining to the same was with them. The entire

project area was 202 Sq.kms with water connections of over

1,36,000 and by letter dated 13.12.2017 the respondents

brought to the notice of the claimants about non fulfillment

of obligations pertaining to Pipe Condition Assessment. 47 Com.A.P.No.03/2022 72. That apart, when Cw2 has admitted in clear terms

that the Pipe Condition Assessment was not undertaken by

the claimants during during start up period, awarding of the

amount towards the said work is contrary to the Agreement.

The claimants' argument that the above amounts were

awarded based on appreciation of evidence and cannot be

interfered with, therefore, merits no consideration. 73. INTEREST: 74. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondents

argues that the claim for compound interest was rejected

and simple interest was granted after considering in detail

the contentions urged and the relevant clauses in the

Agreement; and there is nothing to strict the discretion of

the AT to grant pre and post award interest. In support of

the same, he relies upon the judgment in Morgan

Securities and Credits Pvt. Ltd. Vs Videocon 48 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

Industries Ltd. reported in 2022 SCC Online 1127. 75. Clause 13.8.1 of the Agreement is what the AT has

extracted in the award and relied upon to award interest.

This provides for interest for the delay in payment of

contract management fee / Utility Systems, in excess of 30

days at base rate of SBI, calculated weekly. But, Clause

13.7.1 r/w Schedule 12 shows that Contract Management

Fee/Utility Systems Fee are to be paid during the Transition

Period and not, Start Up Period. 76. When the parties consciously entered into Agreement,

agreeing that interest is payable only on Contract

Management Fee and Utility systems Fee which are payable

during transition period as per Clause 13.7.1, the findings of

the AT that the claimants are entitled to simple interest at

the prescribed rate from the expiry of one month from the

submission of Bills to the date of termination, is contrary to

the terms of the Agreement. 77. In Morgan Securities and Credits Pvt. Ltd. case

relied upon by the claimants, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

was considering the issue "whether the phrase 'unless the

award otherwise directs' in Section 31(7)(b) of the Act 49 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

provides the arbitrator the discretion to determine only the

rate of interest or both the rate of interest and the 'sum' it

must be paid against and not the question whether interest

can be awarded even in the absence of Agreement between

the parties. 78. However, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the case of

Union of India VS Manraj Enterprises reported in

(2022) 2 SCC 331, has made it clear that if there is no

agreement to pay interest, the arbitrator cannot award the

same by exercising discretion or to do justice. In the said

view of the matter and considering that the Agreement does

not provide for interest on delayed payments during the

Start Up Period, I am of the opinion that awarding of interest

by the AT is contrary to the Agreement. 79. SIP PREPARATION FEE: 80. The AT has concluded that there was breach on the

respondents' part in not appointing the Expert Reviewer and

Technical Auditor within the stipulated time and this

substantially contributed to the deficiencies in the

claimants' work which could otherwise have been avoided.

The AT has denied balance 25% on the ground that the SIP

is not approved and the said payment was subject to

approval. 81. Sri.Holla appearing for the respondents argues that

the SIP ought to have been based on surveys and CAR, but

the same was incomplete. The Expert Reviewer's evidence

with regard to incomplete surveys and reports of the

claimants, availability of interim Expert Reviewer, an

equally competent person to review the work of the

claimant till such time the Expert Reviewer was appointed,

are completely ignored by the AT. 82. Further, it was for the lead partner to appoint six key

operator personnel with experience and qualification as set 51 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

out in Schedule 8 of the Agreement within three days of the

Effective Date and to furnish the list to the respondents. But

the same was not done. The progress in the work was

affected by it and not because of any delay in appointing

the Expert Reviewer or the Technical Auditor. 83. Per contra, learned counsel for the claimants argues

that there was delay of nine month in appointing the Expert

Reviewer and more than nine months in appointing the

Technical Auditor. The finding of the AT that the

appointment of interim Expert Reviewer on 15.02.2017 did

not comply with the requirement of appointing the Expert

Reviewer and there was no provision for appointing interim

Expert Reviewer, is nothing but reasonable interpretation of

the contract. On account of such delay first draft SIP

prepared without guidance came to be rejected for lack of

detailed estimates and the findings of the AT in this behalf

should not be interfered with. 84. Even according to Cw2, the claimants did not

complete the surveys and submitted in complete reports

resulting in non acceptance of the draft SIP by the

respondent. The records reveal that a third draft SIP was 52 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

submitted by the claimants during the arbitration

proceedings. However, having regard to Schedule 12

prescribing payment of 75% of the amount on submission of

draft SIP, award of the same by the AT cannot be said to be

opposed to the terms of the Agreement or the evidence on

record, as sought to be argued by the respondents. 85. REJECTION OF COUNTER CLAIM: 86. It is also argued that, the AT has travelled beyond the

contract in concluding that the claimants were justified in

requesting for increase in the duration of Transition Period

from 3 to 5 years and that it did not amount to breach of

contract. As per Clause 23.1, the claimants were entitled to

payments only in the event of fulfilling their obligations and

the delay in execution of the work is attributable to the

claimants. As such the respondents were entitled to

liquidated damages in terms of Clause 3.7.1. But failure to

notice the same resulted in denial of liquidated damages

based on erroneous conclusion that it was not levied during

the subsistence of contract. Further, the vital evidence of

Cw2 that additional Rs.200 Crores was required for

completing the work is also ignored by the AT. 87. Sri.Holla, placing reliance on Notification No.12/2012

dated 17.03.2012 submits that when the Govt. of India has

exempted tax on services provided to government/local

authority and the same includes erection, construction,

maintenance, repair, alteration, renovation or restoration of

pipeline conduit or plant for drinking water supply, water

treatment, sewage treatment or disposal etc. and the

claimants failed to furnish proof of payment of service tax 54 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

on the amounts already paid, ought to have reduced

Rs.1,50,17,425/- from the amount awarded and deducted

Rs.2,13,99,944/- in respect of the payments already made. 88. Per contra, the learned counsel for the claimants

argues that the findings of the AT with regard to role of

Expert Reviewer and Technical Auditor, how they could have

helped the claimants to achieve maximum progress during

the Star up period, if appointed within the stipulated time,

are all matter of evidence and interpretation of clauses in

the Agreement. Unless, such interpretation is found to be

palpably unreasonable and erroneous, this court should not

interfered with the findings of the AT. Even the counter

claim for liquidated damages has been extensively dealt

with by the AT; and the respondents are trying to introduce

new case without raising the issue of service tax before the

AT. This Notification did not apply to the planning stage of

the water projects at its commencement but it applied to

the projects that were under construction and already in

use. The Transition Period could commence only if the

parties agreed on investment amount - CAPEX and Utility

System Envelope, the SIP and terms of transition and

therefore, the AT has rightly concluded that the claimants 55 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

were justified in seeking extension of Transition Period and

suggesting amendment to CAPEX Envelope. 89. Even at the cost of repetition it is released to note

that, during the Start Up period the claimants had to

undertake key activities like preparation of THP for taking

over the operation and maintenance of the facilities

immediately on conclusion of the said period; preparation of

a comprehensive assessment of capacity, condition and

performance of existing infrastructure and service delivery

arrangements; preparation and implementation of APP

detailing the pre-transition activity; preparation of SIP

describing how they will improve the infrastructure and

service delivery in a cost effective and sustainable manner

to meet service standards; preparation of operation and

maintenance plan; preparation of environmental and social

assessment including plan for SIP in line with environmental

code of practice of the Agreement; obtaining relevant

permits that they needed to take over the operation and

maintenance of facilities and to implement APP; preparation

of communication plan, detailing the communication

activities to be undertaken during the start up and transition

periods and implementation of start up period activities. 56 Com.A.P.No.03/2022 90. The Expert Reviewer, as per Clause 17, was an

independent third party to be appointed by the respondents

to perform the role as enlisted in Schedule 15. He was

required to provide service to all parties under the

Operations agreement during the start up and transition

period in relation to THP, APP, O&M plan, the SIP, to review

the draft of the same and to provide professional

assessment of reasonableness of the draft in terms of

meeting the contract objectives. He was expected to work

in collaboration with the parties to bring them to agreed SIP,

O&M plan, THP and APP. Therefore, as per the terms of the

Agreement, Expert Reviewer was not expected to work

along with the claimants in the preparation of various

reports but it was for the claimants to do the ground work

and submit the same for the review of Expert Reviewer

[Schedule 5]. 91. The Technical Auditor is also an independent third

party to monitor compliance of the obligations under the

Agreement by the claimants. During the start up period, he

was required to participate in review meetings of SIP, APP

and THP, to provide comments from the perspective of plan

monitoring, to provide assistance to Expert Reviewer for 57 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

undertaking field verification and to ensure that all design

work fully complies with the relevant standards; to assist

the respondents to approve location of critical measurement

points proposed by the claimants in the distribution

network; scrutinize the invoices raised by the claimants or

the works contractor for the work done and recommend to

the respondents. 92. The Agreement speaks about the claimants obligation

to maintain six key personnel during the start up and

transition period as set out in Schedule 8 i.e. General

Manager, Operations Manager, Finance Manager,

DMA/Leakage Manager, Capital Works Manager, Customer

Service Manager, within three business days from the

Effective Date and to provide the list to the respondents

including the names of members of the transition team

(Clause 3.3.1). 93. The General Manager was to required to have proven

experience in managing water utility, to provide continuous

water supply including all managerial, technical, financial

and commercial matters covering planning, operation and

maintenance of water supply services as well as 58 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

management and implementation of major water supply

service improvement capital program . 94. The Operations Manager was required to have

experience in, operation and maintenance of water supply

service delivery from source to tap and proven skills in the

area of water production planning and demand

management; water distribution planning and service

delivery; non revenue water control; customer management

and public relations; human resource management;

management information system; and standard operating

procedures and emergency response. 95. The Finance Manager was required to have

experience in water and other utility financial management

with demonstrated experience in financial planning and

preparation of budgets; business planning, forecasting and

regular financial monitoring; procurement and investment

planning; financial management and cost control; tax

planning and compliance; public finance and statutory

compliance. 96. DMA/Leak Manager was required to have experience in

design and implementation of leakage reduction schemes 59 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

and experience of working in water supply sector of any

developing country with proven experience and skill in

continuous water audit program, development and

implementation of non revenue water reduction program;

IWA methodology of assessing water loss and economic

level of leakage; developing and updating water loss

reduction strategy; flow and pressure management; data

logging and processing, management and monitoring;

appropriate technology for leak detection; and robust leak

repair practices and response time. 97. The capital works manager was to implement annual

capital works program in water supply infrastructure

improvement work including organization and management

of the site supervision team, contract administration, cost

control, quality assurance and quality control, approval of

construction procedures and materials. 98. The Customer Service Manager was required to have

practical experience as commercial manager of any public

utility services preferably water supply, electricity or gas

services with demonstrated experience in customer service

management; providing new connection and managing 60 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

existing connections; meter reading, data management and

processing; preparation and delivery of bills; revenue

collection and debt management; customer call and

complaint management; public relations and

communications; target setting and forecasting. 99. From the evidence adduced by the claimants, it is seen

that certain Mr.Musa held two positions as General Manager

and Operations Manager; Ms.Mitra was the Financial

Manager but she was replaced with another person. Though

Mr.Matheen did not have minimum required qualification, he

was initially appointed as the General Manager just because

he happened to participate in a number of meetings in that

capacity. The respondents even addressed letters

questioning the qualification of Mr.Musa. 100. Even according to Cw2, the objective of appointment

of key operator personnel was to fulfill the requirements

under Schedule 5 of the Agreement. Therefore it was for the

key operator personnel to guide the claimants in fulfilling

the requirements under Schedule 5 of the Agreement. The

Expert Reviewer and the Technical Auditor's role would

commence only thereafter and they had to review and 61 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

provide comments on the various plans prepared and

submitted by the claimants. The delay in appointment of

Expert Reviewer and Technical Auditor therefore, cannot be

taken advantage by the claimants and to this extent, the AT

has interpreted the terms of the Agreement unreasonably. 101. Likewise, from the letters addressed by the

respondents calling upon the claimants to rectify the

defects in the survey reports and produced before the AT, it

is noticed that the respondents had cautioned the claimants

with regard to liquidated damages if they failed to comply

with the demand and the terms of the Agreement.

Therefore, the finding that liquidated damages was not

insisted upon during the subsistence of the contract is

contrary to the documentary evidence on record. 102. In para 155 of the award the AT has discussed at

length that the draft SIP was not approved and the

respondents terminated the contract by notice dated

05.10.2018 because they could not reach consensus on the

investment amount; and the CAPEX and Utility System

Envelope in the draft SIP exceeded the limit prescribed

under the agreement; that there was disagreement with 62 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

regard to conditions relating to transition. 103. The respondents relies upon various judgments in

support of the argument that Exemption Notification should

be liberally construed and has produced Notification 12/12

dated 17.03.2012 whereby the Govt. of India has exempted

the services provided to Govt. or local authority by way of

erection, construction, maintenance, repair, alteration,

renovation or restoration of pipeline, conduit or plant for

drinking water supply, water treatment and sewerage

treatment or disposal from the whole of the service tax

leviable under Sec.66B of the Finance Act. 104. No doubt, the contract was for erection, repair and

maintenance etc. of the pipeline for drinking water supply

but as rightly argued by the learned counsel for the

claimants, they were still at the stage of providing

consultancy services and not moved into the stage of

erection, construction, maintenance etc. 105. That apart, this issue was not even brought up by the

respondents either during arbitration proceedings or

arguments. Under such circumstances and having regard to

the ratio in Delhi Airport Metro Pvt. Ltd. case cited 63 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

supra, that every error of law by the AT would not fall

within the expression "patent illegality", I am of the opinion

that there is no merit in the respondents' arguments in this

behalf. 106. In para 156 all the relevant clauses are considered by

the AT with regard to termination notice under Clause

21.1.1, clause 20.4 enabling the respondents to seek

compensation for overrun cost due to breach committed by

the claimants together with clauses 3.4.4, 3.4.8 and 3.8.5 to

conclude that clause 20.4 should be read with clause 3; that

if the claimants failed to complete the start up period work,

the respondents could complete the same at the risk and

cost of the claimants. Considering that the agreement was

not terminated for failure of the claimants to perform the

obligations during start up period, the AT has concluded

that the respondents are not entitled for overrun cost. This

in my considered opinion cannot be interfered with as the

respondents have failed to demonstrate that such

interpretation is erroneous and unreasonable. 107. For the foregoing reasons, I am of the considered

opinion that the findings of the AT in arriving at the 64 Com.A.P.No.03/2022

conclusion to award Set Up Cost, customer survey fee,

Topography Survey Fee, Pipeline Asset Condition

Assessment Fee and denying liquidated damages to the

respondents are contrary to the terms of contract and the

evidence on record. More so, when there is no evidence to

justify the claim of Set Up Cost. Likewise, awarding of

interest is also contrary to the Agreement. The point for

consideration is therefore answered in the affirmative. 108. Point No.3: From the discussion on Point No.2, it is

clear that awarding of Set Up Cost is based on no evidence

and contrary to the Agreement. Similarly, the conclusions of

the AT resulting in granting the claim for Pipeline Asset

Condition Assessment Fee, Topography Survey Fee and

Customer Survey Fee, are arrived at by ignoring vital

evidence as also the terms of contract. It is well established

that an award not in accordance with the contract is in

gross contravention of Sec.28(3) of the Act. Therefore, I am

of the opinion that the impugned award is liable to be set

aside U/s 34 of the Act, as prayed. 109. Point No.4: In the result, I pass the following: 65