Smt. Kiran Sibal, Member
 Present:- ............................................
 J.S. KLAR, PRESIDING JUDICIAL MEMBER :- 2. The complainant filed the complaint U/s 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (in short, "the Act") against OPs on

the averments that she purchased insurance policy (Elite Advantage

Plan) (Yearly Mode) bearing No.5013371033 on 30.06.2015 from

OP No.2 and paid premium of Rs.50,000/- (Rs.52,000/- with tax). It

was assured to her that the original policy documents would be sent

to her very soon and on receipt of the same, 15 days free look period

would be provided to her for her final consent. The complainant

further averred that till date the alleged policy's terms and conditions

and documents have not been received by her. She moved 2-3

written complaints to the OPs in this regard, but to no effect. When

she approached OP no.2 in this regard, it transpired that the policy

had been dispatched to her through Blue Dart Express Ltd., courier

service by OPs. On enquiring from the said courier service, it was

disclosed that as per record of the courier service, the alleged policy

was received by complainant. After going through the delivery detail,

complainant became astonished that her signature on the above

delivery details have been forged, from which it transpired that the

OPs in connivance with the officials of the courier service had played

fraud with her. She served a legal notice dated 09.12.2015 upon the First Appeal No.351 of 2018 3 OPs requesting them to cancel the policy and to refund her amount

of Rs.52,000/-, but to no effect. The complainant alleged deficiency

in service and unfair trade practice on the part of OPs. The

complainant prayed that OPs be directed to cancel the aforesaid

policy and to refund the amount of Rs.52,000/- alongwith interest

@18% per annum to her from the date of policy till its actual

payment; to pay Rs.30,000/- as compensation for causing mental

agony and physical harassment to her; further to pay Rs.5,000/-as

cost of litigation expenses and also to grant any other relief which

this Forum may deems appropriate. 3. Upon notice, OPs appeared and filed written reply by

raising preliminary objections that the complaint is false, frivolous,

vexatious and an abuse of the process of law only. The complainant

has no cause of action against the OPs. The complaint is alleged to

be bad for non joinder of Blue Dart Express Limited, against whom

the complainant has leveled the allegations. This Forum has no

jurisdiction to entertain the present complaint. The complainant has

pleaded forgery and fraud, which matter can only be decided by a

civil court and hence complaint is liable to be dismissed. The

complaint was contested by OPs even on merits by averring that that

the policyholder submitted a duly filled up and signed customer

declaration form alongwith proposal for insurance. After receipt of

duly filled in proposal form alongwith other requisite documents and

the amount of first year premium deposit, they issued the policy in

question. The complainant had also submitted a benefit illustration First Appeal No.351 of 2018 4 after fully understanding the terms and conditions of the policy. In

accordance with Clause 6(2) of the Insurance Regulatory and

Development Authority (Protection of Policy Holder's Interests)

Regulations, 2002, every policy document sent by it is accompanied

by a forwarding letter by mentioning that in case policyholder is not

satisfied with the features of the terms and conditions of the policy,

he can withdraw/return the policy within 15 days i.e. under the "Free

Look Period" provision. In the present case, a copy of proposal form

alongwith policy documents were duly dispatched and delivered to

complainant, vide Blue Dart AWB No.33361276535, but she did not

return the same to the OPs during the free-look period. The

complainant raised certain matters with respect to her policy only,

which were addressed vide letter dated 21 October, 2015. Any

deficiency in service and unfair trade practice was denied on their

part by OPs in the written reply. OPs prayed for dismissal of the

complaint. 4. The complainant tendered in evidence Ex.C-A her

affidavit alongwith copies of documents Ex.C-1 to C-6 and closed the

evidence. As against it, OPs tendered in evidence Ex.OP-A affidavit

of Smt. Sunita Yadav, Associate Manager, Legal Bharti AXA LIC,

alongwith copies of documents Ex.OP-1 to OP-5 and closed the

evidence. On conclusion of evidence and arguments, the District

Forum quo accepted the complaint of the complainant, as referred to

above. Aggrieved by above order of the District Forum below, the

OPs now appellants have directed this appeal against the same. First Appeal No.351 of 2018 5 5. We have heard the learned counsel for the appellants

and respondent Pushpinder Pal Kaur in person and have also

examined the record of the case. The counsel for the appellants

argued that IRDA regulation dated 16.02.2013 as applied by the

District Forum in this case in granting relief to the complainant is not

applicable in this case. The said regulation of IRDA is for Unit Linked

policies, whereas the policy in question is Elite Advantage Plan,

which is not a unit linked insurance plan, but an endowment plan

only. The terms and conditions of policy reveal the benefit payable

under the policy including death benefit and maturity benefit. The

complainant paid only one premium and thereafter stopped making

further payments of the premiums under the policy. The terms and

conditions of contract of insurance have to be interpreted strictly,

which has not been done by the District Forum in this case. The OPs

sent the policy's terms and conditions to complainant/insured with

copy of proposal form giving her opportunity to cancel the policy

under free look period clause. On the other hand, respondent in

appeal Pushpinder Pal Kaur in person being complainant in the

complaint submitted that the above regulation dated 16.02.2013 has

been rightly applied by the District Forum in this case, where under,

she has been found entitled to the surrender value. The clause 13(vi)

of said Regulation is reproduced as under: Rs.3000/- 2. Lower of 15% (AP or Lower of 4% (AP or FV/ policy

 FV/Policy account value) account value) subject to a

 subject to a maximum of maximum of Rs.5000/- Rs.2000/- 3. Lower of 10% (AP or Lower of 3% (AP or FV/ policy

 FV/Policy account value) account value) subject to a

 subject to a maximum of maximum of Rs.4000/- Rs.1500/- 4. Lower of 5% (AP or FV/Policy Lower of 2% (AP or FV/ policy

 account value) subject to a account value) subject to a

 maximum of Rs.1000/- maximum of Rs.2000/- 5. and onwards Nil Nil

AP-Annualized Premium

FV- Fund Value

b. Provided that where a policy is discontinued, only discontented charge and fund management

charge, which shall not exceed 50 bps per annum on discontinuance fund/policy account value,

as applicable, may be levied by the insurer and no other charges by whatsoever name shall be

levied. c. Provided that no discontinuance charges shall be imposed on top-ups premiums."

We have also perused clause 2 of this regulation, which makes it

clear that linked insurance products shall be offered only under non-

par individual products and non-par fund based group products in

any of the following manner: The District Forum has thus, applied this Regulation erroneously in

this case. 6. The next controversy in this case between the parties is

as to whether complainant received the terms and conditions of

policy, so as to accept the contract of insurance on her part or not.

The offer of the contract of insurance is accepted when the proposer

accepts the acceptance from the proposed. In the case in hand, the

complainant has deposed in her deposition Ex.C-A that policy's

terms and conditions were never delivered to her. She has also

specifically pleaded this fact on the record. She sent legal notice

Ex.C-2 to OPs supported by postal receipts Ex.C-3 and C-4 in this

regard. She alleged the signatures on Ex.C-5 to be not her

signatures. On the other hand, OP have clearly stated in the affidavit

of Sunita Yadav, Associate Manager-Legal of OPs Ex.OP-A that the

terms and conditions of policy were sent to her through blue dart

courier, but complainant failed to exercise the free look period option

within time. The complainant herself placed on record photostat copy

of receipt issued by Blue Dart Courier Service Ex.C-5 containing the

signature of Pushpinder Pal Kaur. She has alleged this signature to

be forged. It is settled principle of law that where forgery is involved, First Appeal No.351 of 2018 8 the Consumer Forum lays its hand off the controversy and relegates

the parties to competent Civil Court for determination of the dispute.

Elaborate evidence is required for deciding the controversy as to

whether this signature on Blue Dart Courier receipt of complainant is

genuine or forged and it would entail examination of documents

expert, other witnesses involving their cross-examination also. The

question of forgery cannot be decided in summary proceedings by

the Consumer Forum. The entire controversy is based on this point

as to whether the signature of complainant on Ex.C-5 is genuine or

forged one. The complainant has alleged this signature to be forged

one. On the other hand, OPs have stated that terms and conditions

of policy were supplied to complainant and she has intentionally not

impleaded Blue Dart Courier as a party in this case. We find that

since there are allegations of forged signatures on receipt of Blue

Dart Courier Ex.C-5 of complainant and as such this is a proper

case, where parties should be relegated to competent Civil Court for

determination of dispute. 7. As a result of our above discussion, the appeal of the

appellant is accepted by setting aside the order of the District Forum

Patiala dated 23.04.2018 and by leaving the complainant to seek the

redressal of her grievance from competent Civil Court. 8. The appellants had deposited the amount of Rs.25,000/-

in this Commission at the time of filing the appeal and further

deposited Rs.21,000/- in compliance with order of this Commission.

These amounts alongwith interest, which accrued thereon, if any, be First Appeal No.351 of 2018 9 remitted to the appellant of this appeal by way of demand

draft/crossed cheque after the expiry of 45 days. 9. Arguments in this appeal were heard on 20.08.2018 and

the order was reserved. Certified copies of the order be

communicated to the parties as per rules. 10. The appeal could not be decided within the statutory

period due to heavy pendency of court cases.