Gujarat Police have arrested three individuals from Punjab for illegally streaming JioHotstar’s premium content through an Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) platform called BOS IPTV. According to a press release issued by JioHotstar, the accused were offering access to copyrighted content for as little as Rs 400 for a three-month subscription.

The streaming giant estimates the value of the pirated content to be Rs 700 crore. Cybercrime police have confiscated three laptops and two mobile phones during a raid in Jalandhar, Punjab. The press statement revealed that investigative agencies suspect a broader international piracy syndicate.

The arrested individuals reportedly obtained set-top boxes (STBs) from legitimate DTH providers and then manipulated them to bypass content protections. These tampered devices were then used to access and rebroadcast JioHotstar’s premium content illegally via BOS IPTV.

According to the FIR registered on May 14, the accused have been charged under Sections 303, 318(4), and 61 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) 2023, along with Sections 37, 51, 63, and 65A of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957, and Sections 65, 66, 66B, and 66D of the Information Technology Act, 2000.

These sections deal with copyright infringement, broadcast reproduction rights, theft, cheating, tampering with computer source documents, and dishonestly receiving stolen computer data.

IPTV is a service that provides access to television programmes via the internet, unlike traditional cable TV, which functions through satellite signals.

In similar cases, if pirates use either a physical or virtual set-top box, there is no way to detect the source from which the pirated content originally originated, according to a report by LiveMint .

To combat piracy, broadcasters are urging TRAI to implement forensic watermarking in smarter set-top boxes to trace illegal streams. This technique embeds a unique, session-specific code into the content’s metadata, making it extremely difficult to remove or tamper with without detailed knowledge of the watermark’s pattern.

It is done for each and every user so that you (streaming company) can, by looking at the video or running that video through the system, can identify who the end user is.” – Pankaj Gupta, Director of Synamedia .

Piracy isn’t just a tech or legal issue—it’s an economic threat. According to an EY report , 51% of Indian consumers access content from pirated sources. “The Rob Report,” jointly released by EY and the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI), estimated the size of India’s piracy economy at Rs 22,400 crore in 2023.

Since this activity happens illegally, the estimated loss to the industry through Goods and Services Tax (GST) is up to Rs 4,300 crore. India has one of the highest piracy rates in the world, noted Mukul Shrivastava from the consulting firm.

Convenient access to rogue sites and tight-knit pirate communities on Telegram and WhatsApp help perpetuate piracy. For instance, in April, Star India discovered a WhatsApp group named ‘BOSTV’ with 617 members offering access to 8,500 live TV channels, 29,000 movies, and around 3,000 web series.

These communities swiftly adapt when government agencies ban domains by simply shifting to proxy IP addresses.

Therefore, it is crucial to adopt advanced forensic watermarking techniques not just for internet-based IPTV and OTT platforms, but also across D2H and cable TV ecosystems.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event