% 19.07.2024

 CRL.M.A. 20736/2024 (for exemption) 1. Exemptions allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present petition is filed seeking quashing FIR No.
 256/2019 dated 14.07.2019, registered at Police Station Vijay
 Vihar, for offences under Sections 354 / 323 / 509 / 34 of the Indian
 Penal Code, 1860 (' IPC '). The FIR was registered on a
 complaint made by Respondent No. 2. Chargesheet has been
 filed in the present case under Sections 354B / 323 / 509 / 34 of the
 IPC. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:20 4. It is averred that the parties are family members and
 marriage was solemnized between the Respondent No. 2 and the
 son of petitioners on 18.02.2011. 5. It is alleged that an altercation took place between the
 parties where the petitioners had allegedly outraged the modesty
 of Respondent No.2 and abused her. It is alleged that the
 petitioners had also threatened Respondent No.2. 6. The learned counsel for the petitioners submits that with
 the intervention of the relatives and well-wishers, the parties
 have resolved their disputes. 7. He submits that the petitioners have also unconditionally
 apologized for their conduct and undertaken not to indulge into
 any such activity in future. 8. The present petition has been filed on the ground that the
 parties have amicably settled all their disputes by way of a
 Memorandum of Understanding-cum-Compromise Deed dated
 05.03.2022, on their own free will, without any fear or pressure
 or coercion. In terms of the settlement, the parties have agreed
 that they will approach and appear before this Court seeking
 quashing of FIR No. 256/2019. 9. The parties are present in Court and have been duly
 identified by the Investigating Officer. 10. The complainant/ Respondent No. 2, on being asked, states
 that she has accepted the apology of the petitioners and has
 decided to live peacefully and amicably in future. 11. She states that she does not wish to pursue the proceedings
 arising out of the present FIR and she has no objection if the
 proceedings arising out of the present FIR are quashed. She
 states that the pendency of the proceedings is only causing
 harassment. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:20 12. The parties state that they have settled their disputes
 amicably and they have decided to maintain cordial relations
 with each other hereon. The parties are bound down to the said
 statement. 13. Offence under Sections 323 and 509 of the IPC are
 compoundable whereas offences under Section 354 of the IPC is
 non-compoundable. 14. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 482 of the CrPC can compound offences
 which are non-compoundable under the Code on the ground that
 there is a compromise between the accused and the complainant.
 The Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down parameters and
 guidelines for High Court while accepting settlement and
 quashing the proceedings. In the case of Narinder Singh & Ors.
 v. State of Punjab & Anr. : (2014) 6 SCC 466, the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court had observed as under :- This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:21
 29.2. When the parties have reached the
 settlement and on that basis petition for
 quashing the criminal proceedings is filed, the
 guiding factor in such cases would be to
 secure: While exercising the power the High Court is
 to form an opinion on either of the aforesaid
 two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in
 those prosecutions which involve heinous and
 serious offences of mental depravity or
 offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such
 offences are not private in nature and have a
 serious impact on society. Similarly, for the
 offences alleged to have been committed
 under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by
 public servants while working in that capacity
 are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases
 having overwhelmingly and predominantly
 civil character, particularly those arising out
 of commercial transactions or arising out of
 matrimonial relationship or family disputes
 should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among
 themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High
 Court is to examine as to whether the
 possibility of conviction is remote and bleak
 and continuation of criminal cases would put
 the accused to great oppression and prejudice
 and extreme injustice would be caused to him
 by not quashing the criminal cases." (emphasis supplied) 15. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors. v. State
 of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the Hon'ble Supreme
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:21
 Court had observed as under :- "16. The broad principles which emerge from
 the precedents on the subject, may be
 summarised in the following propositions: 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or
 first information report should be quashed on
 the ground that the offender and victim have
 settled the dispute, revolves ultimately on the
 facts and circumstances of each case and no
 exhaustive elaboration of principles can be
 formulated. 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section
 482 and while dealing with a plea that the
This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:21
 dispute has been settled, the High Court must
 have due regard to the nature and gravity of
 the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as
 murder, rape and dacoity cannot
 appropriately be quashed though the victim or
 the family of the victim have settled the
 dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact
 upon society. The decision to continue with
 the trial in such cases is founded on the
 overriding element of public interest in
 punishing persons for serious offences.
 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences,
 there may be criminal cases which have an
 overwhelming or predominant element of a
 civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing
 insofar as the exercise of the inherent power to
 quash is concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which
 arise from commercial, financial, mercantile,
 partnership or similar transactions with an
 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate
 situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash
 the criminal proceeding if in view of the
 compromise between the disputants, the
 possibility of a conviction is remote and the
 continuation of a criminal proceeding would
 cause oppression and prejudice; and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle
 set out in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above.
 Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the State have
 implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The
 High Court would be justified in declining to
 quash where the offender is involved in an
 activity akin to a financial or economic fraud
 or misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic
 system will weigh in the balance." (emphasis supplied)

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:22 16. It is pertinent to note that the parties are family members
 and the unfortunate incident was the result of a long-standing
 dispute between the parties in relation to family discord. It is
 stated that the parties have amicably resolved their disputes
 voluntarily and Respondent No.2 has also accepted the
 unconditional apology tendered by the petitioners. Respondent
 No.2 has also explicitly stated that she does not wish to pursue
 the proceedings arising out of the present FIR. In such a case, in
 the opinion of this Court, continuation of the proceedings would
 only cause ill will to fester between the parties and undue
 harassment to the complainant. 17. Keeping in view the nature of dispute and the fact that the
 parties have amicably settled the dispute, this Court feels that no
 useful purpose would be served by keeping the dispute alive and
 continuance of the proceedings would amount to abuse of the
 process of Court. I am of the considered opinion that it is a fit
 case where discretionary jurisdiction can be exercised and the
 proceedings are quashed. 18. In view of the above, FIR No. 256/2019 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed. 19. The petition is allowed in aforesaid terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JULY 19, 2024
 "SS" This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 09/08/2024 at 21:13:22