Order No. C.A.V.: 28.09.2022 Date of order: 25.11.2022 05. 1. This matter is taken up through Hybrid Arrangement (Virtual
 /Physical Mode). 2. Heard Mr. Siddharth Luthra, learned Senior Advocate along
 with Mr. H.K. Mund, Advocate for the Petitioner and Mr. G.
 Agarwal, learned Special Counsel appearing for the Enforcement
 Department. Perused the records and materials placed before this
 court for consideration. 3. At the outset, the following precious words of Justice
 T.S.Thakur (former Judge, Supreme Court of India) expressed in the
 case of in Babubhai Bhimabhai Bokhiria vrs. State of Gujarat
 reported in (2013) 9 SCC 500, which redefined the criminal justice
 system in this Country, reverberates in the mind of this Court i.e.
 "The essence of Article 21 of the Constitution of India lies not only in
 ensuring that no citizen is deprived of life and personal liberty
 except according to the procedure established by law, but also such
 // 2 //

procedure ensures both fairness and expeditious conclusion of the
trial." Therefore, it is apt to begin this judgment by prefacing it with Article 21 of the Constitution of India which states that no person
shall be deprived of his right or his personal liberty except according
to the procedure established by law. 4. A Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in land
mark case of A.K. Gopalan vrs. State of Madras ; reported in (1950)
SCC 228. In paragraph-9 of the judgment has stated that "it cannot
be disputed that the Article collected under the captioned (Right to
Freedom) have to consider together to appreciate the extent of the
fundamental rights. In the first place, it is necessary to notice that
there is distinction between the rights given to citizens and persons.
This is clear of perusal of the provision of Article 19 on the one hand
and Articles 20 , 21 and 22 on the other. In order to determine
whether the right to abrize or infringe, it is first necessary to
determine the extent the right given by Articles and the limitations
prescribed in the Articles themselves permitting its curtailment. The
inclusion of Article 13(1) and (2) in the Constitution appears to be a
matter of abundant. Even in their absence, if any of the fundamental
rights was ensuring by any legislation enactment, the Court has
always the power to declare the enactment, to the extent it is
transgresses the limit, validity. The existence of Article 13(1) and 13(2) in the Constitution, therefore, is not material for the decision
on the question of the fundamental right is given and to what extent
it is permitted to be abrize by the Constitution itself." 5. In the case at hand, the accused petition has sought for pre-
arrest bail in connection with complaint case (PMLA No.40 of 2018)
arising out ECIR No.01/2014/BSZO at Bhubaneswar Sub-zonal
 // 3 //

office of the Enforcement Directorate pending before the court of
leaned Special Judge, Special Court, PMLA, Bhubaneswar. The
complaint which was lodged by the Enforcement Directorate
involves allegation which comes under the prevention of Money
Laundering Act, 2002 Act. A case has been registered for the alleged
commission of offence under Section 3 read with Section 4 of the
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to
as " PMLA Act "). Since the petitioner apprehends arrest by E.D., he
has approached this Court nu filing the anticipatory bail application
under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 6. Before delving into the facts of the case in detail, this Court
deems it proper to highlight the validity of the aforesaid legislation,
namely, PMLS Act, 2002. It is pertinent to mention here that the
Constitution validity of PMLA Act shall put to test in the case of
Bijay Madanlal Choudhury and others vrs. Union of India in
Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No.3634 of 2014 and a batch of
other similar cases which were disposed of by Hon'ble Supreme
Court vide judgment dated 27.07.2022. The question that was
involved and required adjudication by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
the above noted case was with regard to the pleas concerning validity
and interpretation of certain provision of PMLA Act, 2002 and the
procedure followed by the Enforcement Directorate while enquiring
into/investigating of offence under the PMLA Act , being violative of
the Constitution mandate. The Hon'ble Supreme Court after taking
note of the facts of the cases and by referring to various judgments
finally come to a conclusion which has been reflected in Paragraph-
187 of the aforesaid judgment. Although the review has been
preferred before the Hon'ble Supreme Court against the judgment
 // 4 //

dated 27.07.2022 in the case of Bijay Madanlal Choudhury and
others vrs. Union of India(supra), this Court while considering the
present bail application shall have to keep in mind the conclusion as
has been reflected in Paragraph-187 of the aforesaid judgment. 7. Reverting back to the facts of the present case, it is imperative
to know exact sequence of events by going back in time. From the
facts are available on record, it appears that, the petitioner herein is
Director of M/s. Sneha Marketing Ltd. And M/s. Deepak Steel and
Power Ltd. The gravamen of the complaints against the petitioner
arises from the alleged fact that he was illegally raised
iron/manganese ores of a higher value than what has been declared
from the Ulliburu Mining Lease area apart from the allegation
illegally raising mineral from areas adjacent minor mining lease
areas and selling such minerals to his own concern thereby causing
huge loss of revenue to the State exchequer. 8. Records placed before this Court reveals that initially Balasore
Vigilance P.S. Case No. 30 of 2013 was registered against the
Petitioner and various other persons for the aforementioned illegal
mining and making liable for commission of alleged offences under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(c)(d) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 (hereafter ' PC Act '), Sections 420, 409, 379,
411 read with Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
(hereafter ' IPC ') Section 4 and 21(1) of the Mines and Mineral
(Development and Regulation Act, 1957 (hereafter ' MMDR Act ')
and Section 3 of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. The learned
Special Judge (Vigilance), Keonjhar took cognizance of the offences
and registered T.R. Case No. 01 of 2014 (V.G.R. Case No. 05 of
2013). The Petitioner was arrested and was in judicial custody for the
 // 5 //

same since 05.09.2013. The preliminary charge-sheet was filed on
31.12.2013 and the final charge-sheet was filed on 24.06.2014. The
Petitioner is facing trial in the Court of the Special Judge
(Vigilance), Keonjhar having been charged for offences punishable
under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(c)(d) of the PC Act and
Sections 420, 409, 379, 411, 468 read with Section 120-B of the IPC.
Although the trial has commenced, but the same is still continuing
and nobody knows as to when the same will be completed. After
multiple bail applications and a lapse of almost about seven years,
keeping in mind the time the Petitioner was already in judicial
custody, the completion of investigation and him being in custody
for the maximum punishment possible under most of the Sections he
was charged with, this Court vide it's order dated 28.09.2020 in
BLAPL No. 1042 of 2020 was pleased to grant him interim bail,
which was further confirmed and made final by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court vide it's order dated 31.01.2022 in SLP (Crl.) No.
5544 of 2020. At present the Petitioner is enlarged on bail. 9. In the instant bail application under section 438 Cr.P.C., this
Court, however, is not concerned with the aforementioned T.R. Case
No. 01 of 2014, but with the proceedings emanating from ECIR No.
01/2014/BSZO at Bhubaneswar Sub-Zonal Offices of Enforcement
Directorate corresponding to Complaint Case (PMLA) No. 40 of
2018 for alleged offences under Section 3 r/w Section 4 of the
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereafter 'PMLA'), Section13(2) read with Section 13(1)(c)(d) of the PC Act and
Sections 420, 411 read with Section 120-B of the IPC and for which
the present Petitioner has been constrained to approach this Court
vide the present petition seeking anticipatory bail to secure his
 // 6 //

liberty and freedom as guaranteed under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. 10. It appears, from the materials on record, that for some of the
offences for which the Petitioner is charged with in T.R. Case No. 01
of 2014 being "scheduled offences" within the meaning of Section 2
(1)(y) of the PMLA, the Enforcement Directorate registered ECIR
No. 01/2014/BSZO on 5.02.2014. Thereafter, the investigation
commenced and since the Petitioner was already in judicial custody
in Keonjhar in connection with T.R. Case No. 01 of 2014, the
Enforcement Directorate filed a petition before the Learned Sessions
Judge (Khurdha) at Bhubaneswar with the prayer to take the
Petitioner into it's custody for interrogation for a period of fifteen
days in Crl. Misc. Case No. 05 of 2014 arising out of ECIR No.
01/2014/BSZO. The said prayer was allowed vide the Learned
Sessions Judge (Khurdha)'s order dated 03.07.2014 and the present
petitioner with other accused was remanded to custody till
10.07.2014. On 10.07.2014, when the present Petitioner was
produced in court, the Enforcement Directorate again sought for the
custody of the Petitioner, in accordance with law, for a period of
thirteen more days for further investigation of the case/ interrogation
of the petitioner. Vide order dated 10.07.2014, the present petitioner
with other accused was remanded to the Enforcement Directorate's
custody for ten days. In this period, the petitioner's statement was
recorded by the Enforcement Directorate on 22.07.2014. As the
matter stood thus, on 24.07.2014, the Assistant Director, Directorate
of Enforcement filed a petition stating that the petitioner's
interrogation was over and the petitioner could now be remanded to
judicial custody. It is pertinent to note that a bare perusal of the order
 // 7 //

dated 24.07.2014 of the Sessions Judge (Khurdha) also reveals in
clear terms that the Enforcement Directorate has not prayed for any
further remand and the Petitioner and co-accused are no longer
required in the case and therefore, the petitioner was directed to be
produced before the Special Judge Keonjhar so as to enable them to
be sent back to judicial custody in T.R. Case No. 01 of 2014. 11. The Opp. Party i.e the Enforcement Directorate on 11.04.2018
filed Complaint Case (PMLA) No. 40 of 2018 before the Court of
the Learned Sessions Judge (Khurda) at Bhubaneswar under Section
45 of the PMLA against multiple accused persons including the
present Petitioner. The Learned Sessions Judge (Khurda) took
cognizance on 21.08.2018 and issued summons to the accused
persons. Trial has since commenced but it appears, this trial as well
is nowhere near completion. 12. The Petitioner herein has filed the present petition under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 seeking
anticipatory bail in the event of his arrest in connection with
Complaint Case (PMLA) No. 40 of 2018 pending before the Court of
the Learned Sessions Judge (Khurda) at Bhubaneswar subject to the
condition that he will abide by the terms and conditions likely to be
imposed by this Court in the event of his release on pre-arrest bail
and further subject to condition that he shall cooperate with the trial
court for an early conclusion of the trial. 13. Per contra, Mr. G. Agarwal, learned Special Counsel
appearing for the Enforcement Directorate opposes the release of the
petitioner on pre-arrest bail by referring to the provisions contained
in Section 45 of the PMLA Act, 2002 and submits that the same has
 // 8 //

been enacted to combat the menace money laundering having a wide
repercussion on the financial system of the country. 14. Mr. Luthra, learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner contends
that the present petition may be allowed inter alia on the following
main grounds: b. In the alternative, even if it is assumed for the
 sake of argument, that the order of 24.07.2014 is
 not to be treated as a release order, the fact
 remains that the complaint under PMLA should
 have been filed within 60 days. As the same was
 not done, the Petitioner is clearly entitled to
 default bail under Section 167(2) of the CrPC. c. The Petitioner has already undergone
 imprisonment for about 6 years since the order
 dated 24.07.2014 of the Learned Sessions Judge
 (Khurda), albeit, in breach of Section 167(2) of
 the CrPC till his release on interim bail on
 28.09.2020 in BLAPL No. 1042 of 2018 by this
 Court which was extended from time to time and
 // 9 //

 was finally confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court on 31.01.2022 in SLP (Crl.) No. 5544 of
 2020. Thus, even if it is taken that the Petitioner's
 custody had not ended on 24.07.2014 or on the
 60th day since he was remanded to Enforcement
 Directorate custody on 10.07.2014 and the
 Complaint Case No. 40/2018 was registered on
 11.04.2018, it implies that he has already spent 6
 years in custody even in the case registered at the
 instance of the Enforcement Directorate (with or
 without) a legitimate remand order. The
 maximum punishment prescribed being 7 years as
 stipulated in Section 4 of the PMLA, the present
 Anticipatory Bail petition ought to be allowed,
 keeping in view the Enforcement Directorates'
 contention that a NBW has been issued, although
 the same has been denied by the Petitioner, which
 gives rise to genuine apprehension of arrest. d. Investigation in the matter has concluded and no
 new facts remain to be unearthed by the
 Enforcement Directorate which may require the
 custodial interrogation of the Petitioner. In fact,
 the alleged evidence unearthed in the course of
 investigation which the Opposite Party relies
 upon in its present Affidavit already finds
 mention in the Complaint Case (PMLA) No. 40 of
 2018 filed on 11.04.2018 in Paragraph 7 i.e.
 "Brief discussion of evidence relating to offence
 of money laundering". e. The Petitioner has already been subjected to
 rigorous custodial interrogation by E.D. and no
 useful purpose is going to be served by remanding
 the Petitioner to custody at this stage. Merely
 because trial has commenced and the Petitioner is
 enlarged on bail is not an ipso facto cause to
 belatedly arrest the Petitioner. 15. Per contra, Mr. Gopal Agarwal, learned Counsel for the Opp.
Party i.e. the Enforcement Directorate submits as follows: g. The Petitioner is accused of a serious economic
 offence and the quantum of punishment for
 money laundering offences being only 7 years
 cannot be the basis to undermine the gravity and
 seriousness of the offence committed by the
 accused person as the quantum of sentence is a
 matter of legislative policy. h. The Petitioner's case does not attract any relief in
 the nature of an anticipatory bail as the Ld.
 PMLA Court has taken cognizance of the case
 and the present case does not satisfy the rigors
 laid down in Section 45 of the PMLA. i. The Petitioner ought to have approached the Ld.
 District and Sessions Court, Khurdha prior to
 approaching this Court. j. Grant of anticipatory bail at the stage of
 investigation will render the Enforcement
 Directorate unable to collect useful information
 which the accused has concealed. As there are
 allegations of the proceeds being laundered, the
 Enforcement Directorate has to be given
 sufficient freedom in the process of investigation.
 The length of his custody, the complaint case
 having been filed, trial having commenced cannot
 be treated as persuasive grounds for granting the
 relief sought for in this case, to the Petitioner. 16. Having heard the rival contentions on grant of pre arrest bail
to the petitioner as has been raised by the learned counsels for the
parties and on a conspectus of the background facts of the case as
well as upon a close scrutiny of the materials placed before this
 // 11 //

Court for consideration by either side and futher taking into
consideration the affidavits filed by the learned counsel for the Opp.
Party as well the written note of submissions, this Court, at the
outset, would like to observe that it is the settled position of law that
except where there are specific provisions in the PMLA that provides
an alternative procedure, the provisions and procedure of CrPC shall
apply to the cases registered and tried under the PMLA. Section 65 of the PMLA states that: Given the mandate of Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution of
India, the powers under the PMLA in relation to the offences under
the PMLA, have to be governed by the CrPC , if not expressly
provided for alternatively in the PMLA. This is expressly recognized
and acknowledged by Section 65 PMLA. Therefore, there exists
absolutely no doubt with regard to the applicability of the procedural
law in the case of the present nature. 17. In matters pertaining to bail, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation reported
in (2022) SCC OnLine SC 825 recently was of the opinion that: Further the Supreme Court of India in Sanjay Chandra v. CBI ,
 // 12 //

(2012) 1 SCC 40, has observed that: 18. The concept of anticipatory bail was unknown to the old Code
of Criminal Procedure of 1898. The Law Commission of India, in its
 // 13 //

41st report, dated September 24, 1969, drew attention to the
necessity of introducing a provision in the Code, to enable the High
Courts and the Session Courts to grant anticipatory bail, for
protecting an accused or any person, who is apprehending or having
a belief that they may be arrested for any non-bailable offence. The
Law Commission was seized of the necessity for granting
anticipatory bail arose because, at times, influential individuals tried
to implicate their rivals in false cases for the purpose of disgracing
them or for other purposes, by detaining them in jail for a couple of
days. It was also observed that, with the accentuation of political
rivalry, the aforesaid tendency showed signs of a steady increase.
The Law Commission also suggested that it may not be practical to
exhaustively enumerate conditions under which anticipatory bail
may be granted, as the same may have been construed as prejudging
the entire case. Hence, this was left to the discretion of the courts,
without any fetters on such discretion in the statutory provision. 19. Accordingly, taking into consideration the Law Commission's
report (and the need of the hour), the Parliament, while enacting the
Code of 1973, introduced a provision for anticipatory bail under
Section 438, under the heading "Direction for grant of bail to person
apprehending arrest". Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code
reads as follows: The rest of the provision is not necessary for the purpose of
considering the question raised. Upon a plain reading of the
aforesaid provision, it is crystal clear that it confers concurrent
jurisdiction on the High Court as well as the Court of Sessions. The
wide discretion has been entrusted on the Court of Sessions as well
as on the High Court to enlarge such person who comes to the Court,
on anticipatory bail. Both the courts have got jurisdiction to enlarge
the applicant on anticipatory bail, considering the relevant guidelines
in the said provision. As could be seen from the provision itself,
there is no embargo or any rider incorporated under the provision
that the person who approaches the High Court must first exhaust the
said remedy before the Court of Sessions. 20. Furthermore, as stated here in above there exists no Act or
Rules or any straight jacket formula to regulate grant of bail to an
accused or a person who is apprehending arrest by police, be it
regular or anticipatory. The law on anticipatory bail has developed in
a non-linear course, through a plethora of judgments passed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court. The following cases are considered to be
 // 15 //

landmark breakthroughs in the law on anticipatory bail. The very
first landmark judgment on anticipatory bail was passed by a
Constitution bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court on April 9, 1980,
in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia v. State of Punjab reported in (1980) 2
SCC 565, which laid down the prevailing law of the land on this
issue, along with some guiding principles on the concept of
anticipatory bail. The Supreme Court, while considering personal
liberty as a fundamental right under Article 21 , declared that any
provision of law, which deals with personal liberty of an individual
cannot be unduly whittled down by reading restrictions into it,
especially the ones, which find no mention in the statute itself. This
judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court drew inspiration from the
judgment passed in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India reported in
AIR 1978 SC 597, which upheld the primacy of an individual's
personal liberty and mandated all laws having an interface with
personal liberty to be "just, fair and reasonable". 21. Additionally, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that courts
should lean against imposition of unnecessary restrictions on the
scope of Section 438 of the Code when no such restrictions have
been imposed by the legislature. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
also stated that courts are entitled to impose restrictive conditions as
they deem fit, but due consideration should be given to the
seriousness and nature of the proposed charges. Furthermore, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court laid down guiding principles inter alia being
that (i) the applicant must show that he has "reason to believe" that
he may be arrested for a non-bailable offence (ii) the High Court or
the Sessions Court as the case may be must apply its own mind to the
question and decide whether a case is made out for granting such a
 // 16 //

relief (iii) the filing of a First Information Report ("FIR") is not a
condition precedent to the exercise of power under Section 438 (iv)
anticipatory bail can be granted even after an FIR is filed, so long as
the applicant has not been arrested (v) the provisions of Section 438
cannot be invoked after the arrest of the accused (vi) a blanket order
of anticipatory bail should not generally be passed and (vii) the
normal rule should not be to limit the operation of the order in
relation to a period of time. 22. It is therefore clear that the question of granting an
anticipatory bail arises only prior to the arrest or to put it in
unambiguous terms, at the stage where the person seeking
anticipatory bail is 'apprehending arrest'. It is befitting at this
juncture to examine the concept of arrest and custody. The word
'arrest' is derived from the French 'Arreter' meaning 'to stop or
stay' and signifies a restraint of the person. Black's Law Dictionary,
5th Edition (1979), defines "arrest" as: 23. The word 'custody' similarly finds mention in various
enactments but it is also not defined under any enactment. The
meaning of the term 'custody' is given in the Oxford English
 // 17 //

Dictionary, as follows: 24. It is clear that the meaning of the word 'custody' has to be
taken with reference to the context in which it is used. The question
as to what would constitute arrest and custody has been the subject
matter of decisions of different High Courts. This issue was grappled
with by the Full Court of the High Court of Madras in the case of Roshan Beevi v. Joint Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu reported in 1983 SCC OnLine Mad 163, wherein the Hon'ble High
Court was pleased to observe as follows: 25. In the case of Niranjan Singh v. Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote reported in (1980) 2 SCC 559 the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that a
person is said to be in "custody" as envisaged under the Cr.P.C .
when he is in duress either because he is held by the investigating
agency or other police or allied authority or is under the control of
the court having been remanded by judicial order, or having offered
himself to the court's jurisdiction and submitted to its orders by
physical presence. This word "custody" has been explained to have
elastic semantics but its core meaning is that the law has taken
control of the person. It was observed that "the equivocatory
quibblings and hide-and-seek niceties sometimes heard in court that
the police have taken a man into informal custody but not arrested
him, have detained him for interrogation but not taken him into
formal custody and other like terminological dubieties are unfair
evasions of the straightforwardness of the law." A person can thus
be in custody not merely when the police arrest him, produce him
before a Magistrate and gets a remand to judicial or other custody.
He can be stated to be in judicial custody when he surrenders before
 // 19 //

the court and submits to its directions. In the said judgement the
overarching principles of bail jurisprudence were laid down and
which have been consistently followed by all courts including this
court in the cases of Satindra Kumar Yadav v. State of Odisha
reported in (2022) SCC Online Ori 90; Gurdit Dang v. State of
Odisha reported in 2021 SCC Online Ori 2361 and in the case of
Tareque Ahmad v. State of Odisha reported in 2016 SCC Online Ori 835. 26. In Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. State of Maharastra and Ors.
reported in (2014) 16 SCC 623 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
concluded that custody, detention and arrest are sequentially cognate
concepts. On the occurrence of a crime, the police is likely to carry
out the investigative interrogation of a person, in the course of which
the liberty of that individual is not impaired, suspects are then
preferred by the police to undergo custodial interrogation during
which their liberty is impeded and encroached upon. If grave
suspicion against a suspect emerges, he may be detained in which
event his liberty is seriously impaired. Where the investigating
agency is of the opinion that the detainee or person in custody is
guilty of the commission of a crime, he is charged of it and
thereupon arrested. This principle is reiterated by Pandian, J. in Directorate of Enforcement v. Deepak Mahajan reported in (1994)
3 SCC 440 that a person is in custody no sooner than he surrenders
before the police or before the appropriate court. Similar enunciation
of the law is also available in Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of M.P. reported in (2004) 7 SCC 558; Sunita Devi v. State of Bihar reported in ( 2005) 1 SCC 608 and Adri Dharan Das v. State of W.B. (2005) 4 SCC 303 all of which are in sync with the view expressed
 // 20 //

in Niranjan Singh (supra). 27. Moving on, Section 167 of the Cr.P.C. clearly lays down that
where investigation cannot be completed within twenty-four hours
and the accused is under arrest with police, he has to be produced
before the Magistrate for further detention if necessary. This is a
salutary provision to safeguard the citizen's liberty so that police
cannot illegally detain any citizen. Sub-sections (1) and (2) of
Section 167 which are relevant for our purposes read as under: 28. Sub-section (1) says that when a person is arrested and
detained in custody and it appears that investigation cannot be
completed within 24 hours fixed under Section 57 and there are
grounds of believing that accusation or information is well founded,
the officer in charge of the police station or the police officer making
the investigation not below the rank of Sub-Inspector shall produce
the accused before the nearest Judicial Magistrate. The mandate of
sub-section (1) of Section 167 CrPC is that when it is not possible to
complete investigation within 24 hours then it is the duty of the
police to produce the accused before the Magistrate. Police cannot
detain any person in their custody beyond that period. Therefore,
sub-section (1) presupposes that the police should have custody of an
 // 22 //

accused in relation to certain accusation for which the cognizance
has been taken and the matter is under investigation. Sub-section (2)
says that if the accused is produced before the Magistrate and if the
Magistrate is satisfied looking to accusation then he can remand the
suspect/accused to the police for investigation not exceeding 15 days
in the whole. But the proviso further gives a discretion to the
Magistrate that he can authorise detention of the accused otherwise
than the police custody beyond the period of 15 days but no
Magistrate shall authorise detention of the accused in police custody
for a total period of 90 days for the offences punishable with death,
imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten
years (so far State of Odisha is concerned 90 days be read as 120
days vide Orissa Act 11 of 1997). It is further provided that no
Magistrate shall authorise the detention of the accused person in
custody for a total period of 60 days when the investigation relates to
any other offence. Upon expiry of the period of 90 days (For Odisha
120 days) or 60 days as the case may be, and he shall be released if
he is willing to furnish bail. In this connection in State of
Maharashtra v. Bharati Chandmal Varma reported in (2002) 2
SCC 121 their Lordships have very clearly held that: 29. Therefore, the position of law is very clear that if during the
course of the investigation any further ramification comes to the
notice of the police then the period will not be extendable. In CBI v. Anupam J. Kulkarni reported in (1992) 3 SCC 141 the
Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as follows: 30. In so far as the the concept of "formal arrest" is concerned, the
 // 24 //

procedure therefor has been dealt with by the Apex Court in the case
of Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P. and others reported in 1994
SCC (Crl) 1172 that: 31. In fact, the Hon'ble Madras High Court in the case of State v.
K.N. Nehru reported in 2011 SCC OnLine Mad 1984 has succintly
summarized the discussion made therein as follows; 32. Upon examining whether it is at all necessary that invariably
in all cases such "formal arrest" is required to be effected in prison,
when the accused is already lodged in prison in connection with
some other case, it is needless to point out that though the police
officer has got power to arrest, it does not mean that he has to resort
to arresting the accused, irrespective of the need and justification for
arrest. The accused persons shall not be arrested in a robotic fashion.
Arrest needs to occur only if there are grounds and need to arrest, not
otherwise. It goes without saying that if deemed fit, and in exercise
of his discretion, the officer formally arrests the accused then when
such a formal arrest is effected in prison, the accused does not come
into the physical custody of the officer subsequently effecting the
formal arrest at all, instead, he continues to be in judicial custody in
connection with the other case. If the officer decides not to effect
formal arrest, it will be lawful for him to straightaway make an
application to the Jurisdictional Magistrate for issuance of P.T.
warrant for transmitting the accused from prison before him for the
purpose of remand. On such request, if the Magistrate finds that the
requirements of Section 267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are
satisfied, he shall issue P.T. Warrant for the production of the
accused on or before a specific date. It cannot be stressed upon
enough to remind the Judicial Magistrates of their constitutional
obligation, while exercising their right to remand an individual, since
it involves the curtailment of right to life, as guaranteed in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The procedure that has been provided
under the Cr.PC is common to both lighter offences and serious
offences and hence irrespective of the nature of offence, the police is
expected to follow the correct procedure failing which it will result
 // 28 //

in the violation of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 33. The question of applicability of Cr.P.C. to the PML Act has
been dealt with by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ashok
Munilal Jain v. Directorate of Enforcement , reported in (2018) 16
SCC 158 has held as follows: 34. In the context of the present case, it would be apt to state here
that while considering the present bail application, a detailed
 // 29 //

examination of the material on record especially touching upon the
merits of the case are not required to be undertaken, however, this
Court is expected to supply sound reasons while exercising its
discretionary power to enlarge the accused on pre arrest bail, as has
been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in many cases. 35. It would be pertinent to refer to another judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court delivered in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary
and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors. reported in 2022 SCC OnLine
SC 929, laying emphasis upon the further need to assign reasons as it
contains an embargo against the grant of bail to a person accused of
an offence under PML Act , unless the Public Prosecutor has been
given an opportunity to oppose the application and the Court is
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that such
person is not guilty of such offence and that if released on bail, he is
not likely to commit any offence, while on bail. The learned counsels
for the Enforcement Department as well as the petitioner relied upon
this judgment in course of their argument before this court. 36. A useful reference in this context can be made to a three Judge
Bench judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Ranjitsingh
Brahmajeetsing Sharma v. State of Maharashtra reported in (2005)
5 SCC 294 wherein the contours of the power of the Court to grant
bail in the face of the prohibition contained in Section 21(4) of the
Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999 arose for
consideration. The prohibition against the grant of bail under Section
21(4) of the MCOC Act, 1999 is pari materia to the bar contained in Section 45(1) of the PMLA. In Ranjitsingh Sharma (supra) the
Supreme Court elaborately narrated the approach to be adopted in
arriving at the satisfaction as to whether the accused is "not guilty of
 // 30 //

such offence" and that the accused is "not likely to commit any
offence while on bail". The relevant paragraphs are quoted
hereunder: 36. Does this statute require that before a person is
 released on bail, the court, albeit prima facie, must
 come to the conclusion that he is not guilty of such
 offence? Is it necessary for the Court to record such a
 finding? Would there be any machinery available to the
 Court to ascertain that once the accused is enlarged on
 bail, he would not commit any offence whatsoever? 37. Such findings are required to be recorded only for
 the purpose of arriving at an objective finding on the
 basis of materials on records only for grant of bail and
 for no other purpose . 38. We are furthermore of the opinion that the
 restrictions on the power of the Court to grant bail
 should not be pushed too far. If the Court, having regard
 to the materials brought on record, is satisfied that in all
 probability he may not be ultimately convicted, an order
 granting bail may be passed. The satisfaction of the
 Court as regards his likelihood of not committing an
 offence while on bail must be construed to mean an
 offence under the Act and not any offence whatsoever be
 it a minor or major offence. ............ 44. The wording of Section 21(4) , in our opinion, does
 // 31 //

not lead to the conclusion that the Court must arrive at
a positive finding that the applicant for bail has not
committed an offence under the Act. If such a
construction is placed, the court intending to grant bail
must arrive at a finding that the applicant has not
committed such an offence. In such an event, it will be
impossible for the prosecution to obtain a judgment of
conviction of the applicant. Such cannot be the intention
of the Legislature. Section 21(4) of MCOCA, therefore,
must be construed reasonably. It must be so construed
that the Court is able to maintain a delicate balance
between a judgment of acquittal and conviction and an
order granting bail much before commencement of trial.
Similarly, the Court will be required to record a finding
as to the possibility of his committing a crime after grant
of bail. However, such an offence in futuro must be an
offence under the Act and not any other offence. Since it
is difficult to predict the future conduct of an accused,
the court must necessarily consider this aspect of the
matter having regard to the antecedents of the accused,
his propensities and the nature and manner in which he
is alleged to have committed the offence. 45.It is, furthermore, trite that for the purpose of
considering an application for grant of bail, although
detailed reasons are not necessary to be assigned, the
order granting bail must demonstrate application of
mind at least in serious cases as to why the applicant
has been granted or denied the privilege of bail. 46. The duty of the court at this stage is not to weigh the
evidence meticulously but to arrive at a finding on the
basis of broad probabilities. However, while dealing
with a special statute like MCOCA having regard to the
provisions contained in sub-section (4) of Section 21 of
the Act, the Court may have to probe into the matter
deeper so as to enable it to arrive at a finding that the
materials collected against the accused during the
investigation may not justify a judgment of conviction.
The findings recorded by the court while granting or
refusing bail undoubtedly would be tentative in nature,
which may not have any bearing on the merit of the case
and the trial court would, thus, be free to decide the
case on the basis of evidence adduced at the trial,
 // 32 //

 without in any manner being prejudiced thereby." 37. Interestingly, the Hon'ble Supreme Court even in the case of Vijay Choudhary (supra) has observed as follows: As explained by this Court in Nimmagadda Prasad, the
 words used in Section 45 of the 2002 Act are
 "reasonable grounds for believing" which means the
 Court has to see only if there is a genuine case against
 the accused and the prosecution is not required to prove
 the charge beyond reasonable doubt." Therefore, there is no doubt that the restrictions in the matter
 // 33 //

of grant of bail are required to be considered reasonably. If the Court
having regard to the material brought on record is satisfied that, in all
probability, the accused may not be ultimately convicted, an order
granting bail may be passed. Conversely, it is not a mandatory
requirement that the Court must arrive at a positive finding that the
Petitioner has not committed an offence under the Act. This view has
also been followed by the Hon'ble High Court of Bombay in Anil
Vasantrao Deshmukh v. State of Maharashtra and Anr. vide it's
judgment and order dated 4.10.2022 in Bail Application No. 1021 of
2022, which has in turn attained finality after Special Leave Petition
(Crl.) Diary No. 32078 of 2022 filed against aforesaid order dated
4.10.2022 which was disposed of by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
recently vide it's order dated 11.10.2022. 38. The Petitioner in the case at hand has been charged under Sections 4 of the PML Act which provides for a maximum
punishment of seven years. Section 13 (1) (c) (d) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act which provides for the maximum punishment of seven
years and under Sections 120 B, 379,409, 411 and 420 of the IPC . A
perusal of Section 2(y) of the PML Act provides for the scheduled
offences thereunder and Paragraph 1 relates to offences under the IPC which are "scheduled offences" within the meaning of the PML Act . Section 409 of the IPC does not figure as a scheduled offence under
the schedule to the act. Therefore, all the other offences including the
offences under the IPC have a maximum punishment of up to 7 years
imprisonment. 39. Now reverting back to the facts of the present case, the core
allegation which forms the foundation of the alleged offence is that
the petitioner along with the other accused persons performed illegal
 // 34 //

mining in the Uliburu Iron Ore Mines and in that process amassed and
mobilized illegal monies by defrauding the state exchequer and
caused loss to it. On that basis an FIR was registered at Balasore
Vigilance PS bearing No. 20 of 2013 for alleged offences under sections 13 (2) r/w 13 (1) (c) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, Sections 120-B / 420 / 379 / 409 / 411 of IPC, Section 4 and 21 (1) of MMDR Act, 1957 and Section 3 of Forest Conservation Act, 1980.
A final charge-sheet bearing number No. 6/2014 was submitted on
24.06.2014 by Vigilance Police, Balasore, Odisha before the Ld.
Special Judge, Vigilance Court at Keonjhar. The Opposite Party
registered the Enforcement Case Information Report bearing ECIR
No. 01/2014/BSZO as some of the offences under the alleged offences
mentioned above were coming under "scheduled offences" as defined
in the PMLA under Section 2(y) by lodging a complaint under Section
45 of the PMLA. 40. The substratum of the allegation with regard to the predicate
offences seems to be one of illegal mining. The allegation is that
under valuation has been done with regard to the quantum of material
is raised and the state exchequer has been defrauded on account of
non-payment of royalty. The primary contentions raised by the
opposite party seems to be that at no stage had they taken the
petitioner into "custody" and in any case no formal arrest had been
affected. That being the case, although the petitioner has been
enlarged on bail in the vigilance case and the fact remaining that the
opposite party herein has never formally arrested the petitioner herein,
nothing stops them from seeking his custody at the stage for custodial
interrogation. It is for this reason that in their affidavit they have
sought to stress and impress upon this court that the Petitioner's
 // 35 //

remand was sought under Section 267 CrPC and not under Section
167 CrPC. It is the opposite parties case that insofar as the
enforcement cases concerned only "remand" was directed by the
competent court and therefore could not be said that the petitioner had
been arrested by the opposite party. Since no "arrest" had been
affected by the opposite party in the enforcement case they now seek
to take the petitioner into custody by effecting a formal arrest if and
when required insofar as the enforcement cases are concerned. It is
also stated by them that the fact that bail was granted by this court in
the vigilance case and confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
primarily on the ground that the petitioner had undergone a period of
about six years and the maximum quantum of punishment was about
seven years will have no consequence, insofar as the enforcement
case is concerned. 41. A thorough scrutiny of the factual background of the present
case indicates that the petitioner herein had been taken into custody
and not "arrested" by the Opposite Party is evident from a perusal of
the orders passed by the special court PMLA, Bhubaneswar. Orders
dated 3.07.2014, 10.07.2014 and 14.07.2014 would indicate that the
Petitioner had been taken into custody at the request of the opposite
party by moving an application and upon such request, they were
granted "remand" of the petitioner by the court concerned for a period
of seven days and thereafter for an additional period of 10 days. 42. The analysis of the various judicial pronouncements in the
preceding paragraphs with regard to the concept of arrest and
custody unequivocally demonstrate that the Petitioner in the present
enforcement case has never been "formally arrested" by the
Enforcement Directorate but has been remanded to their custody for
 // 36 //

the purposes of investigation. In the said context, the argument
advanced before this court by Mr. Agarwal, learned counsel for the
E.D. has substance in it. Therefore, it appears to this court that most
likely the Enforcement Directorate officials have chosen to not
exercise their discretionary power to "formally arrest" the Petitioner,
probably because they did not feel the need to do so. Furthermore,
since lodging of the ECIR to till date, the E.D. officials never
bothered to formally arrest the petitioner and while the petitioner was
in custody in connection with the vigilance case, he was taken on
remand for interrogation by E.D. officials. After investigation was
concluded, probably the necessity of arrest was never felt by E.D.
The Petitioner had cooperated with investigation and had recorded
his statement before the Enforcement Directorate which had led the
Enforcement Directorate to state that they no longer require the
custody of the Petitioner for the purposes of investigation. As such Section 167 CrPC which talks about the benefits of default bail when
investigation cannot be completed post arrest is not applicable to the
present factual situation and the Petitioner cannot claim any benefit
of the said provision. Moreover, the orders passed by the Ld. Special
Judge, Special PMLA Court at Bhubaneswar on 03.07.2014,
10.07.2014 and 24.07.2014 were in line with the provisions of Section 267 of the CrPC. Such ground realities also entail that the
present pre arrest bail at the instance of the petitioner is
maintainable, furthermore, the Petitioner can apply for and seek
grant of anticipatory bail as he justifiably apprehends his formal
arrest in the enforcement case by the E.D. officials, never having
been arrested in the enforcement case before. This court is also
unable to convince itself as to why the E.D. vehemently opposes the
bail application of the petitioner at this juncture when they did not do
 // 37 //

anything for past several years to formally arrest the petitioner. The
reply of Mr. Agarwal to the courts query was found lacking in many
aspects and this court is unable to fathom the approach and strategy
of the E.D. in opposing the bail application of the petitioner. 43. This being the peculiar situation of the present matter at hand,
the question of the custody of the petitioner being granted to the
Opposite Party all over again in respect of the same enforcement case
is flawed in concept and misconceived in law. Once bail in the
vigilance case had been granted by this court and affirmed by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court that too the petitioner was detained in custody
for almost 6 years out of maximum quantum of punishment that could
be inflicted for the scheduled offences is 7 years, therefore, this court
deems it proper and justified to consider the question of bail with
regard to the Enforcement case from the standpoint of collective and
combined view of the whole issue on conspectus of all the facts
involved and the law applicable thereto. 44. In Anokhi Lal v. State of Madhya Pradesh reported in (2019)
20 SCC 196 it has been reiterated that expeditious disposal of
criminal matters should not be at the expense of basic elements of
fairness and opportunity to the accused. In the case of Sanjay
Chandra v. CBI reported in (2012) 1 SCC 40 while dealing with a
matter involving a public scam which was extremely prejudicial in
nature, the Hon'ble Supreme Court sounded a word of caution while
dealing with such matters and had that in cases where under trial
prisoners are detained in jail custody indefinitely, Article 21 of the
Constitution stands violated. In matters involving scams it was noted
that usually a large number of witnesses are present and the trial
usually takes a considerable amount of time to be completed. In such
 // 38 //

cases once the charge-sheet has been filed, the court may depending
on the facts of the case, the court in seisin ought to decide such bail
application on its own merits. While holding so it was alive to the
fact that in some situations such lengthy trials may even prolong
beyond the maximum sentence provided under the relevant law. In
that case the punishment for the offence was for a maximum period
of imprisonment of seven years. It was held therein that even if the
accused had a likelihood of being convicted, the period of detention
already undergone during the trial stage would have a great bearing
while deciding a bail application and such a factor should also be
taken into consideration. 45. The Opposite Party claims that investigation is continuing
which necessitates custodial interrogation of the present Petitioner
and has pressed upon us some evidence in its present Affidavit. At
this juncture, however, we note that the present matter has gone
beyond the stage of investigation qua the present Petitioner to a
substantial extent although, the Enforcement Directorate seeks to
keep the door open for further investigation. Here, this court
observes that the investigation has almost been concluded and no
new materials whatsoever were brought to the notice of this court,
albeit the case is lingering for almost more than half a decade now.
Further, custodial interrogation several years after the institution of
the case does not stand to any legal reason and justification. Hence,
in the absence of any new incriminating materials against the
petitioner and Mr. Agarwal's attempt to demonstrate the case relying
the materials which are already on record would not change the
ground position substantially and to the disadvantage of the
petitioner. // 39 // 46. It may not be out of place to refer to the case of Satender
Kumar Antil v. CBI (supra) where the Hon'ble Supreme Court dealt
with Section 436A of the Cr.PC. In the said case comprehensive
directions were passed to formulate and carry out directions with
regard to provisions of bail. While the dealing with different fact
situations the cases were categorised into A, B, C and D
categories/types of offences. Category C was categorised as offences
punishable under special acts containing stringent provisions for bail
like NDPS ( Section 37 ), PMLA ( Section 45 ), UAPA (Section 43D), Companies Act (Section 212 (6), POCSO etc. while dealing with
Section 436A of the code which has been inserted by Act 25 of 2005
the object of the amendment was gone into by the Hon'ble Apex
court. The provision provides that when a person has undergone
detention for a period extending to ½ of the maximum period of
imprisonment specified for that offence, he shall be released by the
court on his personal bond with or without securities. It has been
noted that that the word "shall" clearly denotes the mandatory
compliance of this provision. It has been noted therein that in cases
where the provision applies the power has to be exercised sparingly
with the principle governing the presumption of innocence of the
accused has the provision is a substantive one, facilitating liberty
being the core of the intendment of article 21. In fact the Hon'ble
Supreme Court has also taken note of the earlier directions passed by
it in the case of Bhim Singh v. Union of India reported in 2015
SCC 605 on the very same lines. Finally, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court has concluded that with regard to category C of cases although
the individual and enactments were not discussed individually as
each special act has a specific objective behind it, followed by the
rigours imposed therein, however, it has been clarified that the
 // 40 //

general principle governing bail would apply to these categories also.
Thus, to make it clear, the provision contained in Section 436A of
the Code would apply to the special acts also in the absence of any
specific provision. Therefore, this court would unhesitantly conclude
that the rigour, as provided under the special acts such as Section 45 of the PMLA Act as in the present case, would not come in the way
as the liberty of the individual is paramount under Article 21 of the
Constitution of India. 47. The Petitioner has been in the custody of the Enforcement
Directorate wherein his statement has been recorded. He has been
stated not to be required by the Enforcement Directorate themselves
which stands recorded in order dated 24.07.2014 of the Special
PMLA Court, Bhubaneswar. All the documentary evidence to be
unearthed against the Petitioner is already in the custody of the
Opposite Parties and in fact, assets of the Petitioner and his family
members to the tune of Rs.386 crores have admittedly already been
attached which is almost equal to the value of the amount of monies
allegedly misappropriated. The Petitioner has surrendered his
passport to the investigating agency in T.R. Case No. 01 of 2014 and
as such no risk exists with regard to the fact that the petitioner might
flee away from the country and the court of law. Furthermore, my
attention was also drawn to the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in Common Cause v. Union of India reported in (2017) 9
SCC 499 wherein similar allegations of illegal mining were levelled
against multiple mining leaseholders in the State by the Central
Empowered Committee. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
aforementioned matter levied "penalty" on all mining leaseholders to
compensate for the environmental damage and the loss to revenue
 // 41 //

caused by their alleged actions. However, the Hon'ble Supreme
Court had not deemed it appropriate to direct an enquiry by the
Central Bureau of Investigation, as prayed for, against the mining
leaseholders as it was held that "what is of immediate concern is to
learn lessons from the past so that rapacious mining operations are
not repeated in any other part of the country". Since the
aforementioned judgment, hardly any mining leaseholder has been
proceeded against criminally and even from amongst the handful
who have been, nobody has been convicted yet of offences under IPC or the PML Act . 48. In light of the discussion made here in above coupled with a
conspectus of the surrounding facts and circumstances of the present
case as well as the fact that the petitioner was in custody for almost 6
years in connection with the vigilance case which forms part of
scheduled offence for the present case under PML Act and the fact
that the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is over and the
E.D.'s statement before court that custody of the petitioner is no
more required and above all the fact that the petitioner was not
formally arrested by the E.D. in the present case since the institution
of the case by registering the ECIR further considering the factual
background of this case with the touchstone of the test enunciated in
the case of Ranjitsingh Sharma (supra), this court is persuade to
form a prima facie opinion that, in all probabilities, the Petitioner
may not be ultimately convicted especially as none of the other
mining leaseholders who were penalised by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the Common Cause case (supra) have been successfully
charged/ convicted of similar predicate offences. 49. Furthermore, the mining operation as well as the mining laws,
 // 42 //

in the meanwhile, has undergone a drastic change, therefore, prima
facie there exists no possibilities of such offences being repeated in
the future. The apprehension of Mr. Agarwal that the petitioner
might not cooperate with the trial and he may not appear before the
trial court on each and every date the matter is posted to can very
well be taken care of by imposing conditions while releasing the
petitioner on pre arrest bail, further violation of such conditions
would draw the penalty of curtailment of liberty granted to the
petitioner by virtue of this order. 50. At this juncture, this Court as a constitutional would like to
highlight another aspect of the matter. As has been said earlier,
initially the Vigilance case was registered in the year 2013. The
petitioner was arrested and taken into custody. Thereafter, the ECIR
was submitted in 2014 and PMLA case was registered in 2018. After
remaining custody for more than 6 years, the Petitioner was released
on bail by this Court and later on the same was confirmed by the
Hon'ble Apex Court. Since 2013, the criminal proceedings are
pending and it is not known as to how long the trial will continue.
Considering the list of witnesses and the documents, the trial is not
likely to conclude in the near future. Under such factual scenario this
Court is not expected to remain as a mere spectator and allow the
fundamental rights of the accused citizen to be infringed by the
prosecution. Therefore, this Court is also of the considered view that
concept of right to fair and speedy trial as has been guaranteed under
Article 21along with the observation of the Supreme Court in
Babubhai's Case (Supra) i.e. the accused cannot be subjected to
tyranny of legal process which may go on endlessly for no fault of
the accused himself, squarely applies to the facts of the case in hand
 // 43 //

and as such this court is under a constitutional obligation to protect
such fundamental rights of the accused petitioner. 51. On a conspectus of the peculiar facts involved in the case at
hand and the law applicable thereto, this Court, considers this the
present case to be a deserving case for exercising it's discretion
under Section 438 CrPC and to grant anticipatory bail to the present
Petitioner and accordingly it is directed that the petitioner be released
on bail in the event of his arrest by the E.D. officials in connection
with Complaint Case (PMLA) No. 40 of 2018 pending before the
Ld. Special Judge, Special Court, Bhubaneswar, Khurdha subject to
such terms and conditions as the arresting officer would deem fit and
proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case. Further, the
release of the petitioner on pre arrest bail shall also be subject to
following additional terms and conditions; a. The Petitioner shall appear before the Ld. Special
 Judge, Special Court, PMLA, Bhubaneswar on
 each and every date the case is posted to without
 fail. In case of default in appearance for any
 insufficient reason it is open for the Ld. Trial
 Court to issue NBW against the Petitioner. b. While on pre arrest bail the Petitioner shall not
 make any attempt whatsoever to tamper with or
 destroy the prosecution evidence. c. While on pre arrest bail, the Petitioner shall not
 make any attempt whatsoever to threaten,
 influence, induce, gain over any of the
 prosecution witnesses. d. The Petitioner shall cooperate with investigation if
 his cooperation is sought for by the Enforcement
 Directorate. e. The Petitioner shall not leave the country under
 any circumstances and shall surrender his travel
 // 44 //

 documents like passport etc, if not already
 surrendered before the trial court. f. The Petitioner shall keep on informing about his
 whereabouts to the E.D. and shall provided his
 address and mobile number to the E.D. and keep
 the same updated from time to time. g. Violation of any of the conditions mentioned
 herein above would entail cancellation of the bail
 granted to the Petitioner. 52. It is made clear that the observations made herein are prima
 facie for the purposes of the instant application and the trial Court
 shall decide the case in question on its own merits uninfluenced by
 any of the observations/findings given in this order, strictly in
 accordance with law by following the procedure. 53. With the aforesaid observations/directions, the anticipatory
 bail application stands allowed. ( A.K. Mohapatra)
 Judge
Jagabandhu