JYOTI SINGH, J. I.A. 16454/2021 (for filing additional documents, by Plaintiffs) 1. Present application has been preferred on behalf of the Plaintiffs
 under Order XI Rule 1(5) read with Section 151 of the CPC, 1908 as
 amended by the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and
 Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, 2015 (hereinafter
 referred to as the 'Act') seeking leave of this Court to file additional
 documents. Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831 2. Plaintiffs have filed the present suit seeking injunction
 restraining the Defendants from infringing Plaintiffs No. 1 and 5'
 copyright in their original literary work 'HealthBuzz', Plaintiffs'
 confidential data, information and trade secrets and from printing,
 publishing, reproducing, etc. or dealing, in any manner, with the
 literary work, amongst other reliefs. 3. Summons were issued in the suit on 28.09.2018. Upon being
 served, Defendants filed their written statements and subsequent
 thereto replications have been filed by the Plaintiffs. Most of the
 parties have filed their affidavits of admission and denial of
 documents. Issues are yet to be framed in the suit. 4. It is Plaintiffs' case that Defendants No. 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14 to
 19 are ex-employees of Plaintiffs No. 1 to 4 and during the course of
 their employment, they had access to and acquired significant
 knowledge of Plaintiffs' proprietary software 'HealthBuzz', its source
 code and all other confidential data and trade secrets. Misusing
 confidential information, source code, trade secrets etc., Defendants
 clandestinely set up competing business entities in March, 2016, while
 they were employed with the Plaintiffs. Taking undue advantage of
 their association with the Plaintiffs, Defendants also resorted to
 diverting clients and business of the Plaintiffs to Defendants No. 1 to 3
 and created a counterfeit software of 'HealthBuzz'. 5. By the present application, Plaintiffs seek to place on record the
 following additional documents which have been bifurcated for the
 ease of reference by the Plaintiffs in Section 'A' and Section 'B': II. Correspondence/documents in respect of parallel companies incorporated
 by the Defendants, namely Exure Technologies Pvt Ltd in India (formerly
 known as Exaosis Technologies Pvt Ltd) and Enoviq Technologies Pte Ltd
 in Singapore (formerly known as Exaosis Technologies Pte Ltd). (d) In early 2020, the Plaintiffs received a whistle blower complaint that
 the Defendants discretely set up yet another company in the names of
 Exaosis India and Exaosis Singapore. (e) Screenshots disclosing the domain names of Exure Technologies Pvt.
 Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Exaosis India") and Enoviq Technologies
 Pte. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Exaosis Singapore"). (f) Documents disclosing the details of the owner of the domain name
 www.exaosis.com (being Defendant No. 13, Ms. Himani Sharma) as well
 as that of the Defendant Nos. 1 and 2. (g) Documents evidencing the initial and subsequent proprietor of the
 trademark "Ayushmat". (h) Audited financial statement of Exaosis India for the year ending 31
 March 2019 which reflected trade payables of INR 1,12,500 to Defendant
 No. 10, Mr. Sunil Kumar. (i) LinkedIn profiles and profiles uploaded on recruitment websites such as
 www.naukri.com of various employees of the Defendant No. 1 which were
 transferred to payroll of Exaosis India or having worked on HealthBuzz. (j) Audited financial statement of Exaosis India for the year ending 31
 March 2020 which showed that the total revenue was generated from IT
 support services provided by Exaosis India in respect of Plaintiffs'
 HealthBuzz or a counterfeit of HealthBuzz along with the Director's
 Report which confirmed that 100% of the turnover of Exaosis India was on
 account of software support services and software development services. (k) Screenshots from www.exaosis.com regarding the health insurance
 solution of Exaosis India and Exaosis Singapore. (l) Plaintiffs' legal notices dated 9 February 2021 to Exaosis Singapore
 and eBaoTech Corporation for seeking information and documents which
 would enable the Plaintiffs to determine the extent to which Exaosis
 Singapore was misusing the Plaintiffs' software HealthBuzz either through
 eBaoTech Corporation (Singapore) or on its own. Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831 (m) Reply of Exaosis Singapore dated 5 March 2021 denying the
 Plaintiffs' allegations without providing any information/documents as
 requested for. (n) Cease-and-desist notice dated 6 July 2021 issued by the Plaintiff No. 1
 to Exaosis India regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights
 in HealthBuzz and its source code and other infringing material. (o) Second notice dated 13 July 2021 issued by the Plaintiff No. 1 to
 Exaosis India requesting for certain information and documents. (p) Reply dated 28 July 2021 sent by Exaosis India to the cease-and-desist
 notice dated 6 July 2021 issued by the Plaintiff No. 1. (q) Reply dated 28 July 2021 sent by Exaosis India to the legal notice
 dated 13 July 2021 issued by the Plaintiff No. 1. III. Plaintiffs' notices to the Defendants highlighting breach of the Interim
 Order dated 28 September 2018 and the Defendants' notices alleging
 defamation and breach of Ad-Hoc Agreement (r) Cease-and-desist notice issued by the Plaintiffs to the Defendants on 13
 July 2019 in order to restrain from (a) marketing HealthIns; (b) dealing
 with HealthBuzz; (c) representing themselves as agents of the Plaintiffs;
 and (d) dealing with the present clients of the Plaintiffs. (s) Defendants' reply dated 15 July 2019 to the cease-and-desist notice
 issued by the Plaintiffs denying all allegations. (t) Plaintiffs' notice for discovery and production of documents to the
 Defendants dated 1 August 2019. (u) Defendants' reply to the Plaintiffs' notice for discovery and production
 of documents to the Defendants. (v) Notice issued by the Defendants to the Plaintiffs on 2 September 2019
 alleging that the Plaintiffs were writing frivolous e-mails to Defendants'
 several customers. (w) Notice issued by the Defendants to the Plaintiffs on 2 September 2019,
 alleging breaches under the Ad-Hoc Agreement. (x) Notice issued by the Defendants to the Plaintiffs on 9 September 2019
 alleging that the Plaintiffs were writing frivolous e-mails to Defendants'
 several customers. (y) Notice of rescission issued by the Plaintiff No. 1 (through its
 advocates) to some of the Defendants on 11 September 2019, notifying
 them that the Ad-Hoc Agreement (and connected agreements) were
 vitiated by fraud and misrepresentation. (z) Defendants' reply dated 28 September 2019 to the notice of rescission
 issued by the Plaintiff No. 1 objecting to the rescission of the Ad-Hoc
 Agreement (and connected agreements). Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 (aa) Notice issued by the Defendants to the Plaintiffs on 10 October 2019
 alleging that the Plaintiffs were writing frivolous e-mails to Defendants'
 several customers. (bb) Plaintiffs' reply dated 16 October 2019 to the Defendants' second
 notice of 2 September 2019 regarding the purported breaches of the Ad-
 Hoc Agreement wherein it was reiterated that the Ad-Hoc Agreement (and
 connected agreements) stood vitiated due to fraud and misrepresentation.
 (cc) Plaintiffs' reply dated 16 October 2019 to the Defendants' defamation
 notice, inter- alia pointing out that the notice was bereft of particulars and
 calling upon the Defendants to share copies of the allegedly defamatory
 communications. (dd) Plaintiffs' letter dated 7 January 2020 issued to the Defendants,
 refuting the Defendants' contentions. (ee) Defendants' letter dated 21 February 2020 issued to the Plaintiffs,
 refusing the Plaintiffs' offer to return the monies already received under
 the Ad-Hoc Agreement. IV. Correspondence exchanged with Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co Ltd
 ("ABHI") in respect of the Defendants' engagement with them.
 (ff) Annual Report on Health Insurance published by ABHI on its website
 for the financial year 2019-20 wherein at page 75, ABHI refers to
 HealthBuzz as one of the IT systems used by it. (gg) E-mails dated 16 September 2019, 7 October 2019 and 25 October
 2019 exchanged between the Plaintiffs and ABHI which confirmed that
 the Defendants continued to provide services in respect of HealthBuzz to
 ABHI. (hh) Notice dated 29 April 2020 issued by the Plaintiffs to ABHI for
 invocation of arbitration agreement in order to settle all disputes. (ii) ABHI's reply dated 28 May 2020 to the Plaintiffs denying its
 engagement with the Defendants in respect of HealthBuzz.
 (jj) Plaintiffs' reply dated 31 May 2020 to ABHI's reply dated 28 May
 2020. V. Documents in respect of the HealthBuzz-Claims System supplied by the
 Defendants to Liberty General Insurance Co Ltd ("Liberty")
 (kk) Software License and Support Agreement dated 16 December 2014
 executed between Plaintiff No 1 and Liberty wherein Liberty's business
 requirements for implementing HealthBuzz in four different phases was
 captured. (ll) Addendum Agreement executed between Plaintiff No 1 and Liberty
 demonstrating the resumption of services by the Plaintiffs.
 (mm) Screenshots of the TPA claims system that was initially provided by
 the Plaintiffs to Liberty. (nn) Screenshots of the HealthBuzz - Claims System supplied by the
 Defendants to Liberty, which the Plaintiffs accessed while providing Signature Not Verified services to Liberty on 29 October 2021. Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 5 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 (oo) Screenshots of the source code of HealthBuzz software disclosing
 references to Defendant No 1, which the Plaintiffs accessed while
 providing services to Liberty. VI. Other Documents
 (pp) Indicative list of the different services at each level (L0 to L3) to
 demonstrate the provision of services, both with and without the use of
 source code. Section B (a) Draft confidentiality agreement shared by the Defendant No. 14 with
 ABHI on 31 August 2016 for providing implementation and support
 services in relation to the Plaintiffs' proprietary software, HealthBuzz. (b) Defendant No. 1's proposal dated 21 October 2016 in respect of
 maintenance services for HealthBuzz to ABHI. (c) Purchase Order of INR 79,20,000 issued by ABHI in favor of the
 Defendant No. 1 dated 2 November 2016 following the proposal for
 providing L2 and L3 support services for HealthBuzz while being
 employed with the Plaintiffs. (d) E-mail dated 31 January 2017 sent by the Defendant No. 14 (while
 being employed with the Plaintiffs) to ABHI wherein the source code of
 HealthBuzz was unauthorizedly shared. (e) E-mail dated 17 February 2017 sent by ABHI to the Defendant Nos. 4
 and 14 enclosing a document setting out ABHI's business requirements in
 respect of Group EW coverage for the purpose of seeking fee
 estimation/timelines for delivery. (f) Commercial proposals for module customizations and implementation
 of multiple change requests submitted by the Defendants to ABHI between
 9 February 2017 to 20 February 2017. (g) Several other proposals such as proposals for development of Idea
 Payment Bank module dated 6 February 2017, proposal for web API
 development and customization for Policy Bazar dated 6 February 2017,
 etc. were shared by the Defendant No. 1 with ABHI. (h) Purchase Orders issued by ABHI in favour of the Defendant No 1. (i) Purchase order for INR 5,50,000 towards Policy Bazaar integration
 services dated 2 February 2017. (ii) Purchase order for INR 8,50,000 towards Idea Payment banking
 services dated 2 February 2017. (iii) Purchase order for INR 40,000 towards cheque reconciliation
 process for Seller portal and App dated 3 February 2017. (iv) Purchase order for INR 15,07,954 towards revised member ID
 logic, product configuration for affinity group, discontinuation of FF
 combinations below 1 lac, discontinuation of OPD and Maternity, retail
 product - hospital cash development dated 16 March 2017 and its
 corresponding invoice dated 3 April 2017. Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831 (i) Independent Master Services Agreement executed between the
 Defendants (while being employed with the Plaintiffs) and ABHI post
 discussions in March 2017. (j) E-mails exchanged between ABHI and the Defendants Nos. 4, 14 and
 18 on 24 May 2017 by which ABHI shared a document setting out its
 business requirements on the basis of which the Defendant No. 1 was to
 offer support services in relation to HealthBuzz. (k) E-mail sent by Mr Prabhdeep Lamba (who is currently working with
 Contingent (Hong Kong) and has been in close collaboration with the
 Defendants before) to the Defendant No. 4 on 15 April 2017 which
 contained references to the ownership of the Plaintiff 5 in HealthBuzz and
 the modus operandi of the Defendants for providing services in respect of
 HealthBuzz to the Plaintiffs' clients. 6. Arguing in support of the application, learned Senior Counsel
 appearing on behalf of the Plaintiffs submitted that there is no legal
 bar in taking on record the documents in Section 'A' which fall in 3
 broad categories viz: (a) relate to events or incidences which have
 occurred subsequent to the filing of the suit; (b) have been discovered
 by the Plaintiffs after the suit was filed; and (c) existed prior to the
 filing of the suit, but were not in Plaintiffs' power, possession, control
 or custody at the time of filing and were not related to the infringing
 activities of or breaches by the Defendants, when the suit was filed. 7. Elaborating and dilating on the nature of additional documents,
 it was stated that the first 4 categories of documents from (a) to (jj)
 have come into existence only after the filing of the suit and Plaintiffs
 are not required to disclose 'reasonable cause' under Order XI Rule
 1(5) CPC , for non-filing the said documents with the plaint. The 5th
 category of documents (kk) to (oo) relate to infringing activities of the
 Defendants pertaining to their transactions with Liberty General
 Insurance Co. Ltd. (Liberty), discovered by the Plaintiffs subsequent
 to the suit and thus the Software License and Support Agreement with
 Liberty, albeit pre-dates the suit, becomes relevant and reasonable
 cause for non-disclosure with the plaint, need not be established. Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 Plaintiffs have broadly referred to the infringing activities of the
 Defendants, recently discovered by the Plaintiffs, in paras 44 to 93 of
 the plaint and it is neither necessary nor was feasible or even possible
 to have pleaded in the plaint about the infringing activities of the
 Defendants relating to every Insurance company, with whom they
 have been or are dealing and using 'HealthBuzz'. These documents
 have also become relevant on account of the averments in the written
 statements, where Defendants have denied having any access to data,
 documents, source code or confidential information of the Plaintiffs.
 Defendants have also denied that they had abused the faith reposed in
 them or cheated the Plaintiffs or siphoned of Plaintiffs' business while
 being employed with them and have instead stated that they were free
 to enter into a contract for managing the Plaintiffs software
 'HealthBuzz'. The additional documents sought to be placed on record
 will evidence that contrary to the stand in the written statements,
 Defendants have continued to infringe, by supplying the HealthBuzz-
 Claims System to one of Plaintiffs' clients, which was impossible
 without accessing Plaintiffs' proprietary software and copyrighted
 source code. 8. It was submitted that the 6th category of document (pp) is in aid
 of the Plaintiffs' pleaded case in the plaint. The document is an
 indicative list of services that can or cannot be undertaken without
 modification of source code and pleadings to this effect are in
 paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 29, 32, 119, 152 and 156 of the plaint. Defendants
 have, however, failed to demonstrate that the document is irrelevant or
 immaterial in any manner and/or that the indicated list of services
 could be rendered without use of Plaintiffs' source code.
 Importantly, Defendants have admitted that once any client acquires
 the software from the Plaintiffs, it can subsequently engage any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 8 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 Company for managing the software, which would necessarily entail
 use of the source code. 9. Insofar as documents under 'Section B' are concerned,
 contention was that although these documents date back to a period
 prior to the filing of the suit, but existence of these documents was
 unknown to the Plaintiffs, when the suit was filed. These documents
 have been recently discovered, during arbitration proceedings, against
 Aditya Birla Health Insurance Co. Ltd. (ABHI), post the filing of the
 suit from the backup of the laptop that was being used by one of the
 ex-employees of the Plaintiffs. The documents demonstrate the extent
 of Defendants' involvement in dealing with Plaintiffs' software
 HealthBuzz, while providing services to ABHI, during their
 employment with the Plaintiffs, in breach of contractual terms and
 confidentiality obligations therein. It was canvassed that it has been a
 challenge for the Plaintiffs to retrieve and collate these documents,
 including those filed along with the plaint, on account of sudden
 resignation of the Defendant employees, who while leaving took away
 all confidential data and information, to which they were privy. Most
 of these documents, it was urged, have been already filed along with
 two applications, one under Order XXXIX Rule 2A CPC being I.A.
 6886/2021 and another under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC being
 I.A. 16424/2021. 10. It was further submitted that there is no delay in filing the
 additional documents as the same were filed soon after the last
 set of documents were discovered on 29.10.2021. Assuming without
 admitting there is a delay in filing of the documents, that cannot be a
 ground for not taking them on record, once they are otherwise relevant
 and material to adjudication of the disputes arising in the present suit. Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831 11. Learned Senior Counsel contended that it is a settled law that
 the mandate of Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC to establish a 'reasonable
 cause' for non-disclosure of the documents along with the plaint shall
 not apply if it is averred that documents were discovered subsequent
 to filing of the suit and were not in power, possession, control or
 custody of the Plaintiffs, when the plaint was filed. [Ref.: Sudhir
 Kumar @ S. Baliyan v. Vinay Kumar G.B. , 2021 SCC OnLine SC
 734]. Even where the provisions of Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC require
 disclosure of a reasonable cause, the said expression requires a lower
 degree of proof as compared to 'good cause' or 'sufficient cause'. 12. Learned Senior Counsel further contended that Plaintiffs have
 shown reasonable cause for filing the documents as mentioned in
 'Section B' and a liberal approach is required to be taken in the
 matter, particularly, when suit is at a stage where issues have not been
 framed. [Ref.: Hassad Food Company Q.S.C. and Another v. Bank
 of India and Others , 2019 SCC OnLine Del 10647]. The Court, at
 this stage, is not required to determine the authenticity, admissibility
 or relevancy of the documents of a threshold required at the stage of
 trial and final arguments and therefore, the argument of the
 Defendants with respect to relevancy of the documents to the dispute
 ought to be rejected. Certainly, the Court is entitled to see that the
 documents sought to be brought on record under Order XI Rule 1 CPC are not totally alien to the subject matter of the suit. 13. Arguing in rebuttal, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf
 of Defendants No. 1 to 7 and 12 to 19, opposed the application on
 many-fold grounds. It was canvassed with vehemence that the
 pleadings in the application are vague and baseless and do not disclose
 any cogent reason for filing the additional documents. In order to
 place the additional documents on record, Applicant is required to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 10 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 show that: (a) documents could not be filed with the plaint by reason
 of their not being in the power, possession, control or custody of the
 Plaintiff; and (b) the documents have a critical bearing on the matter
 and are necessary for effective adjudication of the issues involved. As
 far as documents that have purportedly come into existence after filing
 of the suit, the only ground pleaded in the application is that they
 have come into existence post the filing of the suit. No reason is
 forthcoming as to how the documents are relevant and necessary for
 effective adjudication of the issues involved in the suit. A bare
 averment that the additional documents are relevant and material to
 meet the case set up by the Defendants in the written statement is not
 enough and it is not stated as to why no steps were taken to file the
 documents when the replication was filed. 14. The application lacks pleadings as to when the documents in
 Section 'A' came into power and possession of the Plaintiffs. Some of
 the documents date back to the year 2019 and no reason is
 forthcoming for their non-filing for 2 years. Plaintiffs cannot be
 permitted to take advantage of their lackadaisical conduct in a
 commercial suit. Some of the documents now sought to be brought on
 record were filed by the Plaintiffs with the contempt application being
 I.A. 6886/2021. The application was dismissed by the Court by a
 reasoned order, holding that the application had no merit. No reasons
 have been given as to why these documents have now become
 relevant for just adjudication of the suit. 15. Documents (a) to (c) in Section 'A' do not mention whether the
 alleged revenue is generated from HealthIns or HealthBuzz or
 servicing of 'HealthBuzz' and/or any other related activity. Mere
 generation of revenue by Defendants has no bearing on the
 present dispute and is completely irrelevant. With respect to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 11 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 documents (d) to (q), not a single averment is made in the plaint that
 Defendants have made parallel companies abroad. Moreover, these
 third parties have denied any association with the Defendants for
 which supporting documents are on record. Documents from (r) to
 (ee) have been filed to show breach of the interim order and have no
 part to play in the adjudication of the suit. These documents were in
 fact filed with the contempt application, which was dismissed and thus
 the documents cannot be brought on record, at this stage. Documents
 (ff) to (oo) cannot be permitted as none of them have any genesis in
 the pleadings. Insofar as documents relating to Liberty are concerned,
 the ground for filing additional documents is that the 'Claim System
 Module' has been added by the Defendants. What is the Claim System
 Module, how many modules does 'HealthBuzz' contain and how the
 Claim System Module is installed is not pleaded either in the plaint or
 replication or even in the present application and that the Defendants
 have installed 'HealthBuzz' in Liberty's computers is not even the
 cause of action on which the suit is premised. Document (pp) cannot
 be termed as a 'document' and is a self-serving list prepared by the
 Plaintiff, only to improve and broaden the case of the Plaintiffs and
 assert a cause of action, not asserted in the plaint. 16. The additional documents enumerated under 'Section B'
 admittedly existed prior to filing of the suit. Plaintiffs are now taking a
 position that the documents have been recently discovered from a
 laptop used by one of the ex-employees, during arbitration
 proceedings against ABHI. Plaintiff is required to a reasonable cause
 for non-disclosure of the documents with the plaint as also the
 relevancy of the documents and Plaintiff has failed on both counts. It
 is stated in the plaint that the laptops used by the Defendants were
 handed over to the Plaintiffs on which Forensic investigation was Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 12 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 conducted and some documents were filed with the plaint. There is no
 mention that some documents at that stage could not be retrieved on
 account of technical issues or lack of passwords etc. and/or how the
 difficulties faced at that time, if any, were subsequently resolved.
 Being unsuccessful in obtaining an injunction as well establishing
 contempt on the part of the Defendants, on these very documents,
 Plaintiffs cannot be permitted to rely on them again. Perusal of para 5
 of the application would show that the application completely lacks in
 pleadings on whether the ex-employee is one of the Defendants in the
 present suit or any other employee or what occasioned and triggered
 the retrieval of these documents during arbitration. Therefore,
 Plaintiffs have failed to show reasonable cause as required under
 Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC and the documents cannot be brought on
 record. 17. I have heard learned Senior Counsels for the parties and
 examined their respective contentions. Since this is an application
 preferred on behalf of the Plaintiffs for bringing on record additional
 documents, the grounds have to be tested on the anvil of provisions of
 Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC , as amended by the Act, which is extracted
 for ready reference as under: 18. Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC , as applicable to the commercial suits,
 mandates the Plaintiff to file a List of Documents and photocopies of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 13 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 the documents in its power, possession, control or custody, pertaining
 to the suit, along with the plaint. Under Sub-Rule (5) of Rule 1 of Order XI of CPC , there is a statutory proscription on the Plaintiff to
 rely on documents which were not disclosed at the time of filing of the
 plaint, if the same were in its power, possession, control or custody.
 The proscription equally applies to the Court from granting leave, save
 and except, when the Plaintiff is able to demonstrate a reasonable
 cause for not filing the said documents with the plaint. This position of
 law clearly emerges from the exposition of law by the Supreme Court
 in Sudhir Kumar @ S. Baliyan (supra). Relevant para reads as
 follows: 19. From a reading of the aforementioned passage, two principles
 of law pronouncedly emanate: (a) the documents which were in
 Plaintiff's power, possession, control and custody, but were not
 disclosed along with the plaint, shall not be allowed to be relied upon, Signature Not Verified unless a reasonable cause is set out for non-disclosure and the Court Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 14 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR
Signing Date:22.11.2022
19:10:19
 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 grants leave to rely on the additional documents, satisfied with the
 reasonable cause; and (b) requirement of establishing reasonable cause
 shall not come in the way, if it is averred that the documents were
 discovered subsequently and were not in Plaintiff's power, possession,
 control or custody when the plaint was filed. A corollary to the said
 principles is that the documents which come into existence subsequent
 to the filing of the suit i.e. are post-dated, are saved from the rigours of
 showing 'reasonable cause' for non-disclosure, envisaged in Rule 1(5)
 of Order XI CPC . 20. Tested on the anvil of the affirmation of law by the Supreme
 Court, the documents at serial nos. (a), (b) and (c) in Section 'A' of
 the application, as aforementioned, can be taken on record as: (i) they
 have come into existence subsequent to the filing of the suit [Ref.: 21. Insofar as documents at serial nos. (d) to (q) in Section 'A' are
 concerned, these relate to correspondence/other documents in respect
 of parallel companies allegedly incorporated by the Defendants in
 India and in Singapore. It is well settled that at this stage of granting
 leave to place on record additional documents, Court is not required to
 determine the authenticity, admissibility or relevancy of the
 documents and these are considerations which would arise at the time
 of trial and/or even at the stage of deciding an application under Order
 XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC , for arriving at a prima facie view, as held
 by the Supreme Court in Sudhir Kumar (supra). This is, however, not
 to be understood to mean that the Court would accept the documents
 only on the asking of the Plaintiff. Court will examine whether there is Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 15 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 some connection to the suit and that the documents are not wholly
 alien or extraneous to the disputes arising between the parties to the lis
 and needless to say this has to be judged from the averments in the
 pleadings. [Ref. : K. Mallesh v. K. Narender and Others , (2016) 1
 SCC 670; Khurmi Associates (P) Ltd. v. Maharishi Dayanand
 Co-operative Group Housing Society , 2022 SCC OnLine Del 1011;
 and Hemendra Rasiklal Ghia v. Subodh Mody , 2008 SCC OnLine
 Bom 1017]. 22. Following the afore-stated position of law and applying the
 same to the present set of facts, it can be clearly seen that documents
 from (d) to (q), were not in existence when the suit was filed.
 Documents apparently relate to a whistle blower's complaint and
 parallel companies incorporated by the Defendants, including their
 Audited Financial Statements and recruitment websites as well as
 cease and desist notices, issued by Plaintiff No. 1 and replies received
 thereto. Having perused the pleadings in the plaint, the contention of
 the Defendants that these documents do not have a genesis or a
 foundation in the plaint, cannot be accepted. Plaintiffs have in the
 plaint averred that Defendants No. 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14 have on
 several occasions misrepresented to the existing and prospective
 clients of the Plaintiffs and have induced several of their customers to
 enter into contracts with Defendants No. 1 to 3 causing loss to the
 Plaintiffs and wrongly benefiting themselves. It is also averred that
 Defendants' employees are continuing to infringe the copyright of the
 Plaintiffs unabated and their illegitimate activities are multiplying,
 with each passing day. It is also stated that Defendants' employees
 have purposely and with a dishonest intent siphoned off Plaintiffs'
 business to Defendants No. 1 to 3 and are continuing to unlawfully
 access and use the proprietary/confidential information/intellectual Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 16 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 property of the Plaintiffs, in breach of the confidence and trust reposed
 in them. The contention that Defendants' employees are misusing the
 opportunity offered by their employment with the Plaintiffs as a spring
 board to set up competing business by stealing the business of the
 Plaintiffs, is also averred. Averments also include allegations that on
 several occasions, the said Defendants have misrepresented to the
 existing and prospective clients of the Plaintiffs and have induced
 several customers of the Plaintiffs to enter into contracts with
 Defendants No. 1 to 3. In para 169 of the plaint, it is averred that the
 confidential information of the Plaintiffs is of a character that if
 monetised by Defendants No. 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14, it can cause
 irreparable loss and injury to the Plaintiffs and that Plaintiffs
 apprehend that the said Defendants along with Defendants No. 1 to 3
 are likely to further misuse and abuse the confidential data, etc. to the
 detriment of the business prospects of the Plaintiffs. In para 171, it is
 pleaded that there is a major threat that these Defendants will disclose
 the information and other related materials to third parties. Para 176
 contains averments that Defendants have diverted legitimate business
 of the Plaintiffs to the extent of at least Rs. 5 crores from 2017 till the
 date of the filing of the present suit and as on the date of the suit,
 Plaintiffs do not have further details of the monies unlawfully
 obtained by the Defendants as they do not have access to the bank
 accounts or account books of the Defendants. Thus, right is reserved
 to amend the plaint to claim additional amounts, as and when further
 information comes to Plaintiffs' knowledge. Therefore, in view of
 these pleadings, in my view, no new case is being set up by the
 Plaintiffs by filing the aforementioned documents, as the same do
 have a foundation in the plaint and the documents can be taken on
 record. Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831 23. Documents from (r) to (ee) in Section 'A' are Plaintiffs' notices
 to the Defendants, alleging breach of the interim order dated
 28.09.2018 and the Defendants' notices alleging defamation and
 breach of ad-hoc agreement. The documents are apparently post the
 filing of the suit and they relate to breach of the interim order dated
 28.09.2018. The only objection raised by the Defendants to these
 additional documents is that they were filed as part of the contempt
 application and once the Court has found that no contempt is made out
 and the application has been dismissed, the documents cannot be taken
 on record. While it is a matter of record that Plaintiffs did not succeed
 in proving that the acts of the Defendants were contemptuous,
 however, it cannot be said that the documents are wholly extraneous
 or irrelevant to the inter-se disputes between the parties to the present
 suit. The relevancy or admissibility of the documents will be seen at
 the stage of trial and final arguments. Moreover, no prejudice can be
 caused to the Defendants as the suit is at a stage where issues have not
 been framed and secondly, most of the documents relate to the
 responses/replies sent by the Defendants to the notices sent by the
 Plaintiffs or vice-versa and are in possession of the Defendants. The
 documents, therefore, can be taken on record, subject to their
 relevancy being decided at later stage. 24. Documents in Section 'A' from (ff) to (jj) relate to
 correspondence exchanged with Aditya Birla Health Insurance
 Company Ltd. (ABHI) in respect of Defendants' engagement with
 them. Each of these documents are post the filing of the plaint and do
 not suffer from the rigour of showing reasonable cause under Order XI
 Rule 1(5) CPC . Document at (ff) relates to Annual Financial Report
 which is available on the website and is in public domain. The
 remaining documents, according to the Plaintiffs, are correspondence Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 18 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 with ABHI which would show the continuing infringing activities of
 the Defendants and the stand of ABHI in support of the Plaintiffs. The
 necessary averments in support of the documents find genesis in the
 plaint and moreover, the case of the Plaintiffs is premised on
 Defendants' own admission in the written statement that they entered
 into contracts with third-parties to manage Plaintiffs' software
 HealthBuzz, licensed to Plaintiffs' clients, more particularly, Aditya
 Birla. In this view, the documents can be taken on record. 25. Documents (kk) to (oo) relate to the HealthBuzz-Claims System
 supplied by the Defendants to Liberty. It is the stand of the Plaintiffs
 that the infringing activities of the Defendants are continuing, contrary
 to the stand in the written statements that they have no access to data,
 documents, source code etc. of the Plaintiffs. Additionally, Defendants
 have also stated that they are free to enter into a contract for managing
 the Plaintiffs' software HealthBuzz. These documents would
 demonstrate that Defendants have supplied the HealthBuzz-Claims
 System to one of Plaintiffs' clients i.e. Liberty, after the filing of the
 suit, which could not have been done without having Plaintiffs'
 proprietary software and copyrighted source code and in this context
 the Software License and Support Agreement dated 16.12.2014
 entered between the Plaintiffs and Liberty becomes relevant.
 Documents are not to make out a fresh cause of action, as alleged by
 the Defendants and there are substantial pleadings in the plaint that
 Defendants are continuing to infringe. 26. Having examined the documents (kk) to (oo), it is palpably
 clear to the Court that barring the document (kk), the remaining
 documents are post the filing of the plaint and do not fall under the
 rigours of establishing a reasonable cause for non-disclosure with the
 plaint and are in aid to show the alleged dealings of the concerned Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 19 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 Defendants with Liberty. The document (kk), i.e. Software Licence
 and Support Agreement dated 16.12.2014 is, no doubt, prior to the
 filing of the suit, however, as aforementioned, viewed in light of the
 contention of the Plaintiffs that it has become relevant post the filing,
 once it was discovered that contrary to the stand of the Defendants in
 the written statement, they are continuing to indulge in infringing
 activities and have entered into transactions with Liberty, Plaintiffs
 cannot be deprived of placing these documents on record, subject
 however to their relevancy and admissibility being examined at the
 appropriate stage of the suit. In any event, Rule 1(c)(ii) of Order XI
 begins with a non-obstante clause and provides that nothing in
 sub-Rule (1) shall apply to documents produced by the Plaintiff and
 relevant only in answer to any case set-up by the Defendant
 subsequent to the filing of the plaint, and the aforementioned
 documents are being sought to be brought on record to meet the stand
 of the Defendants in the written statement. Defendants are not correct
 in their submission that there is lack of pleading with respect to the
 said documents. Paras 148, 150, 152, 171 and 172, to illustrate a few,
 contain averments that Plaintiffs have learnt that Defendants are
 continuing with their illegitimate acts of using counterfeit software
 i.e., HealthIns in the market and examples to that effect have also been
 mentioned. 27. With respect to Document (pp) in Section 'A', the opposition
 on behalf of the Defendants is that Plaintiffs are trying to enlarge the
 scope of the suit as there is no averment in the plaint to the effect that
 some services can be undertaken without source code modification
 and some cannot. It was also contended that the said document is, in
 fact, not even a document but only a list of services prepared by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 20 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 Plaintiffs, placed merely as an annexure to the application and is
 unsupported by any pleadings even in the present application. 28. I have perused the document (pp) and find merit in the
 contention raised by the Defendants that the same cannot be taken on
 record. A bare perusal of document (pp) shows that it is a typed list
 prepared by the Plaintiffs enumerating the services allegedly which
 can or cannot be performed without modification of the source code.
 The list cannot be termed as a document and as rightly pointed out by
 the Defendants, has no genesis in the pleadings in the plaint or even
 the present application. 29. With respect to the documents in Section 'B', it is averred in the
 application by the Plaintiffs that the existence of these documents was
 not within their knowledge at the time of filing the plaint and these
 have been recently discovered during arbitration proceedings against
 ABHI from the laptop that was being used by one of the
 ex-employees of the Plaintiffs at the relevant time. It is categorically
 averred that these documents are crucial as they would demonstrate
 the extent of Defendants' involvement in dealing with Plaintiffs'
 proprietary software HealthBuzz and provision of services to ABHI in
 breach of employment contracts and confidentiality obligations. It is
 also stated that the documents could not be filed earlier on account of
 the sudden resignation of some of the employees from the services of
 the Plaintiffs and their taking away all confidential data and relevant
 information. The opposition by the Defendants to the present set of
 documents is that the laptop has been in possession of the Plaintiffs
 prior to the filing of the suit and no reasonable cause is forthcoming as
 to why these could not be filed with the plaint. It is not explained how
 some documents were retrieved from the laptop earlier and filed with Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 21 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 the plaint, while the present set of documents could not be taken and
 filed for two years. 30. Having heard the learned Senior counsels for the respective
 parties, in my view, documents in Section 'B' cannot be taken on
 record, at this stage. Plaintiffs have averred that these documents were
 recently discovered during the arbitration proceedings, which was
 invoked on 29.04.2020 against ABHI. Be it noted that in the plaint, it
 is stated in para 107 that Plaintiffs engaged M/s Pinkerton Consulting
 & Investigation Inc. for purposes of Cyber Forensic Examination of
 the various computer systems, laptops and other devices, allocated to
 Defendants No.4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14 at the time they were working for
 Plaintiffs No.1 to 4. Defendants are right in their objection that if these
 documents are purportedly discovered from the backup of the laptop
 of Defendant(s), then they were in possession and custody of the
 Plaintiffs when the plaint was filed, since admittedly, the laptop was in
 possession of the Plaintiffs at that stage and they had access to the data
 contained therein, which is fortified by the fact that many documents
 retrieved from the laptop were indeed filed along with the plaint.
 Significantly, even when the application being I.A. 6886/2021 was
 filed, although there is reference to these documents in the context of
 contempt alleged to be committed by the Defendants, but there is not
 even a whisper as to how and why these additional documents were
 discovered and/or came into possession of the Plaintiffs, subsequently.
 Plaintiffs have thus failed to disclose reasonable cause for non-
 disclosure of the additional documents, which were in their custody
 when the suit was filed. There is nothing on record which even
 remotely gives credence to the stand of the Plaintiffs that the
 documents came into their possession subsequently and in my view, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 22 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 the position now adopted is belied by the admitted fact that the laptop
 in question was in their custody throughout. 31. In Societe DES Produits Nestle S.A. & Anr. v. Essar
 Industries & Ors. , 2016 SCC OnLine Del 4279, this Court observed
 that undoubtedly, Courts have been liberal in the past in allowing
 documents to be filed, even at a late stage, i.e. beyond the stage
 prescribed in law for filing thereof, but the said view needs to change
 in light of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , the whole purport
 whereof is to expedite the disposal of suits, and commercial suits are
 to be treated differently, forming a distinct class. 32. In Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. v. Saregama India
 Ltd. , 2019 SCC OnLine 10215, the Court held that if the
 Courts, inspite of the legislative mandate and change, continue to
 overlook the deficiencies in prosecution of the suits, in the
 name of justice, litigants of commercial suits will never wake
 up to the change required to be brought about in the conduct of such
 suits. 33. Applying the aforesaid judgments, in my view, it would be
 antithetical to the legislative mandate of the Act if the Plaintiffs were
 permitted to bring on record the documents in Section 'B', keeping in
 view that: (a) they pertain to a period prior to filing of the suit; (b) no reasonable cause as mandated under Order XI Rule 1(5) CPC is
 shown, persuading the Court to grant leave to bring them on record;
 and (c) Plaintiffs have been unable to make out a case that the
 documents were discovered post the filing of the suit. 34. Accordingly, the application is partially allowed in the aforesaid
 terms and the documents in Section 'A', save and except, document
 (pp) are taken on record, subject to payment of cost of Rs.25,000/- to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 1146/2018 Page 23 of 24 By:KAMAL KUMAR Signing Date:22.11.2022 19:10:19 Neutral Citation Number: 2022/DHC/004831

 the Delhi High Court Bar Clerks' Association within three weeks from
 today. Documents enumerated in Section 'B' are disallowed. 35. Application is disposed of in the above terms.