MediaNama’s Take: Netflix recently releasing guidelines for using generative AI in content production draw a line between what the company considers acceptable AI use and what it does not. The context of these guidelines is particularly important here.

They come after the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP) reached agreements with the Writers Guild of America (WGA) and Screen Actors Guild – American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA) in 2023 about AI use. As part of these agreements, companies under AMPTP will not be able to use AI to write or rewrite literary material, and will also require informed consent before they create the digital replicas of SAG-AFTRA members.

Other factors that may have motivated such guidelines could be the backlash Netflix received for alleged use of AI after it released a true crime documentary called “What Jennifer Did” in 2024.

Based on all this, one could surmise that Netflix is looking to prevent future legal issues both from the unions’ side, and also from any other party that may raise issues around copyright infringement or unauthorised use of likeness.

Filmmakers, production partners, and vendors must share any of their intended use of generative AI with their Netflix contact, the streaming giant says in its guiding principles for generative AI use in content production. The company has published these guiding principles to help global productions stay aligned with best practices for generative AI use. The company requires its production partners to ensure that:

If production companies cannot confidently confirm compliance with these guidelines, they must seek written approval from Netflix before proceeding with the AI use.

Netflix requires content producers to seek its approval for creating background elements (eg: signage, posters), creating final character designs or key visuals, to replicate acting talent, use training data such as celebrity visuals or copyrighted art, or use Netflix’s proprietary materials.

Production teams must protect personal data and creative rights when using generative AI. Netflix suggests that before a company uses a third-party gen AI tool in content production, it should check whether the data it is feeding said model requires special handling, clearance, or consent.

The company restricts production teams from inputting Netflix-owned materials (like unreleased assets or production stills) or personal data (e.g., cast or crew details) into tools, unless explicitly approved. Production teams must also not fine-tune a model on materials from artists/performers without proper legal clearance.

Content producers must not use AI to generate main characters, key visual elements, or fictional settings that are central to a particular story. Netflix suggests that they should avoid using prompts that reference copyrighted materials, someone’s likeness (whether alive or deceased) without permission.

Producers must also not create digital replicas of a performer’s voice/likeness without consent and without compliance with SAG-AFTRA requirements where applicable. Netflix suggests that creators must be careful when altering a performance’s emotional tone or delivery, because this could have legal and reputational repercussions.

The film streaming service also suggests that content producers should not create AI-generated content that a viewer may mistake for a real event (especially if such an event never actually occurred), such as creating a fake news segment. Furthermore, production teams must ensure that their work does not materially impact the work usually done by union representatives, except in cases of proper agreements or approvals.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event