Indian IT company Jetking Infotrain Limited witnessed a rise in the price of its shares recently, as the company informed that it had invested in Bitcoin (BTC) and intended to use it as the company’s primary treasury reserve asset. With this, Jetking has become the first Indian publicly traded company to include Bitcoin as part of its treasury.

“Jetking’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) has authorized among other things, manage the Company’s Treasury Reserve Assets, with the objective of holding a majority of the Treasury Reserve Assets in BTC, which has been designated to be the Company’s primary Treasury Reserve Asset, subject to market conditions and anticipated needs of the business for Cash Assets” it said in its treasury reserve policy document for FY 2024-2025 and going forward.

It further said that Designated Officers within the organisation were the ones tasked with evaluating and approving decisions pertaining to Reserve Management, including “the amount, timing, and pricing of acquisitions and dispositions of BTC,” and its management.

As of December 16, 2024, Jetking’s share prices stood at Rs 122.87 , a 52-week market high for the company. It also outperformed its sector by 8.28% on the given day, as per a report by MarketsMojo.

In a response to BSE’s queries regarding price movement of its shares, Jetking attributed the same to investments in Virtual Digital Assets (VDAs) like Bitcoin as well as Ethereum on December 13.

“We would like to inform you that, as part of our strategy to diversify our treasury holdings and mitigate inflation risks, the Company has made investments in Virtual Digital Assets like Bitcoin and Ethereum, since 2022” it noted, adding that fluctuations in prices of said cryptocurrency assets had “indirectly impacted the price movement” of its company shares.

Despite its major investments into BTC, Jetking stated that it deemed it important to maintain at least 15% of its revenue in cash assets, “while maintaining adequate liquidity and a reasonable degree of diversification” between the two categories.

Significantly, it further informed that if Designated Officers ever observed cash assets falling below the cash reserve threshold, they would use ‘commercially reasonable efforts’ to meet the threshold, including by “potentially disposing of a requisite amount of BTC,”.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event