Raghav Chadha, a member of the Rajya Sabha, called for the legalisation of virtual digital assets, such as crypto and stablecoins, in India. Chadha, who also belongs to the Aam Aadmi Party, addressed the upper house during the ongoing budget session.

“We currently tax virtual digital assets as if they are legal, but we regulate them as if they are illegal. My solution to this is to heavily regulate it, ring-fence the ecosystem, and strengthen anti-money laundering laws. Prohibition is not protection; regulation is protection.” – AAP MP Raghav Chadha.

Cryptocurrency exists in a legal grey area in India because the government has neither completely banned it nor recognised it as legal tender. Critics even argue that cryptocurrency is not even a currency, as it requires a trustworthy sovereign body, like the Reserve Bank of India, to issue it. However, despite the legal clarity, in October 2025, the Madras High Court ordered that cryptocurrencies can be recognised as property under Indian law.

In his parliament address, Chadda discussed the potential losses to the Indian government’s tax revenue from the migration of Indian companies and traders offshore to avoid taxation in India. “India already has a de facto tax system for digital assets, as individuals are required to pay a flat 30% income tax when they buy or sell cryptocurrencies and a 1% transaction tax. But they are somehow not recognised as an asset class,” he said, highlighting the legal grey area.

Since there is no legal framework for virtual digital assets, he said,

As a result, he alleged:

“So, it is important to implement the compliance in India and heavily regulate it, but, more importantly, bring them back onshore [India]. By doing so, the Indian government will benefit from Rs. 5,000–20,000 crore in annual tax revenue,” – Raghav Chadha.

In recent times, Chadha was also vocal on q-commerce issues, particularly regarding the ban on 10-minute delivery services. Later, the Indian government asked the quick commerce platforms to stop advertising as 10-minute delivery platforms. Earlier in Parliament, Raghav Chadha also addressed India’s fair usage debate, arguing that limiting the use of copyrighted content does not constitute piracy.

In 2022, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made amendments to the Finance Act that regulated virtual digital assets (VDA) through taxation.

It says that:

However, before the Indian government made these legislative changes, the Reserve Bank of India had called for a complete ban . “Banning cryptocurrency is perhaps the most advisable choice open to India,” the Reserve Bank of India’s Deputy Governor T Rabi Sankar said at a business conference just a few months before Sitharaman brought the taxation to crypto assets.

Referring to the dynamic nature of cryptocurrencies, he said that “Cryptocurrencies are very much like a speculative or a gambling contract.” Because of this, he added that they could wreck the Indian currency system, the monetary authority and the banking system, as they “threaten the financial sovereignty of a country” as they have the potential to replace the Indian rupee.

It is also important to note that in 2018 RBI imposed an indirect ban on cryptocurrencies by asking the financial sector to stop offering crypto-related services. However, later in 2020, the Supreme Court of India lifted the ban , allowing cryptocurrency exchanges to resume integration with banking services.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event