(PER : HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE N.V.ANJARIA)

 The challenge in this Appeal from Order is directed against Page 1 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

order dated 27.1.2022 passed by learned Special Judge,
Commercial Court - 8th Additional District Judge, Ahmedabad
(Rural) at Mirzapur, below Exh.5 in Trade Mark Suit No.8 of
2021, whereby the commercial court below allowed interim
injunction application of the plaintiff- respondent herein. 2. The commercial court below, restrained the defendants
from providing and offering for sale the product sizzlers by using
similar trade dress, secrets, recipe, etc. thereby from
committing the act of passing off the product and services of the
plaintiff. 3. The respondent- original plaintiff instituted trade mark suit
against the appellants for permanent injunction to restrain the
defendants their agents and distributors from misusing,
acquiring and / or offering for sale the product sizzlers to others
as well as to customers by using trade dress, data and trade
secrets, that is recipe and from advertising, marketing, exposing
his business with identical and deceptively similar trade dress
and trading style as of the plaintiff's trade dress, style, secrets,
recipe and customer data and from committing the act of
passing off. The relief was prayed for accounts of profit and for
damages to the goodwill of the plaintiff because of using
identical and deceptively similar trade dress, style, secrets etc.

3.1 The plaintiff also filed interim injunction application in the
said suit praying for ad-interim injunction to restrain the
defendants from their agents and servants from misusing,
acquiring and offering for sale sizzlers products, using similar
data and trade secrets, thereby to restrain the defendant from Page 2 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

committing the act of passing off. 3.2 In the plaint as well as in the injunction application, it was
the case pleaded by the plaintiff that the plaintiff was engaged in
the business of running a restaurant in the name 'Yanki' since
2.7.2012. Initially the business was in personal and later came
to be converted into 'Yanki Sizzlers Private Limited' along with
rights, goodwill, trade dress etc. The business was run at the
address of Thaltej, Ahmedabad. 3.2.1 The trademark 'Yanki Sizzlers' came to be registered
with No.2417168 dated 23.10.2015 showing the user since
8.5.2012 under Class-43 which includes restaurants. As stated
above, the sole proprietorship was converted into a company on
31.8.2017. It was further averred that the plaintiff started
another branch also at H.L.Commerce College, Navrangpura,
Ahmedabad. For that purpose, it was stated, the plaintiff applied
for loan at Rs.10 crores. Towards repayment of the loan, the
plaintiff gave undertaking and for assurance purposes, he
further gave leave and licence agreement of the owners of the
property. The owners of the property were defendant Nos.2 and
3, the appellants herein. 3.2.2 It may be stated at this stage that appellant No.2 and
3- owners of the commercial premises had been running a
restaurant in the name and style of Kitchen Kraft from 2009 and
2012. Since that time, they also had been serving the food item
known as 'sizzlers'. The plaintiff started business in the
restaurant with name Yanki on 2.7.2012. C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

3.2.3 While defendant Nos.2 and 3 were the owners of the
restaurant premises, defendant Nos.4 and 5 stood as the
employees of the plaintiff since the start of restaurant business
by the plaintiff in the year 2012. They were named Manager and
Captain respectively. When the second branch was started at
H.L.Commerce College, the second person who was the captain,
also came to be designated as Manager. It was the case of the
plaintiff that both were handling secret recipes, secret trade
dress, menu, price, customer data etc. It was the case that
defendant Nos.4 and 5 had a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff. Leave and licence agreement came to be executed
between defendant Nos.2 and 3 and plaintiff on 28.8.2017 for a
period of four years, from 1.7.2017 to 30.6.2021. It inter alia
stipulated thirty days prior notice for terminating the
agreement. It was stated that business was run at both the
places smoothly. 3.2.4 It was alleged that with execution of licence
agreement upto June, 2021 as above, the relationship of
defendant Nos.2 and 3 with plaintiff also became fiduciary in
nature. It was stated that plaintiff paid regular licence fees since
2012 till March, 2020. It was the further case that due to
pandemic and imposition of lockdown from March, 2020 by the
authorities, the restaurant was closed. It was stated that plaintiff
visited the rented premises at Thaltej and was shocked to find to
his surprise that in place of plaintiff's board, 'Yanki Sizzlers', the
board in the name of 'Sazzy Sizzlers' was replaced. It was stated
that plaintiff tried to enter the premises, but all the defendants
stopped the plaintiff and denied the entry. C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

3.2.5 It was the case that plaintiff had not vacated the
premises and notice for termination was never given. It was the
allegation that the defendant removed books, furniture, etc. It
was stated that the plaintiff had earned reputation and goodwill
in selling the sizzlers, however, by misconducting by committing
illegal act, and by stealing the trade secrets, that is recipe, data
of customers, etc., defendants committed breach of trust, taking
advantage of the fiduciary relationship. It was alleged that they
committed an act of passing off by using customer data,
deceptively similar trade dress and by misusing trade secret of
the plaintiff's business including the recipe for sizzlers, starting
similar type of business to serve the sizzlers. 3.3 Appellants- defendants filed their written statement, and
also the reply to injunction application contending inter alia that
no act of passing off was committed by defendants. It was
submitted that plaintiff twisted the meaning of two common
words, that is, 'Yanki' and 'Sizzlers'. It was stated that word
'Yanki' is used for describing Americans and that is a common
word. Similarly, the word 'sizzlers' is also used for common
recipes. Therefore it was submitted that it was not correct to say
that mark registered was made of words, but it was a label
mark. It was submitted that the Yanki is abbreviated as 'Yank'
and the word 'sizzler' is edible food item, and that both the
words as common are used in colloquial dialogues. It was
submitted that proprietorship could not be claimed for these
words. 3.3.1 It was further contended that upon expiry of the
licence period, the plaintiff voluntarily vacated the premises. The Page 5 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

plaintiff started in full swing the same business at another
premises, it was stated. It was contended that by mentioning
about taking of loan, giving of undertaking for new business
premises etc. the plaintiff did not come with clean hands. The
averments about the defendants using deceptively similar trade
dress etc. were denied. Defendants stated that they had been
using standard common trade dress, thereby committing no act
of passing off the trade dress. 3.4 It may be stated as the disputes arose, the plaintiff filed
CMA No.104 of 2020 under Section 9 of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996 for interim measures in relation to the
premises in question which is pending. The plaintiff also
instituted Special Civil Suit No.151 of 2020 for infringement of
trade mark, the plaint of which was returned on the ground of
territorial jurisdiction. Another Special Civil Suit No.882 of 2020
was thereafter filed for same relief against alleged infringement
of trade mark wherein the injunction was not granted. Appeal
from Order is pending before this court. 3.5 The commercial court below, observed in para 20 of the
order impugned that since the plaintiff had been running the
business of sizzlers since 2012 at the Thaltej premises, since the
premises was owned by defendant Nos.2 and 3 and that
defendant Nos.4 and 5 had been handling all the work, that
leave and licence was also executed and since the plaintiff was
denied the entry in the premises in June, 2020, and looking to
the food item prepared thereat, the offering of sizzlers for sale
may create confusion in mind of the people. C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

3.5.1 The court below observed,
 "Item / commodities prepared by defendant
 No.1 at same premises through same staff /
 manager are same / similar with the items /
 edibles prepared by plaintiff at same premises
 by / under same staff / managers. No
 information is pleaded to have been put at the
 premises that Yanki Sizzlers is shifted to
 another place, there is possibility of confusion
 in mind of public at large / customers of
 plaintiff that defendant No.1 is in any manner
 associated with plaintiff." 3.5.2 The final injunction which was granted by the
commercial court read thus,
 "(i) The present interim Injunction application
 at Exh.5 of the plaintiff is hereby allowed. (ii) The defendants, their agents, servants,
 dealers, distributors etc. are hereby
 temporarily restrained from misusing,
 acquiring, providing and / or offering for sell
 the products SIZZLERS qua business to others
 as well as customers by using similar Trade
 Dress, Data and Trade Secretes i.e. Recipe and
 advertising, Marketing and / or exposing his
 business with identical and deceptively similar
 Trade Dress and Trading Style as of the
 plaintiff's Trade Dress as well as Trading Style
 by misusing Trade Secret i.e. recipe and
 customer Data and by that way committing the
 act of 'Passing Off his goods / products /
 services as that of the plaintiff. (iii) The present order will remain in operation
 till the final disposal of the suit." 4. Learned senior advocate Mr.Dhawal Dave with learned
advocate Mr.Udit Vyas for the appellant assailing the impugned
order of the commercial court, at the outset submitted that the
suit was barred by provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the Code of Page 7 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

Civil Procedure, 1908, inasmuch as Trade mark Suit No.882 of
2021 for infringement of the trade mark and for perpetual
injunction was already instituted. It was submitted that the said
suit was instituted on same facts, therefore, was based on same
cause of action. It was submitted that at that time in the very
suit, the plaintiff was required to seek all the reliefs arising out
of same cause of action. The respondent, it was submitted,
omitted to pray for relief in respect of offering to sell sizzlers by
using similar trade dress, trade data and trade secret and in
respect of passing off. It was submitted that bar of Order II Rule
2 would apply and the plaintiff is not estopped from seeking such
injunction in the subsequent suit for passing off action. 4.1 In order to explain principles underlying Order II Rule 2, CPC , learned senior advocate relied on decision of the Supreme
Court in State Bank of India Vs. Gracure Pharmaceuticals
Limited [(2014) 3 SCC 599], For a similar highlight, another
decision in Virgo Industries (Eng.) Pvt. Limited Vs.
Venturetech Solutions Private Limited [(2013) 1 SCC 624],
was relied on. 4.1.1 It was submitted that though the injunction was
prayed for, in respect of offering sizzlers with trade dress and
style, the plaintiff did not mentioned any detail as to in what way
the appellants used similar recipe, trade dress, trade data etc.
for selling food items sizzlers. It was submitted that the plaintiff
was unable to show that the product was offered in deceptively
similar manner or that any confusion was created. It was
submitted that the entire case of the respondent was based on
conjectures and surmises; in any case, it was submitted that Page 8 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

sizzler was a common name and that there was no act of passing
off on part of the defendants. 4.1.2 In order to explain the conceptual meaning and the
principles of law in respect of passing off, learned senior
advocate pressed into service decision of the Apex Court in Ramdev Food Products (P) Ltd. Vs. Arvindbhai Rambhai
Patel , [(2006) 8 SCC 726]. He then relied on decision of the
Delhi High Court in Britannia Industries Limited Vs. ITC
Limited [(2017) SCC OnLine Delhi 7391]. In that case the
injunction on the basis of passing off was claimed for setup and
color combination in the packaging. The product was Sunfeast
Farm-Lite digestive all good biscuits. It was held that the
purpose of injunction, the ITC Limited had to establish that the
getup in form of yellow-blue combination employed by it had
become so distinctive that whenever any person saw yellow-blue
combination on package of digestive biscuits, it would associate
with ITC, the court held that it was not established even prima
facie and that other distinct and different identifiers existed on
packaging with different product names, trade marks and trade
names, the ITC Limited was not entitled to interim injunction
and that the High Court set aside the injunction order. 4.2 On the other hand, learned senior advocate Mr.Navin
Pahwa assisted by learned advocate Mr.F.B.Brahmbhatt, for the
original plaintiff submitted that the commercial court rightly
allowed the injunction application. He referred to the findings
recorded by the court below to submit that there is every
possibility of deception and confusion, more particularly when
Sazzy Sizzlers served sizzlers from the same place, cooked the Page 9 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

sizzlers under the guidance and management of same managers.
It was submitted that when a person run his business for a
specific edible item for long period of time at the same place, the
place also become part of the identity of the trade name. It was
submitted that defendant Nos.4 and 5 were employees of the
plaintiff and had been handling the recipe, restaurant trade
dress, prices and had also been maintaining the data of
customers. 4.2.1 For contending that the defendant had indulged into
act of passing off, learned senior advocate pressed into service
the decision of the Supreme Court in Mahendra & Mahendra
Paper Mills Limited Vs. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited [(2002) 2 SCC 147]. Two other decisions in Laxmikant B.
Patel Vs. Chetanbhai Shah [( 2002) 3 SCC 65] and S.Syed
Mohideen Vs. P. Sulochana Bai [(2016) 2 SCC 683] were
relied on. Decisions in Fairfest Media Limited Vs. ITE Group ,
[(2015) SCC OnLine Culcutta,23], and in John Richard
Brandy Vs. Chemical Process Equipment Private Limited [(1987) SCC OnLine Delhi 236], in respect of granting of
injunction, in relation to trade secret, confidential information
etc. whereas in Canbank Financial Services Limited Vs.
Custodian [(2004) 8 SCC 355] was relied on to highlight
about the grant of injunction when fiduciary relationship exists. 5. As explained in Ruston & Hornsby Vs.Zamindara
Engineering Company [1969(2)SCC 727], in passing off
action, the question would be- Is the defendant selling the goods
'so-marked' as to be designed or calculated to lead purchasers to
believe that they are the goods of plaintiff ? And in infringement Page 10 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

action, the issue would be- whether the defendant is using the
mark which is the same as or which is a colourable imitation of
plaintiff's registered trademark. The element to be established
by the plaintiff in an passing off action is misrepresentation by
the defendant to the public. What has to be shown is the
likelihood of confusion in the minds of public- the word 'public'
is to be understood to mean actual or potential customers or
users - that the goods or services offered by the defendant are
the goods or services of the plaintiff. The class of persons who
would opt such goods and services assumes significance in
assessing likelihood of creation of confusion. 5.1 In Satyam Infoway Ltd. Vs. Siffynet Solutions (P) Ltd. [(2004) 6 SCC 145], the Supreme Court explained the action of
passing off thus,
 "An action for passing off. as the phrase
 "passing off itself suggests, is to restrain the
 defendant from passing off its goods or
 services to the public as that of the plaintiff's.
 It is an action not only to preserve the
 reputation of the plaintiff but also to safeguard
 the public. The defendant must have sold its
 goods or offered its service in a manner which
 has deceived or would be likely to deceive the
 public into thinking that the defendant's goods
 or services are the plaintiff's. The action is
 normally available to the owner of a distinctive
 trademark and the person who, if the word or
 name is an invented one. invents and uses it. If
 two trade rivals claim to have individually
 invented the same mark, then the trader who
 is able to establish prior user will succeed." (para 13)

5.2 Before proceeding further in respect of the merits of the
issues involved, the submission that previous institution of the
trade mark Suit No.882 of 2021 would attract bar of Order II Page 11 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023 Rule 2 CPC , to the present suit, may be dealt with. The provision
of Order II Rule 2, CPC is mandatory in nature, the requirement
thereunder is that the plaintiff is duty-bound to claim the entire
relief at a time when cause of action is same. As observed in
Sandeep Polymers (P.) Ltd. Vs. Bajaj Auto Limited [(2007)
7 SCC 148], 'Rule 2 further enjoins the plaintiff to include the
whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in
respect of the same cause of action. If the plaintiff omits to sue
or intentionally relinquishes any portion of his claim, it is not
permissible for him to sue in respect of the portion so omitted or
relinquished afterwards. 5.2.1 In State Bank of India (supra), the principle was
reiterated thus,
 "The above-mentioned decisions categorically
 lay down the law that if a plaintiff is entitled to
 seek reliefs against the defendant in respect of
 the same cause of action, the plaintiff cannot
 split up the claim so as to omit one part to the
 claim and sue for the other. If the cause of
 action is same, the plaintiff has to place all his
 claims before the Court in one suit, as Order 2
 Rule 2, CPC is based on the cardinal principle
 that defendant should not be vexed twice for
 the same cause. " (para 11)

5.2.2 It was highlighted that the provision requires unity of
all claims where cause of action is one. C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

 (para 12)

5.2.3 The object of the provision and the situations in
which it would operate came to be explained thus,
 "The object behind the enactment of the
 provisions of Order II Rule 2 of the CPC as
 already discussed by us, namely, that Order II
 Rule 2 of the CPC seeks to avoid multiplicity of
 litigations on same cause of action. If that is
 the true object of the law, on which we do not
 entertain any doubt, the same would not stand
 fully subserved by holding that the provisions
 of Order II Rule 2 of the CPC will apply only if
 the first suit is disposed of and not in a
 situation where the second suit has been filed
 during the pendency of the first suit. Rather, Order II, Rule 2 of the CPC will apply to both
 the aforesaid situations." (para 17)

5.2.4 In Carlsberg Breweries A/S. Vs. Som Distilleries
Breweries Ltd. [AIR 2019 Delhi], Full Bench of Delhi High
Court observed that in such cases, composite suit would have
been filed for infringement and passing off on the count that the
goods of the defendant were imitation that is identical or
deceptively similar, to the goods of the plaintiff. 5.2.5 Following was stated by the Delhi High Court in para
64A. 5.3 Though conceptually infringement and passing off are in a
way different, in ultimate analysis both presupposes an inquiry
whether the trade mark attached to the product or service is
likely to deceive or cause confusion. The action for infringement
of trade mark as well as the passing off action would be based on
similar set of facts. The cause of action is bundle of facts.
Therefore, where the facts are same to constitute the cause of
action, it would remain the same. The test of deceptive similarity
have to be applied with set of same facts. In other words, it
could be said that on the same bundle of facts, the infringement
of action as well as passing off action would lie. 5.4 In Ramdev Food Products (P.) Limited (supra), the
Supreme Court observed that the test for determination of
dispute could be same where a cause of action for passing off
arises, the deceptively similar test would be applicable. The
Supreme Court then explained,

 "PASSING OFF - INFRINGEMENT
 Although, the defendant may not be using the
 actual trade mark of the plaintiff, the get up of
 the defendant's goods may be so much like the
 plaintiff's that a clear case of passing off could
 be proved. It is also possible that the
 defendant may be using the plaintiff's mark,
 the get up of the defendant's goods may be so
 different from the get up of the plaintiff's
 goods and the prices also may be so different
 that there would be no probability of
 deception of the public. However, in an
 infringement action, an injunction would be Page 14 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

 issued if it is proved that the defendant is
 improperly using the plaintiff's mark. In an
 action for infringement where the defendant's
 trade mark is identical with the plaintiff's
 mark, the Court will not enquire whether the
 infringement is such as is likely to deceive or
 cause confusion. The test, therefore, is as
 to likelihood of confusion or deception
 arising from similarity of marks is the
 same both in infringement and passing off
 actions." (para 91)
 (emphasis supplied)

5.4.1 The test of similarity and therefore cause of action
comprised of bundle of facts would be the same, reiterated the
Supreme Court in Ruston Hornsby Limited (supra) to
observe, 'the test of likelihood of confusion or deception arising
from similarity of marks is the same, both in infringement and
passing off actions.' In Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma Vs.
Navratna Pharmaceuticals Laboratories [AIR 1965 SC
980], the Supreme Court explained that the same cause of
action arises as the attendant facts would be the same in both,
 "These matters which are of the essence of the
 cause of action for relief on the ground of
 passing off play but a limited role in an action
 for infringement of a registered trade mark by
 the registered proprietor who has a statutory
 right to that mark and who has a statutory
 remedy for the event of the use by another of
 that mark or a colourable imitation thereof.
 While an action for passing off is a Common
 Law remedy being in substance an action for
 deceit, that is, a passing off by a person of his
 own goods as those of another, that is not the
 gist of an action for infringement. The action
 for infringement is a statutory remedy
 conferred on the registered proprietor of a
 registered trade mark for the vindication of the
 exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in
 relation to those goods" (Vide Section 21 of the Page 15 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

 Act). The use by the defendant of the trade
 mark of the plaintiff is not essential in an action
 for passing off, but is the sine qua non in the
 case of an action for infringement. No doubt,
 where the evidence in respect of passing
 off consists merely of the colourable use of
 a registered trade mark, the essential
 features of both the actions might coincide
 in the sense that what would be a
 colourable imitation of a trade mark in a
 passing off action would also be such in an
 action for infringement of the same trade
 mark". (para 95)
 (emphasis supplied)

5.4.2 In Bombay High Court in Hindustan Unilever
Limited Vs. An Opposing Party being Interim Application
No.3766 of 2021 in Commercial Suit No.3761 of 2021, it was
observed that setting out two separate prayers, one for
infringement and one for passing off is a singularly unwise
practice. 5.5 The expression cause of action means a situation or state
of facts which entitles a party to maintain an action in court. The
cause of action is not evidence. It is not a principle to be applied
even to in the process of adjudication. Cause of action is simply
assembling of facts. It is group of operative facts. Such group of
facts may be good and valid for claiming more than one relief.
Such would be the case when one sues for infringement of
trademark or institutes a passing off action. 5.6 It has to be held in the facts of the present case that
respondent plaintiff had instituted the Trade Mark Suit No.882
of 2021 for infringement, in which though the set of facts
constituting cause of action were same. The plaintiff did not seek Page 16 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

relief on the ground of passing off, in the previous suit. The
contention that the subsequent suit for passing off action is
barred by Order II Rule 2, CPC , could not be brushed aside
lightly. 6. Now, irrespective of above, adverting to the merits of the
case and that of the impugned order, the reasoning of the court
below could be said to be flawed on several counts. Firstly, that
the prior user of the premises and running of restaurant
business for serving sizzlers, could be traced in favor of the
appellants. There is no gainsaying that while the plaintiff started
business in the year 2012, well before that, since 2009 the
defendants were serving the sizzlers in the restaurant though
run with different name- Kitchen Kraft. The business premises
was known and identifiable for the edible item sizzlers.
Appellant Nos.2 and 3 were the lawful owners of the premises
and respondent was only licencee. In S.S.Syed Mohideen (supra), the Supreme Court recognized the prior user to be a
superior right. 6.1 For the injunction of the kind granted, there is total dearth
of prima facie case. The respondent has not pleaded with clarity
and with requisite details that deceptively similar trade dress or
trade style were used, except giving vague reference to the
design of menu card and table carpet. It was the case of the
defendant that there was no iota of similarity in them. Though it
was the specific case of the plaintiff respondents that the
appellants used similar trade dress, trade data, recipes and
trade secrets of Yanki Sizzlers, the court below has not recorded Page 17 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

such finding even prima facie. In such circumstances, in absence
of proper pleadings, and factual details the court committed
error in granting injunction. For exercising powers under Order
XXXIX Rule 1, 2, CPC, specially for grant of injunction in trade
mark suits, the case must be supported by adequate and cogent
material to establish infringement or passing off, as the case
may be. 6.2 Furthermore, when the nature of injunction granted by the
court below is considered, it is incapable of being implemented
inasmuch as the court has not restrained the appellants from
selling the sizzlers. The restraint order is in respect of using
similar trade dress, trade data and trade secret. Such
unworkable injunction could not have been granted in law. The
appellants claim to be using their own different recipe. These
aspects to be established on evidence. Without sufficient
material establishing prima facie case in that regard, the
injunction was not liable to be granted. 6.3 The weighty aspect ignored by the commercial court below
in granting the injunction is that the word 'sizzlers' represent an
edible item. It is common name of food item. When one says
'sizzler', one does not indicate to any distinct food product.
'Sizzler' is generic word representing a common food. The
injunction is granted in respect of selling of sizzlers together
based on trade style and trade dress for which no material was
available on record. Even if the combination of words 'Yanki' and
'Sizzler' are taken together, the 'Yanki Sizzler' and 'Sazzy
Sizzler' do not have phonetic similarity. The class of consumers
eater who would be fond of sizzlers would easily recognize the Page 18 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

difference between Yanki and Sazzy as per their choice. There is
no scope of confusion or deceptive similarity in sizzlers- a
common food item- offered by the parties. 6.4 The competing label words in the present case 'Yanki
Sizzlers' and 'Sazzy Sizzlers', as already noticed 'sizzler' is
common food name which cannot be subject matter of distinct
trademark. It is universally identified food stuff in similar way.
The distinguishing mark are 'Yanki' and 'Sazzy'. In addition that
both do not have phonetic similarity and both would leave
distinct impression in the minds of sizzler likers who would
exercise their preference by remembering such distinct name,
the words 'Yanki' and 'Sazzy' could be viewed as a domain name.
The sale of sizzlers by both the parties could be distinguished by
this domain name. In the modern commercial world, such
domain name operated to differentiate the goods or services
which are otherwise similar but associated with different service
providers or sellers. 6.5 In Satyam Infoway Ltd. (supra), the concept of domain
name was highlighted, the Supreme Court stated,
 "The original role of a domain name was no
 doubt to provide an address for computers on
 the internet. But the internet has development
 from a mere means of communication to a
 mode of carrying on commercial activity. With
 the increase of commercial activity on the
 internet, a domain name is also used as
 business identifier. Therefore, the domain
 name not only serves as an address for
 internet communication but also identifies the
 specific internet site. In the commercial field,
 each domain name owner provides
 information/services which are associated with
 such domain name. Thus domain name may Page 19 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

 pertain to provision of services within the
 meaning of Section 2(z) . A domain name is
 easy to remember and use, and is chosen as an
 instrument of commercial enterprise not only
 because it facilitates the ability of consumers
 to navigate the Internet to find websites they
 are looking for, but also at the same time,
 services to identify and distinguish the
 business itself, or its goods or services, and to
 specify its corresponding online internet
 location. Consequently a domain name as an
 address must, of necessary, be peculiar and
 unique and where a domain name is used in
 connection with a business, the value of
 maintaining an exclusive identity becomes
 critical." (para 12)

6.6 It was further observed by quoting Information Technology
Law Diane Rowland & Elizabeth Macdonald [2nd Edition Pg.521],
 "As more and more commercial enterprises
 trade or advertise their presence on the web,
 domain names have become more and more
 valuable and the potential for dispute is high. Whereas large number of trademarks
 containing the same name can comfortably co-
 exist because they are associated with
 different products, belong to business in
 different jurisdictions etc., the distinctive
 nature of the domain name providing global
 exclusivity is much sought after. The fact that
 many consumers searching of a particular site
 are likely, in the first place, to try and guess its
 domain name has further enhanced this value." 6.7 When the Yanki Sizzler and Sazzy Sizzler co-exists to offer
and sell generic food item called sizzler, they could be said to be
standing distinguished by their domain name Yanki and Sazzy.
These two domain named phonetically and visually dissimilar
rule out the possibility of deception and confusion among the
class of customers of sizzlers. The specific class of consumers Page 20 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023 C/AO/65/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 31/03/2023

has always special choice for the food they like and they always
remember the distinction. 7. For all the forgoing reasons and discussion, order dated
27.1.2022 passed by learned Special Judge, Commercial Court -
8th Additional District Judge, Ahmedabad (Rural) at Mirzapur,
below Exh.5 in Trade Mark Suit No.8 of 2021 is hereby set aside.
The Appeal from Order stands allowed. In view of disposal of the Appeal from Order, the Civil
Application will not survive. Accordingly, it is disposed of. (N.V.ANJARIA, J)

 (SANDEEP N. BHATT,J)
Manshi Page 21 of 21 Downloaded on : Thu Apr 06 20:32:08 IST 2023