The Government of India has released the Operational Guidelines for the Namo Drone Didi Scheme. Women Self Help Groups (SHGs) will be the primary beneficiaries of the scheme, specifically targeting 14,500 selected groups.

The scheme aims to provide drones for agricultural purposes, allowing women to offer rental services for applying liquid fertilizers and pesticides. It is set to be implemented over two years, from 2024 to 2026. The scheme will be operational across various rural regions of India. The government will provide 80% financial assistance for drone purchases, and associated expenses, up to a maximum of Rs 8 lakh. Selected members will undergo training for drone operation and agricultural applications.

Moreover, Rs. 1,261 crore has been allocated for this initiative by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.

The Namo Drone Didi Scheme signifies a step away from the traditional use of drone technology in India, which has primarily focused on military use and surveillance .

Moreover, Lead Fertilizer Companies will play a crucial role in the implementation of the scheme, coordinating with state departments, drone manufacturers, and farmers.

Drones are classified by the Central Government based on their maximum all-up weight, including payload, into the following categories:

Additionally, the maximum altitude for flying a drone in India is 400 feet (120 meters) above ground level (AGL)

The operational guidelines for the Namo Drone Didi Scheme state that for medium rotorcraft specifically, the drone must operate within the vLOS and below the altitude restriction of 400 feet.

While the government has reportedly said that it will provide 80% financial assistance, the scheme requires SHGs to raise the remaining 20% of the cost through loans. This may push financially vulnerable groups into debt, especially if the economic returns from drone usage in agriculture do not meet expectations. The loan-based model could amplify financial risks, making it challenging for SHGs to gain net economic benefits.

These operational guidelines lack details on how the initiative will enhance women’s income or create more employment opportunities.

Moreover, other agricultural drone initiatives by the Government such as Kisan Drone Yatra have also received heavy funding. In March last year, the Agriculture Ministry had announced that funds amounting to Rs. 129.19 Crores have been released for the promotion of Kisan Drones. However, the government had failed to provide answers to MediaNama’s RTI questions regarding the practical application of drones for crop assessment and digitisation of land records .

Drones in agriculture may also require a higher level of operational and technical expertise than what a 15-day training can cover. The brief training period might be insufficient to equip SHG members with the skills needed to manage unforeseen technical issues, especially for complex tasks like pesticide application.

The reliance on Lead Fertilizer Companies to coordinate between stakeholders could add bureaucratic layers, potentially slowing down implementation and making it difficult for SHGs to communicate directly with manufacturers or technical support.

Lastly, the scheme does not address potential environmental and health risks associated with aerial pesticide application, which could have unintended consequences for rural communities.

Last year, conservationists had warned that increased use of drones in pesticide application could threaten biodiversity in the ecologically sensitive Nilgiris district, Tamil Nadu, as per a report by The Hindu . They had expressed concern that aerial spraying could harm pollinators and damage fragile ecosystems.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event