We missed this earlier: The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) recently reached out to social media platforms and internet-based search engines to crack down on online investment scams, a press release revealed.

The Indian securities market regulator remarked that this move is in line with global developments, citing the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), which, in May 2025, highlighted the critical role of “platform providers” in curbing online fraud.

Notably, the IOSCO urged these platform providers to “enhance efforts to reduce the risk of financial harm to investors.”

SEBI has asked social media platforms and search engines to immediately prioritise and fast-track the following:

SEBI has urged investors to exercise extreme caution and:

SEBI announced on October 1 this year that it had successfully rolled out the Validated UPI Handles and SEBI Check features for investors.

The Unified Payments Interface (UPI) IDs of all SEBI-registered investor-facing intermediaries will include the “@valid” handle, along with category-specific suffixes such as .brk for brokers and .mf for mutual funds.

A distinctive “thumbs-up inside a green triangle” icon will appear to confirm transaction authenticity when a payment is made through a @valid UPI handle. Notably, the absence of this icon serves as a warning that the investor may be transacting with an unauthorised entity.

“This facility (Validated UPI Handles) complements existing payment modes, allowing investors the flexibility to continue using the method they are most comfortable with,” SEBI stated in its press release last month.

Through this feature, investors can verify the authenticity of all SEBI-registered intermediaries using bank account numbers and IFSC (Indian Financial System Code), or the @valid UPI ID of entities, by visiting the SEBI Check platform or the Saarthi application.

“These initiatives underscore SEBI’s continued commitment to safeguard investors, uphold market integrity, and build robust digital trust in India’s securities market ecosystem,” the regulator added.

SEBI’s latest advisory for social media platforms and search engines comes in the wake of stock market scams conducted via social media catching the regulator’s attention.

For context, such scams often lure victims through unsolicited messages containing links to join WhatsApp or Telegram groups that promise extraordinarily high returns, sometimes even claiming profits up to 100 times the initial investment.

Interestingly, fraudsters can even impersonate SEBI-registered intermediaries, public figures, celebrities, and top government executives to hoodwink investors especially on the internet.

For instance , a fake video claiming that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched an investment plan promising Rs 1.25 lakh in daily returns on a Rs 21,000 investment went viral on social media in July this year. The video, created using AI-based deepfake technology, was aimed at defrauding the public.

In this light, SEBI’s latest move takes a preventive rather than reactive approach in the digital space, a crucial step to safeguard investors and maintain trust across India’s financial ecosystem.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event