1. The petitioners in the instant petition filed under Section 482 Cr PC

seek quashment of Criminal Complaint titled "Mst Sheenum Qayoom vs

Aabid Rasheed and others" (for short „the impugned complaint')

proceedings initiated thereon pending before the Court of Judicial Magistrate

2nd Additional Munsiff, Srinagar ( for short 'the Magistrate) along with

order dated 22.07.2022 (for short the 'impugned order'). 2. Before adverting to the grounds of challenge urged in the petition in

hand, a brief background emerging therefrom reveals that one Aabid Rashid

Qureshi, (an adopted son of petitioner herein) came to be married to

respondent herein in the month of June 2014 which marriage to the ill luck 2 CM(M) No. 464/2022 remained turbulent and resulted into its termination upon pronouncement of

„Talak‟ by the said Aabid Rashid Qureshi on 15.12.2021. The said Aabid

Rashid Qureshi and respondent herein after their marriage are stated to have

been putting up separately from the petitioners since 08.03.2021 and the

petitioners claim to have been residing in their single story residential house

being owned and possessed by them situated at Sector-B, Jeelan-abad

Colony, Peerbagh, Hyderpora, Srinagar living post retirement life being

doctors and suffering from multiple ailments. 3. The respondent herein is stated to have filed an application under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005

(for short „the Act‟) on 26.02.2022 against her above named ex-husband

Aabid Rashid Qureshi and the petitioners herein alleging therein commission

of domestic violence upon her, before the Court of 2nd Additional Munsiff,

Srinagar. 4. The impugned Criminal Complaint also simultaneously is stated to

have been filed by the respondent herein against the petitioners herein

including her ex-husband for commission of offences under Sections 403 , 406 , 420 and 506 IPC before the Magistrate wherein the Magistrate is stated

to have initially deferred issuance of process and directed holding of an

enquiry by SHO Police Station Humhama and in response whereof, the

Police Station concerned is stated to have submitted a report and on being

not satisfied with the said report, the Magistrate is stated to have sought yet

another report from the Senior Superintendent of Police, Srinagar in the

matter and upon receipt of the report therefrom on 18.04.2022, the

Magistrate is stated to have heard the arguments on 04.05.2022 in the case 3 CM(M) No. 464/2022 and posted the same for orders on 25.05.2022. The Magistrate is further

stated to have directed D.O Humhama to search the residential house of the

petitioners after observing that the petitioners herein did not allow the

complainant respondent herein to enter her room in the said house and to

take back her belongings. On 11.06.2022, the matter is stated to have been

posted by the Magistrate for arguments of the complainant and fixed on

05.07.2022, on which date, the Magistrate is stated to have passed the

impugned order. 5. The instant petition is being maintained by the petitioners on the

grounds urged in the petition. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record. 6. The counsel for the petitioners while making his submissions in line

with the contentions raised and grounds urged in the petition would seek

quashment of the impugned complaint, proceedings initiated thereon

including the impugned order dated 22.07.2022, whereas on the contrary,

the counsel for the respondent while opposing the contentions raised and

grounds urged by the counsel for the petitioners would pray for dismissal of

the petition on the ground that the impugned complaint, proceedings

initiated thereon including the impugned order dated 22.07.2022 cannot in

law, be quashed being at an initial stage. 7. Before adverting to the rival submissions made by appearing counsel

for the parties, it would be relevant and germane herein to refer to the ambit

and scope of inherent power enshrined under Section 482 Cr.P.C which has

been laid down and reiterated in a longline of decision by the Apex Court

and recently in case titled as "Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Vs State 4 CM(M) No. 464/2022 of Haharashtra and ors., reported in 2021 SCC Online DV 315".The

saving of the inherent power is designed to achieve a solitary public purpose,

which is, that, the Court proceedings ought not to be permitted to degenerate

into a weapon of harassment or persecution. In a criminal case, the veiled

object behind a lame prosecution, the very nature of the material on which

the structure of the prosecution rests and the like would justify the High

Court in quashing the proceedings in the interest of justice as the ends of

justice are higher than the ends of mere law, though justice has got to be

administered according to the laws made by the legislature. 8. Keeping in mind the aforesaid position of law and reverting back to

the case in hand, in the impugned complaint, the complainant-respondent

herein alleged the commission of offences under Sections 403 , 406 , 420 and 506 IPC by the accused persons (petitioners herein besides her ex-husband

above named Aabid Rashid Qureshi) and the Magistrate upon undertaking

proceedings therein in the said complaint in terms of impugned order dated

22.07.2022, took cognizance of offences under Sections 403 and 406 IPC

and consequently, summoned the accused persons-petitioners herein. 9. Before proceeding further in the matter, a reference hereunder to Sections 403 and 406 IPC becomes imperative, which respectively read as

under: Therefore, there are two things necessary before an offence under Section

403 IPC can be established, firstly, that the property must be

misappropriated or converted to the use of the accused and, secondly that he

must mis-appropriate or convert it dishonestly. Insofar as Section 406 IPC supra, is concerned, the same provides for

punishment for criminal breach of trust. The offence of criminal breach of

trust necessarily involves the fact of (i) entrustment of the property and (ii) a

dishonest misappropriation or conversion of the property by an agent to his

own use or (iii) dishonest use or disposal of the property in violation of the

mandate of law prescribed a mode in which the entrustment is to be

discharged or (iv) dishonest use or disposal of the property in violation of

the terms or any legal contract either expressed or employed regarding the

discharge of the entrustment or willfully allowing some other person to do

so. Therefore for attracting the provisions of Section 406, two essential facts

need to be present and proved, (a) the factum of entrustment and, (b) the

factum of misappropriation of the entrusted property. Thus,

misappropriation simplicitor without dishonest intention would not

attract the provisions of criminal breach of trust. 10. A closer and deeper examination of the impugned complaint would

reveal that the complainant-respondent herein alleged therein that at the time

of entering into marriage with accused No. 1, namely, Dr. Aabid Rashid

Qureshi, the complainant respondent herein brought along with her utility

items as per the customs including gold ornaments, cash so on and so forth,

as demanded by the accused persons including the petitioners herein and

allegedly entrusted the said valuable articles to the accused persons under a

bona fide belief that the accused persons would secure, preserve and protect

the same and that when the complainant- respondent herein by playing fraud

was forcibly evicted from her matrimonial home by her husband accused-1

and sent to her parental home, the complainant-respondent herein left all the

said valuable articles in the custody of the accused persons and that the said

articles were misappropriated by the accused persons including the

petitioners herein while cheating and committing breach of trust. The

complainant in the complaint further alleged that the accused persons

including the petitioners herein were asked by her to return the said articles

to her but they refused to do so and that it transpired that the said articles

have been misappropriated by the accused persons-petitioners herein and

that after refusing to return the said articles to the complainant, the accused

persons including the petitioners herein threatened the complainant of dire

consequences. However, it has been also averred and alleged in the

impugned complaint by the complainant-respondent at para 17 as follows,

and the said averment assumes importance having regard to the facts of the

case: In view of the aforesaid specific averments/allegations in the

impugned complaint, it cannot by any sense of imagination be said that the

petitioners herein have misappropriated or converted the alleged articles of

the complainant respondent herein or converted the same to their own use

that too with a dishonest intention as the complainant-respondent admits of

the position that the articles are yet to be disposed of by the petitioners

herein meaning thereby not having either dishonestly misappropriated or

converted by the petitioners herein to their own use. Thus, in absence of any

such overt act on the part of petitioners herein, no dishonest motive can be

imputed to them simply because they allegedly detained/retained valuable

articles of the complainant-respondent herein in their custody as for the

commission of offences under Section 403 and 406 there has to be actual

misappropriation or conversion of the things by the accused persons to

his/their own use. Furthermore it is significant to mention here that it is

settled law that in the offence of criminal breach of trust though it involves a

civil wrong in respect of which the complainant may seek his/her redressal

for damages in a civil court, yet every misappropriation of property or

breach of trust in the absence of mens rea or criminal intention cannot said

to be justifying legally a criminal prosecution, in short, mens rea or

criminal intention is the gist of the offence sections 403 and 406 IPC. 11. Having regard to the aforesaid position of law and the impugned

complaint as well as the material on record, it can safely be said that the 8 CM(M) No. 464/2022 offences under sections 403 and 406 IPC are not made out against the

petitioners herein. 12. Having held the impugned complaint and material on record not

constituting the offences under Sections 403 and 406 IPC against the

petitioners herein, the proceedings undertaken thereon the impugned

complaint and impugned order dated 22.07.2022 passed by the Magistrate as

well need to be looked into. However, before adverting to the same, a

reference hereunder to the principles of law laid down by the Apex Court in

case titled as " Pepsi Foods Ltd. & Anr. vs. Special Judicial Magistrate and

Ors. reported in (1998) 5 SCC 749" also become necessary being relevant

wherein at Para 28 following has been laid down:- 13. In view of the aforesaid position of law and having regard to the

nature of impugned complaint, record attached therewith, proceedings

undertaken thereon including the impugned order dated 22.07.2022, it is

apparent that the Magistrate has exhibited lack of application of mind and

instead had approached in the matter casually and in mechanical manner. 14. Viewed thus, what has been observed, considered and analyzed

hereinabove, the petition succeeds and as consequences whereof, the

impugned complaint, proceedings initiated thereon including the impugned

order dated 22.07.2022 insofar as it pertain to the petitioners, are quashed. 15. Petition is, accordingly, disposed of. (JAVED IQBAL WANI)
 JUDGE

Jammu
18.05.2023
Vijay
 Whether the order is speaking; Yes
 Whether the order is reportable: Yes