https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 N.KIRUBAKARAN,J.,
 AND
 S.VAIDYANATHAN,J.,

 This Suo Motu Writ Petition in the form of Public Interest

 Litigation has been filed to direct the Respondents 1 to 10 to conduct a

 thorough enquiry and register an FIR so as to proceed against

 Respondents 11 to 15 and their authorised representatives for preparing

 and sending fake interview / appointment letters with an intention to

 defraud the innocent public with an oblique motive and to make unlawful

 gain and to proceed in accordance with law. 2. The issue in this petition crops out of an interview call letter

 allegedly sent in the name of one of us, which, at the first blush, portrays

 that the letter had been issued with an ulterior motive to defraud the

 public at large. A reading of the letter unravels that there is no

 genuineness in the commitment made by the Company and their intention

 appears that they wanted to collect money from jobless persons, by

 falsely promising to secure jobs in private Companies. 3. When the matter was taken up for hearing on 01.10.2017, this 4/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 Court directed the Respondents 1 to 10 to conduct an enquiry on the

 issue and submit a detailed report to this Court in respect of the

 following aspects: (ii) So far, how much money has been collected from those

 candidates who attended the interview and how much money has been

 collected/encashed by way of Demand Draft or any other mode and to

 seize the materials available in the respective offices of the respondents

 11 to 15 including cash/Demand Drafts/or any other mode, collected

 between 01.10.2017 and 03.10.2017? (iii) How many persons are involved in the above conduct of fake

 interview ? (iv) How the Emblems of the Government of India and the 5/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 Government of Tamil Nadu have been surreptitiously used by the

 respondents 11 to 15? (v) Is there any previous antecedent of similar fake interview

 conducted by these gangs? (vi) Whether the fake interview is a part of very big net-work,

 including the involvement of cyber crime under the relevant provisions

 of laws, involving to defraud the people throughout the nation? 4. In pursuance thereof, Mr.A.G.Babu, Superintendent of Police,

 Cyber Cell, CBCID, Chennai had filed a detailed enquiry report on

 13.10.2017, and the gist of the report is as follows: Enquiry reveals that the Mobile Number of the said Kavitha had been

 purchased in the name of one Shivani of New Delhi. 5. On 08.12.2017, the Superintendent of Police, Cyber Cell,

 CBCID, Chennai had filed yet another report with regard to the progress

 of the investigation, which unravels that a lady viz., Chitra, who is a

 native of Tamil Nadu, but, born and brought up at Delhi, played the main

 role and she disguised herself as Shivani Agarwal and Bhumi Bharti and

 collected huge amount from the unemployed youths to the tune of

 approximately Rs.9,28,850/- and swindled the money. In this regard, a

 case in Crime No.1 of 2017 under Sections 419 , 465 , 468 and 471 of IPC 8/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 was registered by the CBCID, Tirunelveli City on 20.10.2017, pursuant

 to which, the accused was arrested in Delhi and produced before the local

 Court and remanded to judicial custody on 04.11.2017 by the Judicial

 Magistrate, Tirunelveli. Though the accused Chitra named one Prathap

 @ Raju as co-accused, who had involved in the conspiracy along with

 her, the identity of the co-accused, viz. Prathap @ Raju, could not be

 established. 6. Subsequent thereto, one more Investigation Report has been

 filed by Mr.N.Stephen Jesubatham, Superintendent of Police, Special

 Investigation Division, CBCID, Egmore, Chennai on 26.04.2018, giving

 the details of the investigation, a perusal of which unearths that as many

 as 80 persons, who deposited the money pursuant to the fake

 advertisement given by the accused, were examined. The main accused

 viz. Chitra was released on conditional bail on 12.01.2018 as per the

 orders of the learned Judicial Magistrate-I, Tirunelveli and she has been

 complying with the said order. As per the statement of the main accused,

 the co-accused viz. Pratap and Raj printed fake appointment orders, they 9/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 were still absconding and all efforts are being made to trace out them. 7. Even though the disgusting and fraudulent activities were

 carved out and brought to light by Bharathiraja, the method adopted by

 him, namely, providing the mobile number of a Sitting Judge, was not

 acceptable. However, considering the fact that there was no criminal

 intent on the part of Bharathiraja, based on the undertaking given by him

 to the effect that he will not indulge in such activities in future, this Court

 specifically directed the respondent police not to register any case against

 him. Bharathiraja was also directed to extend his fullest cooperation to

 the respondent Police and to retain his Mobile No.9080023868 till

 completion of investigation by the Respondent Police. From the enquiry

 report, it was obvious that there was no involvement in the offence of job

 racketing by the respondents 11 to 15, which are real Recruitment

 Agencies, their names were ordered to be deleted from the array of

 Respondents. 8. On the previous hearing, viz., 12.08.2021, it was represented by 10/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 the learned Government Advocate (Crl.Side) that after registration of an

 FIR in this case, one accused, namely, Chitra was arrested and released

 on bail. Though she had hinted the involvement of some other accused in

 the offence, there was no identity of the co-accused, pursuant to which,

 there was a slight backlog in the progress of investigation and the

 Respondent Police could not file the Charge Sheet. 9. The FIR in this case was registered as early as on 20.10.2017.

 Even though a lady accused was nabbed, remanded to custody and

 subsequently, released on bail by the Court below, still the investigation

 moves in a snail-paced and dawdling manner, as the whereabouts of

 other co-accused are not traceable. Therefore, we are of the view that the

 Respondent Police, instead of spending time in search of other accused

 and keeping in abeyance a criminal case without any progress for quite a

 long time, shall split up the case in respect of the accused Chitra and

 complete all other formalities, such as filing of charge sheet before the

 concerned jurisdictional Magistrate (within a month from today), if not

 already filed, cooperating for smooth conduct of the Trial in the case, etc. 11/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 It is needless to mention here that as soon as other accused is/are

 arrested, they shall be proceeded with separately for the criminal

 intimidation. After filing of charge sheet, the concerned Trial Court shall

 proceed with the trial of the case without adjourning the case beyond

 seven working days at any point of time and complete the Trial, as

 expeditiously as possible, but not later than six months from the date of

 filing of charge sheet. 10. One of us (Justice S.Vaidyanathan), while sitting singly, dealt

 with the issue of fake employment elaborately in the case of A. Perumal

 vs. State and Others , reported in 2015 (2) MLJ (Crl) 669 and observed

 as follows: If ultimately, he is cheated, his entire future will be in peril
 and it is not easy to restore normalcy in life by overcoming
 from the situation. In my firm view, these white-collar
 crimes, which have drastic effects, should be dealt with iron
 hands and severe punishment should be awarded to the
 culprits. The innocent persons who, later realized that they
 were cheated, used to approach the concerned police only
 and ventilate their grievances by lodging the complaints and
 request to apprehend the persons and recover the amount.” 11. There is one another scam called as “Nigerian 419 Scam”, in

 which, the criminals, who indulge in such activities, are generally

 regarded as Nigerian Scammers and 419 refers to Article 419 of their

 country's (Nigeria) Criminal Code, concerning fraud. The scammers used

 to send mass letters, messages and emails with the sole intention to

 defraud foolish and greedy recipients, who easily fall into their tricks.

 The said offence is also named as an advance-fee fraud, in which the

 victim is convinced to advance money to a stranger with the false 13/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 promise that a much larger sum of money will be returned to him or her.

 Of course, no money would be disbursed to the victim and those, who are

 victimized in the advance fee fraud, would likely be further targeted for

 additional payments, claiming that a second or third advance is

 absolutely required to part with the promised money. The modern version

 of the scam usually takes place via Email correspondence and the so-

 called criminals will also make up a plausible story to explain as to why a

 fee is needed in advance. The Email may claim that a few hundred

 dollars are needed as an “application fee” to get back the large sum

 already won and another common claim is that the wire transfer of such a

 large sum of money involves fees that must be paid in advance.

 Ultimately, innocent people will lose their self-acquired and hard earned

 property due to their foolish act. 12. Of late, several unemployed youth are being cheated by job

 racketeers and anti social elements, especially taking advantage of the

 present pandemic situation, where thousands of people have lost their

 jobs. The gangs at first target credulous unemployed youth and lure them

 with attractive job offers both at Central and State Governments and 14/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 some times in reputed private Organizations. Believing their deceitful

 words and on account of repercussion of poverty, such youth easily fall

 prey into their wickedness and transmit the amount to their account and

 by the time, they realize that they are cheated, everything would have

 almost gone out of their hand, which would further add fuel to the fire

 and anguish in their life, leading to commit suicide as a last resort. The

 method of minting money by utilizing the unemployment problem is

 mushrooming in the recent past and though the amount sought to be

 transferred can be meagre, it will get doubled or multiplied, when

 thousands of people transfer the amount in their favour. 13. Recently, we have come across an unpleasant incident, which

 had taken place in the High Court premises itself that an accused by

 name Raman (name changed), posing himself to be a staff of particular

 section, in which already a staff with the same name has been working,

 collected monies from various persons in the garb of securing jobs in the

 Madras High Court. The persons, who were cheated started visiting

 Raman, who has been actually working in the High Court and several 15/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 enquiries were made about his integrity. The real Raman, upon sensing

 fraudulent act of some unknown accused, lodged a complaint with the

 Police to prove his innocence, even though he was neither a victim nor

 connected with such collection of amount at all. Based on his complaint,

 a real culprit was arrested, who, by way of impersonation and taking

 advantage of the similarity in name, cheated several persons as per his

 own confession statement before Police and the said case is under

 progress now, that too, after intervention of a learned Judge (as

 otherwise, the case would have been thrown to dustbin) and in the said

 case, there was also a cloud of suspicion of involvement of a Head

 Constable / Writer working in the Police Department itself, as pointed

 out by the Complainant. 14. In fine, in order to overcome the growing menace of job

 racketing and tackle the unemployment problem, we suggest the

 Government both at Centre and Tamil Nadu to promote entrepreneurs

 and create self-employment opportunities to youth, depending upon their

 skills, so that the future generation of this Country can be safeguarded 16/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 from falling prey to such money mongering vultures. The Appropriate

 Governments should think of periodically conducting awareness

 programmes to encourage self-employment schemes and must extend its

 helping hands to striving youth for getting loans from Banks and such

 youth may be given substantial reduction in tax benefits. Of course, it is

 true that every unemployed youth will thrive for getting a Government

 job, but at the same time, it should be borne in mind that their young age

 should not be wasted in equipping themselves and preparation for

 Government jobs, instead they can create their own new businesses and

 job opportunities through self-employment. 15. With the above observation and direction, this Suo Motu Writ

 Petition is disposed of. It is made clear that the progress of the

 investigation, trial, arrest of co-accused, etc., shall have to be intimated

 to the Registrar Judicial of this Court every now and then, as a serious

 scam of job racketing is involved in this case and a fake interview call

 letter has been issued in the name of a Sitting Judge of this Court. In case

 any lethargic attitude is shown in the investigation of this case by the 17/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 Respondent Police, this Court will never hesitate to initiate contempt

 proceedings against such erring Officials. 16. This Court wants to reiterate that Bharathiraja, who (though)

 was the root cause to let the cat out of the bag, had given the mobile

 number of a Judge and address out of despair and dejection, so as to draw

 the attention of the Police Officials to book the accused and he is once

 again warned not to adopt this type of strategy in future. Bharathiraja

 shall cooperate with the enquiry, investigation and trial of the case, as

 and when called for. No costs. List this matter for reporting compliance in the month of

 February, 2022. Department of Home, Prohibition and Excise Department,
 Government of Tamil Nadu,
 Secretariat, Chennai-600 009. 4. The Director General of Police,
 Kamarajar Salai, Mylapore,
 Chennai-600 004. 5. The Commissioner of Police,
 Greater Chennai, Vepery,
 Chennai-600 007. 6. The Deputy Commissioner of Police,
 CCB-Cyber Crime,
 O/o. The Commissioner of Police,
 Vepery, Chennai-600 007. 7. The Commissioner of Police,
 Coimbatore City, Coimbatore. 8. The Superintendent of Police,
 Tiruppur. 9. The Commissioner of Police,
 Trichy City, Trichy. 10. The Superintendent of Police,
 Cyber Crime, CBCID, Chennai. 19/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 N.KIRUBAKARAN, J. and
 S.VAIDYANATHAN, J. ar W.P.No.25922 of 2017 (Suo-Motu PIL)

 19.08.2021 20/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/