2024:HHC:14370

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. Appeal No. 161 of 2014
 Reserved on: 21.11.2024
 Date of Decision: 13.12.2024

 State of H.P. ...Appellant. Hon'ble Mr Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Judge.
 Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the Appellant/State : Ms. Seema Sharma, Deputy
 Advocate General. For the Respondents : Ms. Salochna Rana, Advocate.

 Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present appeal is directed against the judgment

 dated 29.4.2013, passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge,

 Kangra at Dharamshala, H.P., (learned Trial Court), vide which

 the respondents (accused before the learned Trial Court) were

 acquitted of the commission of offences punishable under

 Sections 498-A and 306 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal

 Code ( IPC ). (Parties shall hereinafter be referred to in the same 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2 2024:HHC:14370

manner as they were arrayed before the learned Trial Court for

convenience). 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

appeal are that the police presented a challan against the accused

before the learned Trial Court for the commission of offences

punishable under Sections 498A and 306 read with Section 34 of

IPC. It was asserted that informant Vijay Kumar (PW1) had a

daughter named Dimple Sharma. She was married to accused

Yash Pal on 28.7.2007 as per Hindu Rites and Customs. One son,

Krish Sharma, was born to her. The informant provided the

dowry to Dimple at the time of her marriage as per his capacity;

however, the accused Sonia, Yash Pal, Tripta Devi, Kishori Lal

and Lucky used to taunt Dimple by saying what was provided to

her by her parents. Her husband, Yashpal, had physically

assaulted her on two separate occasions. The informant

counselled Dimple by saying that the situation would improve

with time; however, the accused continued to harass Dimple.

Krish Sharma's mundan ceremony was solemnised on 10.2.2011.

Amit Kumar (PW6), brother of Dimple, visited her matrimonial

home on 9.2.2011 to attend the ceremonies. He gave shagun to

Krishan, but the accused were not happy with the shagun. They 3 2024:HHC:14370

stated that no ornament was brought for Krish. Amit Kumar

(PW6) narrated this fact to the informant. The informant replied

that he would arrange the ornaments on the next day. Amit

Kumar (PW6) also revealed that the accused were taunting

Dimple for not bringing ornaments. Dimple told Monika (PW9)

that the accused were harassing her repeatedly, and she would

consume pills due to the harassment. Monika counselled her. The

informant attended the Mundan ceremony on 10.2.2011. He

returned at 4.30 PM. The mobile phone of the informant's

relative was left in the matrimonial home of Dimple. The

informant's wife, Nirmala (PW7), called on the mobile number.

The mobile phone was picked up by Sonia, but she did not permit

Dimple to talk to Nirmla. Dimple's husband-Yash Pal, talked to

Nirmala, but he misbehaved with her. Kishori Lal also threatened

Nirmla and stated that she would get the result on the same day.

Kishori Lal called the informant at 8.30 PM and said that Dimple

was serious. He revealed after about ten minutes that she was

being taken to the hospital and she had died on the way. The

informant and his relatives went to the house of the accused and

found that Dimple had died. An intimation was given to the

police. ASI Kuldeep Sharma (PW13) and Constable Sanjeev visited 4 2024:HHC:14370

the village. Vijay Kumar (PW1) made a statement (Ex.PW1/A),

which was sent to the Police Station through Constable Sanjeev

for the registration of FIR. FIR (Ex.PW14/A) was registered in the

police station. ASI Kuldeep Sharma (PW13) conducted the initial

investigation. He prepared the inquest reports (Ex.PW13/A and

Ex.PW13/B) and the spot map (Ex.PW13/C). He filed an

application (Ex.PW9/A) for conducting a postmortem

examination of Dimple. Dr Pankaj (PW10) conducted a

postmortem examination of the dead body and found that she

had not sustained any injuries. He preserved the viscera and

handed it over to the police official accompanying the dead body.

He issued the post-mortem report (Ex.PW10/B). The

photographs of the dead body (Ex.PW3/A and Ex.PW3/F) were

taken, which were transferred to CD (Ex.PW13/D). SI Tilak Raj

(PW14) conducted further investigation. He recorded the

statements of witnesses as per their version. He filed an

application (Ex.PW5/A) for obtaining the case summary of the

deceased. Dr. Ashish Lakhi (PW5) issued the report (Ex.PW5/B).

The case property was sent to FSL. The result of the analysis

(Ex.PW14/C) was issued in which it was mentioned that

phosphine gas was detected in the viscera. The final report 5 2024:HHC:14370

(Ex.PW10/C) was issued by Dr. Pankaj (PW10), stating that the

cause of death was phosphate poisoning, which may be caused by

aluminium phosphide. Statements of witnesses were recorded as

per their version, and after the completion of the investigation, a

challan was prepared and presented before the Court of learned

Judicial Magistrate First Class, Dehra, who committed it to

learned Sessions Judge Kangra for trial. Learned Sessions Judge

Kangra assigned the case to learned Additional Sessions Judge,

Fast Track Court, Kangra (learned Trial Court). 3. The learned Trial Court charged the accused with the

commission of offences punishable under Sections 498-A and 306 read with Section 34 of IPC, to which they pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried. 4. The prosecution examined 14 witnesses to prove its

case. Vijay Kumar (PW1) is the informant and father of deceased

Dimple. Ajay Kumar (PW2) is the cousin, Amit Kumar (PW6) is

the brother, Nirmala Devi (PW7) is the mother, Poonam Sharma

(PW8) and Monika (PW9) are sisters-in-law of the deceased.

Dharam Pal (PW3) took the photographs of the dead body. Narain

Dass (PW4) took the deceased to the hospital. Dr. Ashish Lakhi

(PW5) was running a hospital where the deceased was brought in 6 2024:HHC:14370

dead condition. Dr Pankaj (PW10) conducted a postmortem

examination of the deceased. HC Sultan Singh (PW11) was

working as MHC, with whom the case property was deposited.

Paras Ram (PW12) accompanied the dead body and brought the

viscera to the Police Station. ASI Kuldeep Sharma (PW13) and SI

Tilak Raj (PW14) conducted the investigation. 5. Accused in their statements recorded under Section

313 of Cr.P.C. admitted the relationship between Dimple and Yash

Pal. They denied the rest of the prosecution case. They stated that

they were innocent, and a false case was made against them.

They did not choose to lead any defence. 6. Learned Trial Court held that Narayan Dass (PW4)

took Dimple to the hospital. Dimple told him on the way that she

had mistakenly consumed poison. The testimonies of the

relatives of Dimple were not corroborated by any independent

witness. There was no satisfactory evidence of the payment of

₹5100/- as shagun to Krish. Dimple had not made any complaint

to the police or Gram Panchayat. The evidence was not sufficient

to prove that the accused had created such circumstances that

the deceased was left with no option except to commit suicide.

Hence, the accused were acquitted. 2024:HHC:14370 7. Being aggrieved from the judgment passed by the

learned Trial Court, the State has filed the present appeal

asserting that the learned Trial Court appreciated the evidence in

a slipshod and perfunctory manner. Unrealistic standards were

laid down to evaluate the reliable and cogent prosecution

evidence. The reasoning of the learned Trial Court is manifestly

unreasonable and unsustainable. The prosecution witnesses had

categorically stated that the accused used to harass the deceased,

and she was fed up with the harassment. She had expressed her

intention to take poison to end her life. Learned Trial Court

ignored this evidence and erred in acquitting the accused.

Therefore, it was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and

the judgment passed by the learned Trial Court be set aside. 8. We have heard Ms. Seema Sharma, learned Deputy

Advocate General, for the appellant-State, and Ms. Salochna

Rana, learned counsel for the respondents/accused. 9. Ms. Seema Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General

for the appellant-State, submitted that the learned Trial Court

erred in acquitting the accused. It was duly proved by the

testimonies of the informant, his wife and his son that the

accused used to harass the deceased. She had expressed her 8 2024:HHC:14370

intention to commit suicide to Monika. The prosecution had

proved on record that the accused had created such

circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option

but to commit suicide. Therefore, she prayed that the present

appeal be allowed and the judgment passed by the learned Trial

Court be set aside. 10. Ms Salochna Rana, learned counsel for the

respondents/accused, supported the judgment passed by the

learned Trial Court and submitted that no interference is

required with it. She submitted that the prosecution witnesses

had made general and vague statements that were not sufficient

to prove the cruelty. The testimony of Monika is inherently

suspect as she did not take any steps to save Dimple's life after

she had disclosed the harassment. Therefore, she prayed that the

present appeal be dismissed. 11. We have given considerable thought to the

submissions made at the bar and have gone through the records

carefully. 12. The present appeal has been filed against a judgment

of acquittal. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 9 2024:HHC:14370

Mallappa v. State of Karnataka, (2024) 3 SCC 544: 2024 SCC OnLine

SC 130 that while deciding an appeal against acquittal, the High

Court should see whether the evidence was properly appreciated

on record or not; second whether the finding of the Court is

illegal or affected by the error of law or fact and thirdly; whether

the view taken by the Trial Court was a possible view, which

could have been taken based on the material on record. The Court

will not lightly interfere with the judgment of acquittal. It was

observed: "13. Considering the reasons given by the trial court and
 on an appraisal of the evidence, in our considered view,
 the view taken by the trial court was a possible one.
 Thus, the High Court should not have interfered with
 the judgment of acquittal. This Court in Jagan M.
 Seshadri v. State of T.N. [Jagan M. Seshadri v. State of T.N.,
 (2002) 9 SCC 639: 2003 SCC (L&S) 1494] has laid down
 that as the appreciation of evidence made by the trial
 court while recording the acquittal is a reasonable view, 11 2024:HHC:14370

 it is not permissible to interfere in appeal. The duty of
 the High Court while reversing the acquittal has been
 dealt with by this Court, thus: (SCC p. 643, para 9)
 '9. ... We are constrained to observe that the
 High Court was dealing with an appeal against
 acquittal. It was required to deal with various
 grounds on which acquittal had been based
 and to dispel those grounds. It has not done
 so. Salutary principles while dealing with
 appeal against acquittal have been overlooked
 by the High Court. If the appreciation of
 evidence by the trial court did not suffer from
 any flaw, as indeed none has been pointed out
 in the impugned judgment, the order of
 acquittal could not have been set aside. The
 view taken by the learned trial court was a
 reasonable view, and even if by any stretch of
 the imagination, it could be said that another
 view was possible, that was not a ground
 sound enough to set aside an order of
 acquittal.'" 2024:HHC:14370

 7.2. With an order of acquittal by the trial court, the
 normal presumption of innocence in a criminal
 matter gets reinforced (see Atley v. State of
 U.P. [Atley v. State of U.P., 1955 SCC OnLine SC 51: AIR
 1955 SC 807]). 7.3. If two views are possible from the evidence
 on record, the appellate court must be extremely
 slow in interfering with the appeal against
 acquittal (see Sambasivan v. State of
 Kerala [Sambasivan v. State of Kerala, (1998) 5
 SCC 412: 1998 SCC (Cri) 1320])." 13. This position was reiterated in Ramesh v. State of

Karnataka , (2024) 9 SCC 169: 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2581, wherein it

was observed at page 175: 21. In Rajendra Prasad v. State of Bihar [Rajendra Prasad v.
 State of Bihar, (1977) 2 SCC 205: 1977 SCC (Cri) 308], a three-
 judge Bench of this Court pointed out that it would be
 essential for the High Court, in an appeal against acquittal,
 to clearly indicate firm and weighty grounds from the
 record for discarding the reasons of the trial court in order
 to be able to reach a contrary conclusion of guilt of the
 accused. It was further observed that, in an appeal against
 acquittal, it would not be legally sufficient for the High
 Court to take a contrary view about the credibility of
 witnesses, and it is absolutely imperative that the High
 Court convincingly finds it well-nigh impossible for the
 trial court to reject their testimony. This was identified as
 the quintessence of the jurisprudential aspect of criminal
 justice." 14. The present appeal has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 14 2024:HHC:14370 15. A perusal of the FIR shows that the informant had not

mentioned any particulars of harassment. He made general

allegations that the accused used to taunt the deceased by saying

that what was provided by her parents to her. Her mother-in-law

and husband had given beatings to Dimple once or twice. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v.

Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 2009 SCC OnLine

SC 1693 that the Court has to see that particulars of the offences

committed by every accused and the role played by the accused in

committing the offence are given in the complaint made to the

police. It was observed: - 16. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

was observed: 17. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face criminal

allegations without any specific instance of criminal misconduct

amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It was observed: "18. The plain reading of the FIR and the chargesheet
 papers indicate that the allegations levelled by the First
 Informant are quite vague, general and sweeping,
 specifying no instances of criminal conduct. It is also
 pertinent to note that in the FIR, no specific date or time of
 the alleged offence/offences has been disclosed. Even the
 police thought fit to drop the proceedings against the
 other members of the Appellant's family. Thus, we are of
 the view that the FIR lodged by Respondent No. 2 was 17 2024:HHC:14370

 nothing but a counterblast to the divorce petition & also
 the domestic violence case. 25. If a person is made to face a criminal trial on some general
 and sweeping allegations without bringing on record any
 specific instances of criminal conduct, it is nothing but abuse
 of the process of the court. The court owes a duty to subject the
 allegations levelled in the complaint to thorough scrutiny to
 find out, prima facie, whether there is any grain of truth in the
 allegations or whether they are made only with the sole object
 of involving certain individuals in a criminal charge, more
 particularly when a prosecution arises from a matrimonial
 dispute." (Emphasis supplied) 18. It was further held that if there is an involvement of

the husband and close relative with an oblique motive, the Court

should read between the lines to do substantial justice. It was

observed:- 19. It was held that in matrimonial disputes, the parents,

including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a molehill,

and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance does not

constitute cruelty. It was observed:- 20. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v.

State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

phenomena of false implication by general omnibus allegation in

the case of matrimonial dispute are not unknown to the Court.

When the allegations are general and omnibus, the prosecution

should not be continued. It was observed: - 21. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

OnLine SC 2621 that general and vague allegations of cruelty

made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

constitute cruelty. It was observed:- 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
SCC 184, this court observed that: xxxx 12. The complaint also refers to a small incident where the
complainant's brother accompanied her to the
matrimonial house when appellants no. 1 and 3 are alleged
to have refused to take her back, but on persuasion by her
brother, she was allowed to stay. There is also a vague
allegation that, when the complainant gave birth to a
second child, appellants 1 and 2 came
and "quarrelled" with the complainant, her brother, and
her parents and threatened them. This Court had occasion
to examine the phenomenon of general and omnibus
allegations in the cases of matrimonial disputes. 23 2024:HHC:14370

In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: xxxx
13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when
parties are forced to go through tribulations of a trial
based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
portion of the observation is as under: Furthermore, no specific and distinct allegations
 have been made against either of the appellants
 herein, i.e. none of the appellants have been
 attributed any specific role in furtherance of the
 general allegations made against them. This simply
 leads to a situation wherein one fails to ascertain the
 role played by each accused in furtherance of the
 offence. The allegations are, therefore, general and
 omnibus and can, at best, be said to have been made
 out on account of small skirmishes... However, as far
 as the appellants are concerned, the allegations
 made against them being general and omnibus, do
 not warrant prosecution. 21. ...it would be unjust if the appellants are forced to
 go through the tribulations of a trial, i.e. general and
 omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a situation
 where the relatives of the complainant's husband
 are forced to undergo trial. It has been highlighted
 by this Court in varied instances that a criminal trial
 leading to an eventual acquittal also inflicts severe
 scars upon the accused, and such an exercise must,
 therefore, be discouraged." 22. The witnesses have also not given the details on oath

and made general statements. 22.1 Vijay Kumar (PW1) stated that after one month of the

marriage, Yash Pal and his mother, Tripta Devi, started harassing

Dimple and beating her in May 2007. They used to ask for dowry.

Accused Sonia, Lucky and Kishori Lal used to harass Dimple. 25 2024:HHC:14370

22.2 Ajay Kumar (PW2) stated that accused Yash Pal, Tripa

Devi, Kishori Lal, Sonia and Lucky used to torture and harass

Dimple regarding the dowry. She was beaten by accused Tripta

Devi and Yash Pal. He advised Dimple that her life would be

normalised with time. 22.3 Amit Kumar (PW6) stated that Kishori Lal, Tripta

Devi and Yash Pal harassed Dimple after some time of her

marriage by saying that she could not perform household chores

and insufficient dowry was given in the marriage. Brother-in-

law of Dimple, Lucky and her sister-in-law also used to harass

Dimple. Tripta and Yash Pal had given beatings to Dimple twice.

The matter was not reported to save the marital life.

22.4. Nirmala Devi (PW7) stated that there was a minor

conflict between the parents of Yash Pal and other relatives

during the ribbon ceremony. Father-in-law, mother-in-law,

sister-in-law, Sonia, brother-in-law Lucky and husband Yash

Pal used to harass Dimple on account of dowry and trivial

matters. The accused were not satisfied with the shagun given on

different occasions. Dimple revealed that Yash Pal and Tripta had

given beatings to her. She did not report the matter to the police 26 2024:HHC:14370

and told Dimple that everything would become normal after

some time. 22.5. Punam Sharma (PW8) stated that the accused used to

harass and maltreat Dimple on the pretext of dowry. She had told

her about the harassment. 23. It is apparent from these testimonies that they did not

contain any particulars of harassment. They did not mention any

month or date or even the kind of harassment. It was stated that

Yash Pal and his mother gave beatings to Dimple twice, but no

particulars were given. The witnesses stated that Dimple told

them about the beatings, but they said that she should continue

with her married life and that everything would become normal.

It is difficult to believe that relatives of Dimple would not have

taken any action when they were told about the harassment. The

fact that they advised Dimple to continue with her marital life

shows that the matter was not considered serious enough to

warrant any interference. 24. The informant stated that beatings were given to

Dimple in May. It is difficult to believe that no action would have

been taken by the informant about the beatings given to his 27 2024:HHC:14370

daughter on the pretext that everything would become normal

with time. Beating a person is a serious matter that cannot be

wished away by saying that everything will improve with time.

The conduct of the informant and his wife leads to an inference

that no such beatings were given, and an incorrect statement was

made regarding the same after a lapse of time. 25. The prosecution has also relied upon the incident

dated 9.2.2011 and 10.2.2011. Amit Kumar (PW6) stated that he

had gone to the house of the accused with his brother Naveen for

the Mundan ceremony of Krish, son of Dimple. When he offered

shagun to the accused, they were dissatisfied with it as they

wanted some gold ornaments. He told this fact to his father, who

went to the house of the accused on 10.2.2011 and paid an amount

of ₹5100/- to the accused, Kishori Lal, to purchase ornaments.

Dimple told Monika during the ceremony that she was being

harassed by the accused and that she would end her life by

consuming poison. Monika advised her not to take such an

extreme step. 26. Monika (PW9) stated that she had gone to the

matrimonial home of Dimple to attend the Mundan ceremony of

Krish. Dimple was upset, as the accused used to harass her. She 28 2024:HHC:14370

(Dimple) said that she was so upset that she would end her life.

She (Monika) advised her not to take such an extreme step. She

returned to her home and found that Dimple had died. 27. Her testimony is not satisfactory. Dimple told her

about the harassment and also that she would end her life;

however, she did not do anything and simply went to her home.

She stated in her cross-examination that she had not even

narrated this fact to Dimple's mother or any other member of

Dimple's family. It is difficult to believe that a person being told

about an intention to commit suicide by another would not take

any steps to prevent such an act. Normal conduct for a person

would have been to inform the family members of Dimple, but

she did not do so. Any person would have taken steps to ensure

the safety of Dimple in such circumstances, but she also did not

do so. Therefore, it is difficult to believe that Dimple had told her

about the harassment and intention to take her life. 28. Poonam Sharma (PW8) stated that Dimple told her

that the accused used to harass her. She (Dimple) also told her to

save her within two or three days. She replied that she would

come to her on the next day and take her back. She found in the

evening that Dimple had died. She also admitted in her cross- 29 2024:HHC:14370

examination that she had not told this fact to the parents of

Dimple, that Dimple had asked her to save her within 2-3 days.

Again, the testimony of this witness is highly unsatisfactory. She

did not narrate this fact to the parents of the deceased. She did

not take any action when she was told by the deceased to take her

life away to save her. As already stated, any normal person would

have taken steps to ensure the safety of the deceased by

removing her away from the accused. As per the deceased, the

respondents were harassing her, forcing her to take away her life.

Therefore, in these circumstances, the learned Trial Court had

rightly rejected the testimonies of these witnesses. 29. Ajay Kumar (PW2) stated that Monika told him that

the deceased had expressed her intention to commit suicide,

which is contrary to the statement of Monika, who categorically

stated in her cross-examination that she had not told anyone

about the intention of Dimple to end her life. Therefore, his

statement, apart from being hearsay, is contrary to the

statement of Monika and cannot be relied upon. 30. Informant Vijay Kumar stated that he was told about

the demand for ornament by his son Amit Kumar telephonically.

He told Amit that he would attend the ceremony on 10.02.2011. 30 2024:HHC:14370

Monika also told him about the wish of Dimple to consume

poison due to the harassment by the accused. He attended the

Mundan ceremony and handed over Shagun of ₹ 5100/- to

Kishori Lal. Amit had also told him about the taunts to Dimple for

not bringing the gold ornament. He attended the Mundan and

handed over ₹5100/- as Shagun. 31. The statement of this witness is also not satisfactory.

As per him, he was told about the harassment/taunts by the

accused for not bringing the gold ornament. He was also told

about Dimple's wish to commit suicide; however, he went to

attend the Mundan ceremony and returned as if nothing had

happened. A father being told about the harassment and desire of

his daughter to end her life due to the harassment could have at

least taken the daughter with him to diffuse the situation. He

would have taken some steps to ensure the safety of his daughter

by calling the respectable persons of the society, but he did not

do anything and simply returned. This conduct shows that no

such complaints were made to him, or they were not serious

enough to warrant any action. 32. Nirmala (PW7), the mother of Dimple, stated that she

received a call from her son on 09.02.2011, who told her that the 31 2024:HHC:14370

accused were demanding gold ornaments as Shagun. Her

husband paid ₹5100/-. The accused abused her husband on the

telephone. A call was received from Kishori Lal at 8:30 pm that

the condition of Dimple was serious. 33. Her statement is also not satisfactory. She stated that

gold ornament was demanded, but there is nothing to show that

she had taken any steps to ensure that this demand would not

harm Dimple. She admitted in her cross-examination that no

demand was made in her presence, which makes it difficult to

believe the version of this witness. 34. Nimala (PW7) and Monika (PW9) admitted that Sonia

was married and was residing in Delhi. They also admitted that

Rahul is serving at Chandigarh. Nirmala (PW7) admitted that

Yashpal was in the Army and he was of peaceful temperament.

Therefore, as per these statements, Sonia and Rahul were not

residing with Dimple, and it is difficult to believe that they would

have harassed the deceased. Hence, the learned Trial Court had

rightly held that the evidence relating to the harassment of the

deceased was not satisfactory. 2024:HHC:14370 35. It was laid down by Hon'ble Supreme Court in Naresh

Kumar versus the State of Haryana (2024) 3 SCC 573 that the

prosecution is required to prove that the accused had created

such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other

option but to commit suicide. The Court cannot conclude that a

woman was being harassed because she had committed a suicide.

It was observed: Vijay Kumar Mahajan [S.S. Chheena v. Vijay Kumar
 Mahajan , (2010) 12 SCC 190 : (2011) 2 SCC (Cri) 465],
 it was observed as under : (SCC p. 197, para 25) 33 2024:HHC:14370

 '25. Abetment involves a mental process of
 instigating a person or intentionally aiding a
 person in doing of a thing. Without a positive
 act on the part of the accused to instigate or
 aid in committing suicide, conviction cannot
 be sustained. The intention of the legislature
 and the ratio of the cases decided by the
 Supreme Court is clear that in order to convict
 a person under Section 306IPC, there has to be
 a clear mens rea to commit the offence. It also
 requires an active act or direct act which led
 the deceased to commit suicide seeing no
 option, and that act must have been intended
 to push the deceased into such a position that
 he committed suicide.' " 19. This Court in Ude Singh v. State of Haryana [Ude
Singh v. State of Haryana, (2019) 17 SCC 301 : (2020) 3 SCC
(Cri) 306], held that to convict an accused under Section
306IPC, the state of mind to commit a particular crime
must be visible with regard to determining the culpability.
It was observed as under : (SCC pp. 321-22, para 16) 34 2024:HHC:14370

"16. In cases of alleged abetment of suicide, there
must be proof of direct or indirect act(s) of
incitement to the commission of suicide. It could
hardly be disputed that the question of the cause of
suicide, particularly in the context of an offence of
abetment of suicide, remains a vexed one, involving
multifaceted and complex attributes of human
behaviour and responses/reactions. In the case of an
accusation of abetment of suicide, the court would
be looking for cogent and convincing proof of the
act(s) of incitement to the commission of suicide. In
the case of suicide, mere allegation of harassment of
the deceased by another person would not suffice
unless there be such action on the part of the
accused which compels the person to commit
suicide, and such an offending action ought to be
proximate to the time of occurrence. Whether a
person has abetted in the commission of suicide by
another or not could only be gathered from the facts
and circumstances of each case. 16.1. For the purpose of finding out if a person has
abetted the commission of suicide by another, the
consideration would be if the accused is guilty of the
act of instigation of the act of suicide. As explained
and reiterated by this Court in the decisions above
referred, instigation means to goad, urge forward,
provoke, incite or encourage to do an act. If the
persons who committed suicide had been
hypersensitive and the action of the accused is
otherwise not ordinarily expected to induce a
similarly circumstanced person to commit suicide, it
may not be safe to hold the accused guilty of
abetment of suicide. But, on the other hand, if the
accused, by his acts and by his continuous course of
conduct, creates a situation which leads the
deceased perceiving no other option except to
commit suicide, the case may fall within the four
corners of Section 306IPC. If the accused plays an
active role in tarnishing the self-esteem and self- 35 2024:HHC:14370

 respect of the victim, which eventually draws the
 victim to commit suicide, the accused may be held
 guilty of abetment of suicide. The question of mens
 rea on the part of the accused in such cases would be
 examined with reference to the actual acts and deeds
 of the accused, and if the acts and deeds are only of
 such nature where the accused intended nothing
 more than harassment or snap show of anger, a
 particular case may fall short of the offence of
 abetment of suicide. However, if the accused kept on
 irritating or annoying the deceased by words or
 deeds until the deceased reacted or was provoked, a
 particular case may be that of abetment of suicide.
 Such being the matter of delicate analysis of human
 behaviour, each case is required to be examined on
 its own facts while taking note of all the
 surrounding factors having bearing on the actions
 and psyche of the accused and the deceased." 20. This Court in Mariano Anto Bruno v. State [Mariano
Anto Bruno v. State, (2023) 15 SCC 560: 2022 SCC OnLine SC
1387], after referring to the above-referred decisions
rendered in the context of culpability under Section
306IPC observed as under : (SCC para 45)
 "45. ... It is also to be borne in mind that in cases of
 alleged abetment of suicide, there must be proof of
 direct or indirect acts of incitement to the
 commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of
 harassment without there being any positive action
 proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of
 the accused which led or compelled the person to
 commit suicide, a conviction in terms of Section
 306IPC is not sustainable." 21. This Court in Gurcharan Singh v. State of
Punjab [Gurcharan Singh v. State of Punjab, (2020) 10 SCC
200 : (2021) 1 SCC (Cri) 417], observed that whenever a
person instigates or intentionally aids by any act or illegal
omission, the doing of a thing, a person can be said to
have abetted in doing that thing. To prove the offence of 36 2024:HHC:14370

abetment, as specified under Section 107IPC, the state of
mind to commit a particular crime must be visible to
determine the culpability. 22. This Court in Kashibai v. State of Karnataka [Kashibai v.
State of Karnataka, (2023) 15 SCC 751: 2023 SCC OnLine SC
575], observed that to bring the case within the purview of
"abetment" under Section 107IPC, there has to be an
evidence with regard to the instigation, conspiracy or
intentional aid on the part of the accused and for the
purpose proving the charge under Section 306IPC, also
there has to be an evidence with regard to the positive act
on the part of the accused to instigate or aid to drive a
person to commit suicide. 23. Had there been any clinching evidence of incessant
harassment on account of which the wife was left with no
other option but to put an end to her life, it could have
been said that the accused intended the consequences of
his act, namely, suicide. A person intends a consequence
when he (1) foresees that it will happen if the given series
of acts or omissions continue and (2) desires it to happen.
The most serious level of culpability, justifying the most
serious levels of punishment, is achieved when both these
components are actually present in the accused's mind (a
"subjective" test). 24. For intention in English law, Section 8 of the Criminal
Justice Act, 1967, provides the frame in which the mens
rea is assessed. It states: 2024:HHC:14370

Under Section 8(b) , therefore, the jury is allowed wide
latitude in applying a hybrid test to impute intent or
foresight on the basis of all the evidence. 25. It is now well settled that in order to convict a person
under Section 306IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea to
commit the offence. Mere harassment is not sufficient to
hold an accused guilty of abetting the commission of
suicide. It also requires an active act or direct act which led
the deceased to commit suicide. The ingredient of mens
rea cannot be assumed to be ostensibly present but has to
be visible and conspicuous. 26. We take notice of the fact that the High Court has laid
much emphasis on Section 113-A of the Evidence Act. 27. Section 113-A of the Evidence Act reads thus: 28. This Section was introduced by the Criminal Law
(Second Amendment) Act 46 of 1983. The Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 and the Evidence Act were amended keeping in view the dowry death problems
in India. 29. Section 113-A of the Evidence Act requires proof : (1)
that her husband or relatives subjected her to cruelty and 38 2024:HHC:14370

(2) that the married woman committed suicide within a
period of seven years from the date of her marriage. 30. Although it is not necessary for us to refer to Section
113-B of the Evidence Act, which raises a presumption as
to dowry death yet, with a view to indicate the fine
distinction between the two presumptions, we are
referring to Section 113-B. In Section 113-A, the legislature
has used the word "may", whereas in Section 113-B, the
word used is "shall". 31. In this appeal, we are concerned with Section 113-A of
the Evidence Act. The mere fact that the deceased
committed suicide within a period of seven years of her
marriage, the presumption under Section 113-A of the
Evidence Act, would not automatically apply. The
legislative mandate is that where a woman commits
suicide within seven years of her marriage, and it is shown
that her husband or any relative of her husband had
subjected her to cruelty, the presumption under Section
113-A of the Evidence Act may be raised, having regard to
all other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had
been abetted by her husband or by such relative of her
husband. 32. What is important to note is that the term "the court
may presume having regard to all other circumstances of
the case that such suicide had been abetted by her
husband" would indicate that the presumption is
discretionary, unlike the presumption under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, which is mandatory. Therefore, before
the presumption under Section 113-A is raised, the
prosecution must show evidence of cruelty or incessant
harassment in that regard. 33. The court should be extremely careful in assessing
evidence under Section 113-A for finding out if cruelty was
meted out. If it transpires that a victim committing suicide
was hypersensitive to ordinary petulance, discord and
differences in domestic life quite common to the society to
which the victim belonged and such petulance, discord
and differences were not expected to induce a similarly 39 2024:HHC:14370

circumstanced individual in a given society to commit
suicide, the conscience of the court would not be satisfied
for holding that the accused charged of abetting the
offence of suicide was guilty. 34. Section 113-A has been interpreted by this Court
in Lakhjit Singh v. State of Punjab [Lakhjit Singh v. State of
Punjab, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 173: 1994 SCC (Cri) 235], Pawan
Kumar v. State of Haryana [Pawan Kumar v. State of
Haryana, (1998) 3 SCC 309: 1998 SCC (Cri) 740]
and Shanti v. State of Haryana [Shanti v. State of Haryana,
(1991) 1 SCC 371: 1991 SCC (Cri) 191]. 35. This Court has held that from the mere fact of suicide
within seven years of marriage, one should not jump to
the conclusion of abetment unless cruelty was proved. The
court has the discretion to raise or not to raise the
presumption because of the words "may presume". It
must take into account all the circumstances of the case,
which is an additional safeguard. 36. In the absence of any cogent evidence of harassment or
cruelty, an accused cannot be held guilty of the offence
under Section 306IPC by raising a presumption under
Section 113-A.
xxxx 38. The question is: On what and where did the two courts
falter? In our opinion, the two courts faltered as they
failed to apply the correct principles of law to the evidence
on record on the subject of abetment of suicide. The two
courts got enamoured by just three things : (i) the
deceased committed suicide within seven years of
marriage, (ii) the accused was demanding money from the
parents of the deceased for starting some business, and (iii) the deceased used to remain tense. We do not say that
these are irrelevant considerations. All the three aspects
are relevant. But there are settled principles of law to be
made applicable to the matters of the present type." 40 2024:HHC:14370 36. Narayan Dass (PW4) stated that he took the deceased

to the hospital, and she narrated on the way that she had

consumed the poison by mistake. The fact that the accused had

taken the deceased to the hospital was not disputed by the

prosecution. The conduct of the accused is inconsistent with

their guilt. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan v. Prithvi Raj , 1995 Supp (3) SCC 410: 1995 SCC

(Cri) 934 that where the accused took the deceased to the

hospital, it is quite consistent with their innocence. It was

observed at page 412: 37. Therefore, the learned Trial Court had taken a

reasonable view based on the evidence led before it, and this

Court will not interfere with the same while deciding an appeal

against acquittal. 2024:HHC:14370 38. In view of the above, the present appeal fails, and the

same is dismissed. 39. In view of the provisions of Section 437-A of the Code

of Criminal Procedure (Section 481 of Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha

Sanhita, 2023) the respondents/accused are directed to furnish

bail bonds in the sum of ₹25,000/-each with one surety each in

the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court

within four weeks, which shall be effective for six months with

stipulation that in the event of Special Leave Petition being filed

against this judgment, or on grant of the leave, the

respondents/accused on receipt of notice thereof, shall appear

before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 40 A copy of this judgment along with the record of the

learned Trial Court be sent back forthwith. Pending applications,

if any, also stand disposed of. (Vivek Singh Thakur)
 Judge

 (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 13th December, 2024
 (Chander)