MediaNama’s Take: The UK court’s decision to leave Wikipedia “Category 1” classification to Ofcom continues the debate over platforms’ obligations to verify users and regulate “harmful content.” The Online Safety Act could compromise internet users’ fundamental rights to privacy and expression.

Wikipedia argues that online anonymity of the editors is central to its operations, as it can enable them to speak the truth and share sensitive information. From whistleblowers exposing corruption to citizens documenting abuse, anonymity remains an important safeguard for free expression in the digital age. Wikipedia can be a platform for such important voices.

Although online anonymity can be misused for abusive trolling or coordinating political propaganda but it doesn’t justify depriving users of the right to anonymity and access to content. Unlike other popular social media platforms, Wikipedia does not operate as an algorithm-driven trap designed to amplify outrage and spread hatred. Additionally, Wikipedia claims that their internal ‘new page feed’ is being categorised as an “algorithm”, which is also not entirely valid. The tool functions as part of their back-end operations and does not directly affect users. In a similar vein, the content on Wikipedia is highly moderated by its editors, unlike regular social media platforms. So, Wikipedia functions as a public resource built on collective effort and trust. Therefore, bracketing Wikipedia along with the traditional social media by classifying it under ‘Category-1’ is not justifiable.

The Wikimedia Foundation lost its legal challenge against Category-1 classification that would require it to comply with additional obligations under the UK’s Online Safety Act, as the judge declined to rule on whether Wikipedia falls under Category 1 or not. The online encyclopedia claims that these additional obligations can lead to the violation of editors’ privacy, as the law mandates the verification of editors. Justice Johnson left the decision to Ofcom.

“If Ofcom decides that Wikipedia is not a Category 1 service, then no further issue will arise,” the court said. The UK government authorises Ofcom to regulate and oversee competition in broadcasting, the internet, telecommunications and postal services. The court also noted that if Ofcom categorise it as Category-1, then the regulator has to prove that Wikipedia hadn’t violated the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and privacy.

Wikipedia described itself as a user-driven content platform and nonprofit charity that does not use a for-profit business model like other popular social media platforms. And, it also said that visitors do not receive algorithmically recommended content and instead they voluntarily choose which content to view and read.

The online encyclopedia says it operates transparently and democratically, with open-source computer code that anyone can access and inspect. It claims that their platform is entirely user-driven, from creating and codifying content to curating and deleting it. It also claimed that users develop its policies and guidelines.

The Wikimedia Foundation and BLN, an anonymous administrator of Wikipedia, are challenging the Secretary of State’s decision to implement The Online Safety Act 2023 (Category 1, Category 2A and Category 2B Threshold Conditions) Regulations 202 5. It sets the criteria for “Category 1” online services, which the Online Safety Act 2023 subjects to multiple statutory duties.

Wikipedia argued that the open and collaborative nature of its platform is incompatible if it complies with the verification duties underlined in the act. Wikipedia argues that if it implements these duties, it will have to grant users the choice to view content generated and edited by verified editors.

They also argued that the criteria under these categories are “logically flawed”, which results in Wikipedia qualifying as a Category-1 service. It argued that if the act requires Wikipedia to comply with its statutory requirements under Category-1 requirements, the platform will need to employ more resources, including staff and technical systems such as data handling processes.

Wikipedia said that if Ofcom classifies the platform as Category-1, then Wikipedia has to take steps to avoid that classification. Those steps may include blocking access to UK users once the monthly limit of 7 million visitors is reached, which is 10% of the UK population. According to Wikipedia’s statements in court, the platform is being accessed by around 26 million people in the UK every month, 3.7 times the threshold set under the act.

According to the Online Safety Act 2023 (Category 1, Category 2A and Category 2B Threshold Conditions) Regulations 2025 , the Category 1 threshold conditions apply to regulated user-to-user services, which include any application and website that directly interacts and communicates with the end user. Under this act, they have to meet specific size and feature criteria, like

Similarly, Category 2A of the OSA refers to the vertical search engines with more than 7 million monthly users. Category 2B relates to the platforms that enable the user to send direct messages and have over 3 million active UK users.

The act defines the content recommender system as any system that uses algorithms, either through machine learning or any other methods, to determine or influence how other users encounter the content generated and regulated by the users and editors.

In its submission, the ministry acknowledged that Wikipedia’s content holds “democratic importance and journalistic content.” It said it could consider Wikipedia an outlier service and exempt it from Category 1 classification. However, the ministry clarified that their “hands are largely tied by the constraints of the Act.”

By going with the definition of a content recommender system under the Regulations, Wikipedia argues that the simple ‘new page feed’ for the reviewers and editors is also bound to fall under “algorithm.” It also argues that this algorithm is different from other social media algorithms, which may favour doom-scrolling behaviour from the users. Additionally, it also pointed out that the regulators failed to define “forwarding or sharing functionality” clearly.

The Foundation also argued that the visitor count per month is “irrational” as visitors might visit the website only once a month and view the information on Wikipedia for just a few seconds, and then leave. But, under the act, even this particular visitor would also be categorised as the user.

The Foundation mentioned during the proceedings, without naming the source, that a single user spends 18 minutes on Wikipedia, compared with a claimed 32 hours per month on sites such as Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and Google Search. Referring to this, Wikipedia said, “It was also illogical not to take account of the time spent by users accessing the service when calculating the number of monthly users.”

Without citing a specific report, Wikipedia’s lawyer Bradley-Schmieg said that the platform falls under the 2% “other” category for user-reported online harm, as per Ofcom’s research. He added that the report found that 56% of users experienced harm from social media, 9% from sites hosting user-posted videos, and 8% from webmail.

This is not the first instance where Wikipedia has defended the editors’ and users’ right to anonymity. During the ANI vs Wikipedia, it refused to reveal the identity of their editors when the news agency demanded disclosing the identities of the platform’s moderators to summon them to court. Judge Subramonium Prasad asked why the names of editors should not appear on every page. However, Wikimedia declined to reveal the editors’ identities. ANI was suing Wikipedia over content on an ANI-related page on the platform, which described the agency as a government propaganda tool.

Speaking of the effectiveness of their anonymous editors, it cited a Berkman Klein Centre for Internet and Society study which found that harmful content, including harassment, threats or defamation, remained visible on Wikipedia’s English-language site for 61 seconds.

Referring to the following sections of the UK’s Online Safety Act, Wikipedia said that compliance with these provisions would fundamentally disrupt Wikipedia’s collaborative model. The sections are:

“Content that has been generated by users whose identity has been verified cannot sensibly be isolated from content generated by anonymous users without rendering the service unusable: articles would, generally, not make sense,” reads the court document.

In Wikipedia’s submission, it said that “the user verification duties would fundamentally disrupt Wikipedia’s collaborative model”. To present their argument, they referred to the following fundamental rights mentioned in the European  Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event