SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Got tired of these scammers. Help.
DATE: 2021-04-06
SCORE: 14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/mlcpf7/got_tired_of_these_scammers_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm fresher and yesterday I created my profile Naukri.com and Shine.com. Today, I received several text messages and 10+ calls from various recruiters. I think they are all from some placement agencies. 

They say there is vacancy in some reputed companies like HDFC, Aditya Birla, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Indigo Airlines etc. When I ask for the location of the job, they say they don't know, it'll be mentioned in call letter and tell me not to worry - I'll get job within 10 km of my residence. Then they go on to tell me this procedure where I have to submit my ID proof and marksheet and then fill up some form which will generate job ID for the interview process. Interview will be conducted in 3 rounds (online test- telephonic interview-face to face). 2 of the representatives said it will be conducted in the afternoon (same date and he called me on 11 am) Then they are asking me to pay money as a security and told me I'll get a refund ( ₹2500, ₹2000, ₹500, ₹99). 

I thought they are scammers since they were asking for money and told them I don't want to pay. They go on to convincing me - Do you want this job or not? This vacancy is open only for today and we can't hold it for too long. You have to make decision now. 

When I told my parents they told me these people might me scammers and told me not to respond. I checked their numbers on truecaller, some of them were reported as scam but not all. Now, I'm confused. And none of the calls were from companies I applied for. 

I want to delete my profile on Shine.com, most of the callers mentioned this website, when I opened this site to delete my account, I saw there is no option to delete it. So, I want to keep my profile hidden from recruiters but I worry what if the recruiters from the company I applied to visit my profile? 

I don't know what to do. Can someone tell me how exactly the recruitment procedure takes place in private sector? How to keep away these scammers ? I kept blocking these numbers, but kept on receiving calls from new numbers.