In the span of one year from March 20, 2024, to March 20, 2025, the Indian government sent X (formerly Twitter) takedown notices about 1132 URLs/pieces of content. This comes as a part of the government’s submission to the Karnataka High Court in the case X has filed against the use of Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . Section 79 protects platforms from liability for the content that a third party posts on their service. Part (3)(b) of Section 79 states that platforms can lose this liability if they fail to remove unlawful content after the government or its agencies notify them about said content.

Besides relying on Section 79(3)(b), the government has also majoritarily used provisions of the Bhartiya Nyay Sanhita, 2023 (BNS, 2023) to justify its takedown notices. Specifically, the government relies on Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and Section 505 (statements conducing public mischief) of BNS, 2023, in its takedown notices. About 548 of the takedown orders feature Section 505, which begs the question: What does the government consider statements conducing to public mischief on the internet?

In June 2024, the government took down six URLs for abusive remarks and derogatory comments against the government of India. It issued these takedown notices under Section 153 (attempting to wage war against a foreign state at peace with India), Section 504, and Section 505 of BNS, 2023. The government also relied on Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971, for issuing takedown notices. The government said that these contents were meant to “demean the Indian government and the democratic process.”

One of the URLs the government took down as per the instructions of the takedown notices was that of Juice Media, which produces political satire content. This was around the same time that the government took down Juice Media’s video about the Indian government titled “Honest Government Ad: India” . The government also took down URLs of people reposting the video on X.

The government took down a video that the Uttarakhand Congress had posted on April 14 2024, which featured Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that he does not support reservation. It called this a doctored video, which it said was being circulated with the intention of creating disharmony among communities.

Besides the PM’s video (which somehow is not a part of the long list of takedown notices in the government’s suggestion), the total pieces of content/URLs that the government ordered takedown for, 482, were enforcement actions against fake videos on the reservation. The takedown orders for these fake reservation videos fall between April 27 and May 10, 2024. According to a report by AltNews , at the time, doctored videos of the Minister of Home Affairs Amit Shah were circulating on the internet. These videos depicted Shah saying that when the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) would form its government, it would end reservations for SC/ST/OBC minority groups. As part of an April 27 takedown notice, the government linked OpIndia’s fact check (on the publication’s site) as one of the URLs for takedown.

In May, the government asked X to take down posts spreading misleading information with the intention of creating communal disharmony under Section 153A, 465,469, and 505(1)(b) of the IPC [for context: Section 505 of the IPC and BNS focus on the same issues]. One of the tweets blocked under this takedown notice was spreading misinformation about how the Association of Sunni Muslims (Dubai), in a fake letter, was asking the Muslim community to vote for Congress.

The tweet further urged Hindu voters to vote for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The government argued in its takedown notice that such content is likely to “affect public tranquility and public order issues and to influence the ongoing electoral process,” given that the general elections were going on at the time. Interestingly, the takedown notice also asked X to take down the tweet of a user flagging that the letter was fake. The user had linked BoomLive’s fact check about the fake letter to validate their stance.

Note: The headline was edited for clarity based on editorial inputs on 02/04/2025 at 7:20 pm.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event