SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Is this some new online OLX scam
DATE: 2019-07-20
SCORE: 88
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/cfhgmt/is_this_some_new_online_olx_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday , I placed an olx ad to sell my old cupboard with a price that was ridiculous (insanely high for a 2nd hand furniture)
After 2-3 hours , a prospective buyer showed interest and said that he will buy it but payment he will do online by UPI. When I insisted for Paytm ,he refused and said that he will do by Google pay / phone pe.

There were several red signals like 
1. He didn't bargain 
2. He was ready to take delivery on his own. 
3. He insisted that he needed QR screenshot as he will do it by computer. So giving mobile number won't work.

Sensing something fishy, I send him a screenshot on whatsapp of my wife Google pay QR code as that account has only minimal balance ., practically nothing
( Even though I used digital wallets, but I am not very pro as I only use for paying electricity, insurance ,recharge bills )

Immediately , he called and said that he will first send 5rs to check if balance has been recieved by me or not and then he will send the rest of the money.

So ,with my wife Mobile in hand ,I was online with this guy , in between I asked that is he from Jharkhand (most of banking scammers are from a particular town in Jharkhand ); he replied yes. 
I questioned that how can he take delivery of a furniture from Mumbai if he is from Jharkhand ,then he said that he is from army and it is for his family in Mumbai; he send me screenshots of a Canteen smart card along with some army ID .
Then he said that he is sending me 5rs ; he then guided me to check my balance in all transactions . When I checked then I noticed that it is showing -5rs and the name was a muslim name not the one which is mentioned in Truecaller and that CSD Id screenshot .

He then told me to accept that request , i replied that according to that transaction it is me who is sending that amount ,not the other way around. 
He then replied that sir you just send me 5rs , once I recieved and the verification is done then I will send the remaining. ( 13000rs(
I told that verification is already done and it is time for you to pay the amount .
Then he just disconnected the line , and since yesterday he is not picking up calls 

In this entire fiasco, I didn't lose a penny ,but can someone enlighten that what this scam is all about ??? What would have happened if I have send him that 5rs.???