1. Vide this judgment, accused Arjun is being acquitted of the
 offences punishable under Section 498A / 304 B of the Indian Penal
 Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as ' I.P.C .') in the instant case FIR No.
 390/2016 Police Station Chhawla, New Delhi for the reasons mentioned
 below. CASE OF PROSECUTION 2. The case of the prosecution, as per the complaint made by
 Mr. Raju S/o Munna Ram is that he had married his daughter Sonam
 (since deceased) with accused Arjun S/o Ravi on 19.04.2015 as per
 Hindu Rites and Rituals and soon after the marriage, the in laws of his
 daughter started harassing and beating his daughter. It was further
 alleged that Sonam was being sent to their house repeatedly on account
 of demand of money and each time she was being accompanied by
 someone from her matrimonial side. It was added that Sonam was never
 sent alone and whenever she used to stay at her parental home, the
 person accompanying her also used to stay there. It was alleged that
 Sonam was kept under fear at her matrimonial home due to which she
 could not disclose anything to them and whenever her husband Arjun
 used to get out of the house, she used to tell them about the harassments
 caused to her by her in laws. Wife of the complainant Smt. Kamlesh i.e.
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 2of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:52:06
 +0530
 mother of deceased Sonam alleged in the complaint that after about
 seven months of the marriage, Rs.30,000/- were demanded by the in
 laws of her daughter which were given by her to her son in law i.e.
 accused Arjun secretively from her husband. She added that despite that
 her in laws kept demanding the money from them and they kept paying
 Rs.1,000/- or Rs.2,000/- after every one or two months. She stated that
 they were poor and therefore, could not meet their demands and
 therefore refused to pay any further. She further stated that despite all
 this, they asked Sonam to bring Rs.40,000/- to buy a vehicle and when
 they refused to pay the said amount, her in laws i.e. her sister in law
 Shivani, brother in law Rahul, father in law Ravi, mother in law Meera,
 and husband Arjun killed Sonam. 3. The circumstances which put the law into motion are that on
 19.09.2016, on receipt of DD no. 19 A, SI Santram alongwith Ct. Mohit
 reached at the spot where deceased Sonam, aged about 20 years, was
 found lying dead on the bed of the room. Accused Arjun i.e. husband of
 deceased, Mr. Raju (father of deceased/complainant), Mrs. Kamlesh
 (mother of deceased), Mr. Ravi (father of accused) and Mrs. Meera
 (mother of accused) were met there. The spot was got inspected through
 the Crime Team and since the death of the deceased had taken place
 within 1-1½ years of marriage, the concerned Sub Divisional Magistrate
 was informed. Mr. Mahesh Dutt, the then Executive Magistrate reached
 at the spot and recorded the statements of father and mother of the
 deceased whereby they did not disclose suspicion over anyone. The
 dead body was got preserved at RTRM Hospital Jaffarpur, New Delhi.
 The hanging material i.e. duppata of the deceased was seized. On
 20.09.2016, post mortem on the dead body of the deceased was got

 Digitally
 conducted and the body was handed over to its relatives. As per the case
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 3of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:52:15
 +0530
 of prosecution on 06.10.2016, father and mother of deceased got their
 joint statement recorded before Mr. Mahesh Dutt, the then Executive
 Magistrate which was signed by father of the deceased. The said
 statement of the complainant was forwarded by Mr. Mahesh Dutt to the
 SHO concerned for further necessary action. On 25.10.2016, on the
 basis of the aforesaid statement of father of deceased, the instant FIR
 was registered under Section 498A / 304B / 34 IPC and investigation was
 handed over to Inspector Mukhtiar Singh. 4. During investigation, IO collected the post mortem report,
 arrested accused Arjun in the present case and recorded the statements
 of witnesses. After transfer of IO Inspector Mukhtiar Singh, further
 investigation was handed over to Inspector Satbir Singh who examined
 various witnesses, recorded their statements, collected the details of the
 dowry articles, got the bills of the dowry articles verified, got the scaled
 site plan prepared from the draftsman, obtained subsequent opinion on
 the ligature material (dupatta) and after completion of the investigation
 filed charge-sheet against accused Arjun, keeping further investigation
 pending in respect of alleged persons, namely, Ravi, Rahul and Maya. COURT PROCEEDINGS 5. In light of the police report and the documents filed
 alongwith the same, cognizance was taken vide order dated 28.01.2017
 passed by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate. 6. After complying with the provisions of Section 207 of
 Cr.PC, the learned Metropolitan Magistrate, vide order dated
 08.02.2017, committed the case for trial to the Court of Sessions. CHARGE
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 7. Vide order dated 13.04.2017 passed by Mr. R. L. Meena,
 the then learned Additional Sessions Judge (South West)-02, Dwarka
 Courts, Delhi, charge for the offences punishable under Section
 498A / 304B IPC was framed against the accused. The charge was read
 over and explained to the accused, who pleaded not guilty and claimed
 trial. PROSECUTION EVIDENCE 8. The prosecution in all examined 29 witnesses to prove the
 allegations levelled against accused Arjun. 9. PW-1 ASI Bala Rani is the duty officer. PW-5 HC Baljeet
 is the Wireless Operator who had recorded the information vide DD no.
 19 A dt. 19.09.2016. PW-6 HC Suraj Bhan is the photographer who had
 clicked photographs of the scene of crime. PW-7 Mr. Kishan Katheria is
 the uncle of deceased Sonam, who had identified the body of the
 deceased in the hospital vide his statement Ex.PW7/A. PW-8 Ct. Nagesh
 had gone to the hospital to collect the Viscera of deceased on the
 directions of the IO. PW-9 W Ct. Sunita is the computer operator who
 had typed the contents of the FIR. PW-10 ASI Surender Singh is the
 Incharge Crime Team who gave his report Ex.PW10/A after inspecting
 the spot. PW-15 HC Prabhat Kumar was the malkhana moharrir at the
 relevant time when the exhibits of this case were deposited in the
 malkhana. 10. PW-2 Mr. Raju is the complainant/father of deceased
 Sonam. PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh is the mother of deceased Sonam. PW-11
 Mr. Vicky is the cousin brother of deceased Sonam. PW-12 Ms. Santosh
 Digitallyis the grand mother of deceased Sonam. PW-13 Ms. Kanta is the
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 11. PW-4 Mr. Mahesh Dutt is the then Executive Magistrate
 who had recorded the joint statements of the mother and father of
 deceased Sonam and also conducted the inquest proceedings. PW-21 Ct.
 Rajesh had joined the proceedings with the IO and the Executive
 Magistrate. 12. PW-22 Dr. Parvinder Singh had conducted the post mortem
 on the body of deceased Sonam vide his report Ex.PW22/A and had also
 given the subsequent opinions Ex.PW22/B and Ex.PW22/C. PW-23 Dr.
 Priyanka had examined the deceased in the hospital vide MLC
 Ex.PW23/A. PW-24 SI Harish Chander Pathak had handed over the
 PCR Form-I to the IO. PW-25 Mr. Akash Gupta is the jeweller who had
 issued the Jewellery Bills Ex.PW2/C1 and Ex.PW2/C2 in the name of
 one Mrs. Kamla who had come alongwith Ms. Krishna to his shop for
 purchasing the said jewellery articles. PW-26 Ct. Ramesh Kumar is the
 draftsman who had prepared the scaled site plan of the spot Ex.PW26/1.
 PW-27 Retired SI Santram Bhardwaj is the initial IO of the case. PW-28
 Inspector Mukhtiyar Singh and PW-29 Inspector Satbir Singh are the
 subsequent IOs of the case. DEFENCE OF ACCUSED 13. In his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.PC, vide order
 dated 04.02.2023, accused has denied the entire incriminating
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 6of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:52:44
 +0530
 circumstances appearing in the evidence against him and stated that he
 had cordial relations with his wife. He further deposed that before
 marriage, deceased Sonam used to work as maid and supported her
 father. He stated that the financial condition of her father was not well
 and he had taken loan from a money lender for the purpose of marriage
 of deceased Sonam. He stated that since after the marriage, the
 complainant could not pay back the loan amount and the money lender
 was pressurizing him to repay the loan, he started taunting his daughter
 that it was because of her that his financial condition had worsened. He
 added that whenever he spoke to her he used to repeat the same
 comments due to which, she got depressed and started feeling low. He
 further stated that on the day of the incident also, her father had called
 her and repeated the same comments due to which she committed
 suicide and he has been falsely implicated in this case. Accused
 preferred not to lead any evidence in his defence. 14. The record has been carefully perused. The respective
 submissions of Mr. Girish Kumar Manhas, learned Additional Public
 Prosecutor for the State and Mr. R. S. Mishra, learned counsel for
 accused Arjun have been duly considered. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 15. In the instant case, the accused has been charged for the
 offences punishable U/s 498A & 304B IPC . The provisions of Sec.498A IPC provide as under:- 16. Cruelty has been defined by the explanation added to the
 Section itself. The basic ingredients of Section 498A IPC are cruelty and
 harassment. 17. In Mohd. Hoshan Vs. State of A.P (2002) 7 SCC 414,
 Hon'ble Apex court held that "Whether one spouse has been guilty of
 cruelty to the other is essentially a question of fact. The impart of
 complaints, accusations or taunts on a person amounting to cruelty
 depends on various factors like the sensitivity of the individual victim
 concerned, the social background, the environment, education etc.
 Further, mental cruelty varies from person to person depending on the
 intensity of sensitivity and the degree of courage or endurance to
 withstand such mental cruelty. In other words, each case has to be
 decided on its own facts to decide whether the mental cruelty was
 established or not." 18. In Smt. Raj Rani Vs. State (Delhi Administration ) AIR
 2000 SC 3559, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "while considering
 the case of cruelty in the context to the provisions of Section 498A IPC,
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 8of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:53:02
 +0530
 the Court must examine that allegations/accusations must be of a very
 grave nature and should be proved beyond reasonable doubt." 19. In Sushil Kumar Sharma Vs. Union of India AIR 2005 SC
 3100 Hon'ble Apex court while explaining the distinction of cruelty as
 provided under Section 306 and 498A observed that "under Section
 498A cruelty committed by the husband or his relation drive woman to
 commit suicide etc. while under Section 306 IPC, suicide is abated and
 intended. Therefore, there is a basic difference of the intention in
 application of the said provisions." 20. In Girdhar Shankar Tawade Vs. State of Maharashtra AIR
 2002 SC 2078 Hon'ble Apex court held that "cruelty has to be
 understood having a specific statutory meaning provided in Section
 498A IPC and there should be a case of continuous state of affairs of
 torture by one to another." 21. "Cruelty" for the purpose of Section 498A IPC is to be
 established in the context of Section 498A IPC as it may be different
 from other statutory provisions. It is to be determined/inferred by
 considering the conduct of the man, weighing the gravity or seriousness
 of his acts and to find out as to whether it is likely to drive the woman to
 commit suicide etc. It is to be established that the woman has been
 subjected to cruelty continuously/persistently or at least in close
 proximity of time of lodging the complaint. Petty quarrels cannot be
 termed as 'cruelty' to attract the provisions of Section 498A IPC.
 Causing mental torture to the extent that it becomes unbearable may be
 termed as cruelty". 22. It is clear from the above settled law laid down by the
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 9of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:53:12
 +0530
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in catena of decisions that for cruelty to come
 U/s 498A IPC , mental or physical torture has to be continuously
 practiced by the accused on his wife. Allegations must be of a very
 grave nature and should be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Cruelty has
 to be understood having a specific statutory meaning provided U/s 498A IPC and there should be a continuous state of affairs of torture by one to
 another. For proving cruelty, it is to be established that the woman has
 been subjected to cruelty continuously/persistently or at least in close
 proximity of time of lodging the complaint. 23. To establish charge under Sec.304B IPC, it is incumbent
 upon prosecution to prove the ingredients of section 304 B. Sec.304-B of the Indian Penal Code reads as under:- (2). Whoever commits dowry death shall be
 punished with imprisonment for a term which shall
 not be less than seven years but which may extend
 to imprisonment for life. 24. A legal fiction has been created in the said provision to the
 effect that in the event it is established that soon before the death, the
 deceased as subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any of
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, "dowry
 death", shall have the same meaning as in section
 304-B of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860)". 25. From a conjoint reading of Section 304-B of the Indian
 Penal Code and Section 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, it is apparent
 that a presumption arising thereunder will operate if the prosecution is
 able to establish the circumstances as set out in Section 304-B of the
 Indian Penal Code. 26. The ingredients of the aforementioned provisions are:- 27. The essential ingredient of Section 304B is that soon before
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 11of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:53:39
 +0530
 her death woman was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband
 or his family in connection with demand of dowry. 28. Adverting to the present adjudication, it is not disputed that
 the deceased Ms. Sonam got married to accused Arjun on 19.04.2015
 and that she died on 19.09.2016 i.e. within seven years of her marriage.
 It is also not disputed that the death of the deceased Sonam occurred
 under unnatural circumstances i.e. by hanging. 29. In order to prove that the victim was subjected or cruelty or
 harassment by her husband (accused Arjun); that such cruelty or
 harassment should be for or in connection with demand of dowry; and
 such cruelty and harassment was made soon before her death , the
 prosecution has examined as many as nine witnesses i.e. PW-2 Mr. Raju
 (complainant/father of deceased Sonam), PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh (mother
 of deceased Sonam), PW-11 Mr. Vicky (cousin brother of deceased
 Sonam), PW-12 Ms. Santosh (grand mother of deceased Sonam), PW-13
 Ms. Kanta (paternal aunt-BUA of deceased Sonam), PW-14 Mrs. Kamla
 (maternal aunt-MASI of deceased Sonam), PW-16 Mrs. Sunita and PW-
 17 Mrs. Nitu (neighbours of complainant Mr. Raju) and PW-18 Mrs.
 Kiran (aunt of deceased Sonam). These witnesses are the close relatives
 and neighbours of deceased Sonam. 30. PW-2 Mr. Raju is the father of the victim/deceased Ms.
 Sonam. He is also the complainant in the present case. While appearing
 in the witness box as PW-2, Mr. Raju deposed that he had four children
 out of which Sonam (since deceased) was his eldest daughter. He further
 deposed that Sonam was married to accused Arjun on 18.04.2015 in
 Delhi. He added that except vehicle, all other articles were given in
 Digitally dowry in the marriage of his daughter Sonam. He further stated that he
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 12of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:53:47
 +0530
 also got video-graphed the dowry articles. After marriage, Sonam joined
 her matrimonial home at Goyla Dairy. PW-2 further deposed that after
 marriage of his daughter with accused, for a period of one year,
 everything was all right, however, after one year of the marriage,
 accused used to sometimes demand money and sometimes bike. He
 added that he used to get a salary around 10 th of every month and on 10th
 or 11th of every money, accused used to bring their daughter at their
 home and through his daughter, accused used to demand money i.e.
 sometimes Rs.1000/-, sometimes Rs.1500/- and sometimes Rs.500/-. He
 stated that he used to give money to his daughter and thereafter, accused
 and his daughter used to go back to their matrimonial home. He deposed
 that accused did not demand money himself but made his daughter
 demand money from them and he used to give money to his daughter so
 that she may remain happy. He added that this used to happen every
 month. PW-2 further deposed that on 19.09.2016, he received mobile
 phone call from accused and after exchanging pleasantries, he asked
 accused to bring Sonam that day as he had taken leave that day but
 accused did not tell him anything and disconnected the call. He stated
 that after about 30-45 minutes, he received mobile phone call of mother
 of accused asking him to come early and when he asked her as to what
 had happened, she told him that his daughter Sonam had committed
 suicide by hanging. He further deposed that he alongwith his wife went
 to the house of accused. He stated that he did not see any signs of
 hanging on the neck of his daughter but he could see that there were
 signs on the lower part of the face of his daughter as if she had been
 smothered. He further deposed that he had given statement to Magistrate
 which is Ex.PW-2/A. PW-2 added that accused always had come
 alongwith his daughter and had never sent his daughter alone at his
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 31. PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh is the mother of the deceased Ms.
 Digitally
 signed by
 Sonam. She deposed that she works as maid in Kothis and deceased
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 14of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:54:04
 +0530
 Sonam was her daughter. She stated that Sonam was married with
 accused Arjun 3-4 years ago. She did not remember the exact date,
 month and year of said marriage, however, the said marriage took place
 at Matiala at their place. She further added that she used to go to her
 work place and did not know what the accused or his family members
 did with her daughter. She stated that her daughter was never left alone
 by accused with her, therefore, her daughter even could not tell her as to
 what transpired with her at her matrimonial home. She further stated
 that two-three months after the marriage, accused Arjun and his family
 members started quarreling with her daughter Sonam. She added that
 sometimes they used to ask Sonam to bring something from her parental
 home and when Sonam did not bring anything, accused Arjun and his
 family members used to beat her. She further stated that whenever
 Sonam used to visit at her place, she was accompanied by either accused
 or his brother. She further stated that Sonam somehow used to tell her
 that she was beaten by accused and his family members. She further
 added that sometimes, she used to give Rs.1,000/- and sometimes
 Rs.2,000/- to Sonam. She further stated that sometimes, she used to give
 Rs.2,000/- and sometimes Rs.3,000/- to accused Arjun on his demand.
 She stated that she resided in rented accommodation and had other 2-3
 children to feed so she could not arrange more money and when
 demands of accused could not be met then he used to beat Sonam. She
 further deposed that on 9th, month and year, she did not remember,
 mother of accused made phone call to her husband and stated that her
 daughter Sonam had hanged herself saying "phansi laga li hai". She
 accompanied her husband to the house of accused. She added that there
 was no sign of hanging on the neck of her daughter Sonam who was

 Digitally
 lying on the bed. There was no electricity and foul smell was coming.
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 15of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:54:15
 +0530
 She stated that her husband made call at number 100. She added that her
 statement Ex.PW2/A was recorded before the Magistrate at Kapashera
 and she had put her thumb impression and her husband had signed the
 same. She further deposed that few days later, again her statement was
 recorded before the Executive Magistrate where she had put her thumb
 impression and her husband had signed. She further deposed that few
 days later, again her statement Ex.PW2/B was recorded before the
 Executive Magistrate on which she had put her thumb impressions and
 her husband had signed. She stated that later she was not enquired by
 the police. PW-3 was cross-examined by the learned Additional Public
 Prosecutor for the State as she was partly resiling from her previous
 statement. During the cross-examination by the learned Additional
 Public Prosecutor for the State she admitted that her daughter Sonam
 was married on 19.04.2015 with accused Arjun and she expired on
 19.09.2016. She further admitted that she gave statement to the
 investigating officer on 26.10.2016 wherein she stated that on
 19.09.2016 the accused and his family had threatened them that in case
 they give any statement against them then they will kill their family.
 PW-3 volunteered that mother of accused was threatening them. She
 further admitted that through her daughter Sonam accused had
 demanded Rs.40,000/- to purchase vehicle and when they could not give
 the said money, Sonam was subjected to cruelty resulting into her death.
 She further admitted the suggestion that 7-8 months after the marriage
 of Sonam with accused, the in-laws of Sonam had demanded
 Rs.30,000/- which she took on loan and after concealing from her
 husband she had given the said amount to accused Arjun after calling
 him at her home. She further admitted the suggestion that due to lapse of
 time and she being illiterate, she forgot various facts.
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 16of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:54:22
 +0530 32. In the instant case, the first statement Ex.PW2/A of PW-2
 Mr. Raju was recorded on 19.09.2016, wherein he specifically stated to
 Mr. Mahesh Dutt (PW-4), the then Executive Magistrate that he stated
 that "मै राजू पुत्र मुन्ना राम अपने बयां ज्ञान संज्ञान के साथ दे रहा हु की मेरी पुत्री
 सोनम की शादी से लेकर आज तक किसी भी प्रकार की लड़ाई झगडे व आपसी मन
 मुटाव की खबर आज तक उसकी ससुराल से प्राप्त नहीं हुई और न ही हमारे द्वारा ऐसा
 महसूस किया गया।". In the said statement Ex.PW2/A, complainant Mr.
 Raju further added that "मै राजू अपनी बेटी की मृत्यु/आत्महत्या के बारे में
 सम्मिलित कारन जानना चाहता हु की मेरी बेटी ने किन कारणों से आत्महत्या की,
 अगर इसमें मेरी बेटी की आत्महत्या में कोई भी व्यक्ति दोषी है तो उसको सख्त से
 सख्त सजा दी जाये". The said statement Ex.PW2/A of Mr. Raju also bears
 the thumb impression of PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh at point B. 33. From the perusal of the aforesaid statement of PW-2 Mr.
 Raju, it is clear that as on the date of the incident i.e. 19.09.2016, the
 complainant was not aware about the reasons of suicide of his daughter
 Ms. Sonam and he was curious to know the reasons of her suicide. In
 the said statement, he has specifically stated that since from the date of
 marriage of Ms. Sonam with accused Arjun till date of her death i.e.
 19.09.2016, he had no information about any sort of discord between his
 daughter Ms. Sonam and her in laws. Since the parents of deceased did
 not level any allegations on anyone in the statement Ex.PW2/A, initially
 no FIR was registered in the present case. 34. The present FIR was registered on 25.10.2016, on the basis
 of joint statement dated 06.10.2016 of PW-2 Mr. Raju and PW-3 Mrs.
 Kamlesh (parents of deceased Sonam) Ex.PW2/B. In their joint
 statement Ex.PW2/B, recorded by Mr. Mahesh Dutt, the then Executive
 Magistrate, parents of deceased Sonam levelled allegations of demand
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 17of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:54:29
 +0530
 of dowry against accused Arjun and other in laws of deceased Sonam.
 On the basis of the aforesaid joint statement Ex.PW2/B, the instant FIR
 was registered on 25.10.2016 i.e. after more than one month from the
 date of death of Sonam. The said joint statement of parents of deceased
 Sonam Ex.PW2/B is absolutely silent as why the facts alleged by them
 in their subsequent statement Ex.PW2/B were not disclosed by them in
 their earlier statement Ex.PW2/A. Further, even while appearing in the
 witness box as PW-2 Mr. Raju (father of deceased/complainant) did not
 give any explanation or reasons for not disclosing the correct/complete
 facts to the police/SDM in his first statement Ex.PW2/A recorded on the
 date of incident itself. However, during cross-examination by the
 learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State, PW-2 Mr. Raju stated
 that his mind was not working on 19.09.2016 so he was unable to tell all
 the relevant facts to the Magistrate in his statement. It was only on being
 suggested by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor, PW-2 admitted
 that accused Arjun and his family members had threatened to kill them
 because of which he could not tell the relevant facts to the Magistrate in
 the statement Ex.PW2/A. 35. Similarly, PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh also did not give any
 explanation regarding delay in disclosing the completing/correct facts to
 the police/SDM immediately after the incident. However, during her
 cross-examination by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor, she
 admitted that on 26.10.2016, she gave statement to the IO stating therein
 that on 19.09.2016, the accused and his family had threatened that in
 case they give statement against them, they will kill their family. She
 volunteered that mother of accused was threatening them. 36. In view of the aforesaid, it is clear that initially no
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 18of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:54:38
 +0530
 allegations were levelled against the accused or his family members by
 the parents of the deceased and the allegations regarding demand of
 dowry were levelled for the first time by the parents of deceased against
 accused Arjun and his family members vide their joint statement
 Ex.PW2/B recorded by the then Executive Magistrate on 06.10.2016 i.e.
 after a considerable period of about 17 days. Admittedly at no point of
 time, any complaint regarding any threats having been extended by the
 accused or his family members was lodged. Further, even the complaint
 dated 06.10.2016 on the basis of which the present FIR was lodged, is
 absolutely silent with regard to the reasons of delay in reporting the
 matter to the police. The said statement is also silent with regard to any
 threats having been extended to them by the in-laws of the deceased or
 that the delay in reporting the matter to the police was due to the threats
 which were being extended by the in-laws of the deceased. 37. Therefore, the possibility of the testimonies of the parents
 of the deceased being influenced, tutored or motivated cannot be ruled
 out. Also it is well settled that conviction can be based on the sole
 testimony of a witness if the witness is found to be sterling witness. The
 law as to when a witness can be called a sterling witness is well settled
 and it would be pertinent here to refer to the settled proposition of law
 on the point. 38. It has been held in Santosh Prasad @ Santosh Kumar Vs.
 State of Bihar dated 14.02.2020 Criminal Appeal no. 264 of 2020
 arising out of SLP (Criminal) no. 3780/18 as under:- examination of any length and howsoever
 strenuous it may be and under no circumstance
 should give room for any doubt as to the factum of
 the occurrence, the persons involved, as well as
 the sequence of it. Such a version should have co-
 relation with each and every one of other
 supporting material such as the recoveries made,
 the weapons used, the manner of offence
 committed, the scientific evidence and the expert
 opinion. The said version should consistently
 match with the version of every other witness. It
 can even be stated that it should be akin to the test
 applied in the case of circumstantial evidence
 where there should not be any missing link in the
 chain of circumstances to hold the accused guilty
 of the offence alleged against him. Only if the
 version of such a witness qualifies the above test
 as well as all other such similar tests to be applied,
 can it be held that such a witness can be called as a
 "sterling witness" whose version can be accepted
 by the court without any corroboration and based
 on which the guilty can be punished. To be more
SHARAD precise, the version of the said witness on the core
 spectrum of the crime should remain intact while
GUPTA Digitally signed by SHARAD GUPTA SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 20of 47 Date: 2025.03.12 18:54:53 +0530 all other attendant materials, namely, oral,
 documentary and material objects should match
 the said version in material particulars in order to
 enable the court trying the offence to rely on the
 core version to sieve the other supporting materials
 for holding the offender guilty of the charge
 alleged." 5.4.3 In the case of Krishna Kumar Malik v. State
 of Haryana (2011) 7 SCC 130, it is observed and
 held by this Court that no doubt, it is true that to
 hold an accused guilty for commission of an
 offence of rape, the solitary evidence of the
 prosecutrix is sufficient provided the same inspires
 confidence and appears to be absolutely
 trustworthy, unblemished and should be of sterling
 quality. 5.5 With the aforesaid decisions in mind, it is
 required to be considered, whether is it safe to
 convict the accused solely on the solitary evidence
 of the prosecutrix? Whether the evidence of the
 prosecutrix inspires confidence and appears to be
 absolutely trustworthy, unblemished and is of
 sterling quality? 6. Having gone through and considered the
 deposition of the prosecutrix, we find that there are
 material contradictions. Not only there are material
 contradictions, but even the manner in which the
 alleged incident has taken place as per the version
 of the prosecutrix is not believable." 39. In Suraj Mal Vs State (Delhi Admn .) AIR 1979 S.C. 1408 it
 has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that "Where witness
 makes two inconsistent statements in their evidence either at one stage
 or at two stages, the testimony of such witnesses becomes unreliable and
 unworthy of credence and in the absence of special circumstances no
 conviction can be based on the evidence of such witness." Similar view
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 21of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:55:06
 +0530
 was also taken in Madari @ Dhiraj & Ors. v. State of Chhattisgarh
 2004(1) C.C. Cases 487. 40. In Namdeo Daulata Dhayagude and others Vs. State of
 Maharashtra AIR 1977 SC 381, it was held that where the story narrated
 by the witness in his evidence before the Court differs substantially from
 that set out in his statement before the police and there are large number
 of contradictions in his evidence not on mere matters of detail, but on
 vital points, it would not be safe to rely on his evidence and it may be
 excluded from consideration in determining the guilt of accused. If one
 integral part of the story put forth by a witness was not believable, then
 entire case fails. Reliance may also be placed upon Ashok Narang Vs.
 State 2012 (2) LRC 287 (Del). 41. PW 2 and 3 in the present case have changed their version
 at the drop of a hat during investigation and trial, rendering their
 testimony unworthy of any credence or reliability and they cannot be
 held to be sterling witnesses by any stretch of imagination and their
 testimonies do not inspire confidence of the court. 42. Even otherwise, a careful perusal of the statements of PW-2
 Mr. Raju and PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh (parents of the deceased) reveal that
 the same suffer from various inconsistencies, contradictions and
 improvements which are sufficient to render their statements unreliable. 43. While in his statement Ex.PW2/B, PW-2 Mr. Raju stated
 that soon after the marriage, deceased Sonam was being harassed by her
 in laws and she was also being beaten up, in his testimony recorded in
 the court, PW-2 stated that after the marriage of his daughter with
 accused, for one year everything went on right.
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 22of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:55:16
 +0530 44. Further in his statement Ex.PW2/B, PW Mr. Raju has stated
 that "मेरी बेटी सोनम को हमारे घर रुपयों की मांग के लिया बार बार भेजा जाने लगा",
 however, while appearing in the witness box as PW-2 Mr. Raju
 improved his version by stating that after one year of marriage, accused
 used to demand money sometimes and sometimes used to demand bike.
 Therefore, while as per his complaint Ex.PW2/B, the demands used to
 be made through his daughter Sonam and the said demands were of
 money, as per his testimony recorded in the court, the accused used raise
 the demands and those demands were of money as well as bike. The
 factum of demand of bike has been introduced by the complainant for
 the first time in his testimony recorded in the court as PW-2 and does
 not find mention in any of his earlier statements. It is pertinent to
 mention that in their joint statement dated 06.10.2016, PW-2 and PW-3
 have referred to 'गाड़ी' but the type of the vehicle has not been clarified
 in the said statement. 45. In the later part of his statement, PW-2 stated that through
 his daughter, accused used to demand money, sometimes Rs.1000/-,
 sometimes Rs.1500/- and sometimes Rs.500/-. He added that he used to
 give the money to his daughter and thereafter, accused and his daughter
 used to go back to their matrimonial home. He further added that
 accused did not demand money himself but made his daughter demand
 money from him. He further stated that he used to give money to his
 daughter so that she may remain happy. From the aforesaid, it is clear
 that that accused Arjun never demanded anything from PW-2 nor he
 ever gave any money to accused Arjun. As per PW-2 the accused was
 demanding money from him through his daughter, although it is not his
 claim that his daughter told him that she was asking for money on
 Digitally instructions of accused Arjun.
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 23of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:55:24
 +0530 46. PW-2 Mr. Raju in Ex.PW2/B stated that " उसके साथ ससुराल
 से कोई न कोई व्यक्ति हमेशा आया करते थे/ उसे कभी भी अके ले नहीं भेजा था तथा
 जब तक लड़की अपने मायके में रूकती थी तब तक वह खुद भी रुक जाया करते थे;
 उसकी ससुराल में लड़की सोनम को इतना डरा धमका कर रखते थे की वह हमें कु छ
 भी बता नहीं पाये तथा उसे कभी अके ले नहीं छोड़ा जाता था ताकि वह अपने माता
 पिता को कु छ बता न दे". While PW-2 Mr. Raju in his statement Ex.PW2/B
 has stressed upon the fact that Sonam was never allowed to visit their
 house alone and whenever she used to visit his house, she used to be
 accompanied by someone from her matrimonial home so that she could
 not disclose anything to her parents. However, the said version of
 complainant/PW-2 Mr. Raju has been contradicted by PW-16 Mrs.
 Sunita and PW-17 Mrs. Nitu, the neighbours of complainant Mr. Raju.
 While PW-16 Mrs. Sunita deposed in the Court that whenever Sonam
 visited her parental home after marriage, she used to come to her house,
 PW-17 Mrs. Nitu deposed that after 2-3 months of her marriage, Sonam
 once met her at her home. From the testimonies of PW-16 and PW-17 it
 is clear that deceased Sonam used to visit her parents house after her
 marriage and that during those visits she was not under any kind of
 restrictions from accused's side and she had been visiting and talking to
 her neighbours. 47. PW-2 Mr. Raju in his statement Ex.PW2/B has further
 stated that "जब कभी उसका पति अर्जुन घर से बाहर जाता था तो मेरी बेटी हमें
 बताती थी की ससुराल पक्ष के लोग उसके साथ क्या क्या दुर्व्यवहार करते है".
 However, while appearing in the witness box as PW-2, the witness
 improved his version and deposed that accused always had come
 alongwith his daughter and had never sent his daughter alone at his
 place, so his daughter could not tell her ordeal to him as accused always
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 24of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:55:34
 +0530
 remained besides her. He added that his daughter told her mother about
 her ordeal. However, this version of PW-2 Mr. Raju has been
 contradicted by PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh who in her testimony recorded in
 the court stated that she does not know what the accused or his family
 members did to her daughter. She added that her daughter was never left
 by the accused with her, so her daughter could not tell her what
 transpired with her at her matrimonial home. 48. In his testimony recorded in the court PW-2 Mr. Raju
 improved his version by adding that the accused used to threaten, beat
 his daughter and demand money. No such claim of beating or
 threatening by accused Arjun finds mention in his earlier statement
 dated 06.10.2016. 49. So far as PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh is concerned, in her
 statement Ex.PW2/B, Smt. Kamlesh stated that शादी के लगभग सात आठ
 महीने बाद मेरी बेटी द्वारा उसके ससुराल पक्ष ने ३० हज़ार रूपये मंगवाए थे जो की
 ३० हज़ार रूपये का क़र्ज़ लेकर अपने पति से छिपाकर अपने दामाद अर्जुन को घर
 बुलाकर दिए। However, in her examination-in-chief, PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh
 did not disclose anything about demand of Rs.30,000/- by in laws of her
 daughter Sonam or payment of Rs.30,000/- to accused Arjun. However,
 on being cross-examined by learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
 State, she admitted the suggestion that 7-8 months later to marriage of
 Sonam with accused, the in-laws of Sonam had demanded Rs.30,000/-
 which she took on loan and after concealing from her husband had given
 to accused Arjun after calling him at her home. Interestingly, during the
 cross-examination by learned defence counsel, PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh
 stated that she did not know the name of the person from whom she had
 taken the loan of Rs.30,000/- to be given to the accused as stated by her.
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 25of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:55:43
 +0530
 It is pertinent to note that PW-3 did not claim that she was unable to
 recollect the name of the person from whom she had taken the loan, in
 fact she stated that she did not know the name of that person, which is
 highly improbable and raises a doubt regarding the veracity of her
 version. 50. Similarly in her examination in chief, PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh
 also did not disclose anything about the demand of Rs.40,000/- for
 purchasing vehicle having been made by the accused or his family
 members. However, during cross-examination by learned Additional
 Public Prosecutor for the State, she admitted the suggestion that through
 her daughter Sonam, accused had demanded Rs.40,000/- to purchase
 vehicle and when they could not give the said money, Sonam was
 subjected to cruelty resulting in her death. It is important to note that in
 her statement Ex.PW2/B, Mrs. Kamlesh had stated that इतने रूपये देने के
 बाद भी मेरी बेटी सोनम से ४० हज़ार रूपये और लाने को कहा और यह कहा गया की
 गाड़ी खरीदने के लिए चाहिए, therefore, in the said statement, it is not clear as
 to who had raised the said demand of Rs.40,000/-, whereas in her cross-
 examination, PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh stated that none else was present
 when demand of Rs.40,000/- was made by the accused, therefore, as per
 PW-3, the said demand of Rs.40,000/- was made by accused Arjun. 51. Further PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh has considerably improved her
 version while appearing in the witness box. She deposed that sometimes
 they used to ask Sonam to bring something from her parental home i.e.
 their home and when Sonam did not bring anything from her parental
 home, then accused and his family members used to beat her. This fact
 does not find mention in her earlier statement Ex.PW2/B dated

SHARAD 06.10.2016. PW-3 further deposed that whenever Sonam used to visit at
GUPTA Digitally signed by SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 26of 47 SHARAD GUPTA Date: 2025.03.12 18:55:53 +0530 their place, she was accompanied by either accused or his brother and
 then she used to somehow tell her that she was being beaten by the
 accused and his family members. The factum of the deceased having
 told PW-3 about any kind of beatings at the hands of her in laws does
 not find mention in her statement Ex.PW2/B. She further added that
 when demands of accused could not be met then he used to beat Sonam.
 Again this fact does not find mention in her statement Ex.PW2/B. 52. A careful perusal of all the testimonies of PW-2 Mr. Raju
 and PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh reveal that at no point of time, they have
 alleged that their daughter Sonam told them that the accused or his
 family members were demanding any dowry from her or that she was
 being subjected to any kind of cruelty in relation to those demands.
 Further, PW-2 Mr. Raju and PW-3 Mrs. Kamlesh have not been able to
 give any specific dates or incidents or occasions on which the demands
 were made by the accused either himself or through their daughter
 Sonam. Similarly, they also could not give any dates of any specific
 incidents when their daughter was subjected to cruelty by the accused. 53. A careful perusal of the joint statement of PW-2 and PW-3
 dated 06.10.2023 Ex.PW2/B reveals that the same does not talk about
 any sort of cruelty having been acted upon the deceased by the accused
 in relation to demand of dowry. Although, in their statements recorded
 in the court, PW-2 and PW-3 improved their versions by adding that
 Sonam was being beaten by the accused. However, the said
 improvement appears to be an after thought as neither any specific
 incident of beating has been mentioned nor they have claimed that
 Sonam had complained to them about beatings having been given by
 accused Arjun. Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 27of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:56:03
 +0530 54. Although, prosecution has examined various other
 witnesses viz. PW11 Mr Vicky, PW-12 Mrs. Santosh, PW-13 Ms.
 Kanta, PW-14 Mrs. Kamla, PW-16 Mrs. Sunita, PW-17 Mrs. Nitu,
 and PW-18 Mrs. Kiran, to prove that the victim was subjected or
 cruelty or harassment by her husband (accused Arjun); that such cruelty
 or harassment should be for or in connection with demand of dowry;
 and such cruelty and harassment was made soon before her death,
 however, the testimonies of none of these witnesses could aid the
 case of prosecution for the reasons given herein under. 55. PW-11 Mr. Vicky who is the cousin brother of deceased
 Sonam deposed in his testimony that 4-5 months prior to the death
 of deceased Sonam, she met him and at that time, she was well and
 also informed him that he was due to become maternal uncle. He
 further deposed that deceased Sonam further told him that accused
 Arjun was worried because of his unemployment and he assured
 her that he will make efforts for his employment. PW-11 further
 deposed that Sonam told him that because of Arjun, his parents
 used to scold her as well. There is nothing in the testimony of PW-
 11 Mr. Vicky to suggest that deceased Sonam was being subjected
 to any kind of cruelty on account of demand of dowry. In fact from
 the testimony of PW-11, it is clear that till about 4-5 months prior
 to her death, deceased Sonam was well and was pregnant. 56. PW-12 Mrs. Santosh who is the grand-mother of
 deceased Sonam specifically stated that Sonam never met her after
 her marriage and she does not know how were the relations of
 Digitally
 signed by
 Sonam with accused after their marriage. PW-12 Mrs. Santosh was
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 28of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:56:10
 +0530
 cross-examined by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
 State as she was partly resiling from her earlier statement. During
 the cross-examination by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor
 for the State, though she admitted that deceased Sonam got married
 with accused on 19.04.2015, however, she stated that she does not
 know but father of Sonam might have spent more than his capacity
 in the marriage of Sonam. She denied the suggestion that before her
 death, Sonam met her or that she made a complaint about her
 husband that she was not in cordial relations with him. She denied
 the suggestion that she was deposing falsely having been won over
 by the accused through his relatives. Therefore, the testimony of
 PW-12 is also of no use to the case of prosecution. 57. PW-13 Ms. Kanta who is an aunt of deceased Sonam
 deposed that Sonam was the daughter of her real brother Raju and
 she was married to accused Arjun. She deposed that their marriage
 was attended by her. She stated that complainant Raju had spent as
 per his capacity in the marriage of his daughter Sonam. She stated
 that she had gone to the police station after the death of Sonam on
 being called. She deposed that after 5-6 months of marriage of
 Sonam, she had gone to the house of her brother Raju to attend a
 pooja where accused Arjun and deceased Sonam had also come.
 She specifically added that when she inquired her well being,
 Sonam told her that she was well. PW-13 was also cross-examined
 by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State as she was
 also resiling from her earlier statement. During the cross-
 Digitally
 signed by
 examination by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 29of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:56:17
 +0530
 State, she specifically denied the suggestion that Sonam had told
 her that her relations with her husband accused Arjun were not
 cordial. She denied the suggestion that she had been won over by
 the accused through his relatives. Therefore, even the testimony of
 PW-13 also does not render any assistance to the case of
 prosecution. 58. PW-14 Mrs. Kamla is another aunt of deceased Sonam.
 She deposed in the court that Sonam was daughter of her real sister
 Kamlesh. She deposed that Sonam was married with accused Arjun
 and she had attended the said marriage. She stated that she had
 given refrigerator to Sonam in her marriage. She added that after
 one month of her marriage, Sonam had come to her house with her
 husband accused Arjun and her in laws and she did not complain
 anything about her husband or in laws. PW-13 was also cross-
 examined by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
 as she was also resiling from her earlier statement. During the
 cross-examination by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for
 the State, she deposed that she had gone to PS Chhawla where she
 was inquired. She admitted on being suggested that on the asking
 of Mr. Raju, she had purchased some jewellery from neighbouring
 Akash Jeweller, which was given by her to Mr. Raju who paid their
 consideration. She admitted that Sonam was married with accused
 Arjun on 19.04.2015. On being suggested, she further admitted that
 when Sonam with her in laws and husband had come to her house
 after her marriage, accused Arjun seemed annoyed and Sonam had
 Digitally
 signed bytold her that her relations with accused were not cordial. She
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 59. PW-16 Mrs. Sunita is the neighbour of complainant
 Raju. She deposed that on 19th April, two-three years ago, Sonam
 was married to accused Arjun and she had attended the said
 marriage. She deposed that after the marriage of Sonam, she had
 not gone to the matrimonial home of Sonam and whenever Sonam
 visited her parental home after marriage, she also used to come to
 her house. She added that two months prior to her death, Sonam
 had told her that she was being harassed by her husband Arjun and
 her mother in law and they used to demand money from her. 60. It is pertinent to note that in her testimony recorded in
 the court PW-16 Mrs. Sunita has improved her version by stating
 that about two months prior to her death, Sonam had told her that
 she was being harassed by her husband Arjun and her mother in
 law and they used to demand money from her, as in her statement
 recorded under Section 161 Cr. P. C., she had not averred anything
 about any harassment upon deceased Sonam by accused Arjun or
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 31of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:56:35
 +0530
 her mother in law. In her statement under Section 161 Cr. P. C., she
 had simply stated that सोनम जब कभी मुझे मिली तो सोनम ने भी मुझसे
 अपने ससुराल वाले के बारे में कोई शिकायत नहीं करी थी परंतु अपने पति अर्जुन
 से मन-मुटाव की व अर्जुन द्वारा गाड़ी के पैसे लाने की बात ज़रूर कही थी. 61. PW-17 Mrs. Nitu is another neighbour of complainant
 Raju. She deposed that Sonam was married with accused Arjun on
 19.04.2015. She added that after her marriage, Sonam never met
 her but she used to come to her parental home with her husband.
 She further added that after 2-3 months of her marriage, Sonam
 once met her at her house and told her about a quarrel having taken
 place between her and her husband accused Arjun and that she had
 come to her parental home after leaving her husband, however, she
 had returned back to her matrimonial home after about 1-2 days.
 PW-17 was also cross-examined by the learned Additional Public
 Prosecutor for the State as she was also resiling from her earlier
 statement. During the cross-examination by the learned Additional
 Public Prosecutor for the State, she denied the suggestion that
 Sonam had told her that accused Arjun had demanded money for
 vehicle. She denied the suggestion that she was deposing falsely
 having been won over by the accused. Therefore, even the
 testimony of PW-17 is of no use to the case of prosecution. 62. PW-18 Mrs. Kiran is another aunt of deceased Ms.
 Sonam. She deposed that on 19.04.2015, Sonam was married to
 accused Arjun and she had attended the said wedding. She further
 stated that after her marriage, she had met Sonam 4-5 times at her
 Digitally
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 32of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:56:43
 +0530
 parental home when she visited there as she used to go there. She
 added that whenever she used to visit there she inquired Sonam
 about her well being to which Sonam told her that all was well. She
 stated that she used to remain there only for 15-20 minutes or half
 an hour and during that duration, Sonam did not tell her anything
 else about her husband or in laws. PW-18 was also cross-examined
 by the learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State as she was
 resiling from her earlier statement. However, during the cross-
 examination, she specifically denied the suggestion that Sonam had
 told her that her relations with her husband were not cordial.
 Hence, even PW-18 did not support the case of prosecution. 63. The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Bansilal vs. State of
 Haryana (2011) 11 SCC 359 has held that, to attract the provision of Section 304B of the IPC, one of the main ingredients of the offence
 which is required to be established is that "soon before her death", she
 was subjected to cruelty and harassment "in connection with the demand
 of dowry". It has been further held: signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 64. Similarly, in Sher Singh Alias Partapa vs State of Haryana (2015) 1 SCR 29 it has been held: so as to give full effect to the legislation and carry it to
 its logical conclusion. We may add that it is generally
 posited that there are rebuttable as well as irrebuttable
 presumptions, the latter oftentimes assuming an
 artificiality as actuality by means of a deeming
 provision. It is abhorrent to criminal jurisprudence to
 adjudicate a person guilty of an offence even though
 he had neither intention to commit it nor active
 participation in its commission. It is after deep
 cogitation that we consider it imperative to construe
 the word "shown" in Section 304-B IPC as to, in fact,
 connote "prove". In other words, it is for the
 prosecution to prove that a "dowry death" has
 occurred, namely, (i) that the death of a woman has been caused in
 Digitally
 signed by abnormal circumstances by her having been burned or
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 34of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:56:58
 +0530
 having been bodily injured, (ii) within seven years of her marriage, (iii) and that she was subjected to cruelty or
 harassment by her husband or any relative of her
 husband, (iv) in connection with any demand for dowry, and (v) that the cruelty or harassment meted out to her
 continued to have a causal connection or a live link
 with the demand of dowry. We are aware that the word "soon" finds place in
 Section 304-B; but we would prefer to interpret its use
 not in terms of days or months or years, but as
 necessarily indicating that the demand for dowry
 should not be stale or an aberration of the past, but
 should be the continuing cause for the death under
 Section 304-B or the suicide under Section 306 IPC.
 Once the presence of these concomitants is established
 or shown or proved by the prosecution, even by
 preponderance of possibility, the initial presumption of
 innocence is replaced by an assumption of guilt of the
 accused, thereupon transferring the heavy burden of
 proof upon him and requiring him to produce evidence
 dislodging his guilt, beyond reasonable doubt. It seems
 to us that what Parliament intended by using the word
 "deemed" was that only preponderance of evidence
 would be insufficient to discharge the husband or his
 family members of their guilt. This interpretation
 provides the accused a chance of proving their
 innocence. This is also the postulation of Section 101 of the Evidence Act. The purpose of Section 113-B of
 the Evidence Act and Section 304-B IPC, in our
 opinion, is to counter what is commonly encountered --the lack or the absence of evidence in the case of
 suicide or death of a woman within seven years of
 marriage. If the word "shown" has to be given its
 ordinary meaning then it would only require the
 prosecution to merely present its evidence in court, not
 necessarily through oral deposition, and thereupon
 make the accused lead detailed evidence to be
 Digitally
 signed by
 followed by that of the prosecution. This procedure is
 SHARAD unknown to common law systems, and beyond the
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 65. In view of the aforesaid discussions and on the basis of the
 above detailed scrutiny of the testimonies of the public witnesses
 examined by the prosecution, this court is of the opinion that the
 prosecution has not been able to prove on record that the deceased was
 subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband i.e., the accused or
 any relative of her husband or that the said cruelty or harassment was for
 or in connection with demand of dowry; or that such cruelty and
 harassment was made soon before her death. 66. Although the accused has not been charged with the
 commission of offence under section 306 IPC, another aspect to be
 considered here is the liability of the accused under section 306 IPC. 67. Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code talks about abetment
 of suicide and states that whoever abets the commission of suicide of
 another person, he/she shall be punished with imprisonment of either
 description for a term not exceeding ten years and shall also be liable to
 fine. 68. Abetment is defined in Section 107 IPC and it reads as
 follows: 69. In case reported as 2008(3) R.C.R. (Criminal) 890 Rajbabu
 & Anr. Vs. State of M.P., the girl had committed suicide. Prior to suicide
 she wrote a letter to her parents that she was unable to tolerate the
 atmosphere in the family in matrimonial home and would prefer to live
 in hell because in-laws have done such acts with her which are of no use
 to mention. She further wrote that she was treated like an enemy and
 that her mother told that if she (bride) is kept in their house then nothing
 will remain. Hon'ble Apex Court held that :- 70. In another case reported as Randhir Singh & Anr. Vs. State
 of Punjab , 2004(4) RCR(Criminal) 740 : 2004(3) Apex Criminal 683 : 71. In another case reported as State of West Bengal Vs. Orilal
 Jaiswal , 1994(3) RCR (Criminal) 186 : 1994(1) SCC 73 it was held
 that :- 72. In yet another case reported as 2007( 3) R.C.R.(Criminal) 87
 Bhagwan Das Vs. Kartar Singh & Ors , where wife was harassed as she
 could not give birth to child for 7 years, and when she gave birth to a
 female child, she was taunted for bringing bad luck, suicide was
 committed by bride, Hon'ble Apex Court held that abetment under
 Digitally
 signed by SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 38of 47
GUPTA Date: 73. In case reported as 2007(2) R.C.R.(Criminal) 678, Sanjay
 Versus State of Maharashtra, both husband and wife used to quarrel with
 each other and husband used to come late in drunkard condition. Wife
 committed suicide. Husband was acquitted by Hon'ble Supreme Court. 74. In a recent judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Kamalakar vs. State of Karnataka in Criminal Appeal No. 1485 of 2011
 [decided on 12.10.2023], the ingredients of Section 306 IPC were
 explained as follows: 8.4. The essentials of Section 306 IPC were
 elucidated by this Court in M. Mohan v. State , as
 under: Therefore, it is impossible to lay down any
 straitjacket formula in dealing with such cases. Each
 case has to be decided on the basis of its own facts
 and circumstances. 44. Abetment involves a mental process of
 instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person
 in doing of a thing. Without a positive act on the part
 of the accused to instigate or aid in committing
 suicide, conviction cannot be sustained. 45. The intention of the legislature and the ratio of
 the cases decided by this Court are clear that in order
 to convict a person under Section 306 IPC there has
 to be a clear mens rea to commit the offence. It also
 requires an active act or direct act which led the
 deceased to commit suicide seeing no option and this
 act must have been intended to push the deceased
 into such a position that he/she committed suicide."
 8.5. The essential ingredients which are to be meted
 out in order to bring a case under Section 306 IPC
 were also discussed in Amalendu Pal alias Jhantu v.
 State of West Bengal in the following paragraphs: 8.6. On a careful reading of the factual matrix of the
 instant case and the law regarding Section 306 IPC,
 there seems to be no proximate link between the
 marital discord between the deceased and the
 appellant and her subsequent death by burning
 herself. The appellant has not committed any positive
 or direct act to instigate or aid in the commission of
 suicide by the deceased." 75. In a recent judgment titled as Prabhu Vs The State
 SLP(CRL) Diary No. 39981/2022 decided on 30.01.2024, the principles
 relating to elements of section 306 IPC were summarized as follows: [Swami Prahaladdas v. State of M.P 1995 Supp. (3)
 SCC 438, Paragraph 3; Sanju v. State of M.P (2002)
 5 SCC 371, Paragraph 12]
 10.2 In order to constitute 'instigation', it must be
 shown that the accused had, by his acts or omission
 or by a continued course of conduct, created such
 circumstances that the deceased was left with no
 other option except to commit suicide. The words
 uttered by the accused must be suggestive of the
 consequence [ Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhatisgarh (2001) 9 SCC 618, Paragraph 20]
 10.3 Different individuals in the same situation react
 and behave differently because of the personal
 meaning they add to each event, thus accounting for
 individual vulnerability to suicide. [Chitresh Kumar
 Chopra v. State (Government of NCT of Delhi)
 (2009) 16 SCC 605, Paragraph 20]
 10.4 There must be direct or indirect acts of
 incitement to the commission of suicide. The accused
 must be shown to have played an active role by an
 act of instigation or by doing certain act to facilitate
 the commission of suicide [ Amalendu Pal v. State of
 West Bengal (2010) 1 SCC 707, Paragraph 12-14]
 10.5 The accused must have intended or known that
 the deceased would commit suicide because of his
 actions or omissions [ Madan Mohan Singh v. State
 of Gujarat (2010) 8 SCC 628] 76. In the facts of the present case, the prosecution has not been
 able to bring on record any material to show that the accused had
 instigated the deceased to commit suicide by any instigation or active
 act or ommission. At the most the only material coming on record is
 that there was 'man mutav' between the deceased and the accused. Even
 if the said version is taken at its face value, even then the same would
 fall short of the mischief contemplated under Section 306 r/w 107 IPC .
 Digitally There is nothing on record to suggest that any actions of the accused
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: 77. Even if 'man mutav' is interpreted as a domestic fight, even
 then, fights between husband and wife are a normal part of domestic
 wear and tear and are a part of everyday life. It could not be said that the
 accused by quarrelling with the deceased had intended to abet the
 suicide of deceased. This is especially more so as there is nothing on
 record attrubuting any act or omission to the accused which might have
 resulted in the deceased taking her life. Hence even the offence under
 Section 306 is not made out in the facts of the present case. 78. it is argued on behalf of the State that the accused has not
 taken consistent defence during trial. It is argued that it was put to PW 2
 and PW3 that they had taken money from the family of the accused and
 since they could not return the said money, the deceased was under 79. In this context, it is well settled that failure of the accused
 to prove any cogent defence cannot be made the ground for convicting
 the accused when the prosecution story does not inspire confidence as a
 whole. It is a settled proposition of criminal law that burden of proof of
 the version of the prosecution in a criminal trial throughout the trial is
 on the prosecution and it never shifts on to the accused. Also, it is a
 settled proposition of criminal law that accused is entitled to the benefit
 of reasonable doubt in the prosecution story and such reasonable doubt
 entitles the accused to acquittal. It is well settled having been held in a
 catena of judgments that the prosecution case has to stand on its own
 legs and cannot take benefit of any weakness in the defence version. It
 has been held in Sunil Kundu and Anr. Vs State of Jharkhand 2013(4)
 SCC 422 as follows: 80. Similarly, it has been held in Suchand Pal vs Phani Lal and
 others AIR 2004 SC 973 as follows: 81. It has been held in Narender Kumar Vs. State (NCT of
 Delhi ) (2012) 7 SCC 171 as under:- 82. Thus, even if the defence of accused is discarded or even if it
 is held unbelievable, even then the prosecution version cannot be taken as
 proved and accused cannot be convicted for the offence he has been
 charged with. The prosecution first has to discharge its onus and establish
 its case by leading cogent evidence on record. In the facts of the present
 case the prosecution has not been able to establish its case beyond rea-
 sonable doubt and the accused is entitled to benefit of doubt. 83. Prosecution case may be true but criminal jurisprudence
 says that prosecution case must be true. There is a long distance between
 "may be true" and "must be true". It is cardinal principle of criminal
 jurisprudence that an accused is presumed to be innocent. The burden
 lies on the prosecution to prove the guilt of accused beyond reasonable
 doubt. The prosecution is under a legal obligation to prove each and
 every ingredient of offence beyond any doubt, unless otherwise so
 provided by any statute. This general burden never shifts, it always rests
 on the prosecution. ( Daya Ram v. State of Haryana , 1997(1) R.C.R.
 (Criminal) 662), Partap v. State of U.P. (SC) 1976 A.I.R. (SC) 966,
 Vijayee Singh v. State of U.P. (SC) 1990(3) S.C.C. 190, Nasir Sikander
 Shaikh v. State of Maharashtra (SC) 2005 Cri.L.J. 2621 and Jarnail
 Singh v. State of Punjab (SC) 1996(1) R.C.R.(Criminal) 465. 84. Thus, this Court unflinchingly holds that the prosecution
 has failed to prove its case against accused Arjun by leading convincing
 or cogent evidence. The prosecution has failed to discharge the burden
 Digitallyplaced upon it and therefore, accused Arjun is entitled to be exonerated.
 signed by
 SHARAD
SHARAD GUPTA
GUPTA Date: SC No.89/17 State Vs. Arjun Page 46of 47
 2025.03.12
 18:59:04
 +0530 85. Resultantly, accused Arjun is acquitted of the offences
punishable under Section 498 A IPC and Section 304 B IPC. File be
consigned to the Record Room after compliance of provisions of Section 437 A Cr.P.C. Announced in the open Court on 28th February, 2025. (SHARAD GUPTA)
 Additional Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court)
 South West District, Dwarka Courts, New Delhi

 It is certified that this Judgment contains 46 pages and
each page bears my initials / signatures. (SHARAD GUPTA)
 Additional Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court)
 South West District, Dwarka Courts/New Delhi.