In today’s hyper-connected digital world, staying on top of the latest developments in cybersecurity and cybercrime is essential. Here are a few updates about the latest cybersecurity news in India:

Cryptocurrency giant WazirX has registered an FIR under the IT Act and the Bharatiya Nyaya Samhita (BNS) on the 5th of August at the Lodhi Colony Police Station, New Delhi. The FIR comes after the company suffered a massive cyberattack that led to the theft of over $230 million. WazirX stated that it had filed a police complaint the very next day, on 19 July. In the pursuing weeks, WazirX announced a “ loss socialisation ” strategy that would see 45% of all user wallets be frozen. This move drew criticism from many quarters, with some users mulling legal action. Following the feedback, the exchange reportedly shelved its plan and is now exploring other options.

India saw 593 cyberattacks in the first half of 2024, according to a report published by FalconFeeds, a product of the Kerala-based cybersecurity firm Technisanct. These include 388 data breaches, 107 data leaks, 39 ransomware group activities, and 59 access sales or leak cases. Education and research were the sectors most impacted by cyber-attacks, followed by the government and the public sector. The report identified a total of 71 government victims, including various military, defence and police targets. The report stated that an increase in cyber attacks coincided with India’s general elections. Concerns about cyber fraud were also raised by MP Priyanka Chaturvedi in the Parliament on July 22. Chaturvedi asked the Minister of Electronics and Information Technology to focus on the matter, considering the issue’s impact on India’s population and the dearth of financial literacy in the country.

The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) issued an advisory describing a number of security vulnerabilities in Apple products on August 2. The vulnerabilities affect multiple products like various versions of Apple iOS, iPadOS, MacOS, watchOS, tvOS, visionOS and the Safari browser. The cybersecurity agency described these vulnerabilities as being high severity and recommends people apply the security updates issued by the company. CERT-IN flagged a total of 77 vulnerabilities, which could lead to sensitive information leaks, arbitrary code execution, security bypasses, denial of service (DoS) attacks, spoofing attacks and cross-site scripting.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event