1. In the present case, accused Chander Singh and Gunni
Kaur were sent to face trial for commission of offence(s)
punishable u/s 302 / 304B / 498A / 34 IPC. The brief facts leading to
the initiation of criminal proceedings against the accused are as
follows:- (c) Postmortem of Manjeet Kaur was got conducted. After
postmortem, dead body was handed over to family members of
Manjeet Kaur. SI collected PM report no. 201/13 of deceased
Manjeet Kaur and the doctor had opined that the cause of death
of Manjeet Kaur was Asphyxia due to antemortem hanging. On
the basis of statement of Smt. Kamlesh Kaur recorded by SDM FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 3 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR 23:51:04 +05'30'
 Date: 2025.11.18
 and the above-said MLC, offence(s) u/s 302/304B/498A/34 IPC were disclosed and the FIR was registered. (d) Statements of father and brother of Manjeet Kaur were also
recorded by SDM and also separately by IO wherein both of
them also stated that the accused persons demanded motorcycle,
LCD and gold ring. They also stated that they suspected that the
accused persons had killed Manjeet Kaur as their demand of
dowry was not fulfilled. After postmortem the doctor handed over
the parcel containing viscera, blood sample, nails and clothes of
deceased. The viscera of deceased was sent to FSL, Rohini. On
chemical, microscopic and TLC examination, no poison could be
detected. Thereafter, final opinion qua the cause of death of
Manjeet Kaur was given by the doctor who concluded that she
died of Asphyxia due to antemortem hanging. Charge-sheet in the
matter was filed. 2. The court of Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate took cognizance
of the offences. After completion of necessary legal formalities u/s 207 Cr.P.C., the case file was committed to the Court of
Sessions. Pursuant to order of Ld. District & Sessions Judge,
East, the matter was fixed for hearing on point of charge. Vide
order dated 21.09.2013 charge u/s 498-A / 304-B / 34 IPC and in
the alternative u/s 302 / 34 IPC was framed by the ld. Predecessor
of this court against both the accused to which they pleaded not
guilty and claimed trial. ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:51:27 +05'30' 3. In order to establish its case, prosecution examined 24
(twenty four) witnesses. A brief account of the depositions made
by the witnesses of prosecution is reproduced herein below:- It is profitable to reproduce examination-in-chief(s) of brother,
mother and father of deceased which read as follows:- On 12.05.13, my mother namely Kamlesh Kaur
 received call from my sister Manjeet Kaur and she had told FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 9 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR 23:53:15 +05'30'
 Date: 2025.11.18
 my mother that she is being harassed and tortured by the
 accused persons. My mother her that we would bring her
 back but my sister Manjeet Kaur told not to come and that
 accused Chander Singh would come on 13.05.13 and then
 she would come with him in the evening. Therefore, my
 mother and father did not go to matrimonial house of my
 sister Manjeet Kaur to bring her back. At about 9.30 pm, on
 the same day, my mother received call from Sewa Singh who
 informed that "aapki ladi ki tabiyat kharab ho gai aur usko
 Kukreja Hospital, Mayur Phase-I le kar ja rahe hain" and
 asked my mother to reach hospital but my mother told that
 she is unable to visit right now as myself and my father
 were not present. My mother informed me telephonically
 about the same and asked me to come fast so that we can visit
 the hospital. I made call to accused Chander Singh but he
 did not pick up my call. I returned back to my house at
 about 10.00 pm and then I alongwith my cousin Vickey went
 on motorcycle to hospital and my mother alongwith her
 sisters also reached at Kukreja Hospital where we found
 my sister Manjeet Kaur lying dead. Accused persons
 informed us that my sister Manjeet Kaur has committed
 suicide by hanging but I visited the hospital and saw my
 sister Manjeet Kaur, it was not appearing that my sister
 Manjeet Kaur has committed suicide and I noticed some
 marks on her neck. We started weeping. Since my mother
 was under shock, therefore, I sent back my mother home
 and I alongwith my cousin remained there. At about 12.30
 am (night), accused Chander took my sister Manjeet Kaur to
 LBS Hospital. We also went there. Police reached there
 and I talked with them and they advised us to return back
 home. I alongwith my other family members reached at PS
 Kalyan Puri and we told them about the above facts who told
 that SDM would visit and record our statement. SDM
 reached there and my statement was recorded which is
 Ex.PW2/A which bears my signature at point A. Statement of
 my mother Smt. Kamlesh Kaur and father Darshan Singh
 were also recorded and then we were informed that accused
 have been apprehended. Thereafter, we reached at LBS
 Hospital where I identified dead body of my sister Manjeet
 Kaur and my statement was recorded to this effect which is
 Ex.PW2/B which bears my signatures at point A. After post
 mortem, the dead body was handed over to us vide memo
 Ex.PW2/C which bears my signatures at point A.
 On the next day, police also made enquiry from me
 and my statement was recorded. ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:53:37 +05'30'
 Later on, I had produced marriage card, CD of
 marriage and list of dowry articles to the IO which were
 taken into possession vide memo Ex.PW2/D which bears my
 signatures at point A. list of dowry articles is Ex.PW2/E. The
 marriage card is Ex.P-1 and CD of the marriage is Ex.P-2.
 My statement was recorded. My sister has been murdered by
 the accused persons. PW-8 Smt. Kamlesh Kaur W/o Sh. Darshan Singh, aged 45
 years, R/o B-68/B, Tilak Vihar, Tilak Nagar, Delhi.
 on SA- Deceased Manjeet Kaur was my daughter and she was
 married with accused Chander Singh, present in the Court
 (correctly identified), R/o 20/58, Kalyan Puri, Delhi on
 16.12.12 at Tilak Vihar. Previously we had booked
 Gurudwara for marriage ceremony but accused persons
 refused to bring the barat there and told that they need DJ etc.
 and thereafter, we got installed tent near police post Tilak
 Vihar. The marriage was performed with great pump and
 show and sufficient dowry consisting of fridge, double bed,
 almirah, washing machine, utensils, sofa etc. were given in
 the marriage. Gold ring, gold ear ring, one gold ring for Sewa
 Singh, one pair of gold tops for accused Gunni Kaur, gold
 chain & gold ring to accused Chander Singh, silver pajeb for
 deceased Manjeet Kaur, cloths for Manjeet Kaur as well as
 family members of accused persons were also given in the
 marriage and all the above articles were handed over to the
 accused persons. Thereafter, my daughter Manjeet joined her
 matrimonial house with accused Chander Singh at Kalyan
 Puri. We had given sufficient dowry as per our capacity.
 After a week, there was marriage of son of my sister at C-
 Block, Tilak Vihar and marriage was attended by accused
 Chander Singh and Manjit. After about 1-1/2 months, my
 daughter Manjeet alongwith accused Chander Singh visited
 us at Tilak Vihar and she went back with accused Chander
 Singh on the next day. After about 1-1½ months, my husband
 Darshan Singh went to the in-laws house of my daughter
 Manjeet to bring her at Tilak Vihar for meeting us. My
 daughter Manjeet remained with us for about 20 days.
 Thereafter, she returned back to her in-laws house with her
 husband. After about 10-20 days, I received telephone call
 from my daughter Manjeet and told me that accused persons
 are demanding LCD and have asked me to return the TV
 given in the marriage and further that accused Gunni Kaur
 demanding gold ring for herself. My daughter told that
 accused Chander Singh was demanding motorcycle and that FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 11 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR 00:02:00 +05'30'
 Date: 2025.11.19
 unless their demand is not met, they would not keep her in
 the matrimonial house. After few days, my daughter Manjeet
 again made call to me and informed that accused persons
 were causing harassment and torture to her and passing
 comments that she has not brought sufficient dowry in the
 marriage. I pacified my daughter Manjeet and told her to wait
 for sometime and that we would talk with her in laws. I
 shared the said information with my husband and son Avtar
 Singh on which they told me to wait for sometime so that
 they could manage the money for meeting the demand. On 11.05.13, my daughter Manjeet again made call to
 me and informed that accused persons were subjecting her to
 severe torture and then I informed her that I would reach
 there, on which my daughter informed that accused Chander
 would bring her to my house. On 13.05.13, at about 9.30 pm, I received call from
 Sewa Singh, father of accused Chander Singh who informed
 that my daughter is seriously ill and they were taking her to
 Kukreja hospital. I informed him that I or my family member
 could not reach there as my son is on his duty and my
 husband has gone to Gurudwara, on which, Sewa Singh told
 that 'you should come in auto'. But I refused and told him that
 I cannot reach there alone and would come with my husband
 and son. Thereafter, I made call to accused Chander Singh
 but he did not attend my call. Then, I made call to my son
 Avtar Singh and shared the information received from Sewa
 Singh, on which, he replied that he would reach at house at
 Tilak Vihar within 30-45 minutes. My son reached at about
 10.00 pm. My son made call to Sonu R/o Kalyan Puri who is
 in my distant relation and asked him to gather the information
 and then, Sonu called back to my son and informed that my
 daughter Manjeet has died. Thereafter, I alongwith my son
 Avtar, my sisters Maya Kaur and Baby Kaur and son of
 Maya Vickey reached at Kukreja Hospital. I was got sit
 outside the hospital while my son, my sisters and Vickey
 went inside and found my daughter Manjeet lying dead.
 Thereafter, ambulance reached there and took the dead body
 of my daughter Manjeet to LBS Hospital. I got shocked. On 14.05.13, I alongwith my other family members
 went to PS Kalyan Puri where my statement was recorded by
 the SDM. Thereafter, police made enquiry from me and they
 also recorded my statement on the next day. PW-9 Sh. Darshan Singh S/o Atma Singh, Aged about 48
 years R/o B-68B, Tilak Vihar, Tilak Nagar, Delhi.
 On SA FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 12 of 33 Digitally signed ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR 00:01:38
 Date: 2025.11.19
 +05'30'
 Deceased Manjeet Kaur was my daughter and I married her
 with the accused, present in the court, on 16.12.2012. My
 daughter was 22 years at the time of marriage. The accused
 was a tabla player in Gurudwara at Faridabad. We arranged
 marriage in a Gurudwara. But one week before marriage, we
 received information from father of accused for making
 arrangement of marriage by installing stall and arranging DJ
 etc. As per their request, we stalled Pandal, tent and DJ in C
 Block, Tilak Vihar. The accused and his family members
 along with their relatives and friends reached at marriage
 place and marriage ceremonies were performed. At the time
 of marriage, we had given TV, fridge, double bed, sofa set
 and other household articles and same were entrusted to
 younger brother of accused Chander Singh. Thereafter, my
 daughter joined the matrimonial house at Kalyan Puri. After about one month, my daughter was subjected to
 mental and physical torture by mother in law and other
 family members. Brother of accused did not allow my
 daughter to watch TV which was given in marriage. Accused
 demanded motorcycle, while accused Gunni Kaur demanded
 gold ring for her husband. The accused demanded LCD TV
 also. They used to subject my daughter to beating and
 physical and mental torture. The torture continued for about
 4/5 months. I advised my wife to bring my daughter Manjeet
 Kaur to our house but my wife insisted that matter would
 settle in due course. After about 6 months, accused persons
 killed my daughter. When received information and I reached
 Kukreja Hospital and I went to Police Station where my
 statement was recorded by SDM which is Ex.PW9/A which
 bears my signatures at point A. Thereafter, SDM had
 conducted his proceedings and I identified dead body of my
 daughter and my statement Ex.PW9/B was recorded which
 bears my signatures at point A. Death report Ex.PW9/C bears
 my signatures at point A. postmortem on the dead body of
 my deceased daughter was conducted and I received dead
 body of my daughter vide memo already Ex.PW2/C which
 bears my signatures at point C. We cremated the dead body
 of my daughter as per our customs and rituals. Accused
 Chander Singh, husband and Gunni Kaur, mother in law of
 my deceased daughter are present in the court today and
 correctly identified. Upon examination of all cited witnesses, the prosecution
evidence was closed on 05.06.2024. ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.19
 00:01:15 +05'30' 4. In his statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C accused Chander
Singh denied all the incriminating evidence. He claimed that he
has been falsely implicated in this case. He took a plea that
parents of deceased Manjeet Kaur pressurized her to marry him
and her consent was not obtained by her parents prior to
marriage. She was having affair with some other boy due to
which she committed suicide. In her statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C accused Gunni Kaur denied all the
incriminating evidence. She claimed that she has been falsely
implicated in this case. She took an identical plea as taken by her
son but additionally she stated that she called Manjeet Kaur for
dinner and upon not getting any response, she went to 1 st floor.
The TV inside the first floor was switched on and thereafter she
went to the room at the top floor of house but the room was
locked from inside. She saw from the window that Manjeet Kaur
was hanging from the ceiling fan. She got scared and started
shouting. Upon hearing her cries, the neighbours came to the
spot and they pushed the door open. Gunni Kaur elected not to
lead defence evidence but Chander Singh lead evidence and
examined one Hardev Singh, Head Granthi of Gurudwara
Pothimalal Sahib, NIT Faridabad. This witness testified that on
13.05.2013 when wife of Chander Singh committed suicide, he
was present with him in the Gurudwara. Upon receipt of call
from Delhi, he left for Delhi from Gurudwara. Defence evidence
was closed on 15.04.2025. Final arguments were concluded on
12.09.2025. 5. I have heard the final arguments advanced by ld. Addl.
Public Prosecutor for the State as well as by ld. Defence counsel. 6. Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued that all the PWs have
fully supported the case of prosecution. He stated that the
documentary and medical evidence also tie in with the case
canvassed by prosecution. He claimed that the presumption u/s
113B of Indian Evidence Act is to be raised and the court is
obliged to presume that the accused persons have caused the
dowry death. He also avowed that even otherwise, the guilt of the
accused persons has been proved beyond a shadow of doubt, so
they be convicted for the offences with which they were charged. 7. On the other hand, the Ld. defence counsels have
vehemently argued that both accused have been falsely
implicated. They claimed that the testimonies of family members
of deceased Manjeet Kaur are inconsistent and they contradict
each other on material aspects of the case. They adumbrated that
the case of the prosecution is full of lacunae, defects and gaps.
They pointed out that no independent witness has supported the
case of the prosecution. They contended that Manjeet Kaur was
married off by her parents against her will, so she committed
suicide. They prayed that both the accused be acquitted as the
case against them is not proved at all. ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.19
 00:00:36 +05'30' 8. I have cogitated over the submissions and combed through
evidence on record carefully. The accused are facing trial with
respect to charges u/s 304B / 498A / 34 IPC & in the alternative u/s
302 / 34 IPC. At this juncture, it is apposite to reproduce in
verbatim relevant portions of section 304B , 498A , 34 , 299 , 300 and 302 IPC and section 113B of Indian Evidence Act which
read as follows:- 498A. Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting
 her to cruelty- Whoever, being the husband or the relative of
 the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty
 shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
 extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine.
 Explanation-For the purpose of this section, "cruelty"
 means- (a) any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to
 drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury
 or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical)
 of the woman; or (b) harassment of the woman where such harassment is with
 a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet
 any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security
 or is on account of failure by her or any person related to
 her to meet such demand. ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:59:54 +05'30' 34. Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common
 intention- When a criminal act is done by several persons in
 furtherance of the common intention of all, each of such
 persons is liable for that act in the same manner as if it were
 done by him alone. 299. Culpable homicide.- Whoever causes death by doing an
 act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention
 of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death,
 commits the offence of culpable homicide. 300. Murder.- Except in the cases hereinafter excepted,
 culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is
 caused is done with the intention of causing death, or -
 Secondly- If it is done with the intention of causing such
 bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the
 death of the person to whom the harm is caused , or -
 Thirdly- If it is done with the intention of causing bodily
 injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be
 inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to
 cause death, or
 Fourthly- If the person committing the act knows that it is so
 imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause
 death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and
 commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of
 causing death or such injury is aforesaid. 302.Punishment for Murder.- Whoever commits murder shall
 be punished with death, or imprisonment for life and shall
 also be liable to fine. 113B. Presumption as to dowry death.- When the question is
 whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman
 and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had
 been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for,
 or in connection with, any demand for dowry, the court shall
 presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
 Explanation. For the purposes of this section, dowry death
 shall have the same meaning as in section 304B of the Indian
 Penal Code (45 of 1860). Before adverting to the appreciation of evidence on record, it is
necessary to note that Section 304B IPC is distinct from the other
penal provisions of the Code in as much as it shifts the burden
upon the accused to dislodge the 'presumption' that such person FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 17 of 33 ANURA Digitally
 by ANURAG
 signed

 G THAKUR
 Date: There must be existence of a proximate or live link between
 the effect of cruelty based on dowry demand and the death
 concerned. In other words, it should not be remote in point of
 time and thereby make it a stale one. 17.10. However, the expression "soon before" should not be
 given a narrow meaning which would otherwise defeat the
 very purpose of the provisions of the Act and should not lead
 to absurd results. 17.11. Section 304-B is an exception to the cardinal
 principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the
 Indian law is entitled to the protection of Article 20 of the
 Constitution, as well as, a presumption of innocence in his
 favour. The concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to
 criminal jurisprudence but in contradistinction to this aspect
 of criminal law, the legislature applied the concept of
 deeming fiction to the provisions of Section 304-B.
 17.12. Such deeming fiction resulting in a presumption is,
 however, a rebuttable presumption and the husband and his
 relatives, can, by leading their defence prove that the
 ingredients of Section 304-B were not satisfied.
 17.13. The specific significance to be attached is to the time
 of the alleged cruelty and harassment to which the victim was
 subjected, the time of her death and whether the alleged
 demand of dowry was in connection with the marriage. Once
 the said ingredients are satisfied it will be called "dowry
 death" and by deemed fiction of law the husband or the
 relatives will be deemed to have committed that offence." In the case of State Govt of NCT of Delhi vs Ram Gopal , 2017
SCC Online Del. 11789; the High Court of Delhi observed as
under:- ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:58:29 +05'30' 11. Regarding the cruelty or harassment to which Manjeet
Kaur was allegedly subjected, PW-2 Avtar Singh testified that
both the accused used to harass her and pass comments that
furniture given in marriage was not of good quality. He had also
stated that his sister used to make calls to him and their mother
and used to tell that accused persons habitually harassed her and
passed comments for dowry. In cross-examination he conceded
that he did not have any call record of his sister when she
informed him about the harassment and torture by accused
persons for demand of dowry. He also revealed that he did not
make any complaint to CAW cell or police at that time when his
sister informed him about the aforesaid harassment. He admitted
that his sister did not make any complaint to any authority about
harassment but he tried to explain this fact by stating that she did
not make a complaint in order to save her marriage. He also
admitted that he did not tell the police or SDM that his sister told
that her in-laws taunted her about dowry. He further admitted
that he had not seen any injury mark on the body of his sister
after the marriage. 12. As per the testimony of PW-8 Kamlesh Kaur, no
harassment was caused to her daughter for the first 3 months or
so and only after that she received telephone call of Manjeet
Kaur telling her about demand of LCD TV, motorcycle and gold
ring (made by the accused persons). She also deposed that a few
days thereafter Manjeet Kaur again called her and informed that FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 21 of 33 Digitally signed ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:58:10 +05'30'
 accused persons were harassing and torturing her and
commenting that she had not brought sufficient dowry in
marriage. She also testified that on 11.05.2013 Manjeet again
called her and informed that accused persons were subjecting her
to severe torture. However, when PW-8 proposed to come to her
daughter's matrimonial home at once, then her daughter informed
that she would come with Chander Singh. During cross-
examination, PW-8 revealed that she did not make any written or
oral complaint at or about the time when her daughter told her
about the harassment by accused persons. She also disclosed that
no complaint was made to police on 11.05.2013 about the alleged
severe torture of her daughter. She also admitted that no scuffle
or quarrel between accused Chander Singh and Manjeet Kaur had
occurred in her presence. 13. PW-9 Darshan Singh stated that his daughter was
subjected to mental and physical torture by her mother-in-law
and other family members after about one month of marriage. He
also stated that the torture continued for 4-5 months. However,
during his cross-examination, he admitted that his daughter had
never talked to him personally about happenings at her in-law's
house. He revealed that he told police about whatever was told to
him by his wife about harassment of his daughter. These
statements of PW-9 are sufficient to conclude that his deposition
qua torture of his daughter at the hands of her in-laws are
hearsay. He admitted that he had not seen injury marks on body
of his daughter. He also admitted that during stay at his house FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 22 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:57:49 +05'30'
 accused Chander Singh and his daughter were happy and did not
quarrel. He was not able to recollect whether Chander Singh had
ever scolded his daughter in his presence. 14. Another intriguing aspect of the case is that (PW-9) father
of deceased stated that TV was given by them in marriage, but
Janki (PW-11) testified that she had gifted Videocon TV to her
niece Manjeet Kaur in marriage. However, no bill, invoice etc. of
TV or the proof of payment for the TV was placed on record by
PW-11. No photograph was tendered in evidence to show that
TV was indeed gifted by PW-11 in marriage of Manjeet Kaur.
She further stated that Manjeet Kaur visited her house and told
her that the accused persons asked for arranging LCD TV by
returning the TV and they also taunted her. PW-11 did not
specify the date, month or day of that visit of Manjeet Kaur. In
her cross-examination PW-11 admitted that she did not tell
mother or father of Manjeet Kaur about that conversation
between her and Manjeet Kaur qua LCD TV. She also stated that
she made no complaint against the accused persons about the
treatment meted out to Manjeet Kaur. In the absence of the
specific details and documents, it would be imprudent to rely
upon the testimony of PW-11 and the same has to be
corroborated in material particulars by other evidence. 15. PW-2 Avtar Singh testified that the accused persons
demanded gold ring for grandfather of Chander Singh, whereas
PW-8 Kamlesh Kaur stated that gold ring was demanded by FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 23 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:57:30 +05'30'
 Gunni Kaur (mother of Chander Singh) for herself but PW-9
Darshan Singh deposed that gold ring was demanded for father of
Chander Singh. In her cross-examination, PW-8 stated that
grandmother of Chander Singh had died 15 years ago and PW-2
also remembered going to native village of Chander Singh on
death of one of his grandparents. It appears that both the
grandparents of Chander Singh had already died, therefore, the
demand for gold ring could not have been made for grandfather
of Chander Singh. Moreover, as per list of articles given in
marriage (Ex.PW2/E), it is evident that a gold ring was already
gifted to father of Chander Singh, so no demand could have been
reasonably made for gold ring for father of Chander Singh. These
conflicting statements (qua demand of gold ring) made by
brother, mother and father of deceased further obfuscate the case
of prosecution rather than clarifying it. 16. The brother, mother and father of the deceased had
testified that household articles and jewellery were given in the
marriage of Manjeet Kaur. PW-2 (brother) stated that accused
persons and their family members never made any demand of
dowry in his presence at any point of time. He also revealed that
he had never been given any list of articles either by Chander
Singh or his mother for bringing the same. He also admitted the
suggestion that the articles given at the time of marriage were as
per the choice of the bride's family. He further clarified that those
articles were given as gifts in the marriage. PW-8 (mother) had
stated that no list of articles was handed over at the time of Roka FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 24 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:57:11 +05'30'
 ceremony to be given to the boy's side from their side. She also
testified that she was not given any list of articles by accused
persons or their family to be given in marriage. She also
disclosed that whatever was given, that was given of their own
sweet will. PW-9 (father) had stated that the accused persons had
not made any demand of dowry from him. It is surprising that
despite having ample opportunities to demand dowry, neither the
accused persons nor their family members ever broached this
subject with Manjeet Kaur's family till the date of her death. 17. Regarding the purchase of articles given in marriage, PW-
2 (brother) testified that he had not purchased the said articles i.e.
gold and silver ornaments, furniture etc. He voluntarily stated
that whatever was purchased, the same was purchased by his
parents at the time of engagement and marriage. He also clarified
that he was not a party to any purchase during marriage. PW-8
(mother) on the other hand stated that she did not make any
arrangement of marriage or purchase any articles and the same
was done by her husband (PW-9) and her son (PW-2). She
further clarified that no article was purchased in her presence.
PW-9 (Father) had deposed that the articles given in marriage
were not purchased in his presence and he claimed that the same
were purchased by his sister-in-law and mother-in-law. It is
noteworthy that no bills/receipts of the articles gifted in marriage
were furnished to police by the family of deceased Manjeet Kaur.
From the testimonies of PW-2, PW-8 and PW-9, it is exceedingly
clear that there is utter confusion about the persons who FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 25 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:56:51 +05'30'
 purchased the articles which were purportedly given in marriage
by the bride's side to the groom's family. No person has been
examined by the prosecution to prove that the articles mentioned
in the list Ex.PW2/E were actually purchased. 18. The portions highlighted in bold in the examination-in-
chief of PW-2 were not told by him to SDM while recording of
his statement Ex.PW2/A. PW-2 was confronted with the same
and he accepted that those portions of his examination-in-chief
did not form part of his statement made to SDM concerned.
Hence, it is evident that significant improvements,
embellishments and concoction etc. were made by PW-2 while
deposing before this court. Not only this, in his examination-in-
chief, he stated that he along with his mother attended a Mela
(fair) at Latipur, Hastinapur, Meerut, U.P. Accused persons along
with their family members and Manjeet Kaur had also gone there
but due to altercation between his mother and mother of Chander
Singh, they returned back to their house while Manjeet Kaur
returned to her matrimonial home. Furthermore, it has also come
in the cross-examination of PW-2 that he had gone to Latipur at
the time of death of grandparent of accused Chander Singh,
however, he was unsure whether the grandfather or the
grandmother of Chander Singh had passed away when he went to
Latipur. Not only this, none of the family members of deceased
Manjeet Kaur had deposed that they saw Chander Singh quarrel
with Manjeet Kaur or scold her. In fact none of them even saw
Manjeet Kaur and Chander Singh quarrel with each other. No FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 26 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:56:30 +05'30'
 proof of any beatings, thrashing etc. of Manjeet Kaur by her
husband or in-laws is placed on record. In testimony of PW-8, it
is mentioned that Chander Singh used to come home only at
night on Sunday and leave in the morning whereas during the rest
of the week, he used to remain at Faridabad. Thus, the question
of Chander Singh harassing or subjecting Manjeet Kaur to
cruelty in connection with demand of dowry does not arise.
Furthermore, on 11.05.2013 Chander Singh was not at home as is
evident from a perusal of the testimony of PW-8 Kamlesh Kaur.
Upon perusal of entire material, it does not appear that the
relations between the family of Chander Singh and family of
Manjeet Kaur were strained, the same appeared to be cordial as
both the families were frequently visiting each other's home and
attending marriage functions, fairs and other ceremonies etc. 19. Regarding the alleged demands made for dowry, PW-2
claimed that he met father, brother, sister and mother of Chander
Singh and assured them that their demands would be met but
they should not harass or torture Manjeet Kaur. If such an
assurance was ever given, then there was no reason for accused
persons to harass or torture Manjeet Kaur and they could have
directly talked to the family members of Manjeet Kaur qua the
assurance given by them. 20. No specific or definitive dates of torture or harassment of
Manjeet Kaur have been mentioned/revealed by any of the
witnesses. It is also not revealed as to what kind of torture or FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 27 of 33 ANURAG Digitally signed by
 ANURAG THAKUR

 THAKUR 23:56:08 +05'30'
 Date: 2025.11.18
 harassment was inflicted upon Manjeet Kaur. Even there is a
confusion about the date when last call was allegedly received
from Manjeet Kaur by her mother qua the torture. It was either
11.05.2013 or 12.05.2013. Moreover, in her cross-examination
PW-8 stated that she did not recollect anything specific about
11.05.2013, 12.05.2013 and 13.05.2013 regarding the call made
by her daughter. No specific dates or times of any other calls by
Manjeet Kaur to her mother and brother were revealed in their
testimonies. In the absence of specific details it is difficult to
even conclude whether any such calls were actually made by
Manjeet Kaur or not. 21. In the case of Preeti Gupta & Anr. vs State of Jharkhand ,
AIR 2010 SC 3363; the Apex Court observed as under:- In this case, general omnibus allegations have been made by the
family members of the deceased against the accused persons. The
allegations lack details. The testimony of father (PW-9) is
hearsay qua the allegations of demand of dowry and torture of his
daughter at the hands of the accused persons. The testimonies of
brother and mother of the deceased are not ad-idem about the
dates and times when Manjeet Kaur was harassed. PW-2 stated
that the harassment started almost immediately upon setting foot
in the matrimonial home whereas PW-8 had deposed that the first
demand was made sometime after three months or so of
marriage. It also has to be borne in mind that Manjeet Kaur died
on 13.05.2013 at about 9 pm whereas the statements of family
members were recorded on 14.05.2013 by the SDM thereby
giving them enough time for deliberation, concoction and
tutoring. The FIR was lodged only in afternoon of 14.05.2013.
The statements made to SDM did not possess the quality of
promptness and spontaneity and could have been made with
ulterior motive. 22. To conclude, (i) there is nothing concrete on record to
show that Manjeet Kaur was ever subjected to cruelty qua the
demand of dowry, (ii) independent witnesses i.e. PW-14 and PW-
16 have not supported the case of the prosecution, (iii) there are
material contradictions in testimonies of PW-2 and PW-8, (iv) the
testimony of PW-9 being hearsay qua cruelty and demand of FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 29 of 33 Digitally signed ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:55:26 +05'30'
 dowry, (v) no proof of calls made by deceased to her family
members etc. (vi) no evidence of any articles given as gift in
marriage and (vii) absence of Chander Singh from the
matrimonial house for almost the entire time; even the
ingredients of offence punishable u/s 498A IPC are not made out,
so there is no question of raising presumption u/s 113B Indian
Evidence Act, 1872. Accordingly, the accused persons are
acquitted for the offence punishable u/s 498A / 304B / 34 IPC. Even
the alternative charge u/s 302 / 34 IPC is not made out as no foul
play is attributable to the accused persons in the death of Manjeet
Kaur. Moreover, Chander Singh was not even in Delhi at the time
of Manjeet Kaur. Thus, the accused persons are also acquitted of
the alternative charge u/s 302 / 34 IPC. Dictated and announced Digitally signed
 th
in open court on 18 November, 2025. ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:55:06 +05'30'

 (Anurag Thakur)
 Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC) (East)
 Karkardooma Courts, Delhi

This judgment consists of 33 pages
and each and every page of this
judgment is signed by me. clothes etc. of deceased handed over by Doctor 45. Ex.PW21/C Arrest Memo of accused Chander Singh 46. Ex.PW21/D Personal Search Memo of accused Chander Singh 47. Ex.P-3 One Chunni seized from the spot 48. Ex.P-4 Bunch of hair 49. Ex.PW22/A Report of Asst. Director (Chemistry), FSL, Rohini 50. Ex.PW23/A Original Rukka 51. Ex.PW23/B Disclosure Statement of Chander Singh 52. Ex.PW23/C Site Plan of place of incident 53. Ex.PW23/D Request Letter of subsequent opinion from Doctor of
 Forensic Deptt., LBS Hospital 54. Ex.PW23/E Letter dated 18.10.2013 qua final opinion regarding FIR No.313/2013 PS Kalyan Puri State Vs Chander Singh & Anr. Page 32 of 33 Digitally signed ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:54:23 +05'30'
 cause of death (after receipt of FSL Report) addressed to
 HOD Forensic Deptt., LBS Hospital 55. Ex.PW24/A Endorsement made by then SHO PS Kalyan Puri to SI
 Santosh Pabri to register FIR and investigate the same

 LIST OF DEFENCE DOCUMENTS

S. Nos. Exhibit Number Description 1. Mark DW1/A Certificate issued by Office Bearers of
 Gurudwara at Faridabad. ANURAG by ANURAG
 THAKUR
 THAKUR Date: 2025.11.18
 23:54:00 +05'30'