1. The present revision petition is filed challenging the order dated
 24.12.2024 (hereafter 'impugned order'), passed by the learned
 District Judge, South East District, Saket Court, New Delhi in CS No.
 3503/24. 2. Application filed by the petitioner (Defendant No.1) seeking
 rejection of the plaint under Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908 (' CPC ') was dismissed by the impugned order. 3. The brief facts of the case are as follows: By way of the same forged and fabricated Board Resolution,
 Respondent No. 5 appointed one Sahil Sadhna as Additional Director
 of Respondent No.4 company with effect from 07.01.2022. The
 plaintiffs learnt of the fraudulent act on 16.02.2022, but due to loan
 liabilities, they were unable to take any action and had no choice but
 to reflect the changes in this regard in the Annual Report of
 Respondent No.4 company. 3.6. Although settlement of debt was delayed, the entire loan
 amount is claimed to have been repaid by 04.09.2024, and discussions
 were allegedly underway for calculation of interest. Soon after the
 same, the plaintiffs were served with a petition filed by the petitioner Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 5 of 65 22:24:26 firm before the learned National Company Law Tribunal, Allahabad
 ('NCLT') for oppression and mismanagement in Respondent No.4
 company, and an ex-parte order dated 07.11.2024 has been passed
 restraining Respondent No. 4 company from making any changes in
 constitution of board without leave of the learned Tribunal. It is
 claimed that upon perusal of the petition, it was found that the
 defendants had set out a fraudulent narrative around the loan
 transactions and falsely claimed that the loan amount was actually
 consideration for the shares of Respondent No. 4 company and a
 Shareholders Agreement dated 30.07.2020 (hereafter 'the
 Shareholders Agreement') had been executed to this effect. Reliance
 was found to be placed on certain other documents purportedly signed
 by the plaintiffs whereby the transfer of shares was allegedly
 approved. It is claimed that the signatures of the plaintiffs on the
 documents in question are forged. 3.7. It is claimed that the defendants colluded to create ante dated
 and forged Shareholders Agreement as well as other documents like
 board resolutions and security transfer forms, which have been
 challenged in the suit, for the purpose of misusing the same to
 undermine the operations of Respondent No.4 company and create
 third party rights. A police complaint was also made by the plaintiffs
 to this effect. 3.8. The petitioner firm filed an application under Order VII Rule 11
 of the CPC on the ground that the Court lacks subject matter Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 6 of 65 22:24:26 jurisdiction to entertain the plaint in view of the bar under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 as the learned NCLT has already assumed
 jurisdiction over the matter; the plaintiff's are guilty of forum
 shopping as they are seeking reliefs that overlap with the matter
 pending before the learned NCLT and the suit is without any cause of
 action; the suit is barred by law; the plaintiffs have suppressed
 material facts; the plaint is grossly undervalued and the Court lacks
 pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain the plaint. 3.9. By the impugned order, the learned Trial Court rejected the
 grounds agitated by the petitioner firm and found that the objections
 could be considered at the time of framing of issues. It was observed
 that as the plaintiffs' claim is primarily in relation to the issue of
 forgery of signatures and not for enforcement of any right or
 obligation, the dispute cannot qualify as a commercial dispute and the
 same falls under the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. It was further
 observed that as the suit essentially pertains to a dispute about the
 validity of documents, the same was not hit by the bar under Section
 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 as learned NCLT has no jurisdiction
 to declare documents as forged and only Civil Court has jurisdiction to
 decide issues of fraud. It was observed that not seeking cancellation of
 documents was not fatal to the maintainability of the suit as the
 plaintiffs had not admitted to the execution of the documents. The
 objections to maintainability on account of Section 41(b) of the
 Specific Relief Act, 1963 as well as forum shopping were also found
 to be unmerited. It was found that the plaint appeared to be properly Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 7 of 65 22:24:26 valued and the objections in relation to suppression of fact as well as
 limitation could not be adjudicated while adjudicating the application
 under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC . 3.10. Aggrieved by the impugned order, the petitioner has filed the
 present petition. 4. Extensive arguments were heard on behalf of the petitioner firm
 as well as the contesting respondents. Written submissions as well as
 compilations of relied upon judgments were also handed over in Court
 to endorse the submissions. 4.1. The matter was reserved for orders on 25.04.2025, whereafter,
 an application was filed on behalf of the petitioner seeking
 consideration of the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Apex Court in
 the case of Shailja Krishna v. Satori Global Ltd. : 2025 SCC OnLine
 SC 1889, which apparently had a direct bearing on the issues involved
 in the present case. Pursuant to the same, the matter was taken up for
 arguments again on 24.09.2025, 26.09.2025, 09.10.2025 and
 16.10.2025, when it was reserved again. 5. The learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the
 impugned order is bad in law as the objections raised by the petitioner
 have been summarily dismissed without proper application of mind
 which is against the principles of natural justice. 6. They submitted that the learned District Judge has committed a
 grave error in observing that the contention of the plaintiffs in relation Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 8 of 65 22:24:26 to forgery cannot be adjudicated by the learned NCLT, completely
 ignoring the specialized jurisdiction and wide powers conferred upon
 the learned NCLT. 7. They relied upon Rules 39, 43 and 70 of the NCLT Rules, 2016
 to contend that the NCLT is empowered to examine the issue of
 forgery and fabrication of documents. They submitted that the fact that
 the proceedings are pending before the learned NCLT and the
 plaintiffs are participating in the proceedings without jurisdictional
 objection makes the bar under Section 430 of the Companies Act,
 2013 absolute. They submitted that mere allegation of forgery cannot
 divest the learned NCLT of its jurisdiction and placed reliance on the
 following judgments to endorse that the learned NCLT is empowered
 to look into the issue of forgery: ii. Kavita Arora v. Leptons Designtek (P) Ltd. : (2024) 247
 Comp Cas 167; iii. SAS Hospitality (P) Ltd. v. Surya Constructions : (2019)
 212 Comp Cas 102; and

 iv. Channel Foods (P) Ltd. v. A.K. Nowshad : 2022 SCC
 OnLine NCLAT 4443. 8. They further submitted that the subject suit is filed on identical
 grounds which have been raised by the plaintiffs before the learned
 NCLT, and the plaintiffs have also filed a criminal complaint which
 amounts to abuse of process of law. 9. They submitted that it is settled law that the proper valuation of
 a plaint goes to the root of the matter and the documentary evidence
 and the pleadings clearly show the transaction value of ₹20 crores
 against the artificial valuation of ₹13.26 lakhs. They submitted that the
 valuation of the suit is arbitrary and the same does not reflect the real
 value of the relief sought by the plaintiffs. They submitted that despite
 the same, the learned District Judge has relegated the matter to trial
 even though the matter is clearly beyond the pecuniary jurisdiction of
 the Court. 10. They further submitted that even otherwise, the present dispute
 is manifestly commercial in nature and the learned District Judge has
 erred in interpreting the scope of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 by
 observing that the dispute must primarily relate to commercial
 transactions rather than questions of validity of commercial documents
 to qualify as commercial in nature. They submitted that merely
 because forgery is alleged, the same cannot take the dispute outside
 the purview of Commercial Courts when the underlying transactions
 are commercial in nature. Reliance was placed on the following
 judgments: ii. TV Today Network Ltd. v. News Laundry Media (P) Ltd. : iii. Modi Stratford Enterprise Management (P) Ltd. v. Punjab
 & Sind Bank : 2024 SCC OnLine Del 1441; and Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 10 of 65 22:24:26 iv. Amanpreet Kohli v. Pankaj Dayal : 2023 SCC OnLine Del 1808 11. Per contra, the learned counsel for the plaintiffs contested that
 the present petition is liable to be dismissed as the learned District
 Judge committed no error of jurisdiction or material irregularity so as
 to warrant interference in revisional jurisdiction. 12. They submitted that the issue of forgery cannot be adjudicated
 by the learned NCLT or any other forum which exercises summary
 jurisdiction and the jurisdiction to decide complex issues of facts and
 law as well as allegations of fraud and forgery continue to remain with
 the Civil Court. They submitted that certain documents annexed with
 the plaint, including the Forensic Examination Report dated
 26.11.2024, will have to be examined through a thorough trial. They
 submitted that there is no provision under the Companies Act, 2013 which vests the learned NCLT with the jurisdiction to grant the relief
 as prayed for in the subject suit. They further submitted that the draft
 of the Shareholders Agreement was shared with the defendants
 through email after the purported execution of the said agreement
 which clearly shows that the agreement is forged and the dispute in
 relation to veracity of the same cannot be looked into by the learned
 NCLT. They relied upon the following judgments in this regard: Reliance was placed on the following judgment in the case of Ambalal
 Sarabhai Enterprises Ltd. v. K.S. Infraspace LLP : ( 2020) 15 SCC
 585 and Lord Grih Nirman Pvt. Ltd. v. Merlin Projects : APOT
 225/2024 (Division Bench of Calcutta High Court). 17. They further relied upon the judgment in the case of IHHR
 Hospitality (Andhra) (P) Ltd. v. Seema Swami : 2022 SCC OnLine
 Del 3636 to contend that for a dispute to qualify as a commercial
 dispute, the same has to be in the ordinary course of business by the
 named class of persons. They submitted that even if the Shareholders
 Agreement is considered to be validly executed, considering that
 neither the petitioner firm nor the defendants are in the business of
 providing loans, the dispute arising from the agreement cannot be
 classified as a "commercial dispute". 18. They submitted that the objective of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 cannot be achieved if commercial courts are saddled with
 the task of ascertaining the very existence of a document which forms
 the basis of the dispute. They submitted that even if it is found that the
 dispute is commercial in nature, the same cannot lead to rejection of Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 13 of 65 22:24:26 plaint and the plaint will need to be returned in such circumstances. 19. The learned counsel for Respondent No.4 company supported
 the arguments advanced on behalf the plaintiffs. ANALYSIS 20. At the outset, it is relevant to note that the petitioner has
 challenged the impugned order by invoking the revisional jurisdiction
 of this Court. It is trite law that the scope of revision under Section
 115 of the CPC is very limited and is to be exercised only if the
 subordinate Court appears to have exceeded its jurisdiction or to have
 failed to exercise its jurisdiction, or if the subordinate Court has
 exercised its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity. LAW IN RELATION TO ORDER VII Rule 11 OF THE CPC 21. The law in relation to rejection of plaint under Order VII Rule
 11 of the CPC is well settled. The said Rule provides for summary
 dismissal of a suit at the threshold, before the parties have led their
 evidence, if one of the grounds stipulated therein is made out. The
 purpose of the said provision is to stifle sham civil actions and quell
 bogus and meaningless suits at the outset when the said suits ex facie
 appear to be an abuse of the process of law, without further wasting
 judicial time. 22. Considering that the power to terminate the action without even
 allowing the claimant to lead evidence and establish its case is a Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 14 of 65 22:24:26 drastic one, the Court is required to limit itself to discerning whether
 the plaint prima facie discloses a cause of action by perusing the
 substance of the averments, without paying any heed to the pleas taken
 in the written statement. While the Court is not precluded from
 intervening when the litigation is manifestly vexatious, at the same
 time, if a prima facie case is made out, it is not open to the Court to
 conduct an enquiry into the merit or trustworthiness of the allegations.
 The Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Dahiben Vs. Arvinbhai
 Kalyanji Bhansai : (2020) 7 SCC 366 has succinctly discussed the
 law in relation to Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC . The relevant portion
 of the same is reproduced hereunder: "23. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties, perused
 the plaint and documents filed therewith, as also the written
 submissions filed on behalf of the parties. xxx

 23.2. The remedy under Order 7 Rule 11 is an independent and
 special remedy, wherein the court is empowered to summarily
 dismiss a suit at the threshold, without proceeding to record
 evidence, and conducting a trial, on the basis of the evidence
 adduced, if it is satisfied that the action should be terminated on
 any of the grounds contained in this provision. 23.3. The underlying object of Order 7 Rule 11(a) is that if in a
 suit, no cause of action is disclosed, or the suit is barred by
 limitation under Rule 11(d), the court would not permit the plaintiff
 to unnecessarily protract the proceedings in the suit. In such a
 case, it would be necessary to put an end to the sham litigation, so
 that further judicial time is not wasted. 23.4. In Azhar Hussain v. Rajiv Gandhi , 1986 Supp SCC 315, this
 Court held that the whole purpose of conferment of powers under
 this provision is to ensure that a litigation which is meaningless,
 and bound to prove abortive, should not be permitted to waste
 judicial time of the court.... 23.5. The power conferred on the court to terminate a civil action
 is, however, a drastic one, and the conditions enumerated in
 Order 7 Rule 11 are required to be strictly adhered to. 23.6. Under Order 7 Rule 11, a duty is cast on the court to
 determine whether the plaint discloses a cause of action by
 scrutinising the averments in the plaint [ Liverpool & London S.P.
 & I Assn. Ltd. v. M.V. Sea Success I , (2004) 9 SCC 512], read in
 conjunction with the documents relied upon, or whether the suit is
 barred by any law. xxx

 23.9. In exercise of power under this provision, the court would
 determine if the assertions made in the plaint are contrary to
 statutory law, or judicial dicta, for deciding whether a case for
 rejecting the plaint at the threshold is made out. 23.10. At this stage, the pleas taken by the defendant in the written
 statement and application for rejection of the plaint on the merits,
 would be irrelevant, and cannot be adverted to, or taken into
 consideration. [ Sopan Sukhdeo Sable v. Charity Commr. , (2004) 3
 SCC 137]

 23.11. The test for exercising the power under Order 7 Rule 11 is
 that if the averments made in the plaint are taken in entirety, in
 conjunction with the documents relied upon, would the same
 result in a decree being passed... 23.12. In Hardesh Ores (P) Ltd. v. Hede & Co. [Hardesh Ores (P)
 Ltd. v. Hede & Co., (2007) 5 SCC 614] the Court further held that
 it is not permissible to cull out a sentence or a passage, and to read
 it in isolation. It is the substance, and not merely the form, which
 has to be looked into. The plaint has to be construed as it stands,
 without addition or subtraction of words. If the allegations in the
 plaint prima facie show a cause of action, the court cannot
 embark upon an enquiry whether the allegations are true in
 fact. D. Ramachandran v. R.V. Janakiraman , (1999) 3 SCC 267;
 See also Vijay Pratap Singh v. Dukh Haran Nath Singh , AIR 1962
 SC 941]. 23.13. If on a meaningful reading of the plaint, it is found that
 the suit is manifestly vexatious and without any merit, and does
 not disclose a right to sue, the court would be justified in
 exercising the power under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC . 23.14. The power under Order 7 Rule 11 CPC may be exercised by
 the court at any stage of the suit, either before registering the
 plaint, or after issuing summons to the defendant, or before
 conclusion of the trial, as held by this Court in the judgment
 of Saleem Bhai v. State of Maharashtra , (2003) 1 SCC 557. The
 plea that once issues are framed, the matter must necessarily go to
 trial was repelled by this Court in Azhar Hussain v. Rajiv
 Gandhi , 1986 Supp SCC 315. Followed in Manvendrasinhji
 Ranjitsinhji Jadeja v. Vijaykunverba, 1998 SCC OnLine Guj
 281 : (1998) 2 GLH 823. 23.15. The provision of Order 7 Rule 11 is mandatory in nature. It
 states that the plaint "shall" be rejected if any of the grounds
 specified in clauses (a) to (e) are made out. If the court finds that
 the plaint does not disclose a cause of action, or that the suit is
 barred by any law, the court has no option, but to reject the
 plaint." (emphasis supplied) Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 17 of 65 22:24:26 23. The maintainability of suits such as this one, which are filed in
 Civil Courts (under the Specific Relief Act, 1963 or the CPC ) seeking
 declaratory relief on the aspect of forgery or invalidity of documents
 (e.g., share transfers, agreements, or company records), in response to
 ongoing or related NCLT proceedings under Companies Act, 2013 (such as for oppression and mismanagement under Sections 241-242 of the Companies Act, 2013), are to be thus tested at the threshold
 under Order VII Rule 11(d) of the CPC . This provision allows
 rejection of the plaint if it appears "barred by law", including, by
 invoking the clauses pertaining to ouster of subject matter jurisdiction. 24. Although the petitioner had agitated a number of grounds in its
 application under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC , the impugned order
 has been assailed before this Court on essentially three grounds- the
 suit could not be entertained by a Civil Court on account of the bar
 under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013; even if the suit is
 found to be maintainable, the same pertains to a commercial dispute in
 terms of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 ; and the plaint is miserably
 undervalued. BAR UNDER SECTION 430 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 25. This Court deems it apposite to first consider the issue of the
 bar under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 as the same goes to
 the very root of the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. 26. As noted above, the petitioner has initiated a petition before the
 learned NCLT alleging oppression and mismanagement against
 Respondent No.4 company and others (including the plaintiffs) under Sections 59 , 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, 2013 (" Companies
 Act "). It was only thereafter that Respondent Nos. 1 to 3 filed the civil
 suit for declaration of the share title documentation, including the
 Shareholders Agreement dated 30.07.2020 as well as the securities
 transfer forms and certain Board Resolutions, as non-est, null and void
 on account of the same bearing their forged signatures. 27. It is argued that the present dispute fundamentally arises from a
 corporate transaction involving share transfers, board appointments
 and related corporate actions which squarely fall within the
 jurisdiction of the learned NCLT, and without awaiting the
 determination on the said issues in the petition instituted by the
 petitioner firm, the subject suit has been filed which amounts to forum
 shopping. It is further argued that the same is in teeth of the bar
 stipulated under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 which bars
 the jurisdiction of civil court to entertain any suit or proceeding in
 respect of any matter which the Tribunal is empowered to determine. 28. It is the case of the plaintiffs that the allegations in the present
 case cannot be adjudicated by NCLT or any forum which exercises
 summary jurisdiction as the same relates to complex issues of fact, and
 it has been rightly held by the learned Trial Court that matters of fraud
 can only be determined by a Civil Court. The said assertion is Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 19 of 65 22:24:26 contested on behalf of the petitioner and it is asserted that such issues
 of fabrication and forgery squarely lie within the jurisdiction of
 NCLT. Relevant statutory provisions and Rules 29. Before delving into the facts of the case to adjudicate the said
 objection, it is pertinent to first take note of certain provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 which are relevant for deciding the issue at
 hand. The same are set out below: Provided that the applications under this sub-section, in respect of
 such company or class of companies, as may be prescribed, shall
 be made before the Principal Bench of the Tribunal which shall be
 dealt with by such Bench. (3) Where in the opinion of the Central Government there exist
 circumstances suggesting that-- (a) any person concerned in the conduct and management
 of the affairs of a company is or has been in connection
 therewith guilty of fraud, misfeasance, persistent
 negligence or default in carrying out his obligations and
 functions under the law or of breach of trust; (b) the business of a company is not or has not been
 conducted and managed by such person in accordance with
 sound business principles or prudent commercial practices; (c) a company is or has been conducted and managed by
 such person in a manner which is likely to cause, or has
 caused, serious injury or damage to the interest of the
 trade, industry or business to which such company
 pertains; or (d) the business of a company is or has been conducted and
 managed by such person with intent to defraud its creditors,
 members or any other person or otherwise for a fraudulent
 or unlawful purpose or in a manner prejudicial to public
 interest,

 the Central Government may initiate a case against such person
 and refer the same to the Tribunal with a request that the Tribunal
 may inquire into the case and record a decision as to whether or
 not such person is a fit and proper person to hold the office of
 director or any other office connected with the conduct and
 management of any company. (4) The person against whom a case is referred to the Tribunal
 under sub-section (3), shall be joined as a respondent to the
 application. (5) Every application under sub-section (3)-- (a) shall contain a concise statement of such circumstances
 and materials as the Central Government may consider
 necessary for the purposes of the inquiry; and (b) shall be signed and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908), for the
 signature and verification of a plaint in a suit by the
 Central Government. 242. Powers of Tribunal.--(1) If, on any application made under Section 241 , the Tribunal is of the opinion-- (a) that the company's affairs have been or are being
 conducted in a manner prejudicial or oppressive to any
 member or members or prejudicial to public interest or in a
 manner prejudicial to the interests of the company; and (b) that to wind up the company would unfairly prejudice
 such member or members, but that otherwise the facts
 would justify the making of a winding-up order on the
 ground that it was just and equitable that the company
 should be wound up,

 the Tribunal may, with a view to bringing to an end the matters
 complained of, make such order as it thinks fit. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers under sub-
 section (1), an order under that sub-section may provide for-- (a) the regulation of conduct of affairs of the company in
 future; (b) the purchase of shares or interests of any members of
 the company by other members thereof or by the company; (c) in the case of a purchase of its shares by the company as
 aforesaid, the consequent reduction of its share capital; (d) restrictions on the transfer or allotment of the shares
 of the company; (e) the termination, setting aside or modification, of any
 agreement, howsoever arrived at, between the company Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 22 of 65 22:24:26 and the managing director, any other director or
 manager, upon such terms and conditions as may, in the
 opinion of the Tribunal, be just and equitable in the
 circumstances of the case; (f) the termination, setting aside or modification of any
 agreement between the company and any person other
 than those referred to in clause (e): (4-A) At the conclusion of the hearing of the case in respect of sub-
 section (3) of Section 241 , the Tribunal shall record its decision
 stating therein specifically as to whether or not the respondent is a
 fit and proper person to hold the office of director or any other
 office connected with the conduct and management of any
 company. (5) Where an order of the Tribunal under sub-section (1) makes
 any alteration in the memorandum or articles of a company, then,
 notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the company shall
 not have power, except to the extent, if any, permitted in the order,
 to make, without the leave of the Tribunal, any alteration
 whatsoever which is inconsistent with the order, either in the
 memorandum or in the articles. (6) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), the alterations
 made by the order in the memorandum or articles of a company
 shall, in all respects, have the same effect as if they had been duly
 made by the company in accordance with the provisions of this Act
 and the said provisions shall apply accordingly to the
 memorandum or articles so altered. (7) A certified copy of every order altering, or giving leave to alter,
 a company's memorandum or articles, shall within thirty days after
 the making thereof, be filed by the company with the Registrar who
 shall register the same. (8) If a company contravenes the provisions of sub-section (5), the
 company shall be punishable with fine which shall not be less than
 one lakh rupees but which may extend to twenty-five lakh rupees
 and every officer of the company who is in default shall be
 punishable with fine which shall not be less than twenty-five
 thousand rupees but which may extend to one lakh rupees. 430. Civil court not to have jurisdiction.--No civil court shall have
 jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of any
 matter which the Tribunal or the Appellate Tribunal is
 empowered to determine by or under this Act or any other law for
 the time being in force and no injunction shall be granted by any
 court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be
 taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act or
 any other law for the time being in force, by the Tribunal or the
 Appellate Tribunal." 30. The petitioner has also placed reliance on certain rules to
 endorse its contention that NCLT is empowered to adjudicate such
 issues of fraud, whereby this Court considers it apposite to also take
 note of the relevant rules in NCLT Rules, 2016 which stipulate the
 powers of the Tribunal. The same are set out below: 43. Power of the Bench to call for further information or
 evidence.--(1) The Bench may, before passing orders on the
 petition or application, require the parties or any one or more of
 them, to produce such further documentary or other evidence as it
 may consider necessary-- (a) for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the truth of the
 allegations made in the petition or application; or (b) for ascertaining any information which, in the opinion of the
 Bench, is necessary for the purpose of enabling it to pass orders in
 the petition or application. (2) Without prejudice to sub-rule (1), the Bench may, for the
 purpose of inquiry or investigation, as the case may be, admit such
 documentary and other mode of recordings in electronic form Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 26 of 65 22:24:26 including e-mails, books of accounts, book or paper, written
 communications, statements, contracts, electronic certificates and
 such other similar mode of transactions as may legally be
 permitted to take into account of those as admissible as evidence
 under the relevant laws. (3) Where any party preferring or contesting a petition of
 oppression and mismanagement raises the issue of forgery or
 fabrication of any statutory records, then it shall be at liberty to
 move an appropriate application for forensic examination and the
 Bench hearing the matter may, for reasons to be recorded, either
 allow the application and send the disputed records for opinion of
 Central Forensic Science Laboratory at the cost of the party
 alleging fabrication of records, or dismiss such application. 52. Summoning of witnesses and recording Evidence.--(1) If a
 petition or an application is presented by any party to the
 proceedings for summoning of witnesses, the Tribunal shall issue
 summons for the appearance of such witnesses unless it considers
 that their appearance is not necessary for the just decision of the
 case. (2) Where summons are issued by the Tribunal under sub-rule (1)
 to any witness to give evidence or to produce any document, the
 person so summoned shall be entitled to such travelling and daily
 allowance sufficient to defray the travelling and other expenses as
 may be determined by the Registrar which shall be deposited by the
 party as decided by the Registrar. 146. Disposal of Cases.--On receipt of an application, petition,
 appeal etc, the Tribunal, after giving the parties a reasonable
 opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as it thinks
 fit: examination of deponent, if so required. The Tribunal can also call for
 production of additional evidence as well as further information, and
 summon witnesses for recording evidence. Rule 43 of the NCLT
 Rules, 2016 specifically provides that where in a case of oppression
 and mismanagement, either of the parties raise the issue of forgery or
 fabrication of any statutory records, the Tribunal can send the
 disputed records for opinion of CFSL for the purpose of satisfying
 itself as to the truth of the allegations. 33. A conjoint reading of Sections 430 , 241 and 242 of the
 Companies Act, 2013 along with the NCLT Rules (as set out above) Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 28 of 65 22:24:26 makes it apparent that the NCLT is empowered to adjudicate upon
 matters of the widest possible amplitude as far as company matters are
 concerned. Relevant Judicial precedents 34. Both the sides have relied upon a catena of judgments in
 support of their contentions. This Court considers it apposite to also
 discuss the relevant precedents to render a determination of the issue
 at hand. 34.1. In the case of Ammonia Supplies Corpn. (P) Ltd. v. Modern
 Plastic Containers (P) Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court was met
 with a case where the appellant company, which had been in
 liquidation since the year 1962, had invested in 50% stake of the
 respondent company in 1977. Purportedly, the investment was made
 due to familial ties between the beneficiary of the appellant company
 with the Managing Director of the respondent company. Disputes
 erupted after the death of the Managing Director of the respondent
 company, with his brothers denying the investment entirely and
 contesting that the claim of the appellant company, if any, was time-
 barred loan. Various documents relied upon by the appellant company
 were also denied as forged. The dispute led to the appellant company
 filing a composite petition under Sections 397 (Application to
 Company Law Board for relief in cases of oppression), 398
 (Application to Company Law Board for relief in cases of
 mismanagement) and 155 (rectification) of the Companies Act, 1956 , Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 29 of 65 22:24:26 which was dismissed in the year 1994 by the company judge holding
 that the summary jurisdiction of the company court is unsuitable for
 complex fraud/evidence issues, directing filing of a civil suit with
 leave under Section 446(2) of the Companies Act, 1956. The order of
 the company judge was affirmed by the Division Bench of the High
 Court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court allowed the appeal against the
 same, holding that Section 155 of the Companies Act, 1956 confers
 summary and exclusive jurisdiction for register rectification, and
 Company Court has wide exclusive discretion to adjudicate fraud
 disputes itself, if such disputes are within the peripheral field of
 rectification, or send the party to seek his relief before a Civil Court
 for adjudication of some facts falling outside the purview of
 rectification. It was noted that the deletion of proviso to Section 38 of
 the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (which empowered the Company
 Court to direct an issue to be tried in which any question of law may
 be raised) in the subsequent act does not enable a party to lay claim of
 many contentious issues for adjudication under the garb of
 rectification. The matter was remitted for fresh consideration to the
 High Court as it was felt that it would be appropriate for the Court to
 assess as to whether the documents which were alleged to be forged,
 were said to be so only to exclude the jurisdiction of the Court. The
 relevant portion of the judgment is as under: 26. The proviso gave discretion to the court to direct an issue of
 law to be tried, if raised. By this deletion, submission is that the
 Company Court now itself has to decide any question relating to
 the rectification of the Register including the law and not to send
 one to the civil court. There could be no doubt any question raised
 within the peripheral field of rectification, it is the court under Section 155 alone which would have exclusive jurisdiction.
 However, the question raised does not rest here. In case any claim
 is based on some seriously disputed civil rights or title, denial of
 any transaction or any other basic facts which may be the
 foundation to claim a right to be a member and if the court feels
 such claim does not constitute to be a rectification but instead
 seeking adjudication of basic pillar some such facts falling outside
 the rectification, its discretion to send a party to seek his relief
 before the civil court first for the adjudication of such facts, it
 cannot be said such right of the court to have been taken away
 merely on account of the deletion of the aforesaid proviso.
 Otherwise under the garb of rectification one may lay claim of
 many such contentious issues for adjudication not falling under it.
 Thus in other words, the court under it has discretion to find
 whether the dispute raised is really for rectification or is of such a
 nature that unless decided first it would not come within the
 purview of rectification... xxx 31...There is nothing under the Companies Act expressly barring
 the jurisdiction of the civil court, but the jurisdiction of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 31 of 65 22:24:26 "court" as defined under the Act exercising its powers under
 various sections where it has been invested with exclusive
 jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the civil court is impliedly barred.
 We have already held above the jurisdiction of the "court" under Section 155 , to the extent it has is exclusive, the jurisdiction of
 the civil court is impliedly barred. For what is not covered as
 aforesaid the civil court would have jurisdiction. Similarly we find
 even under Section 446(1) , its words itself indicate the jurisdiction
 of the civil court is not excluded. This sub-section states, "... no
 suit or legal proceedings shall be commenced ... or proceeded with
 ... except by leave of the court". The words "except by leave of the
 court" itself indicate on leave being given the civil court would
 have jurisdiction to adjudicate one's right. Of course discretion to
 exercise such power is with the "court". Similarly under Section
 446(2) , "court" is vested with powers to entertain or dispose of
 any suit or proceedings by or against the company. Once this
 discretion is exercised to have it decided by it, it by virtue of the
 language therein excludes the jurisdiction of the civil court. So
 we conclude that the principle of law as decided by the High
 Court that the jurisdiction of the court under Section 155 is
 summary in nature cannot be faulted. Reverting to the second
 limb of submission by learned counsel for the appellant that the
 Court should not have directed for seeking permission to file a suit
 only because a party for dispute's sake states that the dispute
 raised is a complicated question of facts including fraud to be
 adjudicated. The Court should have examined itself to see whether
 even prima facie what is said is a complicated question or not.
 Even dispute of fraud, if by a bare perusal of the document or
 what is apparent on the face of it on comparison of any disputed
 signature with that of the admitted signature the Court is able to
 conclude no fraud, then it should proceed to decide the matter
 and not reject it only because fraud is stated. Further on the other
 hand learned counsel for the respondent totally denies any share
 having been purchased by the appellant-Company or any amount
 paid to it. No transfer of any such share was ever approved by the
 Board of Directors. It is urged that the money even if advanced to
 Shri V.K. Bhargava by the appellant-Company, if at all, was a
 private transaction between the two with which the respondent-
 Company has no concern. So we find there is total denial by the
 respondent. 32. We have gone through the judgment of the High Court. It has
 rightly held the law pertaining to the jurisdiction of the "court"
 under Section 155 and even referred to some of the documents of Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 32 of 65 22:24:26 the appellant but concluded that since they are disputed and said to
 be forged hence it directed for seeking leave if advised for suit. We
 feel it would have been appropriate if the Court would have seen
 for itself whether these documents are disputed and if any
 document is alleged to be forged, whether it is said to be so only to
 exclude the jurisdiction of the Court or it is genuinely so. Similarly
 we feel appropriate that while deciding this the Court should take
 into consideration the submissions for the respondents, whether it
 would come within the scope of rectification or not in the light of
 what we have said above." (emphasis supplied)

 34.2. The dispute in Shashi Prakash Khemka v. NEPC Micon : (emphasis supplied)

 34.3. In the case of Chalasani Udaya Shankar and Ors. v. Lexus
 Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. : (2024) 10 SCC 303, the appellants
 therein had approached the NCLT by way of a company petition
 seeking rectification of the register of members and to initiate action
 for oppression and mismanagement, apart from criminal proceedings
 for committing fraud. Shares were acquired by one of the respondents
 via a share purchase agreement, pursuant to which, it was claimed that
 the appellants acquired the said equity shares by way of securities
 transfer deeds. It was claimed that share certificates were issued to the
 appellants and consideration was paid towards acquisition of shares.
 The petition for rectification was filed after the appellants found that
 annual returns and financial statements were filed with false
 information, erasing the shareholding of the appellants. The
 respondent company denied the transfer of shares, as claimed by the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 34 of 65 22:24:26 appellants, and it was alleged that the appellants had forged certain
 signatures on the share certificates. NCLT rejected the contentions of
 the appellants and observed that it had no jurisdiction to try the
 petition as it involved issues of fraud, etcetera. The appeal against the
 order passed by NCLT was dismissed by NCLAT. The Hon'ble Supreme Court restored the petition and observed that
 both NCLT and NCLAT had erred in not examining as to whether the
 issues raised by the respondents were mere moonshine. Relying on a
 catena of judgments, including Ammonia Supplies Corpn. (P) Ltd. v.
 Modern Plastic Containers (P) Ltd. ( supra) and Jai Mahal Hotels (P)
 Ltd. v. Devraj Singh : (2016) 1 SCC 423, it was observed that if an
 open and shut case of fraud is made out involving issues truly relating
 to "rectification", NCLT/ Company Law Board would be entitled to
 examine the same, and it is only complex questions of title which
 would fall outside its jurisdiction. The relevant portion of the
 judgment is reproduced hereunder: xxx Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 35 of 65 22:24:26 41. In the present case, proper verification of the assertions made
 by the parties was a sine qua non. The Acting President of NCLT,
 by failing to carry out the said exercise, failed to discharge the
 mandate of law. Exercise of power under Section 59 of the 2013
 Act is to be undertaken in right earnest by examining the material,
 evidence, and the facts on record. This has not been done. Rather,
 a narrow view was taken without calling upon Respondent 2 to
 prove the veracity of the contrary story put forth by him, despite
 receiving monies from the appellants. The facts, material, and
 evidence had to be examined in the context of the underlying
 facts, which would have included the receipt of monies, the
 signatures on the transfer deeds, etc. Needless to state, questions
 of fact must be decided on the principle of preponderance of
 probabilities, giving due weight to the specific facts, as found, so as
 to draw the conclusion that a reasonable person, acquainted with
 the relevant field, would draw on the basis of the same facts.
 (See High Court of Bombay v. Udaysingh [High Court of
 Bombay v. Udaysingh, (1997) 5 SCC 129 : 1997 SCC (L&S)
 1132].) 42. Neither the Acting President of NCLT nor Nclat examined,
 with any seriousness, the issues raised before them to come to a
 cogent conclusion as to whether the disputes raised by the
 respondents were mere moonshine. Notably, in Ammonia
 Supplies Corpn. [Ammonia Supplies Corpn. (P) Ltd. v. Modern
 Plastic Containers (P) Ltd. , (1998) 7 SCC 105] , this Court held to
 that effect in the context of Section 155 of the Companies Act,
 1956. Thereafter, in Adesh Kaur [Adesh Kaur v. Eicher Motors
 Ltd. , (2018) 7 SCC 709] also, this Court affirmed that if, on facts,
 an open-and-shut case of fraud is made out in favour of the
 person seeking rectification, the National Company Law
 Tribunal would be entitled to exercise such power under Section
 59 of the 2013 Act. Therefore, verification of this aspect was
 essential but NCLT failed to discharge this mandate." (emphasis supplied)

 34.4. Recently, the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Shailja
 Krishna v. Satori Global Ltd. (supra) held that NCLT has wide
 jurisdiction to examine allegations of fraud, manipulation, coercion as
 well as fabrication of documents (like gift deeds) in oppression and Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 36 of 65 22:24:26 mismanagement cases, which are incidental and integral to resolving
 the complaint. This power stems from the need to "bring an end to the
 matters complained of" [as expounded in Tata Consultancy Services
 Ltd. v. Cyrus Investments Pvt. Ltd. : (2021) 9 SCC 449], specific to
 any specific legislative bar restricting the power of NCLT in this
 respect. In Mrs. Shailja Krishna vs. Satori Global Limited & Ors (supra), the
 appellant (majority shareholder and director in the respondent
 company) alleged oppression and mismanagement through fraudulent
 acts, including a forged gift deed on the strength of which the
 appellant's shares were transferred, invalid board resolutions whereby
 the appellant's alleged resignation was accepted and one of the
 respondents was inducted as an additional director, and fabricated
 resignation records. The NCLT ruled in favour of the appellant and
 declared the transfer of the appellant's shares by way of the gift deed
 to be null and void. The appellant was also restored to her position as
 an executive director. Subsequently, NCLAT reversed the decision,
 holding the issues of fraud, forgery or coercion to be beyond NCLT's
 summary jurisdiction. The Hon'ble Supreme Court decided in favour of the appellant. It was
 observed that the circumstances surrounding the gift deed were
 seriously questionable and the board meetings had been conducted in a
 mala fide manner, which show that the affairs of the company in
 question were being conducted in a manner prejudicially affecting the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 37 of 65 22:24:26 appellant. The order of NCLAT was set aside and the NCLT's
 decision was restored, whereby the gift deed and share transfer forms
 were declared as invalid and set aside, emphasising NCLT's role in
 providing holistic remedies. Relying on the cases of M.S.D.C. Radharamanan v. M.S.D.
 Chandrasekara Raja : (2008) 6 SCC 750 and Kamal Kumar Dutta &
 Another. v. Ruby General Hospital Ltd. & Others. : (2006) 7 SCC
 613, where the power of the CLB/NCLT to grant diverse reliefs was
 broadly interpreted, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under: (emphasis supplied)

 34.5. In the case of SAS Hospitality (P) Ltd. & Anr. v. Surya
 Constructions Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. : 2018:DHC:6778, the plaintiff
 appellant-SAS Hospitality P. Ltd. filed a commercial suit seeking
 declaration that the allotment of shares of the defendant company in
 favour of Defendants 5 to 9 in the year 2013 was null and void. The
 plaintiff also sought decree of injunctions restraining defendants from
 giving effect to the allotment or exercising any voting rights or
 creating any third-party rights. The defendants moved an application
 under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC to reject the plaint as barred by Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013. Taking note of the change in
 legislative scheme, this Court held as under: xxx 19. The bar under Section 430 of the 2013 Act being absolute in
 nature, this Court is of the view that the jurisdiction to adjudicate
 the disputes raised in the present case vests with the NCLT. xxx 26. The bar under Section 430 of the 2013 Act has, therefore, to
 be strictly construed and there can be no doubt about that. The
 Division Bench also considered Dhulabai v. State of M.P. AIR
 1969 SC 78 (hereinafter, 'Dhulabai'), and held as under: Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases
 where the provisions of the particular Act have not
 been complied with or the statutory Tribunal has not
 acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of
 judicial procedure. (2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of
 the court, an examination of the scheme of the
 particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of
 the remedies provided may be relevant but is not
 decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.
 Where there is no express exclusion the examination of
 the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to
 find out the intendment becomes necessary and the
 result of the inquiry may be decisive. In the latter case
 it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special
 right or a liability and provides for the determination
 of the right or liability and further lays down that all
 questions about the said right and liability shall be
 determined by the Tribunals so constituted, and
 whether remedies normally associated with actions in
 civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not. (3) Challenge to the provisions of the particular Act as
 ultra vires cannot be brought before Tribunals
 constituted under that Act. Even the High Court cannot
 go into that question on a revision or reference from
 the decision of the Tribunals. (4) When a provision is already declared
 unconstitutional or the constitutionality of any
 provision is to be challenged, a suit is open. A writ of
 certiorari may include a direction for refund if the
 claim is clearly within the time prescribed by the Limitation Act but it is not a compulsory remedy to
 replace a suit. (5) Where the particular Act contains no machinery for
 refund of tax collected in excess of constitutional limits
 or illegality collected a suit lies. (6) Questions of the correctness of the assessment
 apart from its constitutionality are for the decision of
 the authorities and a civil suit does not lie if the orders
 of the authorities are declared to be final or there is an
 express prohibition in the particular Act. In either case
 the scheme of the particular Act must be examined
 because it is a relevant enquiry. (7) An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is
 not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above
 set down apply." (Emphasis supplied) 27. The Division Bench in Jai Kumar Arya (supra), after applying
 Dhulabai (supra), lays down the following test: 28. If these two tests are applied i.e., as to whether the Tribunal's
 order is attributed finality and as to whether the Tribunal would be
 able to do what a Civil Court could do, it is clear that an order
 under Section 59 of the 2013 Act has specific consequences for
 non-compliance. The order is appealable to the appellate tribunal.
 The Tribunal has to apply the principles of natural justice. Under Section 242(2)(d) of the 2013 Act, the Tribunal can impose
 restrictions on the transfer or allotment of the shares of the
 company. It can also pass an interim order under Section 242(4) of the 2013 Act. Consequences for non-compliance have also
 been provided under Section 242(4) of the 2013 Act. The Plaintiffs
 have a right to apply Section 242 of the 2013 Act as they own
 99.96% shareholding which has been diluted to 21.44%. Any
 member with more than 1/10th of the issued share capital can
 approach the Tribunal. Thus, even as per Jai Kumar Arya (supra),
 the order being one, which can be passed under Section 242 of the
 2013 Act, the NCLT has the jurisdiction. In Jai Kumar Arya (supra), the Court was concerned with the power of removal of
 directors, which is distinct from the disputes involved in the present
 case. However, by applying the tests laid down therein, it is clear
 in the facts of this case that involving issues relating to allotment
 of share capital, alteration and rectification of the register of Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 43 of 65 22:24:26 members, the NCLT is `empowered to decide' -leading to the
 conclusion that this Court has no jurisdiction." (emphasis supplied)

 34.6. In the case of Rajashree Devi vs. Bonai Industrial Company
 Ltd. & Ors. : R.S.A. No. 206 of 2022, the Hon'ble High Court of
 Orissa held that the plaintiff's grievance of illegal omission of his
 name as a Director of the Company without consent and inclusion of
 defendants in the Register of Members falls squarely within Section
 59 of the Companies Act, 2013, which is cognizable exclusively by
 NCLT. It was further held that Section 430 of the Companies Act,
 2013 ousts civil court jurisdiction for such matters and there is no
 triable issue warranting plenary adjudication. It was thus opined that
 the Trial Court and First Appellate Court were respectively justified in
 rejecting the plaint under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC , and the
 second appeal was dismissed with no interference. The Hon'ble High
 Court, relying upon the cases of SAS Hospitality (P) Ltd. & Anr. v.
 Surya Constructions Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. ( supra) and Shashi Prakash
 Khemka v. NEPC Micon (supra), held as follows: (emphasis supplied) 35. In Shazia Rehman v. Anwar Elahi (supra), the case involved a
 plaintiff who filed a commercial suit seeking relief of declaration with
 regard to 4556 shares in the defendant company, which were claimed
 to be fraudulently transferred by Defendant No. 1 without consent or
 consideration, reducing her shareholding from 12.77% to 1.39%. The
 suit was filed in response to issues raised in a prior NCLT petition (CP
 91/2016) where the plaintiff was a respondent and the reduced
 shareholding was highlighted. The forged transfer were central to the
 petition. The defendant's application under Order VII Rule 11 of the
 CPC (and Rule 10) for rejection of plaint was dismissed by this Court.
 It was held that the suit was maintainable as commercial suit under Commercial Courts Act, 2015 , as it involved complex issues of title,
 fraud and individual membership rights beyond NCLT's summary
 jurisdiction under Section 59 of the Companies Act, 2013. The Court
 distinguished from cases where relief was purely rectification without
 fraud and held that Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 does not
 bar jurisdiction for standalone declaratory relief on individual rights,
 as NCLT cannot grant such declaratory/injunctive relief pertaining to Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 45 of 65 22:24:26 individual rights of the plaintiff. The relevant portion of the judgment
 is as under: (emphasis supplied)

 Appraisal of the facts of the present case in light of the law as
 discussed above 36. In the impugned order, the learned District Judge has dismissed
 the objection of the petitioner in relation to bar under Section 430 of
 the Companies Act, 2013 on essentially two counts- firstly, that the
 learned NCLT does not have the jurisdiction to decide the dispute
 involved in the suit as the same pertains to declaration of certain
 documents as forged, which is primarily a civil dispute; and secondly,
 that the primary relief in the suit is in relation to declaration of certain
 documents as forged and the learned NCLT has no jurisdiction to
 declare documents as such, due to which, the suit is not hit by the bar
 under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013. 37. Firstly, insofar as the NCLT's jurisdiction to decide the issue of
 forgery is concerned, the plaintiffs allege that the basis on which the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 50 of 65 22:24:26 company petition is filed is itself under serious question as the
 documents on the basis of which the petitioner claims to be a
 shareholder are forged. Undisputably, the said defence has been
 agitated by the plaintiffs before the learned NCLT as well. 38. It is apparent from the aforesaid judgments that there is nothing
 in the Companies Act, 2013 which estops the NCLT from rendering a
 finding that the documents in question are forged, even under
 summary procedure, and the learned Trial Court has erred in holding
 that only the Civil Court is empowered to decide matters pertaining to
 fraud. 39. NCLT is a specialised Tribunal constituted for the purpose of
 speedier and effective regulation of the affairs of companies and Sub-
 clause 3 of Section 241 of the Companies Act, 2013 specifically
 provides that if there are circumstances which suggest that "any
 person concerned in the conduct and management of the affairs of a
 company is or has been in connection therewith guilty of fraud", the
 Central Government may initiate a case against such person and refer
 the same to the Tribunal, whereby NCLT has the power to "inquire
 into the case and record a decision". Thus, the questions pertaining to
 fraud are not alien to the NCLT as a Tribunal and as per the statute
 itself, it is apparent that the NCLT is capable to take a decision on the
 same. The fact that the jurisdiction under sub- section 3 of Section 241 the Companies Act, 2013 can be invoked only by the Central
 Government would not dilute the jurisdiction of the NCLT to take Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 51 of 65 22:24:26 cognizance of the matters concerning fraud, etcetera and to pass
 appropriate orders. 40. Having found that NCLT is not entirely barred from
 adjudicating issues of fraud and that the learned Trial Court had erred
 on the said fundamental aspect by holding that only Civil Courts have
 the jurisdiction to adjudicate such issues, it is now to be determined as
 to whether the issues as agitated in the present case in relation to
 forgery are such which cannot be looked into by NCLT. 41. Mere plea of forgery or fraud is not sufficient, by itself, to
 overcome the bar under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 and
 the jurisdiction of the Tribunal can only be ousted when the issue
 involved is not "within the peripheral field of rectification" and
 pertains to extensively complex questions. 42. Even if it is to be assumed that the forgery is so complex that it
 cannot be untangled by NCLT under a summary procedure, this Court
 is of the opinion that such pleas qua fraud or forgery cannot confer the
 jurisdiction upon the Civil Court to pre-empt adjudication of issues,
 which are already pending determination, before the learned NCLT
 has a chance to assess the material on record and arrive at such a
 conclusion, especially when NCLT prima facie seems empowered to
 look into the said issue. Concluding otherwise would result in pleas of
 fraud being agitated solely to oust the jurisdiction of the NCLT. As
 held in Ammonia Supplies Corpn. (P) Ltd. v. Modern Plastic
 Containers (P) Ltd. (supra), even where allegations of fraud are Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 52 of 65 22:24:26 made, it is incumbent that the learned NCLT determine as to whether
 such contentions are raised merely to oust its jurisdiction. 43. During the course of arguments, the petitioner had relied upon
 the case of Kavita Arora v. Leptons Designtek (P) Ltd. (supra), where
 a Coordinate Bench of this Court had found that the Tribunal has the
 requisite jurisdiction to adjudicate the allegations of forgery and
 fabrication by placing reliance upon Rule 43 of the NCLT Rules,
 2016, to contend that the NCLT is vested with sufficient powers to
 determine issues of fraud. The plaintiffs have contested the said
 assertion by arguing that the said Rule has limited applicability qua
 statutory records alone, however, the documents in the present case,
 including the Shareholders Agreement et al., have not been made part
 of the statutory records of the company. 44. While it may be correct that the documents in question are not
 part of the statutory record of Respondent No. 4 company, even
 otherwise, the Tribunal has wide powers to test the cogency of non-
 statutory documents as is evident from the Companies Act, 2013 as
 well as the NCLT Rules, 2016. 45. In the impugned order, the learned Trial Court has observed that
 the suit pertains to validity of documents and "not necessarily" a
 matter under the Companies Act, 2013 . Law laid down by the Hon'ble
 Apex Court in cases such as Shailja Krishna v. Satori Global Ltd.
 ( supra) and Chalasani Udaya Shankar and Ors. v. Lexus Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 53 of 65 22:24:26 Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. (supra) has established NCLT's
 expanding role in fraud, coercion or forgery adjudication. 46. The observation made by the learned Trial Court is therefore
 unmerited. In the opinion of this Court, the issue of fraud and
 fabrication as agitated by the plaintiffs is incidental and integral to the
 complaint alleging oppression and mismanagement filed by the
 petitioner, and the same thus falls within the remit of the learned
 NCLT. 47. In the present case, the plaint indicates that it is the case of the
 plaintiffs themselves that the fabrication of the main Shareholders
 Agreement dated 30.07.2020 is prima facie evident from a number of
 ancillary circumstances-two of the plaintiffs who had allegedly signed
 the agreement were not in Delhi or Uttar Pradesh on the concerned
 date; the agreement resembles a draft agreement shared subsequently;
 the signatures on the document being forged as apparently confirmed
 by forensic examination by government laboratory; the terms of the
 agreement being gross; the agreement not giving correct data
 pertaining to Respondent No.4 company on the concerned date; etc.
 Furthermore, the Securities Transfer forms and undated receipts for
 consideration are alleged to be similarly forged as they were never
 signed or executed by the plaintiffs, and some of the said documents
 allegedly contradict equity discussions. Similarly, the Board
 Resolutions are alleged to bear forged signatures of one of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 54 of 65 22:24:26 concerned plaintiffs and the same are allegedly also printed on the old
 letterhead. 48. Although there is some dispute as to the title of the shares of
 Respondent No.4 company, however, the test to oust the jurisdiction
 of the learned NCLT is to raise such seriously disputed questions of
 title and fraud, which are so complex, that they cannot be determined
 by the learned NCLT. 49. Prima facie, it does not seem that the facts are so complex or
 convoluted that the aforesaid issues cannot be determined by the
 Tribunal in exercise of its wide powers as encompassed in the Companies Act, 2013 and NCLT Rules, 2016. 50. Secondly, as far as the issue in relation to NCLT not having the
 jurisdiction to grant the reliefs that are sought is concerned,
 pertinently, Section 242 of the Companies Act, 2013 clearly
 empowers the NCLT to nullify the legal effect of such documents. In
 fact, where the lis concerns oppression and mismanagement under Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, 2013, the statute permits
 restrictions on transfer or allotment of shares; permits termination,
 setting aside or modification of agreements with directors, managers
 and with any other person, and concludes with a residuary head that
 the Tribunal may provide for any other matter for which it is just and
 equitable that provision should be made. 51. Reliance is placed by the plaintiffs on the case Shazia Rehman
 v. Anwar Elahi (supra) to contend that the power of the learned
 NCLT to grant reliefs is severely limited. As discussed above, in the
 said case, a Coordinate Bench of this Court was pleased to reject the
 argument raised by the defendant in relation to ouster of jurisdiction of
 Civil Court under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 as the
 plaint therein pertained to rectification of shares. While dismissing the
 application for rejection of plaint, the Coordinate Bench was
 particularly weighed by the judgment in Sita Chaudhry v. Verinder
 Singh : 2022 SCC OnLine Del 2235 (also relied upon by the
 plaintiffs), where it was held that rectification is only a subsequent
 step after question of title and ownership of shares is decided, and the
 exclusive jurisdiction vested with the Company Court is only in
 relation to rectification of register. It was also noted in that case that
 the right or title in shares can only be determined in a Civil Suit. The
 civil suit appears to have been filed after institution of proceedings
 before the learned NCLT in that case as well. 52. In Shazia Rehman v. Anwar Elahi (supra), reliance was also
 placed on the case of Naresh Dayal and Ors. v. The Delhi Gymkhana
 Club Ltd. and Ors. : (2021) SCC OnLine Del 91 to observe that
 NCLT is not empowered to decide and/or grant reliefs which
 predominantly pertain to individual rights, and that in case of
 individual rights of a member of a company, there is no remedy under
 the Companies Act, 2013 . In that case, the suit was filed by seven
 permanent members of the defendant club. The club contested Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 56 of 65 22:24:26 maintainability, claiming ouster under Section 430 of the Companies
 Act, 2013, as the dispute fell under NCLT's jurisdiction for
 oppression/mismanagement ( Section 242 of the Companies Act,
 2013). The court held the suit to be maintainable and held that Section
 242 of the Companies Act, 2013 empowers NCLT in cases of winding
 up and where the company's affairs are being conducted in a manner
 prejudicial to such members. It was noted that the plaintiffs' basis for
 instituting the suit was the manner in which Articles of Association
 was interpreted, which was purportedly creating irrational and illegal
 classification. It was noted that the same does not invoke "oppression"
 or require winding up. It was thus held that the NCLT lacks power to
 determine such standalone civil rights enforcement and the jurisdiction
 of the Civil Court under Section 9 of the CPC is not ousted. The
 relevant portion is as under: 53. It cannot be disputed that a Civil court's jurisdiction is ousted
 only to the extent the statutory forum is expressly and correspondingly
 empowered, and such exclusion is not to be lightly inferred. However,
 as already discussed, it has since been settled by the Hon'ble Apex
 Court that the NCLT possesses a wide jurisdiction to decide such
 issues which are integral to the subject complaint. 54. Pertinently, one of the issues involved in Shailja Krishna v.
 Satori Global Ltd. (supra) was that of transfer of title by way of a
 purportedly forged gift deed, and it was found that NCLT had full
 jurisdiction to determine the validity of the gift deed and to declare the
 transfer of shares as invalid. In Chalasani Udaya Shankar and Ors. v.
 Lexus Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. (supra), where the
 respondents had raised a similar defence qua title before NCLT and
 denied any transfer of shares to the party which had instituted the
 petition, the Hon'ble Apex Court had overturned the decision of
 NCLT, which had found that it had no jurisdiction to try the petition,
 and held that NCLT had erred in not examining as to whether the
 issues raised before them were mere moonshine. The said judgments
 make it clear that merely agitating issues of fraud or forgery will not
 dilute the bar under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 and it is
 for the Tribunal to make an assessment as to whether there is any
 cogency in such allegations and if the dispute is so complex that it
 cannot be decided by the Tribunal. The thin line is that if the dispute
 truly, in pith and substance, concerns rectification simpliciter or
 statutory oppression and mismanagement or matters falling under the Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 58 of 65 22:24:26 broad Companies Act regime, the specialised Tribunal is vested with
 exclusive jurisdiction to determine the same along with any other
 ancillary issues that are integral to determine the issue at hand. If such
 an argument is accepted, parties will agitate issues of fraud and
 coercion to simply cause ouster of NCLT's jurisdiction. This makes it
 important that once a case is instituted before NCLT involving such
 issues as well, no such case as the present one be instituted which
 involves the same issues, before NCLT itself makes a determination in
 regard to the cogency and complexity of the dispute. 55. Undisputably, where the plaintiff asserts public rights or raises
 seriously disputed questions of title that require declaratory and
 injunctive relief after evidence and trial, the remedy lies in the civil
 court. However, as noted above, in the present case, the issues sought
 to be agitated in the suit are such which are integral to the petition
 already filed by the petitioner before the learned NCLT. 56. Moreover, in the opinion of this Court, the words "any matter" 57. In the present case, at the cost of repetition, it is also imperative
 to emphasise that the learned NCLT has not yet made any such
 determination qua the cogency of such assertions or the complexity of
 the dispute. If the suit is allowed to continue, the same would also lead
 to multiplicity of proceedings which could lead to conflicting opinions
 on the same issues of fact and law. Principle of judicial comity and conundrum of parallel proceedings 58. At this juncture, it is imperative to take note of the principle of
 judicial comity. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Electrosteel Castings Ltd.
 v. UV Asset Reconstruction Co. Ltd. : (2022) 2 SCC 573 has held that
 mere allegations of fraud in the plaint will not overcome the bar under Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act. Pertinently, the provisions in relation to power of Debt Recovery
 Tribunal and the exclusion of Civil Court in regard to disputes under
 the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
 Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (' SARFAESI Act ') are
 somewhat similarly worded. Akin to Section 430 of the Companies Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 60 of 65 22:24:26 Act, 2013, Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act provides that a Civil
 Court shall have no jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in
 respect of any matter which a Debts Recovery Tribunal or Appellate
 Tribunal is empowered by or under the SARFAESI Act to determine. The said case involved an assignment deed, whereunder, proceedings
 were initiated against the plaintiff, who had stood as a guarantor,
 under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act and notice was issued to
 the plaintiff. The plaintiff claimed the assignment deed to be
 fraudulent and filed a suit before the Hon'ble High Court of Madras,
 which was dismissed as being barred by Section 34 of the SARFAESI
 Act. This case is crucial as the same was hinged on the fact that there were
 only allegations of fraud in the plaint without anything further. If there
 is something more than mere allegations of fraud, certainly, the Civil
 Court's jurisdiction will not be ousted, however , in that case it was
 found that the plaint was cleverly moulded to overcome the bar under Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act. The relevant paragraphs of the
 judgment are as under: 10. The aforesaid cannot be accepted. By that itself the assignment
 deed cannot be said to be "fraudulent". In any case, whether there
 shall be legally enforceable debt so far as the plaintiff-appellant
 herein is concerned even after the approved resolution plan
 against the corporate debtor still there shall be the liability of the
 plaintiff and/or the assignee can be said to be secured creditor
 and/or whether any amount is due and payable by the plaintiff, are
 all questions which are required to be dealt with and considered by
 the DRT in the proceedings initiated under the Sarfaesi Act . 11. It is required to be noted that as such in the present case the
 assignee has already initiated the proceedings under Section 13 which can be challenged by the plaintiff-appellant herein by way of
 application under Section 17 of the Sarfaesi Act before the DRT on
 whatever the legally available defences which may be available to
 it. We are of the firm opinion that the suit filed by the plaintiff-
 appellant herein was absolutely not maintainable in view of the bar
 contained under Section 34 of the Sarfaesi Act. Therefore, as such
 the courts below have not committed any error in rejecting the
 plaint/dismissing the suit in view of the bar under Section 34 of
 the Sarfaesi Act." (emphasis supplied) 59. Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 must be applied on the
 same first principles that animate in Section 34 of the SARFAESI Act. 60. As discussed above, the bar on the jurisdiction of the Civil
 Court is coextensive with the aspects which the special forum is
 empowered to determine, and not greater. The test is substance, not
 form. If the core controversy is one which the NCLT is empowered to
 decide by or under the Companies Act , the Civil Court's jurisdiction
 stands excluded to that extent and no injunction should be granted in Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 62 of 65 22:24:26 respect of any action taken or to be taken under the Act. In Electrosteel Castings Ltd. v. UV Asset Reconstruction Co. Ltd. (supra), the Hon'ble Apex Court has read Section 34 of the
 SARFAESI Act in this very manner, and warned that clever drafting
 or bare allegations of fraud cannot be used to evade a jurisdictional
 bar. 61. Similarly, clever drafting or crafty legal strategies must not be
 allowed to frustrate the process of law before the learned NCLT. In
 contradistinction to the SARFAESI Act, the Companies Act, 2013
 confers broad remedial powers on the Tribunal and under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013, the exception is narrow because the
 NCLT's just and equitable powers under Section 242 of the
 Companies Act, 2013 are intentionally wide. Disputes about the
 affairs of the company, its organs, its share capital, or its internal and
 managerial contracts belong to the NCLT, even if parties invoke labels
 such as declaration, injunction or fraud. Only claims that are genuinely
 external to company law, for example- a pure third-party property or
 tort claim unconnected with corporate affairs and for which the Companies Act, 2013 furnishes no forum or remedy, would escape Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013. 62. In every case, where the controversy is anchored in the
 company's affairs and the issue is one which the Tribunal or the
 Appellate Tribunal is empowered to determine the matter in question, Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013 bars parallel civil suits and Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 63 of 65 22:24:26 compels recourse to the NCLT and, in appeal, to the NCLAT,
 strengthening the case for regaling such disputes to the NCLT. 63. Even if the case of the plaintiffs is taken at the highest, the
 doctrine of judicial comity emphasises mutual respect and deference
 among courts to avoid conflicting decisions and to promote judicial
 harmony and may be invoked in challenges under Order VII Rule
 11(d) of the CPC (rejection of plaint as "barred by any law" due to
 statutory ouster or parallel proceedings). While comity is discretionary
 and often overlaps with statutory bars, it serves as an underlying
 principle to interpret these provisions, particularly in cases of
 concurrent jurisdiction or multiplicity of proceedings. 64. Courts ought to apply the said doctrine to restrain proceedings
 where another forum's authority is established, enduring efficiency
 without absolute ouster. In challenges under Order VII Rule 11(d) of
 the CPC , comity may be used to interpret "barred by law" broadly,
 including deference to foreign/prior forums, leading to rejection of
 plaint. 65. Once the issues as raised in the plaint have already been
 agitated in the company petition filed by the petitioner and the learned
 NCLT is seized of the said integral issues, the Civil Court cannot
 assume jurisdiction to adjudicate the same, unless it is so found at a
 subsequent stage while determining the issues at hand that the matter
 requires detailed and extensive trial into the allegations which cannot
 be undertaken by the learned NCLT. 66. Needless to say, if the Tribunal later finds the scope of dispute
 to be outside its jurisdiction, the plaintiffs would be at liberty to
 agitate the said issues in a civil proceeding thereafter. CONCLUSION 67. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the impugned order is set
 aside. Consequently, the plaint of the respondent plaintiffs is rejected
 under Order VII Rule 11 of the CPC on account of the same being
 barred under Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013. 68. Having found that the suit is not maintainable at this juncture as
 being barred by Section 430 of the Companies Act, 2013, this Court
 does not deem it apposite to delve into the remaining issues in relation
 to pecuniary jurisdiction or the dispute in the suit being manifestly
 commercial in nature, the same being academic in nature at this stage. 69. The present petition is allowed in the aforesaid terms. Pending
 applications stand disposed of. AMIT MAHAJAN, J

 DECEMBER 4, 2025/'KDK' Signature Not Verified Signed By:DEEPANSHU Signing Date:04.12.2025 C.R.P. 10/2025 Page 65 of 65 22:24:26