The Appellant, who is a sub-broker based in Ahmedabad

(Gujarat), has preferred the present appeal against the Impugned Order

dated December 14, 2012, hereinafter referred to as "Impugned Order",

passed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, hereinafter

referred to as "Respondent", under Section 15-I of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Rule 5 of the Securities

and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Inquiry by 2 Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalties by the Adjudicating Officer)

Rules, 1995. The Impugned Order seeks to impose a penalty of Rs.9 lac

under Section 15HA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,

1992 on the Appellant for the alleged violation of Regulations 4(1),

4(2)(a), (b), (e), (g) and (n) of the Securities and Exchange Board of

India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003, hereinafter referred to as "FUTP

Regulations". A further penalty of Rs.1 lac is sought to be imposed on

the Appellant by the same Impugned Order for the alleged violation of

clauses A(1), A(2), D(1), D(4) and D(5) of the Code of Conduct as

specified in Schedule II under Regulation 15 of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations,

1992 , 'hereinafter referred to as Broker Regulations.' 2. Brief facts leading up to the present case are that the Respondent

initiated an investigation in the scrip of M/s Adani Export Limited,

hereinafter referred to as "AEL", which is a public company and has

been mainly trading on the two exchanges, BSE and NSE. The

investigation appears to be in respect of examining the possibility of

violation of various provisions of the FUTP Regulations in respect of

their trading in the scrip during the period between July 9, 2004 to July

14, 2004 (first period) and August 8, 2005 to September 9, 2005 (second

period). It is stated that during the investigation, the said scrip witnessed

wide fluctuations in its price ranging from 481 to 756 during the first

period and from Rs.64.35 to Rs.74.20 during the second period. The role 3 of various brokers and their clients was scrutinized in respect of trading

in the scrip of AEL. It appears to be the case of the Respondent that

through collusion with brokers and clients, certain entities transacted in

the shares of AEL in a manner which led to the creation of artificial

volumes in the scrip and, consequently, the projection of a false market.

It led to a distorted market equilibrium which was responsible for a spurt

in the price of the scrip which did not have any co-relation with the

performance of the company. In this connection, the role of the

Appellant, a sub-broker was also investigated in respect of trading

undertaken by the Appellant at the instance of his client Shri Nitin R.

Patel. The Appellant was found to be guilty of violating the FUTP

Regulations as well as the Broker Regulations. A show-cause notice was

accordingly issued on June 28, 2008 as per the rules and the Appellant

submitted its reply to the said show cause notice denying all the

allegations against him. The Appellant sought certain additional

documents but did not file any supplementary detailed reply. 3. The case of the Appellant is that it is a small time sub-broker and

has acted only at the instance of and on behalf of its client, namely,

Shri Nitin R. Patel. The Appellant did not have any knowledge of the

alleged manipulative intention of said Shri Nitin R. Patel. It is further

submitted that the transactions in question were carried out by the

Appellant in the normal course of business strictly as per the instructions

of its client and on his behalf. In this context, it is argued by Shri

Deepak R. Shah, learned counsel for the Appellant, that there is 4 absolutely no evidence on record to suggest even remotely the

possibility that the Appellant had been part of any alleged design of his

client, namely, Shri Nitin R. Patel in connivance with others. 4. It is further argued on behalf of the Appellant that the

contentions/submissions raised by the Appellant at the time of enquiry

have not been considered, while being negatived and even ignored by

the Adjudicating Officer while passing the Impugned Order. Although,

it is alleged in the show-cause notice that there was reversal of trades

amounting to synchronization thereof, no details of such trades have

been placed on record or furnished to the Appellant so as to enable the

Appellant to effectively respond to the same. The Appellant has also

specifically contended in Paragraph 5.12 of the Appeal that there was

undue and unexplained delay on the part of the Respondent in

concluding the said enquiry which violates the principle of natural

justice. It is pointed out by the Appellant that initially an enquiry officer,

namely, Ms. M. S. Babita Rayadu, was appointed as the Adjudicating

Officer and replaced by one Mr. Sandeep Deore. All this happened

between July to November, 2007. Thereafter, a show-cause notice was

issued on June 28, 2008 to which the Appellant replied on August 1,

2009. The Appellant has also attended a couple of personal hearings and

on February 24, 2010, sought time to file another reply by March 26,

2010 in view of certain additional documents obtained by him from the

Adjudicating Officer. However, on scrutiny, it was found that none of

the documents pertained to the Appellant and as such he did not find it

necessary to prefer any other reply in addition to the one already filed on 5 August 1, 2009. The Appellant, therefore, submits that the Respondent

should have, thereafter, passed the final order within a reasonable time

but instead took more than 33 months to pass the Impugned Order

against the Appellant imposing the penalty in question. This inordinate

delay remains unexplained. 5. Learned counsel for the Appellant has submitted that the reliance

placed by the Adjudicating Officer, on the case of Ketan Parekh vs.

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appeal no. 2 of 2004) decided

on July 14, 2006 is totally misplaced. Similar is the contention of the

Appellant regarding the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the

case of Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Shriram Mutual

Fund and another (2006)5 SCC 361 reported in AIR 2006 SC 2287. In

this connection, it is pointed out by the learned counsel for the Appellant

that the penalty on the person who actually dealt in the shares in

question i.e. Shri Nitin R. Patel, was Rs.5 lac to begin with and the same

was reduced to Rs.2 lac by this Tribunal in Appeal no. 27 of 2012 dated

February 21, 2012. 6. Lastly, the Appellant submits that the Respondent has also failed

to take into consideration the factors stipulated in Section 15J of the

SEBI Act, before levying such a harsh penalty. 7. The present appeal was admitted on March 7, 2013 and the

Respondent was afforded an opportunity to file a reply-affidavit within 4

weeks. However, when the matter was taken up for final hearing on the

fixed date i.e. April 30, 2013, the Respondent made it clear that it did 6 not intend to file any reply-affidavit in the matter and as such the appeal

was heard, with the consent of the parties, on the basis of records made

available by the Appellant in its appeal and the oral submissions

advanced by both the parties on fact and applicable law in the matter.

The learned counsel for the Respondent, argued that the Appellant had

been found guilty of the provisions of the FUTP Regulations as well as

the Code of Conduct for Sub-Brokers. The Adjudicating Officer had

granted the Appellant reasonable opportunity of defending his case. The

Appellant availed of the said opportunity by filing a reply to the show-

cause notice as well as by personally attending the hearings scheduled

before the Adjudicating Officer. However, it is vehemently argued by

the Respondent that the Appellant failed to file a second reply for which

he sought time of 30 days or so from the Adjudicating Officer after

obtaining certain additional documents and hence the appeal deserves to

be dismissed. 8. Both the learned counsel for the parties have been heard at length

and the pleadings in the appeal and the documents annexed therewith

have been minutely perused. 9. Before analyzing the respective submissions of the parties on

merit, the relevant provisions of the FUTP Regulations and Broker

Regulations, alongwith other relevant provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992 are reproduced herein below for the sake of convenience: ... (g) entering into a transaction in securities without
 intention of performing it or without intention of change
 of ownership of such security." (n) circular transactions in respect of a security
 entered into between intermediaries in order to increase
 commission to provide a false appearance of trading in
 such security or to inflate, depress or cause fluctuations
 in the price of such security;." Similarly, Schedule II of the Code of Conduct for Sub-Brokers reads as

under: Sections 15HA , 15HB , 15I & 15J of SEBI Act, 1992 are also reproduced

herein below for the sake of convenience:- 15HB. Penalty for contravention where no separate
 penalty has been provided.- Whoever fails to comply with any provision of this Act,
 the rules or the regulations made or directions issued by
 the Board thereunder for which no separate penalty has
 been provided, shall be liable to a penalty which may
 extend to one crore rupees. 15-I Power to adjudicate- (1) For the purpose of
 adjudging under sections 15-A , 15-B , 15-C , 15-D , 15-E , 15-F , 15-G [,15-H, 15-HA and 15-HB], the Board shall
 appoint any officer not below the rank of a Division
 Chief to be an adjudicating officer for holding an
 inquiry in the prescribed manner after giving any person
 concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard for
 the purpose of imposing any penalty. (2) While holding an inquiry the adjudicating officer
 shall have power to summon and enforce the attendance
 of any person acquainted with the facts and
 circumstances of the case to give evidence or to produce
 any document which in the opinion of the adjudicating
 officer, may be useful for or relevant to the subject
 matter of the inquiry and if, on such inquiry, he is
 satisfied that the person has failed to comply with the
 provisions of any of the sections specified in sub-section
 (1), he may impose such penalty as he thinks fit in
 accordance with the provisions of any of those sections. Moreover, for 18,38,077 shares buy and sell order
 quantity and rate identical and placed within a time gap
 of 1 minute from each other. In case of 116 trades for
 2183102 shares the time gap between the buy and sell
 orders was between 0-10 seconds. The said client's
 contribution to the alleged manipulation is to the extent
 of 13,21,582 shares on buy side and 15,04,408 on the
 sell side. Similarly on NSE, for the same period the said
 client has allegedly entered into synchronized trades to
 the extent of 12,25,260 shares. 14. It is alleged that the said trades were synchronized as
 the buy and sell orders were placed within time gap of 1 12 minute with negligible or no price difference. Further,
 these trades have been reversed on the same day. These
 trades were allegedly done with a view to increase the
 price of the scrip and create artificial volumes and
 consequently create artificial demand in the scrip. It is
 further alleged that the Noticee, by executing the said
 trades on behalf of the said client, had aided and
 facilitated manipulation in the scrip. This allegation is
 substantiated by the fact that the said client was doing
 trading in huge volume and was reversing it on the same
 day. There has been negligible change in the beneficial
 ownership because of the trading done by the said client
 and the trading done by said client has only contributed
 to the increase in the price and volume of the scrip of
 AEL. The orders placed by the said client used to be
 identical in terms of price and quantity and used to be
 placed with negligible price difference. 15. In response of the said allegation of structured
 trades, the Noticee submitted that the said transactions
 were carried out by the client in normal course of
 business and there is nothing on record to show that the
 Noticee had knowledge of manipulative intention of the
 said client. Further, synchronized trading and reversal
 trading are not illegal per se." 12. Thus, a perusal of the above stated provisions of Regulation 4 and

its sub-regulations reveals that the allegation of fraud can be levelled

against a person/entity only for good reasons and on the basis of clear

and unambiguous evidence. Such an allegation of fraud may shake the

very foundation of the business of the entity in question and may

adversely affect the same. Therefore, the onerous task of proving such a

serious allegation lies on the person levelling such accusation on the

basis of preponderance of probability. A minute reading of the

Adjudicating Officer's Impugned Order dated December 14, 2012 does

not demonstrate the manner in which the Appellant's actions have led to

the creation of a false market and the basis on which the Appellant has 13 been condemned for the commission of fraud, that too in connivance

with others. No evidence has been brought on record to establish a

connection between the Appellant and the alleged fraudulent transactions

undertaken by Shri Nitin R. Patel. It is a matter of record that the alleged

default is the first and only aspersion cast on the Appellant with respect

to its business and, heretofore, has not had any of its acts called into

question by any authority, regulatory or otherwise. Moreover, it is

evident from the Impugned Order that the Appellant has enjoyed no

unfair advantage or benefit of any nature owing to the execution of the

trades in question, nor have the same resulted in any kind of loss

suffered by investors in the scrip of AEL. This is evident from the fact

that the Respondent has not received any complaint with respect to any

of the allegedly manipulative acts of the Appellant. 13. The Appellant, as is evident from the record, acted only as a sub-

broker, who is at a lower rung in the hierarchy of brokers, as above him

stand the broker and the stock exchange. We agree with the Appellant in

that it is an inconsequentially small market player earning a meager

amount every year and can in no way be placed at par with other

dominant entities executing numerous transactions in the securities

market on a regular basis. We further observe that the entire Impugned

Order seems to be based on mere presumptions. In paragraph 16 of the

Impugned Order, after relying upon Ketan Parekh's judgement of this

Tribunal, the Adjudicating Officer proceeds to observe as under:- It is observed that the trading done by the said
 client was huge and the Noticee should have been 14 alarmed by the trading being executed by the client.
 Even if the client was doing day trading, such pattern of
 trading still remains unexplained. The said client had
 entered the orders with precise timing, quantity and
 price. Such preciseness could not be achieved unless
 there is an understanding between the Noticee and the
 said client. The face that the said client has reversed his
 trading and has entered into self trades shows that the
 clients activities could not be considered to be normal
 by any prudent standard. Further, the Noticee has failed
 to submit any detailed submissions in response to SCN
 even after providing it with all the necessary materials
 and providing it adequate opportunities. 17. In view of the above observations, findings and
 material on record I conclude that the allegation of
 violation of Regulation 4 (1) and 4 (2) (a) , (b),(e),(g)
 and (n) of the PFUTP Regulations, 2003 by the Noticee
 is proved." The above said finding is, in our opinion, totally perverse in law since

no valid basis has been put forth through documentary evidence or

through witnesses to substantiate such deemed nexus of the Appellant

with the fraudulent acts of Shri Nitin R. Patel. All that can be inferred

from the above-stated findings of the Respondent is that the client, Shri

Nitin R. Patel, executed trades which were perfectly timed to cause

manipulation in the price of the scrip of AEL. How this particular action

of the client leads to the conclusion that the Appellant and Shri Nitin R.

Patel acted in collusion with each other to create a false market with

respect to the shares of AEL has, in our considered opinion, not been

demonstrated with any degree of clarity by the Adjudicating Officer in

the Impugned Order. 14. At this stage, we may revert to the reliance placed by the

Appellant on the case of Shri Nitin R. Patel, decided by this Tribunal on 15 February 21, 2012. In this matter, the Respondent investigated trades

executed in the scrip of AEL during the periods between July 9, 2004

and January 14, 2005 and between August 1, 2005 and September 5,

2005. These trades were executed by Shri Nitin R. Patel, through Ess

Ess Intermediaries, the Appellant in the instant case. The Respondent's

case was that Shri Nitin R. Patel had executed circular and reversal

trades thereby generating huge artificial volumes of shares leading to

manipulation in the price of the scrip of AEL. Being satisfied of his

guilt, the Respondent levied a penalty of Rs. 5 lac on Shri Nitin R. Patel.

Shri Nitin R. Patel, being aggrieved by the Respondent's order

approached this Tribunal denying the allegations of circular trading

while stating that several other entities had traded in the scrip of AEL

and the Respondent had passed orders against all these entities merely to

the tune of Rs.1 lac. This Tribunal, while holding that the facts regarding

self trading and circular trading stood established, decreased the penalty

levied on Shri Nitin R. Patel to Rs. 2 lac. It is pertinent to reproduce para

5 of the judgement delivered by Hon'ble Shri S.S.N. Moorthy:- 15. It is evident from the records that the Appellant acted solely on

the behest of its client, Shri Nitin R. Patel, while trading in the shares of

AEL. As stated above, while pronouncing its decision in the matter of

Nitin R. Patel, this Tribunal observed that the quantum of penalty levied

upon transgressors of the law under similar circumstances should be

commensurate with the gravity of the act which leads to deviation from

the provisions of law. Now, the fact of the matter is that Shri Nitin R.

Patel, along with other market operators which dealt in the scrip of AEL,

has been penalised to the extent of Rs. 2 lac, while the sub-broker

Appellant has been asked to pay a totally unwarranted penalty of Rs. 9

lac in the facts and circumstances of the case analysed in detail

hereinabove. In the opinion of this Tribunal, to a reasonable mind, the

facts of this matter speak for themselves. As pointed out earlier, no

evidence has been adduced to demonstrate any sort of collusion between 17 the Appellant and Shri Nitin R. Patel while dealing in the scrip of AEL,

with the intention to manipulate the price of the scrip. However, we do

believe that the Appellant as a sub-broker should have been more

vigilant while executing the trades in question. Even as a small-time

sub-broker, the Appellant has the task of remaining alert at all times

without taking its clients at face value. Unless the Appellant appreciates

this duty as its paramount obligation, clients such as Shri Nitin R. Patel

will keep trying to make profits at the expense of innocent investors

caught unawares in the unethical scheme of such clients in the capital

market and the Respondent, as a responsible Regulator, has rightly

called upon the Appellant to pay a nominal amount of Rs. 1 lac for this

inadvertence. Therefore, keeping the above said in mind, this Tribunal

is inclined to do away with the penalty of Rs. 9 lac imposed upon the

Appellant for the alleged violation of the FUTP Regulations, 2003 while

upholding that of Rs. 1 lac for the violation of the Code of Conduct as

specified in Schedule II under Regulation 15 of the Broker Regulations.

This appeal, to the aforesaid extent, stands partly allowed. No order as to

costs. Sd/- Jog Singh
 Member &
 Presiding Officer (Offg.)

19.06.2013
Pk