Rahul Jha @ Rahul Kumar Jha .... .... Petitioner(s)/Applicant(s)
 Versus
 The State of Jharkhand .... .... Opposite Party ---- CORAM: HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJESH KUMAR ---- For the Petitioner(s)/Applicant(s) : Mr. Sumit Prakash, Adv. 1. Heard learned counsel for the applicant and learned counsel for the State. 2. The applicant who is in custody since 30.05.2023, has approached this Court for
 grant of regular bail in connection with Jamua P.S. Case No.221 of 2023, corresponding
 to POCSO Case No.91 of 2023, registered for the offence under Section 363 / 366(A) of
 the Indian Penal Code & Sections 12 / 18 of the POCSO Act, pending in the court of
 learned Special Judge, POCSO Act, Giridih. 3. It has been submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant(s) that complete
 set of FIR along with its enclosure have been annexed with this bail application and
 there is no suppression on his/her part. 4. Innocence has been claimed by the learned counsel for the applicant and
 undertaking has been given for participation in the trial. It has been submitted that the
 entire allegation is false and frivolous and no offence under Section 366-A of the IPC is
 made out. It has further been submitted that Section 66-E of the Information Technology
 Act has wrongly been invoked. It is nothing but case of sextortion and the applicant is
 victim. The investigation is complete. On the above basis, prayer for bail has been made. 5. Learned counsel for the State has opposed the prayer for bail. 6. Considering the above facts, I am inclined to enlarge the applicant on bail.
 Accordingly, the applicant, named above, is directed to be released on bail, on furnishing
 bail bond of Rs.10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand Only) with two sureties of the like
 amount each to the satisfaction of the learned Special Judge, POCSO Act, Giridih in
 connection with Jamua P.S. Case No.221 of 2023, corresponding to POCSO Case No.91
 of 2023, subject to condition that the applicant(s) will submit self-attested
 photocopy/photocopies of his/her/their Aadhaar Card(s) and also submit his/her/their
 mobile number(s) before the learned court below which he/she/they will always keep
 active and will not change it during pendency of this case without prior permission of the
 court. (Rajesh Kumar, J.)
Raja/-