This may be the world’s smallest ‘cheers’ altogether: In less than 24 hours after TOI reported Chandrashekhar Bawankule, Minister for Maharashtra state excise, as saying that the Maharashtra government was in the “last stage of finalising” an online liquor delivery policy, Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis told another TOI reporter that “No such decision has been taken and neither will it be taken.”

However, the other TOI report stated that after this policy was announced, the excise department was “flooded with protests” from unknown entities as well as a doctor saying that this was a bad idea.

MediaNama spoke with an excise department official today who said that the policy was only in a draft stage, it was undergoing a discussion in the department, and not a law which had been passed.

State regulators in Karnataka at least are not keen on speaking with alcohol delivery or even concierge delivery services like Dunzo: “Why should we talk to [Dunzo]?” Rajendra Prasad, an excise official in Bangalore told MediaNama in September. In 2016, GetTalli had to shut down after the Chandigarh police ordered liquor online, and charged and arrested the startup’s two cofounders with criminal conspiracy, fraud, and a state law prohibiting “unlawful import, export, transport, manufacture, possession, etc”. GetTalli said that it procured liquor from government authorised vendors and delivered it to the user’s doorstep. Following this, Dunzo also shuttered delivering alcohol because of the noise made around online liquor delivery in Karnataka.

There is currently no regulation around the delivery of alcohol. It is important to note that every state usually formulates its own regulations, since this is an excise matter. However, despite this, there are multiple online liquor delivery services available across the country. It is unclear where these companies source their liquor from, and whether indeed they have a license to sell liquor.

*

Are you a liquor delivery company or a regulator? Tell us your views about this on: [email protected] . We may publish your responses with your permission .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event