+W.P.No.26769 of 2024
Between: 2. The Director General of Police, DGP Office, Mangalari, Guntur
 District. 3. The Superintendent of Police Palnadu District. 4. The Station House Officer, Inavolu Police Station, Palnadu District. 5. Sri Meesala Murali Krishna, S/o. Anjaneyulu, R/o. Thalariapalli
 Village, Nuzendla Mandal, Palnadu District. ... Respondents
Date of Judgment pronounced on : 18.12.2024

 HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE R. RAGHUNANDAN RAO
 AND
 HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE MAHESWARA RAO KUNCHEAM 1. Whether Reporters of Local newspapers : Yes/No
 May be allowed to see the judgments? 2. Whether the copies of judgment may be marked : Yes/No
 to Law Reporters/Journals: 3. Whether The Lordship wishes to see the fair copy : Yes/No
 Of the Judgment? RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 *IN THE HIGH COURT OF ANDHRA PRADESH AT AMARAVATI

 * HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE R. RAGHUNANDAN RAO

 AND

 * HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE MAHESWARA RAO KUNCHEAM +W.P.No.26769 of 2024 % Dated:18.12.2024

Between: ... Respondents

! Counsel for Petitioner : Sri S. Sriram, learned Senior
 Counsel representing Sri S.
 Dushyanth Reddy

^Counsel for Respondents : Learned Advocate General 3 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 <GIST : 6. 2010 SCC Online Raj 1217 (paras 2, 12, 19 to 27) 7. 2022 (9) SCC 321 8. AIR 1966 SC 816 (para 5) 9. (1972) 3 SCC 256 (paras 6 & 7) 10. (1952) 1 SCC 118 (paras 9 & 10) 11. (1994) 5 SCC 410 (para 48) 12. (2019) 5 SCC 266 (paras 17 to 20.1) 13. (1982) 2 SCC 463 (para-4) 14. 2005 124 DLT 602 (paras-8 & 9) 15. 2024 SCC ONLINE SC 1703 (Para 40) 16. (2024) 3 SCC 51 : 2023 SCC OnLine SC 934 at page 77 17. (2013) 1 SCC 314 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri) 475 : 2012 SCC OnLine SC 808 at page 324 18. 2023 SCC Online 1244 4 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 APHC0105209
92024
 IN THE HIGH COURT OF ANDHRA PRADESH
 AT AMARAVATI [3508]
 (Special Original Jurisdiction)

 WEDNESDAY, THE EIGHTEENTH DAY OF DECEMBER

 TWO THOUSAND AND TWENTY FOUR

 PRESENT

 THE HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE R RAGHUNANDAN RAO
 THE HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE MAHESWARA RAO KUNCHEAM

 WRIT PETITION NO: 26769/2024

Between: The State Of Andhra Pradesh and others...RESPONDENT(S)
Counsel for the Petitioner: However, the arguments in the bail application had already been completed

and consequently, the contention of the respondents that parallel proceedings

were pursued is not correct. b) Even otherwise, the writ petition would be maintainable even if

the bail application had been pursued. An application for bail, would only

result in the detenue being released to the custody of the sureties and that

overall custody of the court remains. An order of release, under a Writ of

Habeas Corpus, would release the detenue from the custody of every and any

authority. In the light of these vital differences, the mere application for bail, or 10 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 pressing the bail application, would not preclude the petitioner from filing a

Writ of Habeas Corpus. c) The learned Senior Counsel would rely upon Zahir Ahmad v.

Ganga Prasad, A.S.D.M., Ballia and Anr.,4 ; Wilfred Prakash vs. State of

Tamil Nadu, rep. by the Secretary to Government (Home), Fort St.

George, Chennai and Ors.,5; and Hridya Narayan Singh (Dr.) v. State of

Rajasthan &Anr.,6 . d) The remand order, produced along with the Memo dated

02.12.2024, records that the police had complied with the requirement to

serve the grounds of arrest, under Section 47 of BNSS, on the detenue. The

Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ),

had held that there is a vital distinction between the meaning of "grounds of

arrest" and "reasons for arrest". Mere supply of reasons for arrest would not

meet the requirement of serving "grounds of arrest". A perusal of the said

notice would clearly show that none of the grounds of arrest, required to be

set out, have been set out in the said notice. The said notice does not meet

the requirements set out by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Prabhir

Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ). A learned Single Judge of this Court,

in the order dated 28.10.2024, in Crl.P.No.6807 of 2024, had also held that

the basic grounds of arrest would have to be supplied in writing and that there 4 1962 SCC Online ALL 11 (paras 4, 13, 14 & 31) 5 2005 (3) CTC 540 (paras 11 and 13) 6 2010 SCC Online Raj 1217 (paras 2, 12, 19 to 27) 11 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 is no uniform practice, which is being followed by the investigating officers and

the same requires to be corrected. e) The judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Prabhir

Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), arose out of the PMLA Act . However,

the observations and the principles laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court,

in this case, would be applicable not only to the provisions of the PMLA Act but also to any remand, of a person, in relation to any offence under any

criminal law. The argument that the requirement of furnishing grounds of

arrest is statute specific to the PMLA Act is incorrect. Section 19 of the PMLA

Act, which requires furnishing of grounds of arrest, is similar to Section 47 of

the BNSS. Similarly, Section 45 of PMLA Act setting out the circumstances in

which bail can be given is similar to Sections 480 and 483 of BNSS and more

specifically, second proviso to Section 480 and first proviso to Section 483 of

BNSS. f) In Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court, in paragraphs 17, 18, 20, 22, 24, 25, 29 & 30, had held that

furnishing of grounds of arrest is mandatory and failure to furnish such

grounds of arrest would be fatal to the arrest of the detenue. The Hon‟ble

Supreme Court also held that this principle arises out of the provisions of Article 22 of the Constitution of India and the same cannot be waived. The

learned Senior Counsel would also draw the attention of this Court to

paragraph 49 of the same judgment, to explain the difference between the 12 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 reasons for arrest and grounds of arrest. He contends that the notice issued

under Section 47 , has neither reasons for arrest nor grounds of arrest and

consequently the arrest itself is illegal and subsequent order of remand etc., is

also illegal. g) The Magistrate, in the remand order, has mechanically held that

the provisions of law set out in the FIR, as amended by Memos, are applicable

to the facts of the case. The Magistrate did not consider the fact that Section

111 of BNSS would be applicable only when, in the previous 10 years, a

competent court had taken cognizance of at least two charge sheets, that

have been filed against the accused person and in the absence of such

charge sheets, no case under Section 111 of BNSS can be made out.

Similarly, Section 308 (5) of BNSS, was not available in the original complaint.

Sections 111, 336(4) and 342 of BNS were added on 06.11.2024 while

Section 308(5) was added on 08.11.2024, by way of a Memo, without setting

out any reasons in the said Memo as to why these provisions were being

added. These additions are obviously to create a ground for arresting the

detenue, though no such cause is available. h). Written submissions have also been filed, reiterating the above

submissions. 17. Arguments of Advocate General: RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 By then, an application for bail, before the trial court, had already been filed.In

the course of the hearing of this writ petition, on 20.11.2024, this aspect was

pointed out by the respondents. The learned counsel, for the petitioner, had

stated that they would not press the bail application. However, the bail

application was argued on 21.11.2024 and came to be dismissed. In view of

these facts, the petitioner cannot continue to maintain the present writ petition

and it requires to be dismissed on this short ground. b) The petitioner has now filed an additional affidavit, stating that the

bail application was argued on 20.11.2024, itself, and the counsel in the trial

court could not be informed in time. This statement of fact is incorrect as the

application was actually argued on 21.11.2024. Even if the petitioner‟s

statement that the bail application was argued on 20.11.2024 is accepted,

nothing prevented the petitioner to inform the trial Court and file a Memo

stating that the bail application was not being pressed. c) The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in Jagjeet Singh & Ors., vs.

Ashish Mishra alias Monu & Anr.,7, had held that the presence of the victim,

is necessary, at all stages of proceedings before the Court. In the present

case, the petitioner, having impleaded the complainant / victim in the writ

petition, has effectively given up the victim as a party to the writ petition. In

such circumstances, the petitioner cannot raise any grounds on the question

of the applicability of provisions of law, including Sections 111 and 308 (5) of 7 2022 (9) SCC 321 14 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 BNSS and all such issues will not be gone into as the victim is not available to

defend his case d) A composite writ petition of Habeas Corpus and challenge of

judicial order of remand is not maintainable in as much as the judicial order of

remand can be challenged only by way of initiation of statutory proceedings. e) The Hon‟ble Supreme Court had held that an order of remand, by

the magistrate, is a judicial order and can be challenged, only by way of the

remedies available under the Statute, and not by way of a Writ of Habeas

Corpus. f) Judicial review, in a Writ of Habeas Corpus, can, at best, only take

into account the fact situation as on the date of initiation, of the writ. In the

present case, the writ petition was initiated on 19.11.2024. By then, the

detenue had been remanded, by a valid order of remand, by a competent

Magistrate. The proceedings prior to the order of remand cannot be looked

into by this Court in view of the judgments in A.K. Gopalan v. Government of

India8 ; Col. B. Ramachandra Rao (Dr) v. State of Orissa and Ors. , 9; Naranjan Singh Nathawan v. State of Punjab10 ; Sanjay Dutt v. State through CBI, Bombay11; and Serious Fraud Investigation Office v. Rahul

Modi and Anr.,12 . 8 AIR 1966 SC 816 (para 5) 9 (1972) 3 SCC 256 (paras 6 & 7) 10 (1952) 1 SCC 118 (paras 9 & 10) 11 (1994) 5 SCC 410 (para 48) 12 (2019) 5 SCC 266 (paras 17 to 20.1) 15 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 g) The contention of the petitioner, that the grounds of arrest had not

been supplied to the detenue, is incorrect. The petitioner, who has deposed to

the affidavit, is a third party who cannot speak of the proceedings in the court.

The petitioner could have obtained the affidavit of the detenue regarding this

issue. In any event, the order of remand, dated 08.11.2024, recorded the

satisfaction of the Magistrate that there was compliance of service of notice

under Section 47 of BNSS, service of grounds of arrest on the accused and

the offer of legal aid, which was declined by the detenue. h) The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in State of Maharashtra vs.

Ramdas Shrinivas Nayak and Anr.,13 and the Hon‟ble High Court at Delhi in Vinod Kumar Gupta vs. Commissioner of Customs14 had held that the

record of the Court, setting out the events which had occurred in the Court,

cannot be disputed and the same would be accepted as true and correct. The

Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in State of Maharashtra vs. Ramdas Shrinivas

Nayak and Anr. , had left open an avenue for correcting any record of facts,

which is not accepted by a party, by filing an affidavit and getting the very

same Court to correct the record. No such affidavit has been filed and

consequently, recording of the satisfaction of the Magistrate, that the grounds

of arrest had been served on the detenue, cannot be denied or disputed.

Consequently, the entire writ would have to fail. 13 (1982) 2 SCC 463 (para-4) 14 2005 124 DLT 602 (paras-8 & 9) 16 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 i) The judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in Prabhir

Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), came to be passed in relation to the

provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act , and the same would

not be applicable to the provisions of the BNSS. This ratio can be seen from

the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme court, in Arvind Kejriwal vs. Directorate

of Enforcement15 . j) The provisions of Section 47 of BNSS only requires the arresting

officer, to set out the provisions of law under which the case has been

registered against the accused as that would be sufficient knowledge for the

accused to oppose remand. No further grounds would be necessary. Even

otherwise, grounds of arrest had been served on the detenue, and the same

had been recorded by the Magistrate. In such circumstances, this Court would

not go beyond the recording of such satisfaction. k) Apart from this, Article 22 of the Constitution requires the furnishing

of grounds of arrest, "as soon as may be". This requirement was complied

with by furnishing the grounds of arrest in the remand report served on the

detenue, at the time when he was produced before the magistrate. l) Written submissions, on behalf of the 6th respondent, have also been

filed. 15 2024 SCC ONLINE SC 1703 (Para 40) 17 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 Consideration of the Court: 18. The above facts and contentions raise the following issues,

before this Court: 19. Before going into the above issues, certain contentions raised in

the written submissions, on behalf of the 6th respondent require to be

addressed. 20. In the written arguments filed on behalf of the 6th respondent,

additional grounds on procedural violations have been raised. The order of

remand, dated 08.11.2024, was challenged in the writ petition, on the ground

of non application of mind, even without filing the remand order.

Consequently, the writ petition is not maintainable, as the said allegation has 18 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 been made even without looking at the remand order. A composite writ,

challenging an order of remand by a competent judicial Magistrate is not

maintainable and can not to be entertained by this Court; the facts stated in

the affidavit cannot be accepted as the petitioner did not disclose the source

of his information. The learned counsel for the petitioner having orally

submitted that the writ would be withdrawn against the victim has only filed a

Memo stating that the victim is only a proforma respondent and no relief is

sought against him. A writ ought to have been supported by an affidavit of the

detenue himself as he would be available for signing the affidavit and a third

party affidavit should not have been relied upon; the remand order, notices

under Section 47 and 48 of BNSS etc., have not been filed along with the

affidavit and had been presented before this Court along with a Memo which

is not permissible and the Court cannot look into these documents. 21. All the aforesaid submissions, on the grounds of procedural

violations, would not affect the maintainability of the writ petition. Firstly, the

respondents themselves have handed over the order of remand as well as the

notices issued under Section 47 & 48 of BNSS. When there is no dispute as to

the record produced by the petitioner, the discretion to accept such

documents and the mode of production is with the Court. This Court, in view of

the fact that there is no dispute as to the contents of the documents, has

permitted the said documents to be placed before the Court. In fact,

arguments were advanced on these documents by both sides. In such 19 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 circumstances, raising objections on the method of submission of documents,

at this stage, is impermissible. 22. The contention of the respondents, that a composite writ is not

maintainable, is incorrect. In fact, a composite writ has to be filed where an

order of remand is available. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in V. Senthil Balaji

v. State16 ,while considering this very issue had held as follows: 23. Apart from these reasons, the aforesaid objections are not

accepted by this Court, on the wholesome principle that procedural law is but

a hand maiden of substantive justice and such procedural lapses cannot be

raised for the purpose of denying a substantive consideration of the issues

before this Court. 24. It would also be necessary, to place on record, that this Court is

not going into the merits of the allegations made in the complaint or the

remand report. This Court, is testing the arrest of the detenue and his

subsequent remand to judicial custody on two grounds. Firstly, whether the

arrest of the detenue has been vitiated by non-service of grounds of arrest

and whether the order of remand, has been passed mechanically and without

application of mind. RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 ISSUE NO.1: 25. The contentions of the learned Advocate General can be split up

in the following manner. a) The scope of the writ petition would have to be restricted to

looking at the fact situation as at the time of the filing of the writ petition. This

would mean that only the situation, as on 19.11.2024 onwards, can be looked

into. b) By 19.11.2024, the detenue had been remanded to judicial

custody, by order of remand, passed by a competent Magistrate. Once an

order of remand is in place, a Writ of Habeas Corpus is not permissible and

liberty of the person, remanded to judicial custody, can be pursued only by

invoking the statutory remedies available under law. c) The order of remand, recorded that the grounds of arrest, as well

as the provisions of law, under which the case had been instituted, had been

served upon the detenue. Once, this finding is given, it would not be open to

the petitioner, to contend that grounds of arrest have not been supplied and

consequently, the writ petition would have to be dismissed as being non-

maintainable. d) The petitioner/detenue having filed an application for bail on

14.11.2024, and having pursued the bail till it was dismissed on 21.11.2024,

cannot file or maintain a writ petition. RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 26. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in A.K. Gopalan v. Government of

India ; Col. B. Ramachandra Rao (Dr) v. State of Orissa and Ors. ,;

NaranjanSingh Nathawan v. State of Punjab; Sanjay Dutt v. State through CBI, Bombay; and Serious Fraud Investigation Office v. Rahul

Modi and Anr. , had held that, a Constitutional Court, testing the validity of the

detention / judicial remand of any person, should consider the fact situation

only from the date of initiation of the writ petition. 27. This proposition, enunciated by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in all

the aforesaid judgments is binding on this Court. 28. In the case of State of Maharashtra vs. Ramdas Shrinivas , a

submission was made before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, that a concession

recorded by the Hon‟ble High Court of Bombay, had not been made and had

been wrongly recorded. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court declined to go into this

submission and held, in Paragraph 4, that - 29. After so observing, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court also held that no

submission to the contrary is permissible, unless an affidavit is filed before the 23 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 Judge, who recorded the facts, and necessary corrections to the record is

made by the Judge himself. There can be no quarrel when this proposition, as

the same has been laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. However, these

observations relate to the facts which happen in Court only. This proposition

cannot be extended to bar a challenge to all the facts that may be recorded by

the Judge. In fact, in Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court, considered the challenge to the facts recorded in the

remand report. The satisfaction of the magistrate, recorded in the remand

order, about service of grounds of arrest, which is said to have been done

prior to the production of the detenue, before the magistrate, can be gone

into. 30. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in Manubhai Ratilal Patel v. State

of Gujarat,17 ,had held that, once an order of remand is passed by a

Magistrate, the same would be a judicial order, under the relevant provision of

criminal law, ( Section 167 Cr.P.C., Section 47 of BNSS). The said ratio set out

by the Hon‟ble Supreme court in the aforesaid judgments can be safely

summarized in the following manner: 31. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, on this basis, had held, in Col. B.

Ramachandra Rao (Dr) v. State of Orissa and Ors. ,; Sanjay Dutt v. State through CBI, Bombay; Serious Fraud Investigation Office v. Rahul Modi

and Anr. , that once a judicial order, such as an order of remand, has been

passed, a Writ of Habeas Corpus, is barred and the remedy of seeking the

liberty of the remanded person, is only by way of the statutory remedies of

bail, quashing of the case itself, etc., except in exceptional circumstances. 32. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, has also taken the view that a Writ

of Habeas Corpus would not be barred merely because an order of remand

has been passed by a Magistrate. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in Gautam

Navlakha vs. National Investigation Agency , following earlier precedents,

had held that ordinarily a Writ of Habeas Corpus would not be maintainable if

an order of remand has already been passed. However, a Writ of Habeas 25 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 Corpus would still be maintainable, if the order of the Magistrate has been

passed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind. The following

observations of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in the case of Gautam Navlakha

vs. National Investigation Agency , extracted below are instructive. 77. However, the Court also held as follows : (emphasis supplied) 78. One of us (U.U. Lalit, J.) speaking for a Bench of
 two, followed the aforesaid line of thought in the decision
 of Serious Fraud Investigation Office v. Rahul
 Modi [Serious Fraud Investigation Office v. Rahul Modi, 26 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 (2019) 5 SCC 266 : (2019) 2 SCC (Cri) 516] and held as
 follows : (SCC p. 289, para 21)
 "21. The act of directing remand of an accused is thus
 held to be a judicial function and the challenge to the order
 of remand is not to be entertained in a habeas corpus
 petition." 79. We may also notice para 19 from the same
 judgment : ( Rahul Modi case [ Serious Fraud Investigation
 Office v. Rahul Modi , (2019) 5 SCC 266 : (2019) 2 SCC
 (Cri) 516] , SCC p. 285)
 "19. The law is thus clear that „in habeas corpus
 proceedings a court is to have regard to the legality or
 otherwise of the detention at the time of the return and not
 with reference to the institution of the proceedings‟." 80. Thus, we would hold as follows: If the remand is
 absolutely illegal or the remand is afflicted with the vice of
 lack of jurisdiction, a habeas corpus petition would indeed
 lie. Equally, if an order of remand is passed in an
 absolutely mechanical manner, the person affected can
 seek the remedy of habeas corpus. Barring such
 situations, a habeas corpus petition will not lie. 33. The respondents contend that the petitioner, after having assured

this Court, through his counsel, on 20.11.2024, that he would not be pursuing

the bail application, had pressed the application on 21.11.2024 and the same

was dismissed. The petitioner, on the other hand, contends that the

arguments in the bail petition were completed on 20.11.2024 itself and orders

were passed on 21.11.2024. In support of this contention, the petitioner has

produced the daily status of the Court of the XIII Additional District Judge, 27 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 Narasaraopet. The endorsement, dated 20.112.024, states that both sides

had been heard and to call the matter on 21.11.2024 for orders. This record

shows that hearing of the bail application was completed on 20.11.2024 itself. 34. The learned Advocate General had also raised the contention that

the detenue having availed of the right to apply for bail and having lost the

said bail application, cannot be permitted to invoke the remedy under Article

226 of the Constitution of India. The petitioner has relied upon Zahir Ahmad

v. Ganga Prasad, A.S.D.M., Ballia and Anr. ,; Wilfred Prakash vs. State of

Tamil Nadu, rep. by the Secretary to Government (Home), Fort St.

George, Chennai and Ors.,; and Hridya Narayan Singh (Dr.) v. State of

Rajasthan &Anr. , to contend that a Writ of Habeas Corpus was still

maintainable even after an application for bail had been moved. The

judgments in Zahir Ahmad v. Ganga Prasad, A.S.D.M., Ballia and Anr. ,;

and Hridya Narayan Singh (Dr.) v. State of Rajasthan &Anr. , have

enunciated the principle that a writ of habeas corpus would be maintainable

even if a bail petition has been filed. The relevant extracts are as follows: Therefore, we do not find any force in the preliminary
 objection of maintainability of these writ petitions raised by
 learned Government Advocate. 37. We are in respectful agreement with the above observations and

hold that a writ of habeas corpus can be filed even after invoking the remedy

of bail, if there is a challenge that the arrest and continued incarceration of the

person under arrest was illegal. 38. For the purpose of testing the maintainability of the writ petition,

this Court is now required to test whether the order of remand passed by the

Magistrate was passed in a mechanical manner, without application of mind. 39. Sri S. Sriram, learned Senior Counsel, contended that the order

of remand was passed in a mechanical manner, in as much as the learned

Magistrate did not consider the question of whether Section 111 of BNS would 29 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 be applicable and whether grounds of arrest have been served on the

detenue. 40. The order of remand reads as follows: Accused intimated about his right of having free legal aid for
 which accused reported that he is having means to engage
 a counsel of his own choice. Police complied Section 47 BNSS, i.e., he intimated about the grounds of arrest and his
 arrest is also intimated to his family members. He is
 examined by a registered medical practitioner. Perused the remand report, FIR, and case record
 and upon such perusal, it is revealed that the FIR was
 initially for the offences punishable under Sections U/s
 61(2), 111, 196, 336(4), 340(2), 352, 353(2), 308(5) BNS & Sec. 67 IT Act later investigating agency upon the perusal
 of entire record this court satisfied with reasons assigned by
 the investigation officer. Prima-facie case is found against
 the accused for the offences U/s 61(2), 111, 196, 336(4),
 340(2), 352, 353(2), 308(5) BNS & Sec. 67 IT Act. Hence
 the accused is remanded to judicial custody till 21.11.2024. Judicial Magistrate of I Class
 Vinukonda. RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 41. In this order, the Magistrate stated that the grounds of arrest have

been intimated, by virtue of compliance with Section 47 of BNSS, i.e., the

notice under Section 47 also intimates the grounds of arrest. 42. Notice under Section 47 of BNSS, supplied to the detenue, has

been produced before this Court, which reads as follows: Name of the Accused: 43. The learned Advocate General contends that once the Magistrate

has recorded his satisfaction that the grounds of arrest have been served on

the detenue, the said satisfaction cannot be challenged by way of an affidavit

or submissions made across the bar. This contention has already been

rejected. The satisfaction of the Magistrate, in the remand order, is recorded

as follows: 44. The Magistrate is recording the submission of the investigating

officer that he had intimated the grounds of arrest to the detenue and the

intimation of arrest to the family of the detenue.These observations are not a

record of the proceedings of the court, but a recording of the submissions of

the investigating officer. As such, there is no bar against going into these

facts. 45. It is not clear whether the grounds of arrest were intimated orally or

in writing. In view of the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Prabhir

Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), the grounds have to be served in

writing to the detenue. Paragraph 13 of the counter affidavit filed on behalf of

the 6th respondent, merely states that the grounds of arrest have been

supplied by way of remand application. It is not the case of the respondent,

that they have supplied grounds of arrest, apart from the notice under Section

47 & 48 BNSS, to the detenue. The only grounds of arrest, if any, supplied to

the detenue, are said to be the grounds set out in the remand report. 46. To sum up, it is obvious that the Magistrate was not referring to

the remand report, as the document containing the grounds of arrest, which

had been served on the detenue. A perusal of the notice under Section 47 ,

served on the detenue, as extracted above, does not contain any grounds of 32 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 arrest. There is no application of mind here nor has the magistrate verified,

whether the Grounds of arrest, in writing, have been served on the detenue. 47. The relevant part of Section 111 of BNS reads as follows: Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section,- (i) "organized crime syndicate" means a group of two
 or more persons who, acting either singly or jointly, as a
 syndicate or gang indulge in any continuing unlawful
 activity; (ii) "continuing unlawful activity" means an activity
 prohibited by law which is a cognizable offence punishable
 with imprisonment of three years or more, undertaken by
 any person, either singly or jointly, as a member of an
 organized crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate in
 respect of which more than one charge-sheets have been
 filed before a competent Court within the preceding period
 of ten years and that Court has taken cognizance of such
 offence, and includes economic offence; RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 (iii) "economic offence" includes criminal breach of
 trust, forgery, counterfeiting of currency-notes, bank-notes
 and Government stamps, hawala transaction, mass-
 marketing fraud or running any scheme to defraud several
 persons or doing any act in any manner with a view to
 defraud any bank or financial institution or any other
 institution or organization for obtaining monetary benefits in
 any form. 2. xxxx 48. This provision, on a plain reading, would be applicable only when,

a competent court has taken cognizance of at least two charge sheets, filed

against the person, accused of an offence under Section 111, within the last

10 years prior to the registration of an offence under Section 111. The remand

report, filed by the investigating officer does not contain even a whisper of

commission of any such offence by the detenue nor is there any mention of

any charge sheet filed against the detenue in the last 10 years. On the face of

the record, no case is made out under Section 111 of BNS. The satisfaction of

the Magistrate, contained in the remand order, that an offence under Section

111 is made out is clearly a statement made without application of mind and in

a mechanical manner. The contention that an order of remand need not

contain elaborate reasons does not in any manner help the respondents in

this case. The satisfaction recorded by the magistrate, as to the applicability

of Section111, is clearly flawed, on the face of the order, and such satisfaction

has been recorded without application of mind. 34 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 49. In view of the aforesaid two lacunae in the order of remand,

passed by the Magistrate, it would have to be held that the order has been

passed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind and

consequently a Writ of Habeas Corpus would be maintainable. 50. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Jagjeet Singh & Ors., vs. Ashish

Mishra alias Monu & Anr, had held that even the victim has a right to be

informed, at every stage of the criminal process. The learned Advocate

General contended that in view of this judgment, the petitioner could not have

withdrawn the writ petition against the victim especially after impleading him

as a party to the writ petition. 51. In this case, the accused is said to have caused the death of four

farmers, one journalist, a driver of a vehicle and two others, on account of his

deliberately driving a vehicle into a crowd. The accused moved an application

for bail before the High Court and the same was granted. Aggrieved by the

said grant of bail, some of the victims, who were injured, had approached the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court. One of the contentions raised by the appellants, was

that, their counsel was not heard, at the time of grant of bail, as the counsel

was disconnected in the course of an online hearing. Subsequently, the

Hon‟ble High Court is said to have not considered an application for rejecting

of the bail application. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court while considering this

objection had reviewed the development of law, regarding the victim‟s right to

be heard and had held as follows: 52. These observations which are binding precedent, set down by

the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, affords a right to the victim to intervene at any

stage. The ratio laid down by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, does not require the

accused to include the victim, as a respondent, while moving for bail, except in

cases under special Acts like the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes

(Prevention of Atrocities ) Act 1989. However, a victim can always intervene,

by approaching the Court hearing the bail application. Apart from this, the 36 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 petition moved before this Court, is in relation to the question of whether the

arrest and remand of the detenue, is illegal or has been done after due

compliance of all the requirements of law. The scope of the writ petition before

this Court is only to that extent. The question, whether the facts alleged in the

remand report or in the complaint are made out or not, is beyond the scope of

this writ petition. The controversy, in the present writ petition, would have to be

determined on the basis of the actions of the investigating officer, who

arrested the detenue. In the circumstances, the presence or otherwise of the

accused is not mandatory. 53. These facts make it amply clear that there was no direction by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court that a victim has to be made party to every application

moved by the accused. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court had only empowered the

victims to approach the Court if they feel the necessity to implead themselves

and resist any application moved by the accused. Making the victim a

proforma party would not be fatal to the maintainability of the writ petition. 54. The allegation, in the remand report, would enable the

investigating officer, to include Section 308(5) of BNS. However, the

probability and veracity of such allegations would have to be considered by

the Magistrate while considering the application for bail or in any subsequent

proceedings. It would not be appropriate for this Court to go into such issues,

in a writ petition, under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. Though, this

Court has held that the Magistrate had accepted the application of 37 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 Section 111 BNS in a mechanical way and that the Magistrate had accepted

the submission of the investigating officer that the grounds of arrest had been

served on the detenue in a mechanical way, the question of whether the

grounds of arrest, have been served, in any other manner, would still have to

be looked into. ISSUE No.2: 55. This issue requires to be decided in two stages. The first stage

requires a decision on the question of whether the directions of the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court in PrabhirPurkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi) would be

applicable only in cases of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) or Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA) or whether it would apply to

all criminal proceedings. 56. The requirement of furnishing grounds of arrest, under the

provisions of PMLA came to be considered by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India18 . In this case, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court,

noticed that, a person arrested under the provisions of PMLA can be granted

bail only when he can make out a case that the ingredients of the offence,

alleged against him, in the complaint or the remand report, will still not bring

home the offence alleged, on a prima facie basis. The Hon‟ble Supreme

Court, taking this requirement, under the PMLA Act , into account, had held

that an accused person, who has been arrested under PMLA,would have to 18 2023 SCC Online 1244 38 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 be given the grounds on which he was arrested, so that he would have an

opportunity, to make out his case under Section 19 of the PMLA. 57. In Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), the detenue

had been arrested under the provisions of UAPA read with certain provisions

of the Indian Penal Code . This arrest and subsequent remand were

challenged,by way of a Writ of Habeas Corpus, on the ground that the

grounds of arrest had not been informed to the detenue either orally or in

writing, and the same was in gross violation of the constitutional mandate

under Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. The detenue also relied upon

the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Pankaj Bansal v. Union of

India , to contend that the principles laid down in Pankaj Bansal v. Union of

India would be applicable to his case also as the relevant provisions of PMLA

arein para materia with the provisions of UAPA. This ground was resisted by

the State. The State also contended that Articles 22(1) & 22(5) of the

Constitution of India did not require the grounds of arrest or detention, in

writing , to be served on the arrested/detained person and such a condition

cannot be complied. 58. The Hon‟ble Supreme Court, after noticing the relevant extracts of

the Judgment in Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India and the relevant provisions

of PMLA and UAPA had held that the principles set out in Pankaj Bansal v.

Union of India would be applicable to a case under UAPA. 39 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 59. Apart from this, the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, had held that the

right of an arrested person, to be informed of the grounds of his arrest, in

writing, is also traceable to Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India and

consequently, the right of an accused person to be informed, in writing of the

grounds of his arrest, would be applicable to any criminal process. 60. The relevant extracts are 17, 18, 19, 20,21, 29, 30 & 31, which

read as follows: 593, para 7) 41 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 "7. The life and liberty of an individual is so
 sacrosanct that it cannot be allowed to be
 interfered with except under the authority of law. It
 is a principle which has been recognised and
 applied in all civilised countries. In our Constitution Article 21 guarantees protection of life and
 personal liberty not only to citizens of India but also
 to aliens." Thus, any attempt to violate such fundamental right,
guaranteed by Articles 20 , 21 and 22 of the Constitution of
India, would have to be dealt with strictly. 21. The right to be informed about the grounds of arrest
flows from Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India and any
infringement of this fundamental right would vitiate the
process of arrest and remand. Mere fact that a charge-
sheet has been filed in the matter, would not validate the
illegality and the unconstitutionality committed at the time of
arresting the accused and the grant of initial police custody
remand to the accused. 28. The language used in Article 22(1) and Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India regarding the communication of
the grounds is exactly the identical. Neither of the
constitutional provisions require that the "grounds" of
"arrest" or "detention", as the case may be, must be
communicated in writing. Thus, interpretation to this
important facet of the fundamental right as made by the
Constitution Bench while examining the scope of Article
22(5) of the Constitution of India would ipso facto apply to Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India insofar as the
requirement to communicate the grounds of arrest is
concerned. RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 29. Hence, we have no hesitation in reiterating that the
 requirement to communicate the grounds of arrest or the
 grounds of detention in writing to a person arrested in
 connection with an offence or a person placed under
 preventive detention as provided under Articles 22(1) and 22(5) of the Constitution of India is sacrosanct and cannot
 be breached under any situation. Non-compliance of this
 constitutional requirement and statutory mandate would
 lead to the custody or the detention being rendered illegal,
 as the case may be. 30. Furthermore, the provisions of Article 22(1) have
 already been interpreted by this Court in Pankaj Bansal
 [Pankaj Bansal v. Union of India , (2024) 7 SCC 576] laying
 down beyond the pale of doubt that the grounds of arrest
 must be communicated in writing to the person arrested of
 an offence at the earliest. Hence, the fervent plea of the
 learned ASG that there was no requirement under law to
 communicate the grounds of arrest in writing to the
 appellant-accused is noted to be rejected. 61. In view of the aforesaid authoritative pronouncement by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court, it must be held that the judgment of the Hon‟ble

Supreme court in Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) is

applicable to all cases of arrest, under any criminal proceeding. Consequently,

any arrest of a person, without serving, the grounds of arrest, in writing, on the

arrested person would render the arrest illegal. An order of remand, passed in

a mechanical manner, without ascertaining whether the grounds of arrest, in

writing, have been served on the detenueor not, would invalidate the order of

remand also. RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 62. The learned Advocate General, while contending that the

satisfaction of the Magistrate, recording that the grounds of arrest have been

served on the detenue, cannot be looked into, has also contended that even

otherwise, the grounds of arrest are available in the remand report and there

is no dispute that the said remand report has been furnished to the detenue. 63. The learned Advocate General would draw the attention of this

Court to the language in Section 47 of BNSS and Article 22(1) of the

Constitution, which reads as follows: (2) Where a police officer arrests without warrant any
 person other than a personaccused of a non-bailable
 offence, he shall inform the person arrested that he is
 entitled tobe released on bail and that he may arrange for
 sureties on his behalf. Article 22(1) of the Constitution 22. Protection against arrest and detention in certain
 cases: RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 (2)Every person who is arrested and detained in
 custody shall be produced before the nearest magistrate
 within a period of twenty-four hours of such arrest
 excluding the time necessary for the journey from the
 place of arrest to the court of the magistrate and no such
 person shall be detained in custody beyond the said period
 without the authority of a magistrate. 64. The learned Advocate General would contend that Section 47 , is

in the alternative. He would contend that the requirement of Section 47 is

fulfilled when the officer arresting the accused, either furnishes the provisions

of law, which are set out against him in the complaint or in the alternative

furnishes other grounds of arrest. The learned Advocate General would

contend that compliance of either requirement is sufficient compliance of Section 47 BNSS. He would submit that the language in Section 47 requires

such provisions of law or other grounds of arrest being furnished at the time of

arrest.A consideration of the aforesaid interpretation of section 47 of BNSS,

may not be necessary, in view of the ratio of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, in Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ), that the requirement of

supplying the grounds of Arrest, to an arrested person, is a constitutional

requirement, under Article 22 of the Constitution, from which there cannot be

any derogation. 65. The learned Advocate General submits that as far as Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India is concerned, the said provision mandates that

grounds of arrest should be intimated "as soon as possible". He would submit 45 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 that the said language of Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India does not

provide for furnishing of grounds of arrest at the time of arrest and gives some

leeway for furnishing grounds of arrest at a subsequent stage as long as the

grounds of arrest are supplied to the arrested person, at least within 24 hours.

He would submit that, this requirement is complied, in the present case, as the

grounds of arrest are available in the remand report and have been served on

the detenue by the time he was produced in the Court. 66. It is contended by the learned Advocate General, that though the

notice, under Section 47 ,may not have set out the grounds of arrest, the

remand report served on the detenue contains the grounds of arrest and the

same meets the requirement of the standard set out in Prabhir Purkayastha

vs. State (NCT of Delhi ). For this purpose, the learned Advocate General

relies upon the following paragraph in Prabhir Purkayastha vs. State (NCT

of Delhi ): 2023 which vitiates the arrest and subsequent remand of
 the appellant. 67. Learned Advocate General would contend that the aforesaid

passage indicates that the requirement of serving grounds of arrest would be 46 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 satisfied, if the grounds of arrest are placed in the remand report and served

on the detenue. He relies upon the aforesaid observations of the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court as well as an unreported judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court

at Madras, dated 01.10.2024, in W.P.No.17007 of 2024, in the case of Ahmed

Mansoor and Ors., vs. State, rep. by Assistant Commissioner of Police

Cyber Crime Branch and Anr. 68. In the case, in the judgment of the Hon‟ble High Court at Madras,

the person arrested in that case, had not been served with the grounds of

arrest, until they were set out in the remand report and served on the arrested

person. A Division Bench of the Hon‟ble High Court at Madras, had held that

such service of grounds of arrest, in the remand report, would be in

accordance with the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Prabhir

Purkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi ). 69. Though there is an issue as to whether, the grounds of arrest are

required, under Article 22 of the Constitution, to be served, in writing, at the

time of arrest or can be supplied „as soon as possible‟, the same would not

arise in this case, in view of the above observation of the Hon‟ble Supreme

court. The aforesaid observation indicates, that such grounds of arrest can be

contained in the remand application and can be served on the arrested

person. Since, the application, for remand, would have to be moved, within 24

hours of arrest, such a course of action appears to have been accepted by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court and would have to be followed by this court. In the 47 RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 present case, it is an admitted fact, on both sides, that the remand report had

been served on the detenue before the remand order was passed by the

Magistrate. 70. The further question left to be answered by this Court is whether

the remand application contains, the grounds of arrest, as required by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court. In PrabhirPurkayastha vs. State (NCT of Delhi) the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court reiterated the principle that the phrase "reason for

arrest" and the phrase "grounds of arrest" have a significant difference, in the

following manner: would invariably be personal to the accused and cannot be
 equated with the "reasons of arrest" which are general in
 nature. 71. The requirement, set out in the above judgment of the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court, regarding "Grounds of Arrest" is that the arrested person

should be informed of the case against him, to enable him to prepare his

defence and also for seeking bail or to oppose custodial remand. A formal

heading of "Grounds of Defence" may not be necessary as long as the

necessary details are set out. In the present case, the remand report sets out

the case against the detenue, including the comments said to have been

posted by him on the social media, and the subsequent actions. 72. In the circumstances, this writ petition is dismissed, leaving it

open to the petitioner / detenue to avail of his remedies in accordance with

law. There shall be no order as to costs. As a sequel, pending miscellaneous applications, if any, shall stand

closed. R RAGHUNANDAN RAO,J

 MAHESWARA RAO KUNCHEAM,J
Js. RRR,J & MRK,J W.P.No.26769/2024 THE HON'ABLE SRI JUSTICE R RAGHUNANDAN RAO
 AND
 THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE MAHESWARA RAO KUNCHEAM

 WRIT PETITION No.26769 of 2024
 (per Hon‟ble Sri Justice R Raghunandan Rao)

 18th December, 2024

Js