1. This so called Public Interest Litigation has been preferred with the
following prayers : 2. Petitioner appears in person submits that he intends to press only
prayer no. (iii). 3. We have heard the petitioner in person and learned counsel for the
respondents. Status Report, filed by the respondent no.5, Commissioner of
Police, discloses that 6790 Close Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras have
already been installed, 2467 CCTV cameras are in the process of installation
and a tender for installation of additional 4506 CCTV has also been floated
by the respondents. Thus, in total, there will be 13,763 CCTV cameras
installed in Delhi which facilitate the concerned authority to identify the
culprits and thereby prevent offences like chain snatching, eve teasing etc. in
the public areas of city of Delhi. 4. Moreover looking to Annexure C filed alongwith the said status
report, it appears that several other steps have also been initiated by the
respondents. The details of the steps given in Annexure „C‟ are reproduced
as under : 19. Mobile numbers of night GOs have been made available to
 public for direct contact. 20. Sensitization and check on public places: - Action against
 consuming alcohol in public place has been intensified. 21. Discotheques and night clubs have been strictly directed to
 close by 01:00 AM. 22. During Special checking at Metro Stations and Railway
 Stations, for the safety & security of women commuters 2,922
 persons have been challaned for travelling in woman
 compartments, in the year 2018 and 228 during the year 2019
 (upto 30th September). 23. Meetings with representatives of various NGOs, working in
 the field for empowerment of women, are organized on monthly
 basis to discuss the improvements in safety and security of women
 in Delhi. 24. Self-Defence Training:- Self-defence training was initiated in
 the year-2002 by the Special Police Unit for Women and Children,
 with an object to empower women by way of demonstration and
 training in techniques of Martial Arts and educate them about the
 tactics in self defence by using common things, which are
 generally in their possession like Dupatta, Pen & Handbags to
 protect themselves from attacks by anti- social elements, chain or
 bag snatching, criminal assault etc. Such trainings develop a
 sense of self esteem and release them from the feeling that they are
 vulnerable. Such training have been imparted to 4,07,373 W.P.(C) 10074/2017 Page 8 of 13 girls/women participants in 2,213 batches from 2002 to 2019
 (upto 31.08.2019). Apart from the above, 1,08,159 participants
 have been trained in 662 one day's workshops, held from 2002 to
 2019 (upto 31.08.2019). 25. Security audit of Paying Guest accommodations and hostels: 26. Placement Agencies: - Placement agencies have been
 identified to ensure that they are not used as fronts for illicit
 activities like human trafficking. 27. Civic Agencies: - Civic agencies are regularly being informed
 about poorly lit stretches of roads. Civic agencies have also been
 requested to install CCTVs, webcams at parking lots, shopping
 malls etc. 28. Traffic Police: - Traffic police has launched special drives
 against Public Transport vehicles having films & tinted glasses,
 unauthorized buses picking up passengers from crowded bus
 stands, and against TSR/Taxi drivers for refusal or misbehavior.
 Special deployment of the staff outside Metro Stations, designated
 Bus Stops, Malls at identified vulnerable routes is being done to
 inculcate confidence and provide on the spot help to public
 transport users. 29. Instructions are issued to BPOs and reviewed from time to
 time to ensure that woman employees are not made to travel alone
 with the cab driver and a duly verified security guard or a male
 colleague (regular employee of the company) is invariably present
 in each cab carrying women staff during the night hours i.e. 8 PM
 to 7 AM. On our directions the BPOs are exercising effective
 checks and controls on the vehicle's movement in order to prevent
 unwarranted activities by cab drivers, such as picking up
 strangers, straying away from the designated route, etc. by
 installing GPS systems in the cabs used for transportation of the
 employees. 30. Gender Sensitizatlon: - Gender Sensitization and legal
 awareness programmes are being organized for police personnel
 in association with the NGOs to create a gender-friendly
 environment in police stations of Delhi considering the need to
 educate and sensitize the police personnel on gender and related
 issues including legal provisions so that women do not face apathy
 and callousness while approaching police in distress. 428 gender
 sensitization programmes have been conducted in which, 11923
 police personnel have participated in the year 2017 and 331
 gender sensitization programmes have been conducted in which,
 9176 police personnel have participated during the year 2018 and,
 223 gender sensitization programme have been conducted in
 which, 6830 police personnel have participated during the current
 year 2019 (upto 30th September). 31. Expeditious completion of investigation of rape oases is
 accorded paramount importance by Delhi Police. Investigation in
 every rape case is closely monitored by the concerned DCP and
 the endeavour is to file charge sheet within twenty days of
 arresting the accused. 32. Speedy Trial of gang rape cases: - On the request of Delhi
 Police, Hon'ble Delhi High Court has issued directions to the
 District Courts in Delhi that all gang rape cases be fast tracked. 33. Shishtachar:- Under this scheme women police officers,
 dressed in civil clothes, are posted at busy places like markets,
 metro stations, cinema halls and buses to keep a watch on the
 miscreants. In case someone is caught while eve teasing or
 demonstrating an illicit behaviour, the person is immediately
 nabbed and taken to the police station for further course of action. 34. Exclusive Help Desks for Women In Police Stations:- 35. Public Facilitation Officer (PFO):- Public perception of
 police image is incumbent on many facets of police performance
 but the most important contributory factor is how a complainant is
 handled when he/she approaches a

 police station with a grievance. Keeping this in mind, Delhi Police
 has initiated this year a scheme of deploying Public Facilitation
 Officers (PFOs) in Police Stations. In this innovative endeavour, W.P.(C) 10074/2017 Page 11 of 13 well-trained and sensitized police officers (male & female) man
 the initial contact point of the police station and have been
 designated as the Public Facilitation Officers. These PFOs are
 attired in specially designed civilian dress so that the fear of
 uniform does not become a barrier in smooth interface and
 facilitation. At present, 171 police, stations in Delhi already have
 this facility which will be extended in due course to all the police
 stations. 36. Establishment of women police station:- Predominantly
 women staffed police station have been set-up in the North as well
 as South campuses of Delhi University i.e. Maurice Nagar and
 South Campus respectively for the safety of girl students and for
 building confidence among them. 37. Parivartan:- In this unique experiment, targeting mainly slum
 areas, women police officials are deputed to perform beat duties
 and they are imparted special training to control crime against
 women. Further this scheme includes educating parents, teachers,
 students, youths. Area Security Committee members, NGOs and
 other key persons on issues pertaining to safety of women. The
 scheme also includes door-step polioing by women constables for
 identification and reressal of grievances of women within the
 community; intensive street performances focusing on rape and
 sexual assault, dowry harassment and domestic violence against
 women and awareness lectures by psychologists to sensitize
 adolescent boys and girls about crime. 38. Liaison with Rape Crisis Intervention Centres:- A mechanism
 has been evolved to maintain a close liaison between the local
 police and the District RCICs and their members like Doctors,
 psychologists. Lawyers, Volunteer Organizations, Nodal Officers
 etc. by convening periodical meetings so as to facilitate providing
 professional counselling to rape victims." 5. Thus, looking to the status reports filed by the respondents, it appears
that enough and adequate steps have been taken to prevent/control the
crimes/offences in Delhi. It ought to be kept in mind that "good laws can
never restrain bad people but good people can always restrain bad
people". 6. In view of the above, we see no reason to further monitor this case.
However, we expect from the respondents that the steps already initiated by
them will be effectively implemented in the city of Delhi. 7. With these observations, this writ petition is hereby disposed of. 1. In view of the disposal of the writ petition, this application also stands
disposed of. CHIEF JUSTICE

 C.HARI SHANKAR, J. FEBRUARY 18, 2020/kr W.P.(C) 10074/2017 Page 13 of 13