collusion and connivance with the respondent no.2, and illegally and

 malafidely terminated the services of workmen in blatant violation of the

 provisions of Industrial Disputes Act . It is stated that management no.1 is

 a company incorporated under the Companies Act and is engaged in the

 business of publishing newspapers, journals and periodicals and other

 business. It is submitted that management no.1 publishes national dailies,

 popular journals/ magazines and used to print the same from printing

 undertaking at 18-20, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, H T House, New Delhi I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 2 of 50 110001, where the present workmen were employed for the printing of

 these newspapers etc and for such purpose management no.1 had

 employed a number of journalists and non-journalists including the

 Claimants/ Workmen herein. It is stated that management no.1 is

 presently managed and controlled by few individuals i.e. the so called

 promoters/ Owners of the Company namely Sh. K.K. Birla, Smt.

 Shobhana Bhatia, Sh. Shamit Bhartia, Sh. S.M. Agarwal etc, all Directors

 of the Company. It is pertinent to mention that Mr. K.K. Birla, the

 Chairperson/ Director of the management no.1 is the father of Smt.

 Sobhana Bhartia, Moreover, Mr. Shamit Bhartia is the son of Smt.

 Sobhana Bhartia. It is submitted that the management and ultimate control

 of management no.1 company is in the hands of above named Birla

 Family, who are owners of management no.1. 3. It is stated that management no. 1 is the promoter/ owner/creator

 of management no.2 company. It is stated that management no.1, as a part

 of business strategy, formed a new company in the name and style of H.T.

 Media Ltd, management no.2 herein. It is stated that Smt. Shobhana

 Bhartia, Mr. KK Birla, Shamit Bhartia and Priyavarta Bhartia (son

 of Smt. Shobhana Bhartia) etc., who are the owners/ directors of

 management no.1, are also the owners/ directors of management no.2. I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 3 of 50 It is stated that relationship of management no.1 with management

 no.2 is that of a holding and subsidiary company. It is stated that in the

 year 2004, management no.1 held 77% shares of management no.2. It is

 stated that employees of management no.1 and 2 used to work for each

 other for printing and publishing of National Dailies and other periodical

 sand magazines. It is stated that management of respondent no.1 and 2

 is the one and the same. 4. It is stated that management no.1 had vide notice dated

 07.02.2004 stated/ informed to the employees that as a business strategy,

 to meet the competition in the market, a new company HT Media Ltd (a

 subsidiary company of Hindustan Times Ltd) has been set up tot ake

 over the media business of Hindustan Times Ltd., management no.1

 herein, on an on going basis under an agreement and it is further stated

 that management no.2 is willing to take over the services of all the

 employees of management no.1 on their existing terms and conditions of

 employment, on an ongoing basis. It is stated that apart from other facts,

 it was further mentioned that the Union declined to accept the transfer to

 management no.2, as it expressed its apprehension about the future of the

 new company. It is stated that such claim of management no.1 stated I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 4 of 50 in the notice dated 07.02.2004 was a totally false claim. Moreover, it is

 stated that Claimants/ Workmen never declined any such offer, since

 there was no such offer. It is stated that Union vide letter dated

 05.03.2004, responded to the said notice and clealry stated in its reply that

 "it was totally incorrect and misleading to state that the Union declined the

 offer to accept the transfer of Hindustan Times Employees to HT Media

 Ltd. 5. It is stated that management no.1 assured the Union vide letter

 dated 24.07.2000 that no printing work will ever be shifted to any outside

 agency except for exigencies of work and it will never declare the staff

 surplus on this account. However, despite the abovesaid assurance,

 management no.1 suddenly closed the printing undertaking at 18-20,

 Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi on 02.08.2004 on the ground that

 management no.2 had made its own arrangement for printing of

 newspapers. It is stated that in consequence to the above, the Union raised

 an industrial dispute relating to the illegal stoppage of the printing

 undertaking at 18-20 Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi and filed a claim

 statement dated 10.09.2004 before Conciliation Officer and the

 respondents filed their respective replies and also participated in

 conciliation proceeding. It is stated that on 03.10.2004, during the I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 5 of 50 pendency of said industrial dispute before the Asst. Labour Commissioner,

 management no.1 in collusion with management no.2, illegally terminated

 the services of 362 employees including the workmen herein working in

 the printing undertaking at 18-20, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi. It

 is stated that both the managements acted in collusion with each other and

 any transfer of printing establishment from management no.1 to

 management no.2 is false, fictitious and malafide because the two

 managements are under the management of same corporate house/

 employer. It is stated that transfer of printing undertaking of

 management no.1 to management no.2 is not bonafide and genuine

 transfer and the same is not in tune with the intent, purpose and

 essential ingredients of provisions of ID Act, 1947 and especially section 25FF of the Act. It is stated that media business is an integrated

 business consisting of several divisions including the printing division.

 The various divisions in the media business cannot be separated and

 distinguished. Under section 25FF of the I.D. Act, the requirement is that

 the whole integrated business be transferred to a new separate and

 independent company. 6. It is stated that a meeting of Union was called on 06.10.2004,

 where a resolution was passed to raise another industrial dispute against I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 6 of 50 the illegal notice/ order dated 03.01.2004 issued by management no.1 for

 termination of the services of workmen and transfer of printing

 undertaking. It is stated that another claim statement dated 13.10.2004

 was moved before the Asst. Labour Commissioner in this respect. It is

 stated that management no.1 being the owner of management no.2, has

 never given any reasonable and justified ground of not taking over the

 services of workmen working in printing undertaking for last few decades.

 It is stated that the workmen are still ready and willing to join their

 duties in the printing undertaking. It is stated that the workmen are

 still unemployed. It is prayed that action of management no.1 in

 transferring ownership of its printing undertaking to management no.2

 w.e.f. 2.10.04 and terminating services of workmen be declared illegal and

 accordingly reinstatement with full back wages and continuity of service

 be awarded to workmen. 7. In the WS filed by the management no.1, it is stated that reference

 is bad in law as it contemplates two employers and there cannot be two

 employers of workmen and that two employers cannot be directed to

 reinstate the workmen. It is further submitted that the reference does not

 disclose as to who is the employer in relation to the workmen. It is further

 submitted that some of the workmen as mentioned in Annexure A to the I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 7 of 50 written statement have already taken their full and final settlement in

 respect of their disputes and thus, these workmen would not be covered by

 the reference nor entitled to any relief in the present reference. It is

 submitted that Sh. Rajesh Anand, who has signed the statement of claim

 claiming himself to be the authorised representative of the workmen, has

 neither any locus standi nor competent to put up any statement of claim on

 behalf of workmen and likewise Sh. Aita Ram also has no locus standi and

 competent to file the affidavit in support of the statement of claim filed by

 Sh. Rajesh Anand, who is stranger and not a party to the reference and as

 such the statement so filed, is not valid. Therefore, it is stated that the

 relief, in terms of reference, cannot be granted to the workmen and the

 statement of claim is liable to be dismissed. 8. It is submitted by management no.1 in its written statement that

 ownership of printing undertaking was transferred to management no.2

 under section 25FF of Industrial Disputes Act and as per settled law, upon

 transfer of ownership of an undertaking, the transferor is legally entitled to

 terminate the employees after giving them compensation equivalant to the

 retrenchment compensation provided under the Industrial Disputes Act . It

 is submitted that admittedly, the said compensation has been paid to the

 employees. I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 8 of 50 9. It is further submitted by management no.1 that management

 no.1 is currently engaged in the business of real estate and

 investments. Earlier, it was engaged in the media business and was also

 the Printer and Publisher of the leading newspaper "Hindustan Times" an

 English daily amongst others. It is stated that management no.1 w.e.f.

 1.7.03 sold and transferred its media business to management no.2 under

 two Business Purchase Agreements (hereinafter referred to as BPA) dated

 15.8.03 and in terms of said BPAs the company was to take steps to

 transfer its assets to management no.2. It is stated that in accordance with

 the understanding of BPAs, the company managed the media business on

 behalf of management no.2 upto and untill 14.12.03, when the transfer of

 business was completed. It is stated that in terms of clause 7.1 of the BPA,

 the management no.2 agreed to take over the services of all the employees

 of the management no.1 on the same terms and conditions of employment

 as were offered by the company on continuity of service basis. It is stated

 that about 800 employees, who were members of Hindustan Times

 Employees Union, working at HT House, New Delhi declined to accept

 their transfer to HT Media Ltd, which included employees working in

 the printing undertaking of the company. It is stated that numerous I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 9 of 50 meetings were held with the Union representatives from time to time and

 it explained to the Union representative that the media business had

 already been taken over by management no.2 and more than 2200

 employees all over India including unionised employees at various

 locations had already accepted their transfer and joined the services of

 management no.2 and as such Union should also advise its members to

 accept their transfer to management no.2 as the transfer, did not in any

 manner, adversely affect their service conditions. The Union, however,

 firmly declined to accept the transfer of the employees to management

 no.2. 10. It is stated that despite the rigid stand taken by the Union, the

 management decided not to take any action resulting in their

 unemployment and instead issued a notice dated 7.2.04 confirming

 minutes of the meeting with the Union, wherein offers had been made to

 the Union to accept the transfer of all its members employees to

 management no.2 and since the union declined to accept the transfer of the

 employees to the new company, status quo shall be maintained and the

 concerned employees shall continue to remain employees of management

 no.1. 11. It is stated that clause 7.4 of the BPA, stipulated that if I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 10 of 50 management no.1 was unable to transfer the employees to management

 no.2, for reasons beyond its control, then subject to compliance with

 applicable laws, the management no.1 while retaining all the employees

 on its toll, provided all the employees for the purpose of media business,

 to management no.2 on a contract basis and the management no.1 would

 be compensated for all actual costs associated with all the employees,

 including costs relating to the payment under the Voluntary Retirement

 Scheme, employees benefits, obligations, compensation as applicable for

 services provided by management no.1 pursuant to the contract

 arrangements executed in connection therewith. 12. It is further submitted by management no.1 that in order to avoid

 unemployment of the concerned workmen, the management no.1 entered

 into a Service Agreement dated 5.3.04 as per the clause 7.4 of the BPA for

 providing certain printing and news gathering services to HT Media

 Limited on contract basis. 13. It is submitted that on 31.7.04, the management no.2 informed the

 management no.1 that they would no longer require the printing services

 of the management no.1 as they had by them fully developed and made

 their own arrangements for printing of all its newspapers including the

 supplements which were being printed at the printing press situated at HT I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 11 of 50 House, New Delhi. Management no.1, accordingly, issued a letter dated

 2.8.04, informing the workmen and the Union about stopping of printing

 of newspapers at the Printing Undertaking at HT House, New Delhi. It is

 stated that the management no.1, therefore, started looking for alternatives

 and also sounded the Union as to whether the workmen would accept their

 transfer to management no.2 in case the said company decided to take

 over the ownership of printing undertaking. The Union, however, went on

 to pass a Resolution dated 5.8.04 to consider the Management's Letter

 dated 2.8.04 by which the concerned workmen were intimated about the

 stopping of printing of newspaper at the printing press at HT House, New

 Delhi. A reading of the Resolution would show that even on 2.8.04, when

 the management had issued the notice informing the workmen about the

 stopping of work, the Union continued to maintain its rigid stand that the

 services of employees can neither be transferred nor terminated on such a

 plea. It is submitted that in pursuance to the resolution passed by the

 Union, the Union also raised an industrial dispute and filed a statement of

 claim before the Asst. Labour Commissioner, NCT of Delhi on 10.9.04.

 Even in the statement of claim filed, the Union maintained the same stand

 that the services of workmen cannot be transferred. It is submitted that in

 para 4 of the said statement of claim, Union has admitted that MT Media I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 12 of 50 Ltd is a new concern and further in para 6, Union has continued to

 maintain its rigid stand that the management has no right to transfer the

 services of employees to a new company, as there exists no relationship of

 employer and employee. Finally, management no.1 sold its printing

 undertaking to management no.2 for Rs.5 Crores. Thereafter,

 management no.1 issued a notice dated 3.10.04 to the workmen giving

 information to this effect and further informing that since management

 no.2 had not taken over the services of workmen working in Printing

 Undertaking, their services would come to an automatic end on the

 transfer of Printing Undertaking w.e.f 3.10.04 and thereafter individual

 letters in this regard were sent to the workmen by speed post alongwith

 cheques containing requisite compensation u/s 25 FF of ID Act,

 aggregating to Rs.6.21 crores. 14. It is submitted that management no.2 is a separate and distinct

 company having their own boards of directors. It is denied that ultimate

 control of both the companies rests in the hands of few persons like Mr.

 KK Birla, Ms. Shobhana Bhartia and Mr. SM Agarwal. It is submitted that

 management no.2 has on its board two representatives of M/s H. Anderson

 and City Corp as Directors and that management no.2 is paying rent to

 management no.1 for occupying space at HT House, Kasturba Gandhi I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 13 of 50 Marg, New Delhi and, therefore, having offices at HT House, would not as

 well help the case of the workmen. It is denied that management no.1 is

 holding more than 77% share of management no.2. It is denied that

 management no.1 assured its employees vide letter dated 24.7.2000 that

 printing work will not be shifted to any other agency and that no staff will

 be declared surplus on this account. It is stated that settlement dated

 12.8.04 has no relevant to the present case. It is submitted that in terms of

 BPA, all employees including those working in Printing Press were duly

 offered opportunities on more than one occasion to join services of

 management no.2 with continuity of service but they refused. Even at the

 time of transfer of Printing Undertaking the offer was once again repeated,

 but the same was not accepted, which is clearly evident from subsequent

 resolution passed by the Union and statement of claim filed before

 conciliation officer. It is submitted that workmen are gainfully employed

 elsewhere. Evenotherwise, they have received huge amounts running into

 lacs of rupees as compensation. All other allegations made in the

 statement of claim have been denied by the management no.1 in its WS. 15. Management no.2 M/s. HT Media Limited has filed separate

 written statement narrating similar facts as mentioned in the WS of

 management no.1. It is stated that it is the action of management no.1 I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 14 of 50 which has been challenged and referred for adjudication and it is for the

 management no.1 company to justify its action and thus, management no.2

 is not a necessary party in the present case. It is submitted that on admitted

 position, relationship of employer and employee never existed between

 workmen and management no.2. It is submitted that management no.2

 took over the media business of management no.1, except the printing

 undertaking at New Delhi w.e.f. 1.7.03. It is submitted on 31.7.04,

 management no.2 informed management no.1 that it no longer

 required the printing services of management no.1, having made its

 own arrangements for printing of all its newspaper including once

 which were being printed at HT House, New Delhi. Thereafter, under

 an agreement dated 1.10.04, it took over the ownership of printing

 Undertaking against a consideration amount of Rs.5 crores without

 taking over the workmen and started printing some of its publications

 from the printing press at the printing undertaking for some time (till mid

 February 2005), which was thereby stopped due to non receipt of

 mandatory permission by government. Thus, management no.2 has

 nothing to do with alleged termination of services of the workmen. It is,

 therefore, prayed that reference as well as the statement of claim qua I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 15 of 50 respondent no.2 be dismissed with costs. 16. Workmen have filed separate rejoinders to written statements of

 both the managements, wherein they have reiterated the stand taken in

 their statement of claim and denied the averments made in the written

 statement. 17. On the basis of pleadings of the parties, following issues were
 framed by Ld. Predecessor on 20.02.2009 :- (OPM). Whether 315 workmen named in Annexure A
 have taken their full and final settlement. Whether the
 claim statement has been sent by competent person I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 16 of 50 having locus standi? OPW 9. In terms of reference. 18. Vide order dated 07.08.09, following additional issues were

 framed by Ld. Predecessor:- 19. 282 witnesses have been examined in chief on behalf of workmen

 as WW 1 to WW 282, out of which only WW 1 Sh. Surya Mani Mishra

 has been cross-examined. 20. WW 1 in his affidavit, filed by way of examination-in-chief, has

 deposed that he is the workman no.246 in the present case. It is deposed

 that he was appointed in the management company on 1.5.1980 at the post

 of News Daftary (Packer) on 1st May, 1981. He has proved the copy of

 letter of management dated 24.7.2000 as Ex. WW1/B, assuring that with

 the easing of the situation, printing facility will be brought back to the HT

 house and no printing work will ever be shifted outside except for

 exigencies of work as also that it will never declared the staff surplus on I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 17 of 50 this account. It is deposed that on 03.10.04, management no.1 held 77.1%

 shares of its subsidiary company i.e. HTML as reflected in the relevant

 annual reports placed on record. It is deposed that annual report for the

 year 2005-06 makes it clear that even after the illegal termination of

 workmen, management no.1 was doing media business and was actively

 involved in the process of News gathering and was getting revenue from

 HTML for providing services to them. This makes it evident that even

 after HTL claims to have sold the media business in the year 2003, it

 continued to carry out the same much thereafter and therefore, their claim

 that they were no longer doing media/ printing business after 2003 is false.

 It is deposed that even the pleadings submitted by HTL before Hon'ble

 High Court as late as 17.11.05 which is at page 1731, para 5 of vol. IV of

 the additional documents submitted by the Workmen makes it very clear

 that it is the admitted case of HTL that even after the year 2003-04, by

 when the entire Media business was alleged to have been transferred by

 HTL to HTML, most of the media business of printing and publishing of

 English daily, Hindustan Times continued with HTL and was being run

 jointly with HTML. Copy of the petition dated 17.11.05 has been proved

 as Ex. WW1/C. It is deposed that as per clause 7.1 of the said BPA,

 HTML agreed to take over the services of employees of management no.1 I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 18 of 50 on the same terms on continuity of service basis. It is deposed that at page

 12 of the said BPA, it is agreed that between 01.07.03 till final take over

 i.e. during the interrengnum period the Media business shall be conducted

 by HTL and operated for the benefit of HTML and that the media business

 shall belong to HTML from 01.07.2003. It is deposed that neither any

 transfer letter nor any offer letter to join HTML has been given by

 management no.1. It is deposed by WW 1 that no proof has been placed

 on record to suggest that he declined the transfer to HTML. It is deposed

 that without being given any opportunity and any offer to join HTML, his

 services were terminated. It is deposed that even if the case of HTL is to

 be believed for the sake of arguments, once HTML (which is a subsidiary

 of HTL and managed by the same management i.e. persons belonging to

 the same family), became the successor-in-interest of HTL as far as media

 business is concerned and automatically became the employer of the

 workmen. In the rest of his affidavit, WW 1 has more or less reiterated the

 contentions made in the statement of claim. 21. In his cross-examination, WW 1 has deposed that he was member

 of HTEU and he continued to be member of the union till today and

 during the period from 15.08.03 to 3.10.04, Mr. SN Sinha was the General

 Secretary of the Union. It is deposed that cases of all the 362 employees I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 19 of 50 were taken up and raised by HTEU and demand notice was sent to the

 management by this Union. It is deposed that statement of claim dated

 13.10.04 Ex. WW1/M1 was filed in the labour office and that he trusted

 the union, therefore, he personally did not read the statement of claim filed

 by the Union. It is deposed that he had given authorisation to the Union

 for raising the dispute vide claim dated 13.10.04 in writing. It is deposed

 that statement of claim Ex. WW1/M4 was filed by Aita Ram and Rajesh

 Anand and thereafter, the role of the Union was finished. It is admitted

 that after filing of third statement of claim, the management challenged the

 same before Hon'ble High Court by way of Writ Petition and after the

 order passed in the said writ petition, the fourth statement of claim was

 filed, which is Ex. MW1/M6 bearing signatures of Aita Ram and Rajesh

 Anand and that Sh. Rajesh Anand is an Advocate, who has been appearing

 for workmen as Authorised Representative. It is deposed that Sh. Anand

 Parkash was the President and Sh. Javed Fareedi was the General

 Secretary of the Union. It is deposed that he has authorised Sh. Aita Ram

 and Sh. Rajesh Anand to sign statement of claim. It is deposed that

 workmen authorised Sh. Aita Ram to sign statement of claim dated

 15.1.07 vide resolution Ex. WW1/M7 and the said resolution was passed

 in first week of December, 2006 and there is no other resolution except the I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 20 of 50 same. It is deposed that will the workers were informed by calling meeting

 for holding a meeting on 15.12.06, however, it is admitted that minutes of

 meeting of the said meeting have not been placed on record. 22. It is admitted by WW 1 in his cross-examination that Union has

 been authorised in this claim upto 15.12.06 and w.e.f. 15.12.06, the Union

 was removed from the case as it got sold. He did not know if about 2200

 employees have accepted their transfer to HTML all over India after

 signing BPA dated 15.8.03. It is denied that he and other workmen in this

 reference have refused to take the employment with HTML. He has

 voluntarily stated that he was ready to join HTML earlier also ready and

 is ready even today. WW 1 did not know whether HTML was reimbursing

 his salary as well as salary of other workmen to HTL as per service

 agreement dated 5.3.04. It is denied that management had persuaded the

 workmen to join HTML as their service conditions were not going to be

 affected adversely as the same conditions shall prevail after transfer. It is

 denied that workmen refused to join HTML and, therefore, no

 transfer letter was issued to them. It is admitted that an agreement

 took place on 2.10.2004 between HTML and HTL regarding transfer

 of printing press and plant machinery. It is denied that workmen did not I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 21 of 50 encash the cheques of retrenchment compensation but on the directions of

 Hon'ble High Court, they have received the said amount. It is denied that

 they have full knowledge that their services had been taken over by

 HTML. 23. In the cross-examination of WW 1, conducted by management

 no.2, it is deposed that there is no document to show that they have ever

 been the employees of HTML. It is voluntarily stated that business

 agreement itself is sufficient to show that his service were transferred to

 HTML. It is deposed that he did not receive letter dated 3.10.04 regarding

 termination of his services. Voluntarily, it has been stated that there was

 a public notice by HTL to the effect that HTML has refused to take

 the workmen including me in job, therefore, his services were

 terminated. It is admitted that he has never worked for HTML during the

 period w.e.f. 01.05.1980 to 03.10.2004. He is not aware whether HTML is

 a listed company with Stock Exchange. It is denied that presently, HTL is

 engaged in real estate business. WW 1 could not tell the number of co-

 workers who joined HTML after the business agreement dated

 15.08.2003. It is denied that there was offer for every worker to joint

 HTML. It is denied that all the workers except unionised employees of

 Delhi Office had had agreed to be transferred to HTML. It is deposed that I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 22 of 50 name of the Union was Hindustan Times Employees Union and at that

 time there were about 800 members of the Union. It is admitted that all the

 members of the Union were employees of HTL. WW 1 is not aware that

 M/s HTL and M/s HTML are two different companies registered under the Companies Act or that they are two distinct entities. 24. It is admitted by WW 1 that upon signing of the business

 purchase agreement dated 15.8.03, the entire media business of HTL

 all over India was taken over by HTML. A question was put to WW 1

 that in the annexure to Schedule V of the business purchase agreement

 dated 15.8.03, the names of all employees of HTL were included and the

 same also included the names of all the employees as mentioned in the

 order of reference in present case. The reply to this suggestion is that

 "except my name, I cannot say about others". 25. Management has examined Sh. V K Charoria, Director and

 Company Secretary of Hindustan Times Ltd., as MW 1. In his affidavit,

 filed by way of examination-in-chief, he has reiterated the contentions

 made in the written statement of management no.1. 26. In his cross-examination, MW 1 has admitted that he is the

 Director in some of the subsidiaries of Hindustan Times namely

 Shraddhanjali Investment and Trading Ltd. He has deposed that he joined I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 23 of 50 HTL in February 1994 and he again said that in April, 1994. MW 1 has

 deposed that he did not resign from HTL but on a continuity of

 service basis, he moved to HTML w.e.f. 1.7.03. It is deposed that it

 was Board of Directors who took the decision to move him from HTL

 to HTML. It is deposed that at the relevant time, Board of Directors

 consisted of Sh. SM Agarwal, DN Padudia, MD Dalmia, KK Birla,

 Priyavrat Bhartiya and Sobhna Bhartiya in HTL. It is deposed that

 Shobhna Bhartiya was vice-chairman of HTL at relevant time. He did

 not remember composition of board of directors of HTML in July, 03. It is

 deposed by MW 1 that he resigned from HTL before he joined HTML. He

 do not remember the date of resignation. It is deposed that by the time he

 joined HTML w.e.f. July, 03, he had already resigned from HTL but he

 does not remember the date exactly. He again said that he does not

 remember whether he resigned from HTL before joining HTML. MW

 1 has deposed that he must have signed certain documents on behalf

 of HTL even after joining HTML because the process of handing over

 and taking over was going on. It is deposed that process of handing over

 and taking over was completed by 15.12.03 and even after 15.12.03, he

 might have executed the documents on behalf of HTL. It is deposed by I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 24 of 50 MW 1 that word "media business" includes publishing, internet, radio,

 television business and that no media business was done by HTL after

 14.12.03. It is denied that even after 14.12.03, HTL continued to do media

 business. It is admitted that as per business purchase agreement dated

 15.8.03, workmen were to be transfered to HTML. MW 1 was not aware

 whether management no.1 wanted to transfer the workmen in this case to

 management no.2 without their consent. It is deposed that it was the HR

 Department of management no.1, which was involved in dealing with the

 workmen. It is deposed that documents mark C to G would suggest that

 offer for transfer was given to the workmen between the period 15.8.03 to

 5.3.04. MW 1 has pointed out the documents/ letters mark F,I,J, Ex.

 MW1/7, Ex. MW1/7G stating that these were issued by workmen refusing

 to join the services of HTML. It is deposed that those workers, who

 accepted the transfer, were transferred to HTML and that out of 3500,

 more than 2600 accepted the transfer. 27. It is denied that HTL transferred its printing work in December

 2003 from HT House to Noida and engaged contract workers for printing.

 MW 1 did not remember whether there was any document on record file

 to show that workmen in question had been informed about service

 agreement dated 5.3.04 prior to 2.8.04, as it is a matter of record. It is I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 25 of 50 denied that HTL had installed new printing press in Noida in December

 2003 and slowly transferred all printing work to Printing Press Noida and

 employed contract workers. It is denied that due to Wage Board

 recommendations, it was very expensive to continue employing workmen

 and therefore, a false ground of refusal to join service in HTML was

 created. 28. Sh. Manoj Bhargava, Dy. General Manager, Legal of HT Media

 Ltd. has been examined as MW 2. In his affidavit, filed by way of

 affidavit, it is deposed that pursuant to transfer of ownership of media

 business from management no.1 to management no.2, the relevant changes

 were effected by various government agencies/ departments and some

 documents issued by various government departments have been proved

 as Ex. MW1/3 to MW 1/11. In the rest of the affidavit, MW 2 has more or

 less reiterated the contentions made in the written statement of

 management no.2. 29. It is admitted that HTL is a majority share holder of HTML

 holding approximately 68.73 % shares in it. He did not know whether

 Priyavarat Bhartiya was authorised by both HTL and HTML to execute

 the business purchase agreement. A suggestion has been put to MW 2 as

 to whether HTML had made its own work arrangements for the workmen I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 26 of 50 in question, to which it is replied that it appears from the record that it was

 the intent of the management to prove them work. It is admitted that

 agreement of 05.03.2004 was terminated prematurely. It was deposed by

 MW 2 that the media business of HTL was purchased by HTML as

 per the business purchase agreements dated 15.08.2003, which is on

 record. 30. Management no.2 has also examined Sh. Harish Nagpal as

 MW2/M-2. In his affidavit, filed by way of examination-in-chief he has

 deposed that he had been working as AVP (Supply Chain) with HT Media

 Ltd.. In his affidavit, he has reiterated the contentions made in the written

 statement filed by management no.2. 31. In his cross-examination, he has deposed that he is working with

 Hindustan Media Venture Ltd. 18-20, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi.

 He is not aware whether Ms. Shobna Bhartiya and Priyavrata Bhartiya are

 directors of HTML. It is deposed that in November 2003 w.e.f 1.7.03, he

 was given the transfer order for joining HTML. He again said that he

 joined HTML in November 2003 accepting the offer given w.e.f. 1.7.03

 and the transfer letter was given by HR Department. He again said that

 offer letter was given by HR department. He has deposed that until June,

 2003, principal business of HTL was printing newspaper. In reply to the I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 27 of 50 question whether in the year 2003, any new printing machines were

 purchased by HTML for Noida Newspaper Establishment at B 2, Sector

 63, Noida, witness replied in negative. He has also deposed that in the year

 2003, new printing machines were purchased by HTL and ownership of

 these machines, delivered on order, were transferred from HTL to HTML

 by virtue of BPA. MW 2/M-2 was not aware whether HTL continued to

 hold license for the factory premises at Noida under the Factory Act even

 after December 2003. It is deposed that there were newspaper

 establishment at 13 locations under the control of HTL at the time of

 execution of BPA. It is deposed that new printing machines were installed

 in Noida newspaper establishment in December 03. It is denied that

 agreements dated 15.8.03, 5.3.04 and 1.10.04 are false and prepared in

 collusion with HTL only to oust the workmen in question from their

 services. 32. Management no.2 has examined Sh. Sham Lal, official from

 Ministry of Information and Broadcasting as MW2/M-3. He has proved on

 record some guidelines and communications regarding the approvals

 granted to HT Media Ltd as Ex. MW2/M-3/1 to Ex. MW2/M-3/4. In his

 cross-examination, he has deposed that he cannot say whether

 management had filed documents Ex. MW2/M-3/1 to Ex. MW2/M-3/3 I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 28 of 50 alongwith WS or at later stage. 33. Management has examined Sh. Peeyush Jain, Sr.Manager (Legal)

 of HT Media Ltd., as MW 2/M-4. He has proved on record certified copy

 of certain documents regarding annual return and capital structure of the

 company as Ex. MW2/M-4/1 to Ex. MW2/M-4/61. These documents were

 objected to on behalf of workmen as regards their relevancy to the case. In

 his cross-examination, MW2/M-4 has deposed that he has no personal

 knowledge of the contents of the documents Ex. MW2/M4/57 to 61. He

 has deposed that he joined services of HTML in September 2010. 34. I have heard arguments from Sh. Ashwin Vaish & Sh. Vinod

 Pandey, Ld. Counsels/ARs for workmen, Sh. S.K. Bhasin & Sh. Ajit

 Upadhyay, Ld. Counsels/ARs for management no.1. I have gone through

 the bulk written submissions and judgments filed by all the parties and

 have perused the entire record. My findings on the issues are as under:- 35. Findings on issue no.1. Issue no.1 is Whether HTML is the subsidiary company of HTL

 and managed by same management i.e. persons belonging to the same

 family, if so, its effect? OPW 36. Section 4 of the Companies Act provides that a company would

 become subsidiary of another company if: I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 29 of 50 37. It is admitted by MW 2 that HTL is a majority share holder of

 HTML holding approximately 68.73 % shares in it. Further, document Ex.

 MW1/7, shows that management no.1 i.e. HTL was holding 84.62%

 shares in management no.2 (HTML). Such percentage of shares shows

 that HTL was having more than 3/4th share in HTML in the year 2004,

 when services of workmen were terminated. Thus, in view of definition

 u/s 4 of Companies Act , HTML is subsidiary company of HTL. 38. Question of consideration is whether HTML (HT Media Ltd.) is

 managed by the same management i.e. persons belonging to the same

 family. This issue can be answered only if corporate veil of the two

 companies can be allowed in law to be lifted. An incorporated company is

 clothed with distinct personality by fiction of law. The company, as a legal

 entity is separate and distinct from its promoters, share holders, directors,

 officers etc. of employees. With incorporation, the entity of the company I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 30 of 50 becomes institutionalised. This principle of independent corporate

 existence of a registered company is well illustrated in Salomon vs.

 Salomon & co., 1897, A.C. 22. 39. Under the law, an incorporated company is a distinct entity, and

 although, all the shares may be practically controlled by one person, in

 law, company is distinct entity and it is not permissible or relevant to

 enquire whether the directors belonged to the same family or whether it is,

 as compendiously described a 'one man company'. 40. Principle of Lifting of Corporate Veil is found statutory

 recognition in certain provisions of Companies Act, 1956 . The relevant

 sections are 45, 147, 212, 247, 554 of the said Act. The corporate veil is to

 be lifted when the court ignores the company and concerns itself directly

 with the members or managers. 41. Hon'ble Supreme Court in Tata Engineering Locomotive

 Company Vs. State of Bihar , AIR, 1965, SC 40 observed that the

 discretion of the court in the matter of lifting corporate veil will, however,

 depend on the social economic policies and moral factors operating in or

 through the corporation. 42. Hon'ble Delhi High Court in PNB Finance Ltd. Vs. Shri Sital

 Prasad jain 1983, (53), Comp. Cases, 66 observed as follows:- I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 31 of 50 43. In India Western India Automobile Association Vs. Industrial

 Tribunal Bombay MANU/FE/0005/1949 , Hon'ble Federal Court held that: 44. In Bidi, Bidi Leaves' and Tobacco Merchants Association Vs.

 The State of Bombay AIR 1962 SC 486, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed

 as follows:- 45. It has been observed in The Bharat Bank Ltd., Delhi vs.

 Employees of the Bharat Bank Ltd., Delhi MANU/ SC 0030/1950 that: 46. Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Delhi Administration Vs. Yogender

 Singh , 1997 (1) AD (Delhi) 8 observed as follows:- 47. In the present case, a crucial question that arises for consideration

 is about applicability and non-applicability of Section 25 FF of Industrial

 Disputes Act. Management of HTL has dispensed with the services of

 large number of employees of HTL by invoking said Section 25 FF of ID

 Act. It is the case of workmen that the said provision of law could not be

 invoked by HTL as transferor HTL and transferee HTML are being

 controlled by the members of same family. I am of the considered view I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 33 of 50 that in order to consider the rights of workmen under any welfare

 legislation, corporate veil can be lifted by Industrial Tribunal even if no

 fraud or ill will is apparent on record. There can be no doubt that Industrial Disputes Act is a welfare legislation. Hence, for considering

 applicability or non-applicability of secton 25 FF of Industrial Disputes

 Act in the present case, corporate veil of the two companies i.e. HTL and

 HTML can be lifted to know the real status and character of these two

 companies. 48. There is no dispute between the parties that business purchase

 agreement dated 15.08.2003 was entered into between HTL and HTML,

 wherein HTL was seller and HTML was purchaser in respect of media

 business. In the said agreement, it is mentioned that HTML i.e.

 purchaser is wholly owned subsidiary of HTL i.e. seller. This is

 recorded at point B in the introductory portion at page 1 of the agreement. 49. Para 2 of the said agreement relates to purchase and sale of media

 business. Para 2.1 of said agreement provides as below: 50. Said agreement is signed by Ms. Shobhna Bhartiya as authorised

 signatory of seller i.e. HTL and by Priyavrat Bhartiya as authorised

 signatory of HTML. It is worth noting that MW 1 Sh. V K Charoria

 (Director and Company Secretary of HTL) in his cross-examination has

 deposed that at the relevant time, Board of Directors consisted of Sh. SM

 Aggarwal, Sh. DN Patodia, Ms. MD Dalmia, Sh. KK Birla, Sh. Priyavrat

 Bhartiya and Ms. Shobhna Bhartiya in HTL. It is worth noting that at

 the relevant time, Priyavrat Bhartiya was Director of HTL on the one hand

 and he was authorised signatory of HTML on the other hand. It is

 mentioned in evidence of MW 1 that Ms. Priyavrat Bhartiya, Director, is

 son of Ms. Shobhna Bhartiya, another Director. There is no dispute by

 managements on this fact. Thus, it is apparent that directors of two

 companies were interchangeable on continuity of service basis. 51. There is no dispute that agreement dated 1.10.04 was entered into

 between HTL and HTML. Introductory portion B of the said agreement

 provides that media business of HTL has been taken over and transferred

 to HTML. HTML took over printing and publishing business at 15 I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 35 of 50 locations across the country and publishing business at Delhi, vide two

 separate sale agreements, both dated 15.8.03. 52. Point C of the introductory part of the said agreement inter-alia

 provides that HTML, while taking over media business of HTL, agreed to

 take over services of all the employees of HTL including employees

 working in printing press at HT House, New Delhi, with continuity of

 service and on their existing terms of employment. The disputed portion in

 the said introductory part is that the employees of printing undertaking i.e

 .Supervisors and Managerial Staff declined to accept their transfer to

 HTML. Para 2 of the said agreement relates to the transfer of printing

 undertaking. Para 2.1 of the said agreement provides as below:- 53. Introductory point H of the said agreement provides as under:- 54. Para 2.3 of the said agreement dated 1.10.04 provides as below: 55. It is worth noting that business agreement between HTL and

 HTML including also agreement dated 1.10.04 are res gestae i.e. forming

 part of same transaction. Said principle of res gestae finds place in Section

 6 of Indian Evidence Act. Accordingly, for the present purpose, not only

 agreement dated 1.10.04, but also other agreements including also

 agreement dated 15.8.03 are relevant. It is worth noting that MW 1 Sh.

 VK Charoria, Director and Company Secretary of HTL, in his cross-

 examination, has deposed that he did not resign from HTL, but on

 continuity of service basis, he moved to HTML w.e.f. 1.7.03. This shows

 that directors of holding company i.e. HTL and subsidiary company i.e.

 HTML were interchangeable. 56. In view of above discussion, on Lifting of Corporate Veil of the

 two companies i.e. HTL and HTML, I am of the considered view that

 substantial ownership and management of the two companies were the

 same for the following reasons:- I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 37 of 50 57. Now, the matter for consideration is about effect of HTL and

 HTML being managed by the same management. Section 25 FF of

 Industrial Disputes Act provides as below:- 58. In the situation of the present case, the word 'transfer' is of vital

 significance. When the ownership of management of two companies, one

 holding company and the other subsidiary company, is found substantially I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 38 of 50 in holding company, it cannot be said that under any agreement to sell,

 transfer has taken place infact, though, in form it has taken place. When

 transferor and transferee are same set of companies, I am of the considered

 view that Section 25 FF of I.D. Act is not applicable. Issue no.1 is

 answered accordingly. 59. Findings on Issue No.2

 Issue no.2 is : Whether the transfer letters were issued to the

 workmen? 60. In this regard, para 7 of statement of claim is reproduced as

 below: - Moreover, it is pertinent to mention here that the
 Claimants/ Workmen never ever declined any such offer
 since there was no such offer. That the Union vide
 letter dated 05.03.2004 responded to the said notice and I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 39 of 50 clearly stated in its reply that "it was totally incorrect
 and misleading to state that the Union declined the offer
 to accept the transfer of Hindustan Times employees to
 HT Media Ltd." 61. In the written statement, in corresponding para, it is stated as

 follows:- 62. It is apparent that case of the workmen is that vide notice dated

 07.02.2004, they were informed that as a business strategy to meet the

 competition in this market, a new company HT Media Limited (a

 subsidiary company of Hindustan Times Limited) had been set up to take

 over the media business of the Hindustan Times Ltd, on an on going basis I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 40 of 50 under an agreement. However, there was no offer to workmen to join HT

 Media Limited. In corresponding reply para in the written statement,

 reproduced above, it is stated that in various meetings with the Union

 representatives, the fact of handing over of media business to management

 no.2 was informed. It has not been specifically pleaded in written

 statement that transfer letters were issued to the workmen. Thus,

 management has failed to rebut the claim of workmen that there was offer

 to them to join HT Media Ltd. 63. Hence, it is held that no transfer letters were issued to the

 workmen. This issue is decided accordingly. 64. Findings on issue no.3

 Issue no.3 is : Whether decision of management no.1 in

 transferring of the ownership of Printing Undertaking to management no.2

 is bonafide to protect the interest of workmen? If not, to what effect? OPM 65. As held vide issue no.1, management no.1 and 2 are not separate

 entities. HTML is the subsidiary company of HTL and managed by same

 management. HTML is extended version of HTL. Therefore, refusal by

 management no.2 to take services of workers of management no.1

 engaged in printing undertaking does not seem to be justified. Hence, it is

 held that decision of management no.1 in transferring of the ownership of I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 41 of 50 Printing Undertaking to management no.2 is not bonafide to protect the

 interest of workmen. 66. Findings on issue no.4

 Issue no.4 is Whether there was any refusal on the part of

 individual workman to the said transfer of ownership from HTL to

 HTML? OPM 67. It is the case of both the managements in their written statements

 that management no.2 had made their own arrangement for printing work

 and thus, they did not require the services of workmen, engaged in

 printing undertaking of management no.1. Since, management no.2 itself

 had refused to take the services of workmen, they cannot be allowed to

 blow hot and cold in the same breath and cannot take the plea that it is the

 workmen, who refused to join management no.2. It is worth noting that

 workmen, during their evidence have given their willingness to join

 management no.2 even at this stage. Thus, there is no refusal on the part of

 individual workman to the said transfer of ownership from HTL to HTML.

 This issue is decided accordingly. 68. Findings on issue no. 5

 Issue no.5 is Whether management no.1 duly communicated the

 workmen about the transfer of printing undertaking to management no.2, I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 42 of 50 if not , its consequences? OPM 69. In conciliation proceedings before labour department,

 management took the stand that printing undertaking has been transferred

 to management no.2. Public Notice has also been given to this effect.

 Therefore, workmen became automatically aware of the fact of transfer of

 printing undertaking to management no.2. Thus, it is held that

 management no.1 duly communicated the workmen about the transfer of

 printing undertaking to management no.2. This issue is decided

 accordingly. 70. Findings on issue no. 6

 Issue no.6 is Whether termination/ retrenchment of the workmen

 is in terms of relevant provisions of the ID Act i.e. Chapter 5B of the Act? 71. Section 10(4) of Industrial Disputes Act, provides as below: 72. In Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. and Workmen and

 others, 1969, AIR SC 243, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as follows:- 73. This Industrial Tribunal can take judicial notice of the judgment

 of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Bhupat Singh and others Vs. Hindustan

 Times Ltd. , decided on 9.5.06 in writ petitions no.2961 to 2963 of 2005.

 In those cases, the reference order of the present case was challenged

 and two points were considered: (1) Whether exclusion of 47 workmen

 from the reference is illegal? and (2) Whether exclusion of question

 related to illegal lock-out in the reference is illegal? 74. The Hon'ble High Court (Coram: His Lordship Hon'ble Mr.

 Justice Sh. S. Ravinder Bhatt) dismissed the petition under Article 226 of

 Constitution of India and observed as follows:- 75. In view of above observations of Hon'ble High Court, I am of

 the considered view that issue of termination/retrenchment of workmen in

 terms of relevant provisions of I.D. Act i.e. Chapter 5 B of the Act does

 not arise and is outside the purview of Section 10(4) of Industrial Disputes

 Act. This issue is answered accordingly. 76. Findings on issue no.7

 Issue no.7 is Whether the workman are bound by the unauthorised

 statement of the office bearer of the Union that workmen will not comply

 the order of transfer? OPM 77. It is a general rule that nobody can be bound by any unauthorised

 statement of any one. Therefore, workmen cannot be bound by the

 unauthorised statement of the office bearer of the Union. Moreover, this I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 45 of 50 issue has lost its relevance keeping in view the fact that management no.2

 has refused to take the services of workmen. This issue is decided

 accordingly. 78. Findings on issue no.8

 Issue no.8 is Whether references are legally incompetent? (OPM).

 Whether 315 workmen named in Annexure A have taken their full and

 final settlement. Whether the claim statement has been filed by competent

 person having locus standi? OPW 79. It is worth noting that no proof has been shown by management

 that the reference is legally incompetent or that 315 workmen have taken

 their full and final settlement. However, during arguments, it is agreed for

 workmen that 43 workmen have settled their disputes with management. It

 is directed that workmen will file before Labour Department/ other

 competent authority concerned with execution of award, names of 43

 workmen, within one month of the date of enforcement of award, who

 have so settled their disputes and same will be binding under Section

 18(1) of Industrial Disputes Act. Present dispute remains regarding

 272 workmen. 80. Further, statement of claim filed, whether by one or two persons I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 46 of 50 on behalf of workmen will be treated to have been filed legally and no

 fault can be found in this regard, except when objection is raised in this

 regard on behalf of workmen. Since, no objection has been raised by

 workmen in this regard, it is held that claim statement has been filed by

 competent persons having locus standi. Issue no.8 is decided accordingly. 81. Findings on additional issue no.1 and 2 framed on 07.08.09

 Additional issue no.1 is : Whether any employer-employee

 relationship has ever existed between the claimants and the

 Management no.2? OPW. Additional issue no.2 is : Whether the

 claimants can claim any relief from the management no.2? OPW 82. It is the case of both the parties that workmen are employees

 management no.1 and not of management no.2. Thus, there is no

 question of workmen claiming relief from management no.2. 83. They cannot claim retrenchment compensation or re-

 employment from management no.2. Management no.1 has invoked

 Section 25 FF of Industrial Disputes Act. Section 25 H of ID Act is

 not applicable in this case as there is no retrenchment as defined under Section 2(oo) of Industrial Disputes Act. Hence, workmen can not

 seek relief from management no.2. Additional issues no.1 and 2 are

 decided accordingly. I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 47 of 50 84. Findings on additional issue no. 3 framed on 07.08.09

 Additional issue no.3 is : Whether the Hindustan Times

 Employees Union represents the interest of the employees of the

 Management No.2 and is entitled to raise an industrial dispute against

 them? OPW 85. As decided above, the workmen are employees of management

 no.1. Therefore, this issue is not relevant for the present purpose and has

 lost its significance. However, it is clarified that the said Union may

 represent interest of employees of management no.2, if they are member

 of the said Union. This issue is decided accordingly. 86. Findings on Issue no.9:- 87. In view of my findings on issue no.1, it is held that action of I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 48 of 50 management of M/s Hindustan Times Ltd. in transferring the ownership of

 its Printing undertaking to M/s H.T. Media Ltd. w.e.f. 02.10.04 and

 terminating the services of workmen whose names are given in Annexure

 A by invoking the provisions of Section 25FF of Industrial disputes Act

 1947 is illegal and unjustified. 88. This Tribunal can take judicial notice of the following

 observations of Hon'ble Delhi High Court (Coram: His Lordship Hon'ble

 Mr. Justice Sh. S. Ravinder Bhatt) made in its order dated 9.5.06 in case of Bhupat Singh and Others Vs. Hindustan Times Ltd. (supra), involving

 reference of the present case :- (Equivalent citation: Anakapalla Co-operative Agricultural
 and Industrial Society Ltd. Vs. Workmen AIR 1963 SC
 1489). 89. In view of above factual and legal position of law,

 workmen/ claimants (except 43 workmen/ claimants, who have settled I.D. No. 207/10/05 Page 49 of 50 their disputes u/s 18(1) of I.D. Act) are entitled to the relief of treating

 them in continuity of service under terms and conditions of service as

 before their alleged termination w.e.f. 3.10.04. They will not be

 entitled to any notice pay or compensation u/s 25 FF of Industrial

 Disputes Act. The said notice pay or compensation, if any, received by

 them, will have to be refunded by them. 90. Hence, by way of relief, it is directed that management of

 M/s Hindustan Times Ltd. will reinstate 272 workmen treating them in

 continuity of service under terms and conditions of service as before

 their alleged termination i.e. 03.10.04. Award is passed accordingly. 91. Copy of the award be sent to GNCT of Delhi for publication.

 File be consigned to Record Room.