The petitioner - Vishesh Wadhwa has filed the instant petition

under Section 439 Cr.P.C. for grant of regular bail in FIR No.20, dated

29.01.2022 under Sections 354-D , 506 IPC and 376 (2) (n) and Section 67 Information and Technology Act, 2000 (added later on) registered at

Police Station Bajghera, District Gurugram. The facts of the case are that the complainant Ritika Gachli gave

her statement to the police that her sister is working in Qatar Airlines and

is living in Doha permanently. She came to India during pandemic and met

Vishesh Wadhwa in 2021 and then they started dating. After few months,

he started blackmailing her, stalking her and even beaten her. He made an

intimate video of her while they were in relationship and he started

blackmailing her. Her sister did not want to stay with Vishesh Wadhwa but

he blackmailed her by saying that he would post the video on porn

 1 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 14-01-2023 03:55:24 ::: CRM-M-54265-2022 -2- website. He also started blackmailing to the complainant, her brother and

mother. He blackmailed that he will spoil their lives in the society. Her

sister was talking to him under pressure. He was continuously threatening

to put those videos on social website. Ultimately, the present matter was

reported to the police and the present FIR has been registered. Learned counsel for the petitioner argued that all the allegations

levelled against him are false. There is delay in lodging the FIR. The

prosecutrix refused for her medical examination. The statement of

prosecutrix is already recorded, where she admitted that it was the

consensual physical relationship. The copy of the statement is Annexure P- 2. There is no objectionable video or photograph. The prosecutrix

continued with the relationship even after 01.08.2021. Counsel for the

petitioner has placed on record the booking of hotel, travelling record as

well as screenshots of the video which are Annexure P-4 to P-11. During

this period they stayed in different hotels. The allegations are false.

Moreover, he is ready to face the trial. It is prayed that his regular bail

application may be allowed. The bail application is opposed by learned counsel representing

the State and also filed status report. It is argued that there are specific

serious allegations of rape and blackmailing the prosecutrix. After

completion of investigation, the challan was presented in Court and the

charge-sheet has been framed on 11.05.2022. Till date, six prosecution

witnesses have been examined and the case is pending for remaining

evidence. Along with status report, the statement of the victim recorded

under Section 164 Cr.P.C. as well as the report of Cyber Lab DITAC CID,

Gurugram are also placed on record. It is argued that considering the

 2 of 3 ::: Downloaded on - 14-01-2023 03:55:24 ::: CRM-M-54265-2022 -3- gravity of offence, the petitioner is not entitled to be released on bail. I have considered the arguments advanced before me and I have

gone through the record carefully. As per the status report produced on

file, the challan is already presented and after framing of charge-sheet, the

case is fixed for prosecution evidence. At the time of filing of status report,

six prosecution witnesses have already been examined. It is also matter of

record that the statement of prosecutrix is also recorded in the Court as

PW-5, which is Annexure P-2. Therefore, the vulnerable witness i.e. the

prosecutrix is already examined. The statement of complainant as PW6 is

also recorded which is Annexure P-3. There is record relied upon by the

petitioner to establish that both of them were travelling to different places

and staying together. The said record can be considered at the appropriate

stage. Considering the aforesaid factual position, I find merits in the

regular bail application filed by the petitioner - Vishesh Wadhwa and the

same is, accordingly, allowed. He is ordered to be released on bail to the

satisfaction of trial Court/Duty Judge. The petition is disposed of.