The Supreme Court extended interim bail for Ashoka University professor Ali Khan Mahmudabad as the court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT) investigated the matter.

The court also affirmed that Mahmudabad was still barred from publishing social media posts regarding the cases under investigation, despite requests from the professor’s lawyer.

Senior Advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Mahmudabad, asked the judges to amend their previous order. He argued that his client was unlikely to make any posts related to the case.

“It need not be said. I’m saying, these are mature people, people who teach at universities, and an Oxford graduate…The petitioner knows where he has landed himself; he knows what is interim [bail],” he said.

However, the court stated that the restrictions were limited only to posts regarding the subject matter of the investigation.

“It is only subject to the subject matter of investigation. That’s all, he can write the rest of the thing…We don’t want a parallel media trial running on this issue…He is free to write. There is no impediment on his right to speech,” said the court.

The court also limited the scope of the SIT investigation to the two FIRs that were filed against the professor.

Sibal expressed concerns that the SIT’s formation might become an opportunity to open different investigations into Mahmudabad.

Additionally, the court blocked the Haryana government’s request to gain access to Mahmudabad’s devices. “Don’t try to go and expand the scope of this project. This matter is only confined to the two FIRs. Whenever you find out the contents of those FIRs, the SIT is free to form an opinion. But don’t go into that left and right,” said the judge. In addition, the court also instructed the state government to respond to the National Human Rights Commission, which had taken cognisance of Mahmudabad’s arrest.

The Haryana Police had arrested Mahmudabad on May 18, over two social media posts commenting on Operation Sindoor. In a previous hearing , Sibal had argued that the professor’s posts were actually “patriotic” and merely criticised warmongering.

While granting interim bail, the apex court ordered the formation of an SIT to analyse Mahmudabad’s posts and infer their meaning.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event