The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has released state-wise statistics for Unified Payments Interface (UPI) transactions for the first time, with Maharashtra topping the charts every month in the first quarter of the 2025-26 financial year. Notably, the data has been published based on information shared by various UPI apps.

Maharashtra recorded 6.58 billion UPI transactions from April to June this year, with Karnataka, registering 3.7 billion transactions in the same period taking second place.

The only north Indian state in the top five was Uttar Pradesh (UP), which recorded 3.58 billion transactions between April and June.

Telangana and Tamil Nadu complete the list of the top five states, with 2.77 billion and 2.33 billion transactions respectively in the first quarter of FY2025-26.

The statistics released by NPCI reveal a clear trend: four of the five states in the top five list have large, urban, metropolitan cities as their capitals.

For instance:

UP, which ranks third, is India’s most populous state and includes Noida—a prominent business hub within the Delhi-NCR region.

In June 2025, Maharashtra accounted for 9.47% of all UPI transactions in the country—the highest share—while Karnataka, in second place, recorded 5.44% during the same period.

These figures suggest that unless trends shift, the dominance of these two states is likely to continue in the domestic UPI landscape, even as the payments system expands globally.

UPI has overtaken Visa to become the world’s most popular real-time payments system, logging more than 650 million transactions daily.

NITI Aayog’s former CEO, Amitabh Kant, posted about this global achievement on X (formerly Twitter). He wrote: “Achieving this in just 9 years highlights its (UPI’s) unmatched scale and momentum. From India to the world, UPI is leading the digital payment revolution!”

UPI surpasses Visa to become the world's leading real-time payment system, processing over 650 million transactions daily. Achieving this in just 9 years highlights its unmatched scale and momentum. From India to the world, UPI is leading the digital payment revolution! https://t.co/Gsf6iVyr6m

According to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) 2024-25 Annual Report , UPI accounted for 84% of all transactions processed within India’s retail payment systems.

India’s central bank also emphasised on its goal of expanding UPI services to 20 countries by 2028-29, in addition to increasing the footprint of UPI and RuPay cards.

Currently, UPI services are operational in seven countries, including France, Singapore, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Namibia is set to become the first African nation to adopt UPI services later this year.

This development comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to the country. PM Modi’s meeting with Namibian President Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah focused on strengthening bilateral cooperation in digital technology and other sectors. Notably, the Bank of Namibia signed a UPI technology licensing agreement with NPCI in April last year.

Therefore, one thing is amply clear: UPI is poised for further growth, if current trends and data are anything to go by. It has already left behind Visa-driven payments to become the leading payments system globally. And one should expect it to grow even more exponentially as the Indian diaspora, and even foreign nationals, increasingly turn to NPCI’s payments facilitator to make their lives easier.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event