". 34. For the reasons mentioned in the interlocutory

application, I. A. No. 1592 of 2017 is, hereby, allowed. Let,

what has been quoted above be treated to have been

substituted in place of statement made in paragraph 31 of the

writ application. 35. The facts, which have been averred in the writ

application, have not been disputed in the counter affidavit

filed on behalf of the Board. 36. It has broadly been argued on behalf of the

petitioner that Regulation 3 (3) of the Regulations lays down

the minimum essential conditions for affiliation in terms of

infrastructure (building, furniture etc.). Proviso to sub-

Regulation (3) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations empowers

the Board to relax the aforesaid conditions in case of non-

availability of schools in particular area or place. The

Committee has the powers to relax the said condition of

affiliation in case of women‟s institutions also. Further, proviso

to sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations states

that those Secondary/Higher Secondary (+2 College) affiliated

with the Board in case of not fulfilling the standards, specified

in Regulation 3 of these Regulations, shall have to fulfill the

specified standards within 3 years, essentially. It is also the

case of the petitioner that the Board, while granting affiliation

to the school had relaxed conditions because of non- 45 availability of school in the area. It has further been argued

that, as per Clause (a) of sub- Regulation 4 of Regulation 3 of

the Regulations, a Senior Secondary School should be

provided within 5 kilometers of every habitation. The State

has failed to provide school in the said area to implement

Clause (a) of sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the

Regulations. It has been stated in paragraph 24 of the writ

application that the schools, located in the vicinity of the

petitioner‟s school, which are aided government schools, have

inferior infrastructure than the petitioner‟s school, even with

less teachers. Examples have been given, referring to the

schools, namely, (i) Shahid Senior Secondary School, which is

operating in only 2 rooms, (ii) Haranchand Uchch Madhyamik

Vidyalaya, having around 1000 students, is operating out of

poor infrastructure and (iii) Gautam Budh Mahila Senior

Secondary School has similar infrastructure and teacher

issues. 37. Though counter affidavits have been filed on

behalf of the Board and the State of Bihar, these specific

averments have not been controverted. Such statements,

thus, stand admitted, applying the doctrine of non-traverse. 38. It has also been argued on behalf of the

petitioner that the Board does not have any power of

suspension of affiliation granted to the school. In the event, it 46 is found that the school does not fulfill essential conditions for

affiliation, as specified in sub-Regulation (3) of Regulation 3 of

the Regulations, such school ought to have been granted 3

years time to fulfill the conditions as contemplated under the

proviso to sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the

Regulations. The school ought to have been given adequate

opportunity for removal of the deficiencies, as pointed out in

the inspection report, instead of proceeding to cancel the

affiliation itself, the petitioners contend. 39. Mr. Abhay Kumar Singh, learned Senior Counsel,

appearing on behalf of a group of writ-petitioners, has further

argued that there is a significant shift in the provisions, in

relation to the consideration of applications for affiliation of

schools from, as they existed in Bihar School Examination

Board (Senior Secondary) Affiliation Bye-Laws, 2011 (in short

„Bye-laws of 2011‟), to those available in the Regulations

framed in 2013, which have replaced the Bye-Laws. As per

the earlier procedure, Clause (4) of Article 14 of the Bye-laws

of 2011 required that in case, on scrutiny of application it was

found that the school did not fulfill the minimum conditions,

the School would be informed accordingly, and no further

action would be required to be taken by the Board till the

essential conditions were fulfilled, to the satisfaction of the

Board. The said Bye-laws of 2011 have been replaced by 47 statutory Regulations, i.e., Bihar School Examination Board

(Senior Secondary) Affiliation Regulations, 2013. Sub-

Regulation (4) of Regulation 14 of the Regulations prescribes

that after scrutiny of the application, if it is found that the

school does not fulfill the minimum conditions, then, before

appointment of Enquiry Committee, it shall be placed before

the Committee for appropriate decision. He, accordingly,

contends that the shift is meaningful and significant and it has

definite purpose to achieve by considering even applications of

even such schools, which do not fulfill the essential conditions

of affiliation as strictly prescribed under Regulation 3 of the

Regulations. There is corresponding change, according to him,

in sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations by

incorporating a proviso, which reads, "provided that those

Secondary/High Secondary (+2 College) affiliated with Bihar

School Examination Board in case of „not fulfilling the

standards specified in Regulation 3 of these Regulations, 2011

shall have to fulfill the specified standards within 3 years

essentially". He has submitted that slight change in Regulation

14 , as noted above, read with proviso to sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations, suggests that the State

Government of Bihar and the Board intended that affiliation

can be granted affiliation even to such schools which failed to

strictly fulfill the conditions of requirement, laid down in sub- 48 Regulation (3) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations. He has

submitted that since the State of Bihar, on the basis of its own

resources, was failing to implement Right to Education Act

accomplish the statutory goal by providing educational

institutions, as per the requirements of the Right to Education

Act, in remote areas, the State Government and the Board

appear to have taken this conscious decision to relax the

essential requirements, so that private educational institutions

can be granted recognition and affiliation, even if they failed to

satisfy strictly the essential requirements of affiliation. He has

argued that in the present scenario, the relationship between

the State and the private schools, in the matter of imparting

education up-to Secondary and Senior Secondary level, should

be symbiotic in nature. He has submitted that approach of the

regulator of education, which the Board is, must be of

facilitator, enabler and not of an obstructionist. The Regulation 3 (3) (c) and Regulation 15 (3) (iv) of the

Regulations, if conjointly read, are in tune with the said

constitutional approach of role of regulator of education, he

contends. 40. Mr. Singh, learned Senior Counsel, has also

invoked the Rule in Hydon's case (Mischief Rule) to contend

that new provisions, i.e., proviso to sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations and change in sub-Regulation 49 (4) of Regulation 14 of the Regulations had definite purpose,

which is to suppress the mischief and to advance the remedy

by allowing relaxation. 41. Mr. Lalit Kishore, learned Senior Counsel,

appearing on behalf of the Board, on the other hand, has

submitted that the erstwhile Chairman of the Board had acted

in brazen disregard to mandatory statutory provisions and had

granted or was instrumental in granting affiliations to various

schools, which were not fulfilling the basic essential

requirements. According to him, the grant of affiliation to the

schools, in question, by the Board itself was a result of fraud

played by the previous team, with the help of the officers of

the Board, who worked in tandem, which has been detected

by an efficient Chairman of the Board, who is presently

functioning. He has submitted that grant of affiliation to such

schools were void ab initio and, therefore, the action does not

require interference by this court under equitable writ

jurisdiction. He has relied on Supreme Court‟s decision in case

of Rohilkhand Medical College & Hospital Vs. Medical

Council of India and Another , reported in 2013 (15) SCC

516, to submit that fraud vitiates all acts and since it is

apparent from the report that these schools had

misrepresented by furnishing incorrect facts, on the basis of

which they had been granted affiliation, the Court should 50 refuse to interfere with the impugned action of the Board. 42. To appreciate the submission made on behalf of

the petitioner invoking mischief rule (Heyden‟s Rule), it would

be apposite to take note of the relevant provisions under

Clause 14 of the Bye-Laws of 2011 and corresponding

provision under Regulation 14 of the Regulations of 2013

which replaced the Bye-Laws. Clause 14 of the Bye-Laws dealt

with submission of application for affiliation and follow up

action. Sub-Clause (3) and (4) of Clause 14 read thus:- 43. Regulation (14) of the Regulations of 2013 also

deals with submission of application for affiliation and follow

up action. Sub-clause (3) and (4) of Regulation 14 , which has 51 already been quoted above is being reproduced herein below

for immediate comparison between earlier provision and the

present one:- Regulation (3) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations, which reads

thus:- particular area or place. The affiliation
 committee shall have powers to relax the
 condition of affiliation in case of women‟s
 institutions." 45. This provision was not there in the Bye-Laws of

2011. The proviso, thus, enables the Board to relax conditions

of affiliation in case of non-availability of schools in the area.

The Committee has, thus, now, been given power to relax the

condition of affiliation in case of women‟s institution. The shift

is apparent and significant, which cannot be overlooked. 46. The change in approach, while dealing with

matters of grant of affiliation, is also manifested with

incorporation of another proviso to Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the Regulations, which reads as follows:- This provision was also not there in the Bye-Laws. 47. In reply to a query made by this court, as to

under which provision of the Act or Regulations, the Board

could suspend the affiliations granted to these schools, Mr.

Lalit Kishore, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of

the Board, has submitted that such power is inherent with the

Board. It is his contention that since the Board has power to

grant affiliation, it has inherent power to suspend affiliation. 53 48. Upon comparing the provisions in the Bye-Laws

and the provisions incorporated in the Regulations

subsequently, as noticed above, it is manifest that the State

Government and the Board intended to allow relaxation to

such institutions, which were not fulfilling strictly the

conditions laid down for affiliation under Regulation 3 of the

Regulations. Merely on the basis, therefore, that institutions

did not fulfill the conditions, the respondents ought not to

have cancelled the affiliation without allowing the institutions

to fulfill the specified standards within a reasonable time. 49. Mr. Singh, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on

behalf of the petitioners, has rightly submitted, invoking the

mischief rule that subsequent changes were made by way of

Regulations in order to suppress the mischief since there

existed mischief in the form of absence of any provision for

grant of relaxation in the conditions of affiliation. There is no

denial on behalf of the State of Bihar that it has failed to

achieve so far, its goal to provide senior secondary schools, as

contemplated in sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the

Regulations. 50. In my view, the statutory function of withdrawal

or cancellation of affiliation can be exercised by statutory

authority in accordance with the provisions of a Statute,

keeping in mind the entire scheme of statutory provisions. A 54 plea that previous incumbent to the post of Chairman indulged

in irregularities etc., per se, cannot be the basis for taking any

such action of cancellation of affiliations granted by the Board

during previous regime, which too had exercised statutory

functions. 51. The decision of the Supreme Court, in the case of Rohilkhand Medical College & Hospital (supra), does not

apply in the present case as in that case , there were

allegations of use of fake and forged materials to get sanction

for intake of students. In that background, the Supreme Court

had allowed the Medical Council of India to take action under Regulation 8(3)(1) (d) of the Regulations for establishment of

Medical College Regulations, 1999, without waiting for the

charge sheet to be filed by the C.B.I. The said provision, under Regulation 8(3)(1) (d) of the Regulations of 1999, requires the

Medical Council of India not to consider renewal of

permission/recommendation for award of M.B.B.S.

degree/processing the application for post-graduate courses

for two academic years, if the institute is found to have

employed teachers on the basis of fake/forged documents. The

said decision of the Supreme Court, in my view, cannot be

made the basis to allow the Board, cancel affiliation in the

manner it has been done. 52. On the basis of what has been noted above, it is 55 apparent that the Board overlooked the proviso to sub-

Regulation (3) and sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the

Regulations while taking impugned decision. The impugned

actions of the Board in cancelling/withdrawing affiliations of

the petitioner schools stand vitiated for the said reason also. 53. On the basis of discussion, as above, I conclude

as follows:- 54. Consequently, the orders impugned in the

present batch of writ applications withdrawing affiliations of

the respective schools/colleges are hereby set aside. 55. In the present batch of cases, the affidavits have

been filed on behalf of the petitioners giving an undertaking

that they shall remove all the deficiencies and fulfill the

conditions of affiliations within different periods of time

mentioned therein. The Court expects the Board to consider

individual cases of the schools and if it is found permissible,

allow them time to remove such deficiencies in terms of

proviso to sub-Regulation (4) of Regulation 3 of the

Regulations. The Board, for the said purpose, will be required

to undertake the exercise afresh to ascertain whether these

schools fulfill conditions of affiliation or are in a position to

overcome the deficiencies. A positive and constructive

approach, if taken by the Board, may have good results in

larger public interest. The Board, while taking any decision,

must keep in mind whether Government schools and

Government aided schools do have the infrastructure and

teaching facilities to meet the standards of conditions for

affiliation. 56. Before I part with, I must take note of the third

proviso to Section 10C of the Act, which states, inter alia, that

before withdrawing affiliation, the students admitted in such 57 schools or institutions shall be allowed to complete their

 academic sessions and appear at the next examination

 conducted by the Board. I direct the Board not to overlook the

 said provisions in any case. The language of third proviso to Section 10C of the Act is enough indication that the Board

 does not have power to suspend, with immediate effect,

 affiliation of a school and the said power cannot be said to be

 inherent in the Board. 57. These applications are allowed accordingly with

 the observations as above. 58. In the facts and circumstances, there shall be no

 order as to costs. 59. Let the original records produced by the Board be

 returned to Mr. Satyabir Bharti, learned Counsel for the Board.