Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupt
absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men, even when they
exercise influence and not authority: still more when you superadd the
tendency or the certainty of corruption by authority. [Lord Action, in a
letter to Mandell Creighton (5 April 1887), published in Historical Essays
and Studies (1907)] C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -2- ***

 Power expands through the distribution of secrecy. (David
Johan Moore Cornwell (John Le Carre) (from an interview by Pip Ayers in
Live magazine, the Mail on Sunday, July 10, 2011)
 It is not possible to found a lasting power upon injustice,
perjury and treachery. (Demosthenes, reported in Josiah Hotchkiss
Gilbert, Dictionary of Burning Words of Brilliant Writers (1895), p. 455.)
 All power corrupts, absolute power is even more fun.
[Simon Travaglia, The Operator from Hell Part 2 (1997)]. Power corrupts, Power Point corrupts absolutely. [Ed
Tufte, Wired, issue 11:09 (September 2003)]. Though disuse of power by the powerful lowers the majesty of
the office and sometimes makes the very office redundant, but misuse and
abuse of power leads to corruption and chaos. The judicial prudence
requires the balance between the justice and power. Corruption and justice
cannot dwell together. Corruption at high places has become fashion of the day. Any
defalcation, embezzlement, misappropriation or corruption, if committed by
an individual functionary, the same could be detected due to the availability
of the evidence, but in cases where the Administrators, who are the part
and parcel of the governing body themselves indulge in illegal distribution
of the State assets, the problem to detect such scam aggravates. It was the
press, media and the social activists who highlighted such modalities and
helped to bring the scandal to the fore. The present case is also an example
where the people at the helm of affairs of the Notified Area Committee,
Manimajra connected one way or the other with the Notified Area
Committee distributed 12 commercial sites amongst themselves while
throwing all the norms and rules relating to the sale of the property to the
winds and by concealing the same from the general public. The said scam
was published as a news item in February, 1982 under the heading: "U.T.
Officials grab land in Manimajra" indicating that the misappropriation of
show rooms of the size of 17' - 3" x 31.6' for a sum of Rs.30,000/- per C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -3- ***

commercial site, which invited the petitioner Dev Singh to file writ
petition No.3271 of 1982. Prior to this writ petition one Om Parkash had
also filed a Civil Suit No. 2171 of 1982 titled as Om Parkash v. Union
Territory of Chandigarh and others , which was later on withdrawn by him. The facts in the background of the case are that Notified Area
Committee, Manimajra (herein referred as, 'the Committee') was
constituted under Section 241 of the Punjab Municipal Act w.e.f. 19.4.1976
with all nominated members - 6 officials and 5 non official. Sh. P.P.
Sawhney (respondent No.16), the then Land Acquisition Officer,
Chandigarh Administration was made its first President. However, Hoshiar
Singh and Joginder Singh Walia were the President and Secretary of the
Committee respectively at the time when the plots in question were allotted
i.e. on 2.7.1979. Apprehending a haphazard construction within the jurisdiction
of Notified Area Committee, it passed a resolution on 24.1.1978 for
acquiring the land for setting up the commercial as well as residential
sectors in the area. Notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition
Act was published on 2.1.1979. The Chief Architect wrote to the President
of the Committee on 24.4.1979 for demarcation the ground to check the
feasibility of the site and communicated that the lay out plan for the
residential colony on the Eastern side of Chandigarh- Kalka road had been
prepared. The petitioner has averred that he has been handed over lay out
plan by Shri J.S.Walia, the then Secretary of the Notified Area Committee,
whose sons are successful allottees and impleaded as respondent Nos.3 & 4.
The said lay out plan is Annexed P-2 said to be drawing No.14, Job No.77
dated 27.04.1979. The said lay out plan does not bear the signatures of the
officials involved in the preparation of the same, but is recited as signed i.e.
Sd/-. There is another lay out plan appended with the written statement of
respondent No.5, as Annexure R-5/3. The said lay out plan carries the
impressions of signatures of the officials. The inference is that the
photocopy produced by the respondents is from the original, whereas the
copy produced by the petitioner is from the copy. Both are materially C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -4- ***

different. The description of the plots carved out in such plans is as under: Learned Amicus Curiae appointed for the petitioner has argued
that there is interpolation in the plan and in fact the original lay out plan
was for 67 commercial plots, but later on additional plots were carved out
from the area reserved for parking and assigned numbers with suffix "P".
Such 12 commercial sites, measuring 17'- 3" x 31.6', are the subject of
controversy in the present petition. These 12 sites were marked as 815A,
815B, 815C, 815D, 830A, 830B, 830C, 830D, 855A, 855B, 855C and
855D in the layout plan and these sites were carved out in the area left out
for parking. The Committee vide alleged resolution No.4 dated 28.4.1979,
resolved to sell the residential plots at the rate of Rs.500/- per square yard.
The resolution was signed by the Secretary on 3.5.1979. The President vide
letter dated 5.5.1979, had also approved the scheme for sale of 79
commercial sites in addition to the 242 residential plots with the condition
that 50% sites would be reserved for the following categories :- The aforesaid resolution was approved by the Deputy
Commissioner subject to the condition that there will be no reservation
except 5% reservation each for Scheduled Caste, Backward Class and
serving/Ex-servicemen from the defence forces vide letter Memo No.
DC/DA-79/10651 dated 29.5.1979. Before this letter reached the office of
the Committee, the Secretary/ President of the Committee without getting
approved the notice from the Committee or the competent authority for
issuing advertisement for sale of the commercial and residential sites, wrote
a letter to the Tribune directing to publish advertisement in the newspaper
of 7.6.1979. The last date for the receipt of the applications was fixed as
16.6.1979. The notice was published under the signatures of Hoshiar
Singh, President of the Committee, in the small column of The Tribune
(English), Chandigarh on 7.6.1979, it is reproduced as under :- The said notice was published on 7.6.1979. Pursuant to this
short notice, only 12 applications were received against the aforesaid
twelve commercial sites, situated at strategic junction of Manimajra and
Panchkula on the East of Chandigarh Kalka Road. Mr. J.S. Walia,
Secretary of the Committee allotted these plots on the reserve price either
to his own kiths and kins, or to the relatives of the Town Planner or other
officers directly or indirectly connected with the Committee. The details of
the sales and the connections of the purchasers are reproduced as under :- The patent illegalities came to notice of the Chief
Commissioner, Chandigarh when he was on his visit to Manimajra Town
on 6.9.1982. He directed enquiry to be held by the Vigilance Cell, U.T.
Chandigarh. Consequently, enquiry was held by Bhagwan Dass, Inspector
Vigilance Cell, U.T. Chandigarh. The enquiry report was submitted before
this Court on 22.08.1985, when the counsel for the Union Territory was
directed to take a final decision in the matter. Thereafter, the U.T.
Administration dismissed Mr. J.S. Walia from service. However, regarding
the other officials, it was reported that either they had been repatriated to
their respective departments or retired, therefore, they had written to their
departments for proceeding against them accordingly. Since some of the allottees had already transferred the show
rooms, therefore, this court vide order dated 6.2.2008 directed the
petitioner to serve the allottees as well as their transferees, or legal
representatives or their family members (effected persons). The relevant
extract of he order dated 6.2.2008 is reproduced as under :- On 20.02.2008, this Court directed to publish a Public Notice
by the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh in at least two daily newspapers
including the one in vernacular language with a view to inform all the
allottees, their transferees and/or their tenants. Thereafter, the notices have
been published in 'The Tribune' and 'Dainik Bhaskar' on 09.03.2008.
Though Vidyawati Sofat and Suresh Sofat have not been impleaded as a
party, yet some allottees have put in appearance after the public notice was
published. Therefore, all the allottees, occupiers and tenants are deemed to
have been granted opportunity to contest the present suit. The petitioner
appeared before this Court on 10.05.2011 and stated that he is unable to
engage a counsel now. Mr. Jaskirat Singh Sidhu, Advocate, was appointed
as amicus curiae to assist this Court on behalf of the petitioner considering
the fact that the issue involved in the writ petition is regarding illegal
allotment of plots. In these circumstances, the matter has come up before
us for final hearing. The Government also examined the allotments and found the
same to be in improper and consequently proceeded for cancellation
thereof. Mr. Abhishek Dev, IAS, Joint Secretary Home-cum-Joint
Secretary, Local Government, filed an affidavit stating that vide affidavit
dated 4.1.2010, furnished by the Joint Commissioner, Municipal
Corporation, Chandigarh, it was stated that action shall be taken for
cancellation of the allotments after affording opportunity of hearing to the
allottees. Thereafter, notice dated 30.3.2011 was issued. The said notices
were also challenged by some of the respondents in this writ petition itself
by way of Miscellaneous Applications. Respondents No.1 and 2 in their joint written statement have
admitted that the appointment of Mr. J.S. Walia as Secretary of the Notified
Area Committed, Manimajra was not in accordance with rules. He did not
meet the qualification as prescribed in the advertisement. It was also C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -10- ***

admitted that the Committee failed to give proper advertisement showing
the situation, size, number and rates of the plots at which the same were to
be sold/allotted and the terms and conditions on which the same were to be
sold. The advertisement which appeared in the newspaper "The Tribune
(English)" on 7.6.1979, indicated the last date for filing the applications
was 16.6.1979. Regarding the other advertisement dated 1.8.1979, it was
stated that the same was advertised despite the stay, restraining the
Committee from making any allotment and the two commercial sites were
allotted by the Committee on the basis of the bank draft dated 31.7.1979
even before the advertisement dated 1.8.1979 to Vidyawati Sofat and
Suresh Sofat i.e. wife and son of R.G. Sofat, resident of H.No.1046, Sector
8-C, Chandigarh. They also admitted that only 12 applications were
received against the 12 commercial sites and out of those applications, 8
applicants were the relatives or dependents or the officials of the
Chandigarh Administration and official members of the Committee and one
site was allotted to the relative of the senior officer of the Punjab
Government. Respondents No.3, 4, 7 and 12 did not file their written
statement. It is noticed that the respondents No.6, 8 and 13 (Out of them
respondent No.8 has already expired and his legal heirs have been
impleaded as respondents) and have contested the petition. The
respondents No.7, 9 and 16 also filed separate written statement. The
respondent No.9 had died and he was substituted by respondents No.18 to
20 being his legal heirs. The respondents No.21 to 24 are the transferees.
All the respondents have virtually raised similar points and they denied the
allegations as set out in the petition. The transferees have set up the plea that they are the bona-fide
transferees of the plots and the transfers were made in their favour with the
permission of the Committee. The petitioners as well as the U.T.
Administration had been witnessing the construction raised over the plots
and they did not proceed against them, therefore, the administration is
estopped to take any such action. No definite procedure was in operation at C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -11- ***

that time. The only procedure in general was that the Committee was to
show his intention by way of public notice that some plots were available.
The mode of transfer was by way of allotment or auction. Since the
number of the applicants were equal to the number of plots, therefore, the
question of auction did not arise. The allottees or their legal representatives furnished almost
identical replies and stated that the allegations are not correct. The proper
procedure before the allotment of sites was followed. It is asserted that
neither they are authors of the site plan nor they ever distorted or got
distorted the same through any official. It was also averred that several
modifications were incorporated and omissions made by the petitioner in
the layout plan to support his case. The respondent No.2 namely, the
President of the Committee who on his own as well as on behalf of the
Government i.e. Respondent No.1 has admitted the correctness of the lay
out plan in their affidavits, therefore, the petitioner may be put to strict
proof to prove the correctness of the lay out plan over which he wants to
rely. It was further asserted that the intending purchasers were fully aware
of the number of plots available including 12 mini show rooms in question.
The respondents are not in any way related to the officers/officials of the
Committee or the Chandigarh Administration. It was further asserted that
till the year 1979, whosoever applied for allotment of the shop/office/show
room, he was allotted the same and the lesser number of applicants were
available as compared to the number of plots available. It was asserted that
now the things have been changed as many of the respondents have already
transferred, rented out the show rooms after raising construction and these
have changed various hands. Now to disturb them at this stage would
amount to unsettling them which may result into serious loss, prejudice and
damage. The first contention raised by the learned counsel for the
respondents is that the petitioner even did not apply for any commercial
site, therefore, he has no locus standi and the cause of action to file the writ
petition, consequently, the same is bound to fail on this sole ground. ***

 Having pondered over the marathon contentions raised on the
point, we do not find ourselves convinced with the same. The main points
raised in this writ petition are that the commercial sites were sold for
nominal price after carving out later; the said sites were kept away from the
public notice; that no wide publicity was given in connection with the
allotment and the same were not sold in open auction. As a matter of fact,
two types of the commercial sites were floated by the Committee of the
sizes of 34'-6" x 75' and 35'-3" x 75'. For these plots, as per official record,
the margin money to be deposited along with the application was
Rs.15000/- whereas the margin money for the 12 small commercial booth
of the size of 31'-6" x 17'-3" was only Rs.3000/-. As such, keeping in view
the difference between the margin money, it was possible for the customers
having low income to deposit this margin money. Had the due publicity
been given for the sale of such commercial sites then the petitioner could
have laid his hands to apply the same and become the prospective
purchaser. Not only the petitioner, many similarly situated people would
have preferred to apply for such sites. The issue regarding the 'locus standi' and the 'cause of action'
has attracted attention of the courts from time to time and broad change
has undergone in law relating to the "locus standi" and "cause of action" In Janata Dal v. H.S. Chaudhary , AIR 1993 SC 892, their Lordships
 gave meaning to the expression 'public interest litigation' with the
 following words :- In Chaitanya Kumar v. State of Karnataka , AIR 1986 SC 825, the Apex
 Court approved the entertaining of a writ petition at the instance of a
 third party involving a challenge to the grant of contract to bottle arrack
 and observed :- The principles for entertaining public interest litigation were
culled out in two Division Bench judgments delivered in cases Lawyers'
Initiative through Shri R.S. Bains, Advocate v. State of Punjab, 1995 (2)
ILR 279 and Ishwar Singh v. State of Haryana, 1995 (2) 110 PLR 613 : In the instant case, the challenge is to the flouting of the rules
and the procedure for sale of the public property and the fraud committed
by the respondents at the time of allotment of the prime property to make
unlawful enrichment to themselves and cause loss to the state exchequer.
Instead of throwing the public property in open auction so as to attract the
highest bid and to generate the revenue of the State, the property was
allotted by the President and the Secretary either to their relations or to the
relatives of Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh or other officers directly or
indirectly connected with the Committee. In the aforesaid judgments, the
Apex Court has held that the petitioners cannot be treated as busy body or
meddlesome interloper and went on to observe that the points raised by the
petitioner are of great public importance and the action of the respondents
is required to be tested on the touch stone of the judgment delivered by the
Court with regard to right of the Government to make nomination under
unconstitutional and illegal policy/instructions/guidelines, therefore, the
petitioner could not be non-suited on the ground that they did not have C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -16- ***

locus standi to challenge the nomination made by the State Government. In
the case of M.C. Mehta v. Union of India , 1992 (3) SCC 356 : 1996 (2)
RRR 592 (SC), the respondents had questioned the locus standi of the
petitioner to move to the court. While declining the objection, the Court
held that the action complained is of public interest affecting the health and
life of the citizens living in the area where the stone crushers are located
and as the official respondents had failed to perform the duties cast upon
them under the statute, the rules framed thereunder and the directions of the
Supreme Court, the petition was maintainable. In the light of aforesaid judgments, we are set to examine,
"whether the action of the respondents was mala fide and in deviation of
the settled principles of law for the sale of the public property?" The facts
which have been brought on record in the form of pleadings and the facts
which are reflected from the record produced by the petitioner as well as
the respondents No.1 and 2 show that by filing the petition, the petitioner
has espoused the cause of the public by bringing it to the notice of the court
that powerful and influential persons of the committee, with the connivance
of the officers sitting at their supervision, have grabbed the public property
on the basis of illegal allotments at a nominal prices. If prime land of these
commercial sites is allotted to them in an arbitrary manner and it is kept
away from the eyes of the public at large, then the public exchequer would
certainly suffer huge loss. The Full Bench of this Court in Anil Sabharwal
vs. State of Haryana , 1997 (3) R.C.R. (Civil) 260 has also elaborately
discussed the aforesaid judgments and had concluded that in case where the
larger public interest is involved and the settled principles of rules and
byelaws are said good bye by the public functionaries to enrich themselves,
then the writ petition could not be dismissed on the ground of lack of locus
standi. Admittedly, Notified Area Committee, Manimajra, came into
existence w.e.f. 19.4.1976 by a notification of the Chandigarh
Administration consisting of official and and non official members, Sh.P.P.
Sawhney- respondent No.16 (the then Land Acquisition Collector/Officer), C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -17- ***

was made the first President. The Notified Area was constituted in exercise
of powers conferred under Section 241 of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911
and in terms of Section 243 of the Act, the provisions of the Act are
applicable to the Notified Area Committee. In exercise of powers
conferred under Section 240(o) , the Lieutenant Governor has notified Rules
on 16.07.1918 in respect of General principles in the several Departments
of the Administration including Part II of Management of Municipal
Properties and of Provincial Properties. Though such Rule has been
amended by the Punjab Government on 16.09.1976, but the Rules in
existence prior to 01.11.1966 shall govern the Union Territory of
Chandigarh of which Notified Area Committee is the part. The relevant
extract from the Rules reads as under: The property vesting with the Notified Area Committee in
terms of Section 56 of the Act could be transferred to the State Government
under Section 59 of the Act. If the Notified Area Committee is to sell its
property other than those specified in Section 59 of the Act, it can be act
upon only after resolution of the Committee, a copy of which is required to
be sent to the Deputy Commissioner within three days in terms of Section
30 of the Act. The approval of the Deputy Commissioner on 29.05.1979
was for the sale of 79 commercial sites with 5 per cent reservation for
Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and serving/ex-servicemen from
defence forces. In terms of the Rules notified in the year 1918, after
completion of sale, the same was required to be submitted to the
Government for confirmation. But if the property is put to auction and the
price realized is not less than 75 per cent of the price accepted by
Government when the proposals for sale were submitted for sanction, the
sale may be confirmed by the Commissioner without further reference to
Government. The scheme under which 242 residential and 79 commercial
sites were sold is known as 61.21 acres scheme regarding the land situated
at Chandigarh- Kalka road. No resolution of the Committee as required
under the Act for sale of the property and forwarding the same for seeking
approval of the Deputy Commissioner or the competent authority has been
placed on record. The alleged resolution No.4 purported to be the
resolution passed by the Committee is not actually a resolution but the
same appears to be a concoction as none of the members of the Committee
are allegedly signatories of the same. The said resolution No.4 dated
28.4.1979 does not indicate if it was passed by the majority of the
members. It is in the shape of a letter written by the Secretary. Again a
letter bearing UO No.NAC-79/1062 dated 5.5.1979, has been written by
the President of the Committee for according approval of the Deputy
Commissioner for sale of the plots. The said letter is accompanied by the C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -19- ***

terms and conditions for sale of the property which is also signed by the
President of the Committee without any approval of such terms from the
Committee. Among other terms and conditions, the letter written by the
President indicates about some reservations of the residential plots to the
particular category of persons whereas commercial plots do not indicate
any such reservation, however, the Deputy Commissioner, vide letter dated
29.5.1979, accorded the sanction as under :- Sd/- Deputy Commissioner,
 Chandigarh." But, in the present case, no such reservation was provided and
all the 12 plots were sold on free hold basis at reserve price. As a matter of
fact, no proper publication of the scheme was made by the Committee. No
public notice was issued as required under the Act before putting the sites
to sale. Section 214 , 215 and 218 of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911, refer
to the manner in which the notice has to be served or published. Relevant
Sections of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 read as under :- Provided that such notice may be signed by the Medical Officer of
 Health when it is issued by the committee under any section of this Act
 under which power may be delegated to the Municipal Officer of Health
 under clause (b) of Section 33 and has been so delegated.
 (2) When the place of abode or business of the person to whom notice is
 addressed is not within the limits of the municipality, the notice may be
 served by posting it in a registered cover addressed to his usual place of
 abode. (3) If the owner of any property has no place of abode or business within
 the municipality, every such notice addressed to him as such owner may
 be served on the occupier. (4) When the place of abode or business of the occupier of any property is
 not known every such notice addressed to him as such occupier may be
 served by affixing it to some conspicuous part of the property.
 (5) No notice issued by the committee under this Act or under any rule or

 bye-law shall be invalid for defect of form." 218. Publication of public notices - Every public notice given by a
 committee under this Act or any rule or bye-law shall be published by
 proclamation or in such other manner as the State Government may, by
 rule, direct." On critical analysis of the aforesaid provisions it transpires that
when the time for publishing notice has not been fixed by any provisions of
the Act, then the Committee shall fix a reasonable time for doing the same.
The Committee was also to seek direction of the State Government in
publishing and proclaiming such public notices. But, in this case, the
Committee appears to have been side lined, but the Secretary and the
President of the Committee were on the forefront of the whole game. They
did not seek any direction from the State Government about the manner in
which the notice was to be published or proclaimed and no reasonable time
was fixed in the said notice issued by the Committee. The sanction was C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -21- ***

accorded by the Deputy Commissioner vide letter dated 29.5.1979 which
may have been received by the Committee at the most on 31.5.1979. The
Secretary of the Committee wrote a letter to the Manager, The Tribune,
Chandigarh on 31.5.1979, pursuant to which a notice in the small column
of the English Tribune was published on 7.6.1979 as directed by the
Secretary of the Committee. The notice further reveals that the date of
receipt of the applications was 16.6.1979. The description of the plots,
their location or even the earnest money required to be deposited is
disclosed. To cover up such omission, the stand is that public notice in
repsect of such details was displayed on the notice board of the Committee.
The size of notice board, the manner in which it was published has not been
disclosed. In fact, the layout plan is huge, which could not have been
displayed on any normal size of notice board. This type of notice does not amount to giving any wide
publicity to the scheme for inviting applications of the customers with a
motive to fetch maximum price but the same appears to be a camouflage
and an eye wash to complete the formalities. The residents of this area
knows Hindi and Punjabi but such citizens were deprived of the
information about the availability of plots for sale of the plots at
Chandigarh- Kalka road. Further the notice is defective inasmuch as - (i) it
was very short notice so as to provide proper opportunity to the intending
purchasers for filing the applications; (ii) notice itself does not indicate any
performa over which it could be applied; (iii) it is vague inasmuch as it
does not disclose the situation of the area where plots are located or the
number and sizes of the plots to be sold. The area at Manimajra is a big
area, therefore, it was difficult to assess and analyze as to where the
property was located. Since it was a matter of sale of commercial sites,
therefore, if sold without giving wide publicity would certainly result into a
huge loss of revenue to the Committee, therefore, it should have been
appropriate if a wide publicity through the regional newspapers of
vernacular language and national language would have been given. The
notice does not refer to number of residential or commercial plots; the C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -22- ***

reserve sale price of the plots; the manner in which the allotment was to be
made and the date and the place of auction. It may further be observed that notice though bears the
signatures of the President but no resolution indicates if the President was
authorised to issue such notice. The Committee being the legal entity is
governed by the Act, Rules or the resolution passed thereunder.
Consequently, the President or the Secretary or any other member of the
Committee without any proper authorization could not issue such notice,
therefore, in the absence of any such resolution or rule, we find that the
President or the Secretary of the Committee were not competent to issue
notices, receive applications and put the property to sale without following
the proper procedure as prescribed under the aforesaid rules. The Secretary
of the Committee on receiving all the applications appears to have allotted
the plots without draw of lots, in view of the fact that the number of
applications was less than the number of plots. The process of allotment
has not been got approved from Government. It appears that Hoshiar Singh,
President and J.S. Walia, Secretary of the Committee in collusion with the
officers in the helm of affairs, without publishing valid notice and giving
adequate advertisement for sale of the plots adopted the methodology to
benefit their own kiths and kins. The earnest money deposited, as per Annexure R-2, shows
that seven persons, namely, Major Mahinder Singh, Smt. Bimla Malik, O.P.
Malik and Des Raj applied for two plots each and got issued drafts
No.848423 to 848431 from Punjab & Sind Bank, Sector 26, Chandigarh for
a sum of Rs.3000/- each on one date i.e. 15.6.1979. Jatinder Walia,
Paramjit Walia and Urmil also got issued drafts from the same bank on the
same date and the others also applied on or after 13.6.1979. The argument of the learned counsel for the respondents that
even prior to the sale of these plots, the number of applicants was always
less than the number of plots, therefore, no abnormality could be said to
have taken place in the sale of the present plots. In this regard, it may be
mentioned that J.S. Walia, who admittedly was not qualified for the present C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -23- ***

post of Secretary having gained the patronage of the high ups, therefore,
with an intention to oblige those who had contributed for his appointment
was bound to oblige them by applying short cut procedure while violating
the rules by not giving wide publicity to the scheme. It has come on record
that J.S. Walia himself got allotted plots in his name or in the names of his
sons, relatives or friends, therefore, while getting benefit for himself, did
not shirk while obliging other official's as beneficiaries of the public land
at throw away price in order to get support to his own illegal acts. Though
the Finance Secretary, having come to know about the fraud being
committed by the officers in regard to the mal administration in the sale of
the property situated at Manimajra, had ordered stay, yet, two plots had
been allotted by the respondents on 31.7.1979. As regards the argument that the respondent Committee had
dealt with the municipal property earlier also in a similar manner and
allotted the same without any public auction and it was so done for the
reason that the number of booths or residential sites were more than
number of customers, as such, the case of the petitioner cannot be taken as
an exception and they having spent lot of money over the construction with
the permission of the Municipal Committee now cannot be thrown away
out of the premises. In this regard it may be observed that each case has to be
examined on its own facts. We cannot validate the wrong committed by the
Committee in a particular case on the ground that it had committed the
similar ground earlier. The principle of discrimination has no application in
such circumstances. As we are not sitting over to decide the validity of the
earlier or latter allotments, therefore, the argument is turned down. The property as put to sale was situated at strategic junction of
Manimajra at Chandigarh- Kalka Road, but the display advertisement
which appeared at page No.8 of the Tribune on 7.6.1979 did not reflect the
exact location but instead it displayed the location "at Manimajra". Had the
exact location been mentioned in the notice, then certainly more customers
ought to have been attracted. ***

 While refuting the arguments, the learned counsel for the
respondents have urged that it was an open sale of the property and every
customer including the petitioner could participate while applying for the
same, therefore, no fraud could be said to have been committed, we observe
that despite the defect and the irregularities as referred to above in
connection with the sale, it is noticed that no official of the Committee was
associated in the allotment of the sites. The allotment letters were prepared
by J.S. Walia Secretary of the Committee himself and in order to show
observance of the formalities, Smt. Reeta Grover a clerk has signed the
letter. Learned counsel for the respondents have referred to the second
notice dated 1.8.1979 containing details of the sites and their prices. The
said notice appears to have not been got approved from the competent
authority nor published in the press. The said notice is also vague and it is
also doubtful if it was actually affixed on any notice board and there is no
note in the file if such notice was placed on the notice board, which
amounts to concealment of facts of availability of sites at Chandigarh-
Kalka road from the general public. The record further reflects that the
allotment of mini show room sites was proposed by the Secretary and
approved by the President of the Committee and the letters so written to the
Deputy Commissioner do not refer to any approval by the Committee. Learned counsel for the respondents has urged that despite the
advertisement, which appeared in the newspaper on 7.6.1979, two more
advertisements appeared in the press subsequently, but they have failed to
support this fact by any documentary evidence. Learned counsel for the respondents have given much stress
that though the allegations are with regard to the sale of the plots to the
relatives of the President, Secretary of the Committee, Deputy
Commissioner, Senior Architect and the other persons associated with the
Committee, yet the petitioner ought to have strictly proved this fact. We
observe that from the affidavit as filed on 11.1.2012 as also from the facts
available on record and inference drawn on such basis, it is crystal clear
that according to the allottees' list first mini show room site was allotted to C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -25- ***

two sons of J.S. Walia, Secretary of the Committee, second to the wife of
Mr. Verma, (town planner who prepared the lay out plan), third plot was
allotted to the son of Joginder Singh (senior IAS Officer of Punjab), fourth
plot was given to the daughter of S.C. Nangia, Senior Town Planner, fifth
was given to Nathi Singh of Chandigarh (said to be the relative of P.P.
Singh Swahney, the then President of the Committee), sixth was given to
the father of the Chairman of the Committee, seventh to the wife of the
Assistant Estate Officer U.T. Chandigarh, eighth to the sister-in-law of the
Chairman of the Committee, ninth to Daulat Ram of Faridabad (said to be
benami for Hoshair Singh President of the Committee), tenth was given to
Rupinder Singh of Chandigarh (said to be relation of J.S. Walia Secretary
of the Committee), eleventh was given to the wife of A.S. Mehendiratta,
Architect, Chandigarh Administration and twelfth was given to the
daughter of Mohinder Singh Executive Magistrate (now retired). No
rebuttal to this affidavit has been filed by way of furnishing counter
affidavit. Even if in respect of few allottees, the exact relation with the
officials is not made out, the fact remains that at least 8 plots out of 12 were
allotted to the officials. The said fact is sufficient to infer that all the
allotments were actuated by fraud. The enquiry conducted by Mr. Bhagwan Dass, Inspector
Vigilance Cell, Chandigarh in terms of the direction of the Chief
Commissioner is on record. He has found that initially there were 67
commercial cites, as per approved site plan, but 12 show room Nos. 815A,
815B, 815C,815D, 830A, 830B, 830C, 830D, 855A, 855B, 855C and 855D
were created later on with a motive to allot them to their own kiths and kins
and for obliging the officers/officials associated with the Administration.
He also observed that the allotments were made in hurried manner;
according to the official file, a note was put up on 26.6.1979 that 48
applications i.e. less than number of plot offered was received and
allotment could be made without draw of lots. The said note was followed
by a note dated 30.6.1979 recorded by J.S. Walia, Secretary proposing the
system of first come first serve. The said proposal was approved by C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -26- ***

Hoshiar Singh, President of the Committee on 30.6.1979 itself and
thereafter a press note was given by J.S. Walia to the effect that allotment
letters in all 48 cases be issued and the same were issued on 2.7.1979. He
also reported that the residential and commercial sector on the East of
Chandigarh- Kalka Road was first proposed by the Committee on
30.8.1978. Notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act for
acquisition of the area was issued on 2.1.1979. Before issue of notification
under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, on 17.3.1979 and completion
of other formalities of acquisition, the NAC, Manimajra asked the Town
Planner on 23.1.1979 to prepare the layout plan of the area. The plan was
prepared and supplied on 24.4.1979 and revised on 27.4.1979 on the
condition that the property shall be demarcated on the ground to check
feasibility of the site. No checking on that account was ever made and the
sites were created and allotted in haste by the N.A.C. Manimajra.
Unnecessary haste shown in creation and allotment of the sites on nominal
price without getting any sanction from the Government is another
circumstance which contributed to the allotment of mini show room sites
at Manimajra only to the officers and the relations concerned, directly
point out towards misfeasance in the public office and breach of statutory
duty and malicious use of power. The manner in which the plots were carved out, the
advertisement issued and the plots allotted to the officials associated with
the Notified Area Committee shows that there was a calculated design to
grab the public property by deceit under the cover of wide publicity by
publication of a public notice bereft of any particulars in the newspaper and
then introduced public notice on the Notice Board, the possibility of which
is not reliable. The essence of the parliamentary democracy is not to
distribute the property in an unplanned or unorganized and ruthless manner. 11. A reference to Wade's Administrative Law shows that a breach of
 statutory duty does give rise in public law to liability, which has come to
 be known as "misfeasance in public office", and which includes C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -28- ***

 malicious abuse of power. This aspect has been dealt at pp. 789Et al of
 the 7th Edn. It has been stated that public authorities or officers may be
 liable in damages for malicious, deliberate or injurious wrongdoing. The
 Supreme Court of Canada in Pon Carelli v. Duplejis awarded damages
 against the Prime of Quebec personally for directing the cancellation of a
 restaurant owner's liquor licence. The Supreme Court of Victoria in
 Farrington v. Thomson, awarded damages against a licensing inspector
 and a police officer who had ordered the plaintiff to close his hotel and
 cease supplying liquor, though they knew they did not possess such a
 power. Smith, J. referred in that case to the statement of Best, C.J. Made
 in Henly v. Lyme Corpn. Bingn at 107 reading as below : While interpreting fraud, the Apex Court in case Bhaurao
Dagdu Paralkar vs. State of Maharashtra and others (2005) 7 Supreme
Court Cases 605 observed as under :- in equity has been defined as an act or omission
 to act or concealment by which one person obtains an advantage
 against conscience over another or which equity or public policy
 forbids as being prejudicial to another. In Black's Legal
 Dictionary, f"raud"is defined as an intentional perversion of truth
 for the purpose of inducing another in reliance upon it to part with
 some valuable thing belonging to him or surrender a legal right; a
 false representation of a matter of fact whether by words or by
 conduct, by false or misleading allegations, or by concealment of
 that which should have been disclosed, which deceives and is
 intended to deceive another so that he shall act upon it to his legal
 injury. In Concise Oxford Dictionary, it has been defined as
 criminal deception, use of false representation to gain unjust
 advantage; dishonest artifice or trick. According to Halsbury's
 Laws of England, a representation is deemed to have been false,
 and therefore a misrepresentation, if it was at the material date
 false in substance and in fact. Section 17 of the Indian Contract
 Act, 1872 defines "fraud"as act committed by a party to a contract
 with intent to deceive another. From dictionary meaning or even
 otherwise fraud arises out of deliberate active role of
 representator about a fact, which he knows to be untrue yet he
 succeeds in misleading the representee by making him believe it to
 be true. The representation to become fraudulent must be of fact
 with knowledge that it was false. In a leading English case i.e.
 Derry and Ors. v. Peek (1886-90) All ER 1 what constitutes "fraud"
 was described thus: (All ER p. 22 B-C)
 "Fraud"is proved when it is shown that a false representation has C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -30- ***

 been made (i) knowingly, or (ii) without belief in its truth, or (iii)
 recklessly, careless whether it be true or false". But "fraud" in public law is not the same as f"raud"in private law. Nor can
 the ingredients, which establish "fraud"in commercial transaction, be of
 assistance in determining fraud in Administrative Law. It has been aptly
 observed by Lord Bridge in Khawaja v. Secretary of State for Home Deptt.
 (1983) 1 All ER 765, that it is dangerous to introduce maxims of common
 law as to effect of fraud while determining fraud in relation of statutory
 law. "Fraud"in relation to statute must be a colourable transaction to
 evade the provisions of a statute. I"f a statute has been passed for some one particular purpose, a
 court of law will not countenance any attempt which may be made
 to extend the operation of the Act to something else which is quite
 foreign to its object and beyond its scope. Present day concept of
 fraud on statute has veered round abuse of power or mala fide
 exercise of power. It may arise due to overstepping the limits of
 power or defeating the provision of statute by adopting subterfuge
 or the power may be exercised for extraneous or irrelevant
 considerations. The colour of fraud in public law or
 administration law, as it is developing, is assuming different
 shades. It arises from a deception committed by disclosure of
 incorrect facts knowingly and deliberately to invoke exercise of
 power and procure an order from an authority or tribunal. It must
 result in exercise of jurisdiction which otherwise would not have
 been exercised. The misrepresentation must be in relation to the
 conditions provided in a section on existence or non-existence of
 which the power can be exercised. But non-disclosure of a fact not
 required by a statute to be disclosed may not amount to fraud.
 Even in commercial transactions non-disclosure of every fact does
 not vitiate the agreement. I"n a contract every person must look for
 himself and ensures that he acquires the information necessary to
 avoid bad bargain. In public law the duty is not to deceive. (See
 Shrisht Dhawan (Smt.) v. M/s. Shaw Brothers, SCC p.554, para 20). In Bhaurao Dagdu Paralkar 's case (supra), it has also been
observed as under :- In the same judgment Lord Parker LJ observed that fraud vitiates all
 transactions known to the law of however high a degree of solemnity.
 (page 722). These aspects were recently highlighted in the State of
 Andhra Pradesh and Anr. v. T. Suryachandr Rao ." It would apposite to mention here that the Apex Court in case Mukund Swarup Mishra vs. Union of India and others , (2007) 2
Supreme Court Cases 536 which refers to the allotment of petrol pump
made by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, observed as under :- In Mukund Swarup Mishra 's case (supra), the Apex Court
interpreted the word "other consideration", and further observed as under :- would take within its sweep all consideration other than merits of the
 case. Ultimately, the direction of this Court was not a statute nor can it
 be considered as an enactmemnt." The Apex Court in case A.V. Papayya Sastry and others vs.
Govt. of A.P. and others (2007) 4 Supreme Court Cases 221 observed as
under :- The Apex Court in case Meghmala and others vs. G.
Narasimha Reddy and others (2010) 8 Supreme Court Cases 383, while
interpreting fraud and consequences thereof, observed as under :- 29. In Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation v. M/s. GAR Re-
 Rolling Mills & Anr. and State of Maharashtra & Ors. Vs. Prabhu this
 Court observed that a writ Court, while exercising its equitable
 jurisdiction, should not act as to prevent perpetration of a legal fraud as
 the courts are obliged to do justice by promotion of good faith. E
 " quity is,
 also, known to prevent the law from the crafty evasions and sub-letties C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -33- ***

 invented to evade law." 30. In Smt. Shrisht Dhawan v. M/s. Shaw Bros, it has been held as
 under: (SCC p.553, para 20)
 "Fraudand collusion vitiate even the most solemn proceedings in
 any civilised system of jurisprudence. It is a concept descriptive of
 human conduct." 31. In United India Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Rajendra Singh & Ors. AIR
 2000 SC 1165, this Court observed that "Fraudand justice never dwell
 together" (fraus et jus nunquam cohabitant) and it is a pristine maxim
 which has never lost its temper over all these centuries. 32. The ratio laid down by this Court in various cases is that dishonesty
 should not be permitted to bear the fruit and benefit to the persons who
 played fraud or made misrepresentation and in such circumstances the
 Court should not perpetuate the fraud. (See District Collector &
 Chairman, Vizianagaram Social Welfare Residential School Society,
 Vizianagaram Anr. Vs. M. Tripura Sundari Devi ; Union of India & Ors.
 Vs. M. Bhaskaran ; Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan & Anr. Vs. Girdharilal
 Yadav; State of Maharashtra v. Ravi Prakash Babulalsing Parmar ; Himadri Chemicals Industries Ltd. Vs. Coal Tar Refining Company ; and Mohd. Ibrahim & Ors. Vs. State of Bihar . 33. Fraud is an intrinsic, collateral act, and fraud of an egregious
 nature would vitiate the most solemn proceedings of courts of justice.
 Fraud is an act of deliberate deception with a design to secure
 something, which is otherwise not due. The expression "fraud" involves two
 elements, deceit and injury to the person deceived. It is a cheating
 intended to get an advantage. (Vide Vimla (Dr.) v. Delhi Admn. ; Indian
 Bank v. Satyam Fibres (India) (P) Ltd. ; State of A.P. v. T. Suryachandra
 Rao ; K.D. Sharma Vs. SAIL and Central Bank of India Vs. Madhulika
 Guruprasad Dahir ." In the light of the aforesaid judgments, which discuss and
elaborate the scope of fraud, it would be hard to accept the contention that
the respondents are bona-fide purchasers for a consideration with the
permission of the Notified Area Committee for reasons discussed herein
before. We have already found that the sale of the commercial sites is
fraudulent. Now the question arises, "whether the transferors from a person C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -34- ***

who is a party to the fraud could be said to be ostensible owner?" It is
settled by now that the allotment in favour of the transferor having been set
aside on account of the fraud, he losses his title from the date of allotment
and not from the date of order, therefore, in view of the judgment delivered
in case Smt. Niranjan Kaur and others v. The Financial Commissioner,
Revenue & Secretary to Government, Punjab and others, AIR 2011
Punjab 1 (Full Bench), wherein their Lordships observed that transferor
by virtue of the original allotment can be said to be permissible user of the
land before allotment was cancelled but such transferor cannot be said to
be ostensible owner as the ownership itself has been set aside either as a
result of fraud or for some other irregularity. The transfer in favour of the
transferor was invalid and void from the date of transfer though factum of
fraud or irregularity came to the notice of the real owner (Central
Government) subsequently. Therefore, it cannot be said that the transferor
of the appellant was the ostensible owner. Once the allotment is cancelled,
such cancellation is not prospective i.e. from the date of order, but as if
allotment was never made. A full Bench of this Court in case Balwant
Kaur v. Chief Settlement Commissioner (Lands) Punjab, 1963 Punjab
Law Reporter, 1141, has held that the Chief Settlement Commissioner is
competent to cancel or set aside he order of transfer if the sanad is granted
or the sale deed has been executed. It has been held that on such order
being made, sanad or sale deed will automatically fall with it. The majority
has upheld the earlier judgment of Division Bench of this Court reported as
Bara Singh v. Jogindeer Singh, 1959 PLR 127.. The majority opinion
reads as under :- The occupants of the aforesaid sites shall vacate the
 same within three months. 4. The allottees shall not be entitled to any compensation
 for the super structure for the reason that they have
 utilized the public land since the date of allotment
 illegally and on the basis of fraudulent allotment. 5. In case, the allottees or their assignees, including the
 occupiers thereof, fail to vacate the premises within three
 months, the Municipal Corporation shall take the
 possession of the same under the provisions of The
 Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorized Occupants)
 Act, 1971 . 6. In the meantime, the official respondents shall conduct
 an enquiry into the entire matter of carving out of plots
 in the lay out plan, as to whether such plots have been
 carved out properly and after following the due
 procedure. If the answer is 'Yes', then the plots along
 with super structure shall be put to sale by way of public
 auction after giving wide publicity in at least three
 newspapers i.e. English, Hindi and Punjabi. 7. If the lay out is found to be not amended in accordance
 with the procedure or the requirement of law, the super
 structure shall be razed to the ground and the area be
 used for parking as originally provided in the lay out
 plan. 8. The Chandigarh Administration and/or Municipal
 Corporation shall complete investigations in respect of
 which report was earlier submitted and launch
 prosecution against the persons found guilty of C.W.P. No. 3271 of 1982 -37- ***

 malfeasance and misfeasance. 9. It shall be open to the Administration to initiate civil,
 criminal or any other proceedings against the officials
 responsible for causing loss to the public exchequer,
 allottees, occupiers and tenants, as is permissible under
 the law. We acknowledge the assistance provided by Mr. Jaskirat Singh
Sidhu, Advocate as an Amicus Curiae.