SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Help, my father was a victim of UPI fraud.
DATE: 2024-11-11
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1gowomp/help_my_father_was_a_victim_of_upi_fraud/

--- POST TEXT ---

My father had ordered shoes online, the delivery was delayed so he googled Delhivery customer care number and decided to call a number which was listed. The person asked him to open an apk that he sent on whatsapp to transfer 5 rupees. He did so, which probably was a cloning apk or something. I wasn't around the house for the past week, and mostly I do all these things for him. 

This happened on Friday last week. Then on Saturday morning he made a UPI transaction to recharge his phone and left for a funeral of a distant relative. Meanwhile, on his journey three transactions were made amounting to 99500 from his account to two Canara Bank accounts. 

He found it out while checking his messages after the funeral. He immediately called the helpline and blocked his account. Called up a cop he knows and registered the complaint. As yesterday was Sunday, he went to his SBI branch to escalate the issue today. In the late evening shadow amount was blocked of the aforementioned transactions (which I guess is perfunctory and mandated by RBI guidelines), he still has some hope for recovery. I, on the other hand, believe that money is a lost cause though I haven't told him that. You see, he is still in shock. 

Now, my question is since the bank already has the account number of the low life perpetrators along with a name Shoojit Sircar or something along with shell companies. Why can't they just block the account and pass the identifying information to the Police to track them? I am sure the money has already been spent or transferred to other accounts. 

But I am sure nothing will happen in this godforsaken country run by scums for the scums. My last hope is filing a complaint against Canara Bank if they don't pass over the identifying information of the said account. If I do get the info, we have contacts in the higher echelons of our state to do the needful (in the parlance of call centers) 

PS: I am sure there are these lowlife scammers hanging around on reddit too, if you are, I hope you make use of that ill gotten money and build a toilet.