This Writ Petition is filed challenging the enquiry report dated

 06.03.2023 submitted by the 3rd respondent - Internal Complaints Committee

 (ICC), The Nilgiris District. By the said report, the ICC took into account that

 a criminal case was already registered against the petitioner / delinquent and

 recommended that in respect of every incident of sexual harassment

 committed by him, disciplinary action should be taken. The ICC also

 recommended that the petitioner be continued under suspension, till the

 completion of the departmental proceedings. In the event of revocation of

 suspension, the petitioner should be transferred to any distant place, outside

 the Nilgiris District. Case of the Petitioner:- barred complaint. The Committee did not conduct the enquiry as

 contemplated under Section 7 of the POSH Act. It failed to send a copy of the

 complaint to the petitioner within a period of 7 working days. The Committee

 did not also follow the principles of natural justice. Only after the persistent

 effort of the petitioner, a copy of the complaint was furnished to him. No

 opportunity to cross-examine or a fair hearing was given to the petitioner. 2.3. Apart from the said Mrs AAA, two other persons' names (Ms.

 BBB and Ms. CCC) were also referred to in the enquiry report. The

 statements made by them do not come within the definition of sexual Page 4 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 harassment. In any event, the said allegations also relate to the period 2018 to

 2021. Further, Section 13(i) of the POSH Act contemplates that the copy of

 the enquiry report should be served on the petitioner within a period of 10

 days from the date of completion of the enquiry. The employer shall also act

 upon the recommendation, within 60 days of its receipt. Without complying

 with the above, only on 01.12.2023, a charge memorandum was issued to the

 petitioner. Even while issuing the charge memorandum, the respondents did

 not furnish any of the documents mentioned in Annexure – III. Only after a

 request was made by the petitioner, the documents were furnished to him on

 12.02.2024. Even a perusal of the documents would make it clear that the

 witnesses were not examined in the presence of the petitioner and no

 opportunity whatsoever was granted to the petitioner to cross-examine the

 witnesses. As a matter of fact, even the defence witnesses were shown as if

 they were prosecution witnesses. There is complete non-application of mind

 on the part of the committee and hence the Writ Petition.

 Case of the Respondents:- Page 5 of 40 Since the grounds which were raised in the Writ Petition are either legal

 grounds of noncompliance with the provisions of the POSH Act or violations

 of procedure /principles of natural justice by the committee, the learned

 Additional Government Pleader argued the matter on the strength of the

 records. Accordingly, the matter was taken up for final disposal.

 Submissions of the petitioner:- Questions arise for consideration:- (ii) Whether or not, the impugned report is liable to be quashed for

 violation of principles of natural justice? The Prelude:- verbal conduct of sexual nature;”

 7.2. Sexual harassment causes considerable harm to women.

 Harassment undermines women's workplace authority, reduces them to sexual

 objects and reinforces sexual stereotypes and inappropriate gender behaviour.

 It can have deleterious consequences for the mental and physical health of

 women. The victims of harassment continue to report depressive symptoms

 even after a decade later and the longevity of the after-effects is more. The

 mental deterioration includes depression, self-doubt, withdrawal from

 employment, fear of being labelled as troublemakers and spoiling the

 11 Why Women Are Blamed for Being Sexually Harassed: The Effects of Empathy for Female Victims and
 Male Perpetrators Renata Bongiorno, Chloe Langbroek , Paul G. Bain , Michelle Ting , and Michelle K.
 Ryan - https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0361684319868730 Page 14 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 organisation's reputation etc.,12. In the Indian context also the fear is writ large

 as the victims themselves will be blamed for the harassment. Such secondary

 victimization is not only in the hands of the employer or the larger society, it

 is also feared within the immediate society and family. 7.3. Sexual harassment of women in workplace, not only seriously

 harms the victims, but has a serious consequence for women workers as a

 group themselves and thus has a telling effect on the workforce of every

 organization and as a result on the economy of the nation itself. Thus, there is

 a need to deal with the same not just by a remedial action, but also by

 implementing measures for prevention and also to provide protection for the

 victims specifically and to the women workforce in general. 7.4. Since there was no legislation governing the field, the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court of India by taking note of the sexual harassment in workplace

 prevailing in our country coupled with the international treaty obligations

 12 THE ECONOMIC AND CAREER EFFECTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT ON WORKING WOMEN - Author(s): HEATHER MCLAUGHLIN, CHRISTOPHER UGGEN and AMY BLACKSTONE- Source: 13 (2013) 1 Supreme Court Cases 297
 14 2023 SCC Online SC 1423 Page 16 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India had held that the Court should not get

 swayed by discrepancies and hyper technicalities while considering the cases

 relating to sexual harassment and the overall fairness of the enquiry should be

 considered regarding any procedural violation which is complained of. Union

 of India and Ors. Vs. Mudrika Singh15 also held that the Courts should

 uphold the spirit of the right against sexual harassment which is vested in all

 persons as part of their right to life and right to dignity under Article 21 of the

 Constitution of India. The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India cautioned that the

 Courts to be mindful of the power dynamics that are mired in sexual

 harassment at the workplace and several considerations and the deterrents

 that an aggrieved subordinate of sexual harassment has to face when they

 consider reporting the sexual misconduct of their superior. 7.6. It can be seen from the Act that the ICC shall be constituted as

 per Section 4 of the Act by every employer. Section 9 of the Act states that the

 complaint of sexual harassment is to be made and enquired by the internal

 committee and the same is extracted hereunder:- (2)Where the aggrieved woman is unable to make a
 complaint on account of her physical or mental incapacity or
 death or otherwise, her legal heir or such other person as may
 be prescribed may make a complaint under this section.”

 While Section 10 directs attempting of a conciliation, Section 11 delineates

 the procedure to be adopted by the internal committee or the local committee

 into the complaint. Section 12 directs that the internal committee shall

 conduct an enquiry in accordance with the provisions of the service rules. As

 per Section 13 , the committee shall submit a report by giving its findings to

 the employer. Under Section 13 (3) , if the committee arrives at a conclusion

 that the allegation against the delinquent has been proved, it shall recommend Page 18 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 to the employer or the District Officer as the case may be to take action for

 sexual harassment as misconduct in accordance with the provisions of the

 service rules as applicable to the employer. 7.7. Even though directions were issued in Medha Kotwal Lele's

 case (cited supra) holding that the report of the local complaints committee

 should not be treated as a mere preliminary enquiry, but as an enquiry report

 giving a finding on the misconduct itself, it can be further seen that the same

 is specifically made in the absence of the Act and also directions were given

 for amendment of the service regulations. After the advent of the Act, the

 Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Aureliano Fernandes case (cited supra)

 specifically considered the question as to the nature of enquiry and after

 considering the Articles 309 , 310 and 311 of the Constitution of India it held

 that the principles of natural justice have to be mandatorily complied with.

 While considering the amended CCS and CCA rules in respect of the Central

 Government employees, the Court has held in paragraph No.51 as follows:- At that inquiry oral evidence shall be heard as to such of the
 allegations as are not admitted, and the person charged shall be
 entitled to cross-examine the witnesses to give evidence in person
 and to have such witnesses called, as he may wish, provided that
 the officer conducting the inquiry may, for special and sufficient
 reason to be recorded in writing, refuse to call a witness. Whether
 or not the person charged desired or had an oral inquiry, he shall
 be heard in person at any stage if he so desires before passing of
 final orders. A report of the inquiry or personal hearing (as the
 case may be) shall be prepared by the authority holding the
 inquiry or personal hearing whether or not such authority is
 competent to impose the penalty .Such report shall contain a
 sufficient record of the evidence , if any, and a statement of the
 findings and the grounds thereof. Whenever any inquiring
 authority, after having heard and recorded the whole or any part
 of the evidence in an inquiry ceases to exercise jurisdiction
 therein, and is succeeded by another inquiring authority which
 has, and which exercises such jurisdiction, the inquiring authority
 so succeeding may act on the evidence so recorded by its
 predecessor or partly recorded by its predecessor and partly
 recorded by itself; Provided that if the succeeding inquiring authority is
 of the opinion that further examination of any of the witnesses
 whose evidence has already been recorded is necessary in the
 interest of justice, it may recall, examine, cross-examine and re-
 examine any such witnesses as hereinbefore provided: *
 Provided further that where there is a complaint of sexual Page 21 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 harassment within the meaning of rule 20-B of the Tamil
 Nadu Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1973, the
 complaints Committee established in each Government
 department or Office for inquiring into such complaints, shall
 be deemed to be the inquiring authority appointed by the
 Disciplinary Authority for the purpose of these rules and the
 Complaints Committee shall hold the inquiry as far as
 practicable in accordance with the procedure laid down in these Rules. *(Vide G.O.Ms.No.160, P&AR(N) Department,
 dated 20.9.2006 w.e.f. 20.9.2006)
 Provided also* that the Government Servant may
 take the assistance of any retired Government servant to present
 the case on his behalf but may not engage a legal practitioner for
 the purpose unless the inquiring authority is a legal practitioner or
 the inquiring authority, having regard to the circumstances of the
 case, so permits. *(Vide G.O.Ms.No.160, P&AR(N)
 Department, dated 20.9.2006 w.e.f. 20.9.2006)
 (emphasis supplied)”

 7.9. Thus, it can be seen that it is pari materia to the CCS and CCA

 rules and therefore, the above observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

 India in Aureliano Fernandes case (cited supra) especially in paragraph

 No.51 extracted above would be applicable in all force. In view of the above

 directions, the following would emerge, (i) Whenever sexual harassment is complained about by a woman

 in the workplace, the same has to be referred to the ICC; (ii) When such a complaint is referred to the ICC concerning

 Government servants, the ICC should conduct an enquiry as per Rule 17 (b)

 of the Rules. The rules shall be complied with as far as practicable and Page 22 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 therefore, such deviations that do not strike at the core of the principles of

 natural justice shall be permissible considering the sensitivity of the matter; (iii) When the complaint of sexual harassment is lodged, which

 clearly discloses the allegation and the same is furnished to the delinquent

 employee at the commencement of the enquiry, then the requirement of

 framing of the specific charges at the threshold would only be a procedural or

 technical requirement and as such the absence of the same shall not vitiate the

 enquiry; (iv) However, the principles of au d i alter e m part e m which includes

 hearing the version of the delinquent employee and also furnishing him the

 version of the statement of the witnesses and providing an opportunity for

 cross-examination would be within the core principles of natural justice as the

 delinquent employee will be visited with serious ramifications depending upon

 the findings in the enquiry report; (v) However, considering the sensitivity and balance of power

 equations, there can be elasticity in the manner of cross-examination and

 specific questions can be prepared by the delinquent employee or on his

 behalf and it can be put to the victim by a local commissioner or any other Page 23 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 employee as may be nominated by the delinquent employee also if, in the

 opinion of the ICC, exposure of the victim further to the delinquent would not

 be possible if there is an imbalance of power or such procedure will amount to

 tertiary victimization; (vi) Once the enquiry report is submitted, it would be open for the

 disciplinary authority to issue the second show cause notice and after

 considering the further explanation of the delinquent, punishment can be

 imposed on him. (vii) The timelines for furnishing the copy of the complaint,

 completion of enquiry and taking further action are all meant to expedite

 prompt action and are not periods of limitation entitling the delinquent

 employee to question the proceedings itself. (viii) The approach of the disciplinary authority, as well as the

 Courts in these matters, is to consider the entire issue with due sensitivity and

 empathy for the victims while ensuring fair and impartial action and inquiry

 against the delinquents and due compliance with the principles of natural

 justice, and in respect of Government servants due compliance of Article 311 of the Constitution of India to be ensured. Page 24 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 7.10. In this background, let us proceed to consider the questions

 which arise for determination in this case. Question No.1:- 8. As far as the complaint of Mrs.AAA is concerned, firstly it can be

 seen that at the first instance in her complaint dated 05.12.2022, it is stated

 that the petitioner would frequently call her and would make sexually

 coloured conversations. He has been sending WhatsApp messages and she

 was afraid of even complaining the same to the superior. Even though she was

 counselled by her co-employees, her mental agony increased day by day and

 therefore, she sought action. Upon being counselled by the employer, she

 opened up and came up with the serious allegations that during April 2018,

 the petitioner came to her house in the morning and forcibly had sexual

 intercourse. She was unable to disclose it to anybody. Upon such a statement

 on 08.12.2022 and the preliminary enquiry revealed prima facie grounds to

 proceed, therefore, a case in Crime No.12 of 2022 was registered by the

 concerned jurisdictional police. Page 25 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 8.1. As a matter of fact, the subsequent statement dated 19.12.2022

 requires further consideration. She states that despite assurances given by the

 employer and everybody, the copy of the FIR with her name was shared by

 some unknown persons on a YouTube channel. She was afraid that her son

 would come to know about the same. She was very much concerned that the

 matter should not be known to her son. Thus, when the offence complained of

 is a serious one having the effect of causing grave mental trauma and stress to

 the victim, pushing her to a dilemma not to reveal or complain due to the fear

 of secondary and tertiary victimization, on the other hand, she is also unable

 to withstand, swallow or suppress the same, then that state of the victim fits

 the definition of undergoing continuous sexual harassment. So long she

 undergoes such a phenomenon, the same is directly attributable only to the

 perpetrator and therefore would amount to a continuing offence. Such a

 phenomenon is not just the effect of the act, but is the injury itself. 8.2 The injury is not complete just by the forcible physical

 intercourse. The injury adds up every day when the victim is thereafter made

 to silently keep quiet and also face the petitioner at the workplace. Further, Page 26 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 the injury is confounded by fear of secondary and tertiary victimisation. 8.3 In the context of Criminal Law, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of

 India, in Gokak Patel Volkart Ltd. v. Dundayya Gurushiddaiah Hiremath,16 held as follows: emphasis supplied”

 8.5 In the context of service jurisprudence, the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court of India in Union of India v. Tarsem Singh,18 held as follows: Question No.2:- 9. In this case, after the enquiry report is received, a charge

 memorandum containing two charges, in respect of the sexual harassment

 meted out to Mrs AAA alone has been issued. In this connection, it can be

 seen that such a charge has been specifically put to the victim and enquiry of

 the ICC has already been specifically made known to the delinquent employee

 and the ICC had already completed the enquiry and arrived at a finding. The

 finding of the ICC is that the delinquent employee has misbehaved with Mrs

 AAA, Ms BBB and Ms CCC (3 victims). The charge memo speaks only in

 respect of Mrs.AAA alone. Therefore, the very issue of the charge

 memorandum on 01.12.2023 itself can be termed only as by way of abundant

 caution / and it was superfluous. This is not a case where the petitioner can

 plead that he did not know what the allegation was. Even as per the statement

 of the petitioner, after his request, copies of the complaint and the statements

 were duly provided to him. Page 31 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 9.1. A reading of the complaint and the further statements convey

 the allegations which were put against the petitioner. Therefore, this is also a

 case where Mrs.AAA, seems to have suffered serious trauma and stress and

 thus, in tune with the Judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Aureliano Fernandes case (cited supra) (Paragraph No.51), the ICC was

 right in protecting her from facing the delinquent directly thereby avoided

 exposing the victim once again before the delinquent. However, even in a case

 where sensitivity requires that the victim not be exposed before the

 perpetrator, the right to cross-examination is still a valuable facet to ensure

 fairness and impartiality in the enquiry and the principles of natural justice. 9.2. Now, it is relevant to extract the portion of the enquiry report,

 which is extracted hereunder:- 9.3. Thereafter, the committee framed the questions as if it were a

 cross-examination and the questions were administered to the victim and

 answers were elucidated. During the enquiry, on 19.01.2023 the petitioner

 was summoned to appear before the ICC on 20.01.2023. On 21.01.2023

 when the petitioner was specifically questioned about the allegations of sexual

 harassment, he pleaded for copies of the relevant documents. It is essential to

 extract the question and the answer, which is as follows:- examination should be done based on the questions that are prepared by the

 petitioner. Such questions depending on the nature of the witness should be

 permitted to be put before the witnesses directly by the delinquent. However,

 in respect of Mrs.AAA alone questions can be put by any local

 commissioner/employee who may be nominated by the petitioner. The

 absence of such an exercise would not comply with the opportunity of hearing

 and effectively putting forth the case of the petitioner to satisfy the mandate of Article 311 of the Constitution of India. 9.7. Therefore, to that extent, the petitioner is bound to succeed,

 however, the matter has to be remitted back to the ICC from the stage in

 which the enquiry is to be continued. Accordingly, I answer the question that

 the impugned enquiry report would stand partially vitiated for the flaw of not

 providing the petitioner an opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses. Page 35 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 The Result:- 10. Given the aforesaid findings, the Writ Petition is allowed on the

 following terms:- (ii) The proceedings of the 3rd respondent including the statements

 recorded so far, questions which were put to the witnesses and their version,

 and questioning of the delinquent employee shall all hold good; (iii) The ICC as far as possible in the same composition shall

 continue with the enquiry in the manner hereinafter delineated. It is made

 clear that if any one or some members in the ICC are not available, the

 enquiry being statutory in nature and all the procedures being recorded stage-

 wise, shall be continued from the present stage by replacing with a new

 member, if necessary; (iv) The ICC shall reassemble/reconstitute and such committee shall

 conduct the next enquiry on 01.07.2024; (v) On the said date, the petitioner shall appear before the

 committee and among all the witnesses who are already examined, the Page 36 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 petitioner can indicate the names of the witnesses whom he would prefer to

 cross-examine, such witness shall be re-summoned by the committee for

 cross-examination and the same may be permitted by the ICC; (vi) On such adjourned date, without fail on the dates of the

 witnesses being present, the petitioner shall cross-examine them. If the

 petitioner fails to cross-examine the witnesses on such date fixed by the ICC,

 the petitioner will forfeit his right to cross-examine the particular witness; (vii) As far as the victims – Mrs.AAA, Ms.BBB and Ms.CCC are

 concerned, if the committee is of the opinion that the victims need not be

 exposed directly before the delinquent, then the victims shall be protected by a

 screen and answer the questions or then the delinquent / petitioner shall

 prepare a list of questions and the questions can be administered by any other

 employee or who may be chosen by the petitioner, who may not be the rank

 higher than that of the petitioner, viz., the Superintendent; If the petitioner is

 unable to make such a choice, such questions can be administered by the ICC

 itself to the victims; (viii) The petitioner had already examined the witnesses on his part

 and if he chooses to examine any other witnesses, he can also do the same. Page 37 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 After the examination/cross-examination, the petitioner can also examine

 himself, if he chooses to; (ix) After completion of evidence, the petitioner can also be

 permitted to make such oral or written arguments before the ICC and the

 committee shall arrive at a finding and submit its report afresh by objectively

 considering the evidence on record, without reference to the present report

 which is being set aside by this Court; (x) The 3rd respondent – ICC shall complete the entire exercise

 within 60 days and as far as possible conduct the proceedings on a day-to-day

 basis and shall make every endeavour to complete the proceedings as directed

 above within 60 days from 01.07.2024, i.e., on or before 31.08.2024; (xi) Upon receipt of the enquiry report by the ICC, the disciplinary

 authority shall take further steps to complete the disciplinary proceedings as

 the case may be, as if it received the enquiry report pursuant to the charge

 memorandum under 17 (b) of the Rules, within a period of four weeks

 therefrom. If the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that a punishment has

 to be imposed on the delinquent, then issue a second show cause notice and a

 decision should be arrived only after hearing the petitioner. Such exercise Page 38 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 shall be completed within four weeks from the date of receipt of the enquiry

 report by the 3rd respondent – ICC; (xii) No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are

 closed. 11.06.2024

 Jer

 Neutral citation : Yes/No

 To 1.The Deputy Inspector General of Police
 Coimbatore Range, Coimbatore – 18. 2.The Superintendent of Police
 The Nilgiris District, The Nilgiris. 3. The Chairperson
 Internal Complaints Committee
 The Nilgiris District
 The Nilgiris. D.BHARATHA CHAKRAVARTHY, J.,

 Jer Page 39 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis W.P.No.10707 of 2024 Pre-Delivery Order made in W.P.No.10707 of 2024 11.06.2024 Page 40 of 40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis