Facebook is partially reversing its ban on cryptocurrency advertisements and will now allow some preapproved advertisers to promote crypto businesses and services.

Facebook had banned all crypto ads on the platform back in January, around the time of the bitcoin price surge, to prevent promotion of “financial products and services frequently associated with misleading or deceptive promotional practices.”

Now, advertisers have to go through an application process to be able to promote crypto products, though ads promoting binary options and initial coin offerings (ICOs) are still banned . Interested advertisers are now required to show Facebook “licenses they have obtained, whether they are traded on a public stock exchange, and other relevant public backgrounds on their business” in order to receive permission to run crypto ads.

On the application to advertise crypto ads, Facebook mentions that it will allow for advertisements that come within the ambit of the following: cryptocurrency products and services, education on cryptocurrency, cryptocurrency industry news and other content related to cryptocurrency products and services.

The crypto bubble has declined considerably since late 2017 when the price of bitcoin was close to $20,000. (This morning, it’s just above $6,000 per coin.) That sudden rise in crypto created a rush by customers wanted to buy bitcoin. Soon enough, ads appeared by Facebook promoting bitcoin promising inflate cryptocurrency values within hours, Facebook followed through and banned all crypto ads. It stated that the ad ban “is intentionally broad while we work to better detect deceptive and misleading advertising” and that it will revisit the policy.

Soon after Facebook, others like Google , Twitter and Snapchat followed suit and banned crypto ads.

Note that the company started its own internal blockchain team earlier this year to explore the technology that’s used as the foundation for all cryptocurrencies.

As its grown more popular, cryptocurrency has not been welcome in India. Since it is an unregulated currency which is highly risky and prone to fluctuations, the authorities are not too happy about it.

Facebook is trying hard to fine-tune its advertiser policy to prevent misleading and fake ads. Recently, the platform (tried to) clamp down on ads from shopping sites that deliver low-quality products and misleading advertisements via a feedback feature for all ads. This feature is applicable to crypto ads as well and can be “reported” to Facebook. In August 2017, it banned ads from the pages that repeatedly share fake news.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event