Bangalore. Appearance 

Ms. Vijaya Prakash, Advocate for appellant 
Ms. Sabrina Cano, Superintendent (AR) for respondent

CORAM : Honble Shri B.S.V. Murthy, Member (Technical)

FINAL ORDER No..Dated 14.6.2013

Appellant availed CENVAT credit of duty paid on capital goods. On the ground that the appellant had used capital goods for manufacture of exempted goods only, proceedings were initiated for recovery of CENVAT credit. Before proceedings were initiated, the appellant reversed the entire amount of CENVAT credit with interest. Thereafter show-cause notice was issued after nearly one year for appropriation of amount already deposited and imposition of penalty. Consequently, penalty equal to CENVAT credit wrongly availed of Rs. 1,42,048/- has been imposed. The second issue involved in this case is whether the appellant is eligible for CENVAT credit of additional customs duty paid in respect of imports made through courier wherein the appellant has taken credit on the basis of photocopy of Bill Entry. 2.	Learned advocate submits that in the show-cause notice, there is no allegation of suppression of facts or mis-declaration or fraud, collusion etc. In the absence of such allegations, once the amount was paid with interest, no penalty could have been imposed. 3.	I find the submissions of the appellant to be in accordance with statute and according to the provisions of section 11A(2B) of the Central Excise Act, 1994. Once the amount is paid with interest and the department has been informed, proposal for imposition of penalty could be made only if allegation of suppression of facts or mis-declaration or fraud, collusion etc. In the absence of such allegations, proposal for imposition of penalty itself cannot be sustainable. Accordingly, penalty imposed on the appellant of Rs. 1,42,048/- is set aside. 4.	Coming to the second issue, learned counsel relied upon decision of the Tribunal in the case of Controls & Drives Coimbatore (P) Ltd. vs. Commissioner of C.Ex., Coimbatore [2008 (222) E.L.T. 470 (Tri.-Chennai)] to submit that in the absence of any allegation of non-receipt of inputs etc., credit availed on the basis of photocopy of the relevant Bill of Entry has been upheld. 5.	Learned Authorised Representative (AR) on behalf of Revenue relied upon the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Commissioner of C. Ex., Surat vs. Suryoday Blending (P)Ltd. [2012 (278) E.L.T. 373 (Tri.-Ahmd.)] to submit that credit cannot be availed on the basis of photocopy of Bill of Entry. 6.	I find the decision cited by learned AR covers the decision before me. In that case, several decisions of the Tribunal were considered for coming to the conclusion as to why photocopy of Bill of Entry cannot be accepted. On the other hand, in the case of Controls & Drives Coimbatore (P) Ltd. (supra), the main consideration before the Tribunal seems to have been that  

Where the value of import was very small, a consolidated Bill of Entry containing details of goods imported by four or five importers was required to be filed and therefore the original document might not be available to all of the imports. 

The main consideration seems to have been the amount involved in the case. In this case, in my opinion, the amount involved is high. Therefore, observation made in the case of Controls & Drives Coimbatore (P) Ltd. (supra) may not be applicable here. Further, it is seen that the decision in Controls & Drives Coimbatore (P) Ltd. case did not consider several other decisions and the provisions of statute. This is another reason as to why subsequent decision to be taken into account. In the light of above observations, the appellants are not able to make out a case in their favour as regards CENVAT credit in respect of inputs imported through courier. Accordingly, the demand of CENVAT credit of Rs. 1,06,372/- is upheld with interest. In view of the decision of the Tribunal, I find that it may be appropriate to sustain the penalty. Since extended period has been invoked in respect of credit taken on inputs imported through courier and there is no way the department would have come to know of availment of credit on the basis of photocopy of Bill of Entry, I consider that penalty imposed has also to be sustained. 8.	In view of above discussion, demand of CENVAT credit with interest and penalty in respect of capital goods is set aside. Demand of CENVAT credit on inputs imported through courier is upheld and equal amount of penalty is also upheld. 9.	Appeal is disposed of in above terms. (Pronounced and dictated in the open court)

 (B.S.V. Murthy) 
 Member (Technical) 
/vc/