The aforesaid appeal filed by the assessee is against order

dated 29.03.2022, passed by the learned Principal Commissioner of

Income Tax, Ghaziabad, in his revisionary jurisdiction under section

263 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter 'the Act') for

Assessment Year 2012-13. 2. In the grounds of appeal, the assessee has raised following

grounds:- 1, Meerut u/s 147 / 143(3) dated 29.12.2019 was erroneous in so
 far as it was prejudicial to the interest of revenue. The finding of the
 Ld. PCIT is, therefore, arbitrary, unjust, uncalled for, illegal and
 against the facts of the case on the basis of which proceedings u/s
 147 were initiated and assessment was framed. 2. That without prejudice of the ground no. 1 the Ld. PCIT has
 erred to hold that difference of turnover and credit in bank was not
 verified and payment made to Prateek and Pranav Chaudhary not
 enquired. Thus reopening of the case inserting so many other facts
 which were not the part of proceedings u/s 147 , the invocation of section 263 is arbitrary, unjust, uncalled for, illegal and not based
 upon the reasons and finding of assessment." 3. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee is engaged in

manufacturing of bandages and purchase and sale of

pharmaceuticals. The return of income was filed on 29.09.2012,

declaring income of Rs.41,89,740/- and such return was subject to

scrutiny and assessment was completed u/s 143(3) of the Act vide

order dated 16.12.2014. Later on the assessee's case was reopened

under section 147 by issuing notice u/s 148 of the Act after

recording the following 'reasons':- 4. Against the aforesaid reasons, assessee filed its objections

before the AO, which has been placed in the paper book from pages 3 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 8 to 9. Thereafter, on time to time, various queries were raised by

the AO on which the assessee has submitted that earlier in this case

assessment was completed u/s 143(3) of the Act vide order dated

16.12.2014 and the books of accounts were produced and examined

at the time of original assessment proceedings. The assessee again

furnished the books of accounts for verification. Further, in

response to specific notice, the assessee has replied in the following

manner:- 9. Thereafter, the assessee in response to this notice, filed written

submission, which has been incorporated in the impugned order,

wherein, he has given all the details as required stating that all the 9 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 details of increase in cash receipts were duly explained before the

Assessing Officer. 10. Thereafter, learned PCIT issued second notice u/s 263 of the

Act dated 02.03.2022, which is also reproduced hereunder:- 26,14,303/- on sales to to Various Parties including Sh. Prateek
 Chaudhary and Shri Pranav Chaudhary which were needed to
 be examined by the AO but he did not cross verify this fact. It is
 also seen that contradictory information, which was submitted by
 the assessee on different occasions during the assessment 10 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 proceedings, are available on record. The AO did not confront
 these facts during the assessment proceedings.

 2.3 Apart from above it is noted that certain payments i.e.
 commission, salary and other expenses were made to the related
 parties including Sh. Prateek Chaudhary and Shri Pranav
 Chaudhary and family members which were not reported by the
 Auditor u./s 40A (2)(b) of the Act. 2.4 Apart from above it also noted that various cash expenses
 were claimed by you in profit and loss account for which no
 supporting evidence furnished during assessment proceedings. 3. In view of the above, the assessment order passed by the AO,
 Circle-1, Meerut is erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of
 revenue and may be cancelled or modified by invoking the
 provisions of section 263 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 4. Accordingly, you are hereby required to show cause as to why
 an appropriate order under section 263 of the Income-tax Act,
 1961, may not be passed in your case in the light of the facts
 mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs. For this purpose you are
 hereby required to furnish your explanation, with documentary
 evidences in support of your contention, by way of complete
 books of accounts, bill, vouchers, registers & copies of bank
 statements etc., as maintained by you. Please note that in case of
 non compliance, it would be presumed that you have nothing to
 offer in this regard and necessary order shall be passed u/s 263 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, on the basis of material available on
 record." 11. In reply to show cause notice, the assessee again explained the

same thing before him. 12. Learned PCIT in his order has referred to some report of

Investigation Wing, which mentios that the assessee was involved in

some NRHM scam, which was raided by CBI and the key persons

namely Shri Surendra Chaudhary & Shri Narendra Chaudhary, were

made accused. In the earlier investigation report dated 18.03.2019,

CBI found that both these concerns supplied its product at high cost 11 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 to government hospitals and after debiting bogus expenses and

commission etc. siphoned off the money to pay the same in bribes

etc. It was based on this detailed report, the Assessing Officer had

reopened the case after recording the reasons to his belief that there

was a difference of Rs.8,59,45,770/- between the turnover and

credits in the bank account which was not reconciled. According to

him, the Assessing Officer has not enquired these issues, which was

the basis for reopening proceedings. Thereafter, learned PCIT also

rejected the contention of the assessee that in the NRHM matter,

government had made enquiries from all the dealers who were

making the supply to government department but as far as the

assessee's concerned, there was no adverse material found or any

adverse information at all. Further, learned PCIT has recorded some

observation of Hon'ble Allahabad High Court in the case of M/s. Daffodills Pharmaceuticals vs State of UP in 8071 of 2015 on

24.04.2017, whereby Hon'ble Allahabad High Court dismissed the

writ petition filed by that entity and also quoted some observations

made by Hon'ble High Court and also in the in case of Surendra

Chaudhary vs State of UP. These observations have been

incorporated from pages 9 to 11 of the impugned order. Now solely,

based on these observations, learned PCIT has held that the plea

taken by the assessee that it has no relation with NRHM scam is not

acceptable. For the sake of ready reference, the relevant portion of 12 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 the order Hon'ble Allahabad High Court as incorporated by him is

also reproduced:- Further, in another matter related to M/s Daffodills
Pharmaceuticals in the case of SurendraChaudhary vs. State of UP
and another opposite Parties, Hon'ble Allahabad High Court (3 Jul,
2015) has rejected the application for quashing of the proceeding or
the charge sheet. The same is reproduced hereunder- A perusal of the same demonstrates the involvement of the
applicant who is the proprietor of M/s Daffodills Pharmaceuticals
und Ms. Eastern Drugs & Sanitary Products. The aforesaid
allegations in the charge sheet are supported hy evidence that has 15 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 been filed along with the charge sheet itself and has also been
 explained by the learned counsel for the C.B.I

 Learned counsel for the applicant submits that there was no
 sufficient evidence so as to prosecute the applicant and his alleged
 involvement is founded on facts which do not link him in any way
 with the offences alleged. Similar grounds had been taken by one Devendra Mohan in a 482
 application filed before this Court and the same was considered in
 detail along with other co-accused of the NRHM scam. The said
 application was dismissed by a detailed judgment of a learned
 Single Judge of this Court reported in Devendra Mohan v CBI New
 Delhi 2013 (4) ADJ Page 620. On the arguments that have been
 advanced by Sri Sam Gopal the reasons given in the aforesaid
 judgment clearly apply The entire gamut of facts and the fact of
 misappropriating government funds resulting in the NRHM scam is
 clearly extended therein and therefore there is no occasion or any
 reason to quash the proceedings or the charge sheet against the
 applicant. For all the reasons given in the above mentioned judgment as well
 as the reasons stated hereinabove, no case is made out for
 quashing of the proceedings or the charge sheet The Application is
 misconceived and is accordingly rejected." 13. Thereafter, learned PCIT observed that when the books of

accounts were asked by the Investigation Wing, the assessee

claimed that the same is missing and at the same time, the assessee

stated before the Assessing Officer that it had produced books of

accounts during original assessment proceedings and also during

reassessment proceedings. Thus, he held that it cannot be make out

whether books of accounts were verified by the Assessing Officer at

all and how the AO has verified the reconciliation statement and

difference of Rs.8,59,30,921/- for the realization of payment of 16 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 debtors i.e. government departments cannot be verified without

ledgers. Further, though the assessee had furnished cash flow chart

before the Assessing Officer on the issue of difference of bank

deposit and turnover, however, he was of the opinion that the

Assessing Officer did not reconcile the credits in the bank account

and did not enquire upon the issues. He has many harped upon

one aspect that the assessee was also one of the parties of NRHM

scam, wherein, the Hon'ble High Court has also taken note of this

fact and therefore there was lack of enquiry by the AO. Accordingly,

he set-aside the entire assessment order to decide afresh after

taking note of the observations and to carry out verification in this

case after taking input from the CBI wing relating to this case and

pass an appropriate order as per provisions of Income Tax Act . 14. Before us, the learned counsel for the assessee Mr. K. Sampat,

after narrating the entire facts, submitted that each and every

points raised by learned PCIT was rebutted and his para wise reply

of the observation of the learned PCIT reads as under:- 15. Thereafter, the learned counsel for the assessee strongly relied

upon the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Daffodils

Pharmaceuticals Ltd., wherein, on exactly identical observations

given by learned PCIT in order u/s 263 of the Act on the same date

29.03.2022, based on the order of the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court,

this Tribunal vide order dated 19.09.2023 in ITA No.1148/Del/2022

has quashed the revision order. He further brought on record that

the heavy reliance placed on the decision of Hon'ble Allahabad High

Court by the learned PCIT is of no relevance, as he has failed to

consider that later on that Hon'ble Supreme Court vide order dated

13.12.2019 had quashed and set-aside the order of the Hon'ble

Allahabad High Court and its observations. This order has not been

considered by learned PCIT, even though it was rendered much

before passing of his order. Thus, the entire premise for setting aside 19 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 the assessment order based on Hon'ble Allahabad High Court has no

legs to stand. 16. On the other hand, learned Departmental Representative, after

referring to various observations of the PCIT submitted that the

Assessing Officer should have carried out proper

enquiry/verification about issues on which, the reasons were

recorded to which learned PCIT has pointed out in his order in the

part of the Assessing Officer to carry out necessary verification.

Thus, he strongly relied upon the order of the learned PCIT. 17. We have heard both the parties and perused the material

placed on record and the finding of learned PCIT. Here in this case,

original assessment was made u/s 143(3) of the Act vide order dated

28.02.2014, wherein, all the books of account, bills and vouchers,

etc., pertaining to the turnover was duly produced and examined,

which is mentioned in the first para of the original assessment

order. The AO has also verified and examined the reasons for low

gross profit rate and net profit rate and other items of profit & loss

account and accordingly assessment was completed u/s 143(3) at

income of Rs.46,97,710/- as against returned income of

Rs.41,89,740/-. Thereafter, the assessee's case was reopened under section 147 of the Act, based on some investigation report from

DDIT, that there was a difference of turnover and credit in bank 20 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 statement of Rs.8,59,45,770/- and also payment of commission of

Rs.8,90,108/- and Rs.9,11,490/- to Shri Prateek and Prashant

Chaudhary and that said amount was falls under section 40A(2)(b) of the Act. From the reply of the notices issued by the AO during

assessment proceedings, as noted above, the assessee has given the

entire explanation and reconciliation about the difference which has

been noted by us in the foregoing paragraphs. Apart from that, the

assessee has time and again given reconciliation of bank account as

per books of accounts which have been incorporated in para 5

hereinabove. After considering these entire materials on record and

submissions of the assessee, the learned Assessing Officer has

accepted the explanation that the assessee was able to demonstrate

the difference and reconciled each and every entry and explained the

difference. The observation of the AO has also been incorporated

above. 18. Now the learned PCIT, in his revisionary jurisdiction has tried

to give a different angle by stating that the AO has failed to consider

the books of accounts and accepted the reconciliation without

verification. If that was the case, then learned PCIT himself should

himself point out, what was the defect or error in the finding of the

learned AO as well as explanation and material given by the assessee

during the course of assessment proceedings. If the books of

accounts have been produced in the original assessment 21 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 proceedings and then again before the AO in reassessment

proceedings and they have given a categorical observation and

finding that the assessee has produced books of accounts and the

details, which has been verified and examined, then saying that it

was not produced before the Investigation Wing after gap of more

than 10 years, then the finding of AO, both in the original

assessment proceedings and reassessment proceedings cannot be

believed, is bald allegation just because assessee stated before the

Investigation Wing that books of accounts are not available at

present. Does he contend to show that the AO's observation and

finding are wrong? 19. Here the only issue was, there was a difference of credit in the

bank and the turnover of Rs.8,59,45,770/- and some commission

paid to two persons. Once, that was reconciled and explained before

the AO who has examined it and has even dealt with in his order,

then there could not be case of lack of inquiry. The only basis of

learned PCIT is reference to some NHRM scam and observation of

the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court, which have been reproduced

above. Thus, his entire edifice to set aside the assessment order is

based upon the observation of the Hon'ble High Court and nothing

else. If this was foundation of setting aside the assessment order,

then this can no longer the basis, because the Hon'ble Supreme

Court against the said very judgment of Hon'ble Allahabad High 22 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 Court has reversed and set-aside the said observation of the Hon'ble

Court. For the sake of ready reference, the concluding part of the

judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 13.12.2019 is

reproduced hereunder:- 20. Thus, in the light of Hon'ble Supreme Court judgment, all the

observation made by the learned PCIT deserves to be quashed. 21. Apart from that, once the AO has carried out the necessary

verification of the details which was his reason to believe and

assuming jurisdiction under section 147 and has accepted the

explanation, then learned PCIT could not have set-aside the

assessment unless he himself founds any error or defect in such

material or in explanation. Thus, we agree with the contention of the

learned counsel for the assessee that once the entire order of the

Hon'ble High Court has been reversed and set-aside by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court, then the basis of setting aside itself does not stand.

Accordingly, the order of the learned PCIT is quashed and the order

of the AO is restored. 24 ITA No.1110/Del/2022 22. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is allowed.

Order pronounced in the open court on 04th March, 2024.