In June this year, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) released a draft amendment to the Telecom Cybersecurity Rules, 2024. Through this draft amendment, it has sought to introduce a new category of service providers within the scope of the rules. Called Telecom Identifier User Entities (TIUEs), these are entities that use telecom identifiers to validate their users or deliver their services.

The draft amendment brings in a range of obligations for these TIUEs, including following orders to suspend the use of certain telecom identifiers, providing data related to the telecom identifiers to the DoT, and validating users using a government-run Mobile Number Validation (MNV) platform based on government directions.

These rules run the risk of disrupting existing user onboarding flows, privacy frameworks, and cost structures. MediaNama’s discussion aimed to understand the impact of these rules on businesses of different scales, workflow disruptions, and onerous compliance requirements. It also sought to explore the privacy implications of the draft amendment for end users and the jurisdictional issues arising between the IT Ministry and the DoT.

The video of the event is available below:

Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), Google, Deepstrat, Ministry of Electronics & IT, Koan Advisory Group, Meta, Indiamart, PayU, Vodafone Idea, EY, IAMAI, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas, K&S Digiprotect Services, Snap Inc, Truecaller, Broadband India Forum, TQH – The Quantum Hub, Reliance Jio, Deloitte, Moneycontrol, The Hindu, Microsoft, Data Security Council of India (DSCI), Esya Centre, and Netflix.

Next up, we will publish stories from this discussion on our website in the coming days, so stay tuned. You can sign up for our free daily newsletter to stay updated with our latest stories.

If you’d like to sponsor future discussions at MediaNama, do reach out to us here .

This discussion is being organised with support from PhonePe, Truecaller and Meta. Our community partners for this event are Broadband India Forum, CUTS-International and the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF).

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event