This petition is filed under Section 166 of M.V. Act,
seeking compensation of Rs.12,00,000/- from
respondents on account of grievous injuries sustained
by petitioner in Road Traffic Accident. 2. The brief facts of the petition are that, on 31-
12-2019 at about 10.45 p.m., petitioner was proceeding
on motor bike, bearing No.KA-52-H-1660 as a pillion
rider, Manjunatha was riding the said bike on
Bengaluru-Tumkuru NH-48 road, opposite Pavarika
Factory i.e., from tumkur towards Bengaluru, with high
speed in a rash and negligent manner, so as to
endangering to human life, due to over speed lost
control over the bike and dashed against motor bike,
bearing No.KA-52-L-9237 which was coming from
Bengaluru towards Tumkur. Due to the impact,
petitioner fell down and sustained grievous injuries.
Immediately after the accident, he was shifted to
Nelamangala Government Hospital, Bengaluru, wherein
he took treatment as an outpatient and then he was
shifted to Victoria Hospital, Bengaluru, wherein he took
treatment as an inpatient. Earlier to the accident, he
 3 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

was working as Labour Contractor at Flipkart and
earning a sum of Rs.15,000/- per month. But, due to the
accidental injuries, he became permanently disabled
and whereby lost his earning capacity. Therefore,
petitioner prayed for compensation. 3. Despite service of notice, respondent No.2
remained absent and therefore, he was placed exparte. 3(a) Respondent No.1 denied the issuance of
insurance policy in respect of motorcycle, bearing
No.KA-52-H-1660 with other petition averments
generally and it contended that the rider of motorcycle
was not holding valid and effective driving licence to
ride the same at the time of accident, the petition is
bad for non compliance of provision under Sections
134(C) and 158(6) of M.V. Act, the motorcycle was not
at all involved in the alleged accident and there is no
nexus between the injuries and the alleged accident. As
without prejudice it contended that it is a self accident
and the petitioner himself was the rider of motorcycle
and self fall from the motorcycle. Further, it sought for
permission to contest even on behalf of respondent
No.2 under Section 170 of the M.V. Act. For the above
denials and contentions it prayed for dismissal of the
petition. 4. Based on the pleadings the following issues
came to be framed: 5. Petitioner got himself examined as PW1,
examined PW2 and marked 11 documents. Respondent
No.1 examined Radiologist and its Legal Manager as
RW1 and RW2 and got marked 4 documents.
Respondent No.2 is exparte. 6. Heard both sides. Perused the pleadings,
evidences and observations cited, on the basis findings
on the issues are as under: 7. Petitioner and respondent No.1 led their oral as
well as documentary evidences. Respondent No.2
remained exparte. This is being summary proceedings
 5 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

sum and substance of pleadings and evidences are
emphasized. The test for proof is preponderance of
probability herein. The petition averments and
objections are narrated above in brief facts of the case
and objections and hence those are not repeated in
avoidance of the repetition. Respondent No.1 disputed
the negligence, involvement of respondent No.2's
vehicle and issuance of insurance policy. The incident
and injuries are not in dispute. 8. Regarding negligence is concerned the
petitioner relied on police records viz., FIR wtih
complaint, spot mahazar, IMV report, wound certificate,
and charge sheet, which are marked in Ex.P1 to 3, 5
and 6. The charge sheet/final report filed by the
Nelamangala Traffic Police shows the negligence on the
part of rider of motorcycle, bearing No.KA-52-H-1660.
The brief facts of the final report read as follows: 9. The spot mahazar depicts the spot of
occurrence. No draft spot sketch is produced here. The
IMV report shows there was no mechanical defects in
the vehicles to the incident, and damages of the
vehicles i.e., damage of head lights mask right side
scratched of motorcycle bearing No.KA-52-L-9237 and
head light masks right side scratch and damage of
crash guard right side of the offending motorcycle,
which are the impacts of the incident. The accident was
not due to the mechanical defects in the sense, then
that could have been by the negligence only. The
wound certificate reveals one grievous injury and one
simple injury caused to the petitioner such as fracture
of left tibia and fibula and calcaneal bone and abrasion
measuring 4x5 cm over the left elbow. Now whose
negligence was there to the incident to be analyzed. No
eyewitness is examined herein. As already noted the
final report shows the negligence was on the part of the
 7 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

rider of the offending motorcycle. Respondent No-1
contended that according to Ex.R2- MLC there was
doubt regarding the involvement of vehicles as lorry or
motorcycle as the author of the MLC put question
marks which indicate as which lorry or bike. The
learned counsel for respondent No.1 argued that the
involvement of offending vehicle is doubtful, there
could be chances of hit by one of the lorries and that is
why the author of Ex.R2 put question mark or other
wise such question mark could not have been put. The
counsel cited the observations of hon'ble the High
Court of Karnataka, in the cases of The Divisional
Manager, United India Insurance Co. Ltd., Belagavi Vs.
Smt. Reshama and others case, report in ILR 2021 KAR
146, and Veerappa and another Vs. Siddappa and
another case, reported in ILR 2009 KAR 3562, which
throw a light on circumstance of fraud. But as per the
version of the author of Ex.R2 it appears that he
recorded the history of incident as informed by the
attendant for the injured. Here, respondent No.1 didn't
choose to the examine such attendant of the petitioner,
and moreover, no eyewitness is here is pertinent to
take note of. Per contra the learned counsel for
petitioner drew the attention of this tribunal about
Ex.P9, wherein in the history of injury it has been
recorded as, "Patient was a pillion rider in a two
wheeler and hit to unknown two wheeler", which clears
the doubtful circumstance regarding implications of the
 8 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

offending vehicle as contended by respondent No.1.
Such being the case, as respondent No.1 is not clear in
its evidence regarding non involvement of the offending
vehicle, its contentions stood unestablished. Hence,
without here being acceptable contrary evidence here
is no impediment to believe the police records
regarding the negligence as well as involvement of the
offending vehicle. Hence those are considered.
According to the police records respondent No.2 was
the owner of the offending motorcycle. 10. Regarding the contention of respondent No.1
about 4 days delay in lodging the first information
statement/complaint is concerned nothing is elicited in
supportive by it except suggesting the intentional delay
for implication of offending vehicle. However, as such
delay is concerned, in hurried attempts, in saving the
life of the injured and taking care of, naturally, there
might be such delay, which could be ignored in the
interest of saving of the life as there is no specific
evidence to say that the first information
statement/complaint is after thought one and the
reason assigned by the first informant/ complainant as
he had no knowledge and he was under the shock as
explained in the first information statement/complaint. 11. Regarding objections by respondent No.1 as to
non compliance of provision under Section 134(c) and 9 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

158(6) of MV Act is concerned as the petition reached
its finality and the petitioners approached the Tribunal,
respondent No.1 had already taken all the contentions
of respondent No.2 the giving of permission under Section 170 of MV Act, and discussion on the same now
does not arise. 12. Wherefore, for the foregoing reasons, it
establishes on preponderance of probability that the
petitioner met with motor vehicle accident on 31-12-
2019 at about 11.45 p.m., and sustained simple and
grievous injuries due to the rash and negligent riding of
the rider of respondent No.2's motorcycle. Hence, this
issue is answered affirmatively. ISSUE No.2: 13. In consideration of this issue disability,
avocation, age, income, laid up period, pain and
sufferings, medical bills, amenities, food, nourishment,
conveyance and future medical expenses are need to
be ascertained. Disability
 Wound certificate Ex.P5 reveals the injuries
caused to the petitioner such as 1) fracture of left tibia
and fibula and calcaneal bone and 2) abrasion
measuring 4x5 cm over the left elbow. According to it
the above said injury No.1 is grievous and injury No.2 is
 10 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

simple in nature. Discharge summary, which is at Ex.P4
shows that the petitioner had taken treatment as an
inpatient for a period of 13 days in Victoria Hospital and
underwent surgery. It is averred that because of the
injuries he suffered the disablement and from which he
lost or lessen his earning capacity. In proof of the
disablement he examined PW2- Orthopaedic Surgeon
from Victoria Hospital, who assessed the disability of
petitioner, opined that the petitioner suffered
permanent physical disability of left lower limb at 30%
and to the whole body at 15%. His evidences clear that
he is not the treated doctor, it is stated that one more
surgery is required to petitioner for removal of
implants, which means that disability has been
assessed before the completion of the full treatment. In
fact, as per the gazette notification issued by Ministry
of Social Justice of Government of India, the disability
should be assessed after the treatment is completed.
As far as this case is concerned, if the disability would
be assessed after the future surgery, perhaps, there
would have been reduction in the percentage of the
disability. Therefore, it would say that the assessment
of disability is premature and may be excessive.
Although, under the facts and circumstances of the
case and having regard to the nature of the injuries and
the fracture came to be united, the disability to the
whole body is taken to be considered at 10% as
disablement as the disability assessed is an opinion of
 11 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

the doctor and no certificate of disability is produced
from the competent authority. Avocation
 It is averred that the petitioner was working as
Labour Contractor. However, no document is
forthcoming regarding avocation of petitioner is
concerned. Hence it is not established that the
petitioner was working as Labour Contractor, hence in
the present case, avocation of the petitioner is need to
be considered notionally as he had notional income
only. Age
 As per Ex.P8 - aadhar card, date of birth of the
petitioner was 08-08-1998 and so that, age of the
petitioner was 21 years at the time of incident. Hence,
it is considered. Income
 As discussed on the head of avocation, the
petitioner's avocation taken to be considered notionally.
In this regard as per the resolution of hon'ble the
Karnataka State Legal Service Authority, dated 17-02-
2022 notional income for the year 2019 came to be
fixed at Rs.14,000/. In the present case, under the
facts and circumstances of the case, Rs.14,000/- is
taken to be considered as notional income of the
petitioner, per month. 12 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

 Considering the avocation and income notionally
now loss of future income due to disability needs to be
calculated. According to the determined age of the
petitioner multiplier is 18. So, 10% of monthly notional
income comes to Rs.1,400/- x 12 months x multiplier 18
= Rs.3,02,400/- it is considered as compensation
under the head of loss of future income due to the
disablement. Laid up period and Pain and sufferings

 Petitioner was treated as inpatient from 01-01-
2020 to 13-01-2020. He underwent operation. He
suffered fractures. So that, he could have suffered pains
and sufferings and also lost his earnings at the time of
his treatment as well as his nourishment at least for the
period of 4 months. It is therefore, it is just and proper
to award compensation considering his pains and
sufferings and for his laid up period. Hence, it is opined
that four months' notional income of Rs.56,000/- +
Rs.50,000/- for pains and sufferings = Rs.1,06,000/-
will be just and proper in compensation for laid up
period and pain and sufferings. Medical Bills: 13 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

has not produced any medical bills or prescriptions.
Hence, no compensation is awarded under this head. Amenities and happiness: 14 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

compensation is just and proper. Hence, it is considered
so. Future medical expenses
 The evidence of the doctor reveals that petitioner
needs one more surgery for removal of implants which
could cost up to Rs.8,000/- to Rs.10,000/-. Herein being
no estimation by the doctor, the expenditure that would
costs in the government undertaking hospital for such
surgery is considered and Rs.8,000/- is awarded under
this head. 14. Accordingly, details of compensations are as
under: 15. In all, the petitioner is entitled for
compensation of Rs.4,96,400/-. Keeping in view the
interest on the savings by the nationalized banks, in the
present case, from the date of petition only the interest
 15 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

at 6% per annum is considered to be directed till its
realization except future medical expenses. So, the
petitioner is entitled to the interest at 6% per annum on
the compensation amount. Liability: 16. Non issuance of insurance policy, invalidity or
no breaches are established by the insurer. As found on
the discussions on issue No.1, the negligence was on
the part of the rider of the offending motorcycle. On
vicarious liability respondent No.2 being the owner is
responsible, respondent No.1 being the insurer of
respondent No.2 contractually liable to pay
compensation. Thus, respondent No.1 and 2 are jointly
and severally liable to pay compensation. However,
initially respondent No.1 is liable to pay the determined
compensation. The petitioner is only entitled to such
compensation and not fully as claimed for. Accordingly,
this issue stands answered partly in the affirmative. ISSUE No.3: 17. In view of the findings, the petition deserves
to be allowed in part. Hence, the following order is
passed: The respondents are jointly and
 severally liable to pay the award
 amount. However, the primary liability
 to pay the compensation amount is
 fastened on the respondent No.1 -Insurance Company and it is directed
 to pay the compensation amount within
 two months from the date of this order. deposited in the name of the petitioner
 as FD in any nationalized bank for a
 period of two years with liberty to draw
 the accrued interest periodically and
 the remaining 70% amount with
 proportionate interest shall be released
 to him through E-payment on proper
 identification and verification. Advocate's fee is fixed at Rs.2,000/-.
 17 (SCCH-16) MVC 630/2020

 Draw an award accordingly. (Dictated to the stenographer, directly on computer, typed
by him, corrected and then pronounced in the open court
this the 08th day of September 2022)

 (Sudeen Kumar D.J.)
 Member, MACT, Bengaluru. ANNEXURE
Witnesses examined on behalf of petitioner: Documents marked on behalf of petitioner: