and 30.04.2012. The Corporation was appointed as nodal

 agency and such procurement was to be made through Primary

 Agriculture Credit and Coopertative Societies (for short „PACCS‟).

 Where PACCS were not available, the Corporation was authorized to

 purchase paddy from the Purchase Centres established in that regard

 and payment was to be made through account payee cheques. Such

 procured paddy by PACCS was to be sold to the Corporation. It was

 further decided that the target was to procure 30 lakh Metric Tonnes

 paddy for procurement year 2011-12 and milling of paddy was to be

 made by the rice mills. Similar guidelines were issued by the

 Government of Bihar for procurement year 2012-13 and 2013-14. He

 has contended that the Government had fixed the date for deposit of

 CMR from 15.11.2011 to 15.10.2012, which was extended upto

 31.12.2012 for the financial year 2011-12, and with respect to the

 procurement year 2012-13, CMR was to be deposited in between

 15.11.2012 and 13.10.2013, which was extended upto 31.12.2013 and

 for the procurement year 2013-14, CMR was to be deposited upto
 53 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 53 / 83 30.09.2014, which was extended upto 31.12.2014. The Corporation

 entered into the agreement with the Mill owners to deposit CMR

 within the time limit prescribed by the State. None of the millers

 protested the time limit and they willingly entered into agreement.

 However, the millers failed to deposit the CMR after receiving paddy

 and misappropriated huge quantities of paddy causing wrongful loss

 to the Corporation for a corresponding gain for themselves. It is

 further contended that till date over 1500 FIRs have been instituted

 against the defaulter millers for the financial years 2011-12, 2012-13

 and 2013-14. It is further submitted that several officials of the

 Corporation are also being prosecuted for their alleged involvement in

 the large scale irregularity/illegality committed in the alleged offence.

 The State-owned Corporation has sustained a multi-crore loss owing

 to non-delivery of several lakh quintals of CMR against the paddy

 released to the rice millers in advance in different districts of the State

 of Bihar. He has submitted that the allegations made in the FIRs do

 attract the ingredients of a cognizable offence and, as such, the

 investigations should not be interdicted at the threshold. 15. I have heard the learned Counsel for the respective

 parties and have given my thoughtful consideration to the submissions

 made by them. 16. Before examining the respective contentions on merits, it
 54 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 54 / 83 would be appropriate to analyze the legal proposition vis-à-vis the

 contentions raised by the counsel for the parties. 17. Sections 406 and 409 IPC prescribe punishment for

 criminal breach of trust. Section 405 IPC defines the offence of

 criminal breach of trust, which reads as under : 18. A careful reading of Section 405 IPC shows that a criminal

 breach of trust involves the following ingredients:- 55 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 55 / 83 19. The crucial word used in Section 405 IPC is

 „dishonestly‟, and therefore, it implies the existence of mens rea, that

 is to say, a guilty mind. Dishonest intention is the gist of the offence.

 The offence of criminal breach of trust is completed by the

 misappropriation or conversion of the property dishonestly. The word

 „dishonestly‟ is defined in Section 24 IPC, which reads as under :- 20. A person can be said to have dishonest intention if in

 taking the property it is his intention to cause gain by unlawful means,

 of the property even if he is not legally entitled to or to cause loss, by

 wrongful means of property which the person loosing is entitled. The

 actual intention to convert the illegal or doubtful claim into an

 apparently legal one makes the action dishonest. The phrases

 „wrongful gain and wrongful loss‟ have been defined under section 23 IPC, which reads as under :- 56 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 56 / 83 21. It would be evident from the definition of phrases

 „wrongful gain and wrongful loss‟ that when the owner is kept out of

 the property with the object of depriving him of the benefit arising

 from the possession even temporarily, the case will come within the

 definition of „wrongful gain and wrongful loss‟. 22. It would, thus, appear that for the offences punishable

 under section 406 IPC, the prosecution must prove :- 23. Having considered the definition of Sections 23 , 24 and 405 IPC, it would be evident that the gist of the offence prescribed

 under section 406 IPC, is misappropriation done in a dishonest

 manner. There are two distinct parts of the said offence. The first

 involves the fact of entrustment, wherein an obligation arises in

 relation to the property over which dominion or control is acquired.

 The second part deals with misappropriation which should be contrary

 to the terms of the obligation which is created. 24. The offence of cheating is defined under section 415 IPC,
 57 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 57 / 83 which reads as under :- 25. The Section consists of two distinct parts, each part

 dealing with one way of cheating, (i) the first part contemplates where

 by deception practiced upon a person the accused dishonestly or

 fraudulently induces that person to deliver a property to any person or

 to consent that any person shall retain any property, (ii) the second

 part envisages where by deception practiced upon a person the

 accused intentionally induces that person to do or omit to do so, if he

 were not so deceived, and which act or omission causes or is likely to

 cause damage or harm to that person in body, mind, reputation or

 property. 26. The offence punishable under section 420 IPC reads as

 under:- 27. The essential ingredients of Section 420 IPC are: make, alter or destroy any valuable security or
 anything which is sealed or signed or is capable of
 being converted into a valuable security, and (iii) mens rea of the accused at the time of making the
 inducement. 28. It would be evident from the pleadings of the parties that

 there is no dispute to the fact that the petitioners had received paddy

 from the Corporation and they were required to mill the rice. There is

 also no dispute that the petitioners failed to return the contracted

 quantity of rice. Whether or not their default would be

 misappropriation punishable under Sections 406 and 409 IPC, is a

 question of fact, to be adjudicated during trial. The contention of the

 learned counsel for the petitioners that the dispute in the present case

 arises from a breach of contract and therefore, the petitioners default

 would not attract the criminal consequences seems to be logically

 unsound. A thin line divides criminal breach of trust and civil

 liabilities arising from breach of contract. There is no absolute rule of
 59 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 59 / 83 law nor can any such rule be laid down that on a given set of facts

 only civil or criminal consequence would ensue and vice versa. Every

 case has its own peculiar facts. The mere fact that the petitioners

 alleged that their default is a mere breach of contract cannot be

 accepted in the facts and circumstances of the present case. 29. Another argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners,

 in support of their plea for quashing the FIRs, is that the agreement

 provides for other remedies like institution of civil suit and resolution

 of dispute through arbitration proceeding and, therefore, criminal

 prosecution is not tenable. This contention is also erroneous. These

 remedies are civil consequences of the breach of contract and cannot

 be pressed into service to quash the FIRs. If this argument is to be

 accepted, then in no case of breach of contract, a criminal prosecution

 would lie. The arbitration clause enables the parties to seek

 adjudication of civil consequences of violation of a contract. The

 arbitration clause does not envisage adjudication of criminal

 consequences of an alleged breach of contract. 30. In my opinion, the decision of the Supreme Court in Bal

 Kishan Das (Supra) and Kailash Verma (Supra), on which reliance

 has been placed by the learned counsel for the petitioners, do not lay

 down any absolute proposition of law that existence of an arbitration

 clause or pendency of an arbitration proceeding would automatically
 60 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 60 / 83 entail in quashing of the FIR. In the aforesaid case, after examining

 the facts of the case and specifically taking note of the fact that after

 registration of a case under section 409 IPC, the Vigilance

 Department dropped the case and that arbitration proceedings were

 pending for more than 17 years, the Supreme Court quashed the

 criminal proceeding. The facts of the case of Bal Kishan Das (Supra)

 cannot be pressed into service in the present case in support of the

 plea for quashing of the FIRs. It cannot be construed to be a precedent

 for the proposition that existence of arbitration clause bars filing of

 FIR for an offence under Sections 406 and 409 IPC. 31. The facts of Kailash Verma (Supra) also do not lay down

 any absolute proposition that the existence of an arbitration clause

 would necessarily oust the right of an aggrieved party to lodge an FIR

 nor does the aforementioned judgment lay down any absolute rule of

 law that existence of arbitration clause, would bar criminal

 proceedings. In Kailash Verma (Supra), the appellant (accused) was

 discharged by the Chief Judicial Magistrate. The order of the Chief

 Judicial Magistrate was challenged by the Corporation in revision

 before the Court of Sessions Judge. The Sessions Judge, after

 elaborately considering the question raised, upheld the order passed

 by the Chief Judicial Magistrate. The Corporation filed a further

 revision before the High Court and the High Court set aside the order
 61 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 61 / 83 passed by the Sessions Judge as well as the order passed by the Chief

 Judicial Magistrate and the matter was remitted to the trial Court. The

 order passed by the High Court was challenged before the Supreme

 Court in appeal. The Supreme Court held that the High Court was not

 justified in exercising its inherent power under section 482 of the

 Code of Criminal Procedure (for short „ Cr.P.C .‟). It further held that it

 cannot be said either that there was miscarriage of justice warranting

 interference by the High Court, and therefore, it set aside the

 judgment of the High Court. The order of discharge passed by the

 Chief Judicial Magistrate in favour of the appellant was therefore

 affirmed by the Supreme Court. While setting aside the order of the

 High Court, the Supreme Court held that as there was no prima facie

 evidence to show that the paddy was supplied to the accused and that

 there was shortage of rice supplied to the Corporation, and the dispute

 disclosed being civil in nature, the appellant could not be prosecuted. 32. However, in the cases under consideration before this

 Court, there are specific allegations of entrustment of paddy and

 failure of the petitioners to deliver rice and therefore, the judgment of

 the Supreme Court in Kailash Verma (Supra) cannot be pressed into

 service by the petitioners to seek quashing of the FIRs in question. 33. Learned counsel for the petitioners have contended that

 the dispute involved in the FIRs is of civil nature and none of the acts
 62 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 62 / 83 allegedly committed by the petitioners gave rise to any criminal

 liability. In support of their submissions they have relied on the

 decisions of the Supreme Court in Hriday Ranjan Prasad Verma v.

 State of Bihar (Supra), Murari Lal Gupta v. Gopi Singh (Supra), Ram Birji Devi & Anr. v. Umesh Kumar Singh and Anr. (Supra ), S.

 W. Palanitkar & Ors. v. State of Bihar & Anr. (Supra), Anil

 Mahajan v. Bhor Industries Ltd. (Supra), Thermax Ltd. Vs.

 K.M.Johny (Supra ) and Dalip Kaur Vs. Jagarnath Singh (Supra). 34. In most of the decisions on which reliance has been

 placed by the learned counsel for the petitioners, the stage was of post

 cognizance, but here, in cases under consideration, the petitioners

 have prayed for quashing of the FIRs at the crucial stage of

 investigation. Hence, the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court in

 those cases would not apply to the facts of the cases under

 consideration before this Court. Moreover, there can be no dispute

 with the legal proposition laid down in the aforesaid decisions of the

 Supreme Court that if the complaint discloses only a simple case of

 dispute between the parties and there is absolute absence of requisite

 averments to make out a case of cheating, the criminal proceeding can

 be quashed. However, it cannot be said from the allegations made in

 the FIRs under consideration that there is absolute absence of requisite

 averment to make out a case of criminal breach of trust and cheating.
 63 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 63 / 83 35. The petitioners have also placed reliance on the decision

 of the Supreme Court in Uma Shankar Gopalika v. State of Bihar

 (Supra), wherein the Supreme Court has observed in paragraph 7 as

 under:- 36. In the abovementioned case, the Supreme Court has

 taken the view that since the complaint does not disclose any offence,

 the proceeding is liable to be quashed under Section 482 Cr. P.C.

 However, the same is not the situation in the cases under

 consideration. In cases under consideration, there is no denial to the

 facts that paddy was given to the mill owners without taking rice from

 them. According to the agreements/understandings between the

 parties, the mill owners had to provide 67% CMR in return to the

 Corporation against the paddy received by them. The mill owners

 defaulted in returning the CMR, as a result of which, the Corporation

 sustained a huge loss. It is a clear case in which the petitioners were
 64 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 64 / 83 entrusted or had exercised dominion over the paddy belonging to the

 Corporation and further they had unlawfully retained the same. In the

 face of said allegations in the FIRs, it cannot be said that the FIRs

 filed by the corporation are shorn of necessary allegations to prima

 facie attract the ingredients of criminal breach of trust punishable

 under Sections 406 and 409 IPC. 37. In the matter of Binod Kumar and ors. (Supra), a

 decision on which the petitioners have placed reliance, the question

 before the Supreme Court was whether the charges under Section 406 IPC for allegedly retaining the bill amount payable by the appellant to

 respondent no. 2 was liable to be set aside. In the aforementioned

 case, the dispute related to non-payment of bill amount of Rs.34,505/-

 pertaining to a contract executed by the respondent no. 2. The contract

 was entered into between respondent no. 2 and K.S.S. College on

 04.09.1990 for the construction of building of K.S.S. College,

 Lakhisarai, a constituent unit of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University.

 According to the second respondent, since money and material

 requisites were not given to him in time, the work was not completed

 within the stipulated period. The University vide letter dated

 09.05.1995 informed respondent no. 2 that his contract is terminated

 and all his dues including final bill, earnest money and security

 deposit, etc. will be released after consultation with the College
 65 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 65 / 83 Development Committee. The University Engineer vide letter dated

 04.06.1996, addressed to the Principal of the College, informed that

 payment of Rs.48,505/- is payable to the contractor, but the

 respondent was paid Rs.14000/- vide cheque as per direction of the

 College Development Committee and balance amount of Rs.34,505/-

 was not paid to him. Aggrieved by the said non-payment of the entire

 amount, respondent no. 2 filed criminal complaint in the Court of

 Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Lakhisarai for criminal breach of

 trust. After the cognizance was taken and the matter reached the stage

 of framing of charge, an application for discharge was filed before the

 learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Lakhisarai. Learned Sub-

 Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Lakhisarai dismissed the said petition

 and directed the appellant to remain present in Court for framing

 charges under Sections 406 and 120-B IPC. The appellant filed a

 petition under Section 482 Cr.P.C. before the High Court for quashing

 of the said order. The High Court dismissed the petition. Aggrieved

 by the same, the appellant moved before the Supreme Court. After

 taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case, the

 Supreme Court held that the essential ingredients of dishonest

 misappropriation and cheating are missing and hence the prosecution

 of the appellant under Section 406 and 120-B IPC was quashed. 38. The facts narrated hereinabove would make it evident
 66 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 66 / 83 that in the aforementioned case, there was no entrustment. The dispute

 related to retention of bill payable to a contractor on execution of a

 contract work. There also existed a dispute relating to execution of

 contract work. The facts of the case of Binod Kumar (Supra) were

 quite distinct from the facts of the cases under consideration before

 this Court. Further, in Binod Kumar (Supra) the stage at which the

 matter was considered by the Supreme Court was the stage of framing

 of charge. Here in the cases under consideration the prayer of the

 petitioner is to quash the FIRs, which are still under investigation. In

 my view, the law laid by the Supreme Court in the aforesaid case

 cannot be pressed into service to the facts of the present case for the

 purpose of quashing the FIRs in question. 39. I also find that the facts of the case of Joseph Salvaraja

 (Supra) are also not identical to the facts of the present case and hence

 the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court in that case would be of no

 help to the petitioners of the present case 40. The legal position with regard to exercise of inherent

 jurisdiction under Section 482 Cr. P.C. or extraordinary jurisdiction

 under Article 226 of the Constitution by the High Court is by now

 well-settled. 41. It has been held by the Supreme Court in Onkar Nath

 Mishra Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ) [(2008)2 SCC 561], that in the
 67 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 67 / 83 commission of the offence of criminal breach of trust, two distinct

 parts are involved. The first consists of the creation of an obligation in

 relation to the property over which dominion or control is acquired by

 the accused. The second is a misappropriation or dealing with the

 property dishonestly and contrary to the terms of the obligation

 created. 42. In Jai Krishan Das Manohar Das Desai Vs. State of

 Bombay [AIR 1960 SC 889], it has been held by the Supreme Court

 in paragraph 4 as under:- (Underlining mine for emphasis) 43. Further, in Bhaskar Lal Sharma & Anr. Vs. Monika &
 68 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 68 / 83 Ors. [(2014) 3 SCC 383], a three-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court

 considered the question regarding making out of a case under Section

 406 IPC. In the aforementioned case, in complaint petition, it was

 alleged that the appellants (Parents-in-law of respondent) were

 entrusted or had exercised dominion over the property belonging to

 the respondent and further that the appellants had unlawfully retained

 the same. After examining the aforesaid allegations while dismissing

 the appeal and directing the trial to be completed expeditiously, it

 observed in paragraph 12 as under:- 44. Learned counsel for the Corporation has rightly relied

 upon the decisions of the Supreme Court in Trisuns Chemical

 Industry (Supra) in this regard. In the aforementioned judgment, the

 Supreme Court has held that quashing of FIR or a complaint in
 69 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 69 / 83 exercise of inherent power of the High Court should be limited to very

 extreme exceptions. Merely because an act has a civil profile is not

 sufficient to denude it of its criminal outfit. The provision

 incorporated in the agreement for referring the disputes to arbitration

 is not an effective substitute for a criminal prosecution when the

 disputed act is an offence. The Supreme Court has further held that

 arbitration is a remedy for affording reliefs to the party affected by

 breach of the agreement but the arbitrator cannot conduct a trial of any

 act which amounted to an offence albeit the same act may be

 connected with the discharge of any function under the agreement.

 Hence, those are not good reasons for the High Court to axe down the

 complaint at the threshold itself. The Supreme Court held that the

 investigating agency should have had the freedom to go into the

 whole gamut of the allegations and to reach a conclusion of its own. 45. In Pratibha Rani Vs. Suraj Kumar & another [(1985) 2

 SCC 370], the question arose before the Supreme Court that when

 civil as well as criminal remedy is available to the party, can criminal

 prosecution be completely barred . In the aforementioned case, the

 accused contended that the dispute was of civil nature and no criminal

 prosecution would lie. After discussing the facts of the case, the

 Supreme Court held in paragraph 21 as under :- (Underlining mine for emphasis) 46. The same view was again reiterated with added emphasis

 in the case of Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC India Ltd. [(2006) 6

 SCC 736], where the Supreme Court in paragraph 12 held as under :- For this purpose, the complaint has to be
 examined as a whole, but without examining the
 merits of the allegations. Neither a detailed
 inquiry nor a meticulous analysis of the material
 nor an assessment of the reliability or genuineness
 of the allegations in the complaint, is warranted
 while examining prayer for quashing of a
 complaint. (ii) A complaint may also be quashed where it is
 a clear abuse of the process of the court, as when
 the criminal proceeding is found to have been
 initiated with mala fides/malice for wreaking
 vengeance or to cause harm, or where the
 allegations are absurd and inherently improbable. (iii) The power to quash shall not however, be
 used to stifle or scuttle a legitimate prosecution.
 71 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 71 / 83 The power should be used sparingly and with
 abundant caution. (iv) The complaint is not required to verbatim
 reproduce the legal ingredients of the offence
 alleged. If the necessary factual foundation is laid
 in the complaint, merely on the ground that a few
 ingredients have not been stated in detail, the
 proceedings should not be quashed. Quashing of
 the complaint is warranted only where the
 complaint is so bereft of even the basic facts
 which are absolutely necessary for making out the
 offence. (v) A given set of facts may make out:(a) purely a
 civil wrong; or (b) purely criminal offence; or (c)
 a civil wrong as also a criminal offence. A
 commercial transaction or a contractual dispute,
 apart from furnishing a cause of action for seeking
 remedy in civil law, may also involve a criminal
 offence. As the nature and scope of a civil
 proceeding are different from a criminal
 proceeding, the mere fact that the complaint
 relates to a commercial transaction or breach of
 contract, for which a civil remedy is available or
 has been availed, is not by itself a ground to quash
 the criminal proceedings. The test is whether the
 allegations in the complaint disclose a criminal
 offence or not." (Underlining mine for emphasis) 47. Recently in Vijayander Kumar and others Vs. State of

 Rajasthan and another [(2014) 3 SCC 389], a three-Judge Bench of

 the Supreme Court held that a given set of facts may make out a civil

 wrong as also a criminal offence and only because civil remedy may

 also be available to the informant/complainant that itself cannot be a

 ground for quashing the criminal proceeding. It further held that the

 real test is whether the allegations in the complaint discloses a
 72 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 72 / 83 criminal offence or not. 48. Since the writ petitioners seek quashing of respective

 FIRs lodged against them, the question before this Court is whether

 the FIRs can be quashed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India

 at the threshold when the matter is still under investigation. In my

 opinion, the FIRs under consideration do attract ingredients of a

 cognizable offence. There is allegation of dishonest misappropriation

 of paddy in huge quantity. Though the rice millers were under

 obligation to return the rice to the extent of 67% of the paddy supplied

 to them, in several cases, either no CMR was returned at all or there

 was huge shortfall in returning CMR. This Court would take judicial

 notice of the fact that the Corporation has sustained loss of multi-

 crores due to non-delivery of several lakh quintals of CMR against the

 paddy released to the rice millers in advance in almost all the districts

 of the State of Bihar. The paddy was given to the rice millers without

 taking rice from them. It is a matter of concern as to how an offence

 of identical nature could happen throughout the State of Bihar. There

 is also an allegation of conspiracy in many of the FIRs under

 consideration. It has been brought to the notice of the Court that many

 officials of the Corporation are also being prosecuted for their alleged

 involvement in siphoning off huge public money. 49. The scope and power of the High Court to quash an FIR
 73 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 73 / 83 either in exercise of powers conferred under Section 482 Cr.P.C. or

 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India has been explained by

 the Supreme Court in a series of decisions. It has consistently held in State of West Bengal and Ors. v. Swapan Kumar [AIR 1982 SC

 949], Madhavrao Jiwajirao Scindia v. Sambhajirao Chandrojirao

 Angre, [ AIR 1988 SC 709], Rupan Deol Bajaj v. Kanwar Pal Singh

 Gill , [( 1995) 6 SCC 194], Janata Dal v. H.S. Chaudhary & Ors. [AIR 1993 SC 892], G. Sagar Suri & Anr. v. State of U.P. & Ors;

 [(2000) 2 SCC 636], and Ajay Mitra v. State of M.P. [(2003) 3 SCC

 11], that the court, under its extraordinary or inherent powers, can

 neither intervene at an uncalled for stage nor it can soft-pedal the

 course of justice at a crucial stage of investigation. It has further held

 that the power of quashing the criminal proceedings has to be

 exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the

 rarest of rare cases and the court cannot be justified in embarking

 upon an inquiry as to the reliability of the genuineness or otherwise of

 the allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the extraordinary

 and inherent powers of the Court do not confer an arbitrary

 jurisdiction on the court to act according to its whims and caprice. 50. In L.V. Jadhav Vs. Shankarrao Abasaheb Pawar & Ors. [AIR 1983 SC 1219], the Supreme Court held that the Courts power is

 limited only to examine as to whether the allegations are patently
 74 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 74 / 83 absurd and inherently improbable so as to no prudent person can reach

 to a just conclusion and that there is sufficient ground for proceeding

 against the accused. But the Court, at that stage, cannot go into truth

 or falsity of the allegation. 51. In State of U.P. Vs. O.P. Sharma [J.T. 1996(2) 488], the

 Supreme Court has indicated that the High Court should be loath to

 interfere at the threshold to thwart the prosecution, exercising its

 inherent power under Section 482 of the Cr. P.C. or under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India, as the case may be, and allow the

 law to take its own course. 52. While dealing with the contours of inherent power under

 Section 482 Cr. P.C. to quash a criminal proceeding, in Padal

 Venkata Rama Reddy Vs. Kovvuri Satya Narayan Reddy [(2011) 12

 SCC 437], the Supreme Court after an exhaustive consideration of the

 principle governing the exercise of said power as laid down in its

 earlier decisions held that the said power should not be exercised to

 stifle a legitimate prosecution. In the aforementioned judgment it

 observed "when exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the

 Code, the High Court would not ordinarily embark upon an inquiry

 whether the offence in question is reliable or not or whether on

 reasonable appreciation of it accusation would be not sustained that is

 the function of the trial court. The scope and exercise of power under
 75 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 75 / 83 Section 482 and the categories of cases whether the High Court may

 exercise its power under it relating to cognizable offences to prevent

 abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of

 justice were set out in detail in Bhajan Lal (supra). The powers

 possessed by the High Court under Section 482 are very wide and at

 the same time the power requires great caution in its exercise. The

 Court must be careful to see that its decision in exercise of this power

 is based on sound principles. The inherent power should not be

 exercised to stifle a legitimate prosecution. It would not be proper for

 the Court to analyze the case of the complainant in the light of the

 probabilities in order to determine whether conviction would be

 sustainable or on such premise arriving at the conclusion that the

 proceedings are to be quashed." 53. In Homi Rajvansh Vs. State of Maharashtra and Ors. [(2014) 12 SCC 556], a three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court

 reiterated that the inherent power under Section 482 Cr. P.C. and the

 extraordinary power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India

 should be exercised sparingly with great care and caution. In the

 aforementioned decision in paragraph 19 it held as under:- (Underlining mine for emphasis) 54. In Mrs. Rupan Deol Bajaj & Anr vs Kanwar Pal Singh

 Gill & Anr [(1995) 6 SCC 194], the Supreme Court held in paragraph

 23 that "at the stage of quashing an FIR or complaint the High Court

 is not justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the probability,

 reliability or genuineness of the allegations made therein." 55. In R. P. Kapur vs. State of Punjab [AIR 1960 SC 866],

 the Supreme Court held that quashing of a criminal proceeding was

 permissible only on following three grounds:- 56. Similarly, in Nagawwa's case (supra), it was held that

 the Magistrate while issuing process against accused must satisfy

 himself as to whether the allegation in complaint petition on being

 proved would ultimately end in the conviction of the accused. It was

 held that the order of magistrate issuing process against accused could

 be quashed only under the following circumstances:- 78 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 78 / 83 57. In State of Haryana & Others Vs. Bhajan Lal and

 Others (Supra), certain parameters have been pointed out in paragraph

 102 by the Supreme Court under which prosecution launched in a

 complaint or FIR may be quashed in exercise of jurisdiction under

 Section 482 of the Code. It reads as under:- (4) Where, the allegations in the F.I.R. do not
 constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only
 a non-cognizable offence, no investigation is
 permitted by a police officer without an order of a
 Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2)
 of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or
 complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable
 on the basis of which no prudent person can ever
 reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient
 ground for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted
 in any of the provisions of the Code or the
 concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding
 is instituted) to the institution and continuance of
 the proceedings and/or where there is a specific
 provision in the Code or the concerned Act,
 providing efficacious redress for the grievance of
 the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly
 attended with mala fide and/or where the
 proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the
 accused and with a view to spite him due to
 private and personal grudge." 58. After laying down seven parameters in paragraph 102,

 relating to exercise of extra-ordinary power under Article 226 of the

 Constitution or inherent powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. for

 quashing of the FIR, either to prevent abuse of the process of the

 Court or otherwise to secure ends of justice, the Supreme Court held

 in paragraph 103 as under :- 59. While arguing the matters, the learned Counsel for the

 petitioners have tried to draw my attention towards several documents

 annexed to the writ petitions in support of their defence. In my

 opinion, for the purpose of quashing of FIR it would not be proper for

 this Court to look into the defence documents. In this regard, it would

 be apt to quote paragraph 18 of the decision of the Supreme Court in Ravindra Kumar Madhanlal Goenka & Vs. M/S Rugmini Ram

 Raghav Spinners [(2009) 11 SCC 529], which is as under :- 81 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 81 / 83 60. Thus, from the aforementioned decisions of the Supreme

 Court, it stands well settled that if the facts stated in the FIR or

 complaint petition would make out the ingredients of the offence

 alleged therein, the High Court either in exercise of its extraordinary

 power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India or its inherent

 power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. would not quash the proceeding

 merely because the same have attributes to a civil dispute. It would

 further be evident from the decisions of the Supreme Court referred to

 hereinabove in the case of Indian Oil Corporation Vs. NEPC India

 Ltd. (Supra ) and R. Kalayani Vs. Janak C. Mehta (Supra ) that the

 nature and scope of civil proceedings is entirely different from the

 criminal proceedings. The mere fact that the allegations relate to a

 commercial transaction or breach of contract for which civil remedy is

 available or has been availed is not a ground to quash the criminal

 proceedings. 61. Considering the facts of the cases under consideration

 and the decisions of the Supreme Court referred to hereinabove, I am

 of the firm view that the FIRs in question cannot and should not be

 quashed. The FIRs of the aforementioned cases are nascent

 documents, averments of which would take tangible shape only after

 the process of investigation in these cases is complete. On appraisal of

 the allegations made in the FIRs under consideration, I am unable to
 82 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 82 / 83 hold that they do not disclose the commission of any cognizable

 offence, or that they merely disclose a breach of contract, or that

 existence of an arbitration clause, or pendency of a certificate

 proceeding or arbitration proceeding, ousts the jurisdiction of the

 investigating agency to investigate the offences alleged. The hazy

 picture presented by the allegations made in the FIRs would be

 rendered more and more clear when all the incriminating materials

 unfold during investigation. Even the names and other details of the

 culprits involved in the crime would be fully revealed only after the

 investigation culminates. In my opinion, if before all material facts are

 unearthed by the investigating agency and the FIRs are nipped in the

 bud, there cannot be greater injustice. 62. Given the quantity and magnitude of the multi-crore

 paddy scam and loss caused to the exchequer, a thorough probe with

 fairness and without inordinate delay is the need of the hour. The

 investigating agency must exhibit sensitivity to pilferage of public

 money. It must unravel the modus operandi adopted for swindling

 public money, identify the characters involved and the beneficiaries of

 the scam, unveil the criminal conspiracy, and the role ascribed to each

 conspirator. 63. Looking at the magnitude of the offence, the

 Superintendents of Police concerned are directed to personally
 83 Patna High Court Cr. WJC No.931 of 2015 dt.05-10-2015 83 / 83 supervise and monitor the investigations of the cases in which there is

 allegation of dishonest misappropriation of paddy. The

 Superintendents of Police would be at liberty to direct further

 investigation in terms of clause (8) of Section 173 Cr.P.C. in the cases

 in which investigation has been completed and reports under clause

 (2) of Section 173 Cr.P.C. have been submitted, in order to unravel

 and unveil the conspiracy leading to the State-owned Corporation

 sustained huge losses. 64. In view of the discussions made hereinabove, the writ

 petitions are dismissed. 65. It is made clear that nothing stated herein shall be

 construed to be an expression of opinion on the merits of the

 controversy. The petitioners would be at liberty to raise all the pleas

 raised in the present writ petitions before the trial Court at the

 appropriate stage. 66. The Registry is directed to send a copy of the order to all

 the Superintendents of Police of the State of Bihar at their respective

 official e-mail addresses. (Ashwani Kumar Singh, J)
 Pradeep/- AFR.