Muncipal Corporation of Delhi
 Hindu Rao Hospital,
 Delhi

 RTI application filed on : 29.07.2008
 PIO replied : 26.02.2009
 First Appeal filed on : 16.03.2009
 First Appellate Authority order : 18.03.2009
 Second Appeal received on : 13.04.2009

The Appellant had sought for information regarding following: Sl. Information sought for PIO's reply 1. Why the commission goes on full blown Does not pertain to Hindu
 advertisements on the occasion of Vigilance Rao Hospital.
 week when it is not able handle/investigate all
 the corruption related complaint that comes to it? 2. Is it a honey trap to identify & punches the Does not pertain to Hindu
 whistle blowers for daring to expose the rot in Rao Hospital.
 the system in which they are working? 3.(a) Please give me the details of Group-A officers in Does not pertain to Hindu
 Delhi, against whom investigations for Rao Hospital.
 disproportionate assets case or other cases of
 financial irregularities, & corruption was made
 in last 15 years, with their names & designation.
 3(b) How many of them were kept under suspension Does not pertain to Hindu
 pending enquiry with our assigning any reasons, Rao Hospital.
 during investigation or enquiry. 4. On Dt. 18.05.2005 we had submitted a letter
 regarding "Hindu Rao Hospital Medicine
 purchase scam and embezzlement of Govt, funds
 by M. S. & Addl, M.S. of the Hospital" kindly
 supply me the following information on it.
 4(i) Kindly give me the details of movement of the No such letter as per
 above said letter, and action taken on it on a day record in the diary of the
 to day basis dak department of Hindu
 Rao Hospital and M. S.
 Office
 4(ii) Was this matter ever investigated if yes, then by As replied in(i)
 whom? 4(ii)a Also give me the date on which investigation As replied in(i)
 started & its findings. 4(ii)b What action has been taken against the officers As replied in(i)
 who were found erring? Please give details.
 4(iii) Inspection of all documents, papers, files, As replied in(i)
 including file noting related to the above letter,
 followed by certified copies of desired papers. The First Appellate Authority ordered: