(HON'BLE DR. K.B. SURESH, MEMBER (J)

 This is a matter which is being heard together along with CP No.

170/00141/2019 on common consent as we find that by answering one we

will be answering both the matters together. In the CP, the Government had

taken a view that since the CP arose out of dismissal of a case filed by State

police officers and which was uncontested till now there arose a doubt in

that as to whether it is a positive conferment of any right on the applicant to

seek a definitive positioning in the hierarchy but apparently they had done

everything else in furtherance of the interest of 1) Shri M.V. Ramakrishna

Prasad, 2) Shri Basavaraja Zille, 3) Shri R. Janardhan, 4) Dr. Ramakrishna

Muddepal, 5) Shri B.M. Prasad and 6) Shri Raghunatha KS of the 1997

batch. 2. When such a doubt arose, at the earliest point of time, the applicant

had filed the current OA No. 170/00182/2020. Therefore, on common 4 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

consent between the parties, we have decided to take both the matters

together. In fact, following our earlier order and following the order of the

Hon'ble High Court for the appointment of a commission to study the matter

once again, the matter was entrusted with the A.R. Infant Committee which

submitted a report to the Government. The Government, following our order

in OA No. 471/2010 dated 07.12.2011 and the order of the Hon'ble High

Court of Karnataka in WP No. 3269/2012 dated 25.04.2019 and the report

and the letter of Shri A.R. Infant, No. 9/2015 dated 25.07.2015, had issued

proceedings which is produced as Annexure-A1 herein, which we quote: Preamble: Subsequently, in the Government Order dated 01.10.2020 read at
(3) above, the State Government again declared equivalence between
the Civil Police Service and Auxiliary Police Services. Pursuant to this,
the officers belonging to Civil Police Service preferred an Application
No. 471/2010 and 41 and 54/2011 before the Hon'ble Central
Administrative Tribunal, Bengaluru Bench challenging condition
number 2 and 3 stipulated in the Government Order dated
01.10.2010. During the pendency of the said Application, the
Government, after considering the fact that it is not proper and in
public interest to declare the posts of Auxiliary Police Services as
equivalent to Civil Police Services, rescinded the Government Order
No. DPAR 115 SPS 2010 dated 01.10.2010 vide Government order
dated 21.07.2011 cited at (4) above. In the meantime, the Hon'ble
CAT in its order dated 07.12.2011 in OA no. 471/2010 read at (5)
above, held that because of the operation of section 3 of the
Karnataka Police Act, there exists only one single police force from
15.05.1975 onwards and equivalence required under regulation, Rule
2 stands satisfied. Being aggrieved by the said order, the Civil Police
Service officers filed several Writ Petitions before Hon'ble High Court.
The Hon'ble High Court in its order dated 25.04.2013 read at (6)
above observed as follows: ordination with civil officers, hence they obtain adequate
 exposure of management of law and order situation. iii) The Committee felt that declaring only the directly recruited
 Assistant Commandants of KSRP as equivalent of DySP
 (Civil), ignoring promotes (i.e., Assistant Commandants who
 have risen from the ranks of RSI) who may be even senior to
 them in the gradation list, may not be legally tenable. Once
 an officer is an Assistant Commandant, it is immaterial 7 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

 whether he is a direct recruit or a promotee. They have to be
 treated equally as per the gradation list. It may be
 administratively not possible to restrict the equivalence only
 to the directly recruited officers and exclude those promoted
 from the rank of PSIs/RSIs as long as they fulfil other
 conditions for promotion to Indian Police Service
 Distinguishing promotee and directly recruited officers is not
 tenable in law. Hence the following order. GOVERNMENT ORDER NO. DPAR 155 SPS 2013
 BENGALURU, DATED 23.01.2016

 In the circumstances explained in the preamble, the State
 Government, in exercise of the powers conferred under Regulations 2
 (1) (i) of Indian Police Service (Appointment by Promotion)
 Regulation, 1955, hereby declare that the Assistant Commandants,
 Karnataka State Reserve Police are equivalent to Civil Police Services
 for the purpose of promotion to Indian Police Service. By Order and in the name of
 Governor of Karnataka
 Sd/- (S.K. NAGAVENI)
 Under Secretary to Government,
 DP&AR (Services-IV)" 3. Following which, Annexure-A2 was issued dated 29.07.2019 by the

applicants in the OA, who are the original applicants in the earlier OA and

the prompters in the CP as aforesaid. 4. In the meanwhile, the Union Government in the Ministry of Home

Affairs issued letter F.No. I-14011/24/2017-IPS-I dated 28.04.2017, which

we quote: CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 5. Therefore, the unfiled vacancy for the Select List of 2014 are 27 and 9

vacancies as already determined on 30.03.2016. 6. It is noted that it is this 9 vacancies that the 6 applicants have laid a

claim. But, dehors all this, it is to be noted in this connection that in

1995 following several inputs in this regard by various adjudicatory

bodies at various levels the legislature of Karnataka had amended Section 3 of the Karnataka Police Act to create one single police force

for the country. 7. The Hon'ble Apex Court in Writ Petition Civil No. 277/2017 and Writ

Petition Civil No. 304/2017, Binoy Visman Vs Union of India had clearly held

that only on two limited grounds then legislative formation can be supplanted

by any authority including adjudicators. 1) Constitutional impairment. 2) Significant illegality which vitiate the entire process. We quote from the judgment: Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the expressions - (i) "Aadhaar number", "Enrolment" and "resident" shall have the same
meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (a), (m) and (v) of section 2 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and
other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016); CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE (ii) "Enrolment ID" means a 28 digit Enrolment Identification Number issued
to a resident at the time of enrolment." 2) Even a cursory look at the aforesaid provision makes it clear that in the
application forms for allotment of Permanent Account Number (for short,
'PAN') as well as in the income-tax returns, the assessee is obliged to quote
Aadhaar number. This is necessitated on any such applications for PAN or
return of income on or after July 01, 2017, which means from that date
quoting of Aadhaar number for the aforesaid purposes becomes essential.
Proviso to sub-section (1) gives relaxation from quoting Aadhaar number to
those persons who do not possess Aadhaar number but have already
applied for issuance of Aadhaar card. In their cases, the Enrolment ID of
Aadhaar application form is to be quoted. It would mean that those who
would not be possessing Aadhaar card as on July 01, 2017 may have to
necessarily apply for enrolment of Aadhaar before July 01, 2017. 3) The effect of this provision, thus, is that every person who desires to
obtain PAN card or who is an assessee has to necessarily enrol for
Aadhaar. It makes obtaining of Aadhaar card compulsory for those persons
who are income-tax assessees. Proviso to sub-section (2) of Section
139AA of the Act stipulates the consequences of failure to intimate the
Aadhaar number. In those cases, PAN allotted to such persons would
become invalid not only from July 01, 2017, but from its inception as the
deeming provision in this proviso mentions that PAN would be invalid as if
the person had not applied for allotment of PAN, i.e. from the very
beginning. Sub-section (3), however, gives discretion to the Central
Government to exempt such person or class or classes of persons or any
State or part of any State from the requirement of quoting Aadhaar number
in the application form for PAN or in the return of income. The challenge is to this compulsive nature of provision inasmuch as with the
introduction of the aforesaid provision, no discretion is left with the income-
tax assessees insofar as enrolment under the Aadhaar (Targeting Delivery
of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Aadhaar Act') is concerned. According to the
petitioners, though Aadhaar Act prescribes that enrolment under the said
Act is voluntary and gives choice to a person to enrol or not to enrol himself
and obtain Aadhaar card, this compulsive element thrusted in Section
139AA of the Act makes the said provision unconstitutional. The basis on
which the petitioners so contend would be taken note of at the appropriate
stage. Purpose of these introductory remarks was to highlight the issue involved in
these writ petitions at the threshold. 4) Before we take note of the arguments advanced by the petitioners and
the rebuttal thereof by the respondents, it would be in the fitness of things to 12 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

take stock of historical facts pertaining to the Aadhaar scheme and what
Aadhaar enrolment amounts to. Aadhaar Scheme and its administrative and statutory framework 5) Respondent No.1, Union of India, through the Planning Commission,
issued Notification dated January 28, 2009, constituting the Unique
Identification Authority of India (for short, 'UIDAI') for the purpose of
implementing of Unique Identity (UID) scheme wherein a UID database was
to be collected from the residents of India. Pursuant to the said Notification,
the Government of India appointed Shri Nandan Nilekhani, an entrepreneur,
as the Chairman of the UIDAI on July 02, 2009. According to this scheme,
every citizen of India is entitled to enrol herself/himself with it and get a
unique, randomnly selected 12 digit number. For such enrolment, every
person so intending would have to provide his/her personal information
along with biometric details such a fingerprints and iris scan for future
identification. Accordingly, it is intended to create a centralized database
under the UIDAI with all the above information. The scheme was launched
in September 2010 in the rural areas of Maharashtra and thereafter
extended all over India. One of the objects of the entire project was non-
duplication and elimination of fake identity cards. 6) On December 03, 2010, the National Identification Authority of India Bill,
2010 was introduced in the Rajya Sabha. On December 13, 2011, the
Standing Committee Report was submitted to the Parliament stating that
both the Bill and project should be re-considered. The Parliamentary
Standing Committee on Finance rejected the Bill of 2010 as there was
opposition to the passing of the aforesaid Bill by the Parliament. Be that as it
may, the said Bill of 2010 did not get through. The result was that as on that
date, Aadhaar Scheme was not having any statutory backing but was
launched and continued to operate in exercise of executive power of the
Government. It may also be mentioned that the Government appointed
private enrollers and these private collection/enrolment centres run by
private parties continued to enrol the citizens under the UID scheme. 7) Writ Petition (Civil) No. 494 of 2012, under Article 32 of the Constitution of
India, was preferred by Justice K.S. Puttuswamy, a former Judge of the
Karnataka High Court before this Court, challenging the UID scheme stating
therein that the same does not have any statutory basis and it violated the
'Right to Privacy', which is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution. This Court
decided to consider the plea raised in the said writ petition and issued
notice. Vide order dated September 23, 2013, the Court also passed the
following directions: This order was challenged by UIDAI by filing Special Leave Petition
(Criminal) No. 2524 of 2014, in which orders dated March 24, 2014 were
passed by this Court restraining the UIDAI from transferring any biometric
information to any agency without the written consent of the concerned
individual. The said order is in the following terms: 9) Thereafter, the aforesaid writ petitions and special leave petitions were
taken up together. Matter was heard at length by a three Judges Bench of
this Court and detailed arguments were advanced by various counsel
appearing for the petitioners as well as the Attorney General for India who
appeared on behalf of the Union of India. As stated above, one of the main
grounds of attack on Aadhaar Card scheme was that the very collection of
biometric data is violative of the 'Right to Privacy', which, in turn, violated not
only Article 21 of the Constitution of India but other Articles embodying the
fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. This
argument was sought to be rebutted by the respondents with the submission
that in view of eight Judges' Bench judgment of this Court in M.P. Sharma &
Ors. v. Satish Chandra & Ors.1 and that of six Judges' Bench in Kharak
Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors.2 , the legal position regarding the existence of
fundamental Right to Privacy is doubtful. At the same time, it was also
accepted that subsequently smaller Benches of two or three Judges of this
Court had given the judgments recognising the Right to Privacy as part
of Article 21 of the Constitution. On that basis, respondents submitted that
the matters were required to be heard by a Larger Bench to debate
important questions like: and 14 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE (ii) If such a Right exists, what is the source and what are the contours of
such a Right as there is no express provision in the Constitution
adumbrating the Right to Privacy. 10) Though, this suggestion of the respondents were opposed by the
counsel for the petitioners, the said Bench still deemed it proper to refer the
matter to the Larger Bench and the reasons for taking this course of action
are mentioned in paras 12 and 13 of the 1 AIR 1954 SC 300 2 AIR 1963 SC
1295 order dated August 11, 2015 which reads as under: 11) While referring the matter as aforesaid, by another order of the even
date, the Bench expressed that it would be desirable that the matter be
heard at the earliest. On the same day, yet another order was passed by the
Bench in those petitions giving certain interim directions which would prevail
till the matter is finally decided by the Larger Bench. We would like to
reproduce this order containing the said interim arrangement in toto: 12) In nutshell, the direction is that obtaining an Aadhaar Card is not
mandatory and the benefits due to a citizen under any scheme are not to be
denied in the absence of Aadhaar Card. Further, unique identification
number or the Aadhaar Card was to be used only for the PDS Scheme and,
in particular, for the purpose of distribution of food grains etc. and cooking
fuels such as Kerosene and LPG Distribution Scheme, with clear mandate
that it will not be used by the respondents for any other purpose. Even the
information about the individual collected while issuing an Aadhaar Card
was not to be used for any other purpose, except when it is directed by the
Court for the purpose of criminal investigation. Thus, making of Aadhaar
Card was not to be made mandatory and it was to be used only for PDS
Scheme and LPG Distribution Scheme. Thereafter, certain applications for
modification of the aforesaid order dated August 11, 2015 was filed before
this Court by the Union of India and a five Judges Bench of this Court was
pleased to pass the following order: 16) In the Statement of Objects and Reasons, it is inter alia mentioned that
though number of social benefits schemes have been floated by the
Government, the failure to establish identity of an individual has proved to
be a major hindrance for successful implementation of those programmes
as it was becoming difficult to ensure that subsidies, benefits and services
reach the unintended beneficiaries in the absence of a credible system to
authenticate identity of beneficiaries. Statement of Objects and Reasons
also discloses that over a period of time, the use of Aadhaar Number has
been increased manifold and, therefore, it is also necessary to take
measures relating to ensuring security of the information provided by the
individuals while enrolling for Aadhaar Card. Having these parameters in
mind, para 5 of the Statement of Objects and Reasons enumerates the
objectives which Aadhaar Act seeks to achieve. It reads as under: and (g) offences and penalties for contravention of relevant statutory provisions." 17) Some of the provisions of this Act, which have bearing on the matter
that is being dealt with herein, may be taken note of. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE Sections 2(a) , 2(c) , 2(d) , 2(e) , 2(g) , 2(h) , 2(k) , 2(l) , 2(m) , 2(n) , Section
3 , Section 7 , Section 28 , Section 29 and Section 30 reads as under: xxx xxx xxx 7. Proof of Aadhaar number necessary for receipt of certain subseidies,
benefits and services, etc. - The Central Government or, as the case may
be, the State Government may, for the purpose of establishing identity of an
individual as a condition for receipt of a subsidy, benefit or service for which
the expenditure is incurred from, or the receipt therefrom forms part of, the
Consolidated Fund of India, require that such individual undergo
authentication, or furnish proof of possession of Aadhaar number or in the
case of an individual to whom no Aadhaar number has been assigned, such
individual makes an application for enrolment: (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority shall ensure
confidentiality of identity information and authentication records of
individuals. (3) The Authority shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the
information in the possession or control of the Authority, including
information stored in the Central Identities Data Repository, is secured and
protected against access, use or disclosure not permitted under this Act or
regulations made thereunder, and against accidental or intentional
destruction, loss or damage. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

(4) Without prejudice to sub-sections (1) and (2), the Authority shall-- (a) adopt and implement appropriate technical and organisational security
measures; (b) ensure that the agencies, consultants, advisors or other persons
appointed or engaged for performing any function of the Authority under this
Act, have in place appropriate technical and organisational security
measures for the information; and (c) ensure that the agreements or arrangements entered into with such
agencies, consultants, advisors or other persons, impose obligations
equivalent to those imposed on the Authority under this Act, and require
such agencies, consultants, advisors and other persons to act only on
instructions from the Authority. (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, and save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Authority or any of its
officers or other employees or any agency that maintains the Central
Identities Data Repository shall not, whether during his service or thereafter,
reveal any information stored in the Central Identities Data Repository or
authentication record to anyone: 30. Biometric information deemed to be sensitive personal information.-The
biometric information collected and stored in electronic form, in accordance
with this Act and regulations made thereunder, shall be deemed to be
"electronic record" and "sensitive personal data or information", and the
provisions contained in the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000)
and the rules made thereunder shall apply to such information, in addition
to, and to the extent not in derogation of the provisions of this Act.
Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section, the expressions-- (a) "electronic form" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (r) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000
(21 of 2000); (b) "electronic record" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (t) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act,
2000 (21 of 2000); It would be necessary to mention at this stage that since challenge to the
very concept of Aadhaar i.e. unique identification number is predicated
primarily on Right to Privacy, when instant writ petitions were initially listed
before us, we suggested that these matters be also tagged along with Writ
Petition (C) No. 494 of 2012 and other matters which have been referred to
the Constitution Bench. Pertinently, in the counter affidavit filed on behalf of
the Union of India also, plea has been taken that the matters be tagged
along with those pending writ petitions and be decided by a larger Bench.
On this suggestion, reaction of the learned counsel for the petitioners was
that petitioners would not be pitching their case on the 'Right to Privacy' and
would be questioning the validity of Section 139AA of the Act primarily on Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. On this basis, their submission was
that this Bench should proceed to adjudicate the matter. Therefore, we
make it clear at the outset that we are not touching upon the privacy issue 23 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

while determining the question of validity of the impugned provision of the
Act. The Arguments 20) Mr. Datar, learned senior counsel who opened the attack on behalf of
the petitioners, started by stating the historical fact pertaining to introduction
of Aadhaar Scheme, leading to the passing of Aadhaar Act and thereafter
the impugned provision and referring to the various orders passed by this
Court from time to time (which have already been reproduced above). After
this narration, his first submission was that this Court had, time and again,
emphasised by various interim orders that obtaining an Aadhaar Card would
be a voluntarily act on behalf of a citizen and it would not be made
mandatory till the pendency of the petitions which stand referred to the
Constitution Bench now. He further submitted that even Section 3 of the
Aadhaar Act spells out that enrollment of Aadhaar is voluntarily and
consensual and not compulsory or by way of executive action. He also drew
our attention to the proviso to Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act as per which a
person is not to be deprived of subsidies as per the various schemes of the
Government as the said proviso clearly mentions that if an Aadhaar Number
is not assigned to an individual, he shall be offered alternate and viable
means of identification for delivery of subsidy, benefit or service. According
to him, there was a total reversal of the aforesaid approach for assessees
under the Income Tax Act and those who wanted to apply for issuance of
PAN Card inasmuch as not only it was made compulsory for them to get
Aadhaar enrollment number, but serious consequences were also provided
for not adhering to this requirement. In their cases, PAN issued to these
assessees had to become invalid, that too from the retrospective effect i.e.
from the date when it is issued. Having regard to the aforesaid, the legal
submission of Mr. Datar was that Section 139AA was unconstitutional and
without legislative competence inasmuch as this provision was enacted
contrary to the binding nature of the judgments/directions of this Court which
was categorical that Aadhaar had to remain voluntary. Questioning the
legislative competence of the legislature to enact this particular law,
argument of Mr. Datar was that there were certain implied limitations of such
a legislative competence and one of these limitations was that legislature
was debarred from enacting a law contrary to the binding nature of decisions
of this Court. His submission in this behalf was that though it was within the
competence of the legislature to remove the basis of the Supreme Court
decision, at the same time, legislature could not go against the decision
which was law of the land under Article 141 of the Constitution. He argued
that, in the instant case, legislature could not be construed as removing the
basis of the various orders of this Court relating to Aadhaar Scheme itself
but the impugned provision was inserted in the statute book violating the
binding nature of those orders. 21) Dilating on the aforesaid submissions, Mr. Datar argued that the earlier
orders of this Court dated August 23, 2015 of the main writ petition
specifically permitted Aadhaar to be used only for LPG and PDS. By an
order dated October 15, 2015, at the request of the Union of India, it was 24 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

permitted to be extended to three other schemes, namely, MNREGA, Jan
Dhan Yojana etc. The Constitution Bench made it explicitly clear that the
Aadhaar scheme could not be used for any other purpose. According to
him, the Parliament did not in any manner remove the basis of these
decisions. The Aadhaar scheme, as enacted under the Aadhaar Act,
continued to retain its voluntary character (as demonstrated by Section 3 of
that Act) that existed when Aadhaar was operating under executive
instructions. Nonetheless, even if it is argued that the above orders were
passed when Aadhaar was based on executive instructions, decisions of
this Court continue to be binding as they are made in exercise of the judicial
power. According to Mr. Datar, any judgment of a court, whether interim or
final, whether rendered in the context of a legislation, delegated legislation
(rules/notifications) or even executive action will continue to be binding. In
view of the judgment of this Court in Ram Jawaya Kapoor v. State of
Punjab3 , which held that executive and legislative powers are co-extensive
under the Constitutional scheme, unless the basis of the judgment is
removed by a subsequent enactment, it cannot be argued that a decision
based on executive instruction is less binding than other judgments/orders
of the Supreme Court, or that the judgment/order loses force if the executive
instruction is replaced by law. 3 (1955) 2 SCR 225 22) He also referred to the decision in the case of Madan Mohan Pathak v.
Union of India4 , wherein the direction of the Calcutta High Court to pay
bonus to Class-III and Class-IV employees was sought to be nullified by a
statutory amendment. This was held to be impermissible by the seven
Judges' Bench. He also relied upon Bakhtawar Trust v. M.D. Narayan5 ,
wherein, after citing the case-laws on this point, the Court reiterated the
principle as follows: 23) Based on the above principles, Mr. Datar's fervent plea was that: 25) However, Parliament elected not to do so as there is no non-obstante
clause. Instead of making enrollment for Aadhaar itself mandatory, it made
Aadhaar mandatory for filing income-tax returns, even as enrollment itself
remained voluntary under Section 3 of the Aadhaar Act. He, thus, submitted
that far from taking away the basis of the earlier Supreme Court orders. The
Aadhaar Act strengthened and endorsed those orders, while Section
139AA impermissibly attempted to overturn them without taking away their
basis. Indeed, Parliament did not even sof ar as include a non-obstante
clause in Section 139AA, which would have made it clear that Section would
override contrary laws - clearly indicating once again that Section 13AA was
not taking away the basis of the Court's orders. The emphasis of Mr. Datar
is that unless suitable/appropriate amendments are made to the Aadhaar
Act, the orders of the Court cannot be overruled by the newly
inserted Section 139AA. 26) On the aforesaid edifice, the argument built and developed by Mr. Datar
is that although the power of Parliament to pass laws with respect to List-I
and List-III is plenary, it is subject to two implied limitations: exist with another, then the latter provision must be struck down. In the
present case, obtaining an Aadhaar number continues to be voluntary and
explicitly declared to be so. Once the Aadhaar Card is voluntary, it cannot
be made mandatory by the impugned Section 139AA of the Act. As long as
the Aadhaar enactment holds the field, there is an implied limitation on the
power of Parliament not to pass a contrary law. 27) He also advanced two examples of such an implied limitation: While such a statute exists, it will not be permissible for Parliament to
simultaneously amend the Medical Council Act, 1956 and state that absence
of rural service will be a ground to invalidate the doctor's certificate of
practice. Thus, what is statutorily voluntary under one Parliamentary
Act cannot be made statutorily compulsory under another Parliamentary
Act at the same time. (ii) Second example given by Mr. Datar was that making Aadhaar
compulsory only for individuals with severe consequences of cancellation of
PAN cards and a deeming provision that they had never applied for PAN is
discriminatory when such a provision is not made mandatory for other
assessees. 28) Mr. Datar's next plea of violation of Article 14 was based by him on the
application of the twin-test of classification viz. there should be a reasonable
classification and that this classification should have rational nexus with the
objective sought to be achieved as held in R.K. Dalmia v. Justice S.R.
Tendolkar6 . Mr. Datar conceded that first test was met as individual
assessees form a separate class and, to this extent, there is a rational
differentiation between individuals and other categories of assessees. The
main brunt of his argument was on the second limb of the twin-test of
classification which according to him is not satisfied because there is no
rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 29) Third argument of Mr. Datar was that the affected persons by Section
139AA are individuals who are professionals like lawyers, doctors, architects
etc. and lakhs of businessmen having small or micro enterprises. By
imposing a draconian penalty of cancelling their PAN cards and deeming
that they had never applied for them, there is a direct infringement to Article
19(1)(g). The consequences of not having a PAN card results in a virtual
"civil death" and it will be impossible to carry out any business or
professional activity under Rule 114B of the Income Tax Rules, 1962
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Rules'), it will not be possible to operate bank
accounts with transactions above Rs.50,000/-, 6 (1959) SCR 279 use
credit/debit cards, purchase motor-vehicles, purchase property etc. 30) Elaborating this point, it was submitted by him that once it is shown that
the right under Article 19(1)(g) has been infringed, the burden shifts to the
State to show that the restriction is reasonable, and in the interests of the
public, under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. He referred to Modern Dental
College and Research Centre & Ors. v. State of Madhya Pradesh7 , wherein
this Court held that the correct test to apply in the context of Article
19(6) was the test of proportionality: 31) Mr. Datar also submitted that even if the State succeeds in showing a
proper purpose and a rational connection with the purpose, thereby meeting
the test of Article 14 , the impugned law clearly fails on clauses (iii) (narrow
tailoring) and (iv) (balancing) 7 (2016) 7 SCC 353 of the proportionality test
of the above decision . He submitted that the State has failed entirely to
show that the cancellation of PAN Cards as a consequence of not enrolling
for Aadhaar with its accompanying draconian consequences for the
economic life of an individual is narrowly tailored to achieving its goal of tax
compliance. It is also submitted that in accordance with the arguments
advanced above, the State's own data shows that the problem of duplicate
PANs was minuscule, and the gap between the tax payer base and the PAN
Card holding population can be explained by plausible factors other than
duplicates and forgeries. He questioned the wisdom of legislature in compelling 99.6% of the
taxpaying citizenry to enroll for Aadhaar (with the further prospect of
seeding) in order to weed out the 0.4% of duplicate PAN Cards, as it fails
the proportionality test entirely. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 32) On the principle of proportionality, he submitted that this principle was
applied in the R.K. Dalmia8 case as per the following passage: 33) Basic premise of the submissions of Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior
advocate, was also the same as projected by Mr. Datar. He insisted
that Section 139AA of the Act, which had made Aadhaar mandatory for
income-tax assessees, is unconstitutional. However, in his endeavour to
plead that the provision be declared unconstitutional, he approached the
subject from an altogether different premise, giving another perception to the
whole issue. His basic submission was that every individual or citizen in this
country had complete control over his/her body and State cannot insist any
person from giving his/her finger tips or iris of eyes, as a condition precedent
to enjoy certain rights. He pointed out that all the petitioners in his writ
petition were holding PAN Cards and were income-tax assessees but had
not enrolled under Aadhaar Scheme. They were the consentions persons in
the society and did not want to give away their finger tips or iris, being
consentions objectors, that too, to private persons who were engaged as
contractors/private enrollers by the Government for undertaking the job of
enrolment under the Aadhaar. It was submitted that the data given to such
persons were not safe and there was huge possibility that the same may be
leaked. Further, requirement of giving Aadhaar number for every transaction
amounted to surveillance by the State and the entire profile of such persons
would be available to the State. He also pointed out that with today's
technology, there was every possibility of copying the fingerprint and even
the iris images. Various cases of fake Aadhaar Card had come to light and
even as per the Government's statement, 3.48 lakh bogus Aadhaar Cards
were cancelled. There were instances of Aadhaar leak as well. Even
hacking was possible. He conceded that these were the issues within the
realm of 'Right to Privacy' which were to be decided by the Constitution
Bench. However, according to him, various orders passed by this Court in
those petitions clearly reflect that the Court had given the directions that
Aadhaar Scheme had to be voluntarily; there would not be any illegal
implants; and no one would suffer any consequences if he does not enroll
himself under the Aadhaar Scheme. He also submitted that even the
Aadhaar Act was voluntary in nature which creates rights for citizens and not
obligations. According to him, Aadhaar Act envisages free consent for
getting certain benefits under social welfare schemes of the Government.
On the other hand, Section 139AA of the Act is compulsory and coercive. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

Pointing out that if Aadhaar number is not mentioned in the income-tax
returns, the effect provided under Section 139AA of the Act is that the PAN
Card held by such a person would itself become invalid and inoperative
which will lead to various adverse consequences inasmuch as for many
other purposes as well, PAN Card is used. He referred to Sections
206AA , 196J , 271F and 272B of the Act and Rule 114B of the Rules to
demonstrate this. He also referred to the provisions of Identification of
Prisoners Act, 1920 which require a prisoner to give his fingerprints for
record and submitted that making Aadhaar compulsory amounted to treating
every person at par with a prisoner. 34) On the aforesaid premise, Mr. Divan articulated his legal submissions as
under: The checks and balances are many and amongst them are the respective
roles assigned by the Constitution to the legislature, the executive and the
judiciary. Under India's federal structure, with a distribution of legislative
authority between the Union government and the States, the fields of
legislation and corresponding executive authority are also distributed
between the Union and the States. Provisions in the Constitution such as
the fundamental rights chapter (Part III) and the chapter relating to inter-
state trade (Part XIII) also circumscribe the authority of the State. These
limitations on the power of the State support the notion of 'limited
government'. In this sense, the expression 'limited government' would mean
that each wing of the State is restricted by provisions of the Constitution and 30 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

other laws and is required to operate within its legitimate sphere. Exceeding
these limits would render the action of the State ultra vires the Constitution
or a particular law. He further argued that the concept of 'limited government' may also be
understood in a much broader and different sense. This notion of a limited
government is qua the citizenry as a whole. There are certain things that the
State simply cannot do, because the action fundamentally alters the
relationship between the citizens and the State. The wholesale collection of
biometric data including finger prints and storing it at a central depository per
se puts the State in an extremely dominant position in relation to the
individual citizen. Biometric data belongs to the concerned individual and the
State cannot collect or retain it to be used against the individual or to his or
her prejudice in the future. Further the State cannot put itself in a position
where it can track an individual and engage in surveillance. The State
cannot deprive or withhold the enjoyment of rights and entitlements by an
individual or makes such entitlements conditional on a citizen parting with
her biometrics. Mr. Divan referred to the judgment of this Court in State of
Madhya Pradesh & Anr. v. Thakur Bharat Singh9 where the concept of
limited government is highlighted in the following manner: 36) Relying on the aforesaid observations, Mr. Divan submitted that the
recognition of the distinction between an individual or person and the State
is the single most important factor that distinguishes a totalitarian State from
one that respects individuals and recognizes their special identity and
entitlement to dignity. The Indian Constitution does not establish a
totalitarian State but creates a State that is respectful of individual liberty
and constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. The Constitution of India is not a
charter of servitude. 37) Proceeding further, another submission of Mr. Divan, as noted above,
was that Section 139AA which coerces the individuals to part with their
personal information was unconstitutional. He submitted that a citizen is
entitled to enjoy all these rights including social and civil rights such as the
right to receive an education, a scholarship, medical assistance, pensions
and benefits under government schemes without having to part with his or
her personal biometrics. An individual's biometrics such as finger prints and
iris scan are the property and entitlement of that individual and the State
cannot coerce an individual or direct him or her to part with biometrics as a
condition for the exercise of rights or the enjoyment of entitlements. Every
citizen has a basic right to informational self-determination and the state
cannot exercise dominion over a citizen's proprietary information either in
individual cases or collectively so as to place itself in a position where it can
aggregate information and create detailed profiles of individuals or facilitate
this process. The Constitution of India is not a charter for a Police State
which permits the State to maintain cradle to grave records of the citizenry.
No democratic country in the world has devised a system similar to Aadhaar
which operates like an electronic leash to tether every citizen from cradle to
grave. There can be no question of free consent in situations where an
individual is being coerced to part with its biometric information (a) to be
eligible for welfare schemes of the State; and/or (b) under the threat of penal
consequences. In other words, the State cannot compel a person to part
with biometrics as a condition precedent for discharge of the State's 32 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

constitutional and statutory obligations. In support of his submission that
there cannot be coercive measures on the part of the Government to part
with such information and it has to be voluntary and based on informed
consent, Mr. Divan refered to the following judgments: ( ii) Sunil Batra & Anr. v. Delhi Administration & Ors.11 "55. And what is "life"
in Article 21? In Kharak Singh case [AIR 1963 SC 1295 : (1964) 1 SCR 332,
357] Subba Rao, J. quoted Field, J. in Munn v. Illinois [94 US 113 (1877)] to
emphasise the quality of life covered by Article 21: The provision equally prohibits the mutilation of the body by the amputation
of an arm or leg, or the putting out of an eye or the destruction of any other
organ of the body through which the soul communicates with the outer
world." A dynamic meaning must attach to life and liberty." ( iii) Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug v. Union of India & Ors.12 "25. Mr T.R.
Andhyarujina, learned Senior Counsel whom we had appointed as amicus
curiae, in his erudite submissions explained to us the law on the point. He
submitted that in general in common law it is the right of every individual to
have the control of his own person free from all restraints or interferences of
others. Every human being of adult years and sound mind has a right to
determine what shall be done with his own body. In the case of medical
treatment, for example, a surgeon who performs an operation without the
patient's consent commits assault or battery. It follows as a corollary that the
patient possesses the right not to consent i.e. to refuse treatment. (In the
United States this right is reinforced by a constitutional right of privacy). This
is known as the principle of self-determination or informed consent. Mr
Andhyarujina submitted that the principle of self-determination applies when 33 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

a patient of sound mind requires that life support should be discontinued.
The same principle applies where a patient's consent has been expressed at
an earlier date before he became unconscious or otherwise incapable of
communicating it as by a "living will" or by giving written authority to doctors
in anticipation of his incompetent situation. 93. Rehnquist, C.J. noted that in law even touching of one person by
another without consent and without legal justification was a battery, and
hence illegal. The notion of bodily integrity has been embodied in the
requirement that informed consent is generally required for medical
treatment. As observed by Cardozo, J. while on the Court of Appeals of New
York: 38) He, thus, submitted that the right to life covers and extends to a person's
right to protect his or her body and identity from harm. The right to life extends to allowing a person to preserve and protect his or
her finger prints and iris scan. The strongest and most secure manner of a
person protecting this facet of his or her bodily integrity and identity is to
retain and not part with finger prints/iris scan. He argued that the right to life
under Article 21 permits every person to live life to the fullest and to enjoy
freedoms guaranteed as fundamental rights, constitutional rights, statutory
rights and common law rights. He also argued that the constitutional validity
of a statutory provision must be judged by assessing the effect the
impugned provision has on fundamental rights. The effect of the impugned
provision is to coerce persons into parting with their finger prints and iris
scan and lodging these personal and intimate aspects of an individual's
identity with the State as part of a programme that is in the petitioner's view
wholly illegitimate and the validity of which is pending before the Constitution
Bench. 39) Expressing his grave fear and misuse of personal information parted
with by the citizenry in the form of biometrics i.e. finger prints and iris scan, 34 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

Mr. Divan made a passionate plea that requirement of enrollment for
Aadhaar is designed to facilitate and encourage private sector operators to
create applications that depend upon the Aadhaar data base for the
purposes of authentication/verification. This would mean that non-
governmental, private sector entities such as banks, employers, any point of
payment, taxi services, airlines, colleges, schools, movie theatres, clubs,
service providers, travel companies, etc. will all utilise the Aadhaar data
base and may also insist upon an Aadhaar number or Aadhaar
authentication. This would mean that at every stage in an individual's daily
activity his or her presence could be traced to a location in real time. One of
the purposes of Aadhaar as projected by the respondents is that it will be a
single point verification for KYC (Know Your Customer). This is permissible
and indeed contemplated by the impugned Act. Given the very poor quality
of scrutiny of documents by private enrollers and enrollment agencies
(without any governmental supervision) means that the more rigorous KYC
process at present being employed by banks and other financial institutions
will yield to a system which depends on a much weaker data base. This
would eventually imperil the integrity of the financial system and also
threaten the economic sovereignty of the nation. According to him, Aadhaar
Act does not serve as an identity as incorrectly projected by the respondents
but serves as a method of identification. Every citizen-state and citizen-
service provider interaction requiring identification is sought to be captured
and retained by the government at a central base and a whole ecology
developed that would require reference to this central data base on multiple
occasions in course of the day. He argued that this exercise of enrollment
impermissibly creates the foundation for real time, continuous and pervasive
identification of citizens in breach of the freedoms guaranteed under the
Constitution. 40) Another submission of Mr. Divan was that object behind Section
139AA of the Act was clearly discriminatory inasmuch as it creates two
classes: one class of those persons who volunteer to enrol themselves
under Aadhaar Scheme and provide the particulars in their income-tax
returns and second category of those who refuse to do so. This provision by
laying down adverse consequences for those who do not enrol becomes
discriminatory qua that class and, therefore, is violative of Article 14 of the
Constitution. Another limb of his submission was that it also creates an
artificial class of those who object to such a provision of enrollment under
Aadhaar. According to him, this would be violative of equality clause
enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution and in support of this submission,
he relied upon the judgment of this Court in Nagpur Improvement Trust &
Anr. v. Vithal Rao & Ors.13 . Paras 21, 22 and 26 reads as under: Director, Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr.14. Paras 58 and 59 reads
as under: 42) In fine, submission of Mr. Divan was that save and except by "reading
down", section 139AA is unworkable. This is because Aadhaar by its very
design and by its statute is "voluntary" and creates a right in favour of a
resident without imposing any duty. There is no compulsion under the
Aadhaar Act to enroll or obtain a number. If a person chooses not to enroll,
at the highest, in terms of the Aadhaar Act, he or she may be denied access
to certain benefits and services funded through the Consolidated Fund of
India. When the Aadhaar enrollment procedure is supposedly based on
informed free consent and is voluntary a person cannot be compelled by
another law to waive free consent so as to alter the voluntary nature of
enrollment that is engrafted in the parent statute. The right of a resident
under the parent Act cannot be converted into a duty so long as the
provisions of the Aadhaar Act cannot be converted into a duty so long as the
provisions of the Aadhaar Act remain as they are. Argument was
that Section 139AA be read down to hold that it is only voluntary provision
by taking out the sting of mandatoriness contained therein and there is no
compulsion on any person to give Aadhaar number. 43) We may mention at this stage itself that on conclusion of his arguments,
Mr. Divan was put a specific query that most of the arguments presented by
him endeavoured to project aesthetics of law and jurisprudence which had
the shades of 'Right to Privacy' jurisprudence which could not be gone into
by this Bench as this very aspect was already referred to the Constitution
Bench. Mr. Divan was candid in accepting this fact and his submission was
that in these circumstances, the option for this Bench was to stay the
operation of proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 139AA of the Act till the
decision is rendered by the Constitution Bench. 44) Mr. Salman Khurshid, learned senior counsel who appeared in Writ
Petition (Civil) No. 247 of 2017, while adopting the arguments of Mr. Datar
and Mr. Divan, made an additional submission, invoking the principle of right
to live with dignity which, according to him, was somewhat different from the
Right to Privacy. He submitted that although dignity inevitably includes
privacy, the former has several other dimensions which need to be explored
as well. In his submissions, the test to identify whether certain data collected
about individuals is intrusive or merely expansive is to consider whether it
causes embarrassment, indignity or invasion of privacy. Thus, the concept
of dignity is quite distinct from that of privacy. Privacy is a conditional
concept. One has it only to the extent that one's circumstances allow for it,
as a matter of fact and law. While it is widely accepted that a situation may
occur where a person may not have any Right to Privacy whatsoever, 37 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

dignity is an inherent possession of every person, regardless of
circumstance. In that sense, Dignity is an inherent dimension of equality, the
basis of John Rawls 'Theory of Justice'. The Social Contract theory
propounded by Rousseau remains the ground on which John Rawls
developed the model of the Original Position in which the contours of the
compact are conceived. Anything that reduces the personality of the
participant, such as diluting the human element and substituting it with a
number or biometric data, virtually destroys the model. Dignity is an
immutable value, held in equal measure at all times by all people, a quality
privacy does not share. No court has ever held that a person can be
stripped entirely of hir/her dignity. The concept of dignity is deeper than that
of privacy and its boundaries do not depend upon the circumstance of any
individual and thus the State cannot legitimately fully infringe upon it. He
pointed out that in M. Nagaraj & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors.15 , this Court
has, thus, elucidated the concept of Right to Dignity in the following manner: Every human being has dignity by virtue of his existence. The constitutional
courts in Germany, therefore, see human dignity as a fundamental principle
within the system of the basic rights. This is how the doctrine of basic
structure stands evolved under the German Constitution and by
interpretation given to the concept by the constitutional courts." 45) After explaining the aforesaid distinction between the two concepts, Mr.
Khurshid argued that the impugned provision in the 15 (2006) 8 SCC 212 Income Tax Act was violative of right to live with dignity guaranteed
under Article 21 of the Constitution. He submitted that Right to Life and
Liberty mentioned in Article 21 of the Constitution encompasses within its
right to live with dignity as has been held in catena of cases by this Court.
He explained in detail as to how the concept of dignity was dealt with by
different jurists from time to time including Kant who identified dignity with
autonomy and Dworkin who exemplified the doctrine of dignity on the
conception of living well, which itself is based on two principles of dignity,
namely, self respect and authenticity. In this sense, he submitted that living
with dignity involves giving importance to living our life well and acting
independently from the personal sense of character and commitment to
standards and ideals we stand for. The mandatory requirement of Aadhaar
card makes an unwarranted intrusion in the importance we give to our bodily 38 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

integrity in living our life well and compels human beings to express
themselves the way the State wants. He also submitted that the features
relevant for upholding the dignity of a human being will be severely
compromised with when the data are cross-referenced with data relating to
other spheres of life and are disclosed to third parties through different data
collected for varied reasons. This would take place without the knowledge
and consent of the poor assessees who are apparently required to
mandatory obtain the Aadhaar card only for the purposes of payment of
taxes. 46) Mr. Khurshid also raised doubts and fears about the unauthorised
disclosure of the information given by these persons who enroll themselves
under Aadhaar and submitted that in the absence of proper mechanism in
place to check unauthorised disclosure, the impugned provision of making
Aadhaar card for filing tax returns cannot be said to be consistent with the
democratic ideals. Mr. Khurshid also submitted that there was no compelling
state interests in having such a provision introducing compulsive element
and depriving from erstwhile voluntary nature of Aadhaar scheme.
According to him, the 'proportionality of means' concept is an essential one
since integrating data beyond what is really necessary for the stated
purpose is clearly unconstitutional. He submitted that in light of the decision
in the case of Gobind v. State of Madhya Pradesh16 , which has been the
position of this Court since the past forty-two years and has been cited with
approval often, it is humbly submitted that the State has the onerous burden
of justifying the impugned mandatory provision. The 'compelling state
interest' justification is only one aspect of 16 (1975) 2 SCC 148 the broader
'strict scrutiny' test, which was applied by this Court in Anuj Garg v. Hotel
Association of India17 . The other essential facet is to demonstrate 'narrow
tailoring', i.e., that the State must demonstrate that even if a compelling
interest exists, it has adopted a method that will infringe in the narrowest
possible manner upon individual rights. He submitted that neither is there
any compelling State interest warranting such a harsh mandatory provision,
nor has it been narrowly tailored to meet the object, if any. 47) In this hue, he also submitted that Section 139AA of the Act violates the
Rule of Law. Elaborating his argument, he submitted that a legal system
which in general observes the rule of law treats its people as persons, in the
sense that it attempts to guide their behaviour through affecting the
circumstances of their action. It, thus, presupposes that they are rational
autonomous creatures and attempts to affect their actions and habits by
affecting their deliberations. It satisfies men's craving for reasonable
certainty of form as well as substance, and for dignity of process as well as
dignity of result. On the other hand, when the rule of law is violated, it may
be either in the form of leading to uncertainty or it may lead to frustrated and
disappointed 17 (2008) 3 SCC 1 expectations. It leads to the first when the
law does not enable people to foresee future developments or to form
definite expectations. It leads to frustrated expectations when the
appearance of stability and certainty which encourages people to rely and 39 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

plan on the basis of the existing law is shattered by retroactive law-making
or by preventing proper law-enforcement, etc. The evils of frustrated
expectations are greater. Quite apart from the concrete harm they cause
they also offend dignity in expressing disrespect for people's autonomy. The
law in such cases encourages autonomous action only in order to frustrate
its purpose. When such frustration is the result of human action or the result
of the activities of social institutions then it expresses disrespect. Often it is
analogous to entrapment: one is encouraged innocently to rely on the law
and then that assurance is withdrawn and one's very reliance is turned into
a cause of harm to one. Just as in the instant case, the impugned provision
came into force when the order of the Court that Aadhaar card is not
mandatory, still continues to operate. 48) In the alternative, another submission of Mr. Khurshid was that Section
139AA was retrospective in nature as per proviso to sub-section (2) thereof.
As per the said proviso, on failure to give Aadhaar number, the
consequence was not only to render the PAN Card invalid prospectively but
from the initial date of issuance of PAN Card in view of the expression 'as if
the person had not applied for Permanent Account Number' which would
meant that PAN Card would be invalidated by rendering the same void ab
initio i.e. from retrospective effect. Such a retrospective effect, according to
him, was violative of Article 20(1) of the Constitution. Further, retrospective
operation is not permissible without separate objects for such operations as
held in Dayawati v. Inderjit18 . In conclusion, learned senior counsel
submitted that the law regarding mandatory requirement of Aadhaar card is
a hasty piece of legislation without much thought going into it. It is submitted
that the Aadhaar card cannot be made mandatory for filing tax returns with
such far-reaching consequences for non-compliance, unless and until
suitable measures are put in place to ensure that the dignity of the
assessees is not compromised with. The generalisation, centralisation and
disclosure of biometric information, however, accidental it might be, has to
be effectively controlled and mechanisms have to be put in place to inquire
and penalise those found guilty of disclosing such information. The need to
do so is extremely 18 (1966) 3 SCR 275 crucial in view of the fact that
biometric systems may be bypassed, hacked, or even fail. Unless the same
is done, the identity of the citizens will be reduced to a collection of
instrumentalised markers. Further, the organisations and authorities allowed
to conduct it should be strictly defined. There has to be a strict control over
any systematic use of common identifiers. No such re-grouping of data can
be allowed as could lead to the use of biometrics for exclusion of vulnerable
groups. Brown considers surveillance as both a discursive and a material
practice that reifies bodies around divisive lines. Surveillance of certain
communities has been both social as well as political norm. He further
submitted that this Court cannot lose sight of the fact that the data collected
under the impugned provision may be used to carry out discriminatory
research and sort subjects into groups for specific reasons. The fact that the
impugned provision creates an apprehension in the minds of the people,
legitimate and reasonable enough with no preventive mechanism in place, is 40 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

in itself a violation of the right to life and personal liberty as enshrined under
the Constitution. 49) Mr. Anando Mukherjee, learned counsel, appeared in Writ Petition (Civil)
No. 304 of 2017, while reiterating the submissions of earlier counsel, argued
that Section 139AA was confused, self-destructive and self-defeating
provision for the reason that on the one hand, it had an effect of making
enrollment into Aadhaar mandatory, but, on the other hand, by virtue of the
explanation contained in the provision itself, it is kept voluntary and as a
matter of right for the same set of individuals and for the purposes of Section
139AA . He also submitted that there was a conflict between Section
139AA of the Act and Section 29 of Aadhaar Act inasmuch as Section
29 puts a blanket embargo on using the core biometric information, collected
or created under the Aadhaar Act for any purpose other than generation of
Aadhaar numbers and authentication under the Aadhaar Act. Mr. Mukherjee
went to the extent of describing the impugned provision as colourable
exercise of power primarily on the ground that when Aadhaar Act is
voluntary in nature, there was no question of making this very provision
mandatory by virtue of Section 139AA of the Act. 50) Appearing for Union of India, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned Attorney
General for India, put stiff resistance to the submissions advanced on behalf
of the petitioners. In a bid to torpedo and pulverise the arguments as set
forth on the side of the petitioners, the learned Attorney pyramid his
arguments in the following style: In support, he referred to the various judgments of this Court. 52) He, thus, submitted that no third ground was available to any of the
petitioners to challenge the constitutional validity of a legislative enactment.
According to him, the principle 20 (2003) 4 SCC 493 proportionality should
not be read into Article 14 of the Constitution, while taking support from the
judgment in K.T. Plantation Private Limited & Anr. v. State of Karnataka21 ,
wherein it is held that plea of unreasonableness, arbitrariness,
proportionality, etc. always raises an element of subjectivity on which a court
cannot strike down a statute or a statutory provision. 53) Third introductory submission of the learned Attorney General was that
the scope of judicial review in a fiscal statute was very limited and Section
139AA of the Act, being a part of fiscal statute, following parameters laid
down in State of Madhya Pradesh v. Rakesh Kohli & Anr.22 had to be kept
in mind: 54) In this hue, he also argued that the State enjoys the widest latitude
where measure of economic regulations are concerned {See - Secretary to
Government of Madras & Anr. v. P.R. Sriramulu & Anr.23 , paragraph 15)
and that mala fides cannot be attributed to the Parliament, as held in G.C.
Kanungo v. State of Orissa24 , (paragraph 11). Also, the courts approached
the issue with the presumption of constitutionality in mind and that
Legislature intends and correctly appreciates the need of its own people, as
held in Mohd. Hanif Quareshi & Ors. v. State of Bihar25 (paragraph 15). 55) On merits, the argument of Mr. Rohatgi was that once the aforesaid
basic parameters are kept in mind, the impugned provision passes the
muster of constitutionality. Adverting to the issue of legislative competence,
he referred to Article 246 and 248 of the Constitution as well as Entry 82 and
Entry 97 of List-I of Schedule-VII of the Constitution which empowers the 23
(1996) 1 SCC 345 24 (1995) 5 SCC 96 25 AIR 1958 SC 731 Parliament to
legislate on the subject pertaining to income-tax. Therefore, it could not be said that the impugned provision made was
beyond the competence of the Parliament. He also submitted that in any
case residuary power lies with the Parliament and this power to legislate is
plenary, as held in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. & Ors. v. State of U.P. &
Ors.26 "56. On behalf of the State both Mr. Trivedi and Mr. Yogeshwar
Prasad contended that regulatory power of the State was there and in order
to regulate it was possible to impose certain disincentives in the form of fees
or levies. Imposition of these imposts as part of regulatory process is
permissible, it was submitted. Our attention was drawn to the various
decisions where by virtue of "police power" in respect of alcohol the State
has imposed such impositions. Though one would not be justified in
adverting to any police power, it is possible to conceive sovereign power
and on that sovereign power to have the power of regulation to impose such
conditions so as to ensure that the regulations are obeyed and complied
with. We would not like, however, to embark upon any theory of police
power because the Indian Constitution does not recognise police power as
such. But we must recognise the exercise of sovereign power which gives
the States sufficient authority to enact any law subject to the limitations of
the Constitution to discharge its functions. Hence, the Indian Constitution as
a sovereign State has power to legislate on all branches except to the
limitation as to the division of powers between the Centre and the States 43 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

and also subject to the fundamental rights guaranteed under the
Constitution. The Indian State, between the Centre and the States, has
sovereign power. The sovereign power is plenary and inherent in every
sovereign State to do all things which promote the health, peace, morals,
education and good order of the people. Sovereignty is difficult to define.
This power of sovereignty is, however, subject to constitutional limitations.
This power, according to some 26 (1990) 1 SCC 109 constitutional
authorities, is to the public what necessity is to the individual. Right to tax or
levy imposts must be in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution." 56) Rebutting the argument of Mr. Datar that by making the impugned
provision mandatory the Legislature had acted contrary to the judgments of
this Court, Mr. Rohatgi argued that this argument was devoid of any merit on
various counts: First, there was no judgment of this Court and the orders
referred were only interim orders. Secondly, in any case, those orders were
passed at a time when Aadhaar was being implemented as a scheme in
administrative/executive domain and the Court was considering the validity
of Aadhaar scheme in that hue/background. Those orders have not been
passed in the context of examining the validity of any legislative measure.
Thirdly, no final view is taken in the form of any judgment that Aadhaar is
unconstitutional and, therefore, there is no basis in existence which was
required to be removed. Fourthly, the Parliament was competent to pass the
law and provide statutory framework to give legislative backing to Aadhaar
in the absence of any such law which existed at that time. He, thus,
submitted that there was no question of curing the alleged basis of
judgment/interim orders by legislation. He specifically relied upon the
following passage from the judgment in the case of Goa Foundation & Anr.
v. State of Goa & Anr.27 : 57) Mr. Rohatgi thereafter read extensively from the counter affidavit filed on
behalf of the Union of India detailing the rational and objective behind
introduction of Section 139AA of the Act. He submitted that the provision
aims to achieve, inter alia, the following objectives: Out of this, around 10.52 lakh cases pertain to individual assessees. Total
number of Aadhaar for individuals exceeds 113 crores whereas total number
of PAN for individuals is around 29 crore. Therefore, whereas the Aadhaar
Act applies to the entire population, the Income Tax Act applies to a much
smaller sub-set of the population, i.e. the tax payers. In order to ensure One
Pan to One Person, Aadhaar can be the sole criterion for allotment of PAN
to individuals only after all existing PAN are seeded with Aadhaar and
quoting of Aadhaar is mandated for new PAN applications. Counter affidavit filed by the Union of India also gives the following
instances of misuse of PAN: It is submitted in this regard that PAN is a basis of all the requirements in the
process of incorporation of a company. Even an artificial juridical person like 46 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

a company is granted PAN. It is required as an ID proof for incorporation of
a company, applying for DIN, digital signature etc. PAN is also required for
opening a bank account in the name of a company or individuals. Basic
documents required for obtaining a PAN are ID proof and address proof. It
has been observed that these documents which are a basis of issuance of
PAN could easily be forged and, therefore, PAN cards issued on the basis of
such forged documents cannot be genuine and it can be used for various
financial frauds/crime. Aadhaar will ensure that there is no duplication of
identity as biometric will not allow that. If at the time of opening of bank
accounts itself, the more robust identity proof like Aadhaar had been used in
place of PAN, the menace of mushrooming of non- descript/shell/jamakharchi/bogus companies would have been prevented.
There is involvement of natural person in the complex web of shell
companies only at the initial stage when the shareholders subscribe to the
share capital of the shell company. After that may layers are created
because there is company to company transaction and much more complex
structure of shell company compromising the financial integration of nation is
formed which makes it almost impossible to identify the real beneficiary
(natural person) involved in these shell companies. These shell companies
have been used for purpose of money laundering at a large scale. The fake
PAN cards have facilitated the enormous growth of shell companies which
were being used for layering of funds and illegal transfer of such funds to
some other companies/persons or parked abroad in the guise of remittances
against import. The share capital of these shell companies are subscribed
by fake shareholders through numerous bank accounts opened with the use
of fake PAN cards at the initial stage. (iv) According to the respondents, this provision will help in widening of tax
base. It was pointed out that more than 113 crore people have registered
themselves under Aadhaar. Adults coverage of Aadhaar is more than 99%.
Aadhaar being a unique identification, the problem of bogus or duplicate
PANs can be dealt with in a more systematic and foolproof manner. According to the respondent, in fact, it has already shown results as
Aadhaar has led to weeding out duplicate and fakes in many welfare
programmes such as PDS, MNREGS, LPG Pahal, Old Age pension,
scholarships etc. during the last two years and it has led to savings of
approximately Rs.49,000 crores to the exchequer. 58) Mr. Rohatgi also referred to that portions of the counter affidavit which
narrates the following benefits Aadhaar seeding in PAN database: One PAN for one person is the guiding principle for allotment of PAN. PAN
acts as the identifier of taxable entity and aggregator of all financial
transactions undertaken by the taxable entity i.e. 'person'. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE (b) Legal provisions relating to PAN - PAN is the key or identifier of all
computerized records relating to the taxpayer. The requirement for obtaining
of PAN is mandated through Section 139A of the Act. The procedure for
application for PAN is prescribed in Rule 114 of the Rules. The forms
prescribed for PAN application are 49A and 49AA for Indian and Foreign
Citizens/Entities. Quoting of PAN has been mandated for certain
transactions above specified threshold value in Rule 114B of the Rules. (c) Uniqueness of PAN - For achieving the objective of one PAN to one
assessee, it is required to maintain uniqueness of PAN. The uniqueness of
PAN is achieved by conducting a de-duplication check on all already
existing allotted PAN against the data furnished by new applicant. Under the
existing system of PAN only demographic data is captured. De-duplication
process is carried out using a Phonetic Algorithm whereby a Phonetic PAN
(PPAN) is created in respect of each applicant using the data of applicant's
name, father's name, date of birth, gender and status. By comparison of
newly generated PPAN with existing set of PPANs of all assessees
duplicate check is carried out and it is ensured that same person does not
acquire multiple PANs or one PAN is not allotted to multiple persons. Due to
prevalence of common names and large number of PAN holders, the
demographic way of de-duplication is not foolproof. Many instances are
found where multiple PANs have been allotted to one person or one PAN
has been allotted to multiple persons despite the application of above-
mentioned de-duplication process. While allotment of multiple PAN to one
person has the risk of diversion of income of person into several PANs
resulting in evasion of tax, the allotment of same PAN to multiple persons
results in wrong aggregation and assessment of incomes of several persons
as one taxable entity represented by single PAN. (d) Presently verification of original documents in only 0.2% cases (200 out
of 1,00,000 PAN applications) is done on a random basis which is quite less.
In the case of Aadhaar, 100% verification is possible due to availability of
on-line Aadhaar authentication service provided by the UIDAI. Aadhaar
seeding in PAN database will make PAN allotment process more robust. (e) Seeding of Aadhaar number into PAN database will allow a robust way
of de-duplication as Aadhaar number is de-duplicated using biometric
attributes of fingerprints and iris images. The instance of a duplicate
Aadhaar is almost non-existent. Further seeking of Aadhaar will allow the
Income Tax Department to weed out any undetected duplicate PANs. It will
also facilitate resolution of cases of one PAN allotted to multiple persons. 59) After stating the aforesaid purpose, rational and benefits, the learned
Attorney General submitted that the main provision is not violative of any
constitutional rights of the petitioners. According to him, the provision was
not discriminatory at all inasmuch as it was passed on reasonable
classification, the two classes being tax payers and non tax payers. He also
submitted that it was totally misconceived that this provision had no rational 48 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

nexus with the objective sought to be achieved in view of the various
objectives and benefits which were sought to be achieved by seeding
Aadhaar with PAN. Mr. Rohatgi also referred to various orders and
judgments of this Court whereunder use of Aadhaar was endorsed,
encouraged or even directed. Following instances are cited: 63) While monitoring the PILs relating to night shelters for the homeless and
the right to food through the public distribution system, this Court has lauded
and complimented the efforts of the State Governments for inter alia
carrying out bio-metric identification of the head of family of each household
to eliminate fictitious, bogus and ineligible BPL/AAY household cards. 64) A two Judge Bench of this court in People's Union for Civil Liberties
(PDS Matter) v. Union of India & Ors.30 has held that computerisation is
going to help the public distribution system in the country in a big way and
encouraged and endorsed the 29 (2013) 2 SCC 705 30 (2013) 14 SCC 368
digitisation of database including bio-metric identification of the
beneficiaries. In fact, this Court had requested Mr. Nandan Nilekani to
suggest ways in which the computerisation process of PDS can be
expedited. 65) In the case of People's Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India &
Ors.31 , this Court has also endorsed bio-metric identification of homeless
persons so that the benefits like supply of food and kerosene oil available to 49 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

persons who are below poverty line can be extended to the correct
beneficiaries. 66) In the case of Lokniti Foundation v. Union of India & Ors.32 , this Court
has disposed of the writ petition while approving the Aadhaar based
verification of existing and new mobile number subscribers and upon being
satisfied that an effective process has been evolved to ensure identity
verification. 67) Mr. Sengupta, learned counsel arguing on behalf of UIDAI, made
additional submissions specifically answering the doctrine of proportionality
argument advanced by Mr. Datar as well as on the aspect of informational
self-determination. His submissions in this behalf were that proportionality
should not be read into Article 14 of the Constitution and in any case no
proportionality or other 31 (2010) 5 SCC 318 32 Writ Petition (C) No. 607 of
2016 decided on February 06, 2017 Article 14 violation had been made out
in the instant case. He also argued that there is no absolute right to
informational self-determination; to the extent such right may exist it is part
of the Right to Privacy whose very existence contours is before the
Constitution Bench of this Court. 68) Adverting to the doctrine of proportionality, he referred to the judgments
of this Court in Modern Dental College and Research Centre33 wherein this
doctrine is explained and applied and submitted that the doctrine is applied
only in the context of Article 19(1)(g) and not Article 14 of the Constitution.
He pointed out that proportionality is not the governing law even in the
United Kingdom for claims analogous to Article 14 of the Constitution. His
passionate submission was that proportionality supplanting traditional review
in European Court of Human Rights cases and not remaining applicable in
traditional judicial review claims has caused immense confusion in British
pubic law. Narrating the structure of Article 19 , submission of Mr. Sengupta
was that freedoms which were enlisted under Article 19(1) were not the
absolute freedoms and they were subject to reasonable restrictions, as
provided under sub-article (2) to (6) of Article 19 itself. It is because of this
reason, while examining as to whether 33 Footnote 7 above a particular
measure violated any of the freedoms or was a reasonable restriction,
balancing exercise was to be done by the courts and this balancing exercise
brings the element of proportionality. However, this was not envisaged
in Article 14 at all. 69) Coming to the impugned provision and referring to the penal
consequences provided in proviso to Section 139AA(2) , he argued that the
test of whether penalty is proportionate is not the same as the doctrine of
proportionality. Proportionate penalty is an incident of arbitrariness whereas
there cannot be any arbitrariness qua a statute. He also submitted that on
facts penalty provided in the impugned provision is deemed to be the same
as that for not filing income tax return with valid PAN. He also argued that
there was no violation of Article 14 inasmuch as classification had a 50 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

reasonable nexus with the object enshrined in the impugned provision. It
was open to the Legislature to determine decrease of harm and act
accordingly and the Legislature does not have to tackle problem 100% for it
to have a rational nexus. Since individual assessees are prone to the
problem and financial frauds using fake PAN, whether individually or in the
guise of legal persons, Aadhaar aims at tackling problem which exhibited a
rational nexus with the object. According to Mr. Sengupta, there was no
discriminatory object inasmuch as the object is to weed out duplicate PANs
that allow financial and tax fraud. Therefore, the provision is not
discriminatory in nature. 70) Dealing with the argument of right to informational self-determination,
the learned counsel submitted that as a matter of current practice in India,
no absolute right to determine what information about oneself one wants to
disclose; several pieces of personal information are required by law. The
perils of comparative law in merely transplanting from German law; the need
to develop an Indian understanding of privacy and self-determination in the
Indian context. Even in German law, the judgment quoted by the petitioner
does not demonstrate an untrammelled Right to Privacy or information self-
determination. The world over, information over oneself is the most critical
element of privacy; the contours of which are to be determined by a
Constitution Bench. A Caveat 71) Before we enter into the discussion and weigh the merits of arguments
addressed on both sides, one aspect needs to be made absolutely clear,
though it has been hinted earlier as well. Conscious of the fact that
challenge to Aadhaar scheme/legislation on the ground that it was violative
of Article 21 of the Constitution is pending before the Constitution Bench
and, therefore, this Bench could not have decided that issue, counsel for the
petitioners had submitted that they would not be pressing the issue of Right
to Privacy. Notwithstanding the same, it was argued by Mr. Divan, though in
the process Mr. Divan emphasised that he was touching upon other facets
of Article 21. Likewise, Mr. Salman Khurshid while arguing that the
impugned provision was violative of Article 21 , based his submission on
Right to Human Dignity as a facet of Article 21. He also emphasised that the
concept of human dignity was different from Right to Privacy. We have taken
note of these arguments above. However, we feel all these aspects argued
by the petitioners overlap with privacy issues as different aspects of Article
21 of the Constitution. Right to Let Alone has the shades of Right to Privacy
and it is so held by the Court in R. Rajagopal & Anr. v. State of Tamil Nadu
& Ors.34 : Position may, however, be different, if a person voluntarily thrusts himself
into controversy or voluntarily invites or raises a controversy. (2) The rule aforesaid is subject to the exception, that any publication
concerning the aforesaid aspects becomes unobjectionable if such
publication is based upon public records including court records. This is for
the reason that once a matter becomes a matter of public record, the right to
privacy no longer subsists and it becomes a legitimate subject for comment
by press and media among others. We are, however, of the opinion that in
the interests of decency [ Article 19(2)] an exception must be carved out to
this rule, viz., a female who is the victim of a sexual assault, kidnap,
abduction or a like offence should not further be subjected to the indignity of
her name and the incident being publicised in press/media. (3) There is yet
another exception to the rule in (1) above -- indeed, this is not an exception
but an independent rule. In the case of public officials, it is obvious, right to
privacy, or for that matter, the remedy of action for damages is simply not
available with respect to their acts and conduct relevant to the discharge of
their official duties. This is so even where the publication is based upon facts
and statements which are not true, unless the official establishes that the
publication was made (by the defendant) with reckless disregard for truth. In
such a case, it would be enough for the defendant (member of the press or
media) to prove that he acted after a reasonable verification of the facts; it is
not necessary for him to prove that what he has written is true. Of course,
where the publication is proved to be false and actuated by malice or
personal animosity, the defendant would have no defence and would be
liable for damages. It is equally obvious that in matters not relevant to the
discharge of his duties, the public official enjoys the same protection as any
other citizen, as explained in (1) and (2) above. It needs no reiteration that
judiciary, which is protected by the power to punish for contempt of court
and Parliament and legislatures protected as their privileges are by Articles
105 and 104 respectively of the Constitution of India, represent exceptions
to this rule. (4) So far as the Government, local authority and other organs and
institutions exercising governmental power are concerned, they cannot
maintain a suit for damages for defaming them. (5) Rules 3 and 4 do not, however, mean that Official Secrets Act, 1923 , or
any similar enactment or provision having the force of law does not bind the
press or media. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

(6) There is no law empowering the State or its officials to prohibit, or to
impose a prior restraint upon the press/media." So is the Right to
Informational Self Determination, as specifically spelled out by US Supreme
Court in United States Department of Justice v. Reporters Committee for
Freedom of the Press35. Because of the aforesaid reasons and keeping in
mind the principle of judicial discipline, we have made conscious choice not
to deal with these aspects and it would be for the parties to raise these
issues before the Constitution Bench. Accordingly, other arguments based
on Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution as well as competence of the
legislature to enact such law are being examined. 72) We have deeply deliberated on the arguments advanced by various
counsel appearing for different petitioners as well as counter submissions
made by counsel appearing on behalf of the State. Undoubtedly, the issue
that confronts us is of seminal importance. In recent times, issues about the
proprietary, significance, merits and demerits have generated lots of debate
among intelligentia. The Government claims that this provision is introduced
in the Statute to achieve laudable objectives and it is in public interest. It is
felt that this technology can solve many development challenges. The
petitioners argue that the move is impermissible as it violates their
fundamental rights. It falls in the category of, what Ronald Dworkin calls,
"hard cases". Nevertheless, the duty of the court is to decide such cases as
well and give better decision. While undertaking this exercise of judicial
review, let us first keep in mind the width and extent of power of judicial
review of a legislative action. The Court cannot question the wisdom of the
Legislature in enacting a particular law. It is required to act within the domain
available to it. Scope of Judicial Review of Legislative Act 73) Under the Constitution, Supreme Court as well as High Courts are
vested with the power of judicial review of not only administrative acts of the
executive but legislative enactments passed by the legislature as well. This
power is given to the High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution and
to the Supreme Court under Article 32 as well as Article 136 of the
Constitution. At the same time, the parameters on which the power of
judicial review of administrative act is to be undertaken are different from the
parameters on which validity of legislative enactment is to be examined. No
doubt, in exercises of its power of judicial review of legislative action, the
Supreme Court, or for that matter, the High Courts can declare law passed
by the Parliament or the State Legislature as invalid. However, the power to
strike down primary legislation enacted by the Union or the State
Legislatures is on limited grounds. Courts can strike down legislation either
on the basis that it falls foul of federal distribution of powers or that it
contravenes fundamental rights or other Constitutional rights/provisions of
the Constitution of India. No doubt, since the Supreme Court and the High
Courts are treated as the 'ultimate arbiter in all matters involving 53 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

interpretation of the Constitution, it is the Courts which have the final say on
questions relating to rights and whether such a right is violated or not. The
basis of the aforesaid statement lies in Article 13(2) of the Constitution which
proscribes the State from making 'any law which takes away or abridges the
right conferred by Part III', enshrining fundamental rights. It categorically
states that any law made in contravention thereof, to the extent of the
contravention, be void. 74) We can also take note of Article 372 of the Constitution at this stage
which applies to pre-constitutional laws. Article 372(1) reads as under: These contours of the judicial review are spelled out in the clear terms in
case of Rakesh Kohli37, and particularly the following paragraphs: In McDowell and Co. while dealing with the challenge to an enactment
based on Article 14 , this Court stated in para 43 of the Report as follows: (emphasis supplied) 26. In Mohd. Hanif Quareshi, the Constitution Bench further observed that
there was always a presumption in favour of constitutionality of an
enactment and the burden is upon him, who attacks it, to show that there
has been a clear violation of the constitutional principles. It stated in para 15
of the Report as under: (AIR pp. 740-41) ""15. ... The courts, it is accepted,
must presume that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the
needs of its own people, that its laws are directed to problems made
manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based on adequate
grounds. It must be borne in mind that the legislature is free to recognise
degrees of harm and may confine its restrictions to those cases where the
need is deemed to be the clearest and finally that in order to sustain the
presumption of constitutionality the court may take into consideration
matters of common knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the
times and may assume every state of facts which can be conceived existing
at the time of legislation." 27. The above legal position has been reiterated by a Constitution Bench of
this Court in Mahant Moti Das v. S.P. Sahi . CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 28. In Hamdard Dawakhana v. Union of India , inter alia, while referring to
the earlier two decisions, namely, Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. and Mahant
Moti Das, it was observed in para 8 of the Report as follows: ( Hamdard
Dawakhana case, AIR p. 559): 76) Again in Ashok Kumar Thakur v. Union of India & Ors.38 , this Court
made the following pertinent observations: 77) Furthermore, it also needs to be specifically noted that this Court
emphasised that apart from the aforesaid two grounds no third ground is
available to invalidate any piece of legislation. In this behalf it would be
apposite to reproduce the following observations from State of A.P. & Ors. v.
McDowell & Co. & Ors.39 , which is a judgment rendered by a three Judge
Bench of this Court: 78) Another aspect in this context, which needs to be emphasized, is that a
legislation cannot be declared unconstitutional on the ground that it is
'arbitrary' inasmuch as examining as to whether a particular Act is arbitrary
or not implies a value judgment and the courts do not examine the wisdom
of legislative choices and, therefore, cannot undertake this exercise. This
was so recognised in a recent judgment of this Court Rajbala & Ors. v. State
of Haryana & Ors.40 wherein this Court held as under: since such an exercise implies a value judgment and courts do not examine
the wisdom of legislative choices unless the legislation is otherwise violative
of some specific provision of the Constitution. To undertake such an
examination would amount to virtually importing the doctrine of "substantive
due process" employed by the American Supreme Court at an earlier point
of time while examining the constitutionality of Indian legislation. As pointed
out in the above extract, even in United States the doctrine is currently of
doubtful legitimacy. This Court long back in A.S. Krishna v. State of
Madras declared that the doctrine of due process has no application under
the Indian Constitution As pointed out by Frankfurter, J., arbitrariness
became a mantra. 65. For the above reasons, we are of the opinion that it is not permissible for
this Court to declare a statute unconstitutional on the ground that it is
'arbitrary'." 79) Same sentiments were expressed earlier by this Court in K.T.

Plantation Private Limited & Anr.41 in the following words: However, while undertaking substantive judicial review, if it is found that the
impugned provision appears to be violative of fundamental rights or other
Constitutional rights, the Court reaches the second stage of review. At this
second phase of enquiry, the Court is supposed to undertake the exercise
as to whether the impugned provision can still be saved by reading it down
so as to bring it in conformity with the Constitutional provisions. If that is not
achievable then the enquiry enters the third stage. If the offending portion of
the statute is severable, it is severed and the Court strikes down the
impugned provision declaring the same as unconstitutional. 81) Keeping in view the aforesaid parameters we, at this stage, we want to
devote some time discussing the arguments of the petitioners based on the
concept of 'limited government'. Concent of 'Limited Government' and its
impact on powers of Judicial Review 82) There cannot be any dispute about the manner in which Mr. Shyam
Divan explained the concept of 'limited Government' in his submissions.
Undoubtedly, the Constitution of India, as an instrument of governance of
the State, delineates the functions and powers of each wing of the State,
namely, the Legislature, the Judiciary and the Executive. It also enshrines
the principle of separation of powers which mandates that each wing of the
State has to function within its own domain and no wing of the State is
entitled to trample over the function assigned to the other wing of the State.
This fundamental document of governance also contains principle of
federalism wherein the Union is assigned certain powers and likewise
powers of the State are also prescribed. In this context, the Union
Legislature, i.e. the Parliament, as well as the State Legislatures are given
specific areas in respect of which they have power to legislate. That is so
stipulated in Schedule VII of the Constitution wherein List I enumerates the
subjects over which Parliament has the dominion, List II spells out those
areas where the State Legislatures have the power to make laws while List
III is the Concurrent List which is accessible both to the Union as well as the 59 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

State Governments. The Scheme pertaining to making laws by the
Parliament as well as by the Legislatures of the State is primarily contained
in Articles 245 to 254 of the Constitution. Therefore, it cannot be disputed
that each wing of the State to act within the sphere delineated for it under
the Constitution. It is correct that crossing these limits would render the
action of the State ultra vires the Constitution. When it comes to power of
taxation, undoubtedly, power to tax is treated as sovereign power of any
State. However, there are constitutional limitations briefly described above. In a nine Judge Bench decision of this Court in Jindal Stainless Ltd. & Anr.
v. State of Haryana & Ors.42 discussion on these constitutional limitations
are as follows: 21. What then are the Constitutional limitations on the power of the State
legislatures to levy taxes or for that matter enact legislations in the field
reserved for them under the relevant entries of List II and III of the Seventh
Schedule. The first and the foremost of these limitations appears in Article
13 of the Constitution of India which declares that all laws in force in the
territory of India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution
are void to the extent they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III
dealing with the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens. It forbids the
States from making any law which takes away or abridges, any provision of 60 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

Part III. Any law made in contravention of the said rights shall to the extent
of contravention be void. There is no gain saying that the power to enact
laws has been conferred upon the Parliament subject to the above
Constitutional limitation. So also in terms of Article 248 , the residuary power
to impose a tax not otherwise mentioned in the Concurrent List or the State
List has been vested in the Parliament to the exclusion of the State
legislatures, and the States' power to levy taxes limited to what is specifically
reserved in their favour and no more. 22. Article 249 similarly empowers the Parliament to legislate with respect to
a matter in the State List for national interest provided the Council of States
has declared by a resolution supported by not less than two-thirds of the
members present and voting that it is necessary or expedient in national
interest to do so. The power is available till such time any resolution remains
in force in terms of Article 249(2) and the proviso thereunder. 23. Article 250 is yet another provision which empowers the Parliament to
legislate with respect to any matter in the State List when there is a
proclamation of emergency. In the event of an inconsistency between laws
made by Parliament under Articles 249 and 250 , and laws made by
legislature of the States, the law made by Parliament shall, to the extent of
the inconsistency, prevail over the law made by the State in terms of Article 251. 24. The power of Parliament to legislate for two or more States by consent,
in regard to matters not otherwise within the power of the Parliament is
regulated by Article 252 , while Article 253 starting with a non-obstante
clause empowers Parliament to make any law for the whole country or any
part of the territory of India for implementing any treaty, agreement or
convention with any other country or countries or any decision made at any
international conference, association or other body." 83) Mr. Divan, however, made an earnest endeavour to further broaden this
concept of 'limited Government' by giving an altogether different slant. He
submitted that there are certain things that the States simply cannot do
because the action fundamentally alters the relationship between the
citizens and the State. In this hue, he submitted that it was impermissible for
the State to undertake the exercise of collection of bio-metric data, including
fingerprints and storing at a central depository as it puts the State in an
extremely dominant position in relation to the individual citizens. He also
submitted that it will put the State in a position to target an individual and
engage in surveillance thereby depriving or withholding the enjoyment of his
rights and entitlements, which is totally impermissible in a country where
governance of the State of founded on the concept of 'limited Government'.
Again, this concept of limited government is woven around Article 21 of the
Constitution. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 84) Undoubtedly, we are in the era of liberalised democracy. In a democratic
society governed by the Constitution, there is a strong trend towards the
Constitutionalisation of democratic politics, where the actions of democratic
elected Government are judged in the light of the Constitution. In this
context, judiciary assumes the role of protector of the Constitution and
democracy, being the ultimate arbiter in all matters involving the
interpretation of the Constitution. 85) Having said so, when it comes to exercising the power of judicial review
of a legislation, the scope of such a power has to be kept in mind and the
power is to be exercised within the limited sphere assigned to the judiciary
to undertake the judicial review. This has already been mentioned above.
Therefore, unless the petitioner demonstrates that the Parliament, in
enacting the impugned provision, has exceeded its power prescribed in the
Constitution or this provision violates any of the provision, the argument
predicated on 'limited governance' will not succeed. One of the aforesaid
ingredients needs to be established by the petitioners in order to succeed. 86) Even in the case of Thakur Bharath Singh43 relied upon by Mr. Divan,
wherein executive order was passed imposing certain restrictions requiring
the respondent therein to reside at a particular place as specified in the
order, which was passed in exercise of powers contained under Section
3(1)(b) of the M.P. Public Security Act, 1959, the Court struck down and
quashed the order only after it found that restrictions contained therein were
unreasonable and violative of fundamental freedom guaranteed
under Article 19(1)(d) and (e) of the Constitution of India. 87) With this, we proceed to consider the arguments on which vires of the
impugned provisions are questioned: However, the submission of the petitioners was that the impugned legislative
provision was made as per which enrolment under Aadhaar had become
mandatory for the income tax assessees, whereas this Court has passed
various orders repeatedly emphasising that enrolment for Aadhaar card has
to be voluntary. On this basis, the argument is that the Legislature lacked
the authority to pass a law contrary to the judgments of this Court, without
removing the basis of those judgments. It was also argued that even
Aadhaar Act was voluntary in nature and the basis of the judgments of this
Court could be taken away only by making enrolment under the Aadhaar Act
compulsory, which was not done. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 89) Before proceeding to discuss this argument, one aspect of the matter
needs clarification. There was a debate as to whether Aadhaar Act is
voluntary or even that Act makes enrolment under Aadhaar mandatory. 90) First thing that is to be kept in mind is that the Aadhaar Act is enacted to
enable the Government to identify individuals for delivery of benefits,
subsidies and services under various welfare schemes. This is so
mentioned in Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act which states that proof of
Aadhaar number is necessary for receipt of such subsidies, benefits and
services. At the same time, it cannot be disputed that once a person enrols
himself and obtains Aadhaar number as mentioned in Section 3 of the
Aadhaar Act, such Aadhaar number can be used for many other purposes.
In fact, this Aadhaar number becomes the Unique Identity (UID) of that
person. Having said that, it is clear that there is no provision in Aadhaar Act
which makes enrolment compulsory. May be for the purpose of obtaining
benefits, proof of Aadhaar card is necessary as per Section 7 of the Act.
Proviso to Section 7 stipulates that if an Aadhaar number is not assigned to
enable an individual, he shall be offered alternate and viable means of
identification for delivery of the subsidy, benefit or service. According to the
petitioners, this proviso, with acknowledges alternate and viable means of
identification, and therefore makes Aadhaar optional and voluntary and the
enrolment is not necessary even for the purpose of receiving subsidies,
benefits and services under various schemes of the Government. The
respondents, however, interpret the proviso differently and there plea is that
the words 'if an Aadhaar number is not assigned to an individual' deal with
only that situation where application for Aadhaar has been made but for
certain reasons Aadhaar number has not been assigned as it may take
some time to give Aadhaar card. Therefore, this proviso is only by way of an
interim measure till Aadhaar number is assigned, which is otherwise
compulsory for obtaining certain benefits as stated in Section 7 of the
Aadhaar Act. Fact remains that as per the Government and UIDAI itself, the
requirement of obtaining Aadhaar number is voluntary. It has been so
claimed by UIDAI on its website and clarification to this effect has also been
issued by UIDAI. 91) Thus, enrolment under Aadhaar is voluntary. However, it is a moot
question as to whether for obtaining benefits as prescribed under Section 7
of the Aadhaar Act, it is mandatory to give Aadhaar number or not is a
debatable issue which we are not addressing as this very issue is squarely
raised which is the subject matter of other writ petition filed and pending in
this Court. 92) On the one hand, enrollment under Aadhaar card is voluntary, however,
for the purposes of Income Tax Act , Section 139AA makes it compulsory for
the assessees to give Aadhaar number which means insofar as income tax
assessees are concerned, they have to necessarily enroll themselves under
the Aadhaar Act and obtain Aadhaar number which will be their identification
number as that has become the requirement under the Income Tax Act . The 63 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

contention that since enrollment under Aadhaar Act is voluntary, it cannot be
compulsory under the Income Tax Act , cannot be countenanced. As already
mentioned above, purpose for enrollment under the Aadhaar Act is to avail
benefits of various welfare schemes etc. as stipulated in Section 7 of the
Aadhaar Act. Purpose behind Income Tax Act , on the other hand, is entirely
different which has already been discussed in detail above. For achieving
the said purpose, viz., to curb blackimongy, money laundering and tax
evasion etc., if the Parliament chooses to make the provision mandatory
under the Income Tax Act , the competence of the Parliament cannot be
questioned on the ground that it is impermissible only because under
Aadhaar Act, the provision is directory in nature. It is the prerogative of the
Parliament to make a particular provision directory in one statute and
mandatory/compulsory in other. That by itself cannot be a ground to
question the competence of the legislature. After all, Aadhaar Act is not a
mother Act. Two laws, i.e., Aadhaar Act, on the one hand, and law in the
form of Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act, on the other hand, are two
different stand alone provisions/laws and validity of one cannot be examined
in the light of provisions of other Acts. In Municipal Corporation of Delhi v.
Shiv Shanker44 , if the objects of two statutory provisions are different and
language of each statute is restricted to its own objects or subject, then they
are generally intended to run in parallel lines without meeting and there
would be no real conflict though apparently it may appear to be so on the
surface. We reproduce hereunder the discussion to the aforesaid aspect
contained in the said judgment : 93) In view of the above, we are not impressed by the contention of the
petitioners that the two enactments are contradictory with each other. A
harmonious reading of the two enactments would clearly suggests that
whereas enrollment of Aadhaaar is voluntary when it comes to taking
benefits of various welfare schemes even if it is presumed that requirement
of Section 7 of Aadhaar Act that it is necessary to provide Aadhaar number
to avail the benefits of schemes and services, it is upto a person to avail
those benefits or not. On the other hand, purpose behind enacting Section
139AA is to check a menace of black money as well as money laundering
and also to widen the income tax net so as to cover those persons who are
evading the payment of tax. 94) Main emphasis, however, is on the plea that Parliament or any State
legislature cannot pass a law that overrules a judgment thereby nullifying the
said decision , that too without removing the basis of the decision. This
argument appears to be attractive inasmuch as few orders are passed by
this Court in pending writ petitions which are to the effect that the enrollment
of Aadhaar would be voluntary. However, it needs to be kept in mind that the
orders have been passed in the petitions where Aadhaar scheme floated as
an executive/administrative measure has been challenged. In those cases,
the said orders are not passed in a case where the Court was dealing with a
statute passed by the Parliament. Further, these are interim orders as the
Court was of the opinion that till the matter is decided finally in the context of
Right to Privacy issue, the implementation of the said Aadhaar scheme
would remain voluntary. In fact, the main issue as to whether Aadhaar card
scheme whereby biometric data of an individual is collected violates Right to
Privacy and, therefore, is offensive of Article 21 of the Constitution or not is
yet to be decided. In the process, the Constitution Bench is also called upon
to decide as to whether Right to Privacy is a part of Article 21 of the
Constitution at all. Therefore, no final decision has been taken. In a situation
like this, it cannot be said that Parliament is precluded from or it is rendered
incompetent to pass such a law. That apart, the argument of the petitioners
is that the basis on which the aforesaid orders are passed has to be
removed, which is not done. According to the petitioners, it could be done
only by making Aadhaar Act compulsory. It is difficult to accept this
contention for two reasons: first, when the orders passed by this Court which
are relied upon by the petitioners were passed when Aadhaar Act was not
even enacted. Secondly, as already discussed in detail above, Aadhaar Act
and the law contained in Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act deal with two
different situations and operate in different fields. This argument of
legislature incompetence also, therefore, has fails. Whether Section
139AA of the Act is discriminatory and offends Article 14 of the Constitution
of India? CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE Article 14 , which enshrines the principle of equality as a fundamental right
mandates that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law
or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. It, thus, gives
the right to equal treatment in similar circumstances, both in privileges
conferred and in the liabilities imposed. In Sri Srinavasa Theatre & Ors. v.
Government of Tamil Nadu & Ors.45 , this Court explained that the two
expressions 'equality before law' and 'equal protection of law' do not mean
the same thing even if there may be much in common between them. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

(2) The differentia adopted as the basis of classification must have a rational
or reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the statute in
question. Thus, Article 14 in its ambit and sweep involves two facets, viz., it permits
reasonable classification which is founded on intelligible differentia and
accommodates the practical needs of the society and the differential must
have a rational relation to the objects sought to be achieved. Further, it does
not allow any kind of arbitrariness and ensures fairness and equality of
treatment. It is the fonjuris of our Constitution, the fountainhead of justice.
Differential treatment does not per se amount to violation of Article 14 of the
Constitution and it violates Article 14 only when there is no reasonable basis
and there are several tests to decide whether a classification is reasonable
or not and one of the tests will be as to whether it is conducive to the
functioning of modern society. 97) Insofar as the impugned provision is concerned, Mr. Datar had
conceded that first test that of reasonable classification had been satisfied
as he conceded that individual assesses form a separate class and the
impugned provision which targeted only individual assesses would not be
discriminatory on this ground. His whole Writ Petition (Civil) No. 247 of 2017
& Ors. Page 114 67 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

 emphasis was that Section 139AA did not satisfy the second limb of the
twin tests of classification as, according to him, this provision had no rational
nexus with the object sought to be achieved. 98) In this behalf, his submission was that if the purpose of the provision
was to curb circulation of black money, such an object was not achievable
by seeing PAN with Aadhaar inasmuch as Aadhaar is only for individuals.
His submission was that it is only the individuals who are responsible for
generating black money or money laundering. This was the basis for Mr.
Datar's submission. We find it somewhat difficult to accept such a
submission. 99) Unearthing black money or checking money laundering is to be
achieved to whatever extent possible. Various measures can be taken in
this behalf. If one of the measures is introduction of Aadhaar into the tax
regime, it cannot be denounced only because of the reason that the purpose
would not be achieved fully. Such kind of menace, which is deep rooted,
needs to be tackled by taking multiple actions and those actions may be
initiated at the same time. It is the combined effect of these actions which
may yield results and each individual action considered in isolation may not
be sufficient. Therefore, rationality of a particular measure cannot be
challenged on the ground that it has no nexus with the objective to be
achieved. Of course, there is a definite objective. For this purpose alone,
individual measure cannot be ridiculed. We have already taken note of the
recommendations of SIT on black money headed by Justice M.B. Shah. We
have also reproduced the measures suggested by the committee headed by
Chairman, CBDT on 'Measures to tackle black money in India and Abroad'.
They have, in no uncertain terms, suggested that one singular proof of
identity of a person for entering into finance/business transactions etc may
go a long way in curbing this foul practice. That apart, even if solitary
purpose of de-duplication of PAN cards is taken into consideration, that may
be sufficient to meet the second test of Article 14. It has come on record that
11.35 lakhs cases of duplicate PAN or fraudulent PAN cards have already
been detected and out of this 10.52 lakh cases pertain to individual
assessees. Seeding of Aadhaar with PAN has certain benefits which have
already been enumerated. Furthermore, even when we address the issue of
shell companies, fact remains that companies are after all floated by
individuals and these individuals have to produce documents to show their
identity. It was sought to be argued that persons found with duplicate/bogus
PAN cards are hardly 0.4% and, therefore, there was no need to have such
a provision. We cannot go by percentage figures. The absolute number of
such cases is 10.52 lakh, which figure, by no means, can be termed as
miniscule, to harm the economy and create adverse effect on the nation.
Respondents have argued that Aadhaar will ensure that there is no
duplication of identity as bio-metric will not allow that and, therefore, it may
check the growth of shell companies as well. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 100) Having regard to the aforesaid factors, it cannot be said that there is no
nexus with the objective sought to be achieved. 101) Another argument predicated on Article 14 advanced by Mr. Divan was
that it was discriminatory in nature as it created two classes; one class of
those who volunteered to enrol themselves under Aadhaar scheme and
other class of those who did not want it to be so. It was further submitted
that in this manner this provision had the effect of creating an artificial class
of those who object to Aadhaar scheme as self conscious persons. This is a
fallacious argument. 102) Validity of a legislative act cannot be challenged by creating artificial
classes by those who are objecting to the said provision and predicating the
argument of discrimination on that basis. When a law is made, all those who are covered by that law are supposed to
follow the same. No doubt, it is the right of a citizen to approach the Court
and question the constitutional validity of a particular law enacted by the
Legislature. However, merely because a section of persons opposes the
law, would not mean that it has become a separate class by itself. Two
classes, cannot be created on this basis, namely, one of those who want to
be covered by the scheme, and others who do not want to be covered
thereby. If such a proposition is accepted, every legislation would be prone
to challenge on the ground of discrimination. As far as plea of discrimination
is concerned, it has to be raised by showing that the impugned law creates
two classes without any reasonable classification and treats them differently. 103) The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have
universal application for all persons who are not by nature, attainment or
circumstances, in the same position, as the varying needs of different
classes of persons often require separate treatment. It is permissible for the
State to classify persons for legitimate purposes. The Legislature is also
competent to exercise its discretion and make classification. In the present
scenario the impugned legislation has created two classes, i.e. one class of
those persons who are assessees and other class of those persons who are
income tax assessees. It is because of the reason that the impugned
provision is applicable only to those who are filing income tax returns.
Therefore, the only question would be as to whether this classification is
reasonable or not. There cannot be any dispute that there is a reasonable
basis for differentiation and, therefore, equal protection clause enshrined
in Article 14 is not attracted. What Article 14 prohibits is class legislation and
not reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation. All income tax
asessees constitute one class and they are treated alike by the impugned
provision. 104) It may also be pointed out that the counsel for the respondents had
argued that doctrine of proportionality cannot be read into Article 14 of the
Constitution and in support reliance has been placed on the judgment of this 69 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

Court in E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu & Anr.47 . This aspect need
not be considered in detail inasmuch as Mr. Datar, learned counsel
appearing for the petitioner, had conceded at the Bar that he had invoked
the doctrine of proportionality only in the context of Article 19(1)(g). 105) We, therefore, reject the argument founded on Article 14 of the
Constitution. Whether impugned provision is violative of Article 19(1)(g) 106) Invocation of provisions of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution by the
petitioners was in the context of proviso to sub-section (2) of Section
139AA of the Act which contains the consequences of the failure to intimate
the Aadhaar number to such authority in such form and manner as may be
prescribed and reads as under: 107) The submission was that the aforesaid penal consequence was
draconian in nature and totally disproportionate to the non-compliance of
provisions contained in Section 139AA . It was pointed out that persons
effected by Section 139AA are only individuals, i.e. natural persons and not
legal/artificial personalities like companies, trusts, partnership firms, etc.
Thus, individuals who are professionals like lawyers, doctors, architects and
lakhs of businessmen having small or micro enterprises are going to suffer
such a serious consequence for failure to intimate Aadhaar number to the
designated authority. According to him, consequence of not having a PAN
card results in a virtual 'civil death' as one example given was that under
Rule 114B of the Rules, it will not be possible to operate bank accounts with
transaction above Rs.50,000/- or to use credit/debit cards or purchase motor
vehicles or property etc. 108) Section 139A deals with PAN. Sub-section (1) thereof requires four
classes of persons to have the PAN allotted. It reads as under: and who has not been allotted a permanent account number shall, within
such time, as may be prescribed, apply to the Assessing Officer for the
allotment of a permanent account number." 109) This PAN number has to be mentioned/quoted in number of
eventualities specified under sub-section (5), (5A), (5B), (5C), 5(D) and sub-
section (6) of Section 139A . These provisions read as under: CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE (i) in the statement furnished in accordance with the provisions of sub-
section (2C) of section 192 ; (ii) in all certificates furnished in accordance with the provisions of section
203 ; (iii) in all returns prepared and delivered or caused to be delivered in
accordance with the provisions of section 206 to any income-tax authority; (iv) in all statements prepared and delivered or caused to be delivered in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 200 : Provided
that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
specify different dates from which the provisions of this sub-section shall
apply in respect of any class or classes of persons: section (5) of section 206C ; (ii) in all returns prepared and delivered or caused to be delivered in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (5A) or sub-section (5B)
of section 206C to an income-tax authority; (iii) in all statements prepared and delivered or caused to be delivered in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 206C . (6) Every
person receiving any document relating to a transaction prescribed under
clause (c) of sub-section (5) shall ensure that the Permanent Account
Number or the General Index Register Number has been duly quoted in the
document." 110) Sub-section (8) empowers the Board to make Rules, inter alia,
prescribing the categories of transactions in relation to which PAN is to be 72 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

quoted. Rule 114B of the Rules lists the nature of transaction in sub-rule (a)
to (r) thereof where PAN number is to be given. 111) According to the petitioners, it amounts to violating their fundamental
right to carry on business/profession etc. as enshrined under Article
19(1)(g) of the Constitution which stands infringed and, therefore, it was for
the State to show that the restriction is reasonable and in the interest of
pubic under Article 19(6) of the Constitution. It is in this context, principle of
proportionality has been invoked by the petitioners with their submission that
restriction is unreasonable as it is utterly disproportionate for committing
breach of Section 139AA of the Act. 112) As noted above, Mr. Datar had relied upon the judgment of this Court
in Modern Dental College & Research Centre 48 and submitted that while
applying the test of proportionality, the respondents were specifically
required to demonstrate the that measures undertaken are necessary in that
there are no alternative measures that may similarly achieve that same
purpose with a lesser degree of limitation (narrow tailoring) and also that
there was proper relation between the importance of achieving the proper
purpose and the social importance of preventing the limitation on the
constitutional right, (balancing two competing interests). 113) In order to consider the aforesaid submissions we may bifurcate 48
Footnote 7 above Section 139AA in two parts, as follows: In fact, that is not even the argument of the petitioners. Entire emphasis of
the petitioners submissions, while addressing the arguments predicated
on Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, is on the consequences that ensue in
terms of proviso to sub-section (2) inasmuch as it is argued, as recorded
above, that the consequences provided will have the effect of paralysing the
right to carry on business/profession. Therefore, thrust is on the second part
of Section 139AA of the Act, which we proceed to deal with, now. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 115) At the outset, it may be mentioned that though PAN is issued under the
provisions of the Act ( Section 139A ), its function is not limited to giving this
number in the income-tax returns or for other acts to be performed under the
Act, as mentioned in sub-sections (5), (5A), (5B), 5(C), 5(D) and 6 of Section
139A . Rule 114B of the Rules mandates quoting of this PAN in various other
documents pertaining to different kinds of transactions listed therein. It is for
sale and purchase of immovable property valued at Rs.5 lakhs or more; sale
or purchase of motor vehicle etc., while opening deposit account with a sum
exceeding Rs.50,000/- with a banking company; while making deposit of
more than Rs.50,000/- in any account with Post Office, savings bank; a
contract of a value exceeding Rs.1 lakh for sale or purchase of securities as
defined under the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 ; while opening
an account with a banking company; making an application for installation of
a telephone connection; making payment to hotels and restaurants when
such payment exceeds Rs.25,000/- at any one time; while purchasing bank
drafts or pay orders for an amount aggregating Rs.50,000/- or more during
any one day, when payment in cash; payment in cash in connection with
travel to any foreign country of an amount exceeding Rs.25,000/- at any one
time; while making payment of an amount of Rs.50,000/- or more to a
mutual fund for purchase of its units or for acquiring shares or
debentures/bonds in a company or bonds issued by the Reserve Bank of
India; or when the transaction of purchase of bullion or jewellery is made by
making payment in cash to a dealer above a specified amount, etc. This
shows that for doing many activities of day to day nature, including in the
course of business, PAN is to be given. Pithily put, in the absence of PAN, it
will not be possible to undertake any of the aforesaid activities though this
requirement is aimed at curbing the tax evasion. Thus, if the PAN of a
person is withdrawn or is nullified, it definitely amounts to placing restrictions
on the right to do business as a business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Act.
The question would be as to whether these restrictions are reasonable and,
therefore, meet the requirement of clause (6) of Article 19. In this context,
when 'balancing' is to be done, doctrine of proportionality can be applied,
which was explained in the case of Modern Dental College & Research
Centre49, in the following manner: 60. Another significant feature which can be noticed from the reading of the
aforesaid clause is that the State is empowered to make any law relating to
the professional or technical qualifications necessary for practising any
profession or carrying on any occupation or trade or business. Thus, while
examining as to whether the impugned provisions of the statute and rules
amount to reasonable restrictions and are brought out in the interest of the
general public, the exercise that is required to be undertaken is the
balancing of fundamental right to carry on occupation on the one hand and
the restrictions imposed on the other hand. This is what is known as
"doctrine of proportionality". Jurisprudentially, "proportionality" can be
defined as the set of rules determining the necessary and sufficient
conditions for limitation of a constitutionally protected right by a law to be
constitutionally permissible. According to Aharon Barak (former Chief
Justice, Supreme Court of Israel), there are four sub-components of
proportionality which need to be satisfied [ Aharon Barak, Proportionality: 61. Modern theory of constitutional rights draws a fundamental distinction
between the scope of the constitutional rights, and the extent of its
protection. Insofar as the scope of constitutional rights is concerned, it marks the outer
boundaries of the said rights and defines its contents. The extent of its
protection prescribes the limitations on the exercises of the rights within its
scope. In that sense, it defines the justification for limitations that can be
imposed on such a right. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE 62. It is now almost accepted that there are no absolute constitutional rights
and all such rights are related. As per the analysis of Aharon Barak, two key
elements in developing the modern constitutional theory of recognising
positive constitutional rights along with its limitations are the notions of
democracy and the rule of law. Thus, the requirement of proportional
limitations of constitutional rights by a sub-constitutional law i.e. the statute,
is derived from an interpretation of the notion of democracy itself. Insofar as
the Indian Constitution is concerned, democracy is treated as the basic
feature of the Constitution and is specifically accorded a constitutional status
that is recognised in the Preamble of the Constitution itself. It is also
unerringly accepted that this notion of democracy includes human rights
which is the cornerstone of Indian democracy. Once we accept the aforesaid
theory (and there cannot be any denial thereof), as a fortiori, it has also to
be accepted that democracy is based on a balance between constitutional
rights and the public interests. In fact, such a provision in Article 19 itself on
the one hand guarantees some certain freedoms in clause (1) of Article
19 and at the same time empowers the State to impose reasonable
restrictions on those freedoms in public interest. This notion accepts the
modern constitutional theory that the constitutional rights are related. This
relativity means that a constitutional licence to limit those rights is granted
where such a limitation will be justified to protect public interest or the rights
of others. This phenomenon--of both the right and its limitation in the
Constitution--exemplifies the inherent tension between democracy's two
fundamental elements. On the one hand is the right's element, which
constitutes a fundamental component of substantive democracy; on the
other hand is the people element, limiting those very rights through their
representatives. These two constitute a fundamental component of the
notion of democracy, though this time in its formal aspect. How can this
tension be resolved? The answer is that this tension is not resolved by
eliminating the "losing" facet from the Constitution. Rather, the tension is
resolved by way of a proper balancing of the competing principles. This is
one of the expressions of the multi-faceted nature of democracy. Indeed, the
inherent tension between democracy's different facets is a "constructive
tension". It enables each facet to develop while harmoniously coexisting with
the others. The best way to achieve this peaceful coexistence is through
balancing between the competing interests. Such balancing enables each
facet to develop alongside the other facets, not in their place. This tension
between the two fundamental aspects--rights on the one hand and its
limitation on the other hand--is to be resolved by balancing the two so that
they harmoniously coexist with each other. This balancing is to be done
keeping in mind the relative social values of each competitive aspects when
considered in proper context. 63. In this direction, the next question that arises is as to what criteria is to
be adopted for a proper balance between the two facets viz. the rights and
limitations imposed upon it by a statute. Here comes the concept of
"proportionality", which is a proper criterion. To put it pithily, when a law
limits a constitutional right, such a limitation is constitutional if it is 76 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

proportional. The law imposing restrictions will be treated as proportional if it
is meant to achieve a proper purpose, and if the measures taken to achieve
such a purpose are rationally connected to the purpose, and such measures
are necessary. This essence of doctrine of proportionality is beautifully
captured by Dickson, C.J. of Canada in R. v. Oakes, in the following words
(at p. 138): Although the nature of the proportionality test will vary depending on the
circumstances, in each case courts will be required to balance the interests
of society with those of individuals and groups. There are, in my view, three important components of a proportionality test.
First, the measures adopted must be ... rationally connected to the
objective. Second, the means ... should impair "as little as possible" the right
or freedom in question ... Third, there must be a proportionality between the
effects of the measures which are responsible for limiting the Charter right or
freedom, and the objective which has been identified as of "sufficient
importance". The more severe the deleterious effects of a measure, the
more important the objective must be if the measure is to be reasonable and
demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society." 64. The exercise which, therefore, is to be taken is to find out as to whether
the limitation of constitutional rights is for a purpose that is reasonable and
necessary in a democratic society and such an exercise involves the
weighing up of competitive values, and ultimately an assessment based on
proportionality i.e. balancing of different interests. 65. We may unhesitatingly remark that this doctrine of proportionality,
explained hereinabove in brief, is enshrined in Article 19 itself when we read
clause (1) along with clause (6) thereof. While defining as to what
constitutes a reasonable restriction, this Court in a plethora of judgments
has held that the expression "reasonable restriction" seeks to strike a
balance between the freedom guaranteed by any of the sub-clauses of
clause (1) of Article 19 and the social control permitted by any of the clauses
(2) to (6). It is held that the expression "reasonable" connotes that the
limitation imposed on a person in the enjoyment of the right should not be
arbitrary or of an excessive nature beyond what is required in the interests
of public. Further, in order to be reasonable, the restriction must have a
reasonable relation to the object which the legislation seeks to achieve, and
must not go in excess of that object (see P.P. Enterprises v. Union of India 77 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

[ P.P. Enterprises v. Union of India , (1982) 2 SCC 33). At the same time,
reasonableness of a restriction has to be determined in an objective manner
and from the standpoint of the interests of the general public and not from
the point of view of the persons upon whom the restrictions are imposed or
upon abstract considerations (see Mohd. Hanif Quareshi v. State of
Bihar AIR 1958 SC 731). In M.R.F. Ltd. v. State of Kerala , (1998) 8 SCC
227, this Court held that in examining the reasonableness of a statutory
provision one has to keep in mind the following factors: This is even the ethos of Indian Constitution which casts a duty on the State, 78 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

in the form of 'Directive Principles of State Policy', to take adequate and
effective steps for betterment of such underprivileged classes. State is
bound to take adequate measures to provide education, health care,
employment and even cultural opportunities and social standing to these
deprived and underprivileged classes. It is not that Government has not
taken steps in this direction from time to time. At the same time, however,
harsh reality is that benefits of these schemes have not reached those
persons for whom that are actually meant. India has achieved significant economic growth since independence. In
particular, rapid economic growth has been achieved in the last 25 years,
after the country adopted the policy of liberalisation and entered the era of,
what is known as, globalisation. Economic growth in the last decade has
been phenomenal and for many years, the Indian economy grew at highest
rate in the world. At the same time, it is also a fact that in spite of significant
political and economic success which has proved to be sound and
sustainable, the benefits thereof have not percolated down to the poor and
the poorest. In fact, such benefits are reaped primarily by rich and upper
middle classes, resulting into widening the gap between the rich and the
poor. Jean Dreze & Amartya Sen eithly narrate the position as under 50: CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE (iii) Thirdly, Aadhaar or UID, which has come to be known as most
advanced and sophisticated infrastructure, may facilitate law enforcement
agencies to take care of problem of terrorism to some extent and may also
be helpful in checking the crime and also help investigating agencies in
cracking the crimes. No doubt, going by aforesaid, and may be some other
similarly valid considerations, it is the intention of the Government to give
phillip to Aadhaar movement and encourage the people of this country to
enroll themselves under the Aadhaar scheme. 119) Wether such a scheme should remain voluntary or it can be made
mandatory imposing compulsiveness on the people to be covered by
Aadhaar is a different question which shall be addressed at the appropriate
stage. At this juncture, it is only emphasised that malafides cannot be
attributed to this scheme. In any case, we are concerned with the vires
of Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 which is a statutory provision.
This Court is, thus, dealing with the aspect of judicial review of legislation.
Insofar as this provision is concerned, the explanation of the respondents in
the counter affidavit, which has already been reproduced above, is that the
primary purpose of introducing this provision was to take care of the problem
of multiple PAN cards obtained in fictitious names. Such multiple cards in
fictitious names are obtained with the motive of indulging into money
laundering, tax evasion, creation and channelising of black money. It is
mentioned that in a de-duplication exercises, 11.35 lakhs cases of duplicate
PANs/fraudulent PANs have been detected. Out of these, around 10.52
lakhs pertain to individual assessees. Parliament in its wisdom thought that
one PAN to one person can be ensured by adopting Aadhaar for allottment
of PAN to individuals. As of today, that is the only method available i.e. by
seeding of existing PAN with Aadhaar. It is perceived as the best method,
and the only robust method of de-duplication of PAN database. It is claimed
by the respondents that the instance of duplicate Aadhaar is almost non-
existent. It is also claimed that seeding of PAN with Aadhaar may contribute
to widening of the tax case as well, by checking the tax evasions and
bringing in to tax hold those persons who are liable to pay tax but
deliberately avoid doing so. It would be apposite to quote the following
discussion by the Comptroller and Auditor General in its report for the year
2011: (emphasis supplied) The total direct tax collection has increased by 128.8
per cent during the period 2005-06 to 2009-10. The increase in the tax
collection was around nine times as compared to increase in the assessee
base. It should be the constant endeavour of the Department to ensure that
the entire assessee base, once correctly identified is duly meeting the entire
tax liability. However, no assurance could be obtained that the tax liability on
the assessee is being assessed and collected properly. This comment is
corroborated in para 2.4.1 of Chapter 2 of this report where we have
mentioned about our detection of under charge of tax amouting to Rs.
12,842.7 crore in 19,230 cases audited during 2008-09. However, given the
fact that ours is a test audit, Department needs to take firm steps towards
strengthening the controls available on the existing statutes towards deriving
an assurance on the tax collections." 120) Likewise, the Finance Minister in his Budget speech in February, 2013
described the extent of tax evasion and offering lesser income tax than what
is actually due thereby labelling India as tax known compliance, with the
following figures: 121) The respondents have also claimed that linking of Aadhaar with PAN is
consistent with India's international obligations and goals. In this behalf, it is
pointed out that India has signed the Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA)
with the USA on July 9, 2015, for Improving International Tax Compliance
and implementing the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA). India
has also signed a multilateral agreement on June 3, 2015, to automatically
exchange information based on Article 6 of the Convention on Mutual
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters under the Common Reporting
Scheme (CRS), formally referred to as the Standard for Automatic Exchange
of Financial Account Information (AEoI). As part of India's commitment
under FATCA and CRS, financial sector entities capture the details about
the customers using the PAN. In case the PAN or submitted details are
found to be incorrect or fictitious, it will create major embarrassment for the
country. Under Non-filers Monitoring System (NMS), Income Tax
Department identifies non-filers with potential tax liabilities. Data analysis is
carried out to identify non-filers about whom specific information was
available in AIR, CIB data and TDS/TCS Returns. Email/SMS and letters are
sent to the identified non-filers communicating the information summary and
seeking to know the submission details of Income tax return. In a large
number of cases (more than 10 lac PAN every year) it is seen that the PAN
holder neither submits the response and in many cases the letters are return
unserved. Field verification by fields formations have found that in a large
number of cases, the PAN holder is untraceable. In many cases, the PAN
holder mentions that the transaction does not relate to them. There is a
need to strengthen PAN by linking it with Aadhaar/biometric information to
prevent use of wrong PAN for high value transactions. 122) While considering the aforesaid submission of the petitioners, one has
to keep in mind the aforesaid purpose of the impugned provision and what it
seeks to achieve. The provision is aimed at seeding Aadhaar with PAN. We
have already held, while considering the submission based on Article 14 of
the Constitution, that the provision is based on reasonable classification and 83 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

that has nexus with the objective sought to be achieved. One of the main
objectives is to de-duplicate PAN cards and to bring a situation where one
person is not having more than one PAN card or a person is not able to get
PAN cards in assumed/fictitious names. In such a scenario, if those persons
who violate Section 139AA of the Act without any consequence, the
provision shall be rendered toothless. It is the prerogative of the Legislature
to make penal provisions for violation of any law made by it. In the instant
case, requirement of giving Aadhaar enrolment number to the designated
authority or stating this number in the income tax returns is directly
connected with the issue of duplicate/fake PANs. 123) At this juncture, we will also like to quote the following passages from
the nine Judge Bench judgment of this Court in Jindal Stainless Ltd.52,
which discussion though is in different context, will have some relevance to
the issue at hand as well: 111. Reference may also be made to the following passage appearing in
McCulloch v. Maryland, 17 US 316 (1819) where Chief Justice Marshall
recognized the power of taxation and pointed out that the only security
against the abuse of such power lies in the structure of the government
itself. The court said: 112. To the same effect is the decision of this Court in State of Madras v.
N.K. Nataraja Mudaliar (AIR 1969 SC 147) where this Court recognized that
political and economic forces would operate against the levy of an unduly
high rate of tax. The Court said: 124) Therefore, it cannot be denied that there has to be some provision
stating the consequences for not complying with the requirements of Section
139AA of the Act, more particularly when these requirements are found as 85 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

not violative of Articles 14 and 19 (of course , eschewing the discussion
on Article 21 herein for the reasons already given). If Aadhar number is not
given, the aforesaid exercise may not be possible. 125) Having said so, it becomes clear from the aforesaid discussion that
those who are not PAN holders, while applying for PAN, they are required to
give Aadhaar number. This is the stipulation of sub-section (1) of Section
139AA , which we have already upheld. At the same time, as far as existing PAN holders are concerned, since the
impugned provisions are yet to be considered on the touchstone of Article
21 of the Constitution, including on the debate around Right to Privacy and
human dignity, etc. as limbs of Article 21 , we are of the opinion that till the
aforesaid aspect of Article 21 is decided by the Constitution Bench a partial
stay of the aforesaid proviso is necessary. Those who have already
enrolled themselves under Aadhaar scheme would comply with the
requirement of sub-section (2) of Section 139AA of the Act. Those who still
want to enrol are free to do so. However, those assessees who are not
Aadhaar card holders and do not comply with the provision of Section
139(2) , their PAN cards be not treated as invalid for the time being. It is only
to facilitate other transactions which are mentioned in Rule 114B of the
Rules. We are adopting this course of action for more than one reason. We
are saying so because of very severe consequences that entail in not
adhering to the requirement of sub-section (2) of Section 139AA of the Act.
A person who is holder of PAN and if his PAN is invalidated, he is bound to
suffer immensely in his day to day dealings, which situation should be
avoided till the Constitution Bench authoritatively determines the argument
of Article 21 of the Constitution. Since we are adopting this course of action,
in the interregnum, it would be permissible for the Parliament to consider as
to whether there is a need to tone down the effect of the said proviso by
limiting the consequences. 126) However, at the same time, we find that proviso to Section
139AA(2) cannot be read retrospectively. If failure to intimate the Aadhaar
number renders PAN void ab initio with the deeming provision that the PAN
allotted would be invalid as if the person had not applied for allotment of
PAN would have rippling effect of unsettling settled rights of the parties. It
has the effect of undoing all the acts done by a person on the basis of such
a PAN. It may have even the effect of incurring other penal consequences
under the Act for earlier period on the ground that there was no PAN
registration by a particular assessee. The rights which are already accrued
to a person in law cannot be taken away. Therefore, this provision needs to
be read down by making it clear that it would operate prospectively. 127) Before we part with, few comments are needed, as we feel that these
are absolutely essential: Since the said matter has already been referred to the Constitution Bench,
we have consciously avoided discussion, though submissions in this behalf
have been taken note of. We feel that all the aspect of Article 21 needs to be
dealt with by the Constitution Bench. That is a reason we have deliberately
refrained from entering into the said arena. (ii) It was submitted by the counsel for the petitioners themselves that they
would be confining their challenge to the impugned provision on Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution as well as competence of the Legislature, while
addressing the arguments, other facets of Article 21 of the Constitution were
also touched upon. Since we are holding that Section 139AA of the Income
Tax Act is not violative of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and
also that there was no impediment in the way of Parliament to insert such a
statutory provision (subject to reading down the proviso to sub-section (2)
of Section 139AA of the Act as given above), we make it clear that the
impugned provision has passed the muster of Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the
Constitution. However, more stringent test as to whether this statutory
provision violates Article 21 or not is yet to be qualified. Therefore, we make
it clear that Constitutional validity of this provision is upheld subject to the
outcome of batch of petitions referred to the Constitution Bench where the
said issue is to be examined. (iii) It is also necessary to highlight that a large section of citizens feel
concerned about possible data leak, even when many of those support
linkage of PAN with Aadhaar. This is a concern which needs to be
addressed by the Government. It is important that the aforesaid
apprehensions are assuaged by taking proper measures so that confidence
is instilled among the public at large that there is no chance of unauthorised
leakage of data whether it is done by tightening the operations of the
contractors who are given the job of enrollment, they being private persons
or by prescribing severe penalties to those who are found guilty of leaking
the details, is the outlook of the Government. However, we emphasise that
measures in this behalf are absolutely essential and it would be in the
fitness of things that proper scheme in this behalf is devised at the earliest. 128) Subject to the aforesaid, these writ petitions are disposed of in the
following manner: CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE (ii) We do not find any conflict between the provisions of Aadhaar Act
and Section 139AA of the Income Tax Act inasmuch as when interpreted
harmoniously, they operate in distinct fields. (iii) Section 139AA of the Act is not discriminatory nor it offends equality
clause enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. (iv) Section 139AA is also not violative of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution
insofar as it mandates giving of Aadhaar enrollment number for applying
PAN cards in the income tax returns or notified Aadhaar enrollment number
to the designated authorities. Further, proviso to sub-section (2) thereof has
to be read down to mean that it would operate only prospective. (v) The validity of the provision upheld in the aforesaid manner is subject to
passing the muster of Article 21 of the Constitution, which is the issue before
the Constitution Bench in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 494 of 2012 and other
connected matters. Till then, there shall remain a partial stay on the
operation of proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 139AA of the Act, as
described above. No costs. .............................................J.

(A.K. SIKRI) .............................................J.

(ASHOK BHUSHAN) NEW DELHI; JUNE 09, 2017. Date : 09/06/2017 These petitions were called on for judgment today. Writ Petition (Civil) No. 247 of 2017 & Ors. Page 155

Hon'ble Mr.Justice A.K.Sikri pronounced the judgment of the Bench
comprising His Lordship and Hon'ble Mr.Justice Ashok Bhushan. These writ petitions are disposed of in the following manner: No costs." 8. Therefore, even without Annexure-A1 and the study, there is only one

single police force in the State of Karnataka as legislative formation cannot

be diminished or diluted by any executive authority under any pretext other

than by amendment of the law. 9. The Joint Secretary of the UPSC and the Under Secretary of the

DoPT have appeared before us at our request and explained the matters. CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

They would say that they need a clarification on this point since the

Government of Karnataka had apparently taken ambivalent stance. The

applicant produces a letter of 2018. 10. But at the same time, the Department Representative from the Home

Department agrees on questioning that as early as in 2018 itself they have

already submitted to the DPAR the names of the 6 persons as aforesaid for

being considered into the IPS except one held back for a DE. The letter is as

follows: CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

 Sl. Name of the Officers
 No. (Smt / Sri)
 1 KRIHNAPPA
 2 RAMAKRISHNA PRASAD, M. V.
 3 BASAVARAJ SHARANAPPA JILLE
 4 JANARDHANA
 5 DR: RAMAKRISHNA
 6 PRASAD B. M.
 7 K. S. RAGHUNATH 1. Annexure-3.2 (List of the State Police Service Officers eligible for
 the promotion to IPS cadre as per the Seniority for the year 2016) 2. Annexure-7 (Annual Performance Report File and Details of
 Officers for the year 2012-13 to 2016-17)
 Anneuxre-4.1 (Departmental Enquiry Report) 3. Annexure-4.2 (Details of punishment imposed in the departmental
 enquiry since last 10 years) 4. Annexure-6 - Information regarding Adverse Remarks given to
 Eligible Officers 5. Annexure-8 - List of cased pending / disposed before the Court. 6. Provisional Seniority List of Assistant Commandant (KSRP) as on
 19.05.2018 7. Confirmation order of Officers in Assistant Commandant (KSRP) 8. Government Order No. HD 104 PoSiPa 2016 (P3) dated
 05.12.2017 by which Officers of Sl. No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 were given
 confirmation in the cadre of Assistant Commandant (KSRP) 9. Translated copy of Government Order No. HD 260 PoSiPa 2016,
 dated 04.08.2017
 Further, the Annual Performance Report in respect of the State
Civil Officer at Sl. No. 1 of the list has already been sent vide
Unofficial Note Number: HD 104 PoSiPa 2016, dated 26.02.2016. A
copy of the latest portrait of the officer has also been sent to take
further action as per the rule. Yours faithfully
 Sd/- (A. Vijayakumar)
 Under secretary to Government,
 Department of Home, (Police
 Services-A) 92 OA.No.170/00182/2020/CAT/BANGALORE & CP.No.170/00141/2019/CAT/BANGALORE

 To,
 Deputy Secretary to Government,
 DPAR (Services)"