1. The appellant filed an application dated 17.08.2019 under the Right to
Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act ) before the Central Public Information Officer
(CPIO) Life Insurance Corporation of India, Bhopal. The appellant seeking
information on three points pertaining to the management/storage of data of
customers in LIC Bhopal, which is as under : 2. The CPIO vide letter dt. 03.09.2019 provided point wise reply to the
Appellant. Aggrieved with the reply furnished by the CPIO, the appellant filed
the first appeal dated 01-10-2019 requesting that the information should be
provided to him. The first appellate authority vide its order dated 14.10.2019
upheld the reply furnished by the CPIO and disposed of the Appeal. Thereafter
the appellant filed a second appeal u/ Section 19(3) of the RTI Act before the
Commission on the ground that information has not been provided to him and
requested the Commission to direct the respondent to provide complete and
correct information. Hearing: 3. The appellant attended the hearing through audio-call. The respondent,
Shri Vikas Kumar Srivastava, Manager (CRM)/ CPIO attended the hearing
through audio-call. 4. The respondent submitted their written submissions dated 13.09.2021 and
the same has been taken on record. 5. The appellant submitted that complete and correct information has not
been provided to him by the respondent on his RTI application dated
17.08.2019. He further submitted that the respondent authority is selling
personal data of its policy holders as well as the agents to private companies and
around 20 private companies have the data of the policy holders. 6. The respondent while reiterating the replies of the CPIO/ FAA submitted
that the CPIO vide letter dated 03.09.2019 furnished a categorical point wise
reply to the appellant. The FAA vide its order dated 14.10.2019 further
informed the appellant that the queries of the appellant are in the form of
seeking clarification which does not come under the definition of Section. 2 (f)
of the RTI Act, 2005 and disposed of his appeal. The respondent further
submitted that there is no lacuna on the part of the respondent and no data of
their policy holder had been sold or leaked from their end. Decision: 7. The Commission, after hearing the submissions of both the parties and
after perusal of records, observes that the query of the appellant is in the nature
of seeking clarification/explanation/confirmation from the CPIO. The CPIO is
not supposed to create information; or to interpret information; or to compile
information as per the desire of the appellant under the ambit of the RTI Act . As
per Section 2(f) of the RTI Act, the reasons/opinions/advices can only be
provided to the applicants if it is available on record of the public authority. The
CPIO cannot create information in the manner as sought by the appellant. The Page 2 of 5 CPIO is only a communicator of information based on the records held in the
office and hence, he cannot be expected to do research work to deduce anything
from the material therein and then supply it to him. 8. In this regard, the Commission referred to the definition of information
u/s Section 2(f) of the RTI Act, 2005 which is reproduced below: In this context a reference was made to the Hon'ble Supreme Court decision in
2011 (8) SCC 497 ( CBSE and Anr. Vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay and Ors ),
wherein it was held as under: The reference to 'opinion' or 'advice' n the definition of 'information' in section 2(f) of the Act, only refers to such material available in the
 records of the public authority. Many public authorities have, as a public
 relation exercise, provide advice, guidance and opinion to the citizens.
 But that is purely voluntary and should not be confused with any
 obligation under the RTI Act ." Furthermore, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Khanapuram Gandaiah
Vs. Administrative Officer and Ors. Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.34868
OF 2009 (Decided on January 4, 2010) had held as under: This definition shows that an applicant under Section 6 of the RTI Act can
 get any information which is already in existence and accessible to the
 public authority under law. Of course, under the RTI Act an applicant is
 entitled to get copy of the opinions, advices, circulars, orders, etc., but he Page 3 of 5 cannot ask for any information as to why such opinions, advices,
 circulars, orders, etc. have been passed." 7. "....the Public Information Officer is not supposed to have any material
 which is not before him; or any information he could have obtained under
 law. Under Section 6 of the RTI Act, an applicant is entitled to get only
 such information which can be accessed by the "public authority" under
 any other law for the time being in force. The answers sought by the
 petitioner in the application could not have been with the public authority
 nor could he have had access to this information and Respondent No. 4
 was not obliged to give any reasons as to why he had taken such a
 decision in the matter which was before him." Similarly, the High Court of Bombay in Dr. Celsa Pinto, Ex-Officio Joint
Secretary (School Education) vs The Goa State Information Commission on 3 April, 2008 (2008 (110) Bom L R 1238) had held as under: The definition cannot include within its fold answers to the question why
 which would be the same thing as asking the reason for a justification for
 a particular thing. The Public Information Authorities cannot expect to
 communicate to the citizen the reason why a certain thing was done or
 not done in the sense of a justification because the citizen makes a
 requisition about information. Justifications are matter within the domain
 of adjudicating authorities and cannot properly be classified as
 information." 9. Nonetheless the CPIO vide its letter dated 03.09.2019 furnished a
categorical point-wise reply to the appellant beyond the scope of the RTI Act,
2005 . Therefore, in the light of the above-mentioned ratios, the Commission
upholds the reply furnished by the respondent and hence no further intervention Page 4 of 5 of the Commission is required in the matter. For the redressal of his grievance,
regarding the data leak of the policy holders by the respondent public authority,
the appellant is advised to file a complaint to the higher officials of the
respondent authority or approach an appropriate forum. 10. With the above observations, the appeal is disposed of. 11. Copy of the decision be provided free of cost to the parties. नीरजकु मारगु ाा)
 Neeraj Kumar Gupta (नीरजकु
 Information Commissioner (सू
 सूचनाआयु )

 दनांक / Date : 05-10-2021

Authenticated true copy
(अिभ मािणतस यािपत ित)

S. C. Sharma (एस. सी. शमा ),
Dy. Registrar (उप-पंजीयक),
(011-26105682)

Addresses of the parties: