I got the email on 21 Aug about Job Opining in UAE ( from Indeed India Operations - Arushi Rathore - Senior Executive (HR) ) opening in "Arooha Tours & Travel Bur Dubai" is offering the position of "Cruise Operation". they Ask me to send some Documents to verify and mention that ' If your documents are approved from our selector team, then you need to submit only Rs. 1, 600/-, as application charge, for generating your recruitment code.' I send my Doc. 1. Updated Resume. 2. Passport Size Photo. 3. Passport Scan Copy (Both Side). 4. Higher Qualification Certificate Or Degree. 5. Experience Certificate/ Offer Letter/ Last Salary Slip. After that Next day i got a call that I am eligible so if i want to proceed i have to pay INr 1600 as process fees and after that and Her sr. Will connect me for further process . Sanjeev Varma ( Sr. Manager ) Indeed India Operations Has call me to connect with Employer Next day They arrange Telephonic Interview With Mr. Rahman Shaikh who Took my Telephonic Interview as Director Of the Arooha Tours & Travel Bur Dubai. On Call he mention me to get Doc Verification withing 48 hrs to release offer . my Employer has given you 48 hours of time to complete documents verification process. Mr. Sanjeev inform me to pay 7, 248/- INR to process Doc. verification which I paid through NEFT in there mention Axis Bank. ( I also got the receipt of the same) in 2 days I got email that Doc. verification is completed and they send me offer letter. upon asking employeer HR Department's mail ID / contact info He mention me that as Director Directly talking to you they will give me HR's contact info once all verifications are clear . Mr. Sanjeev inform me that I need to pay INR 6500/- again as Medical Verification . Which I again paid and got receipt for the same. he also mention that all these Expense I will get re-embus once i join the company. after couple of days Mr. Sanjeev Called me and inform the that Employer wants to talk to me for Visa requirement . He connect me with Mr. Rahman Shaikh and he asked me if i want 1 year Contract basis Visa or permanent Visa and I need to pay Security Deposit with them for the same and once i join the company they will refund me the amount . he ask me to confirm and pay withing 3 hrs Where i Feel Things are Fishy . i mention i need to discussed this with my Family and after couple of days i can confirm the same. upon that Mr. Rahman Shaikh mention that if i dont confirm the same in 3 hrs they will withdrow the offer which i still rejected the deadline. After 3 days i again got the call from Mr Sanjeev and he mention that he spoke to employer and mention that they agree to give couple of days time to think and pay for the Visa . i request Sanjeev to send me the mail for the same . i got a mail that ; "As per your conversation with the employer they given you two options for both options you need to submit some security amount. Details are below mention. 1. One years contract - 2500 AED (56, 410/-INR) 2. Permanent - 3500 AED (78, 974/-INR) This amount I need to submit as a security, Once you will submit this amount then employer will apply your work visa and flight tickets. I will get reimbursement from the employer on joining. But for Employers Security he again give me Indeed's Account details That Time I check the Review of Indeed Fraud cases and Found that this is a total Scam going on. I couldn't find Mr. Rahman Shaikh on Arooha Travels Linked in page nor on any company details site. This Indeed India Operations Company has taken INR 15348/- from me as verification processing frees. How will i get my money back ?