SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: TIL the first BSE internal trading scam that hit Manmohan Sigh's finance ministry term in 1991
DATE: 2017-06-06
SCORE: 28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6fkuf0/til_the_first_bse_internal_trading_scam_that_hit/

--- POST TEXT ---

**Source**- The falling man by Caravan

&gt;*It may be instructive to return briefly to the first scandal of Manmohan Singh’s political life: one considerably less significant than the 2G scam, but perhaps indicative of a troubling tendency that now threatens to overshadow the rest of his impressive career. His tendency to not act on his convictions and remain indecisive at crucial moments*

&gt;In April 1992, barely 10 months into his tenure as finance minister, the booming Bombay Stock Exchange had what was then its biggest-ever crash, falling 13 percent in a single day. The collapse had been caused by a stockbroker named Harshad Mehta who had colluded with senior officials in public sector banks—which come under the control of the finance ministry—to siphon funds from the banks into the stock market, which crashed when the fraud was revealed. According to an official in PV Narasimha Rao’s PMO, when internal intelligence reports about the fraud first reached the finance ministry in March 1992, Singh anxiously called an emergency meeting with cabinet secretary Naresh Chandra, finance secretary Montek Singh Ahluwalia and economic adviser Ashok Desai to discuss the situation.

&gt;The former PMO official recalled that Singh’s initial response had been a decidedly defensive one. “It was a systemic failure,” Singh proposed. “One thing led to another.” When one of them suggested to Singh that nobody would buy this argument, and that Mehta should be investigated and forced to offload his shares, Singh demurred. “Then there will be a lot of noise,” he said. “People will write about it, everyone will know.” A few weeks later, news of the scam leaked out anyway. An investigation began and a Joint Parliamentary Committee was formed in August 1992 to probe the scandal.

&gt;Then as now, not even Singh’s opponents alleged any impropriety on his part, but the finance ministry faced severe criticism for its failure to detect the scam and its sluggish pursuit of the perpetrators. In another echo of his present troubles, Singh’s first reactions left the impression he was untroubled by the scandal; under attack from the opposition in the Parliament, he famously quipped that he did not “lose sleep simply because the stock market goes up one day and falls next day”.

&gt;Singh would be cleared of responsibility in the JPC’s final report, but the committee took note of his remarks and criticised his apparent indifference: “It is good to have a finance minister who does not lose his sleep but one would wish that when such cataclysmic changes take place all around, some alarm would ring to disturb his slumber.”