In a landmark moment for the crypto industry, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on January 10 approved Bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETFs) more than a decade after it was first proposed. This move will allow approved entities to list Bitcoin ETFs on stock exchanges and investors can buy and sell these ETFs as they would buy and sell stocks.

The SEC specifically approved Bitcoin ETF applications from Bitwise, Grayscale, Hashdex, BlackRock, Valkyrie, BZX, Invesco, VanEck, WisdomTree, Fidelity and Franklin. Many of the Bitcoin ETFs from these entities are expected to start trading on exchanges as early as today (January 11).

An ETF is a bundle of assets similar to a mutual fund that generally tracks a group of stocks, such as an index like the S&P 500 or a sector or a theme. But unlike mutual funds, ETFs can be bought and sold on stock exchanges like the Nasdaq and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the same way a regular stock can.

A Bitcoin ETF holds Bitcoin as an asset and tracks its price. Importantly, these ETFs allow investors, including traditional institutional investors, to have exposure to the cryptocurrency without having to directly purchase Bitcoin by setting up crypto wallets and accounts with crypto exchanges. It also enables exposure to Bitcoin in a more regulated fashion as ETFs have to make certain disclosures and must adhere to the rules of the exchanges they trade on.

SEC had already allowed Bitcoin futures ETF in 2021. The current approval is for spot Bitcoin ETFs, which track the current price of the crypto as opposed to future speculated prices.

Despite the approval, the SEC cautioned against the speculative nature of Bitcoin.

“Bitcoin is primarily a speculative, volatile asset that’s also used for illicit activity including ransomware, money laundering,  sanction evasion, and terrorist financing.  While we approved the listing and trading of certain spot bitcoin ETP shares today, we did not approve or endorse bitcoin. Investors should remain cautious about the myriad risks associated with bitcoin and products whose value is tied to crypto.” — SEC Chait Gary Gensler

Some within the SEC including Commissioner Mark T. Uyeda and Commissioner Caroline A. Crenshaw expressed concerns with the approval as well. “I am deeply concerned about today’s actions. I am concerned that these products will flood the markets and land squarely in the retirement accounts of U.S. households who can least afford to lose their savings to the fraud and manipulation that appears prevalent in the spot bitcoin markets,” Crenshaw remarked. You can read Crenshaw’s detailed dissent statement here .

The SEC previously rejected applications for Bitcoin ETFs because it found them unsafe for investors. But one of the applicants, Grayscale, took the SEC to court and the court in August 2023 ruled that the SEC failed to adequately explain its reasoning in disapproving the application. This ruling paved the way for yesterday’s approval.

For an interesting visual walkthrough of what it took the crypto industry to get this approval, here is a timeline from Axios .

Strangely, a day before the approval, the SEC’s X account was hacked and a post falsely claimed that the SEC had approved Bitcoin ETFs, leading to some confusion . The hack is currently being investigated by the FBI.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event