- 1 The Plaintiffs had sought and obtained on 09-08-2012 an
 
 ex-parte order of arrest of the 1st Defendant-Vessel M.T. Hartati in

 respect of their alleged claim as set out in the particulars of claim at
 
 "Ex. E" in the plaint. The claim was in sum of Rs. 24,75,000/- which the

 owners of the 1st Defendant-Vessel furnished as security without
 

 prejudice to their rights and defences. Accordingly, the Order of arrest
 

 of the 1st Defendant-Vessel was vacated by an order passed on

 16-08-2012 and the vessel was directed to be released upon the owner

 of the 1st Defendant depositing the amount of Rs. 24,75,000/- as

 security with the Prothonotary and Senior Master. 2 While obtaining the Order of arrest, the Plaintiffs had in para

 2 averred as under :- 3 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 vessels which are sister vessels of Defendant No. 1.
 All the vessels are owned and managed by Defendant

 
 No. 2." (emphasis supplied)

 
 3 This para 2 was amended pursuant to leave granted by an

 order dated 28-06-2013. 4 The para 3 of the Plaint reads as under :- 5 The para 4 of the Plaint reads as under :- 6 After obtaining the Order of arrest, the Plaintiffs had on

 
 leave being granted amended para 2 and the amended para 2 reads as

 under:- 7 It has to be noted that the case that the Plaintiff made out in
 

 para 2 before amendment is entirely different from the case made out

 post amendment. 8 The owners of Defendant No. 1 have taken out the present

 Notice of Motion for reducing the security of Rs. 24,75,000/- to

 Rs. 1,32,129.49 and the excess amount of Rs. 23,42,870.51/- be

 returned to Defendant No. 1 along with interest accrued thereon. During the course of argument it was submitted that the

 amount of Rs. 1,32,129.49 which is equivalent to about US$ 2380.71 ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 5 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 has subsequently being paid to the Plaintiffs and, therefore, the entire

 
 security of Rs. 24,75,000/- has to be returned to the owners of

 Defendant No. 1. 9 It is the case of Defendant No. 1 that the particulars of claim

 
 at "Ex. E" provides a list of 36 invoices as outstanding. Only the

 invoices at items 32, 33 and 34 pertain to 1st Defendant-Vessel and

 
 the rest belonged to vessels which are not owned by the owners of 1st
 
 Defendant-Vessel. Therefore, the 1st Defendant-Vessel is not a sister

 ship of the other vessels mentioned in "Ex. E" to the plaint and
 
 therefore, the Plaintiffs were not entitled to an order of arrest of the 1st

 Defendant-Vessel in any case for alleged supplies made to the other
 

 vessels. 10 During the course of arguments, Counsel for Defendant

 No. 1 agreed that Defendant No. 2 also belongs to BLT group though in

 affidavit-in-rejoinder it is not admitted that BLT owns Defendant No. 2. He hastened to add, that does not make Hartati Shipping PT Limited,

 the owners of 1st Defendant-Vessel, liable in respect of claims against

 the vessels owned by other companies belonging to BLT. He further

 clarified that he was appearing only for Defendant No. 1. The Counsel

 submitted that the vessels mentioned in "Ex. E" to the plaint at serial

 nos. 1 to 31, 35 and 36 are not sister vessels of 1st Defendant-Vessel ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 6 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 and in any case the Plaintiffs have not made out a case for lifting of

 
 corporate veil. He added, for a vessel to be called a sister vessel she

 has to be owned by the same person who is liable for the maritime

 
 claim and who was, when the claim arose, owner of the ship in respect

 of which the maritime claim arose. In this case each vessel was owned

 
 by a different legal entity and therefore, even if all these separate legal

 entities are subsidiaries of another legal entity, the ships owned by

 
 each of these legal entities do not become sister ships. 11 Mr. Pratap, Counsel for the Defendant No. 1, relied on Article 3 (2) of the International Convention on Arrest of Ships, 1999. Article 3 (2) (a) of the Convention provides as under:- 12 Therefore, the vessels not being owned by the same person

 who is liable for the maritime claim do not become sister ships and

 what is important is the registered owner of the vessels should be the

 same entity. 7 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 13 On the issue of lifting of corporate veil, Mr. Pratap,

 
 submitted that the Plaintiffs have to first allege in the plaint that each of

 the vessel was being owned in the name of different companies with a

 
 view to mask a fraud rather than show the true face of the corporation. Mr. Pratap, states that this fraud cannot just be merely alleged but

 
 there has to be a connection to show that the intention of owning the

 vessel in different companies name was to mask a fraud. He further

 
 submitted that foundation for this allegation has to be first made in the
 
 plaint and there is no such averment in the plaint. First time allegation

 of fraud has been made only in the affidavit-in-reply dated 09-12-2013
 
 filed by Plaintiffs, which at para 12, provides as under :- 14 Mr. Pratap, further submitted that the arrest Order was

 obtained on the basis that all vessels were owned by Defendant No. 2,

 whereas that averment has been proved to be false by virtue of the

 amendment sought to the plaint and the reply filed to the Notice of

 Motion. He further submitted that the 1st Defendant-Vessel was bought

 by Hartati Shipping on 12-11-2008 and claims of the Plaintiffs pertains ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 8 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 
 to the period from August, 2011 to August, 2012 and, therefore, the

 Plaintiffs certainly knew and would have known while filling the suit as

 
 to who were the real registered owners of all the vessels. He submitted

 that the Plaintiffs have deliberately made false statement suppressing

 
 material facts and obtained the order of arrest on the basis of false

 averments in the plaint. He further submitted that the Plaintiffs, if it has

 
 to go against the assets/ships owned by a group of companies on the
 
 basis of beneficial ownership has to show that all the companies were

 formed to defraud the creditors while obtaining the Order of arrest. 15 In support of his submissions, Mr. Pratap, first relied upon
 

 the "Maritime Trader" (1981), Vol. 2, LLR 153. In that case the arrest of
 

 the vessel, Maritime Trader was held to be wrongful on the basis that

 the only vessels which might be arrested in respect of a maritime claim

 were the particular ship in respect of which the claim arose and any

 other ship in the same ownership. In that case arrest was sought of a

 ship beneficially owned by demise charterers and the Court held that it

 was not a sister ship of the ship they had chartered. The facts in that

 case were that MTS were the owners of the vessel Maritime Trader. All

 the shares in MTS were owned by another company MTO. The

 Plaintiffs in that case had given on charter their vessel to MTO. A number of claims of the Plaintiffs arose out of the charter and the ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 9 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 Plaintiffs issued a writ against the vessel Maritime Trader on the

 
 contention that the Maritime Trader was beneficially owned in respect

 of all the shares therein by MTO. The Court held as under:- 10 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 could have found out that Maritime Trader was not a part
 of those assets. The Court in all cases can and in some cases should
 look behind the registered owner to determine the true
 beneficial ownership. I do not dissent from that view. In

 
 that case there was much to be investigated in order to
 see whether each change of ownership was genuine or a
 sham. Circumstances may justify the lifting of the
 corporate veil or more than one veil, if that is necessary,

 
 to reveal the truth. But I also agree with Mr. Justice Slynn
 that the onus is upon the plaintiffs to show that the
 person against whom it is sought to invoke the Admiralty
 jurisdiction by arresting his ship is the person who
 beneficially owns all the shares in that ship and that he is

 
 the person who is liable in an action in personam. The evidence upon which I have to decide that matter
 does not raise even a prima facie case that the ship
 Maritime Trader was purchased by MTS in 1976 in order
 
 that it would not be available as security for a judgment
 against MTO. If, of course, the parent company, MTO, is
 unable to pay its debts and is wound up, one of the
 assets of the company will be its shareholding in MTS.
 The value of those shares must depend upon the assets
 

 and liabilities of MTS, about which I have no evidence. Mr. Saville asked the rhetorical question, "What is
 wrong with using the company structure to limit liability?" 11 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 In this case that is not even the Plaintiffs stand as could be

 
 seen in the plaint as originally filed and even after amendment. 17 Mr. Pratap also relied upon the "Evpo Agnic" (1988), Vol. 2,

 LLR 411. He relied on the said judgment to buttress his submission

 
 that the Plaintiffs have to show evidence that the owners of all the

 vessels to whom supplies have been made throughout are the same. In other words the ships should be in the same ownership and that the
 
 Plaintiffs did not have the right to arrest a ship which was a ship of a

 sister company of the owners of the ship against whom the Plaintiffs
 
 had a claim. 18 Mr. Pratap also relied upon the MAWAN (1988), Vol. 2, LLR
 

 459 to submit that for a claim against the vessel the person who will be
 

 liable to the Plaintiff in personam was the registered owner and if the

 action is brought against another vessel the Plaintiff has to show that

 the company who was liable in personam also owned the shares in the

 vessel against which the interim action is commenced. In that case,

 Defendant-Vessel Stanley Bay became a total loss while she was

 carrying the Plaintiffs' cargo. The Plaintiffs sought to recover that loss

 from a sister ship of Stanley Bay, MAWAN. After writ was issued but

 before she was arrested, MAWAN was sold. The new owners of

 MAWAN which was renamed as MARA had applied for setting aside ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 12 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 the writ of summons and warrant of arrest and return of security. While

 
 setting aside the Order of arrest, the Court gave its reasons as under:- 13 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 sister ships despite the efforts of the owners to conceal
 that fact. That approach involves not merely lifting a corporate
 veil but also sweeping aside all the corporate structure. In
 1952 when the Convention Relating to the Arrest of

 
 Seagoing Ships was signed at Brussels the High
 Contracting Parties agreed that a claimant may arrest
 either the particular ship in respect of which the maritime
 claim arose, or any other ship which is owned by the

 
 person who was, at the time when the maritime claim
 arose, the owner of the particular ship. At the time when
 that agreement was reached, limited liability companies
 were well known. It must have been in the minds of all the
 parties to that agreement that ship owners would seek to

 
 reduce the possibility of the arrest of "their" ships by
 incorporating "one ship companies". They have done so." 19 Mr. Pratap submits that, therefore, the vessels are not sister

 ships and at best could be termed as owned by sister companies and

 Plaintiffs will have to make a case for lifting of corporate veil in which
 

 they have failed. 20 In contrast, Mr. Vishal Sheth, Counsel for the Plaintiffs

 submitted, (a) that owner of the ship referred to Article 3 (2) (a) cannot

 be restricted to only the registered owner but be extended to beneficial

 owners as well. He submitted that the owner of the ship in the 1999

 arrest convention does not mean only registered owner but would

 include beneficial owner as well and for that purpose corporate veil

 could be pierced; and (b) for piercing corporate veil there is no need to

 allege or prove fraud. 14 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 
 21 In support of his second submission that fraud need not be

 alleged or proved, he first relied upon the judgment of Supreme Court

 
 of India in the matter of Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Escorts

 Limited and others reported in A.I.R. 1986, Supreme Court 1370 where

 
 in para 90, the Apex Court said:- 22 He later relied upon the unreported judgment of the Division

 Bench of this Court in the matter of Lufeng Shipping Company Limited

 v. M.V. Rainbow Ace and Anr. (Appeal (L) No. 228 of 2013 in Admiralty

 Suit No. 29 of 2013). The Counsel submitted that the said matter also

 was regarding arrest of a ship by piercing the corporate veil where the

 beneficial owner of the vessel sought to be arrested was also beneficial

 owner of Respondent company. He relied on para 13 which reads as

 under :- 23 According to Mr. Sheth in every case, therefore where there

 is a common holding company, the claim against one subsidiary of that
 

 holding company can be enforced against the asset of another
 

 subsidiary company or the holding company. He submitted that if it is

 true that two independent companies are both 100% subsidiaries of a

 common holding company then it means that beneficial owner of the

 companies is the common holding company and hence no fraud need

 to be even alleged later or proved and the Court can order the arrest of

 the vessel belonging to a subsidiary company for a claim against the

 vessel owned by another company. 24 I disagree with Mr. Sheth. The Division Bench has not held

 what Mr. Sheth is suggesting. An odd observation of the Court when ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 16 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 such issue was not raised or decided does not become a binding

 
 precedent. In the matter of State of Orissa and Ors. vs. M.D. Illiyas (2006) 1 SCC 275, the Apex Court held as under :- 25 He also relied upon the matter reported in A.I.R. 1988

 Supreme Court 1737 - State of U.P. and others v. Renusagar Power

 Co. and others , in support of his contention that the frontiers for lifting

 the corporate veil is unlimited and the Plaintiff need not allege any

 fraud. 17 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 
 26 He also relied upon another judgment reported in 2005 ( 2)

 Mh. LJ 700 - Lok Housing and Constructions Ltd. and Anr. vs Everest

 
 Industries Ltd. and anr. This judgment is absolutely irrelevant to matter

 in hand as that matter related to rejection of plaint under Order 7, Rule 11. of the C.P.C ., 1908

 
 27 The Plaintiffs's Counsel's reliance on the matter of LIC
 
 v. Escorts to suggest there is no need to plead fraud is misplaced. That
 
 case related to lifting of corporate veil under the scheme framed under

 the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 to determine who the

 shareholders are. The Apex Court while disposing of the appeal
 

 observed that the lifting of corporate veil was necessary to discover the
 

 nationality and origin of the shareholders because under the scheme

 for investment in shares of Indian companies for non-residence

 companies itself provided for lifting of the corporate veil. The facts in

 that case were totally different and had no similarity even remotely to

 the case in hand. That judgment is not at all applicable to the present

 case. 28 Even the judgment in Rainbow Ace is of no assistance to

 Mr. Sheth. Paras 9, 10 and 11 in the judgment of the Division Bench of ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 18 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 this Court in the matter of Rainbow Ace reads as under :- 2001 (2000) 1 CALLT 367 (H.C.). 19 NMS - 1080 - 2013 11) We find that the submission of the appellant on
 the above basis is not sustainable as in none of the cases

 
 did the court permit the lifting of the corporate veil to
 make the shareholder of a corporate entity the owner of a
 property belonging to the incorporated company. In the

 
 case of M.V. Elisabeth (supra) the issue which arose for
 consideration was the question of jurisdiction viz. whether
 Andhra Pradesh High Court had jurisdiction in its
 admiralty jurisdiction to proceed against a foreign ship

 
 owned by a foreign company not having a place of
 business in India. The arrested vessel viz. M.V. Elizabeth
 was the vessel against which a maritime claim had arisen
 and no issue of lifting the corporate veil arose. In the
 course of Judgment the Apex Court had observed in Para

 
 46 thereof that the jurisdiction can be invoked against a
 sister ship i.e. a ship in the same beneficial ownership. In
 
 the present case the arrest is being sought not of a sister
 ship i.e. a ship in the ownership of the same person but a
 ship/vessel owned by a sister company of the company
 
 against which maritime claim arose. In Liverpool and
 London S.P & I Association Ltd. v. Sea Success (supra)
 the issue for consideration was whether the non payment
 of insurance premium gave rise to a maritime claim. The
 premium was not paid in respect of vessels Sea Ranger
 

 and Sea Glory. The vessels Sea Ranger, Sea Glory and
 Sea Success were owned by the same owner. The vessel
 

 arrested was Sea Success. No issue of lifting the
 corporate veil for the purpose of arresting Sea Success
 arose. In the case of M.V. Dong Do (supra) Calcutta High
 Court held that under the Indian Law, shareholders of a

 company are not the owners of the assets of the
 corporate entity. The Court set aside the arrest of the
 vessel even though it was alleged that both the vessels
 were ultimately owned by the companies. The Calcutta
 High Court negatived the aspect of beneficial ownership
 as extending to shareholders of an incorporated entity

 and as an illustration pointed out that in India various
 Government Companies are in existence who are
 independent of each other having a distinct identity.
 Therefore a ship belonging to Shipping Corporation of
 India cannot be said to be a sister ship of a ship
 belonging to Oil & Natural Gas Commission to enable the
 arrest of ship owned by one company for the maritime
 claim arising in respect of another company."(emphasis
 supplied) ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 20 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 29 I am afraid, as regards his first submission that "owner" is to

 
 be read as "beneficial owner" and not "registered owner", I cannot

 agree with the submissions of the learned Counsel for the Plaintiffs. As

 
 to how did the Plaintiffs and what is the basis on which the Plaintiffs

 obtained an order of arrest has to be seen. Arrest Convention 1999 is a

 
 legal instrument to establish international uniformity in a field of arrest

 of ships taking into account developments in related fields. Article 3 (1) relates to arrest of a ship in respect of which a maritime claim is
 
 asserted. Article 3 (2) relates to arrest of any other ship or ships other

 than ship in respect of which a maritime claim is asserted. Which "any
 
 other ship or ships can be" is clearly mentioned in Article 3 (2) (a)". Those are ship or ships which, when the arrest is effected, is or are
 

 owned by the person who is liable for the maritime claim and who was,
 

 when the maritime claim arose a owner of the ship in respect of which a

 maritime claim arose. Though the Arrest Convention has not defined

 who the "owner" is, it certainly means a "registered owner". The reason

 why it has to be meant a registered owner is because the only person

 who could held be liable for a claim against the ship, is the person who

 owns all the shares in the ship and who would be liable on the claim in

 an action in personam. The only person who can be liable for action in

 personam is the registered owner of the vessel and no one else. If the

 'owner' should be meant to be beneficial owner, the convention would

 have said 'beneficial owner'. This is because beneficial owner need not ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 21 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 mean he is the registered owner. On the contrary registered owner or

 
 the owner in whose name the ship is registered would also be the

 beneficial owner unless otherwise proved. S. 25 (b) and (c) of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 makes it very clear. It reads as under: 30 Therefore upto 10 individuals shall be entitled to be

 registered at the same time as owners but each of them may represent

 beneficial interest of many others who may hold a fractional part of a

 ship. 31 Further rules of interpretation require that a word should be

 given its normal, plain and natural meaning. An owner will naturally ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 22 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 mean a person in whose name the ship is registered. A ship is not

 
 registered in the name of the beneficial owner. A beneficial owner only

 owns the shares in the company in whose name the ship is registered. If the beneficial owner is wound up or if an individual's assets are

 attached, one of the assets of the company or the individual will be the

 
 shareholding in the company in whose name the ship is registered. The ship will not be the asset of the beneficial owner company or

 
 individual. Let us assume the situation where the Plaintiffs chose to file
 
 action in personam and not in rem. Will the action in personam be filed

 against the owning company or the beneficial owner? The answer
 
 undoubtedly is the owning company. 32 Moreover when the 1999 Arrest Convention came into effect
 

 or was signed at Geneva, limited liabilities companies were well known

 and one vessel owned companies were also well known. It must have

 been in the mind that the convention was signed with the ship owners

 to seek to reduce the possibility of arrest of "their" ships by

 "incorporating one ship companies". Therefore, the owner of the ship

 referred to in the convention has to be registered owner. This is more

 so because the convention also provides for demise charterer or

 manager or operator or time charterer or voyage charterer of a ship. Article 3 (2) of the 1999 Convention provides as under:- 33 Moreover Article 3 (3) of the 1999 Arrest Convention

 provides as under: 34 Indian law views each company incorporated under the Companies Act as a separate and legal entity from its shareholders

 and other companies and the fact that the two companies have

 common shareholders or common Board of Directors will not convert

 the two companies into a single entity [INDO WIND ENERGY LTS. Vs

 WESCARE (INDIA) LTD. 2010 (5) SCC 306]. The apex court in Bacha

 F. Guzder vs Commissioner of Income Tax AIR 1955 SC 74 held that

 shareholders do not buy any interest in the property of the company

 and an incorporated company has an identity different from that of its ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 24 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 shareholders. It is also trite that Indian law does not permit one to

 
 ignore the independent corporate identity of a limited company and to

 lift the corporate veil to identify the shareholder as owner of the

 
 property of the limited company in the absence of fraud. 35 This is the legal position in many countries. It is for that

 reason when it comes to arrest of ships in India, Article 3 (3) of the

 
 1999 convention must be read to provide that arrest of a ship which is
 
 not owned by the person liable for the claim shall be permissible, which

 means arrest of a ship in common beneficial ownership is permissible,
 
 if Indian Law would permit. 36 Indian law says shareholders are not the owners of the
 

 assets of the company. Therefore, to arrest a ship which is not owned

 by the person liable for the claim, which means arrest of a ship under

 common beneficial ownership, is not permissible unless fraud is

 established. 37 Here is a case where Plaintiffs have obtained an order of

 arrest of the 1st Defendant-Vessel. The order of arrest obtained is a

 very drastic step and moreover it is obtained ex-parte. An incorporated

 company has an independent identity and is different and distinct from

 that of its shareholders. The submission of the Plaintiffs that the ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 25 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 concept of beneficial owner by itself requires the lifting of corporate veil

 
 is not sustainable. None of the case relied upon by the Plaintiffs

 permitted lifting of corporate veil to make the shareholders of a

 
 corporate entity the owner of a property belonging to the corporate

 entity. None of the judgment relied upon by the Plaintiffs support the

 
 fact that the order of arrest can be obtained of a vessel which is owned

 by a different entity not by the entity that owned the vessel against

 
 which the maritime claim arose just because both the entities are
 
 owned by a common holding entity. 38 In some cases the Court could look behind the registered

 owner to determine the beneficial ownership. It could lift the veil not
 

 once but more than once but the necessary ingredient for doing so is
 

 that the independent companies are nothing but sham to defraud the

 creditors. For two or more ships to be called sister ships they have to

 be registered under the same ownership. For two ships owned by

 different entities to be called sister ships, the corporate veil has to be

 pierced. To pierce corporate veil fraud has to be established. Fraud has

 to be prima face established at the time of obtaining the order of arrest. A mere bald averment in the plaint is not enough. There has to be

 prima face evidence which would show that the intention of the owners

 to register the ships in different names was to play a fraud on the

 creditors or a sham to mask the true owners and it should be such that ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 26 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 in all likelihood this allegation will be sustained during the final hearing

 
 of the Suit. Otherwise it would set a wrong trend. As illustrated in M.V.

 Dong DO (Supra) in India various government companies are in

 
 existence who are independent of each other having a distinct identity. In foreign jurisdictions a Shipping Corporation of India ship might

 
 get arrested for a claim against ONGC by simply showing common

 ownership and baldly alleging fraud and the judgments of our Courts

 
 will be used for persuasive effect. 39 In this case, the Defendant No. 1 has admitted that all the
 
 ships listed in "Ex. E" in the plaint are owned by companies which are

 subsidiaries of a common entity. My question is what is wrong in that if
 

 somebody had business in that fashion. There is nothing wrong unless
 

 it is being done with an intention to defraud or with a view to mask the

 fraud or it is a sham. It is not even the case of the Plaintiffs in the plaint

 that BLT has created all these companies to own the individual vessel

 with a view to mask the fraud or to defraud the Plaintiffs or other

 creditors or it is a sham. It is not even alleged in the plaint as it was

 originally filed or even when it was amended. Even when the leave to

 amend the plaint was sought, there is no allegation of fraud or a sham. On the contrary, the Plaintiffs had obtained ex-parte order of arrest on

 the ground that Defendant No. 2 vessel owned the Defendant No. 1

 vessel and several other vessels. This was later amended to state that ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 ::: 27 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 Defendant No. 2 along with BLT are the owners/beneficial owners/the

 
 entity which are in various fields (including Defendant No. 1 vessel)

 formed part of their fleet. Just because BLT owns various

 
 entities/incorporated companies, and each of the entities/incorporated

 companies owned different ships does not make all the ships sister

 
 ships and does not entitle any claimant to seek arrest of a ship owned

 by particular entity for a claim against a ship owned by another entity

 
 just because both the entities are subsidiaries of a third entity. Of
 
 course, there could be an exception. The exception will be where the

 Plaintiff is able to prove that all the companies were formed and all the
 
 ships were registered in the ownership of the respective companies

 only with an intention to defraud the Plaintiffs or creditors and the
 

 registered owners of the ships are sham companies. In this case, the
 

 1st Defendant-Vessel was purchased by Hartati Shipping Private

 Limited in November, 2008 whereas the claims pertain to August, 2011

 to August, 2012. This itself shows that the 1st Defendant-Vessel was

 not registered in the name of Hartati Shipping Private Limited as a

 sham or to defraud the Plaintiffs. Moreover the admitted position is that

 the claim relating to 1st Defendant-Vessel has been paid off by Hartati

 Shipping Private Limited. 40 In the circumstances, the order of arrest or retention of

 security furnished for release of Defendant No. 1 cannot be sustained. 28 NMS - 1080 - 2013

 Notice of Motion is allowed in terms of prayer clause - (a). 41 The Prothonotary and Senior Master, High Court, Bombay

 
 is directed to forthwith recall/foreclose the fixed deposit and return the

 amount of Rs. 24,75,000/- furnished on behalf of Defendant No. 1

 
 together with interest accumulated thereon to Hartati Shipping Private

 Limited. The Defendant No. 1 in my opinion is also justified in

 claiming cost and is entitled to cost. The Plaintiffs are directed to pay a
 
 sum of Rs. 1,00,000/- as cost to the Advocates for Defendant No. 1. 43 The Counsel for the Plaintiffs seeks stay of the judgment. The Judgment is stayed for a period of 1 week from today. (K.R.SHRIRAM,J) ::: Downloaded on - 13/02/2014 23:14:29 :::