The petitioner is the defendant in the suit filed by the respondent in
O.S. No. 278 of 2002. Pending that suit, the petitioner herein has filed
I.A. No. 546 of 2002 under Order VII Rule 11 CPC to reject the suit filed by
the respondent. The said I.A. No. 546 of 2002 was dismissed by the court
below, hence this revision. 2. The respondent herein has filed O.S. No. 278 of 2002 before
the Subordinate Judge, Erode for a declaration to declare the decree of
divorce passed by the Sheriffdom of South Stratheclyde Dumfries and Galloway
at Dumfries Court, Scotland in F. 164/01 for divorce seeking to dissolve the
marriage between the respondent and the petitioner as ultra vires,
unsustainable, illegal, unenforceable and without jurisdiction; and for a
consequential injunction restraining the petitioner herein from enforcing the
said decree or claim any rights under the said decree either by seeking to
take a second wife or otherwise. 3. The case of the respondent as contained in the plaint is as
follows:- 4. According to the petitioner, the respondent herein is a
British national by birth and is certainly bound by the decree passed by the
Court within the territorial jurisdiction of Britain; that he was domiciled in
U.K. for the past eight years and was accorded the permanent resident status
since 1998; that the respondent herein had abundant opportunity to raise the
question of jurisdiction before the Court at Dumfries, since Form 15 and 26
were personally served on her to challenge the jurisdiction and she was
explained about her entitlement to have legal aid and having ignored the same,
the respondent has filed the vexatious suit, which suffers from lack of
jurisdiction and prayed to reject the plaint filed by the respondent herein
but erroneously dismissed the application, hence the present revision
petition. 5. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the court
below erred in holding that the provisions of Order VII Rule 11 will not be
attracted to the facts of the case; that when the cause of action alleged is
neither complete nor in accordance with law, it is not necessary for the
defendant to be called upon to enter into the defence and to undergo the
trial; that the learned Judge failed to see that the validity of a decree has
to be decided with reference to the Law prevalent in the country in which the
judgment was passed as per the principles of International Law; if the
respondent wanted to raise the question of jurisdiction, it was open to her to
raise the same; that Sec. 21 (A) of CPC bars the suit filed by the respondent
and it will clearly bring the matter under Order VII Rule 11 CPC which was
lost sight of by the Court below and prayed for setting aside the order
impugned in this revision petition. 6. The learned counsel for the petitioner relied on the following
decisions in support of his case. 15. The High Court considered that for the determination of the question of
domicile of a person at a particular time, the course of his conduct and the
facts and circumstances before and after that time are relevant. We consider
that the view taken by the High Court on this point is correct and for
considering the domicile of Narain Raja on the date of coming into force of
the Constitution of India his conduct and facts and circumstances subsequent
to the time should also be taken into account. This view is borne out by the
decision of the Chancery Court in In re Grove Vaucher v. Solicitor of the
Treasury, (1888) 40 Ch D 216, in which the domicile of one Marc Thomegay in
1744 was at issue and various facts and circumstances after 1744 were
considered to be relevant.... 18. Taking all the events and circumstances of Narain Rajas life into
account we are satisfied that long before the end of 1949 which is the
material time under Article 5 of the Constitution, Narain Raja had acquired a
domicile of choice in India. In other words, Narain Raja had formed the
deliberate intention of making India his home with the intention of
permanently establishing himself and his family in India. In our opinion, the
requisite animus manendi has been proved and the finding of the High Court is
correct. 21. For the reasons expressed, we hold that Narain Raja had acquired domicile
of choice in India when Article 5 of the Constitution came into force. We
have already referred to the finding of the High Court that Narain Raja was
ordinarily resident in India for 5 years immediately preceding the time when Article 5 of the Constitution came into force. It is manifest that the
requirements of Article 5(c) of the Constitution are satisfied in this case
and the High Court rightly reached the conclusion that Narain Raja was a
citizen of India at the relevant time. ii) ( P. Ramesh Kumar v. Secretary, Kannapuram Grama Panchayat
and another ) AIR 1998 Kerala 95 wherein in para-5 it was held thus:- iii) ( Y. Narasimha Rao and others Vs. Y. Venkatalakshmi and
another ) 1991 Supreme Court Cases (Cri) 626 wherein in para-21 it was held
thus:- v) ( State of Bombay vs. Bhanji Munji and another ) AIR 1955 SC 41
wherein it was held thus:- vi) ( M.K. Sivagaminatha Pillai vs. K. Nataraja Pillai and
others ) AIR 1961 Madras 385 wherein a Division Bench of this Court held in
thus:- In our view this authority lays down the correct law. 9. The petitioner herein has filed the interim application to
reject the plaint invoking Rule 11 of Order VII CPC . If, on a meaningful
reading of the plaint, if it is manifestly vexatious, meritless in the sense
not disclosing a clear right to sue, for want of jurisdiction, the plaint is
liable to be rejected under Order VII Rule 11 CPC . 10. Mr. Swaminathan, learned counsel for the petitioner canvassed
that the respondent herein has deliberately failed to mention her Nationality
in the plaint and in the absence of jurisdictional fact namely the
Nationality, the Courts in India, particularly at Erode will not have
jurisdiction to entertain the suit. It is further submitted by the learned
counsel for the petitioner that the respondent is a British domicile and she
is certainly bound by the decree passed within the territorial jurisdiction of
Britain; that the petitioner has domiciled in U.K. for the past eight years
and has been accorded permanent residential status since 1998; that the
petitioner is intending to continue his residence in U.K. and it was also
known to the respondent herein; that the plaint has been served on the
respondent by the foreign Court and despite opportunity granted by the foreign
court, the respondent has not challenged the proceedings initiated by him,
hence it became final. 11. The Apex Court while dealing with a question where foreign
judgment res judicata, how domicile be determined held in ( Sankaran Govindan
vs. Lakshmi Bharathi and others ) AIR 1974 Supreme Court 1764 wherein in
paragraph Nos. 16, 20, 22, 23, 24, 30, 36, 40, 41 and 46 thus:- 12. In the decision reported in ( Smt. Satya Vs. Teja Singh ) AIR
1975 Supreme Court 105, the Honourable Supreme Court relating to issues that
whether Indian Courts bound to give recognition to divorce decree of foreign
courts, what are tests required to determine domicie and residence and whether
the validity of a foreign judgment can be decided in India on the terms of Section 13 C.P.C. has held in Para Nos. 8 , 9, 45, 46, 49, 50, 52 and 53
thus:- In the above judgment, the Honourable Supreme Court, while dealing
with Private International Law, domicile and foreign judgment noted that the
foreign judgment must have been pronounced by a Court of competent
jurisdiction. It is that court which the Law under which the parties are
married recognised as a Court competent to entertain matrimonial disputes or
the Court to which both the parties submit voluntarily. The foreign judgment
must be given on merits on grounds available in Law under which the parties
are married and arrived at after contest or consent between them. The foreign
judgment must not be based on the refusal to recognise the Law of this
Country. The proceedings in foreign Court must comply with the principles of
natural justice. For this purpose, the foreign Court must ascertain that the
defendant can present or represent before the Court. To that end, the
plaintiff must have made necessary provisions for the respondent's cost and
travel, residence and litigation, if the foreign judgment is not obtained by
fraud It is also further held by the Honourable Supreme Court that a foreign
decree of divorce obtained by husband in absentum of the wife without her
submitting to its jurisdiction was not valid and binding when it was found
from facts on record the decree of divorce was obtained by fraud or by making
false representation as to its jurisdictional fact. 13. Section 13 of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 grants relief to all
the Hindus. Divorce can be granted under this Act only when one of the
grounds laid down in Section 13 exist. 14. In a matrimonial case, jurisdiction of the Court depends upon
the domicile, the place of solemnisation of marriage and residence and if
there is difficulty regarding this, the place where the cause of action arise.
Where the provisions as to jurisdiction specifically contain in a statute is
impossible of satisfaction, the provisions of Section 20 of Civil Procedure
Code, 1908 would be sufficient to create jurisdiction in the ordinary civil
courts at a place where either the defendant resides or the cause of action
can be said to arise. 15. To constitute domicile, two factors are essential i.e., (i)
residence and (ii) intention to make a home. Domicile shall be classified
into three categories i.e., (i) domicile by birth or origin (ii) by choice and (iii) by operation of law. The domicile of choice is acquired by combination
of fact and intention. A man acquires a new domicile by taking up residence
in a Country, which is not that of his domicile or origin and it is so with
the intention that his residence should be permanent. To establish a change
from domicile of origin to one of choice, cogent evidence is necessary and
mere expression of intention is not sufficient. Hence, in the case on hand,
the dispute regarding domicile can be decided only in the extensive trial of
the suit. 16. The validity of foreign judgment rendered in civil proceedings
must be determined in India on the terms of Section 13 CPC. Section 1 3 are
the Rules of substantive Law and not merely of procedure. Followed ( Raj
Rajendra Sardar Maloji Nar Singh Rao Shitole vs. Shankar Saran and others )
AIR 1962 Supreme Court Page NO.1737. 17. Validity of a foreign judgment in a civil proceedings is
governed in India by Section 13 of Civil Procedure Code. In the decision
rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Y. Narasimha Rao and others vs. Y.
Venkatalakshmi and another 1991 Supreme Court Cases (Crl) 626, the Hon'ble
Supreme Court interpreted Section 13 CPC in confirmity with public policy,
justice, equity and good conscience with a view to protect sanctity of
marriage of the Hindu family. 18. If the foreign judgment fall under any of the clauses of Section 13 CPC, it will cease to be conclusive as to any matter thereby
adjudicated upon and will be open to collateral attack on the grounds
mentioned in Section 13 . Indeed, in the suit filed by the respondent herein,
the foreign judgment granted in favour of the petitioner is challenged on the
ground that it is an exparte decree, the Court which passed the decree has no
jurisdiction and the decree was passed when the respondent was in India.
Hence the forcing judgment obtained by the petitioner is open to challenge
under Section 13 C.P.C. 19. An application for rejection of plaint under Order VII Rule 11
CPC can be decided by the Court on the basis of averments made in the plaint
and filing of written statement by the contesting defendant is not necessary.
Followed ( Saleem Bhai and others vs. State of Maharashtra ) AIR 2003 Supreme 
Court Page NO.759. 20. Under Order VII Rule 11 CPC , the plaint shall be rejected in
the cases mentioned in sub-clauses (a) to (f) therein. It is to be remembered
that the said conditions are not exhaustive. On a meaningful, not formal
reading of the plaint, if it is manifestly vexatious and meritless, in the
sense of not disclosing a clear right to sue, then the trial court should
exercise its power u nder this provision. It should take care to see that the
grounds mentioned therein are fulfilled. Followed ( T. Arivandandam vs. V.
Satyapal and another ) AIR 1977 Supreme Court 2421. In the said decision , it
is further held by the Honourable Supreme Court that the counsel, as officer
of justice can also contribute to the cause of justice by not screening wholly
fraudulent and frivolous litigation and by not colloborating in shady actions. 21. In the absence of the conditions mentioned in Rule 11 of Order
VII CPC or any other valid grounds, the application filed under this Rule is
liable to be dismissed. 22. For the reasons mentioned above, this Court confirms the order
of dismissal passed by the court below. The revision is dismissed. No costs.
The trial court is directed to dispose of the suit on merits and in accordance
with law, uninfluenced by any of the findings made in this order.
Consequently, connected CMP is closed. rsh

Index : Yes
Website : Yes 

To
The Ist Additional Subordinate Judge
Sub-Court 

