This is the third application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of
 the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 for grant of regular bail relating to Crime
 No.837/2022 registered at Police Station Rajendra Nagar, District Indore (M.P.)
 for the offence under Sections 306 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The
 applicant is in custody since 01/11/2022. 2. As per prosecution story, on 10.09.2022 one Vilas committed suicide
 upon which the concerned police station registered merg and during the
 investigation the brother-in-law of the deceased gave statements that co-accused Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 07-03-2024 15:44:14 2 Kusum Thakur, who used to blackmail the deceased with regard to his nude
 video that she will circulate it on social media. In furtherance of such threat he
 committed suicide. Upon such incident the offence under Section 306 of IPC
 was registered and upon investigation, it is found that in the mobile of deceased
 some unknown numbers were traced and they were found to be located at
 Bharatpur (Rajasthan), which were related to the present applicant. Accordingly,
 offence has been registered. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is an
 innocent person and he has been falsely implicated in this offence. He is in
 custody since 01/11/2022. Co-accused Yasib has been enlarged on bail by the

 order of Hon'ble apex Court. Only two prosecution witnesses have been
 examined before the trial Court and both of them have turned hostile. Applicant
 is permanent resident of Indore district and final conclusion of the trial is likely
 to take sufficient long time. Hence, he prays that in view of the material change
 in the circumstances, prayer for grant of bail may be considered on such terms
 and conditions, as this Court deems fit and proper. 4. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent / State opposes the bail
 application and prays for its rejection by submitting that applicant's earlier two
 bail applications have been dismissed on merit and thereafter, there is no change
 circumstances in which the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 5. Perused the impugned order of the trial Court as well as the case diary. 6. After considering all the facts and circumstances of the case, nature
 and gravity of offence, arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the
 applicant and also taking note of the fact that applicant's earlier two bail
 applications have been dismissed after considering all the facts and
 circumstances of the case and evidence available on record against him. After Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 07-03-2024 15:44:14 3 rejecting the earlier applications, there is no material change in the circumstances
 in which the applicant may be entitled for bail. 7. Accordingly, the third bail application filed under Section439 of
 Cr.P.C. is hereby dismissed. Certified copy as per rules. (ANIL VERMA)
 JUDGE
 Tej Signature Not Verified Signed by: TEJPRAKASH VYAS Signing time: 07-03-2024 15:44:14