NARAYAN DIWAKAR
 S/O LATE SH.CHHATHI LAL
 R/O­G­30, MASJID MOTH, NEW DELHI­38 2. SITA RAM GOYAL
 S/O SH.RAMDHARI GOYAL
 R/O­56­A, SURAJ NAGAR, AZADPUR
 DELHI­33 3. RAJ BHUSHAN CHAUHAN
 S/O SH.KESAR SINGH CHAUHAN
 R/O­H.No.8, PANCH MAHAL APARTMENT
 PLOT NO.47, PATPARGANJ
 DELHI­92 CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.1 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors. 4. RAM NATH 
 S/O SH.BISHAN LAL
 R/O­192, GALI NO.9
 WEST GURU ANGAD NAGAR
 LAXMI NAGAR
 DELHI­92 5. DEEN BANDHU PRASAD
 S/O LATE SH.DHODHA PRASAD
 R/O­A­45, SITA PURI, PART­II
 GALI NO.3 (NEAR DABRI VILLAGE)
 NEW DELHI 6. ASHUTOSH PANT
 S/O SH.MAHESH CHAND PANT
 R/O­B­160, GALI NO.2, SADAT PUR COLONY
 DELHI­94 7. P K THIRWANI
 S/O LATE SH.MOTI RAM THIRWANI
 R/O­348E, POCKET­2, MAYUR VIHAR
 DELHI­91
 ... ACCUSED CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.2 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors. 1. Accused Narayan Diwakar (A­1); Sita Ram Goyal (A­2); Raj 

Bhushan Chauhan (A­3); Ram Nath (A­4); Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5); 

Ashutosh pant (A­6) and P K Thirwani (A­7) have been charge sheeted 

by CBI to face trial for offences punishable u/s 120B r/w Sec.

420 / 468 / 471 IPC, Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act , besides 

substantive offences u/s 420/511/468/471 and Section 15 r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act . 2. Arguments on charge as advanced by ld.Public Prosecutor 

and accused persons/their ld.counsels have been heard and written 

arguments as filed by accused/Narayan Niwakar (A­1) and Sita Ram CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.3 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors. Goyal (A­2) have also been perused. 3. The case of the prosecution is that pursuant to the order of 

Hon'ble High Court dated 02.08.05 in WP(C) No.10066/04 directing CBI 

to conduct thorough investigation in the whole matter relating to 135 Co­

operative Group Housing Societies (in short CGHS), a preliminary 

enquiry was registered against few societies including Birla Udyog 

Emp.CGHS Ltd. (hereinafter referred as society) and enquiry was taken 

up. The enquiry was converted into a regular case and instant RC was 

registered with the allegations that the Birla Udyog CGHS was registered 

with registration no.47 (GH) on 09.06.1971 with the Registrar of Co­

operative Societies (hereinafter referred as RCS) which was brought in 

liquidation on 29.09.86. During investigation, it was revealed that the 

said society was registered with 17 promoter members with the address 

of the society as Opposite Swadeshi Store, Birla Mill, Subzi Mandi, CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.4 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors. Delhi. It was lying defunct since long. 4. Investigation revealed that during the year 2003­04, accused 

Narayan Diwakar (A­1) then RCS, Delhi; Sita Ram Goyal (A­2) then 

Assistant Registrar (AR) (West) in the office of RCS, Delhi; Raj Bhushan 

Chauhan (A­3) then Dealing Assistant West Zone; Ram Nath (A­4) then 

Inspector, Grade­II, Co­ordination Branch of RCS; Deen Bandhu Prasad 

(A­5) then LDC, Grade­IV; and P K Thirwani (A­7) then Sr.Auditor RCS, 

Delhi, all being public servants entered into a criminal conspiracy with 

Ashutosh Pant (A­6), who is a private person, with a common object to 

cheat Delhi Development Authority (in short DDA) for allotment of land in 

the name of the said society, on the basis of false list of 119 members 

forwarded to DDA by RCS for allotment of the land. 5. Pursuant to the said criminal conspiracy, accused/Ashutosh CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.5 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Pant (A­6) illegally started to control the affairs of the defunct society to 

facilitate its revival and forged records were prepared by him which were 

accepted by accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1), who was then RCS, for 

passing the order for revival of the society. 6. Pursuant to the criminal conspiracy, accused/Aashutosh Pant 

(A­6) had changed the office address of the society as WZ­3352, 

Mahendra Park, Rani Bagh, Delhi­34 in the minutes of the Special 

General Body meeting dated 10.09.79, which was prepared by him. He 

also submitted an application dated 07.07.03 in the assumed name of 

one Sh.Jagroop Sharma purported to be the President of the society for 

cancellation of winding up order dated 29.09.86 in the West Zone office 

of RCS, Delhi. The said letter was accepted by Sh.Yogi Raj, then AR 

(West) and was diarized by accused/R B Chauhan (A­3), then dealing 

assistant, on 17.07.03. The said application dated 07.07.03 was CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.6 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . processed on 18.11.03 by accused R B Chauhan (A­3), then dealing 

assistant and accused/Sita Ram Goyal (A­2) without verifying the fact 

that the society was lying dormant for more than 17 years. Accused/R B 

Chauhan (A­3), then dealing assistant in furtherance of the criminal 

conspiracy had dishonestly put up a proposal stating that the main file of 

the society was not traceable and proposed to issue a circular to carry 

out inspection u/s 54 of DCS Act, 1972 to verify the present 

status/factual position of the society. The said proposal was dishonestly 

recommended by accused Sita Ram Goyal (A­2), who was AR (West) 

and was approved by accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) who was then 

RCS. Accordingly, a circular was issued by accused/Sita Ram Goyal 

(A­2) ion 28.11.03 to trace out the main file of the society and to carry out 

the inspection of the office address of the society. 7. Investigation also revealed that pursuant to the aforesaid CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.7 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . criminal conspiracy, accused/Sita Ram Goyal (A­2) had deputed 

accused Ram Nath (A­4), vide order dated 28.11.03, to conduct the 

inspection of the society and verify the records and submit his report 

within 15 days and accused Ram Nath (A­4) had submitted a false report 

on 12.12.03 containing the fact that he had visited the office address of 

society at WZ­3352, Mahindra Park, Rani Bagh, Delhi­34 and met 

Sh.Jagroop Sharma, President of the society, who had produced the 

records of the society, membership register was compelte in all respects, 

the society had shifted from Opposite Swadeshi Store, Birla Mill, Subzi 

Mandi, Delhi to WZ­3352, Mahindra Park, Rani Bagh, Delhi­34 vide 

management committee resolution passed on 23.05.79 and 

subsequently approved by special General Body meeting held on 

10.09.79 and lastly that all the records were found under the safe 

custody of Sh.Jagroop Sharma, President of the society. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.8 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 8. Investigation disclosed that the society never functioned at 

WZ­3352, Mahindra Park, Rani Bagh, Delhi­34 and M.C. Resolution and 

Special General Body Meeting proceedings have been forged by 

accused/Aashutosh Pant (A­6). 9. Investigation has then disclosed that pursuant to the criminal 

conspiracy, accused/Sita Ram Goyal (A­2) issued circular dated 28.11.03 

to trace out the main file of the society to different Zones and without 

waiting for the reply from the concerned Zones, he issued a letter dated 

09.12.03 addressed to the President/Secretary of the society at 

WZ­3352, Mahindra Park, Rani Bagh, Delhi­34 in connivance with 

accused/R B Chauhan (A­3) and the said letter was delivered to 

accused/Aashutosh Pant (A­6) by accused/R B Chauhan (A­3), on 

09.12.03 without obtaining the full particulars of the recipient of the letter. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.9 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 10. Pursuant to this criminal conspiracy, accused/R B Chauhan 

(A­3), then dealing assistant, dishonestly put up another note on 

15/16.12.04 based on the false inspection report of accused Ram Nath 

(A­4) and proposed for initiation of quasi judicial proceedings u/s 63 of 

DCS Act, 1972. the said proposal was forwarded by accused/S R Goyal 

(A­2) to accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1), then RCS, Delhi, on 16.12.03. 

Accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) dishonestly approved the said 

recommendation to issue a notice to the President/Secretary of the 

society for initial hearing on 23.12.03. Thereafter on 16.12.03, Reader of 

RCS issued a letter addressed to the President/Secretary of the society 

to appear before RCS on 23.12.03 and the said letter was given by him 

to accused/Ashutosh Pant (A­6) by hand. In the order sheet dated 

23.12.03, accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) has dishonestly and falsely 

shown the presence of Sh.Jagroop Sharma, so called President of the 

society and ordered for verification of records pertaining to membership, CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.10 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . audit, election and to conduct spot verification of the members and 

thereafter file was sent to AR(West). Accused/Ram Nath (A­4) was 

deputed by accused/S R Goyal (A­2), vide order dated 31.12.03 to 

conduct physical verification of members at random and submit his 

report within 3 days. In compliance of the said order, accused/Ram Nath 

(A­4) dishonestly submitted a false report on 05.01.04 mentioning that he 

visited the residence of members, namely, S/Sh.Jagroop Sharma (M No. 75); Golesta Joseph (M No.90); R Viren Trikey (M No.102); Serverensiya 

Hembrom (M No.116) and Jit Ram (M No.119). 11. During the investigation, it was disclosed that S/Sh.Jagroop 

Sharma and Jit Ram were found non existent and Smt.Golesta Joseth; 

Sh.R Viren Trikey and Smt.Serverensiya Hembrom have denied being 

member of the society or being verified by any RCS official. Accused/S 

R Goyal (A­2) and R B Chauhan (A­3) prepared a false report regarding CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.11 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . verification of documents and dishonestly submitted on 06.01.04 and 

07.01.04 mentioning that the original records of the society have been 

verified list of 42 members who resigned prior to 30.06.86, list of 144 

members enrolled before 30.06.86, application form, share money 

received and resolutions of MCS of newly enrolled members, fresh 

affidavits of 119 members of the society, have all been verified. 

Investigation revealed that signatures of Ch.Lal Singh, 

Treasurer/Executive Member, were forged by accused/Aashutosh Pant 

(A­6) on election proceedings, special general body meeting, application 

forms for the membership, affidavits etc which have been confirmed in 

GEQD opinion. 12. In pursuance to the above criminal conspiracy, accused/S R 

Goyal (A­2) and R B Chauhan (A­3) dishonestly recommended to 

RCS/accused­Narayan Diwakar (A­1) to consider revival of society u/s CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.12 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 63 of DCS Act, 1972 , approval of freeze list of 119 members for allotment 

of land. Thereupon, accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) being RCS, Delhi, 

on 08.01.04 made an order, wherein he had falsely shown presence of 

one Sh.M C Pant, Secretary of the society. During investigation Sh.M C 

Pant has denied as ever being member or having attended any 

proceedings of the society. Further, on 22.01.04, accused/Narayan 

Diwakar (A­1) made an order in the order sheet, wherein he has falsely 

shown presence of Sh.Jagroop Sharma, President of the society, a non 

existent person. Accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) dishonestly cancelled 

the winding up order of the society and in furtherance of criminal 

conspiracy, he revived the society by order dated 29.01.04 subject to the 

condition that audit shall be got completed within two months time and 

appointed accused/Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5) as Election Officer. 13. Investigation revealed that pursuance to the criminal CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.13 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . conspiracy, accused/S R Goyal (A­2) had forwarded the list of 119 

members to AR (Policy) on 30.01.04 in contravention of the conditions 

stipulated in the revival order and AR (Policy) forwarded the list of 35 

societies including the instant society to DDA for allotment of land and in 

the said list, the instant society was shown as functional as per the 

records of the department. 14. During investigation, it was found that pursuant to the 

criminal conspiracy, accused/Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5), then LDC, 

Grade­IV had falsely prepared a election report of the society showing 

presence of 29 members in the election of M C Meeting held on 

29.09.04. It was found that said election report was in fact prepared by 

accused/Aashutosh Pant (A­6), who also forged signatures of Ch.Lal 

Singh and Sh.S M Mehdi, as confirmed by GEQD. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.14 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 15. Investigation has also revealed that pursuant to the criminal 

conspiracy, accused/P K Thirwanni (A­7) then Sr.Auditor in the RCS 

Office had prepared a false audit report on 03.02.04 showing that an 

amount of Rs.10,000/­ as on 31.03.03 was available in the account of the 

society at DSC Bank, Darya Ganj, Delhi, whereas the account of the 

society was already closed in the year 1990 hence there was no 

question of showing a balance of Rs.10,000/­ in its account on 31.03.03. 16. It is alleged that he did not conduct the audit of the society at 

its registered office by violating the provisions of Rule 84(5) of DCS Rule 

1973 and he in criminal conspiracy with accused/Aashutosh Pant (A­6) 

dishonestly omitted to obtain the signature of three office bearers i.e 

S/Sh.Jagroop Sharma, President; Mahesh Chander, Secretary and Lal 

Singh, Treasurer and written their names to give credence to their 

signatures and thus he dishonestly abused his official position as public CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.15 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . servant by corrupt and illegal means with the object to show that the said 

society was functional. 17. Investigation has further revealed that pursuant to the said 

criminal conspiracy, accused/Aashutosh Pant (A­6), in collusion with 

other accused persons prepared false election report by accused/Deen 

Bandhu Prasad (A­5) and forged signatures of S/Sh.Lal Singh and S M 

Mehdi, members as also signatures for S/Sh.Ashok Kumar Verma; Lal 

Singh; Nemi Chand; Ajai Kumar; Kailash Singh; P S Manchanda; Ram 

Bilas Mehto; S M Mehdi; Smt.Anandam E; Bir Singh Bisht; Baldev Singh; 

G S Bhullar; G S Khurana and G P Vajirani, on affidavits, application 

forms, special general body meetings and MC meetings, books of 

accounts, election proceedings and winding up order as confirmed by 

GEQD. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.16 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 18. During the course of arguments, sanction for prosecution of 

accused Raj Bhushan Chauhan (A­3); Ram Nath (A­4); Deen Bandhu 

Prasad (A­5) and P K Thirwani (A­7) was obtained by CBI and as per 

records accused Narayan Diwakar (A­1) and Sita Ram Goyal (A­2), it is 

mentioned that they have respectively retired on 30.04.02 and 31.10.06, 

hence sanction for prosecution was not required. 19. It has been submitted by Sh.J S Wadia, ld.Special Public 

Prosecutor for CBI that there is sufficient oral and documentary evidence 

against the accused persons that they have committed the offence under 

various sections as mentioned above. 20. The accused persons and their ld.counsels have submitted 

that there is no evidence against accused persons and they have been 

falsely implicated in this case. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.17 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 21. Accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) besides advancing 

arguments on the point of charge, also argued his three applications, 

which have been taken up for their disposal together with arguments on 

charge. His applications are u/s 227 Cr.PC for his discharge; seeking 

appropriate direction for invoking doctrine of parity in view of the policy 

decision of the CBI and additional submissions objecting to the 

jurisdiction of this court to try the present case with reference to the 

judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in A Subair Vs. State of Kerala , 

2009 Cri.LJ 3450. He has also filed composite written arguments on 

charge as well as his pending applications. 22. It has been argued by him that CBI had illegally investigated 

this case and the court should not proceed with the trial as a mute 

spectator and be party to the illegal investigation. He has relied upon CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.18 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in R R Kishore Vs. CBI , 2006 VIII 

AD (Delhi) 545 in which it was held by Hon'ble Delhi High Court that if 

no objection is taken at the initial stage and trial proceeds then the same 

can be set aside only if it has resulted in miscarriage of justice. It was 

further observed by Delhi High Court that if the illegal investigation is 

brought to the notice of trial court at the initial stage then the court ought 

not to proceed with the trial and direct re­investigation so that defect in 

investigation is cured. It has been argued by accused/Narayan Diwakar 

(A­1) that the CBI has launched an illegal and unfair prosecution against 

him. This court does not find any illegality in the investigation of the 

case and law does not confer a right on an accused to seek the direction 

for re­investigation of a case. 23. He has argued that the ld.Public Prosecutor has no locus 

standi as his appointment is not validly notified u/s 24 / 25 Cr.PC and urge CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.19 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . that on this account, he has been deprived of fair prosecution as the 

prosecutors of CBI are subordinate and under strict control of CBI and 

have been assigned with the dual function of investigating as well as 

prosecuting which is against the mandate of criminal procedure code. 24. The procedure and manner of appointment of public 

prosecutor is contained in Section 24 of Cr.PC and it is no where stated 

in that section that the Public Prosecutors are appointed by the Director 

of CBI, as they are recruited through Union Public Service Commission 

(UPSC) and appointed by the President of India. 25. It has been submitted by ld.Public Prosecutor that after 

pronouncement of judgment in S B Sahaney and Others Vs. State of 

Maharashtra and Anr., 1995 SUPP (3) SCC 37, the prosecution 

department of CBI has been made a separate department and the CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.20 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Director of Prosecution is made the head of department and public 

prosecutors are answerable to him. He has then submitted that under 

these circumstances, it can not be said that the prosecution department 

is under the direct influence of Director CBI. 26. Since the Public Prosecutors of CBI are appointed u/s 24 of 

Cr.PC by the order of Hon'ble President of India, therefore, there is no 

substance in the submissions of accused that Public Prosecutors are 

appointed by the Director CBI and work under his direct control. 27. It has been submitted by the accused that the charge sheet 

has not been filed as per the provisions of Section 173 of Cr.PC as it 

bears the signature of ld.Public Prosecutor besides the Superintendent 

of Police (SP) and Investigating Officer (IO) of the case. Hence it is 

argued by him that in the present case the prosecutor, who is involved in CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.21 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . the investigation, can not fairly prosecute as he has become the part of 

the investigation. In this case, I find that there is no signature of Public 

Prosecutor on the charge sheet and furthermore when the charge sheet 

is endorsed by the Public Prosecutor, it does not violate the mandate of 

Hon'ble Supreme Court in R Sarla Vs. T S Valu , AIR 2000 SC 1731, 

wherein the Hon'ble Supeme Court had laid down as under:­

 "that the investigation and prosecution are two different 
 facets in the administration of criminal justice. The role of 
 public prosecutor is inside the court and whereas the role of 
 the investigating officer to investigate the case is outside the 
 court. Normally the role of the public prosecutor commences 
 after the investigating agency presents the case in the court 
 on the culmination of investigation. Involving the public 
 prosecutor in investigation is in­judicious as well as 
 pernicious in law. The investigating officer can not be 
 directed to consult the public prosecutor and submit a charge 
 sheet in tune with the opinion of the public prosecutor." 28. In fact the observation of Hon'ble Supreme Court in above 

referred case clarifies that the IO can not be directed by the court to CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.22 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . consult the public prosecutor and submit a charge sheet in tune with the 

opinion of the public prosecutor. However, in case IO finds some 

difficulty during the investigation, he is not precluded from seeking 

opinion of the public prosecutor. Thus, I find that there is no such 

mandate of the court of law that the public prosecutor can not be 

consulted by the IO. Recommendation, if any, of the public prosecutor 

on the charge sheet may not amount to any interference with the 

investigation because by that time the investigation is already complete 

as only before filing charge sheet the endorsement of public prosecutor 

may be obtained in some cases. In my view, it does not violate the 

mandate of law or result into any prejudice to the accused. 29. It has been further argued by accused/Narayan Diwakar 

(A­1) that he being Registrar of Co­operative Societies was acting as 

quasi judicial officer u/s 3 of DCS Act, 1972 and, therefore, order, if any CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.23 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . passed by him, could not be questioned in any court of law on 

whatsoever grounds. He has argued that as per Section 94 of the DCS 

Act, he had all the powers of civil court and hence as per Section 95 of 

the same Act, no suit or prosecution or any other legal proceedings 

would lie against him or any person subordinate to him in respect of 

anything done in good faith or purported to have been done under this 

Act. 30. In this respect, I find that role assigned to the applicant in the 

charge sheet is that he, in conspiracy with other accused persons, 

including his subordinate officials and private public person dishonestly 

and fraudulently revived Birla Udyog Employees CGHS on the basis of 

forged and fabricated documents submitted by accused/Ashutosh Pant 

(A­6) and he further falsely and dishonestly shown the presence of one 

Jagroop Sharma, so called President and M C Pant, so called Secretary CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.24 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . of the society and fraudulently mentioned in his revival order dated 

29.01.04 that winding up order which was passed by the then 

Dy.Registrar was not in accordance with laid down procedure, as the 

reasons for winding up of the society were not adequate for initiating 

such an extreme step, despite the fact that Sh.Satish Mathur in whose 

name the winding up order was stated to had been made, was never 

posted as Dy.Registrar during the relevant time. Investigation had also 

revealed that date and dispatch number of winding up order were forged 

by accused/Ashutosh Pant (A­6). Thus, his acts, as alleged in charge 

sheet do not amount to doing the same in good faith, therefore, his claim 

for any protection is not tenable. 31. It has been further argued by accused no.1 that no offence is 

made out u/s 13 of PC Act as the prosecution has to prove that he had 

accepted either any bribe or any pecuniary advantage which is neither CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.25 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . shown in the charge sheet nor statement of any of the prosecution 

witnesses recorded by IO. He has relied upon judgment cited as State 

of M P Vs. Sheetla Sahai & Ors., (2009) 3 RCR (Crl.) 835, wherein 

while awarding the tender, the accused public servants had allegedly put 

the Government to the loss to the extent of Rs.1,02,46,200/­. However, 

Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the said award of contract was the 

need of the hour and that besides the fact that the accused had caused 

wrongful gain to the third party, section 13(1)(d) of PC Act shall still be 

not attracted as it requires that the award of the contract, given by the 

accused public servant was by abusing his position as a public servant. 

In Sheetla Sahai's case (supra), Hon'ble Supreme Court, after going 

through the facts of the case, had observed that decision of the accused 

therein at the relevant time, was rather in the interest of State. But in the 

present case, I find that the land was sought to be allotted to the society 

having fictitious members whereas the society had allegedly been CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.26 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . liquidated, which do not show that the act was in the interest of State. 

Thus the facts of Sheetla Sahai's case could not be related to the facts 

of the present case and as such the ratio of law propounded by Hon'ble 

Supreme Court in that case is not applicable to the facts & 

circumstances of the present case. 32. Accused/Narayan Diwakar has also relied upon judgment 

titled as A Subair Vs. State of Kerala , but I find that the said case was 

primarily the case of illegal gratification where no demand could be 

proved. Since instant case is not the case involving illegal gratification, 

therefore, there is no force in the submission of accused that demand 

should have been one of the ingredients of the offence alleged against 

him, which is lacking. Thus, he can not claim parity to the accused in A 

Subair 's case (supra). CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.27 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 33. The accused has further submitted that CBI has not adhered 

to the CBI Crtime Manual and he has also relied upon judgment cited as 

Shashi Kant Vs. CBI, AIR 2007 SC 351 and P Sirajudeen Vs. State of 

Madras, AIR 1971 SC 520, to contend that the Central Government has 

laid down certain procedures for conducting the investigation including 

the mode and manner in which the preliminary inquiry should be 

conducted by CBI which can later on be converted into a regular case as 

soon as sufficient material becomes available to show that prima facie 

there has been commission of a cognizance offence. 34. It is further argued that as soon as it is decided to register a 

PE, the SP of CBI will take action to get the PE registration report 

prepared, which will invariably be vetted by him and it can even be 

drafted by him in case of important inquiries. It is submitted that in the 

present case, the CBI Crime Manual was not adhered to as neither the CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.28 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . approval from the director of CBI was obtained for registration of PE nor 

the SP of CBI converted the PE into a regular case. 35. In the instant case, the charge sheet shows that pursuance 

to the directions of Hon'ble High Court, vide order dated 02.08.05 

passed in writ petition (Civil) NO.10066/04, the CBI conducted a 

thorough investigation in the matter of 135 Co­operative Group Housing 

Societies and thereupon the preliminary inquiry was registered and 

subsequently converted to regular FIR. The charge sheet does not 

disclose any such deviation by the CBI while registering or investigating 

the instant case. 36. It has been submitted by accused that requirement of Section 3 of DSPE Act has not been fulfilled by CBI as the offences 

under DCS Act, 1972 are not at all notified by the Government for CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.29 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . investigation by CBI. In this respect, it suffice to observe that the 

accused is not being prosecuted for any offence under the DCS Act and, 

therefore, there can not be any issue regarding non notification of 

offences under DCS Act, 1972 . 37. Accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) has further submitted that 

the consent of State has not been obtained before commencing the 

investigation which is violative of Section 6 of DSPE Act. 38. In this respect, I fully agree with the submissions of 

ld.Special Public Prosecutor for CBI that the issue was answered by 

Hon'ble High Court in Crl.M C No.2784/07 dated 17.09.07, wherein it was 

observed as under:­

 "The investigation was referred to CBI in this case by the 
 High Court. Once investigation of a case is given by the High CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.30 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Court to CBI under its inherent powers, permission from 
 State Government is not required. High Court is competent 
 enough to refer a matter for investigation to CBI.

 Investigation is done by police under Cr.PC . There is no 
 such thing as investigation under Delhi Co­operative Societies Act . In fact lot of bungling, corruption and 
 registration of fake societies was found and the entire 
 episode was investigated. Therefore, after investigation, the 
 charge sheet had to be filed by CBI in respect of all those 
 crimes, commission of which was revealed after 
 investigation. It is also settled law that an act of accused 
 may attract offences under different penal provisions and he 
 can be charged under all such penal provisions." 39. In this respect the matter stands finally settled by the 

Judgment of Constitution bench of Supreme Court in State of West 

Bengal & Others Vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic 

Rights CA No.6249­50/2001 decided on 17.02.10 wherein Hon'ble 

Supreme Court had observed as under:­ 44.Thus, having examined the rival contentions in the context of CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.31 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . the Constitutional Scheme, we conclude as follows:­ (i) The fundamental rights, enshrined in Part III of the 

 Constitution, are inherent and cannot be extinguished by any 

 Constitutional or Statutory provision. Any law that abrogates 

 or abridges such rights would be violative of the basic 

 structure doctrine. The actual effect and impact of the law on 

 the rights guaranteed under Part III has to be taken into 

 account in determining whether or not it destroys the basic 

 structure. (ii) Article 21 of the Constitution in its broad perspective 

 seeks to protect the persons of their lives and personal 

 liberties except according to the procedure established by 

 law. The said Article in its broad application not only takes 

 within its fold enforcement of the rights of an accused but 

 also the rights of the victim. The State has a duty to enforce 

 the human rights of a citizen providing for fair and impartial 

 investigation against any person accused of commission of a 

 cognizable offence, which may include its own officers. In CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.32 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . certain situations even a witness to the crime may seek for 

 and shall be granted protection by the State. (iii) In view of the constitutional scheme and the jurisdiction 

 conferred on this Court under Article 32 and on the High 

 Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution the power of 

 judicial review being an integral part of the basic structure of 

 the Constitution, no Act of Parliament can exclude or curtail 

 the powers of the Constitutional Courts with regard to the 

 enforcement of fundamental rights. As a matter of fact, such 

 a power is essential to give practicable content to the 

 objectives of the Constitution embodied in Part III and other 

 parts of the Constitution. Moreover, in a federal constitution , 

 the distribution of legislative powers between the Parliament 

 and the State Legislature involves limitation on legislative 

 powers and, therefore, this requires an authority other than 

 the Parliament to ascertain whether such limitations are 

 transgressed. Judicial review acts as the final arbiter not 

 only to give effect to the distribution of legislative powers 

 between the Parliament and the State Legislatures, it is also CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.33 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . necessary to show any transgression by each entity. 

 Therefore, to borrow the words of Lord Steyn, judicial review 

 is justified by combination of "the principles of separation of 

 powers, rule of law, the principle of constitutionality and the 

 reach of judicial review". (iv) If the federal structure is violated by any legislative action, 

 the Constitution takes care to protect the federal structure by 

 ensuring that Courts act as guardians and interpreters of the 

 Constitution and provide remedy under Articles 32 and 226 , 

 whenever there is an attempted violation. In the 

 circumstances, any direction by the Supreme Court or the 

 High Court in exercise of power under Article 32 or 226 to 

 uphold the Constitution and maintain the rule of law cannot 

 be termed as violating the federal structure. (v) Restriction on the Parliament by the Constitution and 

 restriction on the Executive by the Parliament under an 

 enactment, do not amount to restriction on the power of the 

 Judiciary under Article 32 and 226 of the Constitution. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.34 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . (vi) If in terms of Entry 2 of List II of The Seventh Schedule 

 on the one hand and Entry 2A and Entry 80 of List I on the 

 other, an investigation by another agency is permissible 

 subject to grant of consent by the State concerned, there is 

 no reason as to why, in an exceptional situation, court would 

 be precluded from exercising the same power which the 

 Union could exercise in terms of the provisions of the Statute. 

 In our opinion, exercise of such power by the constitutional 

 courts would not violate the doctrine of separation of powers. 

 In fact, if in such a situation the court fails to grant relief, it 

 would be failing in its constitutional duty. (vii) When the Special Police Act itself provides that subject 

 to consent by the State, the CBI can take up investigation in 

 relation to the crime which was otherwise within the 

 jurisdiction of the State Police, the court can also exercise its 

 constitutional power of judicial review and direct the CBI to 

 take up the investigation within the jurisdiction of the State. 

 The power of the High Court under Article 226 of the CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.35 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Constitution cannot be taken away, curtailed or diluted by 

 Section 6 of the Special Police Act. Irrespective of there 

 being any statutory provision acting as a restriction on the 

 powers of the Courts, the restriction imposed by Section 6 of 

 the Special Police Act on the powers of the Union, cannot be 

 read as restriction on the powers of the Constitutional Courts. 

 Therefore, exercise of power of judicial review by the High 

 Court, in our opinion, would not amount to infringement of the 

 either the doctrine of separation of power or the federal 

 structure. 45. In the final analysis, our answer to the question referred is 

 that a direction by the High Court, in exercise of its 

 jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, to the CBI to 

 investigate a cognizable offence alleged to have been 

 committed within the territory of a State without the consent 

 of that State will neither impinge upon the federal structure of 

 the Constitution nor violate the doctrine of separation of 

 power and shall be valid in law. Being the protectors of civil 

 liberties of the citizens, this court and the High Courts have CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.36 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . not only the power and jurisdiction but also an obligation to 

 protect the fundamental rights, guaranteed by Part III in 

 general and under Article 21 of the Constitution in particular, 

 zealously and vigilantly. 40. Thus, I find that there has been no violation that Section 3 & 6 of DSPE Act by the CBI as claimed by accused/Narayan Diwakar 

(A­1). 41. It has been submitted by accused/Narayan Diwakar that 

there was no illegality in the order of setting aside the winding up of the 

society because as per the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Vikas CGHS Vs. Registrar of Co­operative Societies & Ors (Civil Writ No.

1767/96) and as per Rule 105 of DCS Act, 1972 , the winding up 

proceedings of a society has to be closed within one year from the date 

of winding up unless the period is extended by Registrar and proviso to 

Sub Rule 1 of Rule 105 provides that Registrar can extend the period not CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.37 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . exceeding six months at time and the extension can only be granted for 

a period of three years. It was observed by Hon'ble High Court that in 

their view it has to be assumed that the order passed u/s 63 of DCS Act 

was cancelled and the society continues to exist. Thus, it has been 

submitted by accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) that even without his order 

the society in question was deemed to be existing and thus there was no 

impact of revival order passed by him. In the present case, this issue is 

not in question and in fact the allegations against accused/Narayan 

Diwakar (A­1) are very clear that he passed the order of cancellation of 

winding up of the society in conspiracy with other accused persons for 

the purpose of obtaining for himself or for private accused persons a 

valuable thing or pecuniary advantage i.e. allotment of land by DDA at 

cheaper rate and thus he abused his position as a public servant without 

holding any public interest while holding office as a public servant. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.38 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 42. Arguing his application to invoke the doctrine of party, it has 

been submitted by accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) that as per circular 

no.02/2010 dated 11.03.10, a policy decision was taken by CBI clarifying 

that employees of National Agricultural Co­operative Marketing 

Federation of India Limited (NAFED) are not public servants under P C 

Act, 1988, hence there would be no requirement of seeking permission 

of the Government u/s 6 A of DSPE Act, 1946 or sanction of the 

Government for prosecution u/s 19 of the PC Act, 1988 . 

Accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) was working as a Registrar of Co­

operative Societies and he was not an employee of a society registered 

under DCS Act, hence he or other employees of RCS can not claim 

parity with employees of NAFED, who may be employees of that society. 

Thus, I find that none of the legal submission and applications of 

accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1), as discussed above, hold any merits, 

hence dismissed. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.39 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 43. He has also relied upon judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court 

in Union of India Vs. Prafulla Kumar reported as 1979 Cri.LJ 154, 

wherein it was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court that while considering the 

question of framing of charge, the court has the undoubted power to sift 

and weigh the evidence for the limited purpose of finding out whether or 

not a prima facie case against the accused has been made out and if 

two views are equally possible and the judge is satisfied that the 

evidence produced before him while giving rise to some suspicion but 

not grave suspicion against the accused, he will be fully within his right 

to discharge the accused. 44. We have already seen as to what are the allegations against 

accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) and we will see what is the evidence 

arrayed by the prosecution against accused/Narayan Diwakar and his 

other co­accused persons. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.40 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 45. Accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) then working as Registrar of 

Co­operative Societies knowing fully well that original file of the society 

had not been placed before him, on the basis of a false note put by A­3, 

based on false inspection report of A­4, put up to him through A­2 for 

proceedings u/s 63 of DCS Act, 1972 (for revival of wound up society), 

without ensuring genuineness of the records submitted on behalf of 

society, approved issuance of the notice to President/Secretary of the 

society, which was delivered by his Reader to A­6 by hand. A­1 also 

falsely shown presence of one Jagroop Sharma, a non­existent person, 

as President of the society in the order sheet dated 23.12.03 and ordered 

for verification of records pertaining to membership, audit, election and 

spot verification. A­4 was deputed by A­2 for this purpose vide order 

dated 31.12.03 to conduct physical verification of members at random 

and submit his report within 3 days, who submitted a false report on CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.41 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 05.01.04 stating that he visited residence of some members who were 

either non existent or not the members of society who denied and stated 

that RCS official never visited them. A­2 and A­3 prepared a false report 

regarding verification of documents submitted on 06.01.04 and 07.01.04 

mentioning that original records of the society i.e list of 42 members who 

resigned prior to 30.06.86, list of 144 members enrolled before 30.06.86, 

fresh affidavits of 119 members etc have all been verified. In fact 

signature in the name of one Chaudhary Lal Singh, Treasurer/executive 

member of the society were forged by A­6 on election proceedings, 

special general body meeting and application forms for membership, 

affidavits etc., which has been confirmed by GEQD opinion. Pursuant to 

this criminal conspiracy, accused nos.2 & 3 had recommended to RCS 

(A­1) for revival of society u/s 63(3) of DCS Act, 1972 as also approval of 

freeze list of 119 members for allotment of land. RCS (A­1) made an 

order on 08.01.04 on the order sheet wherein he has falsely shown CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.42 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . presence of Mr.M C Pant, Secretary of society, who denied having over 

become member of society or attended any such proceeding. Again on 

22.01.04, he made an order showing presence of one Jagroop Sharma 

as President of society, who is non­existent person. He falsely 

mentioned that the winding up order of the society passed by then 

Dy.Registrar, was not in accordance with laid down procedure and 

reasons for initiating such an extreme step were not adequate. The date 

and dispatch number of the said winding up order were found forged by 

A­6, is confirmed by GEQD, no person in the name of Sh.Satish Mathur 

was posted as DR during 1986 when the said winding up order was 

stated to had been passed by DR. The order was passed by him on 

29.01.04 reviving the society vide order dated 29.01.04 subject to the 

condition that audit of society shall be got completed within two months 

time and he also appointed Deen Bandhu Prasad, Gr.IV as Election 

Officer. I have gone through the documentary and oral evidence arrayed CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.43 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . by the prosecution to prove all these allegations and find that a prima 

facie case exists against accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1) that he abused 

his official position by corrupt and illegal means as public servant by 

entering into criminal conspiracy with other accused persons for 

achieving aforesaid ends. 46. Accused no.2/Sita Ram Goyal has also filed written 

arguments praying for his discharge. He has submitted that when the 

society was wound up for its non­functioning/not holding AGM, non­

compliance of audit of its accounts and elections etc., the revocation of 

winding up order in respect of such a society, was not at all justified 

under the DCS Act & Rules and its conditional revival was altogether a 

farce and abuse of power by RCS when the shortcomings were not 

removed or rectified. According to him, RCS (A­1), knowing well that he 

was going to superannuate on 30.06.04, had created and executed an CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.44 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . strategy to implement his game plan to revive such societies after 

December, 2002. He submitted that for all practical purposes, he being 

AR was junior most officer in the department and worked under 

dictate/order/instructions of RCS (A­1) in good faith only and RCS was in 

fact functioning in connivance with his personal staff i.e. officials working 

in personal branch. He alleged that RCS (A­1) was actually running his 

office just like a proprietorship firm because there was no policy decision 

of the Government to revive each and every society and rather it was 

stage manged by A­1. To elucidate this allegation, he has submitted that 

there is every reason to believe that the then RCS and his personal staff 

had managed to dictate their own terms in the alleged cases as no 

original record was ever produced before AR since RCS himself used to 

requisition the record on notice(s) issued by his Reader, the cases were 

kept for orders but no orders were pronounced by RCS in open court 

and his Reader functioned as extra­judicial authority who used to record CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.45 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . minutes/remarks on the file before transferring the file to Zonal Office. 

He alleged that in all cases Reader to RCS was a party to alleged scam 

of fabricating and manipulating the matter in the manner devised by RCS 

(A­1). 47. Accused Sita Ram Goyal (A­2) has alleged that RCS (A­1) 

ordered for audit of society for more than 15 years in one go, in each 

case, knowing fully well that an Auditor could not undertake audit work of 

the society for more than three years at a time in terms of Rule 84(1) of 

DCS Rules, 1973. RCS had never ordered for the 'table audit' of the 

society in the RCS office and the Auditor (A­7) was duty bound to 

conduct its audit at its registered office under Rule 84(5) of DCS Rules, 

1973 and that no intimation was given to the society for commencement 

of its audit as envisaged under Rule 84(6). He also alleged that 

accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) who conducted audit was only posted as CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.46 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Head Clerk in Audit Branch of RCS but never selected/appointed as 

Auditor. He has submitted that although the cut off date for sending the 

list of members to DDA was 31.10.03 but RCS continued his game plan 

for revival of societies beyond 31.10.03 and the said cut off date was 

never disclosed to him (A­2). 48. As regards accused/R B Chauhan (A­3), accused S R Goyal 

has submitted that he (R B Chauhan) was already working as Dealing 

Assistant in the West Zone of RCS Office, when he joined there as AR 

(West) on 14.10.03 on promotion to DANICS Cadre. It is submitted that 

A­3 was well experienced and well known to the individual visitors of 

West Zone of RCS office and may have connived with them as he put up 

the application dated 07.07.03, filed by one Jagroop Sharma seeking 

cancellation of the winding up order on 18.11.03, in a calculated manner 

although the same was received in RCS office on 17.07.03. He (A­3) had CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.47 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . again put up the case file on 09.12.03 (page 3/N of D­19) vide his typed 

note suggesting to requisition the records from the society for cross 

verification so as to enable the office to reconstruct the case file in terms 

order of RCS dated 28.11.03 (page 1/N of D­19) which was accepted by 

him in good faith (page 3/N of D­19). He has submitted that it was R B 

Chauhan (A­3), being Dealing Assistant, who himself was exclusively 

monitoring the case file and must have delivered the impugned 

letter/order, which was otherwise to be issued under proper 

acknowledgment to its rightful addressee and the person to whom it was 

delivered, may be well known to him (A­3). 49. He has then submitted that Dealing Assistant/R B Chauhan 

(A­3) vide note dated 15.12.03 (5/N of D­19) had, inter alia, mentioned 

that all records/documents pertaining to revival of society will be 

produced by its President, as and when directed and that he (A­2) had CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.48 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . relied upon inspection report made available to him by inspecting official, 

in good faith, as it was beyond his imagination that a false and fabricated 

report had been furnished by inspecting official. He has submitted that 

Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5) was posted as LDC in the personal branch 

of RCS, who had submitted a fake and fictitious election report 

highlighting that RCS office was in fact being run like a proprietorship 

firm of then RCS (A­1). He has submitted that it is only for the then RCS 

(A­1) to explain as to how he has shown presence of a non­existent 

person Jagroop Sharma, President of the society along with concerned 

Dealing inspector on 22.01.04 (page 23/N of D­19). He has also 

submitted that money was never demanded or accepted by him (A­2), 

hence provisions of PC Act are not applicable qua him. 50. Thus, in nut cell , accused no.2 has submitted that he has 

done alleged acts in good faith and as per the directions of RCS (A­1) CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.49 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . under whose supervision he was functioning and that he became victim 

of the game plan hatched by RCS (A­1) with other accused persons. 

This is in fact the defence of accused Sita Ram Goyal (A­2), the 

credibility of which has to be tested only during the trial. At this stage, it 

is sufficient to say that he played a vital role in commission of alleged 

offence as he was the officer through whom all the notings were 

forwarded to RCS (A­1) for his approval and thus in view of oral and 

documentary evidence available on record, I find that there is sufficient 

material available against him to prima facie show that he was involved 

with other accused persons in the criminal conspiracy as alleged. His 

submission that no money was demanded or accepted by him also does 

carry any weight as the demand and acceptance of money by the public 

servant is not the essential ingredient of an offence under Section 13(1) (d) of PC Act . CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.50 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 51. Sh.R P Shukla, Advocate, who also appeared as a counsel 

for accused/Raj Bhushan Chauhan (A­3) has submitted that he 

(accused/R B Chauhan) has been falsely implicated in this case and he 

had put up the note for revival of society (D­19) in file in routine course 

on instructions of RCS (A­1) and in fact he was not having any authority 

which could be misused by him and all the documents were seen by 

RCS who accorded approval based on documents. He has also 

submitted that there is no allegation that A­3 had advised 

accused/Ashutosh Pant (A­6) to fabricate documents and make an 

application for revival of the society. 52. The role and involvement of accused/R B Chauhan (A­3) has 

been discussed above elaborately. There is sufficient oral and 

documentary evidence arrayed by the prosecution to substantiate the 

allegations against him. The charge sheet when read with statements of CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.51 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . witnesses and documentary evidence i.e. files maintained at RCS office 

reveal that he worked as catalyst in the commission of offence. His 

defence that he was working in accordance with the instructions of his 

superiors only and not conspiring with other accused persons, has to be 

tested during the trial but at this stage it suffice to observe that there is 

overwhelmingly sufficient material on record in the form of documentary 

as well as oral evidence to take a prima facie view that he conspired with 

other accused persons for revival of the society. 53. Sh.S K Bhatnagar, Advocate, appearing for accused/Ram 

Nath (A­4) has argued some legal issues which have already been dealt 

with while dealing with arguments of accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­1). 

Besides legal issues, he has also submitted that accused Ram Nath had 

done inspection in good faith and there was no instrument with him to 

check that the documents provided to him were forged and not genuine. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.52 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . The role of accused/Ram Nath (A­4) has been seen in detail. He was 

dishonestly appointed by RCS vide order dated 31.12.03 to conduct 

physical verification of members of society at random. But in connivance 

with private persons, he furnished a false and fabricated report regarding 

the existence of the society and random physical verification of some of 

the members. Vide order dated 28.11.03, he was appointed to conduct 

an inspection but he submitted a false report dated 12.12.03 that he 

visited WZ­3352, Mahindra Park, Delhi. He also falsely reported that he 

met with the President of the society Jagroop Sharma, who produced 

various records. But said Jagroop Sharma turned out to be a non­

existing person. On the basis of his inspecting report and other forged 

and fabricated documents, purportedly submitted by the society, the 

revival of the society was done by A­1 and final list of the members of 

the society was sent to AR (Policy) for onward transmission to DDA for 

allotment of land. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.53 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . 54. The CBI has inter alia recorded statements of 

PW­2/Smt.Sada Kaur and PW­3/J P Sharma, both owners of WZ­3352, 

Mahindra Park, Delhi who stated that no person in the name of Jagroop 

Sharma ever resided there and their house was never used as address 

of the society and official of RCS never visited their house for the 

purpose of verification. Thus, there is sufficient evidence collected by 

CBI to show that accused/Ram Nath (A­4) conspired with other accused 

persons and forged the report in order to get the society revived. Thus, 

prima facie sufficient evidence is on record to frame charge against 

accused/Ram Nath (A­4) also. 55. Sh.Neeraj Verma, Advocate appearing for accused/Deen 

Bandhu Prasad (A­5) has submitted that RCS (A­1) had cancelled the 

winding up order dated 29.09.86 by his order dated 29.01.04 and vide CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.54 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . same order he had appointed accused/Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5), 

Grade­IV of his department as election officer to conduct the election of 

managing committee of the society, hence he had carried out elections 

of society. He has submitted that now A­5 is being falsely implicated by 

CBI alleging that he forged the election proceedings in conspiracy with 

other accused persons. 56. The investigation revealed that accused/Deen Bandhu 

Prasad (A­5), pursuant to criminal conspiracy, had prepared false 

election report of the society showing presence of 29 members in the 

election of M C Meeting held on 29.02.04 and shown elected 

S/Sh.Jagroop Sharma as President, Sh.S K Paliwal as Vice President 

and Chaudhary Lal Singh, Mahesh Chander, Murari Lal Parashar, 

S/Smt.Parvati Devi and Savitri Devi Gupta as M C Members. The 

GEQD opinion has confirmed that election report was in fact written by CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.55 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . accused/Ashutosh Pant (A­6) who had forged the signatures of 

Chaudhary Lal Singh and S M Mehdi. This allegation is supported by 

documentary evidence i.e election report, GEQD report and sufficient 

oral evidence. So, I find that sufficient evidence is on record to take a 

prima facie view that accused Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5) had forged the 

election report pursuant to criminal conspiracy and thus a case to frame 

charge is also made out against him. 57. Sh.Harish Khanna, Advocate, appearing for accused 

Ashutosh Pant (A­6) has submitted that the CBI carried out illegal 

investigation in this case. Relying upon judgment cited as Rakesh 

Kumar Vs. Satte , 2004 (1) JCC 110, it has been submitted by ld.counsel 

for A­6 that the opinion of handwriting expert can not be relied upon by 

the prosecution as the specimen of handwriting and signatures of A­6 

were obtained by CBI without permission and directions of the court. It CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.56 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . is admitted case that A­6 was not arrested in this case and the matter 

was not under enquiry or trial when the specimen handwriting/signatures 

of A.6 were obtained by CBI for expert opinion. There is nothing on 

record to show that such giving of specimen handwriting/signature was 

not a voluntary act on the part of accused/Ashutosh Pant (A­6). The 

Hon'ble High Court in Rakesh Kumar 's case (supra) had placed reliance 

on judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sukhvinder Singh & Ors. 

Vs. State of Punjab JT 1994(4) SC1 in which case specimen of 

handwriting of appellant were taken under the direction of Naib 

Tehsildar(Executive Magistrate) whereas the case was pending before a 

designated court under TADA. In that situation Hon'ble Supreme Court 

held that the direction of Naib Tehsildar to give specimen handwriting 

was unwarranted and not contemplated by section 73 of Evidence Act. 58. In the instant case the circumstances are entirely different. CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.57 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . There was no enquiry or trial pending before the court when A.6 had 

given specimen handwriting/signature to IO for comparison and opinion 

by GEQD and A.6 was also not arrested and, therefore, the provisions of Section 73 Evidence Act were not attracted. Hence, CBI was not 

required to take permission/direction from the court for obtaining 

specimen handwriting/signature of A.6 and it is not the case here that 

accused Ashutosh Pant (A.6) was, in any manner, compelled to give 

specimen signature/writing for the purpose of expert opinion. 59. Thus the contention of Ld. Defence counsel for accused 

Ashutosh Pant (A­6) does not hold good more particularly in view of the 

judgment of Full Bench of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in Bhupender 

Singh Vs. State, Crl.Appeal No.1005/2008 (D.O.D.30.09.11) in which it 

has been held that "view expressed in the case of Sunil Kumar by Ld. 

Single Judge lays down the law in correct perspective. In Sunil Kumar CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.58 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . @ Sonu Vs. State of NCT of Delhi Crl.A.No.446/05 (decided on 

25.03.10) it was held that where specimen finger print impressions of the 

appellants were taken by the IO directly and not though Magistrate, it 

was held that it was not obligatory for him to approach Magistrate u/s 5 in view of powers conferred on him u/s 4 of Identification of provisions 

Act, 1920. The Hon'ble High Court has also relied upon Judgment cited 

as State Vs. M.Krishna Mohan & Anr. (2007) 14 SCC 667 wherein it 

was opined by the Apex Court that the specimen finger prints and 

handwriting can be taken from an accused. In para 15 of the judgment, 

the Hon'ble Court also referred and relied upon judgment in Manikram 

Vs. State (2009) 5 CTC 316 wherein it was held that:­

 'There is no law which prohibits the investigating officer 
 from lifting the finger prints of the accused for comparison 
 during the course of investigation of the case. Section5 of 
 the 1920 Act and Section 311­A of the Code of Criminal 
 Procedure , as inserted by Act 25 of 2005 with effect from 
 23.06.2006, speak only about the powers of the Judicial CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.59 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Magistrate when he is approached by the investigating 
 officer for the purpose of issuance of a suitable direction 
 to the accused to cooperate by giving his finger prints or 
 signature or sample handwriting, as the case may be. 
 Needless to empahsise, neither Section 5 nor Section 
 311­A put any embargo on the investigating officer for 
 action on his own for taking the finger prints, signature or 
 handwriting of the accused during the course of 
 investigation. It has been held in the said case that there 
 is no mandatory provision under the 1920 Act to obtain 
 the permission of the Magistrate.' 60. Sh.Khanna has also referred and relied upon certain orders 

of Hon'ble High Court in WP(C) No.1786/11, 2426/11 and 2441/11 all 

dated 23.05.11 and Crl.Rev.Pet.No.397/10 dated 17.01.11. On careful 

perusal of these orders, I find that those orders do not help the accused 

in this case in any manner. As already discussed above, there is 

overwhelming evidence available on record that it was accused 

Ashutosh Pant (a­6) who forged the number of documents and 

proceedings to get the society revived in conspiracy with public servants. 

GEQD opinion is on record to the effect that the documents/proceedings CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.60 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . were forged by him. Thus, a prima facie case is made out against him 

also to frame charge for commission of offences alleged against him. 61. Sh.S K Bhatnagar, ld.counsel for accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) 

has argued that the RCS had cancelled the winding up order and had 

directed the audit of the society, to be conducted within two months from 

the date of issue of his order dated 29.01.04. He has submitted that the 

audit report of accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) had no bearing on the order 

passed by RCS as the audit report was submitted much after the order 

for cancellation of winding up of the society, was passed by 

accused/Narayan Diwakar, RCS (A­1). He has submitted that in this 

respect, it can not be said that accused/Narayan Diwakar (A­7) had 

entered into a criminal consp8iracy with remaining accused persons. He 

has also submitted that accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) while submitting the 

audit report had given seven observations/objections and had CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.61 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . recommended for removal thereof and had he been involved in the 

conspiracy he would not have made such observations as AGM/election 

of the society should be held every year in accordance with the Act and 

rules; M C meeting should be held once in every month; approval of new 

enrolled members should be taken from the RCS office; share allotment 

register should be maintained and share certificate should be issued to 

all members of the society; cash retention limit should be fixed and cash 

book should be written daily; financial position should be improved to 

avoid loss to the society and compliance report should be sent in 

proforma to the RCS office. He had also observed that there is no 

transaction with the bank during the period under audit, however, 

balance lying with the banks as per the close of the year is subject to the 

confirmation from the concerned banks and if required the reconciliation 

may be done for the same. He further mentioned that MC members are 

directed to obtain the balance confirmation certificate from the CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.62 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . concerned bank and the same be kept on record and be also submitted 

to RCS office. 62. It appears to the court that these observations made in the 

audit report were only an eye wash as instead of seeing the books of 

society from the perspective of an auditor, he made certain observation 

only in order to lend credence to the order passed by RCS which prima 

facie shows that his appointment as auditor to conduct audit of said 

society and subsequently his audit report was pursuant to a criminal 

conspiracy between him and the other accused persons. Thus, there is 

no force in the submissions of ld.counsel for accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) 

that making of observations by auditor/P K Thirwani (A­7) would show 

his bonafide. 63. As regards submissions of ld.counsel for accused/P K CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.63 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Thirwani (A­7) that the society was already revived before submission of 

audit report, it suffice to observe that the entire proceedings show that 

RCS wanted to give a cover up to his order by directing audit of 

accounts of the society accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) to justify his order. 64. Investigation has revealed that accused/P K Thirwani (A­7) 

has prepared false audit report dated 03.02.04 (D­22) in which an 

amount of Rs.10,000/­ had been shown as balance available on 

31.03.03, whereas the bank account of society was already closed 

during 1990 and he did the audit of the society violating the DCS rules 

and thus he has abused his official position with object to show that Birla 

Udyog Employees CGHS was functional. He has also written names of 

President­Jagroop Sharma, Secretary­Mahesh Chand, Trerasurer­

Chaudhary Lal Singh on the brief summary of the society in the 

signature column to lend a credence to his audit report instead of 

obtaining the signatures of actual office bearers of the society. GEQD CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.64 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . opinion is also available on record to show the falsifications of the audit 

report submitted by accused/P K Thirwani (A­7). No office of the society 

ever existed at the given address then where did he conduct the audit of 

the society when there was no direction to him to conduct table audit 

sitting in RCS office or somewhere else. 65. The prosecution has arrayed as many as 126 witnesses to 

prove the charge against accused person. PW­1 S/Sh.Yogiraj had been 

the Asstt.Registrar in the office of RCS, PW­2 Sada Kaur and PW­3/J P 

Sharma are owners of the properties which had been shown as new 

address of society's office who stated that no person in the name of 

Jagroop Sharma ever resided in their house and no such office of 

society ever functioned from their house and no one from RCS office 

ever visited their address. PW­4 Maya Devi stated that Smt.Savitri 

Gupta never resided over there for last 11 years and none from RCS CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.65 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . office ever visited her house for verification. PW­5 Golesta Joseph 

denied having ever signed any affidavit or applied for membership of 

society. She also stated that no RCS official ever visited her residence 

for verification. Similar are the statements of PW­6/R Viren Tirki and 

PW­10/Parwati Devi. PW­9 Chandheri Lal Singh denied signatures in 

his name in society records and stated that no RCS official ever visited 

him. PW­11 Zoobi Amir stated that his father Amirullah Khan died on 

10.12.83 hence there was no question of his filing affidavit, the stamp 

paper of which was purchased on 04.12.03 or attending the Spl.GBM of 

society on 29.02.04. Similar is testimony of PW­12/Sohail Hashmi 

whose father Haneef Hashmi had already expired in 1976 so there was 

no question of him filing affidavit in 2003 and becoming member of the 

society. PW­13 to 27, 31 and 35 have also made statements on the 

same lines. PW­36/Har Lal (Postman) of beat no.2 JNU Post Office 

stated that the speed post sent by CBI dated 23.02.06 to Radhey Shyam CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.66 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . Kediya at C­17, Munirka, Delhi returned with remarks 'incomplete 

address' of letter dated 24.02.06. He said that no such address exists. 

Simiarly, PW­43 Jai Shree Bhagwan (Postman) of Rajender Nagar Post 

Office stated that speed post dated 23.02.06 addressed to G P Vajirani 

(sl.no.41) was returned as 'no such person at given address.' Similar 

are statements of other postmen who were examined by IO as PW­44 to 108. IO recorded statements of other witnesses also. 66. In view of above discussion of facts and evidence arrayed by 

the prosecution to prove the case, I find that a prima face case to frame 

charge u/s 120B r/w Section 420/468/471 r/w 468 IPC and Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act, 1988 is made out against accused Narayan 

Diwakar (A­1); Sita Ram Goyal (A­2); R B Chauhan (A­3); Ram Nath 

(A­4); Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5); Ashutosh pant (A­6) and P K 

Thirwani (A­7). Besides, the prima facie case to frame charge for 

substantive offence u/s 15 r/w Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act, 1988, is made CBI No.62 of 2008 Page No.67 of 68 CBI Vs. Narayan Diwakar & Ors . out against accused public servants Narayan Diwakar (A­1); Sita Ram 

Goyal (A­2); R B Chauhan (A­3); Ram Nath (A­4); Deen Bandhu Prasad 

(A­5) and P K Thirwani (A­7). The prima facie case to frame charge for 

substantive offences u/s 420 r/w 511/468/471 r/w 468 IPC against 

accused Ashutosh Pant (A­6), substantive offences u/s 468 and 471 r/w 

468 against accused Ram Nath (A­4); Deen Bandhu Prasad (A­5) and P 

K Thirwani (A­7) are also made out. I, therefore, direct that the charge 

be framed against accused persons accordingly. 67. It is clarified that nothing in this order shall be taken as 

comments on the merits of the case.