Vinod Chandran, J. The appeal is filed against the dismissal of a

bail application in S.C.No.No.3/2019/NIA by the 18th

accused. The offence alleged are under 120B IPC and Sections 38 and 39 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention)

Act, 2019 ['UA(P)A' for short]. The appellant was arrested

on 30.04.2019 and is continuing in judicial custody since

then, excepting five days when he was sent to police

custody on appropriate orders. The present application is

the fourth bail application filed by the appellant. 2. We heard Sri.B.A.Aloor, learned Counsel

appearing for the appellant and Sri.Arjun Ambalapatta,

learned Senior Public Prosecutor, NIA. 3. The learned Counsel for the appellant points

out that there are 18 accused, some of whom are

absconding, some convicted and the others prefer detention

in custody. It is pointed out that the entire allegations Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 3 - commenced from the registration of a crime in Chandera

Police Station, Kasaragod. The appellant has been roped in

invoking Section 120B, unjustifiably since there is no

evidence of the appellant having participated in any

conspiracy. The appellant is not a member of any terrorist

organization and there is not even an allegation that the

appellant acted with the intention to bring Islamic State

to India. In the charge-sheet, there is no no allegation

of threats being levelled against any of the witnesses and

the appellant would comply with any stringent conditions

imposed by this Court and would faithfully attend before

Court when summoned. The incriminating material available,

according to the prosecution, are 40 documents and the

statements given by CW-21 to CW-29. The investigation has

been carried on from 2016 to 2019 and no material is

available with the prosecution which would even prima

facie establish the accusation against the appellant. The

appellant has not moved out of India and his Passport does

not show any visit to an Islamic State or Sri Lanka. It is

alleged that the entire allegation against the appellant

hinges on a conspiracy hatched, which led to suicide

bombings carried out in the neighbouring Sri Lanka. The Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 4 - appellant relies on Union of India v. K.A Najeeb [(2021)

3 SCC 713] and submits that he is under custody from

29.04.2019 and his statement was recorded on 13.05.2019

while continuing in custody. 4. The learned Special Prosecutor points out

that though the investigation commenced from Crime No.534

of 2016 of Chandera Police Station, registered on the

complaint of the father of A1; that A1, his wife and child

are missing after they left for Bombay. Investigation

revealed a criminal conspiracy for commission of unlawful

activities, membership and support to a proscribed

terrorist organization, the Islamic State of Iraq and

Syria (ISIS). There are 40 persons arraigned in the list

of accused and A2 was also incorporated in the list of

accused. The trial against A2 is completed and her

conviction under Section 38 of UA(P)A has been confirmed

by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the sentence of 7 years

of rigorous imprisonment, as granted by the trial Court,

is restored and affirmed. Many of the accused left the

country and joined ISIS by travelling to the areas

controlled by ISIS in the Nanagarhar province of

Afghanistan or Syria. A16 and A17 were booked in the Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 5 - course of investigation and a supplementary charge-sheet

was filed against them before the Special Court. On

getting reliable information that A1 and A8, who joined

ISIS in Syria, are in continuous contact with

friends/relatives and are attempting to motivate youth in

Kasargod and Palakkad districts to actively support the

cause of ISIS, further investigation was carried out. A18,

the appellant herein, was thus arraigned along with A19 to

A21 by report dated 29.04.2019. The NIA Court has thrice

rejected the bail applications and there is no scope for

consideration of his subsequent application. 5. We get the details of the earlier bail

applications from the impugned order itself. Twice

applications were filed at the stage of investigation,

which were rejected and the third application filed after

submission of the final report under Section 173 Cr.P.C.

was also dismissed. No challenge was made from any of

these orders. We notice the Full Bench decision of this

Court in Younus Aliar v. Sub Inspector of Police

[2016(3)KLT 877]. The Full Bench answered a reference and

held that when once the NIA Court or the appellate Court

forms an opinion that there are reasonable grounds for Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 6 - believing that the accusation against the accused person

is prima facie true on the basis of the case diary or the

report made under S.173 of the Cr.PC, the same is not

liable to be overlooked while dealing with a subsequent

bail application or appeal; unless there are further

materials or circumstances relied upon in support of that

application. It was held that when subsequent bail

applications are filed during the course of

investigation, the entire case diary can be perused to

consider the new materials or circumstances pointed out in

the subsequent bail application and this would take in

consideration of any matter left unconsidered in the

earlier round. However, when a final report has been filed

under S.173 Cr.PC and a bail application or appeal has

been rejected after that, finding a prima facie case to

reject grant of bail under the proviso to S.43D(5) , then a

subsequent consideration would stand excluded. It was also

observed that if there is a further investigation ordered

and a further report filed, which is then treated as the

final report then that could also be subjected to fresh

scrutiny for grant of bail. The Full Bench, also observed

that these principles are in furtherance of the right of Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 7 - the accused as protected in terms of the judgments of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court interpreting Articles 21 and 22 of

the Constitution of India. K.A Najeeb (supra) was a

reiteration of such principles and the power of

Constitutional Courts to grant bail; even melting down the

rigour of the proviso under S.43D(5) was emphasized; when

there is no likelihood of trial being completed within a

reasonable time and a period of incarceration already

undergone has exceeded a substantial part of the

prescribed sentence. None of these aspects arise in the

case of the appellant as of now. 6. The allegations against the appellant are

listed out in the impugned order, which are extracted

below: 7. The prima facie finding of the Court below,

while dismissing the application, found in the order dated

24.05.2019 is also extracted herein below: submitted to the court for the purpose of this
 petition was taken from the Mobile Phone used
 by the petitioner. The audio clip is allegedly
 that of Abdul Khayoom, an accused in the
 Valapattanam ISIS case. The voice clip
 justifies suicide attacks and urges Muslim
 Youths to be part of it. The fact that the
 voice clip was found in the mobile phone of the
 petitioner will indicate that he is interested Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 9 - in the ideologies of ISIS. The investigation
 also has revealed that the phone contained
 images circulated to celebrate the suicide
 attack in Sri Lanka on the Easter day ie
 21.4.2019. That apart, the witnesses, who were
 questioned by the investigation officer, have
 spoken about the peculiar nature of the
 petitioner and also his affinity towards ISIS.
 A few witnesses have stated that the petitioner
 had urged them to follow the ideology of ISIS.
 Thus, he was actively propagating the ideology
 of ISIS. The Case diary also reveals his close
 association with the group supporting the
 ideology of Zahran Hashim who was responsible
 for the bomb blast in Sri Lanka". 8. We are of the opinion that the appellant

having not travelled outside India is insignificant and

irrelevant insofar as the ingredients of the charges

levelled against him under the UA(P)A. The material

recovered during investigation, specifically the data

recovered from the mobile phone of the accused, points to

a larger conspiracy for spreading the tentacles of ISIS;

which is still under investigation. The appellant was

hoarding books and materials, which indicate active

support and propagation of the ideology of ISIS. These Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 10 - were noticed at the earlier instance to find a prima

facie case against the appellant herein. 9. The materials to be used in trial against the

accused are mobile phones, SIM Cards, air gun, personal

diaries and other books seized from the house of the

appellant by the investigation team. The appellant has

been in constant contact through social media platforms

with absconding A1. The NIA in its objections specifically

refer to the 50th audio clip which A1 had circulated in

encrypted social media 'Telegram Messenger', instigating

Muslims to carry out terror attacks within India. The

accused-appellant has also been chatting online with

absconding accused Abdul Khayoom @ Abu Khalid, who is

charged in the ISIS Valapattanam case. There is also

evidence of the appellant having planned to carry out a

suicide attack in Kerala for furthering the activities of

ISIS in Kerala. There is no allegation, as submitted by

the learned Counsel for the appellant, that he is actively

involved in the explosion carried out at Sri Lanka. The

allegation is that the accused was following the

speeches/videos of Zahran Hashim, the mastermind of the

2019 Easter day suicide attacks in the island nation Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 11 - exhorting violent 'jihad'. 10. The appellant, along with A19 and A20, has

been propagating the ideology of ISIS to further the

objectives of the proscribed organization. The appellant

is also charged with organizing conspiracy meetings in

Kochi City on 26.10.2018 for furthering the activities of

ISIS, wherein he had motivated and sought support from

co-conspirators in committing terrorist attacks inside

Kerala identical to that carried out in Sri Lanka. A19 and

A20 have disclosed these facts in the statements made

before the Magistrate, recorded under Section 164 of

Cr.P.C. They have been made approvers by granting pardon

and they have clearly spoken of the role of the present

appellant. The said statements have been perused by us. 11. In the above circumstances, we find the

Special Court is justified in rejecting the application

for bail. We find justification for both findings. First

on the subsequent application being not maintainable, when

after filing of charge-sheet an earlier application for

bail stood rejected as has been held by the Full Bench of

this Court in Younus Aliyar (supra). On merits too, having

found the accusations against the appellant to be prima Crl.A.No.105 of 2021 - 12 - facie true, we find the Special Court justified in

rejecting the prayer for bail under Section 43D(5) of the

UA(P)A.

 The appeal would stand rejected. Sd/- K. Vinod Chandran
 Judge

 Sd/- Ziyad Rahman A.A.
 Judge
vku/- APPENDIX OF CRL.A 105/2021 APPELLANT'S ANNEXURE: CRL.MP NO.50/2020 DATED ON 04-12-2020.