In a move that could likely target unregistered finfluencers, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has asked for public comments on a consultation paper regarding the recognition of ‘Specified Digital Platform’ (SDP). The paper discusses the preventive and pre-emptive measures a platform must take to prevent illegal activity and be recognised as an SDP.

According to SEBI, registered entities must not associate with unregistered finfluencers who illegally provide advice, recommendations or make any claim, of returns or performance related to a security or securities, explicitly or implicitly through content or advertisements. These entities include stock exchanges, recognised clearing corporations and registered depositories, and their agents. However, these provisions did not apply if entities were associating with unregistered individuals through a specified digital platform.

The paper asks platforms to use artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) tools to identify and analyse the aforementioned illegal activities. It also suggested providing ‘verified’  labels to registered entities and submitting periodic reports for platforms and mechanisms to flag illegal content and persons.

The regulator has asked stakeholders to share their comments by November 12, 2024. Any digital platform seeking recognition as an SDP must apply within three months after the issuance of this circular.

SEBI has charted out both proactive and pre-emptive actions that the platform can take to prevent fraud, impersonation, claims by unregistered entities, and presence of the unregistered entities. Preventive measures include setting down platform policies. These include:

This includes necessary technical tools, systems and expertise that have the ability to identify and analyse the content and/or advertisement related to securities. SEBI has asked platforms to deploy advanced AI and ML tools for this.

SEBI must also have guidelines to identify content that is:

The regulator platforms should have the mechanism to auto-check if an intermediary/entity is registered/recognised by accessing the whitelist published by SEBI and mechanisms to check if agents are on the whitelist published by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) and stock exchanges.

SEBI said that badges will enable users to distinguish between SEBI-registered entities and unregistered entities and allow them to flag content/advertisement by unregistered entities.

SEBI has also charted out measures to take action against those that could not be mitigated by preventative actions. Under this, SEBI has asked platforms to enable:

SEBI has asked SPDs to deploy advanced artificial intelligence (AI)  and machine learning (ML) tools analyse and take curative action against illegal content.

SEBI and SEBI-regulated persons including MIIs must have the ability to escalate or report unlawful content. Similarly, a mechanism to report misleading content or advertisements that authorities can examine should also be in place.

Platforms must take action and promptly verify reported content in specified Turn Around Time (TAT). This includes:

SEBI has stated that the turn-around time for both preventative measures and curative against content/channel/entity is 24 hours and 72 hours, respectively. The turn-around time for curative actions against ads should be 24 hours, and preventative actions against ads must take place before the ad goes live.

SEBI has also said that platforms can approach SEBI in case it has a dispute on the nature of the content/advertisement. Any dispute between SEBI and the platform will be settled by the Securities Appellate Tribunal  (SAT).

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event