% 28.08.2023 1. This judgment decides Issue 1, framed by this Court on 10
 November 2022, which reads as under: 2. The objection that the present suit is not maintainable in view
 of the judgment in Navigators Logistics1, rendered by a learned Single Signature Not Verified 1 (2018) 76 PTC 564 Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 1 of 33 16:36:54
 Judge of this Court, was first taken, in the present proceedings, by
 Defendant 2 on 30 October 2018. It finds reference in certain
 subsequent orders as well. Both sides requested, on 30 August 2022,
 that the issue of maintainability of the present suit in the light of
 Navigators Logistics1, be decided as a preliminary issue. On 10
 November 2022, this Court framed the question as Issue 1, among the
 various issues framed for determination in the case. Subsequently, the
 case was adjourned from time to time for hearing arguments on Issue 1. Arguments were finally addressed on the said Issue on 24 August
 2023 and orders were reserved, to be pronounced today. 3. Mr. Saikrishna Rajagopal argued on behalf of the plaintiffs and
 Mr. Kshitij Sharada and Mr. Rajat Aneja argued on behalf of the
 applicant-defendants. 4. Issue 1, as drawn, has specifically to be decided only with
 reference to "the suit as framed". What has to be seen, therefore, is
 the plaint, and what is pleaded therein. 5. The Plaint

 5.1 The case that the plaintiffs have sought to set up in the plaint
 may be summarised as under. 5.2 Plaintiff 2 is a wholly owned subsidiary of Plaintiff 1. The
 plaintiffs sell Ayurveda related products. Defendants 1 and 2 are
 former employees of the plaintiffs. After leaving the plaintiffs, they Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 2 of 33 16:36:54 are carrying on business under the title of "Adya Ayurveda",
 impleaded as Defendant 3. 5.3 During the time of their employment with the plaintiffs,
 Defendants 1 and 2 had access to confidential data of the plaintiffs.
 After leaving the plaintiffs, it is alleged that Defendants 1 and 2 are
 using the said information to sell competing products under the brand
 of Defendant 3. It is also alleged that Defendants 1 and 2 are using
 the customer database of the plaintiffs to solicit their customers. 84%
 of the customers of Defendants 1 and 2 are stated to be erstwhile
 customers of the plaintiffs. It is further alleged that Defendants 1 and
 2 are using marketing material developed and owned by the plaintiffs.
 The plaint further asserts that, on Defendant 1's website
 www.adyayurveda.com, Defendant 1 has copy pasted content from
 the plaintiffs' website, over which the plaintiffs own copyright. 5.4 The customer database of the plaintiffs is stated to be among its
 most invaluable copyrighted data, which the defendants have
 purloined. It is asserted that the customer data has immense economic
 value, and that each parameter of the data can be further utilised to
 predict and identify potential customers, which in turn would reduce
 the advertisement costs for further customer acquisition. The
 defendants are also alleged to be using the trade dress of the plaintiffs
 so as to create confusion. 5.5 The plaint has set out, in detail, the manner in which the
 plaintiffs "niche customer database" works. It is asserted that, in Signature Not Verified developing the database, and the software for its operation, the Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 3 of 33 16:36:54
 plaintiffs have expended over ₹ 28 crores during the period 2014 to
 2018. It is further asserted that, each time a customer purchases a
 product, or signs up for content on the plaintiffs' website, she, or he,
 provides valuable personal data, the protection of which is the
 plaintiffs' responsibility. The data is retained by the plaintiffs in
 accordance with its Privacy Policy, which is made available to the
 concerned customer. 5.6 The plaintiffs have, therefore, developed proprietary statistical
 techniques, database and software. The manner in which these work
 have been developed is also explained, in detail, in paras 15 and 16 of
 the plaint. 5.7 As such, asserts the plaint in para 17, the customer database, the
 business and trade techniques of the plaintiffs, its marketing and sales
 content, advertising strategies and other information all constitute
 confidential and proprietary information of the plaintiffs, in which
 copyright subsists. 5.8 Given the nature of the present challenge, it is necessary to
 reproduce, in extenso, the relevant assertions in the plaint on the above
 issues, thus: "6. During the course of their employment, the Defendant No.
 1 and 2 had access to confidential and proprietary information that
 belongs to the Plaintiffs. The information includes customer
 databases, marketing material, copyrighted content and online
 advertising techniques, all of which was obtained and created by
 the Plaintiff over the past 5 years at a huge cost, and after
 application of skill and judgment. The Defendant No. 1 and 2 were
 using this information to sell products under the brand 'Adya
 Ayurveda', i.e., the Defendant No. 3. The Defendants are using the Signature Not Verified Plaintiff's customer data to target the very same customers that the Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 4 of 33 16:36:54 Plaintiff has transacted with and built a business relationship with
 over a period of about 5 years. The Defendants for this purpose
 are using marketing material that was developed by and is owned
 by the Plaintiff. This material is being used in marketing emails
 and on the 1st Defendant's Website, www.adyayurveda.com. The
 Defendants No. 1 & 2 copy-pasted Plaintiffs content and used that
 for marketing products of Defendant No.3 under the brand name of
 the Defendant No. 3 in the e-mails sent by the Defendants
 addressed to the clients of the Plaintiffs in order to induce such
 clients to purchase the said products of the Defendant No.3, to the
 detriment of the Plaintiff, and with the intent of unjust enrichment
 of the Defendants. The fact that this is a slavish attempt at passing
 off the products of the Plaintiffs is demonstrated by the Defendants
 using of creative copyrighted material of the Plaintiff. The
 Plaintiffs also have legitimate reason to believe that the
 Defendants have been in possession of the entire database till at
 least April 2018. Moreover, a comparison of the pop-ups enabled
 through the beeketing application/ plug-in containing details of
 customers who appear to have bought products from the Defendant
 No.3, as viewed on the website of the Defendant No.3 with the
 actual list of customers of the Plaintiffs showed a match of upto
 84% of such customers. The Plaintiffs accordingly have very
 strong reasons to believe that the persons to whom the Defendant
 No.3 has sold its products are the customers of the Plaintiffs, and
 that such sale has occasioned on account of theft of the customer
 database by the Defendants No.l and 2.- The Defendants purposely
 copy pasted material that belonged to the Plaintiffs in which the
 Plaintiff No. 1 had copyright, in order to create confusion in the
 mind of the Plaintiffs' customers, while selling the products of the
 Defendant No.3, which is evident from the documents, and
 transcripts of customer calls filed along with the Plaint, and is not
 repeated herein for the sake of brevity. Such information as to the
 details of customers of the Defendant No.3 would be available to
 the Defendant No.l, and the Defendant No.l is called upon to
 indicate such details to this Hon'ble Court. It is highly suspicious
 that more than 84% of the customers of the Defendant No.3, as
 displayed on the beeketing application, match the list of customers
 of the Plaintiffs. Such a high co-relation only further lends
 credence to the fact that the Defendants had access to, had obtained
 illegally, and had used, the confidential proprietary customer
 database of the Plaintiffs. Pertinently, the reason why the Plaintiffs
 also ought to be compensated for such unauthorized use of
 database of customers living in countries outside India is on
 account of possible liabilities that may arise out of use of such
 details in a manner that has not been authorized by the person who
 has provided to the Plaintiffs his or her personal details. Moreover,
 such personal data is provided to the Plaintiffs by its customers as Signature Not Verified the end result of its unique business process/strategy/method. This Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 5 of 33 16:36:54 is explained in detail in the succeeding paragraphs. Such data has
 enormous economic value, as also has immense potential to benefit
 a company engaged in a similar business as the Plaintiffs. Such
 immense potential is on account of not just a direct list of
 customers, but the ability to utilize each parameter of data relating
 to such customers to further predict/identify potential customers,
 thereby significantly reducing the advertising costs for further
 customer acquisition. In the present case, the Defendants No.l & 2
 have not just accessed such data on account of their employment
 with the Plaintiffs, but have actually been provided access by the
 Plaintiff. This is to say that every employee does not automatically
 by virtue of being employed with the Plaintiffs know details of
 customers/potential customers, but such employee only comes into
 possession of customer data upon specific authorization, or at times
 through concerted actions for such access. The Defendant No. 1
 copy-pasted Plaintiffs content and used that for marketing in its
 emails. It is submitted that the Defendant No. 1 purposely copy
 pasted material that belonged to the Plaintiff No.l in which the
 Plaintiff No.l had copyright, and used the trade dress of products
 of the Plaintiff No.l while selling products of the Defendant No.3 in
 order to create confusion in the mind of Plaintiffs customers which
 is evidenced in the Suit and is not repeated herein for the sake of
 brevity. Such information as to the details of customers of the
 Defendant No. 3 would be available to the Defendant No.l, and the
 Defendant No.l is called upon to indicate such details to this
 Hon'ble Court. It is highly suspicious that more than 84% of the
 customers of the Defendant No.3, as displayed on the beeketing
 application, match the list of customers of the Plaintiff No.l. Such a
 high co-relation only further lends credence to the fact that the
 Defendant No. 1 had access to, had obtained illegally, and had
 used, the confidential proprietary customer database of the Plaintiff
 No.l. Pertinently, the reason why the Plaintiff No. 1 also ought to
 be compensated for such unauthorized use of database of
 customers living in countries outside India is on account of
 possible liabilities that may arise out of use of such details in a
 manner that has not been authorized by the person who has handed
 over his or her personal details. Moreover, such personal data is
 provided to the Plaintiffs by its customers as the end result of its
 unique business process/strategy/method. This is explained in
 detail in the succeeding paragraphs. Such data has enormous
 economic value, as also has immense potential to benefit a
 company engaged in a similar business as the Plaintiffs. Such
 immense potential is on account of not just a direct list of
 customers, but the ability to utilize each parameter of data relating
 to such customers to further predict/identify potential customers,
 thereby significantly reducing the advertising costs for further
 customer acquisition. In the present case, the Defendants No.1 & 2 Signature Not Verified have not just accessed such data on account of their employment Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 6 of 33 16:36:54 with the Plaintiffs, but have actually been provided access by the
 Plaintiff. This is to say that every employee does not automatically
 by virtue of being employed with the Plaintiffs know details of
 customers /potential customers, but such employee only comes into
 possession of customer data upon specific authorization, or at
 times through concerted actions for such access. ***** 11. The business model of the Company is unique inasmuch as
 it sells Ayurveda related products and courses using only online
 platforms to consumers primarily located outside India. It sells the
 products only on its own website/domain http: /
 /theavurvedaexperience.com/ which is run via Shopify, a web
 based ecommerce store. For this purpose, the Plaintiff herein had
 made large monetary investments on various online platforms
 including the social networking site Facebook, in order to target a
 range of customized set of individuals, who would then be shown
 specific advertisements tailormade for that category of individuals,
 in order to then induce such individuals to click on advertisements,
 thereby leading to the website of the Plaintiff, in which such
 individual would voluntarily provide details to the Plaintiffs, if s/he
 chooses to purchase the product. Such data was provided to the
 Plaintiffs voluntarily and with the conscious knowledge that the
 sharing of such information was protected by terms and conditions
 available on the website of the Plaintiffs, particularly the privacy
 policy, the Plaintiffs proposed to adopt. Therefore, any proposed
 violation could open the Plaintiffs to potential harm including, but
 not limited to legal recourse against the Plaintiffs. Such details
 were parted with by the individuals/ proposed customers in line
 with the privacy policy available on the website of the Plaintiffs,
 and any violation of such policy/unauthorized access / use of data
 could lead to potential harm. As such, the Plaintiffs obtained and
 established a niche customer database, which in itself has
 enormous spring-boarding effect. The decision to undertake
 expenditure to obtain details of a particular kind of audience who
 is then targeted, is premised upon in-depth analytical research
 conducted by the Plaintiffs in order to ensure that marketing is
 only done for audiences who become profitable in the long term.
 Upon establishing its target audience, the Plaintiffs spend capital
 to be able to obtain access to such target audience through
 websites such as Facebook. The Plaintiff then uses engaging and
 innovative advertisements developed using skill and judgment,
 which are also tailor-made for different categories of such target
 audiences, in order to ensure a higher click to conversion rate. For
 instance, a lady who is in her fifties and who enjoys Starbucks
 coffee would be shown a specific set of catchwords, with a specific Signature Not Verified set of products advertised, as opposed to a young lady who likes Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 7 of 33 16:36:54 going to Fitness First gymnasiums. Such customers are then
 induced to click on the advertisement that leads to the website of
 the Plaintiffs, showcased the appropriate products (which may be
 most relevant to them) through copyrighted creative content,
 subsequent to which they voluntarily provide their personal
 information, while purchasing the product. Such personal
 information includes data such as their names, e-mail addresses,
 home/office address, and phone numbers. It is pertinent to note
 that each product has a different set of copyrighted creatives, and
 in many cases audiences used to promote such product. Both such
 creatives and selection of specific audiences are continuously
 optimized by a team of professionals employed by the Plaintiffs, to
 achieve the most optimal return on advertising spend/ reduce
 customer acquisition cost, and therefore requires application of
 significant skill and judgment for adapting strategy and operations
 to such processes which are. constantly evolving. The copyrighted
 customer data received post the completion of several manual and
 online creative processes developed over a substantial period of
 time is only generated upon the customer undertaking a purchase
 transaction. As such, the Plaintiffs only obtain the information
 after twice exercising their unique skill, judgment, and substantial
 statistical research - first to decide which persons to show
 advertisements to; and second to design specific advertisements for
 a specific product for such persons, which would then induce them
 to visit the webpage of such chosen product on the website of the
 Plaintiff. Lastly, the website of the Plaintiff No. 1 also contains
 copyrighted material which then sets the pitch for proposed
 customers to and make a purchase decision, and thereby provide
 the above-mentioned data to the Plaintiffs. Such development of
 material, including the database of customers is not just on the
 basis of labour or capital having been expended, but is clearly the
 result of skill and judgment of the Director and certain other
 employees of the Plaintiffs, which cannot be characterized as
 purely mechanical. Moreover, taking several granular advertising
 investment decisions on the basis of the cookie-data, and other
 analytical data obtained by the Plaintiff is also a part of its
 sophisticated marketing methods. In this regard, the Plaintiffs have
 invested substantial capital, labour, and time in order to test over
 1900 such audiences to perfect their ability to predict fruitful
 advertising targets. It has come to the knowledge of the Plaintiff
 that the Defendant Nos. 1 & 2 through the Defendant No.3 have
 been illegally spamming the customers of the Plaintiffs. It is on
 account of trying to reach the appropriate targeted markets/
 customers that the Plaintiff expends huge expenditure to obtain a
 targeted database. However, by accessing, and stealing such
 customer database of the Plaintiff No. 1 in a wholly unauthorized
 and illegal manner, the Defendants No.l and 2 have obtained a Signature Not Verified ready database of customers who are demonstrably interested in Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 8 of 33 16:36:54 Ayurveda products without having to spend any amount of money,
 and without exercising even a modicum of skill and judgment.
 Further, the Plaintiffs have spent over Rs. 28 Crore (Rupees
 Twenty-Eight Crore only) in order to obtain information which
 is/has been being illegally used by the Defendants Nd.l and 3. ***** 14. Over a period of time, due to the enormous resources that
 have been put in by the Plaintiff, 499,500 subscribers have signed
 up for free content on the Plaintiffs website, 17,935 persons have
 bought courses from the Plaintiff and the Plaintiff has shipped
 142,635 products to 88,798 customers. Each time a consumer
 makes a purchase or signs up for content, the consumer provides
 personal data to the Plaintiff. This database is thereafter the
 responsibility of the Plaintiff (and its employees) and is used by it
 solely in accordance with its Privacy Policy that is made available
 to the consumer. The Plaintiff has a fiduciary duty towards its
 customers. The names of these customers, their email addresses,
 mailing addresses, phone numbers and other data relating to these
 customers is the confidential information of the Plaintiff. 15. The data that is obtained by the Plaintiff includes customer
 email addresses, home addresses and phone numbers. In
 accordance with its Privacy policy, the Plaintiff reaches out to its
 existing customers/subscribers with new products and offerings.
 The Plaintiff, in accordance with its privacy policy, invests
 substantial skill, time and effort in analysing the data it collects so
 as to further refine its advertising strategy. Over a period of time,
 the Plaintiff has developed an expertise in identifying customer
 groups who may "be interested in its products and thereafter
 expends its resources on advertising to these specific customer
 groups. It is this strategy that has contributed to the significant
 growth of the Plaintiff over a period of 4 years. Through resources
 spent on advertising, the Plaintiff has been able to compile a
 significant database of customers who are interested in Ayurvedic
 products and also on the specific categories of products that
 specific customers are interested in. In a short period of time the
 Plaintiff has been able to compile large database of
 subscribers/customers, with information as to their
 interests/preferences, for the reason that the Plaintiff has
 developed proprietary statistical techniques, databases and
 software that has resulted in a greater conversion rates of persons
 who have seen and clicked on the Plaintiffs advertisements and
 those who have eventually gone on to subscribe to the Plaintiffs
 website or buy a product from the Plaintiff. The Plaintiffs have for
 the convenience of this Hon'ble Court indicated in a tabular Signature Not Verified format, along with examples the manner in which Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 9 of 33 16:36:54 cookies/pixels/digital footprint of a customer is used to identify
 target group, allowing the Plaintiffs to analyse the data, and
 thereafter employ targeted advertising post such analysis on
 relevant audiences. It is this final culmination of data, that is the
 information pertaining to the customer and other particulars such
 as age range, address, location etc. which is the data generated in
 respect of these specific processes, in which the Plaintiffs have a
 copyright. An illustrative chart is provided hereinbelow in order to
 explain in a simple manner the business of the Plaintiffs. Google & YouTube, maintain trackers i.e. cookies/pixels in
 addition to some websites such as the one the Plaintiff
 owns. 16:36:54
 ii. Such media platforms collect and maintain data on
 the activity Conducted by an individual on the platform by
 using the App (Application) on mobile devices or Signature Not Verified computers. Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 12 of 33 16:36:54 B. ANALYSES OF DATA COLLECTED

 iii. While the numbers of variables assessed across
 platforms differ, and such data is highly complex,
 for the purposes of understanding, a simplistic
 example is provided hereunder: - found to also have an interest in Organic Food; and

 d. While 4 from the original 20 are found to
 also have an interest in Tennis

 iv. The unique and specialized input and knowledge of
 the Directors and some officers of the Company lies in their
 ability to analyse and to determine which customer to
 target. For instance, an analysis of the above data could
 indicate that a person interested in Dogs is more likely to
 purchase Golf Accessories than a person interested in
 Organic Food, and a person who likes Organic Food is
 more likely to have an interest in Golf Accessories, than a
 person having an interest in Tennis. v. Such analysis also varies according to the data set in
 terms of the number of persons analysed. vi. A person may bid a dollar value on any such
 categories. A larger audience allows for a more specific
 correlation. For instance, a person who likes Oprah
 Winfrey, may also be more likely to like Ayurveda
 products than a person interested in Walmart. vii. Accordingly, a person can reduce his prospective
 cost of acquisition of targets and consequently for the same
 dollar spent have a higher return. It is here that the skill and
 judgment of the Directors and certain officers of the
 Plaintiff comes into play, along with the importance of their
 copyrighted content and advertisements that are used across Signature Not Verified such target audiences. (The Plaintiff had tested more than Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 13 of 33 16:36:54 500 permutations and combinations of ad creatives till
 April 2018)

 viii. This requires constant work to analyse the best
 platform/audiences/degree of engagement of customers to
 show advertisements, as well scale bids and budgets, i.e. to
 take calls as to when to upscale/downscale or stop
 advertising to each category of audience. Based on inputs
 generated from such advertising space, targeted ads and
 marketing strategies are adopted. copywriters and designers of the Plaintiff, on the direction
 of some Directors and Senior Employees of the Plaintiff.
 Such Ads and Sales pages are created by designers who
 work with copywriters creating content specifically for
 digital marketing. The authors of all such content, are all
 employees or contractors of the company, and any data
 generated as a result thereof including the rights therein
 are owned by the Plaintiff No. 1. All such persons have
 entered into copyright assignment contracts with the
 Plaintiff, thereby the Plaintiff possess copyright of such
 material. The process adopted by the Plaintiffs for the
 products requires constant monitoring, and evaluation by
 the Plaintiffs. During such process the Plaintiffs must keep
 in mind the requirement of each product, and more
 importantly of the customers, as well as various market
 factors amongst other things. x. Constant assessment is also required in terms of the
 clicks/ website visits gained for each of the advertisements
 designed, and which of these advertisements leads to the
 highest percentage of website visits from the number of
 advertisement impressions shown, and thereafter
 assessment is further required to judge exactly which visits
 from which advertisements, and audiences eventually leads
 to the maximum amount of purchases by customers. xi. For instance, an 80-year-old prospective customer in
 the targeted group may receive a different form of
 advertisement as opposed to a 25-year old prospective
 customer. It is here that the content of the advertisement, its
 attractiveness, and its ability to resonate with the target
 group matters. The high conversion rate of the Plaintiff
 comes from its superior advertising and marketing content, Signature Not Verified which is all subject to copyright. Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 14 of 33 16:36:54 xii. The decision of scaling/stopping ads is based on the
 following factors, which the Company trains its teams to
 judge: a. CTR (Click Through Rate), signals the
 number of people who clicked on the add and went
 to the website. Fluctuates based on relevance of the
 creative to the specific audience. etc.), all cumulate into a Relevance score of the
 advertisement in addition to other variables. d. CPM: Cost per thousand impressions shown
 to the audience, which the Advertiser charges. self-developed Cookie System. (This includes
 information about from where the customer came to
 the Plaintiff for the very first time. The Plaintiff has
 its own system to track this, which plays a critical
 role in helping analyse where to target in the future.
 This has helped the Plaintiffs establish the
 audiences which are the first initiators of interest,
 which is critically important in an area like
 Ayurveda in the USA, which is still relatively
 unknown.)

 g. Last Click Attribution; this is the commonly
 provided attribution from most online platforms.
 This defines which was the last platform from
 which a click was received/ from where a consumer
 arrived at a website before making a purchase. h. Conversion rate of click to sale- influenced/heavily defined by the Plaintiffs literary
 copyright in the content in advertisements creatives
 and on the sales page. D. ACQUIRING CUSTOMER DATABASE

 xiii. Courses and Products are also developed based on
 such interests. The Plaintiff has 'a one stop portal' for all
 things Ayurveda where interested consumers can sign up
 for free content, purchase courses, products and become
 members of the Ayurveda Experience

 xiv. The Plaintiff is able to obtain personal details of the
 customers (Name, Phone Number, Address, e-mail address)
 only after the customers themselves provide the data when
 purchasing such item /enrolling to a course. Such data is
 provided by such customers on the website of the Plaintiffs.
 Accordingly, such customers who voluntarily provide their
 contact/address/ telephone-number/e-mail address do so on
 the basis of the extant privacy policy. xv. The customer list is built upon only after going
 through all or most of the above steps. It may be noted that
 no such data is publicly available, and such information is
 provided to the Plaintiff voluntarily by prospective
 customers, which is subject to the privacy policy of the
 Plaintiff; a. Analysis by the Plaintiffs of all the data they
 have on their consumers, and making correlations
 between different audiences, based on the past
 return on advertising investments on them. b. Analysing and selecting a target audience
 based on research conducted in point (a) above. Plaintiff and the active decision to provide customer
 data. At such time the Plaintiff undertakes to protect
 such data in terms of its privacy policy. E. FURTHER USE OF DATABASE OBTAINED

 xvi. The Plaintiff thereafter is able to create a refined
 database in accordance with, the privacy policy which
 allows the Plaintiffs to reach out to existing customers with
 new products etc. by: - a. Directly e-mailing such customers

 b. Using customer database to selectively target
 customers through showing such customers
 advertisements on Social Media as Facebook,
 Instagram, YouTube. Showcasing Advertisements
 to such previous buyers as detailed below in points c
 and d is highly lucrative showcasing the business/
 commercial value of the customer database. c. Retargeting an existing customer also
 generates on average 80% more revenue per dollar
 spent than retargeting a prospective customer. In a
 12-month period prior to filing of the plaint the
 Plaintiffs were able to, generate USD 7,00,000 from
 advertising/reaching out to existing customers
 through Facebook/Google,

 d. Taking a modest USD to INR conversion
 rate of 65 INR to one USD that would amount to in
 excess of INR 4.5 Crore. Accordingly, the customer database of the Plaintiff is
 obtained through far more than just capital and labour, but
 is based on skill and judgment, and specialized knowledge
 of the Director and certain officers of the Plaintiff.
 Therefore, the fact that customer details are generated only
 once all the above-mentioned processes are completed
 would directly indicate such data is a culmination of skill,
 judgment, specialised knowledge, and training, provided by
 directors such as Mr. Rishabh Chopra, among others,
 which came from manual as also digital processes
 developed over a sustained period of time, would show that Signature Not Verified such data is protected by copyright." Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 17 of 33 16:36:54 5.9 Defendants 1 and 2 were employed with Plaintiff 1 on 18 July
 2016 and 1 May 2016 respectively. They executed agreements with
 Plaintiff 1, which obligated them not to share, with any third party, the
 confidential information of the plaintiffs, during or after the tenure of
 their engagement with the plaintiff. The agreements also contain
 clauses which forbade Defendants 1 and 2 from entering into any
 business which would compete with the business of Plaintiff 1 and
 from soliciting the clients or employees of Plaintiff 1, after the
 cessation of their employment with the plaintiffs. It was alleged that,
 in breach of their obligations, Defendant 1 and 2 had engaged in large-
 scale infringement of the plaintiffs' trade secrets, copyright and trade
 dress, after they had left the services of Plaintiff 1. The plaint averred
 that, in April 2018, Plaintiff 1 received emails advertising "Adya
 Ayurveda" products, which mirrored the content created for the
 plaintiffs' products. The get up and design of the website of
 Defendants 1 and 2 was also alleged to be similar to that of the
 plaintiffs' website. The description of some of the products on the
 "Adya Ayurveda" website of Defendant 3 was found to be identical to
 the description of corresponding products of the plaintiffs, or largely
 similar. For example, the description of five of the ingredients in
 "Adya Ayurveda Kumudini Oil" was found to be identical to the
 description of corresponding ingredients in the plaintiffs "iYURA
 Kesaradi Oil". Thus, alleged the plaint in para-32, Defendants 1 and 2
 not only copied content, style and purloined the plaintiffs' proprietary
 digital marketing information, but also used/stole the plaintiffs
 customer database. 5.10 Predicated on these allegations, the plaint seeks the following
 reliefs: 6. The decision in Navigators Logistics1

 6.1 The plaintiff in Navigators Logistics ("NL" hereinafter) was
 one; the defendants 12. 8 of the defendants were former employees of
 NL and were, therefore, privy to NL's confidential information. As in
 the present case, the employment contracts of the eight defendants
 with NL contained non-compete and non-soliciting covenants. All
 eight defendants resigned between 9 May 2016 and 25 May 2016.
 Data recovery, undertaken on the defendant's laptops after they had
 resigned revealed that they had hatched a conspiracy to use the
 confidential data information and trade secrets of the plaintiff to its
 detriment and to further their own business interests. It was also seen
 that the defendants had conspired to divert the existing business of the
 plaintiff to Defendant 12 and that, in the process, confidential
 information, which had come into the position of Defendants 1 to 8
 during their employment with the plaintiff, was forwarded to
 Defendants 9 to 11. In these circumstances, NL sued the defendants,
 seeking reliefs which are more or less similar to those sought by the
 present plaintiffs before this Court. 6.2 This Court, speaking through a learned Single Judge (Endlaw,
 J.), observed, before venturing into the factual ticket, that if a
 meaningful reading of the plaint did not disclose any right to sue, or
 disclosed that the plaint was barred by law or that the plaintiff had no
 chance of success, it was the duty of the Court to ensure that such a
 proceeding be not allowed to burden the Court docket, and effectively
 to nip it in the bud. The Court proceeded, thereafter, to reproduce
 para 5 of the plaint before it, in which the plaintiff claimed rights in
 "all the confidential data, customer database, accounts information,
 airway drawings, airway bills templates, plans, reports, taxes and
 other financial information, process, financial/administrative and/or
 organizational information as well as transactions based templates and
 internal notings and trade secrets of the plaintiff company".
 Thereafter, in paras 21 and 22, the judgment proceeds thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 Thus, the Court restricted the sphere of its examination, regarding the
 maintainability of the suit, on the premise that what was essentially
 sought to be protected, and in which copyright was claimed, was the
 clients' list of the plaintiff NL. To make this matter clear, Endlaw, J.,
 in characteristically inimitable plainspeak, observed thus in para 28: 6.3 The judgment proceeds, thereafter, to allude to the decision of
 the Supreme Court in Eastern Book Company v. D.B. Modak2 , to
 observe that a modicum of creativity, skill and judgment is necessary
 for a valid claim to copyright. The learned Judge proceeds, thereafter,
 to refer to his own earlier decision in Tech Plus Media Pvt Ltd v.
 Jyoti Janda3 , in paras 30 and 31 of the judgment, thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 6.4 The judgment proceeds, thereafter, to invoke Section 13(2) 4 of
 the Copyright Act, 1957, in conjunction with Section 17(c) 5 thereof.
 These provisions, according to the learned Judge, required the author
 of the literary work in which copyright is asserted to be identified in
 the plaint. As NL had not identified the author of the clients list, the
 decision holds that, even for that reason alone, there could be no
 copyright in NL therein. 6.5 Thus, holds the judgment in para 36, "the reliefs claimed by the
 plaintiff on the basis of copyright does have no chance of success in
 the suit and the plaint is liable to be rejected insofar as on the premise
 of copyright." 4 13. Works in which copyright subsists. - *****
 (2) Copyright shall not subsist in any work specified in sub-section (1), other than a work to
 which the provisions of Section 40 or Section 41 apply, unless, - (i) in the case of a published work, the work is first published in India, or where
 the work is first published outside India, the author is at the date of such publication, or in
 a case where the author was dead at that date, was at the time of his death, a citizen of
 India; (ii) in the case of an unpublished work other than a work of architecture, the author
 is at the date of making of the work a citizen of India or domiciled in India; and (iii) in the case of a work of architecture, the work is located in India.
 Explanation.--In the case of a work of joint authorship, the conditions conferring copyright
 specified in this sub-section shall be satisfied by all the authors of the work.
 5 17. First owner of copyright.-- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the author of a work shall be
 the first owner of the copyright therein: 16:36:54
 6.6 Paras 39, 41 and 42 of the judgment proceed, thereafter, to
 observe as under: (Emphasis supplied)

 6.7 Thereafter, in para 48, the judgment further notes that NL had
 not pleaded that the defendants were privy to the trade secrets or such
 other matters, for which reason, too, no case to injunct the defendants
 from diverging such trade secrets could be said to exist: 6.8 Finally, the Court, relying on Niranjan Shankar Golikari v.
 Century Spinning & Manufacturing Co. Ltd6 , Superintendence
 Company of India (P) Ltd v. Krishan Murgai7 and Percept D'Mark

 6 AIR 1967 SC 1098 Signature Not Verified 7 (1981) 2 SCC 246 Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 25 of 33 16:36:54
 ( India) (P) Ltd v. Zaheer Khan8 , held that the non-compete clause in
 the employment agreement of the defendants was void and
 unenforceable in law. As such, no injunction would be granted on the
 basis of the said clause. 6.9 Premised on these findings, this Court, speaking through
 Endlaw J., sitting singly, held the suit, instituted by NL, to be devoid
 of any cause of action and, therefore dismissed the suit. 7. Before proceeding to examine Issue 1, framed in the present
 case, on merits, in the light of the decision in Navigators Logistics1, it
 has to be noted that , in that case , Endlaw, J. found none of the pleas
 advanced in the suit to be making out a cause of action, as could
 sustain a prayer for injunction. To wit, it was found that (i) though
 copyright had been asserted in various documents, no particulars were
 forthcoming in respect of any of the said documents, except the list of
 customers/clients of NL, (ii) a list of customers/clients, drawn up
 without any element of creativity, and which had no
 economic/business/commercial value, could not be regarded as
 confidential or partaking of the character of a trade secret, as the
 details of the clients were available in the public domain and could
 even be sourced from the telephone directory, (iii) sans any element of
 creativity or commercial value, such a client/customer list could not
 be subject matter of copyright, (iv) the author of the said list was also
 not identified, which was a sine qua non for claiming copyright
 therein, (v) NL had not pleaded that the defendants were privy to the
 trade secrets and (vi) the non-compete clause in the employment Signature Not Verified 8 (2006) 4 SCC 227 Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 26 of 33 16:36:54
 contracts, that NL sought to enforce, was not enforceable at law, as it
 amounted to a covenant in restraint of trade. As, therefore, none of
 the grievances of NL birthed a cause of action, which could translate
 into an injunction, the suit was dismissed. 8. Why this aspect assumes importance is because the exercise
 carried out by the learned Single Judge in Navigators Logistics1 is
 essentially relatable to Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ), which is the only provision under which,
 without trial, a suit can be dismissed. A suit can also be dismissed at
 the instance of the defendant under Order XII Rule 6, on the basis of
 admissions by the plaintiff but, even in such a case, ordinarily the
 dismissal would be under Order XII Rule 6 read with Order VII Rule 11. The only other provision under which a suit can be guillotined
 even before trial is Order VII Rule 10, where the Court has no
 jurisdiction to adjudicate on the suit, in which case the plaint would
 have to be returned for presentation before the proper forum. In all
 other cases, bar none, a suit has to proceed to trial. 9. It is equally well-settled that, under Order VII Rule 11, the
 plaint cannot be rejected in part. It has either to be rejected as a
 whole, or has to proceed to trial. This position of law stands
 enunciated in several decisions of the Supreme Court, including Sejal
 Glass Ltd. v. Navilan Merchants P Ltd9 , Madhav Prasad Aggarwal
 v. Axis Bank Ltd10 and, most recently, Bhim Rao Baswanath Rao
 Patil v. Madan Mohan Rao11 . In Navigators Logistics1, this Court

 9 (2018) 11 SCC 780
 10 (2019) 7 SCC 158 Signature Not Verified 11 2023 SCC OnLine SC 871 Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 27 of 33 16:36:54
 found that no sustainable cause of action, on the basis of which the
 prayers in the suit could be granted, arose out of any of the grievances
 raised by the plaintiff. Had this Court found, on the other hand, that
 even one of the said grievances gave rise to a triable cause of action,
 the suit could not have been dismissed, and would have had to
 proceed to trial as a whole. 10. Rival Submissions

 10.1 Arguments before me, in this case, were brief. Mr. Kshitij
 Sharda and Mr. Rajat Aneja, arguing for the defendants-applicants,
 submitted that the case was fully covered by Navigators Logistics1.
 The findings, in Navigators Logistics1, on the vagueness of the
 assertions in the plaint with respect to all of the documents/data,
 except the client/customer list, in respect of which copyright was
 being claimed, it is submitted, apply mutatis mutandis to the present
 case. Mr. Sharda sought to submit that, though prayer (a) in the suit
 sought injunction in respect of "any confidential information, trade
 secrets or any other information pertaining to the business and
 operations of the Plaintiffs Company", the only confidential
 information, in respect of which protection was sought, as per the
 averment in the plaint, was the plaintiffs' client/customer list, as was
 the case in Navigators Logistics1. He has drawn my attention to the
 fact that the plaintiffs had sought to submit the confidential
 information in a pen drive and has, in that context, referred to in para
 2 of order dated 11 May 2018 and paras 19, 25 and 26 of order dated
 17 July 2019, passed by this Court in the present proceedings. Para 2 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed of the order dated 11 May 2018 reads thus: Paras 19, 25 and 26 of the subsequent order dated 17 July 2019 read
 thus: 10.2 Mr. Sharda further submits that the plaint was devoid of any
 particulars on the basis of which a finding of infringement of
 copyright could be returned by the Court. The entire case, he submits,
 is purely speculative in nature, based on a search of the defendants'
 website. 10.3 Supplementing the submissions of Mr. Sharda, Mr. Aneja Signature Not Verified submits that a meaningful reading of the plaint in the present case Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 29 of 33 16:36:54
 discloses no triable cause of action. As such, he submits that,
 applying Navigators Logistics1, the suit is liable to be dismissed, by
 deciding Issue 1 in favour of the defendants and against the plaintiffs. 10.4 Responding to the submissions of Mr. Sharda and Mr. Aneja,
 Mr. Rajagopal, learned Counsel for the plaintiffs submits that the
 decision in Navigators Logistics1, in fact, supports the case of the
 plaintiffs rather than that of the defendants. While staunchly refuting
 the submission of Mr. Sharda that copyright was claimed, in the
 present case, only in respect of the client/customer list of the
 plaintiffs, Mr. Rajagopal submits that even if, arguendo, it were to be
 so assumed, the present plaintiffs would nonetheless be eligible to
 proceed to trial even applying the decision in Navigators Logistics1.
 He submits that, in Navigators Logistics1, this Court found the
 clients/customers list, in respect of which copyright was being played
 by NL, to be incapable of being subject matter of copyright, as no
 element of creativity had been pleaded to have gone into the creation
 of the said list, and the list was not shown to be possessing any
 economic or business value. In the present case, Mr. Rajagopal
 submits that there are detailed assertions in the plaint regarding the
 manner in which the customers list had been prepared and operated,
 including the assertion that, in preparing the list, expenses of ₹ 28
 crores had been borne by the plaintiffs. Equally, the assertions in the
 plaint, he submits, clearly indicate that the list had deep and pervasive
 economic value for the plaintiffs, unlike the list which forms subject
 matter of consideration in Navigators Logistics1. In fact, he submits
 that the plaintiffs have specifically alleged, in the plaint, that Signature Not Verified Defendants 1 and 2 were using the copyrighted information of the Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 30 of 33 16:36:54
 plaintiffs to sell products under the brand of Defendant 3, which itself
 vouchsafed its commercial value. As such, submits Mr. Rajagopal,
 the present suit cannot be said to be devoid of any cause of action, as
 would justify its decapitation without a trial, as was the sorry fate of
 Navigators Logistics1. Analysis 11. No detailed analysis is required. The assertions in the plaint in
 the present case clearly distinguish it from the plaint in Navigators
 Logistics1. Issue 1, as framed, is to be decided solely by reference to
 the plaint. That, in any case, is also the well settled remit of Order VII
 Rule 11 of the CPC 12. 12. The passages from the plaint, extracted in para 5.8 supra,
 clearly underscore the painstaking manner in which the plaintiffs
 developed its entire confidential data base, of which the customer list
 is but a part. There are detailed averments and assertions which bear
 out the great deal of technical expertise, inventiveness and creativity
 which has gone into the generation of the customers list. To equate
 the present case with Navigators Logistics1 would, therefore, be to
 equate chalk and cheese. It is also clear, from these passages as well
 as other paras in the plaint, that the "confidential information", with
 respect to which protection is sought in the plaint, is not limited to
 client/customer lists, but involves a great deal of additional material,
 including material which is alleged to have been copy pasted from the Signature Not Verified 12 Refer Allied Blenders & Distillers v. R.K. Distilleries , (2017) 69 PTC 493 (DB) Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 31 of 33 16:36:54
 plaintiffs' website onto the defendants' website so as to confuse
 clients. 13. Significantly, in Navigators Logistics1, the Court relied on the
 report of local commissioners who had visited the premises of the
 defendants and clarified that, barring client/customer lists, there was
 no other material pertaining to the plaintiffs with the defendants. No
 such report, of any local commissioners, is forthcoming in the present
 case. Even otherwise, I must confess, with greatest respect, my
 reservation to the reliance placed by this Court, in Navigators
 Logistics1, on local commissioners' reports. The Court was , in that
 case , exercising jurisdiction effectively under Order VII Rule 11 of
 the CPC . It could not, therefore, have looked at material outside the
 plaint filed by the plaintiff. Perhaps, therefore, the reliance, by the
 Court, on the local commissioners' reports was not entirely apposite. 14. The prayers, in the plaint, for an injunction against the
 defendants dealing with the plaintiffs' confidential information, and
 the claim of copyright therein cannot, therefore, be said to disclose no
 cause of action, as would justify the suit proceeding to trial. Nor can
 they be said to be so vague and inexact in particulars that no trial,
 based on such pleadings, would be possible, as was found in
 Navigators Logistics1. 15. Once a triable issue is found to exist, the suit cannot be
 dismissed at the outset, as was done in Navigators Logistics1. It has
 to proceed to trial. 16. Issue 1 is, therefore, decided in the affirmative, in favour of the
 plaintiffs and against the defendants. CS(COMM) 817/2018 17. Renotify on 22 November 2023. C. HARI SHANKAR, J. AUGUST 28, 2023 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:HARIOM Signing Date:28.08.2023 CS(COMM) 817/2018 Page 33 of 33 16:36:54