By Hon'ble Mr. Mohan Pyare, Member (A)

 Present Original Application has been filed under Section 19 of
 the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, seeking the following
 relief: 2. The present case had already been allowed by this Tribunal vide
 its order dated 18.05.2012 which was challenged by the
 respondents before the Hon'ble Allahabad High Court through
 Writ -A No.-57572 of 2012. The relevant portion of the judgement
 and order of the Hon'ble High Court in the aforesaid Writ Petition
 decided on 16.11.2018 which would also highlight the brief facts
 of the case, the previous order of this Tribunal dated 18.05.2012 as
 well as the order and the direction of the Hon'ble High Court is as
 under: Upon finding that the two charge-sheets in pith and substance
 related to the same charge, the Tribunal took the view that as the
 second charge-sheet was issued during the life time of the first
 charge sheet and during the currency of punishment imposed on
 the first charge-sheet, it was not maintainable, particularly,
 when the currency of punishment was completed. The Tribunal thereafter proceeded to notice the
 contentions made on behalf of the original applicant relating to
 fairness of the procedure adopted in the enquiry. In that regard,
 the tribunal noticed four submissions, namely, (a) that the
 request of the first respondent to summon Dr. Nadeem Arshad
 who had allegedly issued the concession vouchers, was turned
 down by the enquiry officer without any justification; (b) that the
 enquiry officer assumed the role of presenting officer and did not
 appoint a presenting officer which is mandatory as per Rules; (c) that statement of two persons, namely, Ashok Pathak and
 Suresh Gautam were used against the first respondent by
 recording them as witnesses of the first respondent; and (d) first
 respondent's request for change of enquiry officer was turned
 down by the enquiry officer himself. After noticing the aforesaid
 submissions, the Tribunal proceeded to observe that the above
 arguments have not been rebutted either in the counter-affidavit
 or in the arguments. Thereafter, the Tribunal proceeded to notice
 a number of law precedents. But, it did not specifically record
 any finding as to whether the enquiry stood vitiated on any of
 the aforesaid grounds. In nutshell, the Tribunal proceeded to allow the original
 application of the first respondent by holding that the second
 charge-sheet was not maintainable as it was hit by principle of
 double jeopardy. In respect of the other points raised by the first
 respondent, the Tribunal did not record any finding. The
 concluding paragraphs no.13 and 14 of the order passed by the
 Tribunal are reproduced below: Assailing the order of the Tribunal, the instant petition
 has been filed. ....... Now, it would be appropriate for us to examine the
 relevant provisions of the Rules, 1968 that were admittedly
 applicable. Rules, 1968 prescribe the penalties that can be
 imposed on a railway servant and the procedure by which they
 could be imposed. Rule 6 of the Rules, 1968 provides for the
 penalties that can be imposed upon a railway servant. Minor
 penalties are enumerated in clause (i) to clause (iv) of Rule 6
 whereas major penalties are enumerated in clause (v) to clause (ix) of Rule 6. Rule 9 of the Rules, 1968 provides for the
 procedure to impose major penalty whereas Rule 11 provides for
 the procedure to impose minor penalty. The two procedures are
 fundamentally different from each other in the sense that not
 only the form in which the charge sheet is to be drawn is
 different but the inquiry procedure is also fundamentally
 different. In a major penalty inquiry procedure, an oral enquiry
 is mandatory whereas in minor penalty inquiry procedure there
 is no such mandatory requirement of oral enquiry though the
 procedure as contemplated by Rule 9 can be adopted where the
 disciplinary authority is of the opinion that such inquiry is
 necessary. However appeal lies, under Rule 18 of the Rules,
 1968, against both types of penalty. Rule 25 of the Rules, 1968 confers power of review on
 certain authorities. It provides that reviewing authority may, at
 any time, either on his or its own motion or otherwise, call for
 the records of any inquiry and review any order made under
 these rules- (a) confirm, modify or set aside the order; or (b) confirm, reduce, enhance or set aside the penalty
 imposed by the order, or impose any penalty where no penalty
 has been imposed; or (c) remit the case to the authority which made the order
 or to any other authority directing such authority to make such
 further inquiry as it may consider proper in the circumstances of
 the case; or

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 6 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006 (d) pass such other orders as it may deem fit. Proviso (b) of Rule 25 of Rules, 1968 provides that where
 the reviewing authority proposes to impose a major penalty
 specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of Rule 6 or to enhance the
 penalty imposed by the order under review, to any of the major
 penalties specified in those clauses, subject to the provisions of
 Rule 14, where no enquiry in the manner laid down in Rule 9,
 has already been held, no such order shall be passed except
 after consultation with the Commission where such consultation
 is necessary and unless such inquiry has been held, and a
 reasonable opportunity, as far as may be in accordance with the
 provisions of sub-rule (5) of Rule 10, has been given to the
 Railway Servant concerned of showing cause against the penalty
 proposed on the evidence adduced during the inquiry. Proviso (c) to Rule 25 provides that subject to the provisions of Rule 14,
 the reviewing authority shall- (i) where the enhanced penalty
 which the reviewing authority proposes to impose, is the one
 specified in clause (iv) of Rule 6 and falls within the scope of the
 provisions contained in sub-rule (2) of Rule 11; and (ii) where
 an inquiry in the manner laid down in Rule 9 has not already
 been held, in that case, itself hold such inquiry or direct that
 such inquiry be held in accordance with the provisions of Rule 9
 and thereafter, on a consideration of the proceedings of such
 inquiry, pass such orders as it may deem fit. Rule 14 of the
 Rules, 1968 enumerates those special cases, of the nature
 contemplated by the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the
 Constitution of India, where holding of inquiry is not required. A perusal of the relevant provisions of the Rules, 1968
 would indicate that where a minor penalty charge-sheet has
 been served upon an incumbent, even the reviewing authority
 cannot impose major penalty unless and until the enquiry is held
 in the manner laid down in Rule 9 which is meant for a major
 penalty charge-sheet. But, to obviate the difficulty, proviso (c) of
 Rule 25 of the Rules, 1968 confers power on the reviewing
 authority to itself hold such inquiry or direct that such inquiry
 be held in accordance with the provisions of Rule 9 and
 thereafter, on a consideration of the proceedings of such inquiry,
 pass such orders as it may deem fit. That apart, the reviewing
 authority, under Rule 25 of the Rules, 1968, on his own motion
 or otherwise, has power to confirm, modify, reduce, enhance or
 set aside the penalty imposed by the order, or impose any
 penalty where no penalty has been imposed. It has neither been shown to us nor we could find any
 specific provision in the Rules, 1968 which may lead us to the
 conclusion that the reviewing authority is barred from annulling
 the entire disciplinary proceeding taken on a minor penalty
 charge sheet while reserving right to initiate major penalty
 inquiry. We could also not find any restriction placed on the
 power of the disciplinary authority to issue a major penalty
 charge sheet with a separate / additional set of charges, on
 discovery of additional material, though they might have been
 drawn/ deduced from the same acts of misconduct that had
 formed basis of the previous charge sheet. Rather, from Proviso (c) to Rule 25 of the Rules, 1968 we find that Rules, 1968 enable

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 7 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 holding of major penalty inquiry even where earlier minor
 penalty enquiry had been held, though upon directive of the
 reviewing authority. In the instant case, from the record, we find that a minor
 penalty charge-sheet was issued to the first respondent and after
 obtaining response from the first respondent and following
 minor penalty procedure, minor penalty was imposed upon the
 first respondent on 19.04.2004. The first respondent did not file
 any appeal against the minor penalty imposed upon him.
 However, when additional material was collected, by leveling a
 more serious charge, a major penalty charge-sheet was issued to
 the first respondent on 12.7.2004. Even though the major
 penalty charge-sheet had been served upon the first respondent,
 the reviewing authority, on its own motion, on 13.08.2004 issued
 notice to the first respondent calling upon him to explain as to
 why his punishment be not enhanced. After receipt of reply from
 the first respondent, and upon discovering that already a major
 penalty charge-sheet had been issued, the reviewing authority
 annulled all proceedings relating to the minor punishment while
 reserving right to hold a fresh enquiry. In that background, we have to consider whether in the
 facts of the case major penalty charge-sheet and all proceedings
 in pursuance thereof were hit by doctrine of double jeopardy. In the instant case, the first charge-sheet only leveled the
 charge of lack of devotion towards duty whereas the second
 charge-sheet by elaborating on the acts of misconduct leveled
 the charge of exhibiting conduct unbecoming of a railway
 servant telling upon his integrity. Lack of devotion towards duty
 in a given situation may be reflective of negligence which, by
 itself, may not be, ordinarily, sufficient to impose major
 punishment. But, in a case, where the conduct reflects upon the
 integrity of the incumbent and is suggestive about his dishonest
 intention, major penalty could be imposed. As the charge in the
 second charge-sheet was more serious it was drawn as a major
 penalty charge sheet by detailing the evidence on which reliance
 was placed as also by elaborating the acts of misconduct from
 which it was deduced. At this stage, it may be appropriate for us to observe that
 in the second charge-sheet, one of the alleged acts of misconduct
 was that on one concessional form, the first respondent issued
 concessional tickets for both to and fro journey from Gorakhpur
 to Kota. The order of the disciplinary authority reflects that such
 type of concessional ticket should not have been issued
 inasmuch as there was no justification for a person to move on
 concessional tickets back and forth at an interval of just few
 days. That apart, the order of the disciplinary authority suggests
 that the concessional forms on which the incumbent had issued
 concessional tickets carried common identification mark of the
 patient/ prospective passenger, which suggested that to complete
 the formality columns of the form were filled. However, we may hasten to add that whether those
 findings/ observations of the disciplinary authority/ enquiry
 officer were justified or not is not being commented upon by us,

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 8 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 inasmuch as, the Tribunal has not at all addressed the merits of
 the charge. But what is important to note is that the two charge
 sheets, though may be drawn from the same act(s) of misconduct
 that is of issuing concessional tickets on bogus forms, levelled
 qualitatively different charges. Hence, the basic ingredient for
 applicability of the doctrine of double jeopardy that there cannot
 be two inquiries on a same charge is lacking. As we have already found that the charges in the two
 charge-sheets, although might have been drawn from the same
 acts of misconduct, were qualitatively different, the principle of
 double jeopardy would not be attracted. Likewise, it cannot be
 said that first respondent has been punished /prosecuted /
 proceeded twice for the same offence /charge. More so, because
 the earlier action taken against the first respondent, on minor
 penalty charge-sheet, was annulled by the reviewing authority
 while reserving right to proceed afresh. No doubt, there might
 have been recovery from the first respondent during the currency
 of the minor punishment but once the minor punishment was set
 aside that recovery could be reversed and substituted by
 subsequent order. Moreover, punishment coupled with recovery
 of the loss caused by the incumbent by his misconduct might not
 be hit by doctrine of double jeopardy (see Commr. of Rural
 Development (supra). We may observe that the seriousness of a misconduct is
 dependent on the intention with which the same has been
 committed. An act when committed with different intentions
 would constitute different offenses. Issuance of concessional
 tickets on forged concession forms may be an act of negligence
 simpliciter or may be by design. When it is a consequence of
 mere negligence, it may not be visited with major penalty. But
 where the act is a consequence of dishonest intention then it
 partakes the character of a serious misconduct warranting
 major penalty. As, in the second charge-sheet, the charge leveled
 upon the petitioner is not of mere lack of devotion towards duty
 but is of exhibiting conduct unbecoming of a railway servant
 thereby telling upon his integrity, the charge leveled in the
 second charge-sheet, on the face of it, is qualitatively different
 from the one in the first. Hence, we are of the considered view,
 the doctrine of double jeopardy would not get attracted more so
 when the reviewing authority had annulled all actions on the
 first minor penalty charge-sheet. The circular dated 01.12.1993 on which reliance has
 been placed by the Tribunal would not be applicable on the facts
 of the present case inasmuch as by the time the second
 charge-sheet was issued, there was no dropping of the
 proceeding on the first charge-sheet. Rather the first
 charge-sheet had already resulted in imposition of a minor
 penalty. Further, nothing has been shown to us that a major
 penalty charge-sheet cannot be separately issued if earlier a
 minor penalty charge-sheet had been issued. Moreover, we find
 that Rule 25 of the Rules, 1968 confers power on the reviewing
 authority to enhance the punishment and in case the punishment
 proposed is a major penalty for which the prescribed procedure
 has not been followed then either itself hold such inquiry or

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 9 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 direct that such inquiry be held as per such procedure. Hence, in
 our view the circular dated 01.12.1993 would not render the
 second charge-sheet and the consequential proceeding in
 pursuance thereof null and void or hit by principle of double
 jeopardy, particularly, when the charges levelled in the second
 charge sheet were qualitatively different. The view taken to the
 contrary by the Tribunal is not legally justified. The decisions on which reliance has been placed by the
 learned counsel for the petitioner would be no help to the
 petitioner for the reasons narrated below:- Thereafter, on the same material, in absence of any statutory
 power in the Indian Railways Regulations, the second
 charge-sheet was issued interlinked with some new material. In
 that context, the apex court had taken the view that second
 charge-sheet was not justified in the facts and circumstances of
 the case. In the instant case, on the allegations made in the first
 minor penalty charge-sheet, the first respondent was found
 guilty but since upon discovery of further material, it was found
 that gravity of misconduct was higher and it reflected upon the
 integrity of the first respondent, a decision was taken to issue a
 second charge-sheet with a qualitatively different charge and,
 therefore, all actions taken under the first charge-sheet were
 annulled by reserving right to proceed afresh. In such a factual
 scenario, the apex court's decision in Canara Bank's case
 (supra) would not be applicable. (iii) In Nand Kumar Verma's case (supra), the
 incumbent's explanation was accepted; the standing committee
 had dropped the entire proceedings after accepting the
 explanation; and thereafter a second inquiry was initiated. In
 that background, the apex court found that there was no
 justification for conducting a second enquiry on similar charges.
 While holding as above, the apex court had observed that even
 though the principle of double jeopardy is not applicable, the
 law permits only disciplinary proceeding and not harassment. In
 the instant case, the first respondent was never exonerated of
 any charge but was found guilty in the first minor penalty
 proceeding. Further, he did not undergo the rigors of a major
 penalty inquiry proceeding which is fundamentally different from
 a minor penalty inquiry, as we have already found while going
 through the Rules, 1968. Hence, it cannot be said that the
 second inquiry amounted to harassment. Under the

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 10 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 circumstances, on the facts of the present case, the law laid
 down in Nand Kumar Verma's case (supra) would not be
 applicable. (iv) The other decision, namely, of a Division Bench of
 this Court in Writ A No. 4769 of 2013, dated 13.04.2018 ( Union
 of India and others v. K.N. Upadhyay and others ), which has
 been relied upon by the learned counsel for the first respondent,
 is not applicable on the facts of the present case inasmuch as
 there, after following due enquiry procedure, punishment was
 imposed and during currency of the punishment, by a second
 enquiry, a more serious punishment was inflicted upon which the
 court observed that the second enquiry would be barred by
 principle of double jeopardy. From the order of that case, it is
 not clear whether the first enquiry was a major penalty enquiry
 or a minor penalty enquiry although from the nature of the
 punishment imposed in the first enquiry, which is of reduction to
 a lower stage of pay for a period of three years with the effect of
 postponing future increments, it appears to be a case where
 major penalty was imposed earlier also. In that context, the
 court was justified in holding that the second enquiry was
 barred by principle of double jeopardy. However, in the instant
 case, first punishment was not by following major penalty
 procedure but by following minor penalty procedure and the first
 punishment order as well as all consequential proceedings
 pursuant to the first charge sheet have been annulled while
 reserving right to proceed afresh. The aforesaid judgment
 therefore renders no help to the first respondent. For all the reasons recorded above, we are of the firm
 view that the Tribunal was not legally justified in holding that
 the second charge-sheet and the consequential actions were hit
 by doctrine of double jeopardy. However, what we notice is that the first respondent had
 challenged the disciplinary action taken against him not only on
 the ground that it was hit by principle of double jeopardy but
 also by raising various other issues concerning fairness of the
 inquiry. Those issues were in fact noticed for adjudication but,
 unfortunately, were not specifically adjudicated by the Tribunal
 inasmuch as it proceeded to allow the original application by
 applying the doctrine of double jeopardy, which we have found
 not applicable on the facts of the case. Accordingly, we consider
 it appropriate to remit the matter back to the Tribunal to
 consider all those other issues that may have arisen from the
 pleadings of the parties so as to ascertain whether the
 subsequent enquiry stood vitiated on account of infraction of the
 principles of natural justice or the procedure prescribed by the
 Rules. At this stage, we may observe that Sri Sanjay Kumar Om,
 learned counsel for the first respondent, had also placed before
 us certain facts to challenge the quantum of punishment that was
 imposed on the first respondent in the second inquiry. Certain
 documents were also placed before us to suggest that on similar
 charges others have been imposed relatively lesser punishment
 than what was imposed upon the first respondent. However, as
 the Tribunal has not examined those facts and no finding has

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 11 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 been returned by the Tribunal on that aspect, we do not propose
 to examine that aspect. We, however, leave it open for the first
 respondent to raise it before the Tribunal as per advise. For all the reasons recorded above, we deem it
 appropriate to allow this petition. The petition is allowed to the
 extent indicated below. The order of the Tribunal dated 18th
 May, 2012 passed in Original Application No 1093 of 2006 is
 set aside. The Original Application no. 1093 of 2006 shall be
 restored to its original number. The Tribunal shall proceed to
 decide the above application, afresh, in accordance with law
 and in the light of the observations made herein above, after
 giving opportunity of hearing to the parties concerned,
 expeditiously, preferably, within a period of four months from
 the date a certified copy of this order is presented before it.
 There shall be no order as to costs." 3. Against the aforesaid order of the Hon'ble High Court, the
 applicant had filed an SLP (c) No(s). 5097/2019 which was
 decided on 05.01.2024 as follows: 4. We have heard Shri Pradeep Kumar Mishra, learned counsel for
 the applicant and Shri Vidyapati Tripathi, learned counsel for the
 respondents. 5. The main arguments of the learned counsel for the applicant are
 that (i) The applicant had already served the minor penalty and the
 amount has been fully recovered, thus, the major penalty charge
 sheet dated 12.07.2004 subsequently issued with the same set of
 charges without cancelling the minor charge sheet dated
 11.03.2004 is illegal; (ii) even after major charge sheet dated
 12.07.2004, respondent no.4 issued an order dated 16.08.2004
 issuing notice to the petitioner for enhancement of punishment
 which clearly certifies that respondents never approved the
 issuance of charge sheet dated 12.07.2004 and as such the same is
 void-ab-initio; (iii) In case of the co-accused namely Shri Ashok
 Kumar Pathak, the appellate authority has only awarded a minor
 penalty; (iv) Dr. Nadeem Arshad, who issued the medical

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 12 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 certificates and subsequently denied it, has not been examined
 during the inquiry, thus, his evidence is not admissible; (v) The
 Inquiry Officer himself assumed the role of the presenting officer
 and acted as a prosecutor while he was supposed to be unbiased
 and it is mandatory as per the rules to appoint a presenting officer
 which has not been done; (vi) The procedure for inquiry has not
 been properly followed as the Inquiry Officer has been biased and
 the request of the applicant for change of the Inquiry Officer has
 been turned down by the Inquiry Officer himself while he should
 have forwarded the request to the appropriate authority; (vii) The
 original relied upon documents were not provided to the applicant; (viii) when the inquiry officer realised that it is difficult for him to
 prove the charges from the testimony of PW-1 to PW-4, he called
 another witness namely S.N. Dubey, though his name was
 nowhere mentioned in the earlier inquiry proceedings and there
 was no occasion to call him inasmuch as there was nothing on
 record to suggest the name of investigation officer on behalf of
 vigilance. Thus, learned counsel for the applicant, referring to
 various provisions of the rules and the Railway Act , argued that
 the procedures prescribed to be followed during a departmental
 inquiry has not been followed in this case, thus, the inquiry stands
 vitiated. 6. Learned counsel for the applicant has relied on the following case
 laws in support of his arguments: (1) [1958] S.C.R. 499. (2) [1971] (2) S.C.C. 617 at 629 We do
 not think that the statements should have been received in
 evidence as the appellant had taken no step to produce the
 persons who made the statements for cross- examination of the
 respondent. It was the duty of the appellant to have produced the
 persons whose statements were sought to be proved for the
 cross-examination of the respondent. In State of Mysore v. S. S.
 Makapur (1), this Court said that the purpose of an examination
 in the presence of a party against whom an enquiry is made, is
 sufficiently achieved, when a witness who has given a prior
 statement is recalled, that statement is put to him, and made
 known to the opposite party, and the witness is tendered for
 cross-examination by that party. As the persons whose
 statements were sought to be relied on were in Delhi and as they
 were not produced and tendered for cross- examination by the
 respondent, we think that the Inquiring Officer was right in
 refusing to act upon the statements relied on by the appellant. As
 there was no material before the Inquiring Officer to. show that
 P. S. Sundaram mentioned in the cheque is P. S. Sundaram, the
 Deputy Secretary, we think the High Court was justified in
 holding that these charges had not been proved." (ii) Judgement of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mathura Prasad vs Union of India and Others [(2007) 1 Supreme
 Court Cases 437] decided on 01.11.2006 wherein it has been
 observed as under: (iii) Judgement of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of State
 of Uttar Pradesh and Others vs. Saroj Kumar Sinha [(2010) 2
 Supreme Court Cases 772] decided on 02.02.2010 paragraph 28
 and 30 of which is quoted below: But the application of principle of natural justice does not imply
 that what is not evidence can be acted upon. On the other hand
 what it means is that no materials can be relied upon to
 establish a contested fact which are not spoken to by persons
 who are competent to speak about them and are subjected to
 cross-examination by the party against whom they are sought to
 be used. When a document is produced in a Court or a Tribunal
 the questions that naturally arise is, is it a genuine document,
 what are its contents and are the statements contained therein
 true. When the Appellant produced the balance-sheet and profit
 and loss account of the Company, it does not by its mere
 production amount to a proof of it or of the truth of the entries
 therein. If these entries are challenged the Appellant must prove
 each of such entries by producing the books and speaking from
 the entries made therein. If a letter or other document is
 produced to establish some fact which is relevant to the enquiry
 the writer must be produced or his affidavit in respect thereof be
 filed and opportunity afforded to the opposite party who
 challenges this fact. This is both in accord with principles of
 natural justice as also according to the procedure -under Order
 XIX Civil Procedure Code and the Evidence Act both of which
 incorporate these general principles. Even if all tech- nicalities
 of the Evidence Act are not strictly applicable except in so far as Section 11 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 and the rules
 prescribed therein permit it is inconceivable that the Tribunal
 can act on what is not evidence such as hearsay, nor can it
 justify the Tribunal in basing its award on copies of documents
 when the originals which are in existence are not produced and
 proved by one of the methods either by affidavit or by witnesses
 who have executed them, if they are alive and can be produced.
 Again if a party wants an inspection, it is incumbent on the
 Tribunal to give inspection in so far as that is relevant to the
 enquiry. The applicability of these principles are well recognised
 and admit of no doubt." (v) He has further relied on the judgements of this Tribunal in
 O.A./1165/2015 ( Hare Ram Verma vs. UOI & ors ) decided on
 04.10.2024 and O.A./157/2006 ( Suresh Gautam vs. UOI & Ors )
 decided on 06.02.2009. 7. Submission of learned counsel for the respondents is that the
 conduct of the applicant of failing in his duty resulted in loss of
 Railway revenue. He further states that the minor charge sheet
 dated 11.03.2004 and punishment order dated 19.04.2004 of minor
 penalty were cancelled without prejudice vide order dated
 16.02.2005 and the recovery of the pecuniary loss was based on
 the debit raised as per station outstanding against the applicant,

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 16 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 which has been recovered and the applicant has not challenged the
 same. The major charge sheet was issued to the applicant after
 seeing the gravity of the incident by the disciplinary authority on
 his own and the allegation in both the charge sheets are different
 and both were issued in different circumstances. It is stated that
 respondent no.4 is the competent authority to pass the orders as
 revising authority in the case as per Rule 25 of Railway Servants
 (D. & A.) Rules 1968 and further order of cancellation of all the
 proceedings initiated in charge sheet dated 11.03.2004 was given
 in view of charge sheet dated 12.07.2005. It is also submitted that
 minor charge sheet was issued by the lower authority i.e. Assistant
 Commercial Manager being competent for the same, whereas
 subsequent major charge sheet was given by the Divisional
 Commercial Manager after getting the investigation report of the
 vigilance. On representation of the applicant, the minor penalty
 charge sheet came to the knowledge and it was cancelled. He also
 states that the statement of Dr. Naseem Arshad and other relevant
 relied upon documents were made available to the applicant for
 his effective defense under the relevant rules. The representation
 of the applicant for change of the Inquiry Officer was baseless and
 only meant to delay the proceedings which is clear from the
 Inquiry Officer's letter dated 12.08.2005. It was the duty of the
 applicant to submit his representation to the proper authority
 which he intentionally did not do. 8. We have considered the rival submissions of learned counsel
 appearing for the parties, and gone through the entire documents
 on record. 9. It has been observed by the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad in
 the aforesaid writ petition that the present case is not that of
 double jeopardy since the subsequent major penalty charge sheet
 has been issued with a separate/ additional set of charges, on
 discovery of additional material, though they have been drawn/
 deduced from the same act of misconduct that had formed the
 basis of the previous minor charge sheet. The first charge sheet

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 17 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 only leveled the charge of lack of devotion towards duty whereas
 the second charge sheet leveled in addition to that the charge of
 exhibiting conduct unbecoming of a railway servant telling upon
 his integrity. It has also been observed that Proviso (c) to Rule 25
 of the Rules, 1968 enable holding of major penalty inquiry even
 where earlier minor penalty inquiry had been held, though upon
 directive of the reviewing authority. In the present case even
 though the major penalty charge-sheet had been served upon the
 applicant, the reviewing authority, on its own motion, on
 13.08.2004 issued notice to the applicant calling upon him to
 explain as to why his punishment be not enhanced. After receipt
 of reply from the applicant, and upon discovering that already a
 major penalty charge sheet had been issued, the reviewing
 authority annulled all proceedings relating to the minor
 punishment while reserving the right to hold a fresh inquiry. The
 recovery made from the applicant amounts to the loss incurred by
 the railway revenue and the applicant never challenged the minor
 penalty which shows his acceptance of the charges. 10. So far as the appointment of a Presenting Officer is concerned, it
 is not mandatory but only optional under the Railway Servant (D
 & A) Rules, 1968. The applicant also alleged bias against the
 Inquiry Officer but did not specifically demanded to change him
 in his letter dated 11.08.2005 (Annexure A-12). Although he
 submitted his application in this regard to the Inquiry Officer
 himself, yet it was not befitting the Inquiry Officer to reject the
 application on his own not being the authority competent to decide
 it. As per the rules, whenever an application is made by the
 Railway servant against whom disciplinary proceedings are
 initiated under the Railway Servants (Discipline and Appeal)
 Rules, 1968 against the Inquiry Officer, on the ground of bias, the
 departmental proceedings should be stayed and the application of
 the delinquent alongwith the other relevant material must be
 forwarded to the appropriate reviewing/revising authority
 specified in Rule 25 of Railway Servants (Discipline and Appeal)
 Rules, 1968 for considering the application and passing

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 18 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 appropriate orders thereon expeditiously (Railway Board's letter
 dated 19.06.1974). But in the present case, the Inquiry Officer
 himself decided the issue without forwarding it to the appropriate
 authority. Thus, the impugned Inquiry Report as well as the
 impugned orders are vitiated on the ground of bias. 11. The witness of Shri S.N. Dubey also has been taken to merely fill
 the gap and he was not examined previously and so he was also
 not called during the proceedings. Dr. Nadeem Arshad, who had
 denied the issuance of the medical certificates has also not been
 called and it has been recorded in the order dated 31.01.2006 that
 so far as the question of calling Dr. Nadeem Arshad as court
 witness is concerned, he would have said the same thing in the
 disciplinary inquiry also if he was present as he said in his letter
 dated 23.06.2003 which has been received by the Inquiry team
 personally. Yet, the principles of natural justice demand that the
 person who issued the letter dated 23.06.2003 denying having
 issued any medical certificate be cross-examined by the charged
 officer even if he had to say the same thing even in his presence
 during the inquiry proceedings as only this way the validity of the
 said letter could be ascertained by both the parties. In this respect
 the applicant's reliance on the judgement of the Hon'ble Apex
 Court in the case of Union of India vs. Sardar Bahadur (Supra )
 quoting the case of M/S. Bareilly Electricity Supply Co. LTD vs.
 The Workmen and others (Supra) come in his support. The
 judgement of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Mathura
 Prasad vs UOI and Ors (Supra) as relied upon by the applicant
 holds judicial review maintainable in case the statutory authority
 uses its power in a manner not provided for in the statute or order
 without application of mind. The Judgement of the Hon'ble Apex
 Court in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh and ors vs. Saroj
 Kumar Sinha (supra) is in support of the applicant's argument that
 the Inquiry Officer was biased. Apparently, the Inquiry Officer is
 not supposed to act as a prosecutor himself. The relied upon cases
 of Hare Ram Verma vs. UOI & ors ( supra) and Suresh Gautam vs.
 UOI & Ors (supra) decided by this Tribunal do not throw much

 Digitally MADHU signed by Page 19 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006

 light on this case as they are factually different. Moreover, when
 the respondents cancelled the previous minor charge sheet and the
 penalty imposed, there should have been an order reversing the
 punishment already undergone by the applicant before imposing
 another major penalty on him. 12. In addition to this, in the case of Shri Ashok Kumar Pathak (who
 was charged with the same set of charges as the applicant and who
 was given the penalty of removal from service in the similar
 circumstances), the appellate authority after considering his appeal
 and the circumstances of his case, modified his penalty from
 removal from service to reinstatement with stoppage of increment
 in salary permanently for five years (Annexure R.A.-2 of the
 Rejoinder). This clearly reflects a disparity in treatment between
 the two employees by the department. 13. Thus, we are of the view that it is not a case of double jeopardy as
 the major penalty charge sheet has been issued with a separate/
 additional set of charges. This opinion finds support in the
 observation recorded by the Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad in
 its decision dated 16.11.2018 in Writ-A No.-57572 of 2012.
 However, in the present case, the Inquiry Officer himself has
 decided the representation of the charged official regarding bias
 and change in inquiry officer without forwarding it to the
 appropriate authority, the witness Shri Nadeen Arshad was not
 summoned to be examined in support of the letter issued by him,
 witness Shri S.N. Dubey was not listed in the charge sheet but
 examined by the Inquiry Officer only to fill the gap and the
 punishment imposed upon the applicant is not at par with Shri
 Ashok Kumar Pathak, who has been held guilty of the same
 misdeed which reveal that this is a case of certain procedural
 omissions and disparity. Thus, on consideration of the entire facts
 and circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the
 impugned punishment order and the appellate order are liable to
 be quashed and the matter is liable to be remitted back to the
 disciplinary authority to start a fresh inquiry. Digitally MADHU signed by Page 20 of 21 KUMARI MADHU
 KUMARI
 O.A./1093/2006 14. Accordingly, the impugned order of punishment dated 31.01.2006
 and the appellate order dated 16.06.2006 are hereby quashed and
 the respondents are directed to reinstate the applicant in service as
 if the removal order dated 31.01.2006 was never passed granting
 him all the consequential benefits arising therefrom. In case the
 applicant has attained the age of superannuation, he should be
 granted all the consequential benefits accruing to him as a result of
 quashing the aforesaid impugned orders dated 31.01.2006 and
 16.06.2006. The matter is further remitted back to the respondents
 who may start a fresh inquiry into the matter, proceeding strictly
 in accordance with the rules governing the same. The aforesaid
 exercise should be completed within a period of four months from
 the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order. 15. Thus, the O.A. stands partly allowed in the above terms. All
 associated M.A.s also stand disposed of. No costs.