The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog, is considering new disclosure norms for cross-border online transactions, including credit cards, Business Today reported citing sources. The new changes will require real-time tracking for both international and domestic transactions.

India will also reportedly host the FATF’s public consultation on Recommendation 16, a policy the organisation is working on to increase transparency in transactions. The policy proposes additional transparency requirements on card purchases, improving the content and quality of basic originator and beneficiary information in payment messages, introducing obligations on financial institutions to check beneficiary information in payment messages, among other things.

According to the RBI’s annual report, fraud has occurred predominantly in the category of digital payments (card/internet). 29,082 card transactions frauds valued at Rs 1,457 crore took place in 2023-24, a major increase from 2022-23 which saw 6,699 instances of fraud amounting to ₹277 crores.

The report revealed that the RBI was looking at measures to combat fraud. It proposed adopting alternate risk-based authentication mechanisms that will leverage behavioural biometrics, location/ historical payments, digital tokens, and other in-app ways in lieu of SMS-based one-time password (OTP). It also suggested implementing the ‘payee name look-up facility’ in compliance with the newly enacted Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 to combat fraudulent transactions.

The RBI barred Kotak Mahindra Bank from onboarding customers and issuing fresh credit cards in April 2024 citing “serious deficiencies” and “non-compliance” in its IT risk management and information security governance.

The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology on February 8 in its report noted that a common tool used in committing financial fraud, especially in investment and predatory loan app scams, was virtual accounts. These accounts also use virtual cards that work on Visa and Mastercard networks that are used to egress money out of India. This, subsequently, masks the trail of funds and allows criminal to evade anti-money laundering measures.

Speaking at the Global Fintech Fest, Mayank Goyal, CEO of moneyHOP noted that frauds also take place on the cross-border level, wherein often, in an e-commerce transaction that takes place internationally, money is siphoned into a different account. He also noted that mule accounts have become increasingly sophisticated. “We’ve seen a little bit more sophistication of the mule accounts whereby, especially in developing countries such as India, an unwitting people are given a small amount of money to use their identity to create an account, move money into that, and then take it from there.”, he said.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event