Seeking the Court to enlarge the petitioner, who is

arrayed as accused No.1 in Crime No.2546 of 2024 of Cyber

Crime Police Station, Hyderabad, on bail, the present Criminal

Petition is filed. 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 24.10.2024,

received a complaint from de facto complainant stating that a

she received a WhatsApp call from the cell number

8623956089. The caller claimed to be from the Mumbai Cyber

Crime unit and stated that her Aadhaar card was being

misused in various states, including Goa, Haryana, and

Punjab. It is alleged that her Aadhaar information was used to

obtain a Jio fiber network connection, which was involved in

illegal activities such as child trafficking, pornography, and

money fraud. The caller threatened her, stating that she was a

suspect in a money fraud case and would be arrested if she

disconnected the call. SKS,J Crl.P.No.15477 of 2024 3. Heard Sri Janardhan Sunkari, learned counsel

appearing on behalf of the petitioner as well as Sri Sri Syed

Yasar Mamoon, learned Additional Public Prosecutor

appearing for respondent - State. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that even

if the allegations are taken as true, no prima facie case is

made against the petitioner and that the allegations do not

constitute an offence as alleged in the complaint. He further

submitted that the petitioner denies involvement in the alleged

offence and claims that the allegations are false and an abuse

of the legal process and that the necessary ingredients for the

alleged offence are not present in the complaint, and no overt

act is attributed to the petitioner. Therefore, he prayed the

Court to grant bail to the petitioner by allowing this Criminal

Petition. 5. On the other hand, learned Additional Public Prosecutor

submitted that the allegations leveled against the petitioner

are serious in nature, at this stage, granting of bail to the

petitioner does not arise. Further, the investigation is not yet

completed. Therefore, he prayed the Court to dismiss the

criminal petition. SKS,J Crl.P.No.15477 of 2024 6. In the light of the submissions made by both the

learned counsel and a perusal of the material available on

record, it is noted that that the bank account of the petitioner

was implicated in a transaction resulting in a substantial

financial loss of Rs.3,21,000/- for the victim. Further, this

amount remains unrecovered to date. In light of the severity

of the offence and the fact that the primary perpetrator

remains unknown, the Court is not inclined to grant bail to

the petitioner at this juncture. Therefore, this Court does not

find any merit in the criminal petition to grant bail to the

petitioner and the same is liable to be dismissed. 7. Accordingly, this Criminal Petition is dismissed. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall stand

closed. _______________
 K. SUJANA, J

Date: 31.12.2024
SAI 4 SKS,J Crl.P.No.15477 of 2024 THE HONOURABLE SMT JUSTICE K. SUJANA

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.15477 of 2024

Date: 31.12.2024
SAI