The government of India has set no timeline for Virtual Digital Assets (VDA) regulation like cryptocurrencies and non-fungible tokens (NFT), revealed an answer to a question in parliament on December 16. “Virtual Digital Assets (VDAs) are by definition borderless and require international collaboration to prevent regulatory arbitrage. Therefore, any comprehensive regulatory framework on the subject can be effective only with significant international collaboration on evaluation of the risks and benefits and evaluation of common taxonomy and standards,” said the Ministry of Finance.

Despite this, the government brought VDAs under the purview of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) and taxed cryptocurrency withdrawals.

Commenting on the parliament response, Ajay Kumar, Partner at Triumvir Law, stated that the government seemed to be following a wait-and-watch policy. “It’s good that the government is taking its time, as bad regulation can be worse than no regulation. The G-20, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and other global groups need to have a lock-step approach where they don’t ban VDAs outright but mitigate their potential for money laundering,” he said.

“It is very difficult to regulate the inflow and outflow of capital to VDAs as they can be transferred to anyone outside of the RBI’s scrutiny purview,” he added.

Cryptocurrencies are also risky to use as they are not traceable and one cannot reverse transactions with a court order. “This puts consumers at risk from fraudulent transactions,” said Kumar “On top of that, cryptocurrency transactions are settled in real-time on the blockchain without intermediaries, making it difficult for users to dispute transactions at a later date.”

According to Kumar, the government would also have to clarify the regulatory agency in charge of VDAs. While the RBI is in charge of governing currencies, VDAs like cryptocurrencies don’t seem to be used that way. “Bitcoin was originally supposed to be a currency, but it is now being used more as a capital asset or investment vehicle,” said Kumar.

Just today, the Jodhpur Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) also stated that Bitcoin qualified as a capital asset since it grants ownership rights and can be bought, sold, or transferred.

“A merchant is perfectly at liberty to reject a purchase if it is made in cryptocurrencies. The point of legal tender currency is that people have to accept it if given,” Kumar added.

“On the other hand, for SEBI to regulate VDAs, they would have to fit the definition of securities under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act. Ideally, parliament will have to clarify this,” he said.

“It’s the Wild Wild West now. There’s no better way to put it,” commented Dinkar Kalra, advocate on record at the Supreme Court.

“Lack of regulation means basically you’ve allowed organisations and individuals to mislead investors. Cryptocurrency is an unregulated entity about which users, I understand know very little. That in itself leaves enough scope for manipulation,” he added.

He gave the example of cryptocurrency exchange WazirX, which got into hot water this year after a cyberattack left it in the lurch for $230 million. The exchange attempted to “socialise” its losses amongst users by locking 45% of everyone’s cryptocurrency holdings. Kalra had previously attempted to organise WazirX users and take legal action.

He also had a number of recommendations for regulations that would protect consumers and investors in the cryptocurrency market:

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event