SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Mother is terrorising weight loss scam guys on Instagram
DATE: 2023-10-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/170prns/mother_is_terrorising_weight_loss_scam_guys_on/

--- POST TEXT ---

I taught my mom how to use Instagram way back during Covid and she has become well versed on consuming it. She had been trying to lose weight since a decade but was unable to. During the last two years she saw a lot of YouTube and read a lot of WhatsApp forwards in her lady groups. 

She was successfully able to lose a lot of weight and is quite healthy and fit now. Not only that she also learned all the ways to avoid gaining weight and multiple ways to fast to lose weight. Before this weight loss she was scammed by total of three different mofos from Instagram and Local Network. She carries her photo in her phone and when someone asks she shows the Before and After and people are actually impressed. Not only that, she also recommends and advises people on how to lose weight now including her own sister and friends. 

All of this is normal. It's not problematic. It all seems real nice and nobody gets irritated as she does not bring it up as much as I might have made you think. This is one aspect of her life and I only mentioned one of it to you. 

But now she has a new habit. She makes me sign her up for all the webinars and programs in YouTube and Instagram, then she joins it and listens to them. She learned how to use Zoom and Google Meet specifically for this. Once she is in the meeting she listens attentively and most of the time it is a scam, then she starts to ask them questions and stating different numbers and metrics. Once I overheard her tell a some shady guy in the meeting to chulle bhar paani main doob maro. 

Usually the scammers remove the person turant ke turant and if they join again they remove them again. Sometimes they listen to her and try to patronise her and tell her she doesn't have full idea or biology is really vast. This morning she had a really long debate till the scammer guy started making as hominem attacks and my Mom called him a chota aadmi with choti soch and he removed her. I thought this was way over the top and asked her not to talk to such people. She says it's fun and she is not going to get scammed anyway. She mentioned that she has been now doing it since 5 months and says it's her duty to stop people from getting scammed. 

This evening when I came back after my gedi with friends she asked me how can she record her screen on the calls. I told her I'll do it tomorrow morning. I am not scared or anything it's just online and it's mostly cowardly scam artists.

I texted my door ki sister and she just texted God forbid if women have a hobby and then asked me if GATE is easy to crack.

Please tell me what to do. I just want her to be safe and still have fun. She pretty much takes care of everything herself but I don't want something to go viral or shit.

Thanks!