SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Breaking News: Anti National activities in India on the rise among starving population, in hopes of being sent to Pakistan for better nutrition!
DATE: 2020-10-19
SCORE: 190
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/jdlzem/breaking_news_anti_national_activities_in_india/

--- POST TEXT ---

After the Global Hunger Index placed Pakistan above India for the 4th consecutive year, from 2017 to 2020, Anti National activities have begun to significantly rise in India, to avail the central government’s free migration policy of sending people to Pakistan. Most people think it is in their best interest, if they were sent straight to Pakistan on a one way ticket, to increase their chances of not dying of starvation and malnutrition, both key components while calculating the Global Hunger Index.

“Not only I might get something to eat after a long time, I might be safe from Coronavirus over there as well, as Pakistan’s situation in the Pandemic is nowhere near as bad as India, despite their low testing rates. Jinah Zindabad!” Vijay explained, while being dragged to detention camp in Assam, after being declared an illegal citizen using NRC. His family hopes he will be deported to Pakistan or Bangladesh and then bring back some food to eat after coming back as a citizen using CAA.

Shoaib, a 35 year old ex muslim living in Hyderabad, who came out as an atheist at the age of 18, adopted Islam again after all these years. However before he could begin his anti national activities, he was arrested on the way to home for taking part in Delhi Riots and a case of sedition was filed against him, despite video evidence of him being present in hospital for his Wife’s delivery of their identical twins. Sudhir Chaudhary and Sudarshan TV were quick to call him out for doing ‘Population Jihad’.

“When many Hindus are not able to have 1 kid, and some of their kids die of malnutrition before the age of 5, then how can Shoaib have 2 kids and feed them better than the poorest Hindu kids in India. This will tip the population in Muslim’s favor. It would be only fair if his kids also starve to death! Don’t let him feed his kids! This is Population Jihad!” Exclaimed an overtly animated anchor on Sudarshan TV.

Kangana Ranaut chimed in on the whole matter, after calls for execution of Shoaib’s family gained widespread criticism. “Jihad to mere saath hua hai! Where were all the liberals when I was forced to give up my lunch after an early breakfast because the shooting of Manikarnika was delayed when a Muslim camera man came in late for work. Why didn’t you stand up for the struggles I had to face! It’s all about me after all. Me. Me . Me. Me and only me.”

Pakistan who is doing better than India at feeding its citizens and Bangladesh who is going to overtake India in GDP per capita according to IMF, refused to take any more deportations, citing the Pandemic and illegal immigration.

Imran Khan had the following to say on the matter “Indians and BJP supporters are pouring into our borders. They are rapists, they are criminals, they burn the dead bodies of raped women without asking family. Some I believe are good people. We need to build a Wall! A big beautiful Wall! Everyone says so. I am going to build a Wall and make India pay for it!”. 

While Indians were hurt by the semi-racist attacks, they laughed at the idea of paying for the wall. They said they’d rather spend the tax payer money on more statues, more temples and more parliaments, rather than stupid things like Wall or feeding the poor and children.

Edit: This is Satire. It is supposed to exaggerate to make a point. Don't be so sensitive.