(As per Hon'ble Mr. B.V.Sudhakar, Admn. Member)

Through Video Conferencing: GPO while conducting annual establishment review for the year 2019, it

was found that 45 PA posts plus 3 supervisory posts were found surplus.

Consequently, it was proposed to temporarily attach the surplus identified

PAs to different postal divisions under Hyderabad City Postal Region. The

number of points required to continue Group 'A' status of Hyd-GPO is

11,000 whereas, on review only, 7343 points were arrived at and hence, it

was proposed to downgrade it to Group 'B' status. Further, Staff Unions are

precluded from taking up establishment issues vide Postal Directorate letter

dated 31.3.1965. Even before their representations could be disposed, they

have approached the Tribunal. Neither public interest nor staff morale

would be adversely affected due to down gradation, since Hyd-GPO

functioned with Group 'B' status prior to 2005 and that many Head Post

offices in the country are working with Group 'B' status. The sanctioned Page 3 of 100 OA No.337/2020 establishment of the Hyd- GPO is 136 (134 PAs + 2 LSG) and the justified

strength is 91 as per review, whereas 122 officials are working thereby

rendering 31 officials surplus. New Post offices are to be opened in the

outlying areas of Hyd. City and the existing post offices have to be

strengthened and hence the attachment of PAs to divisions as proposed, by

calling for their willingness in adherence with the Principles of Natural

Justice. Of the 31 PAs individually addressed to indicate their options for

attachment to different Postal divisions, 10 opted for attachment, 18 sought

retention at Hyd-GPO and the rest did not respond. The attachment of PAs

will curtail unnecessary expenditure on establishment. Conducting work

study in 25% of the Head Post offices is not practical and it is not necessary

to undertake study of every office since the nature of work is similar. The

CSI norms were applied to branches specified and where not, old norms

were used to complete the review. The proposal to down grade Hyd-GPO

was submitted to R-1 by R-2 (Chief Post Master General (CPMG),

Telangana Postal Circle, Hyderabad) on 27.4.2020 and it was approved on

16.7.2020 (Annexure R-IX to MA 317/2020). Implementation will be

subject to outcome of the pending OAs. Cadre restructuring is under

adjudication and that the present review is of the establishment of the Hyd

GPO based on ACSI norms. Similar establishment review based on CSI

norms, was done in respect of Vaishalinagar, Boddupal & LB Nagar Sub

Post Offices respectively, revealing that there was justification for 4 PA

posts altogether in these offices and therefore, it is not correct to state that

ACSI norms were not applied to other offices. Computerization has brought

about a sea change in the functional dynamics of Hyd-GPO. Page 4 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Applicants filed a rejoinder, wherein they claim that the respondents

have admitted that work study was not conducted in the required number of

HPOs. When the ACSI norms have not covered all the branches of the

HPO, respondents should have fallen back on the age old time tested

Maratha Time test and the relevant provisions of the Madan Kishore report

for organizing work study. From 2019 onwards there are 29 PA vacancies

that have not been filled up, causing immense work pressure. Chief Post

Master has intimated R-3 vide his letter dated 16.3.2020 that Asst.

Accounts officer (for short AAO) has developed norms for the accounts

branch, as per latter's report dated 9.3.2020 in compliance with the orders

of R-2. AAO is not the competent authority to develop establishment

norms. OA 265/2020 filed by some others is different from the present OA

since grounds and orders challenged are dissimilar. Other contentions

pleaded are repetitive. Respondents along with the reply statement have filed MA 317/2020

in the instant OA for vacation of the interim stay granted on 3.7.2020 and

its extension on 22.07.2020, wherein they assert that in MA 186/2020 filed

in OA 265/2020, in respect of the same issue, this Tribunal refrained from

granting any interim order. An erroneous view of law as well as facts was

taken, in passing the interim order on 3.7.2020 and later extending it. The

establishment module of CSI is under testing and therefore, the work study

team has developed ACSI norms. Tribunal has observed in the interim

order that the Standard inspection unit (for short SIU) norms were violated,

which is not true since SIU norms are applicable to administrative offices Page 5 of 100 OA No.337/2020 and not to an operative office like Hyd-GPO. Further, it was also remarked

by the Tribunal on 3.7.2020 that certain items of work were not reckoned.

ACSI norms were applied wherever available and old norms used for other

items of work, thereby covering every activity of work of Hyd-GPO in

arriving at the work load. The Tribunal went on to observe that ACSI

norms were not applied to other offices in the country but exclusively to

Hyd-GPO, whereas the ground reality is that establishment review of Hyd-

GPO had to be taken up since it was due. Besides, Tribunal adduced that

down gradation was implemented without approval of R-1, which indeed

was approved on 16.7.2020. The statistics were compiled by the Chief Post

Master and the correctness was verified by the Asst. Supdt. of Post offices.

In addition, Tribunal has commented that the down gradation was done

with an ulterior motive, which is not true. Attachment of 45 PA posts to

needy offices will not entail immediate down gradation of Hyd-GPO to

Group 'B' status. There is a proposal to upgrade Khammam Postal Division

into Group 'A' division by redeploying the Group 'A' post of Hyd-GPO

which is found surplus due to review. There will be no adverse impact on

public service or morale of the employees as put forward by the Tribunal in

the interim order. Due to the interim order, additional manpower to needy

Post offices could not be provided, though badly required. Other

contentions made are on similar lines as in the reply statement. Applicants filed a reply to the MA No. 317/2020 filed by the

respondents for vacation of the interim order, asserting that the earlier OAs

cited by the respondents are different in respect of the orders challenged. Page 6 of 100 OA No.337/2020 The ASCI norms have not been tested in any GPO. Review of

establishment cannot be undertaken based on adhoc untested norms for

long. The statistical information given by the Group Supervisors were not

taken into account. Hyd-GPO earns almost half the revenue of the Circle

and there is good potential to earn more. Due to computerization, work load

has decreased in other Post offices, whereas in case of Hyd-GPO it has

increased due to introduction of new services. Whenever a policy initiative

is initiated, invariably the Joint Consultative Machinery (for short JCM)

and Departmental Council are consulted and therefore, it is incorrect to

state that Unions are debarred from taking up establishment matters. Lower

Selection Grade (for short LSG) cadre restructuring will have a marked

impact on establishment review in respect of PA cadre. R-1 has violated the

interim order of the Tribunal by issuing memo dated 16.7.2020 to

downgrade Hyd-GPO. Earlier, respondents claimed that they proposed to

divert the surplus Group 'A' post of Hyd-GPO to City Regional Office and

in the MA, they are claiming that it would be deployed to upgrade

Khammam Postal Division. When almost half the staff strength of Hyd-

GPO is reduced irregularly, it would mar public service and morale of the

staff since the remaining staff will have to shoulder the burden of the

existing heavy work load. Respondents moved the Hon'ble High Court for the State of

Telangana in WP No. 15170 of 2021 for staying the Tribunal interim order

dated 3.7.2020. While not acceding to the prayer made, Hon'ble High Court

has directed on 7.7.2021, to dispose the case as expeditiously as possible, Page 7 of 100 OA No.337/2020 preferably within 6 weeks from the date of receipt of the order. The order of

the Hon'ble High Court is extracted here under: Ld. Sr. Standing Counsel for respondents mentioned about the

Hon'ble High Court order on 19.8.2021 and accordingly, hearing

commenced, finally reserving the judgment on 2.9.2021. 6. Heard both the counsel and perused the pleadings on record. The

main thrust of the arguments of the Ld. Counsel for the applicants was that

the down gradation and consequent transfer of officials was not in

accordance with established procedures and rules. This was opposed by the

Ld. Sr. Standing counsel for Respondents by claiming that the action taken

was as per R-1 directive, the competent authority and that down gradation

is a policy matter which should not be interfered with by the Tribunal. Page 8 of 100 OA No.337/2020 7. I. The dispute is about down gradation of Hyd- GPO using ACSI

norms and the consequent displacement of Postal Assistants from Hyd-

GPO to different City Postal Divisions under Hyderabad City Postal

Region, with jurisdiction over post offices located in urban and rural areas.

We have carefully gone through the various contentions of both the parties

and the material papers on record. Our observations vis-à-vis their

contentions are as under. To begin with, applicants sought the following relief: GPO is an operative office headed by the Chief Post Master (for short

"CPM"), who has to arrange for the necessary statistics for review.

Statistics compiled are to be forwarded to the Divisional office/ Regional

office, and if required a test check of the statistics can be sought by the

CPM or ordered by the authority superior to the CPM, by deputing

personnel on his behalf for the said purpose. Thereafter, they are examined

by the Divisional / Regional office in detail in order to take an appropriate

decision in regard to expansion or contraction of the establishment with the

concurrence of the internal finance advisor. Respondents have made it clear

that the CPM has forwarded the compiled statistics for annual

establishment review pertaining to the year 2019 and requested for

verification of the same. Accordingly, the statistics were got verified

independently by deputing Asst. Superintendents of Post offices from the

administrative office. Verification of statistics by a few Asst. Page 10 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Superintendents of Post offices, it appears, has been construed by the

applicants to be collection of statistics by a Special Committee and not by

the CPM, Hyderabad. Applicants have not submitted any document to

disprove that the Chief Post Master has collected the statistics. If the

assertion of the applicants was true, which indeed points towards a serious

procedural lacuna, it is not known as to what prevented them to present the

documentary evidence, despite giving ample opportunities to do so. The

contention of the Ld. Counsel for the applicants that their averment was not

rebutted by the respondents in the reply statement, would not sustain since

respondents in their standing instructions filed on 9.7.2020, have asserted

that the statistics were collected as per practice and got verified by the Asst.

Superintendents. In spite of this unequivocal and repeated pleading by the

respondents, the same was not refuted by the applicants with any verifiable

evidence in their rejoinder/ reply to the MA 317/ 2020, filed by the

respondents for vacation of the interim stay passed on 3.7.2020. Thus

applicants were making only a general and bald statement without

documentary proof to substantiate their contention. Therefore, there is no

reason to not to believe that the respondents followed the procedure

prescribed in collection of statistics. Hence, in the absence of any textual

evidence submitted by the applicants, contrary to the assertion of the

respondents that the statistics were compiled by the Sr. PM Hyd-GPO, we

reject the contention of the applicants that the statistics were compiled by

the special committee as averred by them. Page 11 of 100 OA No.337/2020 III. Sample Size

 The next contention of the applicants is about choosing a very small

number of Head Post offices (for short HPO)/ General Post offices (for

short GPO) for study to lay down establishment norms. They contend that

for setting up establishment norms at least 25% of the offices from the 810

Head Post Offices and 24 General Post Office (A-XII) ie around 208 post

offices, spread over the country are to be taken up for study, whereas

respondents took a sample size of only 20 Head post offices. Therefore,

applicants contend that the action of the respondents is against rules.

Respondents in the reply statement aver that, it is not practical to cover

neither 25% of the total Head Post offices nor is it necessary to cover all the

Head Post offices for laying down the establishment norms and that work

study was conducted in 20 Head Post offices to prescribe the Adhoc Core

System Integrator (for short "ACSI") norms. Core System Integrator

(CSI), in simple terms, is a software, which communicates and seamlessly

interacts with other software's used in respondents organization, doing

away with the cumbersome and time consuming process of operating each

software separately. Due to computerization, respondents claim that there is

substantial reduction of work and hence it was imperative to develop

establishment norms applicable to a computerized work environment. To

this extent, we appreciate and acknowledge the fact that computerization

does facilitate rapid and accurate response in comparison to the manual

mode. However, establishment norms have to be carefully studied and

standardized since any inadequacy in this regard will be detrimental to Page 12 of 100 OA No.337/2020 work efficiency and the survival of the organization. Respondents insist

that work study of a sample of 20 Post offices out of total population of 834

Post offices would do (810 HPOs + 24 GPOs). As per respondents' version,

the percentage of offices sampled would thus work out to a sample size of

2.39% of the total population. The question that would then arise is as to

whether 2.39% of the sample size will be representative of around 98%

of the population under study. Statistically speaking, it will be gravely

improper to assume that a miniscule sample of 20 Head post offices

would represent a humungous majority of the remaining 814 Head

post offices/General Post Offices. We would like to affirm the observation

made by going into the basics of sampling and sample size, since we are

concerned that the respondents have not shown the seriousness they ought

to have, in dealing with an issue of immense public interest. The Public

interest emanates from the fact that Hyderabad GPO has been set up in

1724 as a petite post office and slowly with the work getting augmented

over more than 3 centuries, it has graduated to a Group 'A' post office, by

enlarging the services offered and consistently earning a Lion's share of

annual revenue of the Postal circle. Its eminence requires no elaboration, as

most of the public members visit this post office rather than the others, in

view of the unique service image it has carved for itself over the centuries.

It provides a range of services mostly unmatched by other post offices in

the Postal Circle. Its march towards progress and potential for growth is un-

satiating and yet respondents' decision to arbitrarily interfere in its stellar

march by achieving the present mantle of Group 'A' status and rendering Page 13 of 100 OA No.337/2020 magnificent public service, requires to be examined closely against the

background of rules and law. Reverting to the core issue of sampling, it is a process by which

inference is made to the whole by examining a part. The purpose of

sampling is to provide various types of statistical information of a

qualitative or quantitative nature about the whole by examining a few

selected units, in cases where the population is big like in the instant case of

instituting establishment norms for a population of 834 HPOs/GPOs.

Sampling is done because cost wise gathering data for the entire population

is exorbitant and a time guzzler. Even in relatively small populations, the

data may be needed urgently and including everyone in the population in

the data collection may take too long. Therefore, we do agree with the

respondents that it may not be practical nor required, to study all the 834

units since it would amount to an approach adopted during census, but we

disagree with regard to their submission that even covering 25% of the 834

Head Post Offices i.e. approximately 208 offices, is not practical. The

respondents have not made any effort whatsoever through material

papers submitted or during oral submissions to neither explain the

rationale in choosing only 20 Head Post Offices and why not a lesser or

a higher number nor did they file any OM which dictated a certain

percentage of post offices to be studied, if not 25% as claimed by the

applicants, despite being repeatedly probed by the Tribunal in the

hearings conducted. Every decision of the respondents has to have a

rationale backing it. A rationale comes into play when you are asked to give

the reasoning or justification for an action or a choice you make. There is a Page 14 of 100 OA No.337/2020 focus on the 'why' in a rationale: why you choose to do something, study or

focus on something. It is a set of statements of purpose and significance and

often addresses a gap or a need. The set of statements of purpose in

deciding to study only 20 HPOs are not forthcoming from the respondents

in none of their treble submissions of standing instructions, reply statement

and MA for vacation of interim stay. The only reason spelt out, that it is not

practical to study beyond 20 HPOs without advancing reasons as to how it

is practical to study the specific number of 20 and why it is impractical to

study more, is indubitably irrational. Undeniably the size of the sample is

very important for getting accurate, statistically significant results and

conducting the study successfully. Thus, there has to be a definite sample

size and it cannot be selected in an arbitrary manner as is convenient to

the respondents. Arbitrariness is an antithesis to rationality, the latter

being the bed rock of Jurisprudence. Particularly in the context of the

fact, that the primary goal of sampling is to get a representative sample,

from a larger population of 834 units, so that the respondents can study the

smaller group and produce accurate generalizations about the larger group

with repercussions into the future as well. In setting up establishment

norms, population and sample are two important interrelated factors of

intrinsic significance. Ignoring the interrelationship is unscientific and the

respondents being model employers dealing with one of the world's

gigantic Postal Network of nearly 1.55 lakh post offices (Annexure A-XII),

cannot afford to adopt instinctive methods to deal with an issue of grave

public importance and staid repercussions for India Post in the years to

come. The more representative is the sample of the population, the more Page 15 of 100 OA No.337/2020 the accuracy in the quality of the results. Larger the sample size which is

closer to the representative sample size, the larger is its representativeness.

A sample should not reflect any bias toward a specific attribute by adopting

a questionable sample size as is noticed in the present case. True to speak

sampling is a tool that is used to indicate how much data to collect and how

often it should be collected. This tool defines the samples to take in order to

quantify a system, process, issue or problem. To sum up, the three core

characteristics of a good sample are i) to be goal-oriented, ii) accurate

representative of the universe and iii) being proportional to the population

under study. The sample size of 2.39% of the total population i.e. 20

HPOs as decided by the respondents does not, in our view, enable the

respondents to reach the goal of defining establishment norms for the

834 HPOs/GPOs since the sample is unrepresentative of the total

population because of its size being decidedly disproportionate to the

size of the population studied. The reason is not far to fetch, since if the

sample is too small as in the instant case, the results will be skewed and one

does not get a fair picture of the whole population, defeating the very

purpose of conducting the work study. It appears that the respondents have

resorted to convenient sampling where selection of offices is based on their

accessibility and belief that the responses from such sample units would be

representative. Convenience sampling is a type of nonprobability sampling

in which units are sampled simply because they are "convenient" sources of

data for the respondents. The risk involved in this type of sampling for the

case on hand, is that the scope of participation of certain percentage of

offices located in unique geographical regions and different cultural Page 16 of 100 OA No.337/2020 background would not be adequate. Hence, the results of the convenience

sampling cannot be generalized to the target population because of the

potential bias of the sampling technique due to under-representation of

subgroups in the sample in comparison to the population of interest.

Moreover, the bias of the sample cannot be precisely measured. Defacto,

results in the case on hand, could be biased because of under or over

representations of the various hues of the Head Post offices located in

urban, rural, hilly, tribal and remotely located areas in the North East

and J&K. The potent sampling technique is probability sampling wherein

each office of the population has a known nonzero chance of being selected

through the use of a random selection procedure. If results are to be

produced that are representative of the whole population, probability

sampling techniques are the most valid choice. To be precise, the aim of the

respondents was to arrive at the time taken in performing each of the

operations in different branches of the HPOs/GPOs. For calculating the

time taken for a large number of transactions performed, quantitative

research has to be undertaken. Quantitative research is the process of

collecting and analyzing adequate numerical data from a representative

sample which can be used to find patterns and averages, make predictions,

test causal relationships, and generalize results to wider populations with

the closest accuracy as is possible. It produces objective data with a higher

coefficient of reliability that can be clearly communicated through statistics

and numbers. Further, when a sample is to be selected, statistical formulae

are used to usher in the needed objectivity in the decision. The documents Page 17 of 100 OA No.337/2020 of the respondents are bereft of any such information which is critical in

taking a decision of crucial public interest. Going a step further, mathematically speaking, for determining the

sample size (NSS), the population size, confidence level, standard

deviation, margin of error and Z scores are plugged into the rudimentary

and well known formula given below: requisite for the making of a valid order, that requirement should not
 be confused with the sufficiency of such material to support any such
 order. Whether or not the material placed before the competent
 authority was in the instant case sufficient to justify the decision
 taken by it, is not in issue before us. That aspect may have assumed
 importance only if the competent authority was shown to have
 applied its mind to whatever material was available to it before
 cancelling the examination. Since application of mind as a thresh-
 hold requirement for a valid order is conspicuous by its absence the
 question whether the decision was reasonable having regard to the
 material before the authority is rendered academic. On examination of the question as to whether the impugned decision

is such that no responsible authority acting reasonably and in accordance with

relevant law could have reached, as mandated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Jagdish Mandal v. State of Orissa , (2007) 14 SCC 517, this Tribunal is

of the view that no reasonable authority could have reached such a

conclusion and therefore, the very choice of choosing 2% of the

population to represent 100% of the population is arbitrary. Page 20 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Instinctual decisions have no place in law. Reason backed decisions

hold the fort and not otherwise. We are flabbergasted to note that the

respondents were unable to produce any rule to select only 20 HPOs/GPOs.

Therefore, the decision to select 20 HPOs to set up ACSI adhoc norms for

834 HPOs/GPOs is not legally tenable in accordance with the judgment

cited supra for lack of application of mind in deciding the representative

sample size in the disputed issue. IV. Competency of R-2 to R-4

Another related contention of the applicants is that local respondents R-2 to

R-4 have developed their own norms to branches of HPOs for which ACSI

norms were not developed by R-1, the competent authority on the subject.

Consequently, the entire exercise of down gradation of Hyd-GPO is

vitiated. In specific terms, applicants contend that without the approval of

the competent authority i.e. R-1, norms were evolved for the accounts

branch, not covered under ACSI norms. Further for other branches for

which ACSI norms were not evolved old manual norms were adopted by

the local respondents, again without the approval of the competent

authority. By going into the facts, it is evident that the entire dispute arose

when Hyd-GPO was due for annual establishment review for the year 2019

and the respondents initiated action as per Postal Directorate letter No. 25-

11/201.9-PE-I/WS dated 24.5.2019. The relevant portion of the letter is

extracted verbatim here under: Page 21 of 100 OA No.337/2020 It is apparent from the cited letter that the Internal Work Study Team

(I/WS) has studied activities of each branch in 20 Head Post offices and

the ACSI review norms have been prepared. Of relevance is that the

respondents claim that each branch of the HPO has been covered. As

observed above, with the computerization of post offices, it was obligatory

to develop new norms and hence ACSI norms were developed by the

respondents. Consequently, with the advent of new ACSI norms, old

norms get relegated. Applicants claim that the following items of work

given in Annexure X of OA, have not been covered by ACSI norms.

PART-I 1. Accounts Branch 2. Schedules work 3. TMO Compilation - Issue and Paid 4. ECB Memos 5. J Branch - Stock purchase and distribution 6. Work in the Administrative Branch 7. AEPS Biometric 8. Adhaar enabled payment system 9. UCP/UCR further detailed classification Page 22 of 100 OA No.337/2020 10. Server down, Finance problems 11. SOP not received 12. Branch to Branch transfer 13. Maintenance of Rough Note Books 14. Maintenance of Hand to Hand receipt Books 15. Maintenance of Registers in all Branches 16. Overnight Counter. PART - II 1. 29 Sub Officers are attached to Hyd GPO Work relating to these offices in
 respect of the following items are not included a) Receipt and despatch of mail bags b) Receipt and despatch of Accounts bags c) Receipt and supply of cash d) Receipt and review of ECB memos f) Receipt and review of accounts g) Receipt and review of daily and periodical statements

 As seen from the table, 17 items of work critical to the establishment

review have not been covered by ACSI norms. Admittedly, although R-1 is

the competent authority as per the reply statement, the local respondents

(R-2 to R-4), who are incompetent to apply other than ASCI norms for

establishment review, took upon themselves to use old manual norms to

review the work of branches not covered by new ACSI norms. More so, in

the context of the letter of R-1 dated 24.5.2019 being portentously emphatic

that every branch of the HPO has been studied for laying down ACSI

norms. If some branches were left, it is for R-1 to clarify as to what should

be done with respect to such branches. In the absence of any instruction to

this extent in the cited letter, it was incumbent on part of R-2 to R-4 to

obtain approval from R-1 to apply old norms, since ACSI norms are Page 23 of 100 OA No.337/2020 applicable to all HPOs/GPOs in the country and not just for Hyd-GPO.

Without approval of R-1 for application of old norms, it was grossly

irregular on part of R-2 to R-4 to process down gradation of Hyd-GPO with

its allied consequences. Therefore, to conclude, it is crystal clear that

incompetent authorities have applied old norms to certain items of

work not covered by new ACSI norms. The application of old norms

by incompetent authorities in matters of grave importance is legally

invalid. Furthermore, when it comes to Accounts Branch for which ASCI

norms were not developed, R-4 (Chief Post Master, Hyd GPO) in his letter

dated 16.3.2020 to R-3 (PMG, HQ Region, Hyd), which is appended to the

rejoinder, has stated as under: We are aghast to note that the Asst. Accounts Officer (AAO) has

fixed the establishment norms for the accounts branch as per his report

(page 18 of rejoinder) dated 9.3.2020 submitted to R-4, as under : R-2 has no locus standi to order fixation of establishment norms, in

the context of respondents repeated assertion in the reply statement that

they have done the establishment review based on ASCI norms as ordered

by R-1, who is the competent authority to order so. There are 834

HPOs/GPOs in the country and uniform establishment norms have to be

fixed by R-1 for review of the work in the said offices. If each Chief Post

Master General, (R-2 in the instant case), of every circle lays down the

establishment norms for the HPOs/GPOs under their jurisdiction, then there

will be, for sure administrative chaos in the respondents organization. In

fact, on one hand R-2 to R-4 claim that they have done the establishment

review of Hyd-GPO as per R-1 orders and on the other hand, have self-

contradicted this contention by taking up review as per their own norms/old

norms for certain branches. To reiterate, some establishment norms were

developed by AAO for accounts branch on the orders of R-2, an

incompetent authority and in respect of other branches where ACSI norms

were not framed, again incompetent authorities have applied old norms. In

none of their written submissions, respondents have filed any memos to

justify that the action of local respondents ie R-2 to R-4 to develop norms

for accounts branch and applying old norms for some other branches

bypassing the orders of R-1, is as per rules, despite liberally granting

plentiful opportunities to do so. R-2 has indulged in unbridled exercise of Page 25 of 100 OA No.337/2020 power to direct AAO, though ipso facto he has no power to delegate the

said function of developing work study norms for the accounts branch of

the Hyd-GPO. Reasons for such delegation supported by rules are not to be

seen across the length and breadth of the written submissions of the

respondents. Hence the said decision has to be construed to be unlawful.

Material papers submitted by the respondents, when scanned pixel wise,

have not revealed that R-1 has delegated the power to lay down

establishment norms to R-2 and the grounds thereof. We therefore, declare

the decision of R-2 as illegal by taking support of the observations of

Hon'ble Apex Court in District Registrar and Collector v. Canara

Bank , (2005) 1 SCC 496, as under: It is not out of place to affirm that it is well settled in law that a

public authority discharging a public function has to act fairly. His/her

decision is to be founded on germane factors and not by considering

extraneous factors. R-2 need to have to put to himself a correct question of

law as to whether he was competent to order the AAO to develop norms for

the accounts branch, to enable him to arrive at the correct answer.

Instructions of R-1 were clear and meticulously following them was the

name of the game and if there were any gaps, placing the ball in the court of

R-1 was the legally valid response. Once ACSI yardsticks were positioned

by R-1, they have to be followed and not anything else. However, it was

not to be and hence a blatant jurisdictional error has occurred. Any

decision lacking jurisdiction is unenforceable in the eyes of law and is a

sure case of abuse of power. We take support in stating the above by

relying on the observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court observations in Page 27 of 100 OA No.337/2020 M.P. State Coop. Dairy Federation Ltd. v. Rajnesh Kumar Jamindar ,

(2009) 15 SCC 221, as under: ..... ..... Furthermore, it is well settled that while a power is exercised by an
 authority, ordinarily, the reasons contained in the order should be
 supported by the materials on record. 51. ...... It is one thing to say that a yardstick has been fixed for the
 purpose of taking recourse to the power of compulsory retirement but
 there cannot be any doubt or dispute that such yardstick must be based
 on relevant criteria. If the relevant criteria, as has been laid down by the State, which has been adopted by the Federation, had not been
 acted upon, the order must be held to have been suffering from
 jurisdictional error. Moreover, a statute is a rule or law which has been made by a

government or other organization and formally written down. R-1 has vide

letter dated 24.5.2019 communicated the rules to be followed in

establishment review of HPOs/GPOs using ACSI norms. Thereby the said Page 28 of 100 OA No.337/2020 letter of R-1 conveying the requisite rules having acquired the character of

a statute, it has to be literally interpreted in consonance with its purported

objective. In this context, we need to observe that the construction of the

statute issued by R-1 is clear, plain and natural in its language to the extent

that every branch of the Head Post Office has been studied in fixating the

ASCI norms. The fundamental rule of interpretation is that the words used

in the statute must be given their plain grammatical meaning. One cannot

afford to add any words to read something into the statute, which was not

intended. It being so, there was no necessity to alter the essence of R-1

statute by R-2, to build norms for areas not indicated in the said letter or use

old norms not spoken of in the said signorma, by adding words of non-

availability of ACSI norms for certain branches of the HPO. Even if the

statute is unworkable, it is improper to add words and activate it, because

by doing so, the very intent of the statute of R-1 to use new ACSI norms

gets modified. Each word employed in a statute must take colour from the

purport and object for which it is used. The intent, purport and object of R-

1 letter was candidly plain and clear to conduct establishment review using

ACSI norms and no where it is mentioned that old norms can be used or

local authorities can develop local norms for branches uncovered by ACSI

work study norms. Thus, the singular interpretation of the statute was to

apply ACSI norms. Basically, when there was no scope for two

interpretations, as per law, the literal and unique interpretation of the statute

to use only ACSI norms has to be adopted. Hence, the decisions of the

local respondents to develop new norms and use old norms in the

background of the non-availability of ACSI norms for certain branches, Page 29 of 100 OA No.337/2020 though not directed by R-1 stridently goes against the law of interpretation

and hence are not sustainable. Therefore, they are null and void. Our

above remarks are based on the judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court in

the following cases. a. Polestar Electronic (P) Ltd. V- Addl. CST, (1978) 1 SCC 636: b. Greater Bombay Coop. Bank Ltd. v. United Yarn Tex (P) Ltd. (2007) 6 SCC 236: Usually when work study is undertaken, the results of such a study are

shared with the operative units where such studies are undertaken, to obtain

the feedback on the time factors worked out, for confirming their validity or

rework on them, if need be. Respondents are silent on this aspect. We are

disappointed that when a core contention in regard to the time factors was

made by the applicants, respondents have not delved on the same to present

their point of view, for reasons best known to them. Instead, respondents have harped on the fact that the number of

points that need to be earned for retaining Group 'A' status of Hyd-GPO is

11,000 and that on taking up establishment review using a hybrid of ACSI

& old norms, 7343 points were found to have been earned and hence, down

gradation is an inevitability. The grave sampling error noticed, ACSI norms

not being developed for some branches, applying old norms and developing

unauthorised norms by local respondents arbitrarily etc. point towards an

unreasonable approach adopted by the respondents in assessing the work Page 33 of 100 OA No.337/2020 load and deciding the down gradation of Hyd-GPO. When the approach of

the respondents' lacks rationality due to grave procedural lapses brought

out supra, their conclusion that the points earned on review are less than

11000 lacks logic. Anything illogical is unacceptable. Respondents'

organization is a public institution and any major decision

encompassing public interest has to be responsible, reliable and valid.

Adjudged against the 3 elements of measurement referred to, the decision

to downgrade Hyd-GPO is not maintainable since it is neither responsible

nor reliable nor for that matter, valid. In sum and substance, we found no

reasons forthcoming from the respondents rebutting the critical contention

of the applicants. When the start, of using certain unapproved norms is

fouled, the finish in the form of down gradation decision cannot be declared

as proper. A right in law exists when it has a lawful origin. An order is bad

in its inception it does not get sanctified at a later stage for the reason that

illegality strikes at the root of the order. No authority is competent to

validate such an order. Once an order is bad in the initial stage the further

proceedings based on the said order will be non-est. This flows from the

general principle applicable to 'consequential orders' which applies to

administrative orders as much as to judicial orders. Once the basis of a

proceeding has gone awry, any action thereof would fall to the ground. This

principle of consequential orders which is applicable to judicial orders is

equally applicable to administrative orders. In the instant R-1 has laid down

the ACSI norms without covering all the branches of the HPO/GPO and

directed the lower formations to review the establishment of the cited

offices. Having got incomplete Adhoc CSI norms, R2 to R-4 tried to make Page 34 of 100 OA No.337/2020 up for the inadequacies in R-1 order, by developing their own norms and

applying old norms, which is impermissible under law. The order of R-1 is

bad in its inception since it does not cover all the branches of the

HPO/GPO. Improving the said order by the local respondents, transgressing

their jurisdiction, has transformed the R-1 order from bad to worse and

hence non est in law. In making the above remarks we have taken support

of observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the following verdicts. A. Badrinath vs Government of Tamil Nadu And Ors. , AIR

 2000 SC 3243, 2000 (6) SCALE 618, (2000) 8 SCC 395, 2000

 Supp 3 SCR 573: B. State Of Orissa & Anr vs Mamata Mohanty on 9 February,
 2011 in CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1272 OF 2011

 ORDER BAD IN INCEPTION: (vide: Upen Chandra Gogoi v.State of Assam & Ors., AIR 1998 SC
 1289; Mangal Prasad Tamoli (Dead) by L.Rs. v. Narvadeshwar
 Mishra (Dead) by L.Rs. & Ors. , AIR 2005 SC1964; and Ritesh
 Tiwari & Anr. v. State of U.P. & Ors. , AIR 2010 SC 3823). Being on the subject, we also need to add at this juncture that

administrative process will be vindicated by clarity in its exercise. Reasons

for taking a decision have to be disclosed and sufficiently sustained.

Absence of reasons could render the decision liable for judicial review and

can be legally declared unworkable, as in the present case. It is the

reasoning alone, that helps to appreciate the controversy in its correct

perspective and hold whether the administrative decision, is justifiable in

law. Respondents having not given reasons for the vast time gap in the

transactional time observed under ACSI and quoted by the applicants by Page 36 of 100 OA No.337/2020 appending Annexure A-IX, the transactional time decided by the

respondents under ACSI need necessarily require a second look. We are of

the view that this can be the correct legal approach to resolve the dispute.

Our above views are expressed by relying on the observations of the

superior judicial fora, as under: a. In CCT vs. Shukla and Bros. [(2010) 4 SCC

 785], the Hon'ble Supreme Court impressed upon the need

 for recording of appropriate reasons in orders and held as

 under: b. Hon'ble Jharkhand High Court in Jit Lal Ray v. State of

 Jharkhand, WP(C) No. 469 of 2019, decided on 26-04-2019

 has held : Based on the aforesaid, we observe that the respondents were

expected to reason out as to whether human contribution was factored in

prescribing ACSI norms and also present their point of view for the huge

variations between the ACSI time factors and those stated by the applicants.

Ld. Counsel for the applicants has submitted that the respondents

organization has a good practice of picking up some members of the Staff

Unions as observers/ members of work study team, so that the stakeholders

are on board in arriving at acceptable work norms. True, such a practice has

to be complemented. However, respondents have not stated so anywhere in

the multiple affidavits. While being on the subject, we are reminded of the

pivotal role of feedback in electronic circuits. Just as in an electronic

circuit, reverse feedback enhances the operational efficiency of the circuit, Page 38 of 100 OA No.337/2020 so too the field feedback received from stakeholders, is a valuable source to

correct anomalies, if any, and make the system robust. From the facts on

record, the respondents appears to have not given any thought to the

feedback provided, which we are of the view, is incorrect. To conclude,

respondents not disclosing reasons as to whether human contribution was

reckoned in tailoring the ACSI norms is not in consonance with legal

principles of the superior judicial fora, cited supra.

VI. Public Interest

 Proceeding further, we notice that the applicants have contended that

the exercise of down gradation of the Hyderabad GPO has seriously

compromised public interest. Presently, Hyderabad GPO is headed by a

Group 'A' officer designated as Chief Post Master. A Group 'A' officer

has wide powers to settle public claims in regard to Money Orders, non-

delivery of mail, Savings Bank claims and so on. Hyd.-GPO is an operative

office, which is the front end of the respondents organization and is thus

placed at the cutting edge between the administration and the customers.

Progressive measures will help in fine tuning the cutting edge to improve

service delivery. Not only external service delivery has to improve but the

internal working environment with reference to discipline, recruitment,

staff welfare etc. has to be in tandem in order to enable any public

organization render public service of superlative quality. Hyd-GPO can be

no exception to this basic Managerial norm. When the internal working

environment is effective and efficient the same gets reflected in the external

service delivery. In other words, the equation of significance is that the Page 39 of 100 OA No.337/2020 internal working efficiency is directly proportional to the external service

delivery efficiency of an organization. The general principle is that the

scope to enhance internal and external working efficiency depends on the

level of administrative independence the Head of Office enjoys. As the

status of the office amplifies, proportionally the independence gets

enlarged. Applying this principle to the instant case, when Hyd-GPO is

downgraded from Group A to Group B, the degree of autonomy would be

condensed since the operational and administrative powers available would

be curtailed resulting in referring certain types of public issues to the

Divisional Superintendent for resolution. Thereby, an additional tier comes

into play to settle public claims/issues which invariably consumes more

time and throws up new doubts since the issue has to be vetted at different

levels, before a final decision is taken. The policy of the Government is to

provide effective service in the shortest possible time. GOI, having noticed

the shortfalls in providing public service by Central Govt. departments, has

introduced the Centralized Public Grievance Redressal and Monitoring

System (for short CPGRAMS), an online 24 X 7 platform for the citizens to

lodge their complaints about service delivery. The motive was to improve

service efficiency across the spectrum of Central Government departments,

of which the respondents organization, a service department, is a part and is

known to contribute to a significant percentage of complaints. When GOI

policy is for improving service efficiency, the respondents cannot

indulge in the luxury of diluting the same by giving scope for

procrastination of resolution of public grievances by taking a

regressive decision of downgrading the Hyd-GPO and that too, by not Page 40 of 100 OA No.337/2020 adhering to the basic procedures prescribed. The argument of the

respondents that there are many HPOs/ GPOs with Group B status

providing similar service is hollow since there is a marked difference in the

schedule of powers, as prescribed in the Postal Manuals in different

domains like finance, discipline, claim settlement etc. to be exercised by a

Group 'A' and Group 'B' officer. This variance is sufficient enough to

make all the difference in the service quality to be rendered, assuming

similar levels of sincerity and commitment in the officers who hold the

posts. Similar logic extends in improving the internal working environment

with reference to the status of the office. Further, the existence of Group

'B' HPOs/GPOs spoken of, by the respondents which are statistically

justified to be so, can be no reason to irregularly downgrade Hyd-GPO

from Group 'A' to Group 'B' by throwing the applicable procedures to the

wind. Reducing the ability to service customers and control internal

environment, by curtailment of powers of the Post Master through down-

gradation of Hyd-GPO is a hard fact, which cannot be denied by any stretch

of imagination. Chief Post Master with Group 'A' status has wider powers

and therefore would be able to attend to public grievances at his level,

which would be fundamentally foregone if Hyd-GPO is downgraded to Gr-

B irregularly by using unapproved norms violating the instructions of the

competent authority on the subject. Hence' an irrational administrative

decision which diminishes service quality is not in public interest and

therefore, unendurable in the legal domain. As observed by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the judgments cited below, larger public interest demands

observance of instructions and not to violate them. Indeed, the overarching Page 41 of 100 OA No.337/2020 requirement of the Constitution is that every action of the State has to be

well informed and in public interest. The decision of the respondents is

neither well informed in consonance with the prescribed procedures as

brought in the previous paras nor in public interest and therefore lacks legal

sanction. a. Karnataka Public Service Commission & Ors v B.M. Vijaya Shankar &
 Ors , AIR 1992 SC 952:(1992) 2 SCC 206: b. Nidhi Kaim & Another vs State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors Etc in Civil
 Appeal No. 1727 of 2016, as under: In view of the above, we hold that Public interest will be

compromised by the respondents' impugned decision to downgrade the

status of Hyd-GPO from Group 'A' to Group 'B', as well as lower the

morale of the staff members. VII. Handling of alleged Surplus staff by the local authorities: However, the officials attached to the divisions will continue to be in the
pay rolls of Hyderabad GPO. Hyderabad GPO will continue to draw their pay
and allowances till such time the posts are permanently redeployed and the
officials transferred to other divisions." Accordingly, R-4 has obediently moved the office note dated

9.5.2020 directing the identified 31 surplus PAs to exercise their option by

14.5.2020, which was extended upto 21.5.2020 for attaching them to any of

the city postal divisions, indicated above, under Hyderabad city Postal

Region with Post offices located in far flung places as well. There being no

response, R-4 reminded the concerned on 26.5.2020 to reply by 17 hours on

27.5.2020. Once again, there being no reply, individual letters were shot off

to the PAs concerned by R-4 on 29.5.2020 directing immediate response.

Of the 31, ten gave willingness to work in other divisions, 18 opted to be

retained at Hyd-GPO and the rest gave no option. In other words, 2/3rd of

the staff members were unwilling to stir out of Hyd-GPO. Obviously,

when the staff feel wronged by administrative decisions, which are not in

wavelength with the prescribed procedures, the resistance mounts leading

to a legal battle. Exactly, this is what has happened in the instant case, with

the filing of the instant OA dated 25.6.2020. The respondents have not

explained as to why R-3, who has no jurisdiction over the issue, could

downsize the establishment and direct R-4 to commence the process of

moving the identified surplus staff to city postal divisions vide his letter

dated 6.5.2020, without the receipt of R-1 approval. R-3, as the head of the

City Postal Region, bears the responsibility to go into the pros and cons of

the proposal submitted by Hyd-GPO for verifying as to whether it is in

accordance with established procedures. If need be, bring it to the notice of Page 46 of 100 OA No.337/2020 R-2 about the procedural irregularities like AAO fixing norms for accounts

branch, old norms being adopted without approval of R-1 etc. It is a classic

case of colourable exercise of power by R-3. In fact, seeking clarification

from R-1 about the methodology to be adopted in case of branches not

covered by ACSI norms would have been apt, for the reason that adhoc

norms circulated by R-1 are not just for Hyd-GPO but for the 834

HPOs/GPOs in the country. Hence, a Pan India decision was called for and

not a local decision without jurisdiction. R-3 is a Joint Secretary level

officer holding independent charge of the Region and at the said senior

level, it would have been appropriate to give a careful reading of the

proposal submitted by R-4 against the backdrop of rules and thereafter, take

up with the superiors for action as per rules. There is no record on file to

claim that R-3 has made such an effort and instead, hastily pushed the

proposal by issuing the premature order dated 6.5.2020. Haste brings waste

in all the dimensions of relevance, as seen in the case on hand. We

depreciate the R-3 decision since it is an administrative aberration devoid of

competency and any support of the relevant rules. Only after the Tribunal

intervention by issue of the Interim order on 3.7.2020, the approval of R-1

was received on 16.7.2020, which again has a legal angularity, discussed in

the ensuring para. Delving further deep into the dispute, we have no hesitation to hold

that the order of R-3 cited smacks of arbitrariness. In legal parlance, a

decision not in conformity with rules, but based on individual discretion not

backed by reasons and founded on preference, is said to be arbitrary. The Page 47 of 100 OA No.337/2020 facts and circumstances of a case will reveal the element of arbitrariness in

the legal paradigm. The test to discern arbitrariness is the test of

reasonableness and if a mode is prescribed to perform an act and if it is not

followed, then the vice of arbitrariness would be attracted. Rule of law

advocates governance by laws and not by humour, whims or caprices of the

men to whom the governance is entrusted for the time being. It is trite that

`be you ever so high, the laws are above you'. This is what men in power

must remember always. Applying the above legal disposition to the instant case, we find that

the order of R-3 dated 6.5.2020 details the posts to be attached to city

divisions without elaborating the reasons as to what elements of the Chief

Post Master report dated 16.3.2020 that propelled to take the decision to

attach the posts to city divisions and that too, in the face of no approval

having been received from R-1 at that point of time. There is, thus the

quality of reasonableness profoundly absent in the cited decision of R-3 by

exercising his own discretion. The mode prescribed was to await approval

of down gradation from R-1 and thereafter, initiate action to disperse the

surplus posts identified. Before R-1 approval dated 16.7.2020 was received,

R-3 issued the premature memo dated 6.5.2020 and R-4 acted in tandem to

compel the so called surplus identified officials to make their choice to

move to any of the city postal divisions. Thus, R-3 &R-4 ran before the

whistle for the 100 meter dash was blown and such a start is termed as a

foul in the sports arena and in the legal arena, it is categorized as arbitrary.

Hence, the memos issued by R-3 and R-2 cited supra are to be distinctly

classified as arbitrary. A decision which is arbitrary is illegal and hence the Page 48 of 100 OA No.337/2020 letter dated 6.5.2020 of R-3 is unlawful. Respondents are not above law and

they cannot run the organization as per their whims and caprices. The law

will catch up with them sooner or later. Any selective amnesia to this stark

reality by the respondents is ill advised. We have made the above

comments by taking support of the observation of the Hon'ble Apex Court

in East Coast Railway & Anr. v. Mahadev Appa Rao & Or in Civil

Appeal No. 4964 of 2010 & Civil Appeal Nos. 4965-4966 of 2010,

decided on July 7, 2010, as under: 18. There is no precise statutory or other definition of the term "arbitrary". In Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi and Ors. v. State of U.P. and Ors. (AIR 1991
 SC 537), this Court explained that the true import of the expression
 "arbitrariness" is more easily visualized than precisely stated or defined
 and that whether or not an act is arbitrary would be determined on the facts
 and circumstances of a given case. This Court observed: From the above, one can safely conclude without any iota of doubt, that the

local authorities have acted beyond their jurisdiction erroneously and hence

their decisions lack legal force. VIII. Violation of Interim Orders: gradation and thereby adversely impacting public service as well as staff
morale. Page 51 of 100 OA No.337/2020 5. Contesting the claims made, the Ld. Respondents' counsel argued that
 establishment review is a policy matter and that in a similar issue this
 tribunal in the recent past after taking all the factors into consideration has
 not granted any relief. She sought time to obtain instructions on the points
 raised by the Ld. Applicant counsel. 6. After hearing both the counsel, we concur with the Ld. Respondents
 counsel in regard to the aspect of establishment review being a policy matter.
 However, the challenge made by the applicants is in regard to applying the
 adhoc establishment norms on various grounds like competency, procedural
 irregularities, using untested establishment review module, selectivity, public
 interest etc which need to be looked into closely within the frame work of
 rules. Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again observed that rules cannot be
 curbed or snubbed. It is not out of place to adduce that a policy is
 implemented by framing relevant rules and it is these which are to be
 followed by the respondents. The challenge in this OA is very much against
 not following the said Rules. In the previous OA referred to by the Ld.
 Respondents' counsel, the challenge was in regard to transfer of officials but
 in the present case the very foundation of the transfer i.e. the establishment
 review and the consequences thereof are under challenge on various grounds
 listed above." The interim order was a direction to the respondents to not to

interfere with the Group A status of Hyderabad GPO. The interim order

was thereafter extended from time to time based on the submissions of both

the parties. Despite the Tribunal order of 3.7.2020 respondents have gone

ahead and issued the down gradation memo of Hyderabad GPO on

16.7.2020 violating the interim order, which tantamount to contempt of

court. The Ld. Counsel for the applicants has submitted that the respondents

are habitual contemnors and they have no respect for court orders. A court

order, right or wrong, has to be complied or contested in the superior

judicial fora for seeking appropriate relief. In the instant case, there is no

stay of the interim order by the Hon'ble High Court as on 16.7.2020. Page 52 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Respondents without giving any reasons in the reply statement for issue of

the memo in question contrary to the Tribunal order, have submitted that

they would implement the cited memo subject to the finalization of the OA,

as if they have been generous enough to grant a concession to the Tribunal.

The question is why at all a memo was issued contravening the Tribunal

order, for which we find no answer. The submission of the respondents that

they have not implemented the memo is unacceptable, since an executive

cannot sit on appeal over a judicial order. The very issue of the down

gradation memo cited is inappropriate attracting the provisions of the

Contempt of Court. It is time that R-1 evolves a training program

exclusively for officers from the JAG level and above, who approve the

affidavits, at Rafiq Ahmed Kidwai National Postal Academy (RAKNPA),

Ghaziabad on legal issues, so that their point of view is properly reflected

and due care is taken for being careful in implementing the orders of the

court. This suggestion we are giving because we see a point in the

submission of the Ld. Applicants' Counsel and our experience too has been

sadly so. Often, the Tribunal had to chide the respondents to comply with

the Tribunal orders. Our concern is that, justice should prevail and all

parties have to work in this direction. While being on the subject, it would

be beneficial to quote the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Director of Education v. Ved Prakash Joshi ,(2005) 6 SCC 98, in regard

to the necessity to implement the court order, as under: In view of the above observation of the Hon'ble Apex Court the

respondents are liable to be prosecuted for Contempt of the Court suo motu.

However, we do not wish to go that far at this juncture, but to direct R-1 to

take necessary action in issuing proper guidelines to those down below for

ensuring that the Tribunal orders are respected, properly understood and

acted upon without fail, leaving no room for being hauled over the coals

for contempt. The memo so issued, be marked to the Registrar of the

Tribunal and the representing Ld. Sr. Respondent counsel for reference and

record. Thus, as there has been a clear violation of the interim order of the

Tribunal by issue of R-1 letter dated 16.7.2020, it calls for deprecation of

the same, with all the force English language can command. We hope and

trust that R-1 will take proper and necessary steps to ensure that the same is

not repeated in the future. Page 54 of 100 OA No.337/2020 We are also constrained to observe that the respondents in the MA

317/2020 have attributed certain uncalled for remarks to the Tribunal by

stating as under: gradation and thereby adversely impacting public service as well as staff
 morale." The observations attributed to the Tribunal were actually the submissions of

the Ld. Applicants' counsel from paras (i) to (xi) of the interim order and

not that of the Tribunal. Respondents being model employers need to be cautious in filing

affidavits before the tribunal by referring to correct facts. Ld. Sr. Standing

Counsel for the Respondents could have guided the respondents to avoid

stating what is not correct. Judicial discipline of stating the true facts

applies to both the parties. Mistakes of the nature in question give an

impression that there was serious lack of application of mind in drafting the

affidavits. We hope that due note of the same shall be taken and ensure no

recurrence. IX Role of Trade Unions

 The interesting aspect of the dispute is that the matter under dispute

was taken up by the Trade Unions of the respondents' organization, raising

serious concerns about the entire proposal. Respondents claim that the

Trade unions are precluded from taking up matters relating to establishment

matters. In regard to the submission of the respondents, we would like to Page 57 of 100 OA No.337/2020 recall that as per the Joint Consultative Machinery Brochure published by

Govt. of India, the Scheme for joint consultation with the organizations of

Government servants on the pattern of the Whitely Machinery in U.K. was

recommended by the Second Pay Commission (1959). After working out

the details in consultation with the leaders of the employees, the Scheme

was introduced in 1966. The Scheme is voluntary covering civil regular

employees of the Central Govt. other than Class I/II services/police

personnel etc. Government and the Staff Associations/Unions participating

in the Scheme are required to subscribe to a Declaration of Joint Intent,

which, inter alia, provides for abjugation of agitational methods by the Staff

Unions/Associations for redressal of their grievances. The objective of the

scheme was to promote harmonious relations and of securing the greatest

measure of cooperation between the Government, in its capacity as

employer, and the general body of its employees in matters of common

concern, and with the object of increasing the efficiency of public service. Importantly, the scope of the Joint Councils includes all matters

relating to conditions of service and work, welfare of employees and

improvement of efficiency and standards of work, provided, however, that (i) in regard to matters of recruitment, promotion and discipline,

consultation is limited to matters of general principles only, and (ii)

individual cases are not considered. While the National Council deals only

with matters affecting Central Government employees generally, such as

pay of common categories of staff, allowances, etc., the Departmental

Council deals with matters affecting only the employees in the Page 58 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Ministries/Departments concerned. The Office/Regional Councils deal with

regional or local issues only. Hence, as a matter of policy, Govt. of India has desired that the

recognized Trade unions be associated in taking decisions in relation to

conditions of service and work, improving efficiency and in particular,

standards of work, the aspect that is under dispute in the OA. Respondents

as is seen from material papers placed on the record, have not consulted the

JCM before proceeding with laying down ACSI norms, in accordance with

the GOI policy. The intrinsic reason for formation of JCM was to improve

efficiency in public service and of all the Central Govt. departments. The

JCM is appositely relevant to Postal Department, which is essentially a

labour oriented service department. Therefore, not consulting the JCM,

formed on the recommendations of the 2nd Pay Commission as a policy

measure, has denuded the opportunity to the respondents to garner the

views of the staff side, who work at the field level and have firsthand

experience of the happenings on the ground. Their inputs based on practical

experience would have helped in taking a balanced view in setting up

standards of work, an issue of common concern for both the parties. Indeed,

DOPT vide Memo No.9/13/2000-JCA, dated 12.10.2001, extracted

hereunder, has adduced that the forum of JCM be effectively used to

resolve staff demands/ grievances and to reduce filing of cases before the

Administrative Tribunal. Had the respondents effectively used the tool of

JCM, perhaps the dispute could have been mutually resolved in the JCM. Page 59 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Sub:- Effective use of JCM scheme. A negotiation machinery for Central Government employees was introduced
 in 1966 for setting up of Joint Councils at the National, Departmental and
 Local levels. Over the years a large number of issues have been resolved
 through the mechanism of the Joint Consultative Machinery and
 Compulsory Arbitration. 2. In the 68th Report of Department related Parliamentary Committee on
 Home Affairs on demands for grants (2000-2001), the Committee had inter-
 alia expressed concern about the heavy pendency of cases before the
 Central Administrative Tribunals. In this context they recommended that
 effective use of JCM mechanism and Board of Arbitration be made for
 resolving grievances. This in turn is likely to bring down pendency of cases
 in CAT. 3. In view of the above, it is reiterated that effective use of JCM forum
 may be made for resolution of demands / grievances of staff side, within the
 ambit of rules prescribed for functioning of the JCM machinery.

 Respondents have cited the Postal Directorate letter dated 12.7.1979

& 31.3.1965 to claim that the Unions are debarred from taking up

establishment issues. This contention does not stand to reason because the

decision to down grade does affect the conditions of work, work efficiency

and public service. Moreover, GOI has taken a conscious policy decision to

involve the JCM in matters while evaluating the standards of work. To top

it, DOPT the nodal Ministry on personnel matters has in 2001 and 2002

emphasized the need to take decisions pertaining to staff grievances in

consultation with the JCM as at above and also reduce the filing of cases

before the Tribunal, in pursuance of Parliamentary Committee observation.

The application of ACSI norms will have far reaching impact on the

functional efficiency of the GPOs/HPOs in the country operating in Page 60 of 100 OA No.337/2020 different Geo-socio-cultural backgrounds, requiring tailoring of

appropriate work standards and hence, taking the stakeholders on

board using the medium of JCM would have been a prudent

administrative decision in congruence with the Govt. policy. Therefore,

the respondents' contention that the Unions cannot take up establishment

issues, being contrary to Govt. Policy and the later instructions of the nodal

Ministry, is not maintainable. It would not be wide off the mark, to acclaim

that respondents have violated the GOI policy on consultation with the JCM

in regard to service matters of intrinsic relevance. X. Adhocism: In a matter of vital importance, both to the respondents organization

and public in general, adopting the methodology of adhocism in decision

making process for a long period of time is harmful, is one another

submission of the applicants. Factual matrix of the case indicates that the

establishment norms circulated by Postal Directorate are adhoc and

incomplete, not covering the entire ambit of operational functioning of the

HPOs/GPOs. R-1 has circulated the adhoc norms on 24.5.2019 by studying

a miniscule population of 20 HPOs/GPOs from the total population of 834

units. Some of the branches of the HPOs/GPOs, as admitted by the

respondents, have not been covered by the ACSI norms. Resultantly, local

respondents decided to use a cocktail of available old norms and some

locally evolved norms by the AAO. More than 2 years have elapsed and

the ACSI adhoc norms are understood to have been used, as the

respondents have not pleaded introduction of regular norms, in any of their Page 61 of 100 OA No.337/2020 averments/submissions. The HPOs/GPOs are the major post offices in the

postal network and on them, the sub-post offices and Branch post offices

depend for rendering numerous public services. The postal network has

1,54,965 (Annexure A-XII) post offices, with 834 HPOs/GPOs, 24,776

sub-post office and 1,29,380 branch post offices. From the gargantuan

network we can understand that 1,54,131 post offices depend on the

834 HPOs/GPOs for ensuring that the public members have access to

postal services, all over the country. The figural support has been

taken to drive home the point the importance of these 834 HPOs/GPOs

in maintaining the postal services from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. In

short, they constitute the very foundation of the Postal network and

any review of their status using unreliable and half complete adhoc

norms will be detrimental to the organization and more particularly,

the ability to render public service. Hyderabad-GPO in particular,

because it is not only the embodiment of public service, but also the

major revenue spinner for Telangana Postal Circle and is generally the

harbinger of many a new service in the Circle/Country, as claimed by

the applicants and not repudiated by the respondents. Any

diminishment of their status, under the garb of computerization without

making a comprehensive study as per prescribed procedure will be

dangerous to the very survival of a century old institution touching the life

of mostly the common man, for whom postal service is vital. The postal

organization has a predominant rural presence with 1,39,067 (88.57%) post

offices in rural areas and 15,898 (11.43%) (Annexure A-XII) in urban

areas. To this day, rural populace still trust and depend heavily on the postal Page 62 of 100 OA No.337/2020 network. Thus, changing the status of the HPOs/GPOs in a short sighted

manner using half- baked, undependable and piecemeal adhoc norms will

have a far reaching adverse impact in serving the rural public. India lives

in the rural villages and hence, the need to remain focussed to render

essential public service in this sector, cannot be lost sight of by the

respondents. In addition, adhoc norms are of transient nature and deployed in case

of urgency for a short period and not for many years, obliterating the very

meaning of the word 'adhoc'. Albeit, not in the context of setting up

establishment norms, but while dealing with adhoc appointments/

Promotion, Hon'ble Supreme court has deplored the practice of adhoc

decisions in Suraj Parkash Gupta and others Vs. State of J&K and

others reported as (2000) 7 Supreme Court Cases 561. Further, the

Hon'ble Jammu & Kashmir High Court - Srinagar Bench in Ghulam

Hassan Rather vs Union Territory of J&K & Anr , on 4 August, 2020 in

WP (C) No. 946/2020 (O & M) has observed that adhocism has generated

avoidable litigation and it is the root cause for demoralizing the employees.

The relevant para is extracted hereunder: Among the 134, 11 of them are on deputation, 4 on long leave, 8 are

officiating as APMs (Asst. Post Masters), 1 deputed to Army Postal Service

and 14 are vacant, taking the total deficit in absolute terms in the Postal Page 68 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Assistant cadre to 38 and in percentage terms, it is 28%. In response,

respondents aver that due to review using adhoc ACSI norms, the justified

strength in PA cadre is 91 against sanctioned strength of 136 (134 + 2 LSG)

rendering 45 PA posts surplus. The working strength of PA cadre being

122, the surplus identified official numbering 31 (122-91= 31) were

proposed to be attached to other divisions in the City Region as per the

orders of R-3 referred to, ostensibly to economize establishment

expenditure. The averment of the respondents suffers from the basic flaws

as pointed out in the previous paras relating to the efficacy of sample size,

incompetent authority fixing the work norms and applying old norms in the

absence of the ACSI norms for certain branches of the HPOs. The additional inherent deficiency is not implementing cadre

restructuring in Hyd GPO, under the garb of a non-existent litigation.

Restructuring is an important policy initiative of the respondents providing

for promotions of PAs to the LSG/HSG-I & II cadre across the board.

Denying the same to the PAs of the Hyd-GPO, but for others in the Circle,

is discriminatory by imagining an unreal litigation. It is not out of place to

point out that the respondents were not careful in acting against the interim

order of the Tribunal dated 3.7.2020, which is real, and comically, they

imagine an unreal pending litigation in regard to LSG restructuring with the

Tribunal, which certainly is untrue. Leave apart the comedy, if Cadre

restructuring is implemented, which has to be implemented as per their own

policy, the deficiency will mount steeply with the depletion of PA posts and

the newly created LSG/HSG posts have to be differently calibrated on the

work study front. Hence, respondents overlooking the need to implement Page 69 of 100 OA No.337/2020 cadre restructuring in Hyd-GPO and hastily proceeding with the down

gradation is contrary with the respondents' policy on restructuring and

more so, violating indispensable norms of work study. Whenever there are

more than two policies to be implemented in an organization, they are to be

implemented in a manner complimenting each other and not at the cost of

exclusion of one over the other. Organisational Management portends

postulation of policies, which are mutually inclusive. Even in the case on

the hand, LSG restructuring and establishment review are mutually

inclusive and one cannot be taken up by excluding the other, whatever

reasons the respondents may like to propound. Any action of the local respondents which does not subscribe to the

well laid down policies that are interrelated and associated rules, will stand

invalidated. Legally speaking decisions that are incongruent with the

policies and allied rules of the respondents' organization are to be curbed

and snubbed as per the Hon'ble Supreme Court observations cited at para

7(iv) supra. XII. GPOs vs. HPOs: R-3 issued the memo attaching surplus PA posts to different city postal

divisions on 6.5.2020. R-4 accordingly initiated action vide letters dated

9.5.2020, 26.5.2020 & 29.5.2020 directing the identified officials found

surplus to let known their options by 14.5.2020, 21.5.2020 & 27.05.2020

and immediately, as per letters cited. Unions wrote on 7.4.2020, 11.05.2020

& 14.5.2020 and yet respondents without replying to the unions have issued

orders dated 6.5.2020, 09.05.2020, 26.5.2020 & 29.5.2020 setting into

motion the attachment of alleged surplus staff to the different city postal

divisions. The Unions are recognized by the Govt. of India under the Trade Page 77 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Union Act of 1926 and one among the many roles they play, is to voice the

grievance of the staff when administrative decisions are taken without

adhering to statutory rules and policies of the respondents organization. Ld.

Counsel for the applicants has submitted that there are umpteen number of

instructions from R-1 to ensure that the representations of the Trade Unions

in regard to service matters are replied promptly. A typical example of such

instruction can be seen in letter No.SR/5-2/5/20 dated 18th Aug' 21 of the

office of the CPMG, Tamil Nadu Circle, Chennai wherein, they have cited

the Postal Directorate Letter No.31-3-/66-SR dated 24th Nov. 1966 stressing

upon the importance of responding to the Union letters. The relevant

paragraph from the letter of the Tamil Nadu Postal Circle is extracted

hereunder: The need and importance of Trade unions is well rooted in Article 19 of the Constitution. Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution of India, which

envisages Fundamental Right to freedom of speech and expression also

guarantees the country's citizens the right "to form associations or unions" 3. In regard to representations of the type mentioned at (1) and (2) above,
if the individual has not received a reply thereto within a month of its
submission, he could address, or ask for an interview with the next higher
officer for redress of his grievances. Such superior officer should
immediately send for the papers and take-such action as may be called for,
without delay 4. Representations of the type mentioned at (3) above, would be made
generally only in cases where there is no provision under the statutory,
Jules or orders for making appeals or petitions. Such representations also
should be dealt with as expeditiously as possible. The provisions of the
preceding paragraph would apply to such representations also, but not to
later representations made by 'the same Government servant on the same
subject after his earlier representation has been disposed off
appropriately. 5. In regard to the representations of the type mentioned at (4) above,
although the relevant rules or orders do not prescribe a time limit for Page 80 of 100 OA No.337/2020 disposing of appeals and petitions by the competent authority, it should be
 ensured that all such appeals and petitions receive prompt attention and
 are disposed within a reasonable time, If it is anticipated that an appeal or
 a petition cannot be disposed of within a month of its submission, an
 acknowledgement or an interim reply should be sent to the individual
 within a month. 6. The instructions contained in paragraph 2 of this Ministry's Office
 Memorandum No. 118/52-Ests. Dated the 30th April, 1952, will stand
 modified to the extent indicated in the paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 above."

 The first representation was submitted on 7.4.2020 and till the date

of filing the OA on 25.6.2020, without disposing the same, respondents

went ahead with the decision to displace the surplus identified officials as

per their orders cited supra, violating the DOPT order referred to above.

Respondents' contention that before they could respond to the

representations the OA was filed is factually incorrect since representations

were submitted before any decision was taken by the respondents and as

per DOPT instruction, disposal of the representation was paramount before

taking a decision on the matter. Respondents have thus acted against the

nodal Ministry instructions in regard to the disposal of representations. Any

action taken against rules is unlawful as was brought out in the paras supra.

Therefore, decisions of the respondents dated 6.5.2020, 9.5.2020, 26.5.2020

& 29.5.2020 lack validity for not adhering to the DOPT instruction cited

and for violating law relating to adherence of rules. Furthermore, disposal of a representation will reveal the mind of the

decision maker enabling the dispute resolution to proceed accordingly. By

not disposing the representation, unions would be ignorant of the Page 81 of 100 OA No.337/2020 disposition of the respondents in regard to the issue raised and such an

approach is desecration of the Principles of Natural Justice. Every

administrative authority empowered to pass an order which is likely to

adversely affect the interests of individuals is required to record

reasons and communicate the same as per the recognized facets of rules

of Natural Justice. If not done, the order passed against which a

representation is pending, is vitiated. Non disposal of representation of

the Trade Unions is therefore violative of Principles of Natural Justice.

Our remarks are supported by the observation of the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in G. Vallikumari v. Andhra Education Society ,(2010) 2 SCC

497, as under : 7.4.2020, 11.05.2020 & 14.5.2020. The orders of R-3 & R-4 are not backed

by reasons justifying the decision taken. In particular, the order dated

6.5.2020 which is crucial, reads that based on Chief Post Master report,

the decision was taken. What did the report state, its evaluation against Page 82 of 100 OA No.337/2020 existing rules and thereupon the sound reasons for attaching certain number

of posts to city divisions are conspicuously absent in the order. Hence,

decisions taken by the respondents to displace staff members as a

consequence of proposed down gradation, without disposal of

representations and issuing orders bereft of reasons are against rules and

law, making them legally invalid. XIV. Inconsistent stances by the Respondents: Understanding the implication of the applicants submission, it appears

respondents have changed their stand, by stating that they would like to

divert the Group A post to upgrade Khammam Postal Division from Group

B to Group A. To this extent, the respondents stated in MA No. 317/2020

as under: This approach of the respondents is faulty on two grounds, primarily for

being inconsistent in their decision making approach and secondarily

Khammam Postal Divisional Office is again an administrative office like

Hyderabad City region. The contention made by the applicants is that

operative offices should not be deprived of justified posts at the cost of

providing manpower to administrative offices. For a moment, though not

admitted, presuming that the city regional office or the Khammam

Divisional office required a Group 'A' post, it was incumbent upon the Page 84 of 100 OA No.337/2020 respondents to justify that these offices badly needed the post over Hyd-

GPO with facts and figures. The thrust of the arguments of the applicants/

Ld. Counsel for the applicants, that the operative offices are to be given

priority in respect of establishment matters because of their direct interface

with the public, has not been effectively countered by the respondents in

their pleadings/submissions. We did not find any justification coming forth

from the respondents except for making very general statements. We agree

with the applicants that offices of first call for the public members have to

be given precedence in filling/creation of posts. Besides, decisions by

public authorities are to be consistent. The stand of the respondents has

been mercurial. In the course of the adjudication of the dispute, it has been

changing and is thus unfair. It amply indicates that respondents are not

clear in their mind as to how to use the Group A post if found to be

really surplus. Lack of clarity of mind in taking administrative

decisions will result in arbitrary decisions that cannot be upheld under

law. Inconsistency is like the ocean storm which may sink the ship of

the respondents' organization, if the rudder of consistency is not

properly held, to be on course to the shore. Consistency in decision

making is a virtue which is essential to be cultivated as observed by the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Secy., State of Karnataka vs. K. Umadevi (2006) 4

SCC 1, at para 20, as under: From the facts, we find the respondents were more inconsistent than

being consistent in regard to prioritizing the priorities intertwined with

public interest. XV Policy Matter

The curtains on the dispute can be drawn only after the contention of the

Ld. Senior Standing Counsel for respondents that the Tribunal cannot

interfere in policy matters is properly answered. The defence albeit singular

has immense legal significance. Before we get into the knitty-gritty of the

contention, it would be beneficial to cite the key judgments, as under, of the

Hon'ble Apex Court, in respect of policy matters: c. Constitutional Bench judgment in Ashoka Kumar Thakur v. Union of
 India & Others , (2008) 6 SCC 1: Application of mind is best demonstrated by disclosure of mind by
 the authority making the order. And disclosure is best done by
 recording the reasons that led the authority to pass the order in
 question. Absence of reasons either in the order passed by the
 authority or in the record contemporaneously maintained is clearly
 suggestive of the order being arbitrary hence legally unsustainable.

 There being a directional gap from R-1 in regard to the action to be

taken in respect of branches for which ACSI norms were not evolved, an

incompetent authority viz. R-2, arbitrarily got developed the norms for a

key branch like the accounts branch. Besides, R-2 to R-4 used available old

norms for other branches without the approval of R-1. Hence there is a

distinct jurisdictional error. Law does not recognize orders of

incompetent authorities to be valid. The important aspect to be noted is

that R-1 gave approval for the down gradation without application of mind,

albeit it was brazenly evident that elements not contained in the policy were

acted upon to cause the down gradation of Hyd-GPO. Fundamentally,

allowing policy aberrations to be acted upon for arriving at a result which is Page 89 of 100 OA No.337/2020 not in agreement with the innate policy clauses, by the policy laying body,

would strike at the very validity of the policy and make it defunct. Further, the norms were laid by studying only HPOs and not GPOs.

Therefore, applying HPO norms to GPOs without studying the latter was

found to be incorrect, for reasons elaborated in the preceding paras. This is

a fundamental flaw in the policy. Carrots cannot be compared with

cauliflower, though both are vegetables but each has a distinctive

composition and character. Every order of the respondents has to be a reasoned order. The

respondents failed to answer as to whether human contribution in operating

the computers was considered, although the applicants came up with

quantitative figures to prove that there was enormous gap in the time

factors indicated in ACSI norms and actually observed in the day to day

field operations. Respondents not responding to this important contention is

an admission that the human contribution has not been given due credence

as is required to make the norm justifiably workable. Hence, a policy

ignoring the core elements on which it has to be based, gets apparently

termed as defective and non- operable. Any policy framed has to be in public interest and in the instant case,

it was found to work the other way of largely undermining public interest at

depths equivalent to that of the Mariana trench of the Pacific Ocean. The

way it was compromised was explained in depth in the relevant para above

and we would not like to repeat the same. Page 90 of 100 OA No.337/2020 Importantly, the JCM has to be consulted in developing work norms

as per the policy of the GOI referred to above . Directions of the

Parliamentary committee and DOPT instructions are forceful that JCM has

to be taken on Board. Any new policy has to be evolved based on the

existing rules and policies and not violating them. The present one has been

framed infringing rules and existing policy of the respondents' organization

of consulting JCM, and therefore can have no legal approval. A policy is advanced on a regular basis and not on an adhoc basis.

Even if was initiated on an adhoc basis, it has to attain regularity at the

earliest and continuing the adhoc policy for years, as seen in the present

case, is censured under law. Adhocism as an instrument of administration

has been adversely commented by the Hon'ble Apex Court as pointed out

in the preceding paras. Therefore, considering the above, the policy of laying down

ACSI norms is flawed for being arbitrary, irrational, reasonless and

with total lack of application of mind writ large on its evolution. Hence

as per the observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court cited supra, the

Tribunal is endowed with the power to intervene and declare that the

policy document of respondents dated 24.5.2019 is not in accordance

with law. In addition, we have also observed that many unacceptable

angularities in the implementation of the policy by the respondents like

not disposing the representations of the unions, contravening the

interim order of the Tribunal dated 3.7.2020, incompetent authorities Page 91 of 100 OA No.337/2020 issuing orders beyond their jurisdiction in developing and applying

norms not contained in the policy, local respondents acting beyond

their brief in initiating the displacement of staff, overlooking LSG

restructuring that has serious ramifications to down gradation, failing

to provide evidence as to whether other GPOs in the country were

subjected to similar review as was done for Hyd-GPO etc. have crept

in, while implementing the defective policy. Thus, there are many

fallacies even in implementing the flawed policy. On both fronts ie laying

down of the policy and implementing it, the respondents have not come out

with flying colours. We say no more on the aspect touched upon.

XVI. Violation of Articles 14 & 16 of the Constitution: Continuing our observations, we are of the view that in an act

that is arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal as per

constitutional law and is, therefore violative of Article 14 , and since

the dispute on hand deals with an issue of public employment, it also

oversteps Article 16 of the Constitution. We have drawn our above

conclusion drawing support from the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court

in Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam v. Bachan Singh , (2009) 14

SCC 793, wherein it was held as under:- one belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the
 whim and caprice of an absolute monarch. Where an act is
 arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to
 political logic and constitutional law and is, therefore, violative of Article 14 , and if it affects any matter relating to public
 employment, it is also violative of Article 16. Articles 14 and 16 strike at arbitrariness in State action and ensure fairness and
 equality of treatment." The dispute resolution would not end, unless we specifically

observe that there is a self- evident error in the policy of the

respondents by not developing ACSI norms for all the branches of the Page 93 of 100 OA No.337/2020 HPO though claimed to have done vide R-1 letter dated 24.5.2019.

Further, the letter is clear that only ACSI norms are authorized to be

applied, but not any other norms. The yardstick framed by R-1 ought to

have been followed by R-2 to R-4, but they did not. Even, there is no scope

to interpret the letter in any other manner, since it is plain and

understandably the language prevails, as observed by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in (1974) 1 SCR 589. Either, one has to apply the ACSI norms and if

not, revert to the competent authority for guidance, is the legal prerequisite.

Deviant action, as initiated by R-2 to R-4 in the disputed issue is legally

invalid. In addition, no reasonable person would have contemplated to

develop norms which he is not authorized to do as was done by R-2 in the

instant case. This has led to manifest injustice caused to the applicants,

since local respondents R-3 & R-4 proposed dispersal of assumed surplus

posts and staff, by following questionable procedures and exceeding their

jurisdiction. For reasons stated, the administrative decision of downgrading

Hyd-GPO is wrong in law and has to be directed to be corrected by the

Tribunal through the process of judicial review. While making the above

remarks, we take support of the Hon'ble Gujarat High Court in Nanuki

Prasad vs Union of India on 12 September, 2018 in R/SCR.A/2192/2010,

as under: Therefore, since the decision of the respondents to downgrade Hyd-

GPO by framing a policy which has been found to be irrational, arbitrary,

lacking reason and application of mind for whys and wherefores explained

at length in the background of Hon'ble Supreme Court judgments and also

even the process followed in implementing the policy was evidently legally

impoverished for being similarly arbitrary, discriminatory, irrational with Page 95 of 100 OA No.337/2020 total non-application of mind, the outcome can be none other than an illegal

outcome. The end or goal of an administrative decision has to be

legitimate and constitutional and if not, it shall have to be declared as

illegal. Unfortunately, in the instant case, the end goal to down grade Hyd-

GPO coupled with the displacement of staff suffers from the vices of

arbitrariness, irrationality, discrimination, unfairness, non-application of

mind etc., thereby is not consistent with the letter and spirit of the

Constitution and hence not constitutional. For stating what we did above,

we rely on the observations of the Hon'ble Apex Court in State of Kerala

v. N.M. Thomas , (1976) 2 SCC 310, at page 356 , wherein it was held as

under: XIX. Conclusion: