SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: TIFU ...Shit Happens
DATE: 2019-04-25
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/bhbz8n/tifu_shit_happens/

--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR : lazy student ki atmakatha ...kripya poori kahani padhein

As the title suggests , let me tell you today's story.....

Gaur se suniye

I am doing masters in distance learning / virtual classroom mode from a Tier-1 Univ/Institute.

A prof. gave us assignment to do . She divided us in various group of 4 peoples.

In our case , I was from Delhi, a girl from Chennai, an air force man from Extreme Rajasthan border, a NE guy .

We need to select an assignment out of 4 options.

Obviously all of us were sleeping (not together).

When the deadline arrived ( for selecting a topic ) we woke up and 3 of us ( me, chennai grill, NE guy) chose a topic and promised to work on it.Rajasthan guy is mising.

All went on sleeping again...

Then the deadline came for submission of report and me , Chennai and Rajasthan woke up and cooked a pdf from copy paste from internet sites . NE guy is totally missing. In fact I did nothing, Rajasthan did nothing but Chennai , being a woman did everything.

Yesterday , I had to call everyone to inform that today we are having a presentation early morning at 8:30 AM . All had lost interest but we came to know from Chennai that it is 8:30 PM actually.

Today , I came from office at 6 PM. Didn't feel like doing anything. Went through half of pdf and left everything on God ( i am atheist btw)

My internet connection is fuc**** for a few days and i need to reboot my router every 30 mins.

Finally its 8 . My wifi is playing games. Suddenly the frequency of failure has increased and so is my anxiety level. Don't know what to do. NE guy has disappeared .

At 8:45 PM our presentation starts . My wifi is playing trciks. I scolded my kids and wife . I asked my wife to be near power switch and do rebooting everytime internet is down.

Presentation has started . Chennai is saying something. I don't know the shit. rajasthan picks up and says something. I haave lost it. My turn arrives. I don't know what to do. I had prepared a ppt 10 minutes before presentation and trying to read the slides. Prof is agitated . My internet is down. We already know that a mojor part of the assignment ( integration of tools with a simulator ) has not been done . We don't have any idea , nor do any plan to escape. We have surrendered. The NE guy is missing. Prof said she will give zero marks to him. I become a chuti** again and cooks up a story that he is on elction duty and posted somewhere remote in NE and that's why absent. she agrees to award him a few marks. She asks me what I have concluded from the assignment. I cooked a story again about a MNC hospital , their pharma , their diagnostic dept,their OPD and everything , and how everything needs to be networked and monitored for smooth health care and no data breaching is tolerated (never knew my talent). She is tired of shit and says thanks to us for our wonderful work. I again apologise about network failure and tells her about my wife switching on/off wifi router. She LOLed . Its over.

The air force guy is chill. I am confused. The Chennai girl is disappointed as usual. NE fella is probably having beer in Myanmar . I saved a NE guy ( give me gold ).

Moral of the story : Life is shit. story telling is ass cleaner .