Heard Shri Brijesh Sahai, learned Senior Advocate assisted by Shri Manoj Kumar Srivastava, learned counsel for the applicant, Shri Jitendra Kumar Shishodia for opposite party no.2 and Shri Jhamman Ram, the learned A.G.A for the State. 2.	This application under Section 482 Cr.P.C is filed to quash the summoning order dated 9.6.2000 passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, in Criminal Case No.1609 of 2000 M/s R.P. Sales vs. A C E Prints and Packs Pvt. Ltd. 3.	In brief the facts are that the opposite party no.2 filed a complaint under Section 138 N.I. Act and 420 I.P.C dated 6.4.2000 against the applicant and two others. It is alleged in the complaint that the (accused-opposite party no.2) issued a cheque for Rs.1,95,000/- in favour of complainant in discharge of his liability for payment of raw-material supplied by the complainant's firm to the opposite party's firm. It is further alleged that when the cheque was presented it was dis-honoured by the Bank on 22.2.2000 due to insufficiency of funds. The complainant received the cheque from courier service which contains over writing in collusion with the opposite parties. The opposite parties with dishonest intention for committing fraud has issued a cheque which could not be cashed. Legal notice was issued through registered post on 7.3.2000 but the opposite parties neither given any reply nor paid the amount. After inquiry under Section 200 and 202 Cr.P.C the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate vide order dated 9.6.2000 finding that primafacie case under Section 138 N.I. Act and 420 I.P.C is made out, has summoned all the three accused of complaint including applicant for trial. 4.	The submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant are that the Bank has shown the reason for return of the cheque is at point no.21 of the memo and that is the alteration in date requires drawer's attestation. The Bank memo for the return of the impugned cheque does not state the reason of return as insufficiency of funds. It is also contended that in complaint it is alleged that cheque was dishonoured due to insufficiency of funds but the complainant in his legal notice has not mentioned that the cheque was returned due to insufficiency of funds rather indicated that cheque was such that it was to be dishonoured as it was over written. The witnesses examined by the complainant under Section 200 and 202 Cr.P.C have also not mentioned in their statements that the cheque was dishonoured due to insufficiency of the funds. In absence of the evidence in this respect the allegations of the First Information Report does not stand corroborated. Learned counsel vehemently contended that a proceeding under Section 138 N.I. Act can be instituted only for dishonour of cheque due to insufficiency of funds. While in this case the cheque has not been dishonoured due to insufficiency of funds but due to reason that there was overwriting on its date and it was torn, so drawers' attestation is required. It has also been contended that the impugned cheque was not of a saving bank or a current account. It was of a cash credit account which has the facility to pay the cheque upto the sanctioned limit to the parties. It is also one of the grounds of application that no material was supplied by the complainant to applicant for which they have taken the cheque as advanced payment and right to claim payment of the impugned cheque did not accrue to them. The cheque was a post dated cheque which was mis-used by the opposite party no.2. Learned counsel also contended that the learned Magistrate has failed to consider the legal aspect that dishonour of cheque was not due to insufficiency of funds and illegally summoned the applicant under Section 138 N.I. Act. The continuation of the proceedings before the Magistrate is nothing but an abuse of the process of the court. 5.	Learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 contended that opposite party no.2 has supplied the material to the applicant and the applicant has given a cheque. The date and contents of the cheque was admitted by the applicant in second supplementary dated 6.8.2018 and a certified copy of the cheque has been annexed by the applicant. From its perusal it is apparent that on the back side of the cheque it is written that paper supplied on 16.7.1999. Therefore it is clear that cheque was given in lieu of the paper supplied and it was not post dated. In reply to paragraph nos. 5, 8 and 9 to the notice, the applicant has admitted the transaction with the opposite party no.2 and this fact has further been admitted in paragraph nos. 11 and 14 of petition. Now he is estopped from saying that cheque is post dated and no material was supplied and there was no liability. It is also contended by the learned counsel for the opposite party no.2 that the applicant intentionally given the cheque of a particular account in which he was not having money and procured the material from the opposite party no.2 dishonestly and thereafter with the connivance of Bank Manager has made over writing in the cheque in question. This fact is very much mentioned in the complaint by the opposite party no.2 and in the affidavit of opposite party no.2 under Section 200 Cr.P.C and in statement of P.W-1 Vijay Singh and P.W-2 Devendra Pratap under Section 202 of Cr.P.C. Therefore, the offence under Section 420 is also made out along with offence under Section 138 N.I. Act. It is also contended that one of the reason for dishonour of cheque is insufficiency of funds also which is ticked by the Bank in the memo. So it cannot be said that no offence under Section 138 N.I. Act is made out. 6.	From the perusal of the order sheet it appears that after hearing the parties arguments at some length, this court on 20.2.2019 has held that all the ingredients of Section 138 N.I. Act as considered by he Apex Court in the case of Jugesh Sehgal vs. Shamsher Singh Gogi 2009 (14) SCC 683 has been made out in cumulative. The conclusion of the learned counsel for the applicant that since it was a post dated cheque the liability was a future liability and it had not accrued on the date of presentation of the cheque is misconceived. It is also mentioned in the aforesaid order that at this stage learned counsel for the applicant submitted that an opportunity be provided to the applicant to repay the money to discharge his liability. So this defence has already been considered and rejected by this court. 7.	The memo of the bank shows more than one reason for dishonour of the cheque and one of the reason is insufficiency of funds which is mentioned in the complaint also. The other arguments as assailed by the learned counsel for the applicant are matter of trial which can not be considered and adjudicated at this stage in a proceeding under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Further it is pertinent to mention that the summoning of the accused is not only for offence under Section 138 N.I. Act but applicant-accused has been summoned for offence under Section 420 I.p.C also. No argument has been raised by the learned counsel for the applicant regarding summoning of the accused-applicant for offence under Section 420 I.P.C. Hence the entire proceedings of complaint case cannot be quashed. 8.	It is settled principle of that at this stage only primafacie case is to be seen as laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd. vs. Mohd. Saraful Haq and another (Para-10) 2005 SCC (Cr.) 283. 9. In case of 'State of Haryana and others Vs. Ch. Bhajan Lal and others ', in Civil Appeal No.5412 of 1990, decided on 21.11.1990, the Hon'ble Apex Court in paragraph no.108 has laid down following norms for exercising powers under section 482 Cr.P.C.":- 10.	From the material on record, it is clear that this case does not come under any of the categories as mentioned by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the aforesaid case. There is nothing on record to show that the continuation of the proceedings is an abuse of the process of the court. There is no illegality in the impugned summoning order. 11.	This application under Section 482 Cr.P.C is devoid of merits and is hereby dismissed. Order Date :- 26.4.2022
 
Rakesh