SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Came back to India last year after 10 years in US, getting depressed by everything in this COVID crisis and how society and system is acting. What should I do?
DATE: 2021-05-14
SCORE: 19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/nc3sno/came_back_to_india_last_year_after_10_years_in_us/

--- POST TEXT ---

Came back last year to be closer to parents. However, never had the chance to leave home since then due to COVID. Interviews, on-boarding and work everything from home. My home is in North India or the so called "Hindi Heartland". 

Initially was really happy when I came here and thought was best decision of my life. However, with time this determination of mine is in tatters. I am in process of applying for Canadian PR. However, due to COVID even that process is slow and might take 10 months to 1 year to make it happen. 

Even after staying here for more than 16 months, I keep feeling sad when I see social media with people begging for oxygen, medicines, beds, ventilators and what not, while political core of the country is intent on playing blame games of center and states. On top of that, the morally corrupt society is full of stories of different scams - oxygen scams, medicine scams and have heard even the vaccine scams where they mix it with water. I went to a hospital today and doctor told that his 4 year old kid can have COVID and get him tested as his grandparents have COVID. Even after that, the mother kept carrying her kid all around the hospital, his kid kept coughing and he had no mask on. 

I have become suffocated with time. When I came from US, I was full of optimism and "to do attitude". Now really overwhelmed by whats going around, I cannot even focus on work. I even started driving here a bit, just in case if I have to because system cannot be trusted. Even if I am paying more than 9 lacs of direct income tax a year, on top of that GST and customs, I cannot expect anything back from the system. 

Since I was out of India for 10 years, I hardly have any friends in India and sometimes feel lost. The local friends I have, hard to fit in with them. They are still so pro government, sharing daily shit on WhatsApp of how well government is managing COVID and how it is all state government and people fault. In my lane itself, there are 15 houses out with which 7 houses have known COVID cases. 

I had a heated conversation with my father today who was being careless on few things. He said government has done everything and its people fault and he is tired of being told what to do and he would never step foot in my house (Given I would move out of India eventually). I sometimes feel sad, I got stuck here, I came here to be closer to my parents as I was worried about them and didnt marry (I am 30) because if I had got married in US, my spouse might not have been interested to move back to India. 

&amp;#x200B;

Sometimes I dont know what to think. Thank you