SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Haryana Roadways Scam?
DATE: 2015-08-07
SCORE: 11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3g4wt0/haryana_roadways_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

Alright well, so something pretty disturbing happened with me today while I was aboard a public transportation bus and headed back home this afternoon. And I've decided to narrate the incident here so that I can get to hear your opinions and maybe decide on whether or not it was a scam. I'm also interested in knowing if similar experiences have occurred with anyone here.

So I've basically just passed 12th and am taking classes at a cram school for JEE preparations in Delhi, I live in Gurgaon. Every weekday morning I take a bus to the Metro Station and then take a Metro train to my destination, in the afternoon, I do the reverse to get back home. It's usually always boring and kinda peaceful travelling, except it wasn't today.

So while I was returning home today afternoon, aboard the bus like I said, something happened. I boarded the bus like every fellow passenger and took up a seat in the back. I reached for my pocket, took out 20 Rs. for the bus fare and then sat in my seat, holding the bills in my hand and waiting for the conductor to give me my ticket. For some unexplained reason, the conductor came towards the back of the bus, and gave a ticket to EVERYONE sitting around me but didn't give one to me, what was bizarre was the fact that there were merely 4-5 people sitting around me, so it was kinda weird to reason out that he didn't notice me sitting there. Anyhow, he turned his back towards me, and then walked away. I felt like calling him back and asking him for my ticket, but I felt too tired from the day to muster up the energy for a shout, moreover it was kinda obvious that he was going to return back when more people get aboard the bus on the next stop and ask for a ticket. This was the mistake.

So the next stop comes and 5-6 old men, in their 50s or 60s approximately get aboard the bus. And weirdly, one of them looks straight towards me, taps my shoulder and goes,"Hanji, ticket dikhao zaraa." I looked at him, and said, "Bhaisaab conductor ne diya nahi ab tak." He looked at the bills in my hand, went towards the conductor and after having a quick chat with him came back and held my arm in his grip and started pulling me off the chair, "Chal be, utar bus se." I got up and walked a few steps with him as he kept his grip, and then after realizing what was going on, I said, "Arey Bhaisaab, kya hua aap batao toh?" He raised his voice and said, "Bina ticket ke kaise baitha hua hai? Chal jaldi bus se utar!" He instructed the driver to open the doors and after a few minutes of me helplessly inquiring about the issue and asking the conductor why he didn't give me the ticket while I was sitting at the back and getting nothing but a blank face, the group of old men stepped off the bus with me. 

One of them kept pulling my bag and eventually took it from my back, I was still not sure what exactly was going on and why had I been taken off the bus for not buying a ticket instead of just being instructed to buy it when I was found without one? The men proceeded to bully me in their Haryanvi tone, one of them showed me a receipt book with 500 Rs. written on it and said, "Jurmaana dena padega, 500 rupia, chal nikal jaldi se!" I told them that I had only 30 Rs. on me as I carried no more than the bus and metro fare on my school trips. They refused to believe me, opened my bag, asked me to take out my purse and show them, after ransacking both they found nothing more than 30 Rs. This made them furious, by this time I had sorta regained my mind and asked them who exactly were they? They said they were from the roadways and a surprise check was being done. Then they asked me to call home and ask for someone to come and deliver the money and then take me away, I said that it wasn't possible because my brother wasn't at home and my father was at work in Delhi. This made one of the oldies so furious that he said, "Abhi police ko bulao! Ise toh jail bhejenge." I was sorta frightened, and then they began making remarks on my education, my mental stability and continued with more disturbing remarks, "Abey tu kya unpadh gawar hai? Tu kya pagal hai jo pehli baar bus mein chadha hai? Tujhe pata nahi kiraya dena hota hai? England se aaya hai kya be?" This continued for about 20 minutes and then seeking no way out, one of them said, "Chal tu sharif ladka lagta hai, aaj toh tujhe chod rahe hain, agli baar dhyan rakhiyo, koi mini bus ya auto leke nikal jaa." And that was exactly what I did. 

So that's what happened, but the thing is, while going over the whole matter again on my way back, everything suddenly appeared 'planned and executed' to me, the way the old men made sure to get aboard the next bus stop so that the conductor wouldn't make another round of ticket issuing in the bus, and how none of the guys showed me any IDs or were accompanied by any police officer for the possible event of me making a run for it. It also seemed possible that they in fact were from the roadways and had some sort of agreement with the conductor to leave one guy ticketless until the next stop so that they could collect the hefty fine. But it's all theory here, so I'd like to hear your opinions on this matter too.