BRIEF STATEMENT OF FACTS AND REASONS FOR THE
 DECISION 1. Vide this judgment, this court shall dispose of the
 aforementioned complaint case filed by the complainant
 namely, M/s Amazon Distributors (P) Ltd. against the
 Accused Parveen in respect of the dishonour of one cheque
 bearing no.073389 dated 30.06.2019 for an amount of Rs.
 46,473/- (Rs. Forty Six Thousand Four Hundred Seventy
 Three only) drawn on Axis Bank Ltd. D.B Gupta Road,
 New Delhi-110005 (hereinafter referred to as the "Cheque
 in question"). 2. Pithily put, it is the case of the complainant company that
 the complainant is distributor of products of Kellogs, P&G.
 It is further case of the complainant that the accused was
 working with the complainant as Sales Executive from
 06.10.2018 and it was his duty to get the orders from the
 customers, to get delivered the booked goods to customers,
 to collect the payment of delivered goods from the
 customers and to deposit the payment with the
 complainant. 3. It is further the case of the complainant that the accused
 used to book fake orders in the name of different customers
 in order to cheat the complainant and used to put forged
 stamp on the invoices of delivered goods in order to prove
 the delivery of goods to the customers. It is further alleged
 that the accused has cheated a sum of Rs. 22,24,019/- from
 the complainant in conspiracy with his accomplices and has
 admitted that he has cheated a sum of Rs. 23,64,091/- out
 of which he got recovered goods of Rs. 2,23,000/-. POONAM SINGH
 Date: 4. It is further the case of the complainant that in discharge of
 his aforesaid debt and liability, the accused had issued the
 cheque in question for an amount of Rs.46,473/- in favour
 of the complainant company and when the same was
 presented for encashment, it was returned dishonored with
 remarks "funds insufficient" and no payment was made to
 the complainant company even after 15 days of service of
 legal demand notice upon the accused and hence the
 complainant company moved this court with the present
 complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments
 Act, 1881 (hereinafter referred to as the " NI Act "). 5. In the pre-summoning evidence, AR of complainant
 company i.e. CW-1 examined himself on affidavit being
 Ex. CW1/A and placed on record certain documents i.e.
 certificate of incorporation being Ex.CW1/1 (OSR),
 minutes of meeting of board resolution being Ex.CW1/2,
 Copy of DL of AR being Ex.CW1/3 (OSR), Copy of
 appointment letter of the accused being Ex.CW1/4 (OSR)
 (Colly), Copy of admission letter dated 07.07.2019 being
 Ex.CW1/6, Original cheque in question being Ex.CW1/7,
 Bank return memo being Ex.CW1/8, Copy of police
 complaints being Mark A (Colly), Legal demand notice
 being Ex.CW1/10 (Colly), Postal along with courier
 receipts being Ex.CW1/11 and Tracking report being Ex.
 CW1/12. 6. Upon prima facie consideration of the pre-summoning
 evidence, the accused was summoned vide order dated
 10.03.2021. 7. Upon appearance of the accused, notice under Section 251 Cr.P.C. was served upon him on 17.10.2022 to which he CC No.12917/19 Page 3 of 15 Digitally signed POONAM SINGH
 by POONAM

 SINGH Date: 2024.12.18
 17:11:57 +0530
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. At this stage, he
 admitted being the drawer of the cheque in question as well
 as his signatures therein. He stated that the cheque in
 question was issued as a security cheque in favour of the
 complainant company when he was appointed as Sales
 Executive of the complainant company. He further stated
 that his job was only to bring orders from the customers to
 the complainant. He denied his liability towards the
 complainant company. 8. At this stage, admission and denial of documents under Section 294 Cr.P.C was conducted whereby the accused
 admitted the genuineness and correctness of the cheque in
 question, bank return memo, legal demand notice, original
 postal and courier receipt and tracking report. 9. After an oral application under Section 145 (2) NI Act
 moved on behalf of the accused was allowed, the AR of the
 complainant was re-called for his examination. He adopted
 his evidence at the post summoning stage. He was duly
 cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the accused and
 discharged. Since no other witness was sought to be
 examined by the complainant company, complainant
 evidence was closed vide separate statement of the AR of
 complainant company dated 19.07.2024. 10.Thereafter, statement of accused under Section 313 read
 with Section 281 Cr.P.C was recorded whereby the entire
 incriminating evidence was put to him. At this stage, the
 accused primarily maintained his plea of defence raised at
 the stage of framing of notice under Section 251 Cr.P.C.
 The accused stated that he was appointed as Sales CC No.12917/19 Page 4 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 Date: 11.Since the accused chose not to lead defence evidence, the
 matter was adjourned for advancement of final arguments. 12.Final arguments were heard and concluded on behalf of
 both the parties on 29.11.2024 and written submissions
 were also filed on behalf of the accused. 13.Rival submissions have been considered and record of the
 case has been carefully perused. 14.Defence of the accused is two-fold. Firstly; that he did not
 receive the legal demand notice. Secondly; that there is no
 legally enforceable debt or liability to the tune of the
 amount of the cheque in question in favour of the
 complainant and against the accused as on the date of its
 drawl or presentation. 15.Before delving into the facts of the present case, it is
 relevant to discuss the law applicable to the present
 proceedings. To bring home a liability under Section 138 of
 the NI Act, following elements must spring out from the
 averments in the complaint and the evidence adduced by
 the complainant, which are: 16.Once the other ingredients mentioned in the foregoing
 paragraph are established by the complainant, then as soon
 as the execution of cheque in question is admitted by the
 accused, a factual base is established to invoke the
 presumption of cheque having been issued in discharge, in
 whole or in part, of any debt or other liability by virtue of Section 118(a) read with Section 139 of NI Act. This is a
 reverse onus clause, which means that unless the contrary is
 proved, it shall be presumed that the cheques in question
 were drawn by the accused for a consideration and that the
 complainant had received it in discharge of a debt/ liability
 from the accused. In the case titled Bir Singh Vs. Mukesh
 Kumar , (2019) 4 SCC 197, it was held by Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India that once the accused has admitted the
 signatures on the cheque in question, then the court is
 bound to raise presumption under Section 139 NI Act. 17. In the present case, in order to discharge his initial burden
 to prove the aforementioned ingredients, AR of the
 complainant relied upon the complaint, his own evidence
 affidavit i.e. Ex.CW1/A and placed on record several
 documents being Ex.CW1/1 (OSR) to Ex.CW1/12. Ld.
 Counsel for the complainant submitted that the accused has CC No.12917/19 Page 6 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 2024.12.18
 17:12:10 +0530
 already admitted his signatures on the cheque in question
 and hence presumption of the cheque in question having
 been issued in discharge of debt or other liability arises in
 favour of the complainant in terms of Section 118(a) read
 with Section 139 of NI Act. He further argued that the
 accused has also admitted the genuineness and correctness
 of the bank return memo i.e. Ex.CW1/8 and cheque in
 question being Ex. CW1/7 and his address on the legal
 demand notice being Ex. CW1/10. He argued that the fact
 that the complainant company received no payment within
 15 days of the service of the legal demand notice coupled
 with the admission of the accused, duly proves all the
 ingredients of the offence under Section 138 NI Act. He
 thus submitted that since all the ingredients laid down
 under Section 138 NI Act are fulfilled, the accused should
 be convicted. DEFENCE OF NON-RECEIPT OF LEGAL DEMAND
 NOTICE 18.Accused has raised his first defence that he did not receive
 the legal demand notice and hence the fifth and sixth
 ingredients of the offence are not fulfilled. It is submitted
 on behalf of the accused that the legal demand notice was
 deliberately not served by the complainant. 19.With respect to this defence, it is noteworthy that the
 address of the accused as mentioned on the legal demand
 notice being Ex. CW-1/10(Colly) and original postal receipt
 being Ex. CW-1/11(colly) has been admitted by him and
 the genuineness and correctness of these documents is not
 disputed by him. Therefore, it emerges that the legal CC No.12917/19 Page 7 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 20.Further, it is an admitted fact that payment was not made
 by the accused within 15 days of the deemed receipt of the
 legal demand notice. It was held by the Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India in the decision cited as C.C. Alavi Haji vs.
 Palapetty Muhammed & Anr. (2007) 6 SCC 555 that a
 person who does not pay within 15 days of receipt of the
 summons from the Court along with the copy of the
 complaint under Section 138 of the Act, cannot obviously
 contend that there was no proper service of notice as
 required under Section 138 NI Act, by ignoring statutory
 presumption to the contrary under Section 27 of the
 General Clauses Act and Section 114 of the Indian
 Evidence Act. Thus, the plea of the accused that the legal
 demand notice was never received by him is not tenable on
 this ground as well and is accordingly rejected. 21.Hence, in the case at hand, since the complainant has
 discharged his initial burden on the basis of the documents
 mentioned hereinbefore and the admissions of the accused,
 all the ingredients of the offence under Section 138 of the
 NI Act stand successfully established. Further, since the
 accused has admitted his signatures on the impugned
 cheque and the fact of issuance of the cheque from his
 account, thus, the presumptions under Sections 118(a) and CC No.12917/19 Page 8 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: DEFENCES OF NO LEGALLY ENFORCEABLE
 DEBT/LIABILITY 22.In order to rebut the mandatory presumptions, the accused
 has raised the plea that the cheque in question was issued as
 a security cheque at the inception of business relationship
 between the parties with a promise that the cheque shall be
 returned to the accused by the complainant at the end of the
 business relationship. It is further the case of the accused
 that instead of returning the cheque in question, the
 complainant has misused the cheque by fabricating a false
 story against him and further that he owes no legally
 enforceable debt or liability towards the complainant to the
 tune of cheque amount. 23.Per contra, Ld. Counsel for the complainant company
 argued that merely labelling the cheque in question as
 security cheque cannot absolve the accused from his
 liability under Section 138 NI Act. It is submitted on behalf
 of the complainant that the accused has admitted the
 business relationship between the parties. Further it is the
 case of the complainant that the accused used to book fake
 orders in the name of different customers with the
 complainant in order to cheat the complainant under deep
 conspiracy with other co-employees. It is further the case of
 the complainant that the accused with other co-employees CC No.12917/19 Page 9 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 Date: 24.Further it is the case of the complainant that the accused is
 merely labelling the cheque in question as a security
 cheque as there were several cheques that were issued by
 the accused to the complainant and there are 17 connected
 cases between the same parties pending consideration
 before this court itself and that the accused has failed to
 explain as to how several cheques almost 17 in number
 were issued as security by the accused to the complainant.
 It is further submitted on behalf of the complainant that the
 accused has not taken any action whatsoever against the
 complainant against alleged misuse of cheque in questions.
 Rather the complainant has placed on record the admission CC No.12917/19 Page 10 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 25.Ld. Counsel for the complainant further argued that the
 presumption under Section 139 NI Act cannot be rebutted
 on a mere evasive denial but by leading cogent evidence
 which the accused failed to bring on record. He lastly
 submitted that the accused is trying to raise a frivolous and
 moonshine defence in order to evade his liability and the
 accused has clearly failed to rebut the mandatory
 presumptions that exist in favour of the complainant
 company and hence he should be convicted. 26.Upon a careful perusal of the record and on patiently
 hearing the parties at length, apropos the defence of the
 accused that the cheque in question was issued as a security
 cheque, it is pertinent to note that in the case in hand prima
 facie, the accused has failed to establish that the cheque in
 question was issued as a security cheque. Secondly, even if
 the fact that the cheque in question was issued for security
 purposes is successfully established by the accused and
 accepted by this court, the same alone does not probablise
 his defence. Reliance in this regard is placed by this court
 on the judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Sampelly Satyanarayana Rao Vs. Indian Renewable Energy
 Development Agency Ltd. , (2016) 10 SCC 458, Sunil Todi
 Vs. State of Gujarat & Anr., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1174,
 and Sripati Singh Vs. State of Jharkhand & Anr., 2021 SCC
 OnLine SC 1002 wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has held CC No.12917/19 Page 11 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 Date: 27.Hence the moot question before this court is whether there
 was a legally enforceable debt or liability equivalent to the
 amount of the cheque in question in favour of the
 complainant company and against the accused as on the
 date of its drawl or presentation. 28.Further the accused has not proved anything to show that
 the cheque in question was given as a security cheque and
 has been misused by the complainant. The accused has
 neither entered the witness box nor led any defence
 evidence to establish his defence. In written arguments filed
 on behalf of the accused, the counsel for accused has raised
 a new version by stating that the complainant at the time of
 appointment of the accused in the complainant company
 opened a salary account of the accused. Subsequently, it is
 argued by the counsel for accused that the complainant also
 opened five bank accounts- four in the name of the accused
 and one in the name of wife of the accused. Further it is
 argued that complainant also got issued cheque books on
 these accounts and got them signed by the accused.
 However it is again pertinent to mention that the accused
 has again failed to lead any evidence to prove the
 aforementioned version and only bald assertions have been CC No.12917/19 Page 12 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 29.As regards the rebuttal of mandatory presumptions, it is a
 settled law that the presumption under Section 139 of the
 NI Act cannot be rebutted upon a mere denial but only by
 leading cogent evidence. Same was held by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in the decision cited as K.N. Beena
 Vs. Muniyappan and Another ; (2001) 8 SCC 458. Further,
 the presumptions may be rebutted by the accused either by
 leading direct evidence and in exceptional cases, from the
 case set out by the complainant himself i.e. from the
 averments in his complaint, in the statutory notice and even
 the evidence adduced by the complainant during the trial.
 The burden of proof is to be discharged by the accused on a
 scale of 'preponderance of probabilities'. Same was held by
 the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the decision cited as M/s
 Kumar Exports Vs. M/s Sharma Carpets; 2009 AIR (SC)
 1518. It is also a settled law that the statements made by the
 accused in reply to notice under Section 251 Cr.P.C. or in
 his examination under Section 281 read with Section 313 Cr.P.C. are not on oath and hence are not substantive pieces
 of evidence. At best, they may be an explanation of the
 incriminating circumstances against the accused but are
 devoid of any presumption as to their truthfulness. Support
 is drawn from the decision of the Hon'ble High Court of
 Delhi cited as V.S. Yadav Vs. Reena ; 172 (2010) DLT 561. 30.The accused has failed to support his plea of defence with CC No.12917/19 Page 13 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 31.The entire defence of the accused is nothing but a set of
 bald, vague and self-contradictory assertions put together
 which are unsubstantiated by any cogent or reliable
 evidence. His oral assertions stand rebutted by
 documentary evidence brought forth on behalf of the
 complainant. Thus, there is nothing available on record for
 the court to believe that the defence plea disclosed by the
 accused in his reply to the notice under Section 251 Cr.P.C
 or in his statement under Section 313 read with Section 281 Cr.P.C is plausible. 32.Consequently, this court has come to an irresistible
 conclusion that the accused has failed to rebut the
 mandatory presumptions as per law and tilt the scales in his CC No.12917/19 Page 14 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 Date: 33.In view of the aforesaid discussion, this court finds the
 accused Parveen S/o Sh. Rishi Prakash guilty of the offence
 under Section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and
 convicts him accordingly. This judgment contains 15 pages and each page has been signed
 by the Presiding Officer.