This suit is filed by the plaintiff against the

defendant for the relief of permanent injunction. 2. The brief facts of the plaintiffs' case are as

under: The act of the defendant is illegal, against to the right and

interest of the plaintiff. If such allegations are made 7 O.S.No.6198/2018 certainly it would affect the image of the plaintiff and the

needy patients would suffer by such illegal attempt. It is

just and necessary to restrain the defendant from

resorting to such dubious methods of illegal attempts of

making bad propaganda by writing letters, issuing press

notes, disturbing pamphlets etc. by granting an order of

perpetual injunction. Hence the suit accordingly prayed

for decreeing the suit in favour of the plaintiff against the

defendant restraining the defendant from publishing,

issuing any note or making any publication making wild

allegations against the plaintiff without adopting proper

recourse of law tarnishing the image of the plaintiff and

restraining the defendant from making any attempts

either by conducting any interview, making wild

allegations against the plaintiff to tarnish his image and

reputation in running the Aatma Sangeevini Center and

also restrain the defendant from adopting any such illegal

and high handed methods of publishing any kind of

publication with respect to the treatment or services 8 O.S.No.6198/2018 rendered by the plaintiff under the name and style of

" Aatma Sangeevini Soul Healing Center" 3. After service of summons, defendant remained

absent, hence he has been placed exparte, the case has

been posted for plaintiff's evidence. 4. To prove the case of the plaintiff, he himself got

examined as P.W.1 got marked Ex.P-1 to P-19 documents. 5. Heard the arguments of counsel for plaintiff,

perused the plaint, evidence and documents placed on

record. 6. The following points arise for my consideration. 1. Whether the plaintiff proves that defendant is
 causing damages to his reputation illegally,
 therefore plaintiff is entitle for the relief sought
 in the suit? 2. What order or decree ? 7. My answers to the above points are as under; 8. Point No.1 : That plaintiff is a Diploma Holder in

Electronics and Telecommunication and also acquired

profound knowledge in Computer Science having for

exploring the world Internet for improving his knowledge

and the founder of Micro Cell Computer Technologies

since 1996. The father and grandfather of plaintiff

Sri.Seetharama Shastry and Mr.Subba Rao Shastry were

serving the humanity through Astrology, spiritual and Soul

Healing Alternative Medicine and Drugless Therapy. So

from the days of his father and grandfather the plaintiff

from his childhood had acquired the required skills in

Astrology, Spiritual and Soul Healing Therapy. The father

and grandfather of the plaintiff were treating people who

were victims of black magic and spirit related problems,

past life related problems, family tree related problems

and were serving the humanity in their own way.

Though the plaintiff studied the subject of electronics and 10 O.S.No.6198/2018 Telecommunication, he has developed passion for further

studying regarding the spiritual and soul healing. In this

regard plaintiff underwent training regarding spiritual

solution with the renowned and famous personality who is

conducting "past life regression Therapist Training

Course" by name Sri. Sri Ramachandra Guruji who is

internationally renowned Hypnotherapist and Spiritual

Master. He has also obtained certificate by undergone

training under the guidance of Sri.Sri.Ramachandra Guruji

in the year 2010. The plaintiff done various course and

acquired various certificates from competent authorities

and he has registered the AAatma Sanjeevini Healing

Center" and government has issued registration

certificate for running and practicing in the name of

"Aaatma Sangeevni Soul healing Center'. Such being the

facts of the case the defendant with malafide intention of

tarnishing the image of the plaintiff in the public without

any rhyme and reason has sent a letter through courier

dated 18.7.2018 making nasty allegation narrating

concocted and fabricated events contending that the 11 O.S.No.6198/2018 plaintiff has been cheating the public and extracting

money committing fraud calling the plaintiff as a fraud by

Guruji cheating the public and illegally making money. He

has also threatening that he will distribute xerox copy of

the said letters to the Chief Minister, Chief Secretary to

Government, Director General of Police , D.I.G. I.G.P. and

social media also he threatened to give complaint to one

Hulikal Nataraj and further threatened that he would

expose the plaintiff about his healing methods in all the

reputed media, electronic media, channel and he has

threatened plaintiff to close the Center. Otherwise the

police would arrest the plaintiff for the fraud committed

by him and has further challenged upon the plaintiff to

refund the amounts collected by him as he has cheated

committed dociety and earned money by practicing fraud.

The plaintiff immediately noted the telephone number

found in the letter and called the person to enquire as to

who has sent the letter the number found switched off.

Plaintiff again received another letter through courier on

18.08.2018 sent by the defendant on false, baseless and 12 O.S.No.6198/2018 reckless allegations against the plaintiff. He has also sent

printed copies of the press statement annexed photo of

the plaintiff. He has made false allegations in the press

note against the plaintiff. He has also further alleged that

plaintiff is giving advertisement in all electronic media

and T.V. Channal threatened to file complaint against the

plaintiff to Chief Minister and Chief Secretary and

Government. The plaintiff being a qualified person having

acquired the required knowledge and skills from their

father and grandfather and with renowned internationally

reputed Guruji's who deals with the problems related to

Spirit and Soul has been doing service to the mankind for

more than 8 years. No patient who has taken services of

the plaintiff are their family members have complained

against the plaintiff with respect to treatment given by

him or about charges made by him. For the first time the

plaintiff is astonished to see the letters written by the

defendant which are nothing but indirect method of black

mailing the plaintiff for illegal extraction of money. If the

defendant is allowed to publish such statement through 13 O.S.No.6198/2018 electronic and social media tarnish the image of the

plaintiff and the plaintiff would be put to irreparable loss

and injury which may result in closure of the center run

by the plaintiff. That on 18.08.2018 the defendant

received call of the plaintiff and reiterated the nasty

allegations against the plaintiff and contending that he

would not only tarnish the image of the plaintiff and

threatened the plaintiff that he would bring him to the

cross roads by closing his "Aatmma Sangeevini Center".

The act of the defendant is illegal, against to the right and

interest of the plaintiff. If such allegations are made

certainly it would affect the image of the plaintiff and the

needy patients would suffer by such illegal attempt. It is

just and necessary to restrain the defendant from

resorting to such dubious methods of illegal attempts of

making bad propaganda by writing letters, issuing press

notes, disturbing pamphlets etc. by granting an order of

perpetual injunction. That to prove the case of the

plaintiff, he got himself examined as PW.1. In his affidavit

filed in the form of examination in chief he has reiterated 14 O.S.No.6198/2018 the plaint averments and in support of his contention he

got marked Ex.P-1 to P-19 documents. Ex.P-1 is the

original letter of defendant addressed to the plaintiff,

Ex.P-2 is the DTDC delivery receipt, Ex.P-3 is the

Treatment procedure booklet, Ex.P-4 is the Certificate of

Registration, Ex.P-5 is the GST Certificate, Ex.P-6 is the

Income tax return acknowledgment, Ex.P-7 is the

downloaded documents of Dr.Poorvi Jayaraj, Ex.P-8 is the

Website copy of spiritual solutions center, Ex.P-9 and 10

are downloaded photographs, Ex.P-11 is the website copy

of Balakrishnan Guruji, Ex.P-12 and 13 are downloaded

photographs, Ex.P-14 is the download copy of welcome to

holy-stick healing Samrudhi.in Ex.P-15 is the download

copy of Atma Sanjeevini, Ex.P-16 is the downloaded copy

of Monday to Sunday Kasturi 24 Ex.P-17 is the Blank

format of Atma Sanjeevini, Ex.P-18 is the Laminated

Certificate Spiritual Solutions Pvt Limited., Bengaluru,

Ex.P-19 is the Photo Certificate issued by Academy for

Spiritual Scientist. Inspite of service of summons, the

defendant remained absent not chosen to appear before 15 O.S.No.6198/2018 the Court to deny the case of the plaintiff and to put up

his defense. The very conduct of the defendant shows

that he has no case to make out against the plaintiff. The

evidence of PW.1 and contents of Ex.P.1 to 19 documents

remained unquestioned. That taking into consideration of

all these facts and circumstances it is quite clear that

plaintiff has discharged his initial burden of proving

alleged illegal act of the defendant which is detrimental to

the right and interest of the plaintiff thereby proved his

contention with cogent and convincing evidence. No

reason is available to deny the same, the plaintiff has

made out his contention that he is entitle for relief of

injunction as prayed for by him. If the injunction order is

not granted as sought by him then he will put to

irreparable loss argument seems to be reasonable.

Therefore to meet the ends of justice it is just reasonable

to grant relief of injunction as prayed by plaintiff. That

taking into consideration of all these facts and

circumstances in my view plaintiff has proved point No.1,

accordingly, I have answered it in the affirmative. 16 O.S.No.6198/2018 9. Point No.3 :- In the result, I proceed to pass the
following; ORDER

 The suit of the plaintiff is hereby

 decreed with costs. interview in this regard and damaging the

 reputation of plaintiff in print, electronic

 and social media without adopting proper

 recourse of law, tarnishing the image of

 the plaintiff adopting any such illegal and

 high handed methods of publishing any

 kind of publication in any manner or

 making any publication with respect to 17 O.S.No.6198/2018 the treatment or services rendered by the

 plaintiff under the name and style of

 "Aatmma Sangeevini Center" Soul

 Healing Center, by way of permanent

 injunction. Draw the decree accordingly. [Dictated to the Judgment Writer directly on
computer, corrected by me and then pronounced by me
on this 1st day of June, 2021)

 (MALLIKARJUNA)
 XIV Addl. City Civil Judge
 Bangalore. ANNEXURE

List of witnesses examined on behalf of the plaintiff: P.W.1 : Sri.Manjunatha Shastry

List of documents marked on behalf of the plaintiff: