Reserved on : March 14, 2024
 Pronounced on : April 25, 2024. Judgment : FACTUAL MATRIX: Dhondiba expired on 26th June 1986. Properties at Sortapwadi

bearing Gat Nos.304, 306, 309, 506, 711 and 308, Gat Nos.299 and 300

part and Gat No.243 of village Walati and Gat No.482 of Village Walati

came to be inherited by the Plaintiff No.1 and Defendant Nos 1, 7 to

Patil-SR (ch) 4 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc 9. Gat No.483 of Village Walati and part of Gat Nos.716, 292 and 312

and 297 of village Sortapwadi was purchased out of joint family

income and Gat No 297 at Village Sortapwadi was the ancestral joint

family property in which the Plaintiffs have a share. 5. There was no partition by metes and bounds and the properties

are in joint possession of the parties. Plaintiff No.1 demanded

partition which was agreed by Defendant No.1. As the Plaintiff No 1

was illiterate whereas the Defendant No.1 was educated, the Plaintiff

No.1 called the respectable persons from the village and decided the

manner of partition. On 23 rd December 1999, the Deed of partition

was registered before the Sub Registrar, Haveli, Pune at Serial

No.1526 of 1999. However, the said deed is not in consonance with

the oral terms of partition agreed upon by the parties and was not

read over to Plaintiff No.1. As per the terms of partition, the share of

the Plaintiff No.1 was to be measured and handed over to the

Plaintiff No.1 which is not done and neither the boundaries are fixed.

The share allotted in the partition deed and the boundaries of the

properties are stated incorrectly. The entire property is not included

in the partition deed. After the deed was registered, legal advice was

sought and the Plaintiff No.1 learnt about the mistake. The Plaintiff

No.1 requested the Defendant No.1 to rectify the partition deed and

Patil-SR (ch) 5 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

to measure the properties and to handover possession to the

Plaintiff No.1 after fixing the boundaries. Despite the demand, the

Defendant No.1 avoided the same and the Defendant No.1 on the

pretext of correcting the partition deed got the thumb impression of

the Plaintiff No.1 on a stamp paper on 19 th February 2001 without

reading over the contents of stamp paper to the Plaintiff No.1. The

contents of the stamp paper are not agreeable to the Plaintiff No.1.

Plaintiff No.1 had lodged complaint with the Uruli-Kanchan Police

Station against the Defendant No 1. 6. It was contended that Defendant Nos.7 to 9 are the sisters of

the Plaintiff No.1 and the Defendant No.1 and they have right in the

joint family properties and are therefore impleaded as Defendants

however no relief is sought against them. It was contended that there

are certain movable properties such as Tractor bearing No.MTJ 6228,

Trailer No. MTQ 6114, Mahindra Jeep bearing No. MVB 5010, One oil

engine of 5 HP, One Bullet bearing No. MZA 9988, however, separate

suit will be filed for partition of these properties after their market

value is ascertained. WRITTEN STATEMENT OF DEFENDANT NOS.1 TO 6: 7. The specific case put up in paragraph 15 of the written

statement was that during life time of their father, Gat Nos.304, 306,

Patil-SR (ch) 6 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

308, 309, 506 and 711 and Gat Nos.299 part and 300 part of Village

Sortapwadi and Gat No.482 from Village Walati and Gat No. 243 from

Village Tarde were partitioned. As written partition was demanded by

Plaintiff No.1, duly registered deed of partition was executed on 23 rd

December 1999. The Plaintiff No.1 and Plaintiff No.3 affixed their

thumb impressions and the Plaintiff No.2 affixed his signature on the

partition deed. There was no fraud as the document was executed in

the presence of witnesses and the Sub Registrar. Gat No.483 of

Village Walati and New Gat No.394 of Village Sortapwadi were the

self acquired properties of Defendant No.1, which were subject

matter of dispute and not forming subject matter of partition. A

document was executed by Plaintiff No.1 on 19 th February 2001 that

the Plaintiff No.1 has no concern with the said properties or the Court

proceedings. WRITTEN STATEMENT OF DEFENDANT NOS.7 TO 9: 8. The Defendant nos.7 to 9 supported the case of the Plaintiff. It

was contended that suit properties as well as the movables are

ancestral joint family properties and the Defendant Nos 7 to 9 are

entitled to a share in the suit properties. It was contended that there

was no partition during the lifetime of their father and the alleged

partition deed dated 23rd December, 1999 is not acceptable and is not

Patil-SR (ch) 7 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

binding on the answering Defendants. It was contended that the

Defendant Nos 7 to 9 have 1/5th share in the suit properties which

should be partitioned and possession handed over.

EVIDENCE: 9. The Plaintiffs examined Plaintiff No.1. The Defendant Nos.1 to

6 did not step in the witness box. On behalf of Defendant Nos.7 to 9,

Defendant No.8 adduced evidence. 10. In the cross examination, the Plaintiff No.1 was questioned in

respect of the gift executed by the Plaintiffs in respect of 1 Are land

of New Gat No 304 of Village Sortapwadi on 29 th August, 1997, sale of

1 Are land out of Gat No.306 on 25 th May, 1989, sale of 2 Are land out

of New Gat No.104 on 14 th August, 1997, sale of 1 Are land out of Gat

No.304 on 30th August, 1999 to which he stated that he is not aware.

The Plaintiff No.1 deposed that he became aware of the contents of

partition deed dated 23rd December, 1999 after he read the

document upon reaching home. He has admitted that he does not

remember whether prior to 23rd December, 1999 the terms of

partition were decided between him and the Defendant No 1 in the

presence of respectable persons from the village. He has further

admitted that the sale deeds of Old Gat No 716 of Village Sortapwadi

and Gat No 483 of Village Walati stands in the name of Defendant No

Patil-SR (ch) 8 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

1and were executed prior to 12-13 years. He has admitted that he has

not described which boundaries have been stated incorrectly in the

partition deed. He has admitted that he has no document to prove

that the Gat No 483, Gat No 716, Gat No 312 part and Gat No 298

were purchased from joint family income. He has admitted that his

son Navnath is literate person and Navnath has signed the partition

deed and he and his wife has affixed their thumb impression before

the Sub Registrar. Plaintiff No 1 has admitted that the Defendant Nos

7 to 9 are not parties to the partition deed of 23rd December, 1999. 11. In her cross examination, the Defendant No 8 has deposed that

she is not aware that as per Mutation Entry No 632, the Defendant

Nos 7 to 9 have released their share in the joint family property. She

has admitted that she has not challenged the Mutation Entry.

FINDINGS OF THE TRIAL COURT : 12. The findings of the Trial Court can be summarised as under : 13. By judgment dated 21st March 2009, the Trial Court declared

that the partition deed dated 23rd December 1999 having been

obtained by misrepresentation and without free and informed

consent of the Plaintiff No.1 stands cancelled. It was further declared

Patil-SR (ch) 10 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

that the Plaintiffs and Defendant Nos.1 and 7, 8 and 9 are entitled to

1/5th share. FINDINGS OF THE APPELLATE COURT: 14. The Defendant Nos 1 to 6 filed Civil Appeal No 258 of 2009. The

Appellate Court framed and answered the points for determination

as under: properties are their ancestral joint family
 properties ? 2] Whether the plaintiffs further proved that the Yes. alleged partition deed dtd. 23-12-99 is obtained
 by Defendant no.1 by playing fraud ? 3] Whether the Defendant no.1 proved that Gat No.
 No. 483 of Walati and Gat No. 716 and 394 from
 Sortapwadi were his separate properties ? 4] Whether the Defendant No. 1 further proved No.
 that there was partition of the joint family
 property in the life time of his father ? 5] Are the Plaintiffs entitled to partition and Yes. separate possession ? 6] What Order ? As per final order. 15. The Appellate Court held that Defendant Nos.1 to 6 have not

led any evidence in respect of the partition during the lifetime of the

Patil-SR (ch) 11 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

father and had not proved their case. The Appellate Court held that

there was no valid partition for the following reasons: 16. The Appellate Court noted that for proving fraud, it was

necessary for the Plaintiffs to prove what was the oral partition

agreed upon in the presence of respectable persons from the village,

which evidence has not been adduced by the Plaintiff. The Appellate

Court held that the Defendant Nos.1 to 6 who relied upon the said

partition did not bring any evidence. The Appellate Court held that

Patil-SR (ch) 12 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

the partition was invalid partition as all the parties were not parties

to the partition, i.e., the sisters, and secondly all the properties of the

joint family were not available for partition. 17. As regards the movable properties which were not included in

the partition, the Appellate Court held that the Plaintiff no.1 has

waived his right in respect of the same and the suit is not liable to be

defeated on this ground. As regards the relinquishment of their rights

by the sisters, the Appellate Court held that it is not the case of the

Defendant no.1 that the sisters were present either at the time of

partition during the lifetime of the father or at the time of execution

of partition deed dated 23rd December 1999 and on the contrary, the

sisters have contested the suit and claimed shares in the properties.

The Appellate Court considered that the daughters by virtue of the

amendment to section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 were

coparceners along with the sons and the partition of 23 rd December

1999 was not a partition as per law, there was no disposition or

alienation of the property prior to 20th December 2004 and therefore

the daughters have equal share in the suit properties as that of the

Plaintiff No.1 and the Defendant No.1. The Appellate Court thus

dismissed the appeal. 18. The Second Appeal was admitted on 4 th August, 2015 on the

following substantial question of law: ADDITIONAL SUBSTANTIAL QUESTIONS OF LAW: 19. The admitted position is that the Partition Deed dated 23 rd

December, 1999 though produced by the Defendant No.1, was not

tendered in evidence either by the Plaintiffs or by the Defendants

and was not exhibited. Relief sought by the Plaintiffs was the

cancellation of the partition deed dated 23 rd December, 1999 as the

same was obtained by misrepresentation and fraud. The Trial Court

has rendered declaration of cancellation of the registered partition

deed and Appellate Court has held that the registered deed of

partition was obtained by fraud. Without the partition deed being

tendered in evidence, the Courts have tested and returned a finding

on the validity of the partition deed. 20. In the plaint, specific pleading of the Plaintiffs is that apart

from immovable properties of which the partition is sought, there are

certain movables which form part of the joint family properties, i.e.,

Patil-SR (ch) 14 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

tractor, trailer, Jeep, bullet etc. for which the Plaintiffs will be filing a

separate suit. The Defendant Nos.1 to 6 in their written statement

have not specifically denied the pleading in respect of movables. As

the movable properties which are forming part of the joint family

properties were not included in the present suit, the instant suit

would constitute suit for partial partition. 21. The Defendant Nos.7 to 9 were not parties to the registered

partition deed of the year 1999 and were married prior to the

execution of the partition deed. The mutation entry on record shows

oral relinquishment by the Defendant Nos 7 to 9. The Defendant Nos.

7 to 9 claim share in the suit properties by virtue of amended Section

6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. 22. The discussion above, in my view, raises the following

additional substantial questions of law: 23. The learned counsel for the parties were heard extensively on

the additional substantial questions of law framed by this Court and

they have also tendered their written submissions which are taken on

record. SUBMISSIONS : 24. Mr. Ram Apte, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the

Defendant Nos 1 to 4 points out the pleading in the plaint to urge

that as movable joint family property was not included, suit for partial

partition was not maintainable. He submits that without any case of

waiver being pleaded, the Appellate Court has held that the Plaintiff

No.1 has waived his right with respect to the movable properties. He

would further submit that in respect of self acquired properties, the

initial burden was upon the Plaintiff to show sufficient joint family

nucleus, and without the burden being discharged onus would not

shift on Defendant no.1. In that context, he points out the admission

of the Plaintiff No.1 in the cross examination. exhibited and not marked in evidence, the document could not be

cancelled. Pointing out to Exhibit 50 from the paper-book, he

submits that the application was filed by the Plaintiffs for direction to

the Defendants to produce the partition deed to which the

Defendant No.1 had not objected and accordingly the partition deed

was produced on record. He submits that despite thereof, the said

document was not admitted by the Plaintiffs. He would submit that

in absence of the document the relief under Section 31 of the Specific

Relief Act cannot be granted. 26. Without prejudice, he submits that the execution of partition

deed of the year 1999 was admitted by the Plaintiffs and what was

pleaded was a case of fraud, which was not established. He would

point out the admission of Plaintiff No 1 that his son Navnath is

literate and has signed the partition deed. He submits that the

partition deed is registered document and in view of Section 91 of

the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 no oral evidence contrary to the terms

of the contract can be permitted to be given. He submits that the

case of Plaintiffs is that he has not received possession of properties

as per agreement and thus remedy was to seek specific performance. 27. Pointing out to Mutation Entry No.252, he submits that the

Patil-SR (ch) 17 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

Mutation Entry is evidence of the separation of Defendant No 1 and

allotment of Gat No 297 to share of Defendant No 1. Drawing

attention of this Court to document at Exhibit 107 he submits that

the application filed by heirs of Dhondiba is evidence of the

properties being partitioned during life time of Dhondiba as the said

application specifically mentions that Gat Nos.298, 308, 309, 306, 711,

300 and part of Gat No.506 have been allotted to the share of the

Plaintiff No.1 and he is in possession of the same whereas Gat No.

304 and part of Gat No. 506 is allotted to the share of the Defendant

No.1. He submits that the Plaintiff No 1 has admitted that he has

independently sold some of the properties which supports the case

of earlier partition and those properties are not included in the suit. 28. Mr. Apte would further submit that the sisters though have

filed written statement have not challenged partition deed by way of

counter claim and neither challenged the mutation entries. He

submits that documentary evidence shows oral relinquishment which

is permissible in law. He would further submit that revenue entry

recording names of sisters as heirs of Dhondiba will not make them

coparceners. He would submit that as partition had already taken

place, daughters have no share and at the most can have share in the

share of father. 29. He would further submit that partial partition is permissible in

law, which position has not been appreciated by the Appellate Court

while rendering a finding of illegality of partition deed. 30. In support of his submissions, Mr. Apte relies upon following

decisions : 31. Per Contra Mr. Gorwadkar, learned Senior Advocate appearing

for the Plaintiffs submits that in view of the fact that the registered

partition deed dated 23rd December, 1999 was not proved or

exhibited, the substantial question of law as to its validity has been

rendered redundant. He submits that the main relief was for

Patil-SR (ch) 19 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

partition and separate possession and if the deed of partition is not

produced on record, the decree for partition must be sustained. 32. As regards the issue of partial partition, he would submit that

under Order II Rule 2 of CPC , the Plaintiffs are entitled to abandon

part of the claim. He would submit that non inclusion of the movable

properties is not fatal to the suit and the waiver is statutorily

presumed under Order II Rule 2 of CPC . He submits that the admitted

position is that the Defendant No.1 did not enter into the witness box

and as such the presumption would arise that the case set up by him

is not correct as is settled by the Apex Court in the case of Man Kaur

v. Hartar Singh Sangha [(2010) 10 SCC 512]. 33. He submits that only prayer clauses (b), (c) and (d) and the claim

of the sisters for partition and separate possession is required to be

decided by discarding or ignoring the partition deed dated 23 rd

December 1999. He would further submit that the theory of previous

partition as propounded by the Defendant Nos.1 to 6 has not been

proved as they have not stepped into the witness box. He would

further submit the Plaintiffs have pleaded that properties acquired in

the name of Defendant no.1 are purchased from the joint family

income and no particulars are given by Defendant no.1 as to his

source of income for purchase of properties. 34. He would further submit that by the decision of the Apex Court

in the case of Vineeta Sharma v. Rakesh Sharma [(2020) 9 SCC 1] the

amendment to Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has been

given a retro-active effect and therefore by reason of birth, every

daughter has been given a status of coparcener and right to claim a

share in the joint family property and as such the sisters are entitled

to have equal share in the properties and the shares are therefore

rightly calculated. 35. He would further submit that as regards the contention that

some of the properties have been independently dealt with is not a

conclusive indicator of the earlier partition of the joint family

properties and it only shows that other sharers have acquiesced in the

transactions made by the Plaintiffs and the properties which have

been individually sold can be put to his share in order to make

partition equitable. In support of his submissions, Mr. Gorwardkar,

relies upon following decisions : He would further submit that the Apex Court in the case of A. Krishna

Shenoy v. Ganga Devi G [2023 Live Law 778] has held that in the

partition suit the parties are interchangeable and there is no bar in

passing of numerous preliminary decrees and submits that as such

the Defendant Nos.7 to 9 have a right to seek partition. He would

further submit that the provisions of Order VIII Rule 3 and Rule 5 of

CPC provide for specific admission and denial of the pleadings in the

plaint which requirement has not been met by the Defendant Nos.1

to 6 while dealing with averments of fraud pleaded in plaint. 37. He would further submit that oral relinquishment by the

Defendant Nos.7 to 9 as claimed by the Defendant No.1 does not

satisfy the requirement of the family arrangement. He submits that

the specific procedure prescribed under Section 85 of Maharashtra

Land Revenue Code, 1960 providing for oral partition has not been

followed in the present case. He would further submit that this Court

in the case of Babu v. Muktabai [2021 SCC OnLine Bom 4588] has

held that where the alleged partition is unequal, it cannot be

accepted as partition effected and be protected under law. He

submits that merely because the sisters have not challenged the

Mutation Entry cannot be taken as acceptance of partition. He

points out to various observations of the Apex Court in the case of Vineeta Sharma (supra) and would submit that the daughters acquire

an equal status as that of the son by reason of their birth. He would

further point out from the written statement of Defendant Nos.1 to 6

that there are no pleadings in respect of the said application Exhibit

107 and the said document cannot be read in evidence as regards the

relinquishment of the shares of the sisters. He would urge the Court

to consider the difference in signatures on Exhibit 107 and in present

proceedings. He would submit that mere marking of the exhibit

would not dispense with the proof and that there is no oral

relinquishment. He submits that as per decision of the Apex Court in

Patil-SR (ch) 23 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc Vineeta Sharma (supra) plea of oral partition can only be entertained

if supported by public document. He submits that as partition deed

dated 23rd December 1999 has not been proved, the partition is not

saved. 38. As regards the submission on Section 29A of the Hindu

Succession Act, 1956, which is a State Amendment, Mr. Killedar

submits that it is impliedly repealed by Section 6 of the Amendment

Act of 2005. He submits that as per Article 254(1) of the Constitution

in event the provision of law made by the State legislature is

repugnant to the law made by Parliament, then subject to the

provisions of clause (2), the law made by the Parliament shall prevail

and the State law to that extent shall be void. He submits that the

Explanation to this is contained in Article 254(2) which provides that

the State law shall prevail in that State over the Central law in event

the State law is reserved for consideration of the President and

received its assent. He submits that the Maharashtra Amendment to

the Hindu Succession Act is neither pending for consideration before

the President nor has received its assent and Section 29A(iv) is

inconsistent with the amended Section 6 and is void. 39. Mr. Killedar would further submit that the Apex Court in the

case of State Bank of Travancore v. Aravindan Kunju Panicker

Patil-SR (ch) 24 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

[(1972) 4 SCC 274] has held that the Hindu family is presumed to be

joint unless the contrary is established and the entire evidence of

jointness of properties has been left unrebutted. He submits that

apart from the fact that the Defendant Nos 1 to 6 did not step into

the witness box, there is no suggestion given to the PW-1 that some

of the properties were self acquired properties of the Defendant

No.1. He submits that as the Defendant Nos.1 to 6 have failed to

prove partition deed, the theory of previous partition fails. In

support of his submissions, Mr. Killedar pressed into service following

case laws : EVIDENCE AS REGARDS REGISTERED PARTITION DEED DATED 23 rd
DECEMBER, 1999: During the cross examination, PW-1 was not confronted with the

registered partition deed. Admittedly, Defendant Nos 1 to 6 have not

stepped in the witness box. 46. The documents produced by the Plaintiffs during their evidence

have been marked as Exhibit 61 to 103 and the documents which

were produced by the Defendant No.1 below Exhibit-46 were marked

as Exhibit-73 to 87 as the documents were certified copies of 7/12

extracts. The partition deed dated 23rd December 1999 was not

tendered in evidence and not marked as Exhibit. 47. The procedure for production of documents and endorsement

on the documents admitted in evidence is laid down in Order XIII

Rules 4 and 7 of CPC which read thus: 4. Endorsements on documents admitted in evidence.-- (1)
 Subject to the provisions of the next following sub-rule, there
 shall be endorsed on every document which has been admitted
 in evidence in the suit the following particulars, namely:-- 48. The above provisions of CPC set out in detail the procedure for

marking the documents which are admitted in evidence. The

registered partition deed has not been endorsed by the Trial Court as

admitted in evidence. Only those documents which have been

admitted in evidence form part of record of the suit and can be read

in evidence. During the hearing upon a question being posed by this

Court, learned counsel appearing for the respective parties have

Patil-SR (ch) 30 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

admitted that the partition deed of 23 rd December 1999 was neither

produced in evidence nor marked as exhibit. 49. In case of Om Prakash Berlia v. Unit Trust of India (supra),

learned Single Judge of this Court has considered the provisions of

the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 in the context of proof of documents

and in paragraph nos.6, 11 and 12 has held as under: Intention being the real test, it follows that an agreement
 between the members of a joint family to hold and enjoy the
 property in defined shares as separate owners operates as a
 partition, although, there may have been no actual division of
 the property by metes and bounds. ...... In such a case, the interest of each member is divided, though
 the property remains physically undivided...... An agreement to separate is not required by law to be in writing, if
 it is in writing, and clearly indicates on the face of it an intention to
 separate and hold the property in defined shares as separate
 owners, no evidence is admissible of the subsequent acts of the
 parties to alter or control its legal effect......" 53. In order to constitute partition there must be a definite and

unequivocal indication of intention by member of joint family to

separate himself from the family and enjoy his share in severalty. The

partition can be effected either orally or through written document

and though there may have been no actual partition by metes and

bounds, an agreement between members of joint family to hold and

enjoy the property in defined shares as separate owners operates as a

partition. 54. Applying the above principles of Hindu Law to the facts of the

instant case, the execution of the registered partition deed is

manifestation of the intention of the parties to separate and

intention being the true test there was severance of joint family

status. To constitute partition there is no requirement of actual

partition by metes and bounds and it suffices if the defined shares are

held and enjoyed as separate owners. 55. The case of oral partition during the lifetime of Dhondiba which

was reduced to writing on 23rd December 1999 has not been proved

as the Defendant Nos 1 to 6 have not stepped in the witness box,

however, the pleadings indicate that the Plaintiffs and Defendant No

to 6 have executed a registered partition deed. There was thus

severance of joint family status. 56. Upon the severance of joint family status being established by

the execution of registered deed of partition, the partition can be re-

opened only in certain contingencies such as at the instance of

posthumous son, minor son, mistake, fraud etc. The principles of

Hindu Law relevant for our purpose i.e. fraud has been laid down by

Mulla in Principles of Hindu Law 24th Edition as under: 57. Section 17 of Indian Contract Act, 1872 defines fraud as under: Explanation.--Mere silence as to facts likely to affect
 the willingness of a person to enter into a contract is
 not fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are such
 that, regard being had to them, it is the duty of the
 person keeping silence to speak3, or unless his silence
 is, in itself, equivalent to speech." 58. The conspectus of fraud pleaded by the Plaintiffs is as under: 59. The principles of Hindu Law permit the re-opening of partition

if it is established that any coparcener has obtained an unfair

advantage in division of property by fraud. The essential ingredient

of fraud is intent to deceive to induce the person to enter into

contract. The provisions of Order VI, Rule 4 of CPC mandate

necessary particulars to be given in all cases where party pleading

relies upon misrepresentation or fraud. The Constitution Bench of

Apex Court in Bishundeo Narain v. Seogeni Rai (1951 AIR 280) held

that in cases of fraud, undue influence and coercion, the parties

Patil-SR (ch) 38 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

pleading it must set forth full particulars and the case can only be

decided on the particulars as laid. There can be no departure from

them in evidence. General allegations are insufficient even to

amount to an averment of fraud of which any Court ought to take

notice however strong the language in which they are couched may

be. 60. The Plaintiffs had thus to prove that the Defendant Nos 1 to 6

had obtained an unfair advantage in division of the properties and

the unfair division was obtained by fraud. Coming to the evidence

adduced by the Plaintiffs, the deposition of PW-1 is reiteration of the

plaint. The unfair division pleaded by the Plaintiffs is that the

properties allotted to share of Plaintiffs were not measured and

handed over and boundaries are not fixed, the share allotted in the

partition deed and boundaries of the properties are stated

incorrectly, and, the entire property is not included in the partition

deed. 61. The deposition of the Plaintiff No 1 would render the case of

the Plaintiffs as that of non compliance with the obligations of the

registered partition deed and nothing further. It was necessary for

the Plaintiffs to adduce evidence such as giving the details of the

Patil-SR (ch) 39 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

properties, the comparative areas of the properties allotted to the

shares of the parties, the manner in which the shares allotted to the

Plaintiffs is incorrect. The deposition is too general in nature and

bereft of any particulars for the Courts to arrive at a finding of unfair

division. PW-1 has himself admitted in his cross examination that he

has not given the details of which boundaries are incorrectly stated. 62. Coming to the aspect of fraud, there is no element of fraud

disclosed from the case pleaded by the Plaintiffs sufficient to re-open

the partition. PW-1 has deposed that the registered partition deed

was not in accordance with oral terms agreed in presence of the

respectable persons from the village. To substantiate the same, the

best evidence available was the evidence of the villagers in whose

presence the terms of partition were orally agreed upon. However,

no witness was examined by the Plaintiffs. PW-1 has further deposed

that the contents of the partition deed were not read over to the

Plaintiffs. In the cross examination PW-1 has admitted that the

registered partition was signed by his son Navnath who is literate and

his wife has affixed thumb impression. PW-1 has further admitted

that the document was executed in front of Sub Registrar and he did

not make any complaint to the Sub Registrar that his thumb

impression was obtained without the document being read to him. In

Patil-SR (ch) 40 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

the cross examination, PW-1 has admitted that some of the

properties which were allotted to the Plaintiffs in the partition deed

were subsequently sold by them. It can thus be inferred that after

severance of joint family status the parties have independently dealt

with their respective properties. I thus find considerable force in

submission of Mr. Apte that the remedy available to the Plaintiffs was

to seek specific performance of the partition deed and not to re-open

the partition. 63. The 1st Appellate Court has rightly appreciated the evidence on

record and held that evidence of fraud has not been adduced by the

Plaintiffs. The Appellate Court has however held that there is no valid

partition by considering the revenue records of the year 1986

recording the shares of the parties in the suit properties, no share

being given in Gat No 998 and 312, properties at Sortapwadi and

Walati not included in the partition and sisters not being parties to

the partition though having a share. There is no discussion or

reasoning given for the Appellate Court to arrive at the finding on the

invalidity of partition. For arriving at a conclusion that the sisters

were required to be joined in the partition deed, the Appellate Court

was firstly required to consider the law prevailing at the time of

execution of the partition deed before concluding that the sisters in

Patil-SR (ch) 41 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

the year 1999 were entitled to a share as coparceners. The Appellate

Court failed to consider that the partition deed was executed on 23 rd

December 1999 when the daughters were entitled to limited share in

coparcenary interest of her father and not share as coparcener in

their rights. The Appellate Court also failed to consider that in case

of partition by agreement of parties, partial partition is permissible in

law. The recording of shares in the suit properties in names of the

legal heirs on death of Dhondiba would amount to negating the case

of oral partition during the lifetime of father put by the Defendant

Nos 1 to 6. The noting in the mutation entries admittedly does not

create or extinguish any right in the properties and what was required

to be considered is the admitted existence of registered partition

deed. PROPERTIES CLAIMED TO BE SELF ACQUIRED PROPERTIES : 64. One of the reasons that the Appellate Court has held the

partition to be invalid is that the properties at Sortapwadi and Warati

were not included in partition. It is settled position that partial

partition by agreement of parties is permissible in law. Properties

being Gat No. 483 at village Walati, Gat No. 394 at village Sortapwadi

are claimed to be self acquired properties. The initial burden is upon

Plaintiffs to show sufficient joint family nucleus from which the

Patil-SR (ch) 42 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

properties claimed to be self acquired properties were purchased and

thereafter onus shifts upon the Defendant Nos. 1 to 6 to prove the

properties to be self acquired. In the present case, the Plaintiff no.1

has admitted in his cross examination that that he has no evidence to

show that the properties were acquired out of joint family income.

The initial burden not being discharged by Plaintiff no.1, the onus did

not shift upon the Defendant Nos. 1 to 6. There is no question of any

adverse inference being drawn for failure to step into the witness box

by Defendant Nos. 1 to 6. 65. In Anil Rishi v. Gurbaksh Singh (supra), the Apex Court has

held that the burden of proving the fact rests on the party who

asserts the affirmative of issue and pleading is not evidence far less

the proof. Thus, ordinarily, the burden of proof is on the party who

asserts the affirmative of the issue and it rests, after the evidence is

gone into, upon the party against whom at the time the question

arises the judgment would be given, if no further evidence were to be

adduced by either side. The decision applies to the facts of the

present case. Under Section 101 of Evidence Act, the burden was

upon the Plaintiffs to produce the document of which relief of

cancellation was sought and the Plaintiffs having failed to produce

the document, the suit must fail. 66. Even if the oral partition during the lifetime of father was not

established by the Defendant Nos 1 to 6, as they did not step into the

witness box, the Plaintiffs have themselves admitted that there was a

registered partition deed executed between the Plaintiffs and the

Defendant Nos 1 to 6. There is finality which is attached to the

partition effected by agreement of the parties. For the purpose of re-

opening the partition, it was necessary for fraud to be established,

which the First Appellate Court has held that the Plaintiffs have failed

to establish. Once the case of fraud as pleaded is not established, the

Appellate Court could not have declared the partition as illegal

without any reasoning in support of the conclusion. The findings of

the Appellate Court based on erroneous application of law suffers

from perversity. 67. In Rattan Singh v. Nirmal Gill (supra), the Apex Court has held

that there is a presumption that the registered deed is validly

executed and the onus would be on the person who leads the

evidence to rebut the presumption. 68. The submission of the Mr. Gorwadkar, learned Senior Advocate

for the Plaintiffs is that irrespective of the fate of the partition deed,

the deed is required to be ignored and the relief of partition to be

Patil-SR (ch) 44 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

considered. I am unable to subscribe to the said position as

canvassed by Mr. Gorwardkar. The partition deed dated 23 rd

December, 1999 is a registered document by which partition has been

effected. The partition in the instant case could be reopened only

upon fraud being pleaded and established and shares determined by

decree of Court. When there is already a deed of partition resulting

in severance of joint family status, without the said deed being set

aside, the re-opening of partition determining the shares of the

parties is unsustainable. The parties cannot shut its eyes to the

registered partition deed and still seek partition. The principles of

Hindu Law reproduced above make it clear that if the agreement to

separate is in writing and clearly indicates, on the face of it, an

intention to separate and to hold the property in defined shares,

unless the deed of partition is shown to be vitiated by fraud, the

partition cannot be reopened. The relief of partition is consequential

relief which could have been granted only upon the deed of partition

being set aside on ground of fraud. In the absence of the partition

deed being cancelled, the suit could not be decreed for partition and

separate possession. In the instant case, as discussed above firstly

the partition deed was not tendered in evidence and thus no finding

on its validity could have been rendered and secondly even if it is

taken as part of judicial record, the Plaintiffs have failed to prove case

Patil-SR (ch) 45 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

of fraud. MAINTAINABILITY OF SUIT FOR PARTIAL PARTITION: 69. The property available and divisible on partition is coparcenary

property which will include immovable as well movable properties.

Where the property is indivisible, as in the instant case the motor

vehicles, it may be sold and its value distributed. The general rule is

that where a suit for partition is brought by a coparcener against the

other coparceners, it should embrace the whole family property

subject to certain exceptions where the property is not available for

actual partition or where it is held jointly by the family with a

stranger, a separate suit for partition may be brought in respect of

that portion or part of the joint family property is outside the

jurisdiction of the Court etc. 70. The case of the Plaintiffs was that there are certain movables

of the joint family for which a separate suit for partition will be filed.

In the cross examination of PW-1, the question was put as to whether

any suit has been filed or any action taken in respect of partition of

the properties to which the witness replied in the negative. This has

been construed by the first appellate Court as a waiver of the right in

respect of other properties. It is well settled that the essential

Patil-SR (ch) 46 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

element of waiver is that there must be a voluntary and intentional

relinquishment of a known right or such conduct as warrants

inference of relinquishment of such right. There is no case of waiver

pleaded and on the contrary it is pleaded that separate suit for

partition of the movables would be filed. The suit was thus a suit for

partial partition which is not maintainable. The contention that the

waiver is statutorily presumed under Order II Rule 2 of CPC as sought

to be contended by the learned counsel for the Plaintiff cannot be

accepted. There is no relinquishment or abandonment of part of the

claim. The Apex Court in Kenchegowda (supra) has held that the suit

for partial partition in the absence of inclusion of other joint family

properties was not warranted in law. This is the general rule against

maintainability of suits for partial partition but in case the properties

were not established to be joint or are disputed otherwise held

commonly their exclusion would not be fatal to the suit for partition.

In this context, apart from general denial to the movables forming

part of the joint family property, no specific case is put up by the

Defendant Nos 1 to 6 that these movables are not joint family

properties. The Plaintiff No 1 has deposed in his evidence that the

four vehicles are joint family properties and separate suit will be filed

for recovery of Plaintiff's share upon ascertainment of market value

of the vehicles. The suit being for partial partition was thus not

Patil-SR (ch) 47 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

maintainable. 71. In Shivaram v. Vrundavani (supra), learned Single Judge of this

Court has held that if all the properties are not included in the

common hotchpot in the suit for partition and separate possession,

the said suit would get dismissed purely on such failure and it is in the

interest of all the litigating sides who are naturally close relatives in

the suit for partition and separate possession to have all the

properties included in the suit for proper adjudication.

RIGHT OF DEFENDANT NOS.7 TO 9 TO PARTITION OF THE SUIT
PROPERTIES: 72. The substantive relief sought by the Plaintiffs was cancellation

of registered partition deed. The instant suit, thus, stands on a

different footing than an usual suit for partition as it is only upon the

cancellation of registered partition deed, that partition could be

reopened. The Defendant Nos. 7 to 9, who are the sisters of Plaintiff

No.1 and the Defendant No. 1, supported the case of the Plaintiffs,

however, they have not challenged the registered partition deed

dated 23rd December, 1999 by way of counterclaim. In the absence of

any independent challenge being mounted by the Defendant Nos.7 to

9, the necessary corollary will be that it is only in event the partition is

re-opened that the Defendant Nos 7 to 9 would be entitled to a share

Patil-SR (ch) 48 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

in the joint family properties. 73. In this context, it will be profitable to consider the position of

daughters as coparcener by virtue of the amendment of the year

2005 to Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act 1956. By virtue of the

amendment of the year 2005 to Section 6 of Hindu Succession Act,

1956, the daughters of a coparcener in a joint Hindu family governed

by Mitakshara Law are given equal status as that of the sons by birth.

Sub Section (5) of Section 6 provides that nothing contained in this

section shall apply to a partition, which has been effected before the

20th day of December, 2004. The Apex Court in Ganduri

Koteshwaramma v. Chakiri Yanadi (AIR 2012 SC 169) has held: 74. The applicability of the amended Section 6 of Hindu Succession

Act, 1956 to Defendant Nos.7 to 9 is therefore dependent on the non

Patil-SR (ch) 49 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

alienation by the two modes prescribed there in i.e. by way of

registered deed of partition or by way of decree of Court. The

execution of the registered partition deed on 23 rd December, 1999 is

admitted by the Plaintiffs and the Defendant Nos 1 to 6. Much

emphasis has been laid by Mr. Killedar, learned counsel appearing for

Defendant Nos 7 to 9 on the fact that Defendant Nos 7 to 9 not

being party signatory to the partition deed, the same was not binding

upon the Defendant Nos 7 to 9 and by virtue of amended Section 6 of

Hindu Succession Act, 1956, the daughters could seek partition of the

suit properties. 75. The fallacy of the said contention is that the same overlooks

the statutory position which protects the alienation by two

prescribed modes. The amendment of the year 2005 to Section 6 of

Hindu Succession Act, 1956 protects the alienation by mode of

registered partition deed or decree of Court effected before 20 th

December, 2004. The submission of Mr. Killedar would attain force

only if registered deed of partition is held to have been rightly

cancelled on the ground of fraud and misrepresentation, in which

case the Defendant Nos 7 to 9 would be entitled to a share equal to

that of the sons. As indicated above, the entire dispute hinges on the

validity of the registered deed of partition dated 23 rd December,

Patil-SR (ch) 50 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

1999, which deed itself was not tendered in evidence by any of the

parties. Further, even on merits the Plaintiffs have not established

fraud so as to be entitled to cancellation of the partition deed.

Without the registered partition deed being cancelled, the Defendant

Nos. 7 to 9 who have not independently challenged the partition

deed, are not entitled to seek share in the joint family properties. 76. The Apex Court in Vineeta Sharma (supra) in paragraph nos.

68, 69 and 76 has held : 77. Apart from the above, even on merits as the Defendant Nos 7

to 9 have relinquished their share, they were not entitled to seek

partition. It is settled that oral relinquishment is permissible in law

(See AIR 1965 BOM 74 Ramdas Cimma vs Pralhad Deorao). The

Defendant Nos.1 to 6 have produced documents on record below

Exhibit 46. The 7/12 extracts and the Mutation Entries produced on

record were admitted by the Plaintiffs and marked as Exhibits. During

the cross-examination, PW-1 has deposed that he has no objection in

Patil-SR (ch) 52 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

respect of the Mutation Entries and 7/12 extracts produced on

record. During the final hearing before the Trial Court, the

application dated 21st August, 1986 alongwith statement of Plaintiff

No.1, Defendant No.1 and 7 to 9 recorded before the Talathi were

marked as Exhibit 106 and 107 being certified copies of public

documents and relevant for deciding the dispute between the

parties. Exhibit 107 is statement given to the talathi admitting that

during the lifetime of Dhondiba, the properties were partitioned

between the Plaintiff No 1 and Defendant No 1 with the consent of

the parties and there is no objection to mutating their respective

names. 78. Further, in Vineeta Sharma (supra) the Apex Court has also

considered the issue of oral partition and held that oral partition was

permissible and the burden of proof remained on the person who

asserted that there was partition. In the context of oral partition, the

Apex Court in paragraph No. 135 held thus : JUDGMENTS CITED : [a] The registered partition deed dated 23rd December, 1999 was

not tendered in evidence by either of the parties and in the absence

of the deed forming part of judicial record, the document could not

have been read by the Trial Court and the 1 st Appellate Court for the

purpose of adjudicating its validity. The declaration of the Trial Court

and the 1st Appellate Court cancelling the registered partition deed

dated 23rd December, 1999 as vitiated by fraud is unsustainable.

[b] Even if it is accepted that the registered partition deed dated

23rd December, 1999 is part of judicial record, the fraud pleaded by

the Plaintiffs is that the deed is not as per the oral terms agreed upon

in the presence of respectable persons from the village, boundaries

Patil-SR (ch) 65 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

of properties are not fixed, area of properties allotted to the

Plaintiffs as per partition deed are incorrect, the allotted properties

are not handed over and all properties do not form part of the

partition deed. No witnesses from the village were examined in

whose presence the oral terms were agreed upon, no documentary

evidence has been produced to demonstrate the area of the

properties forming subject matter of partition deed, the manner in

which the boundaries have been stated incorrectly to show unfair

division of properties. The oral evidence is reiteration of plaint and is

completely silent as regards the areas of properties, the comparative

allotment, the properties of which possession has not been given and

properties left out from the partition. The inference of the Courts

that the registered partition deed is invalid and vitiated by fraud

suffers from perversity as there is no evidence on record.

[c] The Plaintiffs seek to re-open the partition effected by

registered partition deed dated 23 rd December, 1999, on basis of

fraud by seeking relief of cancellation of registered partition deed.

There is finality which is attached to the partition effected by

agreement of parties and partition can be re-opened only if the

Plaintiffs are able to establish fraud as pleaded. Apart from the fact

that the case of the Plaintiffs does not have an element of fraud, the

Patil-SR (ch) 66 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

Plaintiffs have failed to establish their case as pleaded and the

partition cannot be re-opened and the Plaintiffs are not entitled to

the relief of partition and separate possession being relief

consequential to the cancellation of partition deed.

[d] The pleadings in the plaint is that the joint family movable

properties are not included in the instant suit and separate suit for

partition of the movables will be instituted. The First Appellate Court

has held that there was waiver of right in the movables without any

case of waiver pleaded by the Plaintiffs. The suit being suit for partial

partition the consequential relief of partition and separate

possession was thus not maintainable in law. [e] The Defendant Nos.7 to 9, i.e. the sisters have not filed any

counter-claim challenging the registered partition deed dated 23 rd

December, 1999. Absent the cancellation of the registered partition

deed, in view of the settled position in law that the amendment of

the year 2005 to Section 6 of Hindu Succession Act, 1956 will not

affect the partition duly registered under the Registration Act, 1908 prior to 20th December, 2004, the daughters will not be entitled to

seek re-opening of partition. It is only in event of the partition being

re-opened, that the daughters would be entitled to status of

coparceners equal to that of sons. Further, there is no challenge to

Patil-SR (ch) 67 of 68
 SA 240-11 (J).doc

 the long standing mutation entries on record which notes the oral

 relinquishment by the Defendant Nos 7 to 9. 84. The substantial questions of law are accordingly answered in

 favour of the Appellants and the judgment of Appellate Court dated

 7th January, 2011 is quashed and set aside. Resultantly, Regular Civil

 Suit No 116 of 2002 stands dismissed. [Sharmila U. Deshmukh, J.] 85. At this state, request is made by learned counsel appearing for

 Defendant Nos. 7 to 9 seeking stay of the present judgment for a

 period of four weeks as the apprehension is that third party rights

 may be created. Request is opposed by learned counsel appearing for

 the Defendant Nos. 1 to 4. Considering the apprehension expressed,

 I am inclined to grant relief of status quo for a period of four weeks

 from the date of uploading of this judgment against all the parties.