This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of Code

of Criminal Procedure (for short ' Cr.P.C .) by the

petitioner/accused to quash the proceedings against him in

Spl.S.C.No.39 of 2021 on the file of Special Judge for trial of

SCs & STs (POA) Act Cases and V Additional District Sessions

Judge, Adilabad, registered for the offences under Section 290 of the Indian Penal Code (for short ' IPC ') and Section 3 (1) (s) (r) of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of

Atrocities) Act, 1989 (for short 'the Act'). 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 16.12.2020,

respondent No.2 filed a complaint alleging that the marriage of

respondent No.2 and daughter of petitioner/accused was

performed on 17.03.2015 at Annavaram Temple. The petitioner

and his family did not agree to the said marriage. However,

their marriage was registered before the Registrar of Marriage,

Mancherial, in the presence of the family members of

respondent No.2. It is further alleged in the complaint that the 2 GAC, J
 Crlp_11380_2022

petitioner and his family tried to separate respondent No.2 and

his wife by stating false assertions against him and threatened

him with dire consequences to send back the petitioner's

daughter to them. It is further alleged that the petitioner

abused respondent No.2 by taking his caste name in the

presence of Sarpanch, MPTC, his friends, relatives and family

members at the house of village Sarpanch, further, the

petitioner and their family members took their daughter with

them. Therefore, respondent No.2 registered a case in FIR

No.269 of 2020 on the file of the Station House Officer, Jaipur

Police Station, Mancherial. 3. Heard learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri S.Ganesh,

learned Assistant Public Prosecutor for respondent No.1 - State.

Perused the record. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner contended that there is

no iota of truth in the allegations made against the petitioner;

the investigation was conducted mechanically; no incident took

place at the house of village Sarpanch; false case has been

foisted against the petitioner, the marriage of respondent No.2

and the daughter of the petitioner took place against his wish 3 GAC, J
 Crlp_11380_2022

but his daughter is not interested to stay with respondent No.2;

the police have not conducted the investigation properly and

filed the charge sheet mechanically before the Court concerned.

He further contended that none of the allegations made in the

complaint against the petitioner are corroborated by any of the

witnesses in the statements under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. and

that the ingredients for the offence alleged in the complaint do

not attract the petitioner herein. Therefore, he prayed to quash

the proceedings against the petitioner. 5. To support his contentions, learned counsel for the petitioner

has relied upon the judgment of the Delhi High Court in Daya

Bhatnagar and State1, wherein it is held as follows: Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe members thus
 became necessary. The statement of objects and
 reasons of the Act reads: 19. The SC/ST Act was enacted with a laudable
object to protect vulnerable section of the society. Sub-
clauses (i) to (xv) of Section 3(1) of the Act enumerate
various kinds of atrocities that might be perpetrated
against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, which
constitute an offence. However, Sub-clause (x) is the
only clause where even offending "utterances" have
been made punishable. The Legislature required
'intention' as an essential ingredient for the offence of
Insult', "intimidation' and "humiliation' of a member of
the Scheduled Casts or Scheduled Tribe in any place
within "public view'. Offences under the Act are quite
grave and provide stringent punishments. Graver is the
offence, stronger should be the proof. The interpretation
which suppresses or evades the mischief and advances
the object of the Act has to be adopted. Keeping this in
view, looking to the aims and objects of the Act, the
expression "public view" in Section 3(1)(x) of the Act has 5 GAC, J
 Crlp_11380_2022

to be interpreted to mean that the public persons
present, (howsoever small number it may be), should be
independent and impartial and not interested in any of
the parties. In other words, persons having any kind of
close relationship or association with the complainant,
would necessarily get excluded. I am again in
agreement with the interpretation put on the expression
"public view" by learned brother Mr. Justice B.A. Khan.
The relevant portion of his judgment reads as under: 20. In the light of the above discussion, one part
of the first question under reference, namely, "What is
the correct and real meaning of expression "public view" stands answered. 21. The second part of the above question; 9. The long title of the Act is to prevent the
commission of offences of atrocities against the
members of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled
Tribes, to provide for Special Courts and Exclusive
Special Courts for the trial of such offences and for the
relief and rehabilitation of the victims of such offences
and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto. 14. Another key ingredient of the provision is
insult or intimidation in "any place within public view".
What is to be regarded as "place in public view" had
come up for consideration before this Court in the
judgment reported as Swaran Singh & Ors. v.
State through Standing Counsel & Ors. The Court had
drawn distinction between the expression "public place" 19. This Court in a judgment reported as Dr. Subhash
Kashinath Mahajan v. State of Maharashtra & Anr. issued certain directions in respect of investigations
required to be conducted under the Act. In a review filed
by the Union against the said judgment , this Court in a
judgment reported as Union of India v. State of
Maharashtra & Ors. reviewed the directions issued by
this Court and held that if there is a false and
unsubstantiated FIR, the proceedings under Section
482 of the Code can be invoked. The Court held as under: 20. Later, while examining the constitutionality of the
 provisions of the Amending Act (Central Act No. 27 of
 2018), this Court in a judgment reported as Prathvi Raj
 Chauhan v. Union of India & Ors. held that proceedings
 can be quashed under Section 482 of the Code. It was
 held as under: 7. The above judgment clearly applies to the facts and

circumstances of the present case. In the said judgment , the

guidelines given by the Hon'ble Apex Court deals with quash

petition with respect to the accused, which are relevant to SC

ST offences. 8. On perusal of the contents of FIR, it is evident that the

alleged incident took place on 26.06.2020 and the FIR was

registered on 16.12.2020, which clearly reveals that after a

period of five months, the report was given to the police against 10 GAC, J
 Crlp_11380_2022

the petitioner. The contents of the report also disclose that the

petitioner and his family members were against the marriage of

respondent No.2 and the daughter of petitioner. But, on

17.03.2015, the marriage was registered before the Registrar of

Marriage, Mancherial. The contents of entire complaint also

discloses that on 26.06.2020, the respondent No.2 and his wife

came to the house of the village Sarpanch along with their

relatives, wherein petitioner and his family members abused the

respondent No.2 in filthy language by taking the name of caste

and also took away his wife. Respondent No.2 called his wife

over phone and asked her to come back to their home, for

which, she answered that she will come after few days but did

not return. The contents of the complaint clearly discloses that

the present complaint is filed by respondent No.2 since his wife

has not joined his conjugal life, for which, the petitioner is

responsible. 9. On perusal of the statements of the witnesses under Section 161 of Cr.P.C., it is evident that no allegations were

made against the petitioner by any one of the witnesses, expect

in the statement of respondent No.2. The petitioner has also

sought quashing of the proceedings on the ground that the 11 GAC, J
 Crlp_11380_2022

allegations made in the complaint against him do not make out

any offence under the Special Act and moreover respondent

No.2 belongs to scheduled caste and the dispute is with regard

to the love marriage, which took place between daughter of the

petitioner and respondent No.2. As stated supra, there is delay

of approximately five months in preferring the complaint and

moreover the statements under Section 161 of Cr.P.C. do not

support the allegations made by respondent No.2. Therefore,

this Court finds that the charges framed against the petitioner

under Section 290 of the IPC and Section 3 (1) (s) (r) of the Act

are not made out. Consequently, the proceedings against the

petitioner are liable to be quashed. 10. In the result, the Criminal Petition is allowed and the

proceedings in S.C.Spl.No.39 of 2021 on the file of Special

Judge for trial of SCs & STs (POA) Act Cases and V Additional

District Sessions Judge, Adilabad, are hereby quashed. Pending miscellaneous applications, if any, shall stand

closed. __________________________________
 G.ANUPAMA CHAKRAVARTHY, J

Date: .07.2023
TMK 12 GAC, J
 Crlp_11380_2022

 HONOURABLE SMT JUSTICE G.ANUPAMA CHAKRAVARTHY

 CRIMINAL PETITION No.11380 of 2022

 Date: .07.2023

TMK