Tamil Nadu had the legislative competence to enact its controversial ban on online gambling in the state, observed the state government in what appears to be its counter-affidavit filed in the ongoing gaming industry-led challenge against the law in the Madras High Court.

The affidavit was shared with MediaNama by multiple sources. We have also reached out to multiple government officials to confirm its authenticity.

Filed by gaming industry associations and companies in April before the Madras High Court, the petition, as recalled in the counter-affidavit, argued that the southern state lacked the legislative competence to ban online games of skill on the law, which typically lies outside states’ purviews. Remember: states have powers to regulate gambling and betting, which typically comprise games of chance. The ban also affected the online gaming companies’ rights to carry out business, held under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. Experts separately questioned many of the state’s approaches to regulating the sector.

Earlier this week, the Madras High Court declined interim relief to the gaming companies, preferring to take up the petitions for final hearings as the arguments made in both interim and final proceedings would be identical. Gaming companies (represented by Mukul Rohatgi and Abhishek Manu Singhvi) will argue their case on July 13th, after which the Tamil Nadu government (represented by Kapil Sibal), may reply on July 20th.

The Madras High Court had previously struck down a similar state-wide ban on online gambling in August 2021 on similar grounds of legislative overreach and infringement of fundamental rights. The current iteration of the law comes in the wake of multiple gambling-related suicides in the state, disproportionately emerging from young or vulnerable groups.

Here’s a summary of all the arguments made by the Tamil Nadu government in the counter-affidavit:

The law was drafted in relation to matters listed under Entries 1 (public order), 6 (public health), and 34 (betting and gambling) of the State List of the Indian Constitution, the state argued. The law also qualifies as a criminal law under Entry 1 of the Concurrent List (which lists out issues both the states and the Centre can legislate on). Under Article 246(3), which empowers states to legislate on Concurrent List issues, Tamil Nadu also has exclusive competence to enact the law.

The gambling law as a criminal law : “The legislature in its wisdom was convinced that online gaming and gambling addiction pose a serious threat to public order and thus made a law for regulating online gaming and for prohibiting online gambling in the State,” the government noted.

The gambling law as a public health law : The law was a direct response to the mental health impacts online gaming addiction was having on Tamil Nadu’s youth, the government argued citing data from a survey of over 2 lakh government teachers:

“More than seventy-four per cent of the teachers responded that the concentration of the students is impacted, sixty-seven per cent of the respondents said that they noticed eye defects, more than seventy-four per cent of them said they noticed decrease in intelligent [sic] quotient, writing skills and creativity of students, more than seventy seven per cent said they have noticed increase in anger in students and more than seventy two per cent said they have noticed indiscipline before the students.” The law’s various provisions—like regulating players ages or screen time—are an attempt to counter these affects.

The law as a gambling and betting law : The state government has powers to frame laws on betting on both games of skill and chance. Also, there are no legal impediments preventing Tamil Nadu from enacting a law on ‘betting’ on games of skill too.

Describing the argument of conflicts between the law and rules as “unpersuasive and untenable”, and refusing to concede that the Indian government actually has the regulatory powers to bring its online gaming rules , the Tamil Nadu government vehemently denied any gaps between the two laws. “The two legislations are entirely reconcilable and capable of operating together,” the government argued.

It’s the gaming rules that lack legislative competence : The Tamil Nadu government argued that any Central law on a subject matter appearing in the State List lacks legislative competence. Contrary to the petitioners’ arguments, it is the online gaming rules which suffer from this vice, as betting and gambling is a state subject. There is no question of the state’s gambling law being invalid on account of its ‘repugnancy’ with the online gaming rules, the state argued.

Even if taken at face value, the centre’s online gaming rules prevent online gaming companies from hosting information or content violating prevailing laws : The law and rules are in consonance. For example, whenever an online gaming company hosts games violating a prevailing law (like Tamil Nadu’s gambling law), that would be a breach of its due diligence obligations under the Indian government’s online gaming rules.

The gambling law respects the balance of powers : Tamil Nadu’s law also does not encroach on the Indian government’s powers to regulate Internet communications. For example, state gaming authorities may recommend that the state government take action on a particular game—after which the government would request the Centre to block it under Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000.

The petitioners can’t claim fundamental rights : The petitioners are a society consisting of “skill gaming companies”—so, they cannot claim to be citizens of India under Article 19, nor can they be entitled to the fundamental rights it bestows, the state argued. Even if they did qualify as citizens, the petitioners cannot agitate for the rights of skilled-game players to carry out these activities as their occupations. At the most, they can argue that their own rights to carry out their business were violated.

Strong public interest in banning gambling : The Tamil Nadu government added there is a strong public interest in regulating (and potentially prohibiting) businesses to prevent social harm. Strong restrictions on an industry could qualify as a “reasonable restriction” on the fundamental rights to carry out a business, as opposed to restrictions on individuals’ rights. The state argued:

“For example, an individual professing a certain religion may have a fundamental right to play the sport of ‘bike racing’ and may claim exemption from the rules that require the wearing of a helmet for participating in the sport on the ground that the practice of her religion requires her to wear a specific form of headgear. However, this would not lead to the conclusion that a rule prohibiting companies from organizing sans-helmet bike races is an unreasonable restriction of their ‘trade and business’ rights.”

The law is a reasonable and proportionate restriction on the petitioner’s right to do business : It also satisfies separate proportionality tests, the government argued:

There are no fundamental rights protecting people organising games of chance, or betting services for them : In light of this, the petitioner has the burden of demonstrating that the games provided by its members are games of skill, the government argued.

Tamil Nadu’s law follows in the footsteps of other criminal laws : The petitioners and its members offer online gaming services for free and derive profits from these services. These businesses qualify as ‘gaming houses’ whose activities can be prohibited and prosecuted under criminal law (presumably pertaining to gambling). Tamil Nadu’s gambling law tries to do the same, the government argued.

The Tamil Nadu government added that the Supreme Court’s verdict in State of AP v K. Satynarayana (1968), repeatedly cited in gaming law discussions, never decisively declared rummy to be a game of skill. The Court found that rummy wasn’t a game of pure chance and involved some skill. “The constitutional implication of declaring rummy as a game of skill in terms of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution was not raised by any party and was not present to the mind of the…court,” Tamil Nadu pointed out. Also, the ruling can’t be used to prevent restrictions on businesses organising rummy games for profit—because the verdict also noted that if there was evidence of gambling, “the offence may be brought home”.

The law simply regulates online gaming and gambling, and doesn’t make any “authoritative legal pronouncement” on games of skill or chance, Tamil Nadu added. It added that any pronouncement on the character of physical games (such as whether they are games of skill or chance) wouldn’t hold true for their online version. This binary needs to be recalibrated in the digital age, the state argued. For example:

“…A computer does not use a physical device for generating random outcomes and…the…features which enable a truly random outcome are not present in the case of a computer. Computers deploy a software known as ‘Random Number Generator’ (RNG)…It is submitted that despite harping on the equivalence between real-life ‘true chance’ and chance generated via RNG, the petitioners/its members do not appear to have faith in the mechanism. For this reason, several online games providers include a disclaimer as to the consequences of deploying RNG and the significance of RNG certification in their terms of service…”

Online games increase chances of fraud : Tamil Nadu added that the software knows all the cards being dealt (including the next card that’ll be dealt), the cards in the hands of each player, and the unopened cards (which they can change too). Players can’t prevent the software from breaching the game’s rules, and they also can’t identify if other players are humans or bots or not. This increases the chances of fraud and harm.

Gaming companies’ use of AI ; The government particularly flagged the use of AI by gaming companies, which could process player behaviour and predict future outcomes at large scales. Bots and AI are used by gaming platforms to play against humans in trial games or to substitute for humans if their Internet connection falters. Players can use AI bots to cheat too. It is impossible to detect their use in a game—regulating these games (instead of banning them) poses different challenges for the state, Tamil Nadu argued.

It currently makes financial sense to run rigged games : User interfaces are calibrated to make them addictive by design, the government added, before listing out multiple suicides that took place in the state due to gambling-related financial losses. The final blow the government delivered:

“The tremendous stakes involved in the online gaming business can be gauged from the established fact that several online games providers are offering ‘free bonuses’ worth between Rs. 2,000/- and Rs. 10,000/- to lakhs of players via SMS messages in order to entice them to participate in the games. It can be reasonably assumed that no business would offer incentives at such a scale unless it is confident of being able to recoup such amounts. If the betting involved in the games offered by online games providers were truly equal chance betting or skill-based in nature, it would not make commercial sense for the said businesses to offer such incentives.”

State laws are valid as long as there is a real nexus between what is sought to be regulated and the territory of the state, and that the liability sought to be imposed is pertinent to the connection. The government argued:

Read more

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event