Around 37 incidents of ransomeware attacks were reported to the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), according to Minister of State for Electronics and IT P P Chaudhary’s reply in Lok Sabha . Of these, 34 incidents were of Wannacry and Petya ransomware. The minister did not give details for each separately. The answer was in response to a question from MPs Harish Meena and Dr Thokchom Meinya. Chaudhary also did not provide details of the financial impact of these incidents when asked.

WannaCry ransomware attacks were first reported on 12 th May 2017 and Petya on 27 th June 2017.

Note that a total of 65 ransomware incidents have been reported to CERT-In in the past :

CERT-In is an emergency response team set up under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for dealing with a range of cyber-attacks. Apart from this, the Government of India has four Sectoral Computer Emergency Response Teams to address Cyber Security Threats in Power Systems: Transmission, Thermal, Hydro and Distribution.

Do read: Cyber War stories from startups: ransomware attacks, network level breaches – #NAMAcloud

In addition to this, CERT-In claimed to have received reports of more than 27,000 cyber security threat incidents in the first half of 2017 alone . These include a range of threats like phishing attacks, website intrusions and defacements or damages to data as well as ransomware attacks. As per CERT-In’s data, the number of cyber security incidents reported in the past 3 years:

From the above data, it’s notable that the number of cyber security incidents has been growing steadily in India. Authorities including the telecom regulator TRAI and the judiciary have stepped in. TRAI had raised the issue of threats posed by mobile applications that collect sensitive user data . On the other hand, India’s top court is looking at whether privacy should be a fundamental right —both offline and online–which will affect how companies handle user data in India.

Here is a list of cyber security incidents that affected India in the past one year. (We will keep updating this list over time)

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event