SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] COPS OR SOMEONE HELP ME
DATE: 2017-11-27
SCORE: 16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7fui52/np_cops_or_someone_help_me/

--- POST TEXT ---

It's been 3 months since I got robbed. My phone had pictures of my family ex etc. I was robbed while writing an exam in NIOS Noida, india I know the robber. 

When I was entering to write the exam, they said we weren't allowed to keep mobile phones. We kept it in a bag. Now after I came out and tried to find my phone it was obviously robbed. 

There was one boy who was asking me continuously about my phone. Well, he was the one who robbed it. 

Let me tell you how. 

The next exam was 2 days later. When i was writing my exam he was calling me from far telling me that well....to meet him after the exam. We met. He then asks what happened? I say I have filed an FIR. Then the next exam this same dude calls me again. 

He says he has been so busy to well...check how to track your phone. He gave me a website. And said you need to enter your PIN. The way he said it he asked my pin and by slip of tongue I gave it to him. 

I was shocked to see that I just did it. He then started to walk fast. What was more shocking was when he saw his father, he got near me and said okay I will help you find your phone just don't tell things to my father or else he will say I only help everyone and what not.

I knew he was the thief because at that very moment well....I checked the fake website and it wouldn't work. I noted down his car number. Not only that but the day I gave him the pin my phone synced data. I saw it on Google. So that proves he opened it. Because that's the day he asked me. 

Now my family was annoying. They said just because I am a Muslim the Indian police won't take my FIR. Moreover it's "just a phone". I live in Qatar. I have no idea how the Indian system works. I can spend money on corrupt officials as long as they help me. 

I know how to get my phone. This is how the investigation should go in one day. 

1) Go to Nios and see who were giving the accounts exam on 25th 26th and 29th. I remember his face. 

2) Now that we have his address we can well visit his house. But we won't because he can make a case for defamation as he seems to be the son of a big guy. His car was filled with stickers of VIP and stuff.

3) we stay near his house and wireshark the entire data Passing through. I have the IMEI of the phone. We match it and keep the packets 

4) When that is done I have papers that claim the phone is owned by me. 

5) we arrest him on charges of robbery. 

I really need help. I am in Qatar. I don't know but this thing keeps hitting my head everyday. That phone has cringy chats that can destroy my life and my ex's and family's life as well. It has a 128gb SD card. I formatted my phone by Google but the SD card still haunts me.

I don't know the robber neither does he know me. But well. It has all my social medias and stuff. It's been 3 months. Nothing bad has happened to me or my ex. But I don't know what's gonna come and that haunts me every single day. Can anyone help me out?