We missed it earlier

There has been an increase in the use of artificial intelligence to write articles published on websites that pass off as news websites, according to a report published by NewsGuard. These websites are known for churning out clickbait articles to optimise advertising revenue, the report added.

What is NewsGuard: It is a popular tool that shows trust scores and ratings for more than 8,500 news and information websites on the internet. It can be installed as a browser extension as you search for news and information online.

The company’s research in April 2023 found 49 websites entirely or mostly generating content by “artificial intelligence language models designed to mimic human communication”. They were in seven languages — Chinese, Czech, English, French, Portuguese, Tagalog, and Thai.

It also highlighted that these websites put out a high volume (more than 100 sometimes) of content related to topics including, politics, health, entertainment, finance, and technology. It added that there is no clarity on who owns or controls these platforms.

“Some of the content advances false narratives. Nearly all of the content features bland language and repetitive phrases, hallmarks of artificial intelligence,” reads the report.

Why it matters: It is important to make note of this report, especially after a fake image of a bomb blast at the Pentagon generated by AI went viral. The image went viral across the world, leading to news channels picking it up as breaking news and causing the American stock market to plummet briefly. The report sheds light on the proliferation of AI-generated content to create fake articles, disingenuous social media posts, and dodgy reviews, among other things.

🚨 BREAKING:🚨An AI image of an explosion at the US Pentagon just caused a $500 billion market cap swing.

It was set off by a fake Bloomberg Twitter account with a Verified checkmark.

The struggle to identify the truth is getting dangerous…

(h/t @KobeissiLetter ) pic.twitter.com/zrh4K2Nj2L

— Lorenzo Green 〰️ (@mrgreen) May 23, 2023

Key highlights of the report: The report said that concerns over the use of AI to create entire news organisations are now coming true and revealed the following—

Overview on advisory issued by CERT-In: A recent advisory was issued by India’s cybersecurity agency, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). It warns that AI models like that of Open AI can be used by threat actors to carry out various malicious activities and target individuals and organizations.

The advisory pointed out that AI can be used to disseminate fake news, scams, misinformation, phishing messages, and deep fakes. It can also create fake websites, web pages, and apps to distribute malware to users. You can read the advisory here .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event