% 19.01.2024
 CRL.M.A. 1703/2024 (exemption from filing certified copies of
 the annexures) 1. Exemption allowed, subject to all just exceptions, 2. The application stands disposed of. 3. The present petition is filed under Section 482 of the Code
 of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( CrPC ) for quashing of FIR No.
 330/2023 dated 28.07.2023, for offences punishable under Sections 354A / 509 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( IPC ),
 registered at Police Station K.N. Katju Marg, including all
 consequential proceedings arising out of the said FIR. 4. It is averred that Respondent No.2 made a complaint to the
 SHO, Police Station K.N. Katju Marg, Rohini, Delhi alleging that
 the petitioner had sexually harassed her, which later culminated CRL.M.C. 433/2024 Page 1 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 02:46:43
 into the aforementioned FIR No. 330/2023. 5. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the
 present FIR was registered due to some misunderstanding
 between the parties. He further submits that the petitioner has
 apologised to Respondent No.2 for any inconvenience caused to
 her. 6. The present petition has been filed on the ground that the
 parties have amicably settled all their disputes by Compromise
 Deed dated 16.12.2023 with the intervention of respectable
 members of the society and well wishers, on their own free will,
 without any coercion, pressure or undue influence. 7. The parties are present in person and have been duly
 identified by the Investigating Officer. 8. Respondent No.2, on being asked, states that she does not
 wish to pursue the proceedings arising out of the present FIR and
 has no objection if the proceedings are quashed. 9. Offence under Section 354A of the IPC is non-
 compoundable and offence under Section 509 of the IPC is
 compoundable. 10. It is well settled that the High Court while exercising its
 powers under Section 482 of the CrPC can compound offences
 which are non-compoundable under the Code on the ground that
 there is a compromise between the accused and the complainant.
 The Hon'ble Apex Court has laid down parameters and
 guidelines for High Court while accepting settlement and
 quashing the proceedings. In Narinder Singh & Ors. V. State of
 Punjab & Anr. : (2014) 6 SCC 466, the Hon'ble Supreme Court
 has observed as under :- While exercising the power the High Court is
 to form an opinion on either of the aforesaid
 two objectives. 29.3. Such a power is not to be exercised in
 those prosecutions which involve heinous and
 serious offences of mental depravity or
 offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc. Such
 offences are not private in nature and have a
 serious impact on society. Similarly, for the
 offences alleged to have been committed
 under special statute like the Prevention of
 Corruption Act or the offences committed by
 public servants while working in that capacity
 are not to be quashed merely on the basis of
 compromise between the victim and the
 offender. 29.4. On the other hand, those criminal cases CRL.M.C. 433/2024 Page 3 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 02:46:43
 having overwhelmingly and predominantly civil
 character, particularly those arising out of
 commercial transactions or arising out of
 matrimonial relationship or family disputes
 should be quashed when the parties have
 resolved their entire disputes among
 themselves. 29.5. While exercising its powers, the High
 Court is to examine as to whether the
 possibility of conviction is remote and bleak
 and continuation of criminal cases would put
 the accused to great oppression and prejudice
 and extreme injustice would be caused to him
 by not quashing the criminal cases." (emphasis supplied) 11. Similarly, in the case of Parbatbhai Aahir & Ors
 v. State of Gujarat & Anr. : (2017) 9 SCC 641, the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court had observed as under :- The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 02:46:43
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482,
 the High Court must evaluate whether the ends
 of justice would justify the exercise of the
 inherent power. 16.4. While the inherent power of the High
 Court has a wide ambit and plenitude it has to
 be exercised (i) to secure the ends of justice, or (ii) to prevent an abuse of the process of any
 court. 16.5. The decision as to whether a complaint or
 first information report should be quashed on
 the ground that the offender and victim have
 settled the dispute, revolves ultimately on the
 facts and circumstances of each case and no
 exhaustive elaboration of principles can be
 formulated. 16.6. In the exercise of the power under Section
 482 and while dealing with a plea that the
 dispute has been settled, the High Court must
 have due regard to the nature and gravity of
 the offence. Heinous and serious offences
 involving mental depravity or offences such as
 murder, rape and dacoity cannot
 appropriately be quashed though the victim or
 the family of the victim have settled the
 dispute. Such offences are, truly speaking, not
 private in nature but have a serious impact
 upon society. The decision to continue with
 the trial in such cases is founded on the
 overriding element of public interest in
 punishing persons for serious offences.
 16.7. As distinguished from serious offences,
 there may be criminal cases which have an
 overwhelming or predominant element of a
 civil dispute. They stand on a distinct footing
 insofar as the exercise of the inherent power to
 quash is concerned. 16.8. Criminal cases involving offences which
 arise from commercial, financial, mercantile,
 partnership or similar transactions with an
 essentially civil flavour may in appropriate
 situations fall for quashing where parties have
 settled the dispute. This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 02:46:43
 16.9. In such a case, the High Court may quash
 the criminal proceeding if in view of the
 compromise between the disputants, the
 possibility of a conviction is remote and the
 continuation of a criminal proceeding would
 cause oppression and prejudice; and
 16.10. There is yet an exception to the principle
 set out in propositions 16.8. and 16.9. above.
 Economic offences involving the financial and
 economic well-being of the State have
 implications which lie beyond the domain of a
 mere dispute between private disputants. The
 High Court would be justified in declining to
 quash where the offender is involved in an
 activity akin to a financial or economic fraud
 or misdemeanour. The consequences of the act
 complained of upon the financial or economic
 system will weigh in the balance." (emphasis supplied) 12. Keeping in view the nature of dispute and that the
 parties have amicably entered into a settlement, this Court feels
 that no useful purpose would be served by keeping the dispute
 alive and continuance of the proceedings would amount to abuse
 of the process of Court. I am of the considered opinion that it is a
 fit case to exercise discretionary jurisdiction under Section 482 of
 the CrPC. 13. In view of the above, FIR No. 330/2023 and all
 consequential proceedings arising therefrom are quashed, subject
 to payment of cost of ₹10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand Only), to
 be deposited with Delhi Police Welfare Fund within a period of
 four weeks from today. 14. The present petition is disposed of in the aforesaid terms. AMIT MAHAJAN, J
 JANUARY 19, 2024 / 'KDK' CRL.M.C. 433/2024 Page 6 of 6 This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 25/01/2024 at 02:46:43