The United Kingdom (UK) is urging Meta to not roll out end-to-end encryption on Instagram and Messenger, according to a report by Reuters. The report suggests that Meta, which already provides end-to-end encryption on its messaging platform WhatsApp plans to extend this feature across Messenger and Instagram direct messages, saying the technology re-enforced safety and security. British interior minister Suella Braverman has spoken up about Meta’s plans saying that it should keep safeguards when rolling out end-to-end encryption (e2ee) on Facebook and Instagram.

The UK has recently passed its Online Safety Bill, which holds platforms responsible for ensuring that child sexual abuse material, or CSAM, is not being transmitted through their service. Further, under Clause 122 of this bill, the Office of Communications (OfCom, the UK’s communications regulator) can issue notices to providers of messaging services, requiring them to develop and deploy software that will scan phones for prohibited content.

In April this year, WhatsApp and other e2ee platforms wrote an open letter stating that the Online Safety Bill (which was still in the draft stage at the time) could break encryption, opening the door to routine, general, and indiscriminate surveillance of personal messages which would fundamentally undermine everyone’s ability to communicate securely. While the government has since clarified that it has no intention to break encryption, according to a blog post released by The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF, digital rights non-profit), the bill continues to allow the government to force companies to build technology that can scan regardless of encryption.

E2ee encryption is a security method that prevents third parties (including the platform being used) from reading the messages between two parties. Speaking at a MediaNama event Neeti Biyani, Senior Advisor for Policy and Advocacy at the Internet Society, said that encryption is a technology that, “helps keep a lot of people extremely safe, including children, the elderly, women, marginalized populations.”

In the same vein, the  Council of the European Union, in its “Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down rules to prevent and combat child sexual abuse” says that attempts to weaken or circumvent encryption could be, “abused by malicious third parties.”

Meta introduced its plans to expand end-to-end encryption to Messenger and Instagram direct messaging (DMs) in March 2019 . It said that it planned to build on the model employed by WhatsApp. It released a document detailing its approach to doing so in April 2022 (updated in September 2023) where it said that it intends to prevent harm at the source. “Key to prevention is placing security at the forefront of our designs through strong default privacy protections and investing in default e2ee to prevent malicious actors from targeting our services,” it argued. Meta said that this technology protects people from hacking and identity theft and enables secure communications for individuals who may be targeted by authoritarian or illiberal regimes or may be victims of abuse or domestic violence.

Meta explains that its machine learning tool looks through public-facing surfaces of Meta accounts like account information and photos uploaded to public spaces to detect suspicious activity and abuse, “before it reaches messaging.” It further mentioned that when e2ee is enabled, Meta would, “use a variety of tools, including artificial intelligence, subject to applicable law, to proactively detect accounts engaged in malicious patterns of behavior instead of scanning private messages.”

Article continues below ⬇ , you might also want to read:

“Investigations have shown that bad actors often reveal their intentions with obvious public signals,” Meta said. In the context of CSAM, it explained, that bad actors would typically show signals such as friending accounts with clear child-sexualizing content, using coded language in bios, searching for egregious terms, or joining questionable groups. Meta claims that it hires specialists with backgrounds in law enforcement and works with child safety experts and organizations to identify these actors, monitor their latest tactics, and disrupt their networks.

It said that it looks at 60 different signals (including blocking, reporting, content and metadata on Meta’s social media platforms, group names, group photos, and metadata we have from Messenger and Instagram DMs, including those where conversations are end-to-end encrypted) to find and label accounts associated with suspicious adults. Meta says that it automatically disables Facebook and Instagram accounts if they exhibit a number of signals it monitors for potentially suspicious behavior. To prevent bad actors from setting up new accounts, Meta says that it:

Meta claims that it not only restricts suspicious adults from accessing teenagers’ accounts but also prevents them from interacting with each other. It says that its research has found that when bad actors are blocked from connecting with or messaging vulnerable users, they will keep looking for new ways to offend which is why it is focused on limiting bad actors’ capabilities within the product experience. Meta listed the following steps it takes in curbing accounts held by bad actors from interacting with each other:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event