Argued by: Sh. C. S. Pasricha, Advocate for the appellants. Sh. Gaurav Bhardwaj, Advocate
for the respondent. PER JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.),
PRESIDENT. This appeal is directed against
the order dated 26.06.2012, rendered by the District Consumer Disputes
Redressal Forum-I, U.T., Chandigarh (hereinafter to be called as the District
Forum only), vide which it accepted the complaint of the complainant and
directed the Opposite Parties, as under: - 2. The facts, in brief, are that the
complainant is a vegetable seller. He was having a Savings Bank Account
No.33780100000302 in Opposite Party No.2 Bank. He was issued a Passbook as well
as ATM Card (Annexures C-1 and C-2) against his account by Opposite Party No.2.
On getting his Passbook updated on 22.11.2011, the complainant was shocked to
see that an amount of Rs.22,249/- had been been shown as withdrawn from his
account on 9.5.2011, without his knowledge. It was stated that when the matter
was brought to the knowledge of Opposite Party No.2, it informed that Online
Shopping was done, from his account in Bangalore. It was further stated that
the complainant being a poor and illiterate person, never used the
ATM-cum-Debit Card, for shopping. It was
further stated that the officials of Opposite Party No.2, assured the
complainant, that the said amount would be refunded to him, as there appeared
to be some discrepancy, in his account. It was further stated that the complainant
lodged a complaint with the Opposite Parties, regarding the said transaction,
whereupon he was supplied the Case History Summary. It was further stated that in the said
summary 9.5.2011, online transaction of Rs.22,249.00 was made through merchant WWW.INDIAPLAZA.IN/MERCADO
PVT LTD. in Bangalore. It was further stated that from the said Case Summary,
it was evident that some fraud had been committed, on account of lack of proper
security measures. It was further stated that the Opposite Parties instead of
reimbursing the amount aforesaid, which was fraudulently withdrawn from the account
of complainant, supplied him a hyper technical transaction details (Ann.C-4),
which were not understandable. It was further stated that it was for the
Opposite Parties, to make proper enquiry and put in place, stringent security
measures, but they failed to do so. It was further stated that on account of
the aforesaid acts of omission and commission, of the Opposite Parties, the
complainant suffered financial loss, mental agony and physical harassment. It
was further stated that the aforesaid acts of the Opposite Parties, amounted to
deficiency, in rendering service, and indulgence into unfair trade practice.
When the grievance of the complainant, was not redressed, left with no
alternative, a complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986
(hereinafter to be called as the Act only), directing the Opposite Parties to
pay a sum of Rs.22,249/- wrongly debited to his account; Rs.50,000/- as
compensation; and Rs.11,000/- as litigation expenses, was filed. 3. The Opposite Parties, in the written
version, admitted the factual matrix that the complainant was having Savings
Bank Account No.33780100000302 in their Bank. It was also admitted that he was
issued an ATM Card. It was stated that the complainant was informed by the Bank
officials that the said online shopping was done, from his account, in
Bangalore for a sum of Rs.22,249/-. It was further stated that no complaint of
any fraud, was made by the complainant. It was further stated that the
complainant had been asked to fill in the claim form, to lodge the Cyber Crime
Complaint, so that the matter could be taken up, at the appropriate forum, as
also, the claim could be lodged with the Insurance Company, as all matters
relating to fraud in Banking Transactions were covered under Insurance from the
India Assurance Company Ltd. It was
further stated that it was apparent that the complainant had allowed some third
person access to his ATM Card, which had been misused. It was further stated
that the Bank had made the payment in terms of Online Shopping carried out by
the complainant, and the amount had been debited to his account. It was denied
that there was any deficiency, in rendering service, on the part of the Opposite
Parties, or they indulged into unfair trade practice. The remaining averments,
were denied, being wrong. 4. The
Parties led evidence, in support of their case. 5. After
hearing the Counsel for the parties, and, on going through the evidence, and
record of the case, the District Forum, accepted the complaint, in the manner,
referred to, in the opening para of the instant order. 6. Feeling
aggrieved, the instant appeal, has been filed by the appellants/Opposite
Parties. 7. We have
heard the Counsel for the parties, and, have gone through the evidence and
record of the case, carefully. 8. Undisputedly, the complainant was
having Savings Bank Account No.33780100000302 in Opposite Party No.2 Bank.
There is also, no dispute, about the factum that the complainant was supplied
the Passbook as also the ATM-cum-Debit Card by Opposite Party No.2. It is
evident from Annexure C-2 i.e Passbook entries, that the complainant, though
claimed himself, as an illiterate vegetable vendor, had been using the
ATM-cum-Debit Card, for making cash transactions. Annexure B i.e. Booklet,
containing the terms and conditions of International Debit Card of the Opposite
Parties (Bank of Baroda) was allowed to be placed, on record, during the
pendency of appeal. It is evident, from this document, that the PIN issued to
the Cardholder for use with the Card, or any number chosen by the Cardholder as
a PIN should be known only to the Cardholder and was for his personal use and
was strictly confidential. A warning was given that a written record of the PIN
should not be kept, in any form, place or manner that may facilitate its user
by a third party. The PIN should not be disclosed to any third party, either to
staff of the Bank or to merchant establishments, under any circumstances or by
any means whether voluntarily or otherwise. It was further provided by the
terms and conditions, referred to above, that the Cardholders account would be
debited immediately with the amount of any withdrawal, transfer, valid charges,
and other transactions effected by the use of the Card. Another condition
provided in this Booklet, for the user of the Debit Card, was that the
Cardholder would be responsible for transactions, effected by the use of the
card, whether authorized by him (Cardholder) or not, and he shall indemnify the
Bank, against any loss or damage, caused by an unauthorized use of the Card or
related PIN. At the time of issuance of the ATM-cum-Debit Card, to the
complainant, he was supplied the terms and conditions referred to above. It may
be stated here that the ATM Card, could only be used, if the customer inputs
his personal four digit identification number, which is selected by him
(customer), and not by the Bank. However, as stated above, in the interest of
security, the customer was advised to retain his PIN Code, in his memory, so
that no one else is privy to his information The reverse of the ATM card has a
magnetic strip and white strip for signatures of the Cardholder. The magnetic
strip contains the Cardholders details. This card can be used to gain entry
into the ATM enclosure, by swiping it, in the access lodge. In other words,
unless a person, is in possession of the relevant ATM card, and knows the four
digit PIN code, the same (ATM card) cannot be used and operated. As a matter of
further precautions, in case the PIN code is entered wrongly, thrice, in
succession, the ATM will swallow the card itself, or cancel it permanently.
There is no averment, in the complaint, to the effect that the complainant,
lost his ATM card, at any point of time. There is not even a fleeting
reference, in the complaint, having been made by the complainant that somebody
had stolen his ATM card and misused the same. In the absence of such averment,
in the complaint, when the ATM card throughout remained in the exclusive
possession of the complainant, and he was in exclusive knowledge of the four
digit personal identification number of the said card, the question of misuse
of the same at Bangalore, by anybody else, did not at all arise. 9. It is evident from Annexure C-2,
statement of account submitted by the complainant himself, that even after the
disputed transaction of 09.05.2011, he also made transaction through ATM Card
by withdrawing a sum of Rs.7,000/- on 11.05.2011. It means that the complainant
was well aware, as to how the ATM Card was to be used. It was not the case of
the complainant that he never went to Bangalore. In case, the said card had
been misused by somebody, and the amount of Rs.22,249/- had been withdrawn from
the account of the complainant on 09.05.2011, the safer course for him was to,
immediately inform Opposite Party No.2, with a request to block his ATM Card,
but he did not do so. Subsequent transaction through ATM Card, in the account
of the complainant, clearly established that the transaction dated 09.005.2011
was made by him. It, therefore, could not be said that there was a fraudulent
transaction, from the account of the complainant, as the transaction could not
take place, without the use of the ATM Card, which was in the exclusive possession
of the complainant. 10. In view of the elaborate procedure,
having been evolved by the Opposite Parties, regarding the use of ATM Card,
referred to above, it was not at all possible, to do internet shopping online,
from the account of the complainant, through ATM Card, by any person other than
him. In State Bank of India Vs. K. K. Bhalla, Revision Petition No.3182 of
2008, decided on 07.04.2011, by the Honble National Consumer Disputes
Redressal Commission, New Delhi, similar principle of law, was laid down.
In these circumstances, there was neither any deficiency, in rendering service,
on the part of the Opposite Parties, nor did they indulge into unfair trade
practice. The District Forum was wrong in holding to the contrary. The findings
of the District Forum, to the contrary, being illegal and perverse, are liable
to be reversed. 11. The Opposite Parties, in their written
reply, took up a specific stand that on 09.05.2011, usage of ATM Card of the
complainant, was made for online transaction through merchant WWW.INDIAPLAZA.IN/MERCADO
PVT LTD. in Bangalore. This fact was duly supported by Sh. Sudarshan Kumar Garg, Branch Manager of
Opposite Party No.2, in his affidavit, which was submitted by way of evidence.
Annexure OP-3, is the letter received from the Incharge Debit Card Management
System CRM Department, Mumbai, by the Manager/Chief Manager, Bank of Baroda,
SCO No.72A-73A, Grain Market, Sector 26, Chandigarh (Opposite Party No.2),
which reads as under: - 12. From the afore extracted contents of
the letter (Annexure OP-3), it is evident that the transaction was processed on
complete secured mode, where cardholder participated and authorized the charge.
The transaction, therefore, could not be said to be fraudulent. 13. It is further evident from Para No.14
of the grounds of appeal, that the Bank also gave the IP Address of the machine
from which the transaction was carried out, which was 49.14.103.210 and, as
such, there was no default on the part of Bank of Baroda. Since the transaction
was made in a complete secured mode, it could not be said that proper security
measures had not been adopted by Opposite Party No.2 Bank. Investigation of the
matter, by the Cyber Cell, is a different thing. Here, we are only concerned
with the alleged deficiency, in rendering service, if any, committed by the
Opposite Parties. Since the transaction of online shopping, through ATM Card of
the complainant, was carried out in a complete secured mode, the Opposite
Parties, could not be blamed. 14. No other point, was urged, by the
Counsel for the parties. 15. In view
of the above discussion, it is held that the order passed by the District
Forum, being not based on the correct appreciation of evidence, and law, on the
point, suffers from illegality and perversity, warranting the interference of
this Commission, and is liable to be set aside. 16. For the
reasons recorded above, the appeal filed by the appellants/Opposite Parties, is
accepted, with no orders as to costs. The impugned order passed by the District
Forum, is set aside. 17. Certified
Copies of this order be sent to the parties, free of charge. 18. The file
be consigned to Record Room, after completion. Pronounced. 14th January, 2013. Sd/- [JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER (RETD.)] 

 

PRESIDENT 

 

Sd/- [NEENA SANDHU] 

 

MEMBER 

 Ad 

 

 

  

 STATE COMMISSION 

 

(First
Appeal No.250 of 2012) 

 

  

 

Argued by: Sh. C. S. Pasricha, Advocate for the appellants. Sh. Gaurav Bhardwaj, Advocate
for the respondent. Dated the 14th day of January 2013. ORDER 

 

  

 

 Vide our detailed
order of even date, recorded separately, this appeal filed by the appellants/Opposite
Parties, has been accepted with no orders as to costs. (NEENA SANDHU) 
 

MEMBER 
 
 
 

(JUSTICE SHAM SUNDER(RETD.)) 
 PRESIDENT 
 
 
  
 
 

 

  

 

Ad