The facts of the case are as follows:- It is claimed that out of a total extent of 3 acres 24 guntas,

he had sold certain extent and has retained 1 acre 10 guntas of the

said land, which is the subject matter of this petition. It transpires that the State Government had proposed to

acquire the aforesaid land under the provisions of the Karnataka

Urban Development Authority Act, 1987 (Hereinafter referred to

as the ' KUDA Act ' for brevity), for the benefit of the second

respondent - Mysore Urban Development Authority for the

purpose of forming a ring road and in this regard, had issued a

provisional notification under section 17 of the KUDA Act dated

30.1.1997. The petitioner had filed objections to the same contending

that no Scheme had been formulated as regards the formation of a

ring road and that the master plan prepared under the Karnataka 4 Town and Country Planning Act, 1961 (Hereinafter referred to as

the ' KTCP Act ', for brevity) indicated the area in which the

above land is situated as being in the residential zone. However,

the objections were not considered and a final notification dated

27.3.1999 was issued. Pursuant to the same, an award was also

passed awarding a compensation of Rs.1,12,000/- per acre and the

petitioner had received a sum of Rs.1,40,000/- as compensation.

The petitioner claims that such amount was received under

protest and on condition that if the land was not utilized for the

purpose for which it was ostensibly acquired, the same would be

handed over to the petitioner, subject to refund of the

compensation. It is the case of the petitioner that even after lapse of five

years, the land in question has not been utilized for the purpose of

formation of a ring road and according to the petitioner, the ring

road itself has been formed and it transpires that the same is away 5 from the property of the petitioner and that the land in question is

no loner necessary for the purpose of the said ring road. Therefore, it is contended that in terms of Section 27 of the

KUDA Act, since the land in question has not been utilized for the

ring road and even if there was a Scheme, in respect of such

formation of the ring road, the same lapses insofar as the land of

the petitioner is concerned and therefore, would have to be

redelivered to the petitioner, who is ready and willing to refund

the compensation amount received. It is in this background that the petitioner had made a

representation dated 3.8.2005, requesting the authority to restore

the land on the above ground. Respondent no.2 however has

declined to the demand made by the petitioner. It is the

petitioner's case that the land cannot be utilized for any proposed

purpose of the respondents and therefore the present petition. It is further contended that the petitioner was under the

bona fide impression that the land in question would, in fact, be

utilized for formation of the ring road. The formation of the ring 6 road itself was completed only during the year 2010. Neither was

the land of the petitioner utilized for the formation of the ring road

nor is it necessary to be utilized for peripheral or incidental

purposes. It is only after this dawned on the petitioner after

completion of the formation of the ring road, that the petitioner

has been provoked to file the present writ petition. Therefore, it is contended that there is a seeming delay in

approaching this court for that reason and that there is no delay on

the part of the petitioner in seeking to claim a legitimate right over

his property. It is also pointed out that any Scheme formulated by

the authority would become redundant only after the expiry of five

years from the date of passing of the award. Hence, it is one more

ground, on which it can be said that there is no delay in the

petitioner approaching this court. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner while reiterating

the above circumstances, would submit that the power of eminent

domain exercised in the present case on hand has not effectuated 7 the purpose declared in the acquisition proceedings. Therefore,

the power exercised is a colourable exercise of power and could

even be termed as fraud on power and is vitiated on that count. It is the case of the petitioner that the land cannot be utilized

for any other purpose when once the declared purpose has become

redundant. It is further contended that it is practically not possible

for the respondent to utilize the land for any other public purpose

as the land of the petitioner is surrounded by private layouts that

have been formed and therefore, it is not practically possible to

include the petitioner's land in any other project for a purported

public purpose and the learned Counsel seeks to place reliance

on the following authorities in support of his case: 4. The respondents have entered appearance and have

contested the petition. It is stated that as admitted by the petitioner himself, the

land in question is subject matter of acquisition proceedings

initiated under a preliminary notification dated 28.2.1998. As the

project for formation of the outer ring road was taken up with the

assistance of M/s Asian Development Bank (Hereinafter referred

to as the 'ADB', for brevity), the approval of the Scheme for the

formation was by the State Level Co-ordination Committee at the

instance of the State Government, in that, the State Government,

by its order dated 30.1.1997, had accorded administrative 9 sanction under Section 15B of the KUDA Act, pursuant to which,

the preliminary notification was published. It was further

instructed by the State Government under a Circular, that insofar

as the projects, which are taken up with the assistance of the

ADB, the approval of the State Government contemplated under Section 18(3) of the KUDA Act was dispensed with. It is for this

reason that prior sanction of the project was dispensed with. This

is not an irregularity or a departure from the legal requirement at

the instance of the authority. Since the State Government itself

has indicated that no such prior sanction was essential, it would no

longer be a ground of challenge and the same would not in any

manner invalidate the acquisition proceedings. In any event, the

acquisition proceedings having been completed and the petitioner

also having received a substantial amount of compensation

including the statutory benefits, in a total sum of Rs.2,28,442/-

and possession of the land having been taken and a notification

under Section 16(2) of the LA Act also having been issued, the

land vests with the State free from all encumbrances and therefore, 10 the petitioner's claim that the Scheme, under which the land has

been acquired, would lapse if there was no development on the

said land in terms of the project envisaged, would not in any

manner benefit the petitioner in seeking restoration of the land. The petitioner seeking to invoke Section 27 of the KUDA

Act, it would be necessary for the petitioner to furnish all

necessary details regarding the acquisition of lands for a

particular Scheme. It would be incumbent on the petitioner to

establish that there has been dereliction of statutory duties on the

part of the authority. Merely because the land was not used for

the purpose for which it was acquired, it could not be said that the

entire Scheme would lapse not could it be said that the Scheme

would lapse in respect of particular pockets of land, such as that

of the petitioner. Even according to the petitioner, the acquisition was for the

purpose of formation of a ring road and therefore the petitioner's

primary contention that the Scheme had lapsed and therefore the 11 land should revert to the petitioner, is not a ground that can be

raised. It is further contended that the outer ring road was formed

in the year 2002 and it was thrown open for public use in that year

itself. It is also pointed out that even if the land of the petitioner

has not been utilized for the formation of the ring road, the land

however, has vested in the State Government and as such, the

acquisition would not lapse. Hence, the contention of the

petitioner that the acquisition of the petitioner's land was with a

mala fide intention with the fore-knowledge that it would not be

utilized for the ring road, is a mischievous and a false allegation.

However, the land having been acquired by the State

Government, the question of restoration of the land to the

erstwhile land owners, even if they had been utilized for a

particular project, is not contemplated in law. The acquisition

cannot be faulted as being vitiated by fraud or otherwise as sought

to be contended by the petitioner. That insofar as the original alignment of the ring road,

which was to pass through the land in Survey No.34, it was

latently realized that there was a railway over-bridge across the

ring road and therefore, in order to facilitate the construction of

the ring road below the railway over-bridge, there was a

realignment, where the ring road was constructed utilizing the

land in Survey No.39, which land incidentally had been acquired

for the purpose of formation of a housing layout, namely,

Nachanahalli III Stage Layout. Further, the width of the ring road as envisaged in the year

2002 was only 10 metres. With passage of time, however, it was

felt necessary to extend the width to 45 metres and this may entail

the use of the land, which was otherwise kept unused in the

formation of the ring road. In any event, the present petition filed in the year 2010 is

hopelessly barred by delay and laches and would have to be

rejected on that ground alone. The petitioner having received the compensation and

possession of the land having been taken, the petitioner cannot be

permitted to challenge the acquisition proceedings on the basis of

an alleged right reserved for himself. The law does not

contemplate any such situation. The learned Counsel places reliance on the following

authorities:- 5. In the above circumstances, whether in the admitted

circumstances, the land in question had been acquired and

possession had been taken of the same and that it had vested in

the State, which in turn, was handed over to respondent no.2 - 14 authority and whether the same ought to be redelivered to the

original owner if the land was ultimately not used for the purpose

for which it was required, is the point for consideration in this

petition. It is also not in dispute that the petitioner has even received

the compensation in respect of the acquired land though it is

stated that such receipt was under protest. And that since the land

in question has not been utilized even after a lapse of five years,

either for the project for which it was acquired or for any other

public purpose, the petitioner seeking to reclaim the land is the

dispute. Insofar as the case-law that is relied upon by the petitioner

in support of his case is concerned, in the case of State of Punjab

vs. Gurdial Singh , supra, the facts would indicate that a parcel of

land was selected for the purpose of building a mandi and

notifications under Sections 4 and 6 of the LA Act were issued,

but the proceedings were denotified within one year and

notifications were issued to acquire the land of the respondents. 15 Aggrieved by the same, the respondents had challenged the

acquisition proceedings alleging mala fides on the ground that

fresh notifications were issued as a result of influence wielded by

a minister, who was one of the respondents and who was related

to the owner of the land, which was initially sought to be acquired.

The High Court had quashed the notifications on the ground of

mala fides. After some years, the State Government sought to

acquire the land by invoking the emergency provisions under Section 17 of the Act. The High Court had struck down the

notifications for the second time and it was in that background

that the State was before the apex court. The apex court, while

addressing the facts of the case, agreed with the factual findings

by the High Court and dismissed the Special Leave Petition. The said decision would not in any manner advance the

case of the petitioners. In the case of Raja Ram Jaiswal , supra, the facts of the case

were that the Hindi Sahitya Sammelan had obtained a large 16 extent of land from the Municipal Board for construction of a

building, but it was left vacant and unutilized. In the same

vicinity was the land of the respondent in that case , who had, with

a view to construct an air-conditioned Cinema Hall, sought a

certificate of approval from the Deputy Commissioner under the

relevant rules. The Sammelan opposed to the proposal on the

ground that the establishment of a Cinema Hall in the vicinity

would be destructive of cultural and academic environment. The

Deputy Commissioner had overruled the objection and granted the

certificate. The Sammelan then made an application to the

Government for acquiring the respondent's land on the ground

that it was needed for the purpose of extension of its premises and

on the basis of the said representation, a notification was issued

under Section 4 (1) of the LA Act that the land was needed for a

public purpose. There was an error committed in referring to the

identity of the property in the notification. This was sought to be

corrected by way of a Corrigendum. The Corrigendum was not

given publicity as it ought to have been. This was indeed the 17 point of dispute in the proceedings, namely, whether the

requirement under the second part of Section 4(1) regarding

giving public notice of the substance of the notification in the

locality is mandatory and its non-compliance is fatal to the

acquisition proceedings. Incidentally, it was also considered

whether the acquisition was vitiated by legal mala fides. The apex court answered both the questions in the

affirmative. Therefore, from the facts of that case, it cannot be

said that it would have a bearing on the present case on hand. In Royal Orchid Hotels Limited , supra, the question was

whether the land acquired by the State Government at the instance

of the State Tourism Development Corporation, a State

Government undertaking, for the specified purpose of golf-cum-

hotel resort could be transferred by the Corporation to a private

individual and corporate entities. It was concluded that the

Corporation did not have jurisdiction to transfer the land acquired

for a public purpose to companies and thereby allow them to 18 bypass the provisions of Part-VII of the Act and that

diversification of purpose for which the land was acquired under Section 4(1) read with Section 6 would amount to fraud on the

power of eminent domain. This decision is sought to be relied upon by the learned

counsel for the petitioner to contend that if the land in question in

the present case on hand could not be used for one public purpose,

the second respondent - authority claiming that it intends to use it

for some other purpose is impermissible, as was held in the above

case by the apex court. Whether this is tenable shall be presently

considered. In Shah Hyder Beig and others , supra, the contention was

that the power to acquire the land of the petitioner was exercised

for extraneous and irrelevant purposes and therefore, it was a

colourable exercise of power vitiated by malice. This was

contended in the following background:-