1) The prosecution case in brief is that during the 

 intervening night of 12th and 13th February, 2008 a technical 

 inspection was conducted at the premises house No.50­51, (First 

 Floor and Second Floor), Gali Transformer Wali Village 

 Rampura, Delhi with the assistance of police by the officials of 

 the NDPL. NDPL team was accompanied by photographer Devi 

 Sahay for taking photographs at the time of raid/inspection 

 wherein the direct theft of electricity was being committed. The 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 1 / 13
 inspection revealed that direct theft of electricity was being 

 committed by illegal tapping from incoming service cable of both 

 the meters before the meter inside the premises which was 

 further connected to internal wiring of premises. The connected 

 load was found 23.10 KW. The stolen electricity was being used 

 for industrial purpose. At the time of inspection one worker 

 Puttan S/o Dukhharan (worker) was found present who has 

 signed the inspection report. During inspection it was found that 

 Bitte (house owner) and Binu were found consuming the stolen 

 electricity for industrial purpose. Mr. Subrata Das, Senior 

 Manager has made a complaint to the local police on 15/02/08 

 against the accused. On the basis of said complaint an FIR was 

 registered u/s 135 of the Electricity Act, 2003. 2) PW2 HC Narender Singh was entrusted with the 

 investigation of the case on 18/02/2008 who went to the spot and 

 recorded statement of officials; prepared the site plan Ex. 

 PW2/A. On 28/02/2008, Shri Sandeep Kumar, Assistant 

 Manager Enforcement NDPL came to the police station with the 

 case property i.e two gunny bags duly sealed with the seal of 

 NDPL CEG containing cables, copper wires and electricity meter 

 and same were seized vide memo Ex. PW2/B. Sh. Sandeep 

 Kumar also handed over the seizure memo Ex. PW1/2 and 

 inspection report Ex. PW1/1. HC Narender Singh, investigating 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 2 / 13
 officer also collected the photographs from the photographer 

 marked as mark­A1 to mark­A36. He recorded statement of other 

 necessary witnesses. On 10/09/2008 he arrested accused Naresh 

 Kumar @ Bitte vide memo Ex. PW2/C and produced him before 

 the court where he was remanded to JC. During investigation 

 accused failed to give any information to the investigating officer 

 about the co­accused his tenant and has failed to prove any 

 document of tenancy of the premises. 3) After completion of investigation chargesheet was filed. 

 My Ld Predecessor took the cognizance of the offence on 

 18/05/2009 and summoned the accused. 4) On 16/08/2011 after hearing Ld Addl. PP for the State 

 and Ld counsel for accused, a charge for the offence u/s 135 of 

 the Electricity Act, 2003 was framed against the accused to 

 which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5) In support of its case prosecution has examined in total 

 9 witnesses. 6) PW1 Vipin Goel is the member of raiding party, PW3 

 S.K. Dass has lodged the complaint, PW4 Yogender Kumar 

 Sharma is another member of raiding party, PW5 Shri S.K. Kohli 

 is also one of the member of raiding party, PW8 Ravi is the 

 public witness who did not support the prosecution case and was 

 declared hostile and PW9 Devi Sahay is the photographer.

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 3 / 13 7) The material witnesses PW1 and other members of 

 raiding party mentioned above has supported the prosecution 

 case and corroborated version of each other stating that 

 inspection was carried out in the (first floor and second floor) of 

 the premises bearing no. 50/51 Gali Transformer Wali Gali, 

 Rampura, Delhi under the supervision of Shri S.K. Dass Senior 

 manager. At the time of inspection a load of 23.10 KW was found 

 connected for industrial purpose by direct theft through illegal 

 tapping from incoming service of both meters before the meters 

 inside the premises. The inspection report is proved as Ex. 

 PW1/1, material seizure memo as Ex. PW1/2. The case property 

 i.e three numbers of energy meters are proved as Ex. P1 to Ex. 

 P3, three numbers of service cables having approximate length of 

 11 meters, 9 meters and 6 meters has been proved as Ex. P4 to 

 Ex. P6. A yellow colour wire approximate length of 40 meters in 

 two pieces proved as Ex. P7 and Ex. P8. The copper wire having 

 approximate length of 23 meters in two pieces are proved as 

 Ex.P9 and Ex. P10. 8) Nothing has come out in the cross­examination of 

 material witnesses to assail their deposition on all material points 

 with regard to the direct theft of electricity in the premises in 

 question conducted at the time of inspection.

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 4 / 13 9) Accused was examined u/s 313 CrPC in which he has 

 denied the allegations stating that he was innocent and falsely 

 implicated in this case; user of the electricity has been shown as 

 one Binu and he has not given any disclosure statement. He 

 further stated that he has no concern with the factory running in 

 the premises in question and did not desire to lead evidence in 

 defence. 10) I have heard Ld. Counsel Shri Jai Ram Garg for 

 accused and Shri A.K. Shrivastava, Ld. Addl. P.P for State. It is 

 argued on behalf of the accused that accused has no concern with 

 the alleged theft as he was never in possession and occupation of 

 the premises on the alleged date of inspection. It is further 

 argued that accused was not found present on the spot and some 

 other person namely Binu was allegedly found present on the 

 spot. Shri Binu is admittedly shown by the NDPL as user of the 

 premises. It is further argued that Shri Binu was his tenant and 

 as such he has never been arrested nor made an accused in this 

 case and he has been wrongly and falsely implicated in this case. 

 Lastly it was argued that accused was never indulged in running 

 the factory in the premises in question and there is no evidence in 

 that regard led by the complainant. It is, therefore, argued that 

 accused is innocent and has been falsely implicated and is liable 

 to be acquitted. FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 5 / 13 11) Ld. Addl. P.P on other hand has submitted that the case 

 of the prosecution stands proved beyond reasonable doubt 

 because it is proved by the witnesses examined by the prosecution 

 that accused was owner and occupant of the premises in question 

 where he was running a factory for manufacturing of plastic 

 goods through his persons, one of whom was found present as 

 Binu. It is further argued on behalf of Ld. Addl. P.P that there is 

 no evidence led by the accused in support of his contention that 

 Binu was his tenant and he was the only person responsible for 

 alleged theft, if any, ever found committed in the premises. Ld. 

 Addl. P.P has referred the order dated 22.10.2008 of Hon'ble 

 High Court on the bail application No.1983 of 2008 wherein it 

 was contended on behalf of the accused that petitioner is an 

 innocent person and has been falsely implicated in the case of 

 electricity theft. It is submitted that petitioner had let out the 

 premises in question and the same was used by tenant Shri 

 Binu after replacement of meter on 8th January, 2008 and 

 petitioner is not connected in any way with the alleged offence. 

 It is, therefore, argued that accused being owner and in 

 occupation of the premises was responsible for the direct theft of 

 electricity and case of the prosecution stands proved beyond 

 reasonable doubt and accused is liable to be convicted.

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 6 / 13 12) I have considered the rival submissions and carefully 

 examined the evidence on record. In order to establish its case 

 against the accused prosecution/complainant is required to 

 establish following facts: Thus, it stands established that the theft of electricity was found 

being committed in the premises in question i.e. 50,51 (first floor 

and second floor) Village Rampura, Gali Transformer Wali, Delhi. 

(ii How And In What Manner The Theft Of Electricity Was
 Being Committed

 Regarding the said fact that as to how the theft of electricity 

was being committed, PW1 Shri Vipin Goyal and other witnesses 

have deposed that direct theft was being committed by illegally 

tapping from incoming service of both meters before the meters 

inside the premises. It is further deposed that illegal material which 

was being used for direct theft was removed and seized from the 

inspected premises vide memo Ex.PW2/B and the said memo has 

been signed by Shri Puttan who was worker at the site in question 

and has been shown in the photograph. It is further deposed that 

the case property i.e. three numbers of energy meters were proved 

Ex.P1 to Ex.P3, three numbers of service cables having 

approximate length of 11 meters, 9 meters and 6 meters. The 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 8 / 13
 service cables are Ex.P4 to P6. A yellow colour approximate length 

of 40 meters in two pieces were proved as Ex.P7 and P8. The 

copper wire having approximate length of 23 meters in two pieces 

were proved as Ex.P9 and P10. These wires were seized which 

were found being used for direct theft of electricity at the inspected 

premises of the accused for industrial purpose. Nothing is suggested 

to the witness in the cross examination about the seizure of the 

illegal material used for direct theft of electricity. This fact also 

stands established beyond reasonable doubt that the illegal theft was 

being committed through illegal tapping from incoming service of 

both meters before the meters inside the premises. (iii) By Whom The Theft Of Electricity Was Being Committed

 According to the prosecution case at the time of inspection 

one worker namely Puttan son of Dukh Haran was found present 

and joined the raid who told the inspecting team that it was one 

Binu who was user of the premises and landlord was accused 

Naresh @ Bitte. It is admitted case of the accused that he was the 

owner and in possession of the premises in question but user of the 

electricity at the time of raid was Binu who was his tenant. 

According to the investigation carried out by police accused has 

failed to give any particular of said Binu to whom he has been 

claiming his tenant. It is for this reason the investigating officer has 

concluded that it was the accused who was responsible for theft of 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 9 / 13
 electricity and workers found present at the spot were working on 

his behalf. In his cross examination PW5 Shri Sandeep Kumar 

Kohli has clarified that in the seizure memo it is clearly mentioned 

that accused Naresh and Binu both were users/beneficiaries of the 

electricity. The accused has made a statement regarding documents 

filed by his mother at the time of obtaining electricity connection in 

the premises and the said documents were placed on record and 

were proved as Ex.PX1 running into 14 pages. It has come on 

record in evidence that there are electricity meters in the premises 

which were installed in the name of the mother of the accused. The 

accused while seeking bail has claimed that premises was being 

used by his tenant Binu. He has failed to place on record any 

material to show that the premises in question was let out to the said 

tenant and he has no concern with the direct electricity. As per Section 103 of Indian Evidence Act, 1972: Once this onus was discharged, the onus was on 
 the appellant to show that he was not indulging 
 into abstraction of electricity. The appellant 
 failed to discharge this onus and the trial court 
 rightly convicted the appellant." FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 11 / 13 15. The prosecution has succeeded in discharging its onus of 

proving the fact that direct theft of electricity was being committed 

through illegal tapping from incoming service of both meters before 

the meters inside the premises. The deposition of all the witnesses 

in that regard is consistent and reliable and there is nothing in their 

cross examination which could assail the prosecution case. 16. PW2 HC Narender Singh who has investigated the case in 

his cross examination has stated that according to the investigation 

carried out by him Binu and Naresh (accused) both were users of 

electricity in the premises. He further deposed that he had collected 

the documents i.e. electricity bill in the name of Naresh (accused) 

from Keshav Puram office of NDPL and proved the same as 

Ex.PW2/DA. He has also proved the protocol of meter installation 

in the name of accused Naresh Ex.PW2/DB. He has also placed on 

record the documents collected from the office of NDPL which are 

in the name of Naresh Kumar as well as his mother Phoolwati and 

proved the same C1 to C19 which were later on admitted by the 

accused as PX1 collectively running into 14 pages. 17. He further deposed that the said documents Ex.PW2/DA 

to Ex.PW2/DC were submitted by the accused in the office of 

NDPL for installation of meter. He further deposed in the cross 

examination that during investigation accused Naresh owner of the 

premises disclosed that all the persons were his workers only and he 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 12 / 13
 was running a factory for making the plastic toys. It was further 

disclosed by the Investigating Officer that accused told him that he 

was not aware of whereabouts of Binu and he had started the 

factory only about ten days ago. 18. Since the accused has claimed that Binu was running the 

factory in his premises as tenant, the onus of proving this fact was 

on accused. He has miserably failed to discharge the said onus. The 

prosecution has thus, established that the accused was owner and in 

possession of the premises in question where factory was being run 

by committing direct theft of electricity for industrial purpose. 19. From the above discussion, I am of the considered opinion 

that the prosecution has succeeded in proving all the three 

facts/necessary ingredients of proving the offence u/s 135 of Indian 

Electricity Act. It thus, stands proved beyond reasonable doubt that 

it was accused Naresh @ Bitte who was found committing direct 

theft of electricity in the premises i.e. house No.50­51, (First Floor 

and Second Floor), Gali Transformer Wali Village Rampura, Delhi. 

I, therefore, hold the accused guilty and convict him for the offence 

under Section 135 of Indian Electricity Act, 2003. IN THE COURT OF SHRI RAJ KUMAR CHAUHAN, ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE, ROHINI COURTS, DELHI. FIR NO.118/06 State ....... Vs. .......... 1. Rajesh Kumar 2. Surjit 
 Both sons of Randhir Singh
 Both R/o H.No.106, Village Nithari
 Post Office Sultan Puri, Delhi. ORDERS ON SENTENCE
30/07/2013
Present: Ld. Addl. P.P for State 
 Shri S.C. Ahuja, AR of the complainant company with
 counsel Shri K.B. Chaudhary and Ms. Shiwani Sharma
 AM of the company. Both the convicts are present with counsel Shri D.K. 
 Sharma, Advocate 1. I have heard Ld. Counsel for both the convicts who has 

submitted that a lenient view be taken against them as they are not 

previously involved in any other offence and are not involved in 

other subsequent offence of theft of electricity. It is further 

submitted that they have roots in the society and earning their 

livelihood by doing agriculture work. 2. Ld. Addl. P.P has submitted that since the convicts were 

involved in direct theft of electricity for industrial purposes at large 

scale, therefore, maximum punishment be awarded to them. 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 14 / 13 3. I have considered the rival submissions. In the given facts and 

circumstances when the convicts were involved in huge theft of 

electricity i.e. 102 KW for industrial purposes, they do not deserve 

leniency. Accordingly both the accused are sentenced to undergo 

rigorous imprisonment for a period of three years for the offence 

punishable u/s 135 of Indian Electricity Act, 2003. 4. Ld. Addl. P.P for State as well as Ld. Counsel for complainant 

company prayed for determining the civil liability under Section 

154(5) of the Electricity Act, 2003 on account of loss due to the act 

of the convicts. Therefore, I proceed to determine the civil liability 

of the convicts under Section 154(5) of the Act. The civil liability 

against the consumer or a person shall be determined in terms of 

money for theft of energy under Section 154(5) of the Act. 

However, as prescribed under Section 154(5) of the Act, the same 

cannot be less than an amount equivalent to two times of the tariff 

rate applicable for a period of 12 months preceding the date of 

detection of theft of energy or the exact period of theft if 

determined, whichever is less. 5. The bill Ex.CW1/A dated 28.07.2006 is for an amount of Rs.

77,64,072/­. The authenticity of the said bill could not be assailed. 

The said bill has been raised for the period of 25.01.2006 to 

27.07.2006 i.e. for a period of six months. The same has been 

issued on the basis of 5 times as prescribed under Regulation 25 (v) FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 15 / 13
 of the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (Performance 

Standards - Metering & Billing) Regulations, 2002. Thus, keeping 

in view all the facts and circumstances, I am of the view that the 

civil liability shall be determined on 12 x 2 basis i.e. for a period of 

12 months and at two times of the tariff rate applicable. The bill of 

Rs.77,64,072 has been raised for a period of 30 months. The bill for 

one month comes to Rs.2,58,802.40P. The total civil liability on the 

basis of 12 x 2 comes i.e. for 24 months comes to Rs.62,11,258/­. 

Therefore, I determine the civil liability as Rs.62,11,258/­, against 

both the convicts to be paid to the complainant company i.e. 

TPDDL. Both the convicts are jointly and severally liable for the 

payment of the aforesaid amount for the loss caused to the 

complainant company i.e. TPDDL. 6. Let a copy of the judgment and the order on sentence be 

given to both the convicts free of cost. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN 
COURT TODAY ON 30.07.2013
 (RAJ KUMAR CHAUHAN)
 ASJ (ELECTRICITY)
 (NORTH­ WEST DISTRICT)
 ROHINI COURT:DELHI

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 16 / 13
 IN THE COURT OF SHRI RAJ KUMAR CHAUHAN, ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE, (ELECTRICITY), NORTH WEST, 
 ROHINI COURTS, DELHI. FIR NO.33/08 PS Keshav Puram
U/s 135 of Electricity Act . State ....... Vs. .......... Naresh Kumar @ Bitte
 Son of Shri Mahender Singh
 R/o H.No.72, Sainiwali Gali,
 Rampura, Delhi. ORDERS ON SENTENCE
27/09/2013
Present: Ld. Addl. P.P for State 
 Shri S.C. Ahuja, AR of the complainant company with
 counsel Shri K.B. Chaudhary and Ms. Shiwani Sharma
 AM of the company. Convict is present with counsel Shri Jai Ram Garg,
 Advocate 1. I have heard Ld. Counsel for the convict who has submitted 

that a lenient view be taken against him as he is not previously 

involved in any other offence and is not involved in other 

subsequent offence of theft of electricity. It is further submitted 

that he has roots in the society and earning his livelihood by selling 

milk. 2. Ld. Addl. P.P has submitted that since the convict was 

involved in direct theft of electricity for industrial purposes at large 

scale, therefore, maximum punishment be awarded to them. 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 17 / 13 3. I have considered the rival submissions. In the given facts and 

circumstances when the convict was involved in huge theft of 

electricity i.e. 23.10 KW for industrial purposes, he does not 

deserve leniency. Accordingly accused is sentenced to undergo 

rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year for the offence 

punishable u/s 135 of Indian Electricity Act, 2003. 4. Ld. Addl. P.P for State as well as Ld. Counsel for complainant 

company prayed for determining the civil liability under Section 

154(5) of the Electricity Act, 2003 on account of loss due to the act 

of the convicts. Therefore, I proceed to determine the civil liability 

of the convict under Section 154(5) of the Act. The civil liability 

against the consumer or a person shall be determined in terms of 

money for theft of energy under Section 154(5) of the Act. 

However, as prescribed under Section 154(5) of the Act, the same 

cannot be less than an amount equivalent to two times of the tariff 

rate applicable for a period of 12 months preceding the date of 

detection of theft of energy or the exact period of theft if 

determined, whichever is less. 5. The bill Ex.CW1/A dated 03.04.2008 is for an amount of Rs.

16,58,064/­. The authenticity of the said bill could not be assailed. 

The said bill has been raised for the period of 13.02.2007 to 

14.02.2008 i.e. for a period of twelve months. The same has been 

issued on the basis of 12 x 2 basis as prescribed under Regulation 

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 18 / 13
 25 (v) of the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission 

(Performance Standards - Metering & Billing) Regulations, 2002. 

Thus, keeping in view all the facts and circumstances, I am of the 

view that the civil liability shall be determined on 12 x 2 basis i.e. 

for a period of 12 months and at two times of the tariff rate 

applicable. The bill of Rs.16,58,064/­ has been raised for a period 

of 24 months. The bill for one m onth comes to Rs.1,38,172/­. The 

total civil liability on the basis of 12 x 2 comes i.e. for 24 months 

comes to Rs.16,58,064/­. Therefore, I determine the civil liability as 

Rs.16,58,000/­ against the convict to be paid to the complainant 

company i.e. TPDDL. The convict is liable for the payment of the 

aforesaid amount for the loss caused to the complainant company 

i.e. TPDDL. 6. The convict has remained in judicial custody for a period of 

one month and fourteen days. The benefit of Section 428 CrPC be 

extended to him. 7. Let a copy of the judgment and the order on sentence be 

given to the convict free of cost. ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN 
COURT TODAY ON 27.09.2013
 (RAJ KUMAR CHAUHAN)
 ASJ (ELECTRICITY)
 (NORTH­ WEST DISTRICT)
 ROHINI COURT:DELHI

FIR no.33/08 State Vs Naresh Kumar @ Bitte Page no. 19 / 13