The Central government on Thursday asked the Supreme Court (SC) to transfer three petitions challenging the Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act, 2025, from different High Courts (HCs) to the apex court, according to a Bar and Bench report .

The Act, which bans online games played for money and treats both games of skill and chance alike, received Presidential assent on August 22. The Lok Sabha introduced the bill on August 20, and both Houses passed it by August 21.

The government told the SC that petitions against the Act are pending before the Delhi, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh HCs. It said , “Due to multiple litigations pending before various HCs involving same or substantially similar questions of law and challenging the vires of the Act, it is imperative that these are transferred to SC or to any HC to avoid divergence of opinions or multiplicity of proceedings.”

A bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) BR Gavai heard the plea, and agreed to list the case next week – subsequently directing it to Justice Pardiwala’s bench. Notably, Justice Pardiwala’s bench had earlier heard challenges related to the 28% GST on online gaming.

Soon after the Act was passed, three companies approached different High Courts . On August 28, Head Digital Works filed a petition in the Karnataka HC. On the same day, Bagheera Carrom moved the Delhi HC. And a day later, Clubboom 11 Sports and Entertainment approached the Madhya Pradesh HC.

On September 2, the Madhya Pradesh HC asked the Union government to respond to the plea before it. And last week, the Karnataka HC also sought the Centre’s response. Notably, both courts declined to stay the notification of the Act. And the Delhi HC, too, took a similar stance.

Along with the transfer plea, the government has requested an interim stay on proceedings before the HCs. It argued that multiple litigations on the same law could result in conflicting rulings.

The Centre has also said that the case raises questions of constitutional importance, including potential violations of Articles 14 (equality before law) and 19 (freedom of speech and expression), and the balance of power between the Centre and States. According to the government, only a consolidated hearing before the SC can ensure uniformity and speedy resolution.

And if the SC does permit the transfer of these cases, it won’t be unprecedented. For context, in 2024, the apex court took up 27 writ petitions pending across nine state HCs challenging the 28% GST on online real-money gaming.

The Promotion and Regulation of Online Gaming Act , 2025, provides a legal framework for the gaming sector but imposes a complete ban on real-money games. It defines these as any digital game where users stake money or items of value for monetary returns—covering both games of skill and chance, but excluding e-sports. The law also bars advertisements, endorsements, and payment facilitation through banks and financial institutions for such platforms.

Violations attract heavy penalties, including up to three years’ imprisonment or fines up to Rs 1 crore, with harsher punishments for repeat offenders.

While the government cites addiction, financial ruin, and national security risks as reasons for the ban, industry bodies warn it could cripple a sector valued at over Rs 2 lakh crore, cost 2,00,000 jobs, and push Indian players to unregulated offshore platforms. Several gaming firms, including Games24x7, MPL, and Baazi Games, have already begun layoffs .

Adding to the industry’s concerns, the 56th Meeting of the GST Council recently recommended increasing the effective tax rate on online money games to 40%. The change applies to specified actionable claims, including betting, casinos, gambling, horse racing, and lottery.

It also extends to entry charges for casinos, race clubs, and sporting events such as the IPL. This tax hike, coming barely a month after the government notified the Online Gaming Act, has further compounded the uncertainty for this sector.

The legal disputes follow a rapid sequence of events in August, when India’s Parliament introduced and passed the law within two days.

Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Ashwini Vaishnaw justified the move by saying “In certain cases, these platforms have been linked to illegal activities including money-laundering, financial fraud, the financing of terrorism, and use as messaging platform for terrorist and terrorist organisations, thereby affecting the security and sovereignty of the State.”

And the Centre has stood its ground with respect to this law. On August 23, MeitY secretary S. Krishnan told the Mint that the government had “followed all constitutional requirements to frame the law and is ready for any legal challenges mounted against it.” Once fully notified, MeitY will set up an authority to promote e-sports and casual games that do not involve money, and enforce the law on the ground.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event