SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: 2019 countdown-A look at who will be leading the opposition charge in 2019 against NDA. Part 1- Rahul Gandhi
DATE: 2017-09-22
SCORE: 25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/71resh/2019_countdowna_look_at_who_will_be_leading_the/

--- POST TEXT ---

1)***Rahul Gandhi***

The successor to the throne of congress's biggest office and future Pm if Congress wins again , Rahul Gandhi will be at the centre stage in 2019 leading the charge against Modi and NDA in 2019

Advantages:

1)Gandhi name still carries a lot of political weight and capital in rural india and is a easy vote puller in rural areas

2)Son of Sonia Gandhi who has proven herself quite expert at holding a tight leash over the part and keeping the lower rung leaders in control ,thus ensuring that the future successor dose not have any problems as he gradually inherits more power in the grand old party.

3)Extremely proficient in English and more favored/tolerable to intellectual sections of Indian society .

4)Is often quite proficient in doing witty political attacks that put the government on back foot. Case in point: His "suit-buit" ki sarkar attack that put the government on backfoot and go a little easy on hard market reforms

5) No scam ,crimes connected directly to him and has a relatively clean record 

Disadvantages:

1) Completely politically inept with zero administrative experience which will be a massive question mark against any decision to elevate him to PM post over 1.2 billion Indians

2)Lighting rod for all discontent against dynasty politics especially Gandhi in India. Just as how Gandhi name is a vote puller in rural areas ,similarly it is a vote repulser in urban and semi urban areas. 

3) Publicly perceived as little less intelligent , clueless and happy go lucky guy who seems to have been forced into something that he seems to not be interested in. A laughing stock within the urban area and increasingly in rural areas due to sustained character assassination by opposition parties since upa 2 .

4) Very bad in regional Indian languages like Hindi , marathi , or any south indian languages . Speeches in indian languages are often goofed up causing the voters to feel disconnected and perceive the speeches as artificial and fake. Most of his best political statements or comebacks have been in English which is not understood by a majority of Indias. 

5) No successful election /political campaign in any election to his credit yet.

6)Inability to translate ideas into actions . While Mr Gandhi often voices his support for various new ideas, after a brief period of time they are are no longer discussed again or any actions taken.