Google and X (formerly Twitter) have not submitted their application for a license to operate in Malaysia under the country’s newly implemented licensing order for social media platforms.  As per Malaysia’s regulatory framework for social media and Internet messaging service providers, all platforms with over eight million users have to apply for a license to operate in the country. The country’s communication regulator— The Malaysia Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC)— says that this will ensure that the government can take steps to address online harms such as scams, cyberbullying, and sexual grooming of minors.

Finalised in July 2024, the licensing framework came into effect on January 1, 2025. MCMC says that X has informed it has not yet reached the eight million user base threshold in Malaysia. “Currently, MCMC is actively reviewing the validity of the number of users and will continue engagement sessions to assess X’s position,” the commission stated. On the other hand, Google (which operates YouTube) has raised questions about whether its platform falls within the scope of the licensing framework given YouTube’s video-sharing features. The authority says that it has “deliberated on the issues raised” and will ensure that YouTube and other relevant platforms that meet the licensing criteria are bound by their responsibilities to adhere to the licensing framework.

So far, two platforms have received Application Service Provider Class licenses in the country, namely WeChat and TikTok. Meanwhile, Telegram is in the final stages of the licensing process, and MCMC expects the company to secure its license soon. Similarly, Meta has applied for licenses for its services and is also in the process of obtaining them.

According to the regulator, harmful content includes—

(i) Child Sexual Abuse Material (“CSAM”).

(ii) Non-consensual sharing of intimate content.

(iii) Content used to attempt or carry out online financial scams such as phishing, romance scams, investment scams, and other deceptive schemes.

(iv) Content that is used to bully.

(v) Content that can incite violence, extremism and/or terrorism.

(vi) Content that is likely to induce a child to cause physical and/or psychological harm to themselves.

(vii) Content that incites hate speech.

(viii) Content related to the sale of illegal drugs.

(ix) Manipulated media, such as deepfakes and/or doctored images that can cause harm to individuals or society.

The framework applies to internet messaging services and social media services which it defines as follows—

With respect to user thresholds, MCMC will rely on its official surveys (including its own internet user survey) to quantify the number of Malaysian users. It will also factor in other publicly available and reliable data points.

Platforms that meet the eight million user threshold will have to:

The license is valid for a period of one year. Following this, service providers have to re-apply every year provided they meet the user threshold.

Service providers who meet the user threshold but do not have a license may be held liable for:

Applicants must comply with Malaysia’s Communication and Multimedia Act, 1988, and directions that the MCMC might issue to ensure compliance with the Act. Service providers have to ensure they try their best to prevent people from using their services to commit an offense under Malaysian laws. They also have to assist MCMC or any other authority in their efforts to prevent any offenses under Malaysian laws.

The MCMC sets the following directions for the platform code of conduct—

Platforms must provide users with tools and settings that enable users to manage online safety, control their account interactions, visibility and privacy and tools that allow the user to manage their data. With respect to harmful content reporting, platforms must respond to user reports related to CSAM within 24 hours and take action to remove such content if they find the reported content constitutes CSAM.

They must also establish clear and transparent guidelines including for user reporting, and appeals related to harmful content so that users can monitor the progress of how the platform tackles any harmful content that they report. They must allow users reporting harmful content the opportunity to remain anonymous, while still providing necessary evidence of an offense to law enforcement agencies.

To protect children from harm, platforms must implement effective age verification mechanisms with due respect to the privacy of the child. “Sole reliance on self-declaration of age is

inadequate, as this measure could be easily circumvented,” MCMC says. As such, it suggests that platforms should use robust age verification systems “benchmarked against industry best practice” to prevent children from accessing harmful content. The authority requires platforms to provide parents with tools to monitor their children’s online activities and provide children with tools to protect themselves from harmful interactions. Platforms must conduct regular audits of the measures they have put in place for children’s safety.

Platforms have to keep records of the harmful content removals that they carry out including the rationale behind each removal for a period which the regulator may prescribe later. They also have to submit half yearly reports which include:

Platforms also have to publish annual public reports about their online safety practices including:

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event