What’s the news: India’s Defence, law enforcement, corporate and public infrastructure agencies may soon be getting an indigenous AI authentication system developed by a woman-led start-up, as per a Defence Ministry press release .

The announcement from June 14, 2024, talked about an AI tool, ‘Divya Drishti’, that integrates facial recognition with physiological parameters such as gait and skeleton and claimed that the tool offered enhanced accuracy and reliability in identifying individuals.

“This dual approach enhances the accuracy of identification, minimizing the risk of false positives or identity fraud and has versatile applications across Defence, Law Enforcement, Corporate and Public Infrastructure. The AI tool has been developed under the technical guidance and mentoring by Centre for Artificial Intelligence & Robotics (CAIR), a laboratory of DRDO based at Bangalore,” said the Ministry.

The tool is made by Ingenious Research Solutions Pvt Ltd., a start-up established by Dr. Shivani Verma after winning the ‘Dare to Dream Innovation contest 2.0,’ organised by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).

DRDO’s interest in AI development is certainly not surprising. In May, it collaborated with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bhubaneswar on undertaking AI-driven surveillance projects . In March, Army Chief General Manoj Pande said that the Indian army is preparing an AI roadmap for the next 20 to 25 years and highlighted the growing interest in using AI. However, what’s interesting here is that this DRDO collaboration for authentication is being extended to law enforcement agencies as well.

Already, an RTI report by the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) in 2022 revealed how the Delhi police use facial recognition technology to target individuals accused of rioting, despite low accuracy rates. The report showed how the premature use of technologies like facial recognition for law enforcement purposes can lead to religious bias. So, while it is great that indigenous start-ups are working on such technology, what additional efforts like the start-up and the DRDO taking to effectively address such biases in the AI tool?

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event