The petitioner/accused seeks anticipatory bail in Crime No.213

of 2019 of Mydukur U/G Police Station, YSR Kadapa District,

registered for the offences under Sections 420 and 406 of IPC. 2. On the complaint of the Branch Manager, Kadapa District

Co-operative Central Bank Limited (KDCC), Kadapa, Mydukur

Branch, dated 25.05.2019, the police registered the crime. The

complaint allegations briefly are that the petitioner/accused has

worked as outsource messenger in Mydukur Branch from December,

2016 to October, 2018 and he has computer knowledge. He

misappropriated bank funds to an amount of Rs.10,02,555/- directly

by transferring the amounts from various customer accounts to his SB

Account No.28696 of DCC Bank Limited, Mydukur Branch and also

by online transfer from various customer accounts to his account

No.104010100064485 of State Bank of India, Mydukur Branch and to

his account No.30280389772 of Andhra Bank, Mydukur Branch. It is

further alleged that the petitioner has unauthorizedly taken six ATM

cards of some customers mentioned in the complaint from the custody

of Smt.M.K.M.Indira, Manager of Mydukur Branch, which were not

distributed to the concerned customers. He misappropriated

Rs.2,94,454/- by using the said six ATM cards. Thus, in all, he

misappropriated bank funds to a tune of Rs.12,97,009/- in

86 customer accounts. It is further stated that during enquiry, the 2 petitioner repaid back an amount of Rs.7,00,000/- upon detection of

his fraud and same has been distributed to various accounts. The

balance amount to be recovered is Rs.5,97,009/-. The investigation is

reported to be pending. 3. Heard learned counsel for petitioner and learned additional

public prosecutor. 4. Denying the complaint allegations, bail is pleaded for mainly

on the submission that the petitioner is only an outsourcing messenger

in the bank and he has no such requisite criminal knowledge and

computer technical expertise to draw amounts from the accounts of

the customers and their ATM cards and he was made a scapegoat for

the fault of the bank staff. It is argued that even in the complaint

itself, the manager stated that departmental action is initiated against

the employees who were involved in sharing of the passwords, which

would show that the concerned employees are infact responsible for

the bank fraud but not the petitioner. It is further argued that there is

no possibility for petitioner to get the ATM cards of the customers as

the new ATM cards will be directly sent to the customer address by

courier and therefore, the allegation that he misused the ATM cards of

the six customers is palpably false. 5. Per contra, learned additional public prosecutor opposed the

bail application stating that the petitioner has committed fraud to a

tune of rupees twelve lakhs and odd and when his fraud was detected,

he repaid Rs.7,00,000/- and the investigation is now in brisk pace to 3 unearth the modus operandi adopted by him to get transfer the

amounts of customers from their respective accounts and whether, he

has misappropriated the amounts of any other customers so far

unidentified. 6. A perusal of the CD file shows that the bank could secure the

particulars as to whose accounts the misappropriate amounts were

transferred. It appears some of the amounts were transferred to the

account of the petitioner and to his relations. Thus, there is a prima

facie case against the petitioner. Investigation is at the crucial stage.

If bail is granted, certainly the petitioner will try to meddle with the

investigation. Hence, the bail application is dismissed. As a sequel, miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, in this case

shall stand closed. __________________________
 U. DURGA PRASAD RAO, J
18.09.2019
SS