In February this year, the Maharashtra Cyber Cell issued a directive to ticketing platforms BookMyShow and Zomato to mandatorily print out buyer’s names on tickets for events with high demand. Ticketing platforms also have to ensure that they check the government IDs of the ticket holders at the event venue.

This came after Amit Vyas, the founder of Vertice Partners, filed a complaint against BookMyShow with the Economic Offences Wing, Mumbai in September last year. The complaint alleged that BookMyShow and Live Nation Entertainment (organiser of the Coldplay concert) conspired to black-market tickets of Coldplay’s January show in India on the reselling site Viagogo. Vyas also went to the Bombay High Court and sought guidelines to address ticket scaling and resale of tickets online, only for the court to dismiss his request.

Mumbai: Maharashtra Cyber has directed BookMyShow and Zomato to print buyers' names on tickets for major events to curb black marketing. Entry will require a government-issued ID. A white paper will outline legal and technical measures for ticket regulation Maharashtra Cyber… pic.twitter.com/5NwNJXlkpI

“We think this step will help curb black marketing of tickets to a significant degree and ensure that true sports and music lovers will be able to buy them,” Maharashtra Cyber Cell chief Yashasvi Yadav told news agency IANS. He also told the news agency that the Cyber Cell will come out with a whitepaper to outline the legal and technical measures for ticket regulation.

While intended as a positive step, this directive raised more questions than it answered. For instance, what is the rationale behind printing names on tickets? Does the Maharashtra Cyber Cell even have the authority to issue such directives to digital platforms? Can people legally sell their tickets to another person?

In the case of popular events like the Coldplay concert, which started this entire situation, tickets can often increase manifold in value. For instance, while BookMyShow had listed these tickets for between Rs 2000 and Rs 12,500 , tickets listed on the re-selling site Viagogo went for a price ranging from Rs 30,000 to Rs 2 lakhs per ticket .

As such, Ajay Kumar, partner at Triumvir Law, emphasised that the police requirements to print names on tickets make sense because otherwise, the ticket becomes negotiable. “If a ticket is negotiable, it has the potential to gain a monetary value or actually even lose monetary value,” Kumar explained.

Another rationale could be maintaining law and order. If the police have a list of everyone who is attending an event, they would be equipped to maintain the crowd. They can figure out who they need to keep track of. “If you want to secure something, you need to know who all are there. That’s probably one of the reasons why the police seem to have issued this under police regulations,” Kumar mentioned.

“Under Section 168 of the Bhartiya Nagrik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS), which allows them to issue directions to prevent the commission of cognisable offenses,” Kumar explained. He explained that the police could be looking to address two separate issues with its directive—

“At the end of the day, you can’t have someone write a computer program, have a little bit of capital, buy out all the concert tickets, and then just sell it to whoever they want,” Kumar mentioned. He added that the police in Bombay have powers not only under BNSS but also under the Bombay Police Act , which allows them to issue a wide range of directions. For instance, under the Act, the police can give reasonable directions as to the mode of admission of the public to a place of amusement to prevent serious disorder or breach of law.

Discussing this case with MediaNama, Astha Srivastava, Principal Associate at Ikigai Law quoted a 2015 order of the Chandigarh High Court where the police department registered an FIR against software engineer Mandeep Singh for re-selling Cricket World Cup tickets for a price higher than what the ICC had sold them for. “Charges were filed under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code alleging cheating” she mentioned. However, the court eventually concluded that black marketing of tickets by itself is not prohibited anywhere and quashed the FIR against Singh.

“I think we need a special law if we were to categorize reselling of concert tickets as an offence” she mentioned. She added that preventing black marketing falls within the domain of the consumer protection authorities. “These authorities can say that you are selling tickets at a higher price and that is harming consumers. In fact, the United States has a specific law prohibiting reselling of tickets called Better Online Ticket Sales Act of 2016 and the Federal Trade Commission (responsible for consumer protection) primarily enforces it,” Srivastava argued.

Just like Shrivastava, the Bombay High Court also believes that regulatory intervention in the ticketing space needs to come from the central government.

“While the petitioner’s grievances highlight the urgent need for regulatory intervention to address the challenges posed by the evolving online ticketing industry, the responsibility for creating a statutory framework lies with the legislature,” it said when it dismissed Amit Vyas’ public interest litigation seeking guidelines for preventing black marketing, and ticket scalping.

Regarding whether or not digital platforms will follow through with police directives, he added that police maintain law and order during major public events, which is colloquially described as ‘ bandobast ’. “So the police can decide how officers need to be deployed for an event to prevent a law and order problem and what their [bandobast] charges will be,” he explained.

Anyone looking to host an event in India will need police cooperation to make sure everything goes smoothly. “No one who would ideally want to override the police because no one wants a riot or a stampede to happen, the risk of that is super high,” Kumar said.

This could boil down to the terms and conditions on which ticketing platforms/ the companies putting the show together, are selling them. For instance, according to the ICC’s website , people can only buy tickets for themselves or for their guests for its tournaments. Guest here means a person who the ticket purchaser knows personally and who they did not get to know through the sale, transfer, or disposal of the ticket.

ICC restricts people from buying tickets as an agent for another person. Neither a ticket purchaser nor their guest can re-sell or transfer a ticket without prior approval. “The benefit conferred by a ticket is personal to the ticket purchaser or guest and is not otherwise assignable or transferable, except as expressly permitted,” ICC’s terms and conditions specify. In such a case, people may not really have the right to re-sell tickets because the terms of the ticket purchase expressly state that.

Kumar also mentioned that people do not necessarily have the right to re-sell tickets.  “At the end of the day, it is a license to enter a performance not a right. You can’t necessarily assign this license to someone else,” he said. The whole purpose of such performances, Kumar added, is for the artist/performer to have end control of the prices, and if someone re-sells their ticket, they would not have such control. “What you’re doing with re-selling the ticket is you’re essentially depriving the artist of that large chunk of revenue as well. So either way, what the police are doing makes sense. I know it’s an unpopular opinion, but it makes a lot of sense why they would do this,” he explained.

On the other hand, Shrivastava doubts whether the police can issue directions to ticketing platforms to print names on tickets. “As an airline or a concert organizer, I can give you certain conditions you must comply with to avail my services. If one of those conditions says that to get this ticket, you’ll have to give your name, and these tickets are non-transferable, there’s nothing stopping me from doing it. However, can the Police department do so without a specific law? I doubt” she added.

Kumar explained that this directive does not necessarily mean that platforms like Viagogo would no longer have any business. To continue operations, they will have to enter into some sort of agreement with ticket-selling services so that they can become the legal platform for ticket trading. “We’ll put an upper-band price cap, we’ll put a lower-band price cap, we’ll make sure the government gets its tax on the second sale,” he mentioned.

Certain event organisers already have mechanisms in place for re-selling. For instance, the ICC allows people to re-sell tickets for certain cricket matches on the T20 World Cup website itself (provided that the buyer initially bought their ticket from the T20 website). It also charges a 5% re-selling fee.

Note: The story was updated on March 3, 2025 at 2:45 PM to correct a typographical error.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event