****

 This appeal, is directed, against the judgment and decree, RSA No. 1967 of 2008 2 dated 22.03.04, rendered by the Court of Civil Judge (Junior Division),

Malerkotla, vide which, it dismissed the suit of the plaintiff, and the

judgment and decree, dated 05.02.08, rendered by the Additional

District Judge (A), Fast Track Court, Sangrur, vide which, he

dismissed the appeal. 2. The facts, in brief, are that, the plaintiff/appellant, claimed

herself to be the owner in possession of the land, in dispute. She filed a

partition application, under Section 111 of the Punjab Land Revenue

Act, 1987, in the Court of Assistant Collector 1st Grade, Malerkotla, for

partition of the land, in dispute. In reply to that application, Nirmal

Singh, defendant No. 1/respondent, claimed himself to be the owner in

possession of the land, in dispute, on the basis of the judgement and

decree dated 02.06.84, passed in Civil Suit No. 142 of 07.04.84, titled

as 'Nirmal Singh Vs. Lekh Kaur'. It was also stated by defendant No. 1,

that as per the revenue record, the mutation, in respect of the land, in

dispute, had been sanctioned, in his favour, showing him to be the

owner thereof. It was further stated that the plaintiff, obtained the

certified copies of the judgement and decree, plaint, written statement,

Vakalatnama, as also the statement, allegedly suffered, by her, in the

Court of Sh. D.K. Sarpal, the then Sub Judge 1st Class, Malerkotla, in

civil suit No. 142 of 07.04.84.` It was further stated that the judgement

and decree dated 02.06.84, being the result of fraud and

misrepresentation, were illegal, null and void, inoperative, against her

rights, and non-existent, in the eyes of law. It was further stated that RSA No. 1967 of 2008 3 the plaintiff, was never served, in Suit No. 142 of 07.04.84, nor did she

engage any Counsel therein, to appear, on her behalf. It was further

stated that the plaintiff, never appeared, in that suit, for filing written

statement, nor did she suffer any statement, admitting the claim of

defendant No. 1, in the Court. It was further stated that defendant No.

1, got the decree passed, from the Court, at the back of the plaintiff. It

was further stated that the mutation, sanctioned, on the basis of the said

decree, was also illegal, null, void, and not binding against the rights of

the plaintiff, qua her ownership, in the land, in dispute. Defendants No.

2 and 3/respondents are recorded as co-sharers, in the land, in dispute.

The defendants, were many a time asked, to treat the said decree, as

null and void, being the result of fraud and not to alienate the land, in

dispute, but to no avail. Ultimately, a suit for declaration, joint

possession, and permanent injunction, was filed. 3. Defendant No. 1/respondent, put in appearance, filed

written statement, and contested the suit. It was pleaded that the suit

was barred by limitation. It was stated that Mai was the great grand-

mother of defendant No. 1 and grand-mother of the plaintiff. She was

married to Attar Singh, great grand-father of defendant No. 1. After the

death of Attar Singh, she performed marriage with Ran Singh, grand-

father of the plaintiff. It was further stated that Lekh Kaur, plaintiff, is

the father's sister (Bua) of defendant No. 1. It was stated that defendant

No. 1, was in exclusive possession of the suit property, since the day of

family settlement, which was arrived at, more than 15 years earlier to RSA No. 1967 of 2008 4 the filing of the written statement. It was further stated that decree

dated 02.06.84, was suffered by the plaintiff voluntarily, which only

recognized the pre-existing right of defendant No. 1, in the land, in

dispute, on the basis of family settlement, already arrived at. It was

further stated that defendant No. 1, had become owner by adverse

possession. The remaining averments were denied, being wrong. 4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were

struck:- OPD (ix) Whether the defendant has become owner
 of the property in dispute by way of
 adverse possession? OPD RSA No. 1967 of 2008 5 (x) Relief. 5. After hearing the Counsel for the parties, and, on

going through the evidence, on record, the trial Court, dismissed the

suit of the plaintiff. 6. Feeling aggrieved, an appeal was preferred, by the

plaintiff/appellant, which was also dismissed, by the Additional District

Judge (A), Fast Track Court, Sangrur, vide judgment and decree dated

05.02.08. 7. Still feeling dissatisfied, the instant Regular Second

Appeal, has been filed by the appellant. 8. I have heard the Counsel for the parties, and have gone

through the evidence and record of the case, carefully. 9. The following substantial questions of law arise, in this

appeal, for the determination of this Court:- (i) Whether the Courts below recorded
 perverse findings, that there was a legal
 and valid family settlement, between
 Lekh Kaur, appellant, on the one hand,
 and Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1,
 on the other hand, and, as such, there
 was pre-existing right, in his (Nirmal
 Singh's) favour, in the property, in
 dispute? (ii) Whether the Courts below, recorded
 perverse findings, on account of
 misreading and misappreciation of
 evidence, and contrary to the settled
 position of law that the judgement and
 decree dated 02.06.84, passed in Civil
 Suit No. 142 of 07.04.84, did not
 amount to transferring the right and
 title, in the immovable property worth RSA No. 1967 of 2008 6 more than Rs. 100/-, for the first time,
 in favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent
 No. 1, and, as such, did not require
 registration? (iii) Whether the Courts below, recorded
 perverse findings, on account of
 misreading and misappreciation of
 evidence, that the judgement and
 decree dated 02.06.84, were not the
 result of fraud, played upon Lekh
 Kaur, and misrepresentation, made to
 her, by Nirmal Singh, respondent
 No. 1? (iv) Whether the Courts below, recorded
 perverse findings, to the effect, that the
 suit, was barred by time? 10. The Counsel for the appellant, submitted that Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, was not a member of the family of Lekh Kaur. He

further submitted that, under these circumstances, there was no

question of any legal and valid family settlement, between the parties,

and no such family settlement was arrived at, and, as such, there was no

pre-existing right, in favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, in the

property, in dispute. He further submitted that the judgement and

decree dated 02.06.84, created right, in the immovable property,

belonging to Lekh Kaur, in favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1,

worth upwards Rs. 100/-, for the first time, and, as such, in the absence

of registration thereof, were illegal. He further submitted that such an

illegal decree, did not confer any right of ownership, upon Nirmal

Singh, respondent No. 1. He further submitted that Lekh Kaur, did not

appear, in the previous suit, in which, the decree dated 02.06.84, was

passed, against her, nor did she engage any Counsel, to defend her RSA No. 1967 of 2008 7 therein, nor did she file any written statement, admitting the claim of

Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1 (plaintiff therein). He further

submitted that Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, played fraud upon her,

and also misrepresented the facts, in the previous suit. He further

submitted that, in the previous suit, in which, the decree, was passed,

Lekh Kaur, was described by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1

(plaintiff therein), as his father's sister (Bua). He further submitted that

this assertion of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, made in the plaint of

the previous suit, was false, to his knowledge. He further submitted that

even, in the plaint of the previous suit, Nirmal Singh, respondent No.

1, averred that, a family settlement took place, between him and Lekh

Kaur, which fact, was false, to his knowledge. He further submitted

that Lekh Kaur, came to know, on 06.11.98 of the judgement and

decree dated 02.06.84, when Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, filed a

reply, in the application instituted by her for partition, under Section

111 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act, in the Court of Assistant

Collector 1st Grade, Malerkotla. He further submitted that, thus, the

suit, was filed, within the period of limitation. He further submitted that

the judgements and decrees of the Courts below, being illegal, were

liable to be set aside. 11. On the other hand, the Counsel for the respondents,

submitted that Lekh Kaur, appellant, is the father's sister (Bua) of

Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1. He further submitted that, thus, there

was a legal and valid family settlement, between them, before the RSA No. 1967 of 2008 8 decree dated 02.06.84, was passed. He further submitted that, thus, the

judgement and decree only acknowledged the pre-existing right, in

favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, in pursuance of the family

settlement, and did not create right and interest, in the immovable

property, in his favour, worth upwards Rs. 100/-, for the first time. He

further submitted that the Courts below, on correct reading and due

appreciation of evidence, rightly passed the judgement and decree

dated 02.06.84, in favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1. He

further submitted that the judgement and decree dated 02.06.84, did not

require registration. He further submitted that the judgements and

decrees of the Courts below, being legal and valid, were liable to be

upheld. 12. After giving my thoughtful consideration, to the rival

contentions, advanced by the Counsel for the parties, in my considered

opinion, the appeal is liable to be accepted, for the reasons to be

recorded, hereinafter. It is, no doubt, true that, this Court, in the

Regular Second Appeal, cannot interfere with the findings of fact,

recorded by the Courts below, until and unless, it comes to the

conclusion, that the same are the result of misreading or

misappreciation of evidence or contrary to the settled position of law.

The first question, that arises for consideration, is, as to whether,

Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1 (plaintiff in the earlier suit), was a

member of the family of Lekh Kaur, appellant, and, as such, there was

a legal and valid family settlement, between them. No doubt, Nirmal RSA No. 1967 of 2008 9 Singh, respondent No. 1, claimed that, Lekh Kaur, appellant, is his

father's sister (Bua), yet this claim, made by him, is nothing but a tissue

of lies. In the written statement of the suit, out of which, the instant

appeal, has arisen, the pedigree table, was depicted by Nirmal Singh,

defendant (respondent No. 1), which is extracted as under:- ----------------------------------------------------------------- 13. It is evident, from the pedigree table, depicted above, that

Lekh Kaur, is not the sister of the father of Nirmal Singh, respondent

No. 1. On the other hand, Lekh Kaur, as per this pedigree table, is

shown to be distantly related to Nirmal Singh,respondent No. 1. Nirmal

Singh, respondent No. 1, is the descendant of Attar Singh, and Lekh

Kaur, is the descendant of Ran Singh. No doubt, Attar Singh and Ran

Singh, have been shown to be the brothers. Lekh Kaur, is shown to be

the daughter of Kala Singh, whereas, Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1,

is shown to be the son of Hardit Singh. Hardit Singh, is shown to be the

grand-son of Attar Singh. Nirmal Singh, is the great grand-son of Attar

Singh, whereas, Lekh Kaur, is shown to be the grand-daughter of Ran RSA No. 1967 of 2008 10 Singh. By no stretch of imagination, it, could be said, that Lekh Kaur,

is the father's sister of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, and, as such, is

related, to him as Bua. Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, was certainly

not a member of the family of Lekh Kaur, and, as such, the question of

any legal and valid family settlement, between them, did not at all arise.

No doubt, in the plaint of the previous suit, it was stated, that there was

a legal and valid family settlement. The date, month, and the year,

when the alleged family settlement took place, were not mentioned, in

the plaint of the previous suit. Even, no independent evidence, was led,

by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, as to, on which date, month, and

year, the alleged family settlement took place, between him, and Lekh

Kaur; which other members,were present, at the time of the alleged

family settlement; what was the dispute, between the parties; what were

the terms and conditions of the alleged family settlement; and what was

given by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, to Lekh Kaur, in lieu of the

land, allegedly given, to him, in the aforesaid family settlement by her.

Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, himself, did not appear, as his own

witness. Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, was a practicing lawyer, in

the Courts at Malerkotla, at the time, the alleged decree dated 02.06.84,

was passed. No doubt, Tarlochan Singh, DW1, during the course of his

cross-examination, stated that, there was a family settlement, between

the parties. He, however, in the same breath, stated that, it did not take

place, in his presence, but, in the presence of his father, who told him RSA No. 1967 of 2008 11 about the same. He further stated that his father had demised. He

further stated that, no writing, was executed, in respect of the said

family settlement. Gurbachan Singh, DW2, brother of Lekh Kaur,

however, stated, in his examination-in-chief, by way of affidavit, that

there was family settlement, between her and Nirmal Singh, respondent

No. 1, in January, 1984. During the course of his cross-examination, he

stated that Jaggar Singh, Namberdar, was present, at that time. He

further stated that a writing, was executed, in respect of the said family

settlement. This writing, was made, on a stamp paper. He further stated

that the document, was scribed, by a Deed Writer, and, he made an

entry thereof, in his register. He further stated that, even the Patwari,

was informed of the family settlement. However, the document alleged

to have been scribed by a Deed Writer, in respect of the alleged family

settlement, never saw the light of the day. In other words, it was not

produced, on record. This clearly goes to show, that the statement of

Gurbachan Singh, DW2, to the effect, that a family settlement, took

place, is totally false. What prevented him, from producing the

document, is not known. He did not furnish any explanation, in that

regard. Raja Singh, DW3, attorney of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1,

however, stated that, no writing, was executed, in respect of the family

settlement. Even the alleged family settlement, did not take place, in his

presence. The statement of Raja Singh, DW3, that no document, was

executed, at the time of the alleged family settlement, is contradictory

to the statement of Gurbachan Singh, DW2. From their statements, it RSA No. 1967 of 2008 12 was not at all proved, that any alleged family settlement, took place,

between the parties, as a result whereof, the land, in dispute, was given

to Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, by Lekh Kaur. The mere assertion,

in the plaint of the previous suit, that there was a family settlement,

between the parties, without substantiation, through any cogent and

convincing evidence, was hardly of any consequence, to prove this

factum. The story set up by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, in the

plaint of the previous said, that there was a family settlement, between

him, and Lekh Kaur, was nothing, but a concoction of lies. The Courts

below, on account of complete misreading and misappreciation of

evidence, as also against settled principles of law, came to the

conclusion, that there was a legal and valid family settlement, between

Lekh Kaur and Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, as a result whereof, he

had pre-existing right, in the property, in dispute. The findings of the

Courts below, in this regard, being perverse, are liable to be set aside. 14. Once, it has been held, that there was no legal and valid

family settlement, between Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, on the one

hand, and Lekh Kaur, appellant, on the other hand, and he had no pre-

existing right, in the property, in dispute, the next question, that arises

for consideration is, as to whether, the judgement and decree dated

02.06.84, created right, in the immovable property, worth more than

Rs. 100/-, for the first time, in favour of Nirmal Singh, defedendant

No. 1, and as such, for want of registration, could not be acted upon.

Sub Section (1) of Section 17 of the Act, specifies the RSA No. 1967 of 2008 13 documents, of which, registration is compulsory; clauses (b), (c) and (e) whereof, read as under:- "17- Documents of which registration is
 compulsory

 (1) The following documents shall be
 registered, if the property to which
 they relate is situated in a district in
 which, and if they have been executed
 on or after the date on which, Act. No.
 XVI of 1864, or the Indian
 Registration Act, 1866 , or the Indian
 Registration Act, 1871 , or the Indian
 Registration Act, 1877 , or this Act
 came or comes into force, namely:- (b) other non-testamentary instruments
 which purport or operate to create,
 declare, assign, limit or extinguish,
 whether in present or in future, any
 right, title or interest, whether vested
 or contingent, of the value of one
 hundred rupees and upwards, to or in
 immovable property; (c) non-testamentary instruments which
 acknowledge the receipt or payment of
 any consideration on account of the
 creation, declaration, assignment,
 limitation or extinction of any such
 right, title or interest; and (e) non-testamentary instruments
 transferring or assigning any decree or
 order of a Court or any award when
 such decree or order or award purports
 or operates to create, declare, assign,
 limit or extinguish, whether in present
 or in future, any right, title or interest,
 whether vested or contingent, of the
 value of one hundred rupees and
 upwards, to or in immovable property: Provided that the State Government
 may, by order published in the Official
 Gazette, exempt from the operation of
 this sub-section any lease executed in RSA No. 1967 of 2008 14 any district, or part of a district, the
 terms granted by which do not exceed
 five years and the annual rents reserved
 by which do not exceed fifty rupees." "Sub Section (2) of Section 17 of the
 Registration Act, 1908, however,
 carves out an exception therefrom,
 stating that, nothing in clauses (b) and (c) of Sub Section (1) of Section 17 ,
 would inter-alia apply to "any decree
 of order of a Court except a decree or
 order expressed to be made on a
 compromise and comprising
 immovable property other hand that
 which is the subject matter of the suit
 or proceeding." 15. Since the decree amounted to transferring right and title, in

favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, for the first time, in the

immovable property, worth more than Rs. 100/-, in view of the

provisions of Section 17 of the Registration Act, extracted above, the

same required registration. In Bhoop Singh Vs. Ram Singh Major

and others , AIR 1996 (SC), 196, the principle of law, laid down, was

to the effect, that the exception engrafted to Clause (vi) of Section 17

(2) is meant to cover that decree or order of a Court, including a decree

or order expressed to be made on a compromise, which declares the

pre-existing right, and does not by itself, create new right, title or

interest in praesenti in immovable property of the value of Rs. 100/- or

upwards. Any other view, would find the mischief of avoidance of

registration, which requires payment of stamp duty, embedded in the

decree or order. The Court should, therefore, examine in each case,

whether the parties have pre-existing right to the immovable property, RSA No. 1967 of 2008 15 or whether, under the order or decree of the Court, one party having

right, title or interest therein, agreed to extinguish the same, and created

right, title or interest in praesenti in immovable property of the value of

Rs. 100/- or upwards, in favour of the other party, for the first time,

either by compromise or pretended consent. If the latter be the position,

the document is compulsorily registrable. Similar principle of law, was laid down, in K. Raghunandan & others Vs. Ali Hussain Sabir and

others , 2008(3), RCR (Civil), 699 (SC), Brij Lal and another Vs. Smt.

Pari Devi and others, 2004(2), RCR (Civil), 536, Nachhattar Singh

and another Vs. Jangir Singh and others, 2005(1), RCR (Civil), 777,

and Ajay Chaudhary Vs. Santosh Kumar and another, 2004(1), RCR

(Civil), 807. The Courts below, were, thus, wrong in holding, that the

decree dated 02.06.84, did not create right and title, in Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, for the first time, in the immovable property, worth

more than Rs. 100/-, and did not require registration. The findings of

the Courts below, to this extent, being perverse and illegal, are liable to

be set aside. 16. The Counsel for Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, however,

placed reliance, on Bachan Singh Vs. Kartar Singh and others , 2002

(3), RCR (Civil), 495 (SC), Mukanda Vs. Kura Ram and others,

(2003-2), PLR, 198, and Jagdish and others Vs. Ram Karan and

others, (2003-1), PLR, 182, in support of his contention, that since the

decree, was passed, on the basis of family settlement, having been

arrived at, to the filing of the earlier suit, between the parties, and there

was pre-existing right, in favour of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, in RSA No. 1967 of 2008 16 the property, in question, the same did not require registration. In Bachan Singh 's case (supra), the consent decree, was passed, in favour

of the plaintiff, where he (plaintiff), had claimed perfection of title, by

virtue of adverse possession. It was an admission of right of adverse

possession, by the defendant, in favour of the plaintiff. The right and

title, in the immovable property, worth Rs.100/- or upwards, was not

created, in favour of the plaintiff, for the first time, vide the decree, in

question. In these circumstances, it was held, that the same, did not

require registration. In Jagdish and others' case (supra), the decree,

was suffered by one Basti Ram, who was unmarried, in favour of his

real brother Ram Karan, who was a member of his family, and, had a

semblance of right of succession, in the property, being one of the legal

heirs. In these circumstances, it was held, that Basti Ram, being a

disabled person, was living with Ram Karan, and was being looked

after by his family. Therefore, the decree, was held to be legal and

valid. It was also held that the said decree, having been passed, on the

basis of the family settlement, did not require registration, as Ram

Karan, was a member of the family of Basti Ram, as also one of his

legal heirs. In Mukanda's case (supra), the suit property, was Joint

Hindu Family co-parcenary property, in the hands of Saudagar

(deceased). He transferred the suit land, during his life time, in favour

of defendants No. 1 and 2, namely Kura Ram and Krishan Lal, by

virtue of a Civil Court decree, without giving anything to the plaintiff,

and his sister Dayalo. The decree, was challenged, in the trial Court, by RSA No. 1967 of 2008 17 the plaintiff. The first Appellate Court, however, set aside the said

decree, and the suit of the plaintiff, was dismissed. However, this

Court, in Regular Second Appeal, reversed the judgement and decree of

the first Appellate Court, holding that the property, in dispute, was a

co-parcenary property. The facts of the cases, relied upon, by the

Counsel for respondent No. 1, are clearly distinguishable, from the

facts of the instant case. In the cases, relied upon, by the Counsel for

respondent No. 1, there was a pre-existing right, in the plaintiff, in the

property, in question, and the judgement and decree, only

acknowledged his/her pre-existing right, in the property. In the instant

case, there was no pre-existing right, in Nirmal Singh, respondent No.

1, in the property, in dispute, as has been held above, as he being not a

member of the family, the question of any legal and valid family

settlement, having been arrived at between the parties, did not at all

arise. No help, therefore, can be drawn, by the Counsel for respondent

No. 1, from the ratio of law, laid down, in Bachan Singh's,

Mukanda's and Jagdish and others' cases (supra), as the facts

thereof, are clearly distinguishable, from the facts of the instant case. 17. Now coming to the factum of fraud, played upon Lekh

Kaur, by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, and the misrepresentation,

made to her, at the time of passing of the previous decree dated

02.06.84, it may be stated here, that the same, were also proved from

the evidence on record. No doubt, the fraud, is to be proved, in a civil

case, in the same manner, as it is required to be proved, in a criminal RSA No. 1967 of 2008 18 case. However, it is also equally true, that there can hardly be any

direct evidence, to prove fraud. As stated above, Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, was not a member of the family of Lekh Kaur. He

was only distantly related, to her, as a collateral, as depicted, in the

pedigree table, referred to hereinbefore. According to Section 17 of the

Indian Contract Act, 1872, "Fraud" means and includes any of the

following acts committed by a party to a contract, or with his

connivance, or by his agent, with intent to deceive another party thereto

or his agent, or to induce him to enter into the contract:- Explanation:- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect the willingness of

a person to enter into a contract is not fraud, unless the circumstances

of the case are such that regard being had to them, it is the duty of the

person keeping silence to speak, or unless his silence is, in itself,

equivalent to speech. 18. In the instant case, as stated above, in the plaint of the

earlier suit, it was suggested, as a fact, that a legal and valid family

settlement, took place, between the parties. It was not true to the RSA No. 1967 of 2008 19 knowledge of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1. Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, was also having a true knowledge, that Lekh Kaur,

was not his father's sister (Bua) but, even then, he made an assertion,

regarding his aforesaid relationship with her, which was untrue to his

knowledge. Not only this, Lekh Kuar, PW1, in clear-cut terms stated,

that she never suffered decree dated 02.06.84, in favour of Nirmal

Singh, respondent No. 1. She further stated that, before Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, went abroad, he used to cultivate her land. She

further stated that, she never engaged any Counsel, nor did she appear,

in the Court, in the earlier suit, filed by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1

(plaintiff therein). She did not even file any written statement,

admitting the claim of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, in the previous

suit. Dr. Atul Singla, Handwriting and Finger Prints Expert, was

examined, as PW4. He compared the questioned thumb impressions Q1

and Q2, allegedly affixed by Lekh Kaur, on the written statement of the

previous suit dated 29.05.84, Q3, allegedly affixed on Vakalatnama, in

favour of Sh. M.S. Tiwana, Advocate, and Q4, on the statement dated

02.06.84, in the summoned file titled as 'Nirmal Singh Vs. Lekh Kaur',

bearing Civil Suit No. 142, dated 07.04.84, decided on 02.06.84, with

her standard thumb impressions, as S1, on the plaint, dated 14.11.98,

S2, on the Vakalatnama, in favour of Sh. U.S. Chahal, Advocate, and

S3, on the affidavit, dated 14.11.98. He came to the conclusion, that

thumb impressions mark Q1 to Q3, had not been affixed, by the lady,

whose standard thumb impressions, were marked, as S1 to S3. He RSA No. 1967 of 2008 20 further came to the conclusion, that the questioned thumb impression

marked as Q4, tallied with the standard thumb impressions S1 to S3.

He further came to the conclusion that the thumb impressions, marked

as Q1 to Q3, were non-identical, to the thumb impressions, marked as

Q4. He gave detailed reasons, in his opinion PW4/1. The photographs

are PW4/2 to PW4/5 and negatives are PW4/6 to PW4/12. Major Singh

Tiwana, Advocate, PW3, no doubt, stated that, he was engaged by

Lekh Kaur, and she thumb marked the Vakalatnama, in his favour.

However, his statement is completely belied by Dr. Atul Singla,

Handwriting and Finger Prints Expert, PW4. The science, with regard

to the identification of finger prints, is conclusive and admits of no

doubt. From the statement of Dr. Atul Singla, PW4, it is proved,

beyond doubt, that Lekh Kaur, never thumb marked the Vakalatnama,

in favour of Major Singh Tiwana, Advocate, which means, that he was

never engaged, by her, in the earlier suit, nor did she thumb mark the

written statement, in the earlier suit, admitting the claim of Nirmal

Singh. Thus, the thumb impressions of Lekh Kaur, on the Vakalatnama,

in favour of Major Singh Tiwana, Advocate, and, on the written

statement, admitting the claim of Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, were

forged. No doubt, on the statement of admission, the questioned thumb

impressions of Lekh Kaur, tallied with her standard thumb impressions.

Kartar Singh, PW2, who was the Reader, in the Court of Mr. D.K.

Sarpal, the then Sub Judge 1st Class, Malerkotla, stated that, he

obtained the thumb impression of Lekh Kaur, on the statement of RSA No. 1967 of 2008 21 admission. However, during the course of his cross-examination, he

stated, that he did not know her personally. Even Major Singh Tiwana,

Advocate, PW3, allegedly engaged, by Lekh Kaur, stated that, under-

neath her statement, existing, in the summoned file, the name of Ranjit

Singh Tiwana, Advocate, was written, by Kartar Singh, Reader. He

further stated that Ranjit Singh Tiwana, Advocate, was not the

Advocate of Lekh Kaur, in the earlier suit. This clearly goes to show,

that the entire transaction, was nothing, but fraudulent. Had Lekh Kaur,

engaged Major Singh Tiwana, Advocate, then her thumb impressions,

would have been, on the Vakalatnama, which were proved to be not her

by Dr. Atul Singla, Handwriting and Finger Prints Expert. Similarly,

had she appeared, in that suit, and filed written statement of admission,

her thumb impressions, would have been, in existence, upon the same.

Non- existence of her thumb impressions, clearly shows, that she never

appeared, in that suit. How her thumb impressions, were obtained on

the statement of admission, when her thumb impressions, were not on

the Vakalatnama and the written statement, is a matter, which remained

shrouded in complete mystery. The entire transaction was replete with

fraud. An old hapless lady, was defrauded of her property, by Nirmal

Singh, respondent No. 1, who was a practicing lawyer, at Malerkotla, at

the relevant time. Had the thumb impressions of Lekh Kaur, been on

the Vakalatnama, in favour of Major Singh Tiwana, Advocate, as also,

on the written statement, the matter would have been different. In the

light of the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, it can be RSA No. 1967 of 2008 22 safely held, that the decree dated 02.06.84, was the result of fraud,

which was played by Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, upon Lekh Kaur.

The Courts below, on account of misreading and misappreciation and

ignoring the material pieces of evidence, that the thumb impressions of

Lekh Kaur, did not exist, on the written statement, as also, on the

Vakalatnama, wrongly came to the conclusion, that the decree, was not

the result of fraud. The findings of the Courts below, in this regard,

being perverse, are liable to be set aside. 19. The next question, that arises for consideration is, as to

whether, the suit, was filed, within the period of limitation. Since it has

been held, that the decree, was obtained by Nirmal Singh, respondent

No. 1, by playing fraud upon Lekh Kaur, the period of limitation

started running, from the date, she came to know of the same. Fraud

vitiates all proceedings. Lekh Kaur, plaintiff, when appeared, as PW1,

stated that, she filed an application for partition, wherein, Nirmal

Singh, respondent No. 1, appeared and told her that, she was having no

title, in the property, in dispute. It was further stated by her that then

she came to know that he had obtained a decree dated 02.06.84, by

playing fraud upon her. In para No. 2 of the plaint, it was, in clear-cut

terms stated, that she filed a partition application, under Section 111 of

the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1987, in the Court of Assistant Collector

1st Grade, Malerkotla, for partition of the land. In that application,

Nirmal Singh, respondent No. 1, filed reply, on 06.11.98, wherein, he

disclosed himself to be the owner in possession of the property, in RSA No. 1967 of 2008 23 dispute, on the basis of judgement and decree dated 02.06.84, bearing

Civil Suit No. 142 of 07.04.84, titled as 'Nirmal Singh Vs. Lekh Kaur'.

In para No. 2 of the written statement, the factum of filing the partition

application, by Lekh Kaur, and filing of reply by Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, was admitted. It was, thus, on 06.11.98, that Lekh

Kaur, came to know about the fraud, having been played upon her.

Thereafter, on 16.11.98, she filed the suit. The suit, was, thus, well

within time. The Courts below, were, thus, wrong in coming to the

conclusion, that the suit, was barred by time. 20. The judgements and decrees of the Courts below, being not

based on the correct reading and due appreciation of evidence, as also

contrary to the settled position of law, suffer from illegality and

perversity, and are liable to be set aside. 21. The substantial questions of law, depicted above, are

answered, in favour of the appellant. 22. For the reasons recorded above, the appeal, is accepted with

costs throughout. The judgements and decrees of the Courts below,

are set aside. The suit of the plaintiff/appellant, for declaration, to the

effect, that she is the owner of 1/6 share, in the land, measuring 4

bighas 0 biswas 9 biswansis, comprising khata No. 7/29, khasra No.

162 min/0-14-4, khata No. 7/30, khasra No. 162min/1-0-0, 1234/164/0-

18-15, and 164/1/1-7-10, situated in the revenue estate of village

Manki, Tehsil Malerkotla, as fully detailed in the plaint, that the

judgement and decree dated 02.06.84, passed by the Court of Mr. D.K. RSA No. 1967 of 2008 24 Sarpal, the then Sub Judge 1st Class, Malerkotla, in Civil Suit No. 142

of 07.04.84, titled as 'Nirmal Singh Vs. Lekh Kaur', are illegal, void,

result of fraud, and inoperative, against the rights of the

plaintiff/appellant and, as such, liable to be set aside; that all the

subsequent entries, including the sanction of mutation, by the Revenue

Officers, in the revenue record, at the behest of Nirmal Singh,

respondent No. 1, on the basis of the said decree, are illegal, void, and

inoperative, against the rights of the plaintiff/appellant; for joint

possession, to the extent of 1/6 share, in the land, measuring 04 bighas

0 biswas 9 biswansis, as fully described, in the head-note of the plaint;

and for permanent injunction, restraining respondent No. 1, from

selling, mortgaging, gifting, changing or alienating, in any manner, the

land, in dispute, shall stand decreed. Decree sheet be prepared

accordingly.