1. This Notice of Motion has been taken out by the applicants, original defendant Nos. 3 and 4 and prayed as under: 2. By an order dated 24th January, 2006 in Chamber Summons No. 1391 of 2005 taken out by defendant Nos. 3 and 4 for revocation of leave granted by an order dated 24-4-20.04 under Clause XII of Letters Patent was dismissed and observed as under: 3. In view of this and as the submission are made in respect of prayer Clause (b) only, the matter proceeded accordingly. 4. The plaintiff and respondents have filed the present suit against defendants, basically for the damages on account of late delivery of the goods and also for additional losses incurred by the plaintiff because of revocation of contracts with the Chinese buyer. The respondents have raised claims against respective defendants separately as well as jointly. These prayer clauses of the plaint are as under: 5. The sequence of events that lead to filing of the suit are as under: THE RELEVANT PROVISION: THE REASONING: Fraud avoids all judicial acts. A decree obtained by playing fraud is a nullity and it can be challenged in any court, even in collateral proceedings. Therefore, if case is based on fraud, such issue can be agitated at any stage in any proceeding. The allegation of fraud, false and fabricated documents cannot be decided at this stage of the proceeding without due and proper evidence. If the present suit is based on the damages as alleged on foundation of fraud and forged documents, then such suit may be maintainable and it is not beyond period of limitation as per Entry 10 of Part II of the Schedule of the Limitation Act. The alleged false and fabricated bill of lading and its date 31st March, 2003 which plaintiff came to know on 21st April, 2003 is sufficient to save the bar of limitation. 32. The BOL is a memorandum signed by the owner or master of the shipper in which the goods are embarked acknowledging the receipt thereof, the condition of carrying and undertaking to deliver at the and of the voyage. It is a document of title and a mere assignment thereof to pass-the title of the assigner to the goods and also amounts to a constructive delivery of the same. It is usually issued by the carrier to the shipper. In the present case the Act and the Schedule thereto attracts as there was the BOL issued between the plaintiff and defendant Nos. 1 & 2. There was no specific bill of lading issued between plaintiff and defendant Nos. 3 & 4. 33. The bill of lading has three basic elements. 34. The BOL is an evidence to establish the fact that the goods were actually put on board and were received by the master of the ship. Therefore, unless proved otherwise the contents and details mentioned in the BOL is presumed to be true and correct. The BOL is a conclusive statement of a contract between shipper and ship owner, unless proved otherwise. In absence of fraud and mischief it is the evidence of contract. It may not be itself a conclusive contract between the parties. Therefore, it is also clear that the facts and circumstances of each case need to be scrutinised before arriving at any conclusion relating to the transaction based upon the bill of lading or such contract between the parties. 35. The Apex Court in the case of East & West Steamship Co. AIR 1960 SC 1058 (supra) has interpreted the unamended Sea Act and Schedule - Article III, Rule (6) in reference to the issue of limitation. We are concerned now in view of 28 of 1993 Amended Act . In view of the amended provision, if party agrees, the said period of limitation could be extended. However, it should not be later than three months. 36. The fraud unravels all. The law is very clear as laid down by the Apex Court that a party can bring out and or challenge any order of contract or benefit by any party by playing a fraud. The fraud committed by a third party also need to be considered on equal footing if connected with the transactions between the parties to the litigation or suit. Specially, the case in hand, where the wrong date on BOL, as alleged, caused great loss to the plaintiff. Considering the nature of the transaction based on a contract of sale of goods and thereafter the carriage of goods in such transaction by sea, this mode of transportation definitely has an international characteristics. The date of BOL is very important in such transactions. As this date of bill of lading connect the transaction and the parties in the contract of carriage, in the contract of sale, and in relation to the banks, as payment was made under the letter of credit. When the payment is arrange under a letter of credit, a correct date on the letter of credit is very important. In the present case, the date, as agreed is relevant for all the purposes for the issues. Therefore any such mistake or misdating cannot be overlooked. Apart from plaintiffs allegation of fraud as referred above , defendant No. 5 the Shipping Corporation of India Limited had taken out third party proceedings against defendant No. 1 and claimed that defendant No. 5 is entitled to claim an amount of USD 276704.14 from the plaintiff inter-alia on the ground that under the instructions of said third party, the goods were despatched with the Stamp "clean on board" and thus defendant No. 5 if made liable to pay the claim, plaintiff will be entitled to recover the said amount from the said third party. There was no reply, affidavit filed to the said third party notice. By an order dated 26th April, 2006, therefore a learned single Judge has observed that "the claim raised by defendant No. 5 can be determined only on the hearing of the said third party notice when the suit is heard". The third party notice was accordingly made absolute along with suit. The third party has been permitted to file written statement within a period of four weeks to the claim made by the 5th defendant. The issues raised by the third party should be determined at the hearing of the suit in accordance with the law. 37. The averments made in the said affidavit by defendant No. 5 has also foundation of criminal complaint dated 15th September, 2004 against defendant No. 1, and other Board of Directors of defendant No. 1 including other agents and officers for wrongful gain made by them. The criminal complaint has been under Section 420, 465, 467 and 468 r/w Section 120 (b) and Section 34 of the I.P.C. for wrongful gain. This facet also plays very important role in deciding the allegations of fraud as raised by the plaintiff, which has been duly endorsed by defendant No. 5. As these allegations of fraud are revolving around BOL in question between the parties and unless it is decided by due trial, I am not inclined to consider the case of defendant Nos. 3 & 4 as prayed in this Notice of Motion to dismiss the suit against them being barred by the law of limitation. It is very clear from the averments that plaintiffs' claim is not exclusively based on the issues covered by the BOL. The allegation of fraud and the damages as claimed, based on BOL, itself is the basic foundation of the fraud. It is true that plaintiffs need to prove the allegations of fraud. But considering the facts and circumstances in the present case, at this stage, without due enquiry and investigation and trial, the suit against defendant Nos. 3 & 4 cannot be dismissed on the ground of limitation. The fraudulent act of the parties to the transaction and or of the third parties vitiate and nullify the transaction, if proved. 38. The period of limitation under the Limitation Act 1963 as per Entry 10 of Part II of Schedule is three years and not one year. The suit is within limitation from the date of discovery of the fraud in question. In the present facts and circumstances of the case, the issues of limitation as raised by defendant Nos. 3 & 4 are mixed questions of fact and law and cannot be determined on the basis of such application without evidence and trial of the suit. Admittedly, defendant Nos. 3 & 4 have not filed written statement till this date. 39. The Apex Court in Gunwantbhai Mulhand Shah v. Entol Ellis Farel has observed that the question of limitation, if requires determination on the terms of agreement and the evidence produced by the parties, the dismissal of the suit as barred by limitation is not proper. In the present facts and circumstances of the case I am inclined to observe in the present matter also that all the issues arising in this matter including the issue of limitation need to be decided after giving the parties an opportunity to adduce evidence, in support of their respective case. 40. There is nothing on record to suggest that there was any agreement between the parties to extend said period of limitation after expiry of one year as contemplated under the amended Act and the schedule. But as provided, the agreement is necessary for an extension of period of limitation, at least for further three months and or not later than three months, this itself means the filing of such suit for damages within one year from the date of delivery of goods or from the proposed date of delivery has been extended for three months, in such a given case. All those cases referred above and cited by defendant Nos. 3 and 4 are based on the unamended provision of the Act. The amended provision now provides power to the parties to extend the period of limitation for further three months. This itself means that the terms of the bill of lading may not be extinguished the rights of the parties to file a suit even if not filed within one year after the date of delivery of the goods or from the date when goods should have been delivered. The parties can waive such rights. The parties can negotiate the transactions. The parties may agree orally or in writing or even by impliedly, to extend the period of limitation. Therefore, these aspects of agreement between the parties, cannot be decided at this stage of the proceeding. This needs evidence, material & trial. 41.In the present case based on the alleged back dated BOL in question, the plaintiff has suffered loss in view of unequivocal letter of indent/bank guarantee executed between the parties. The said BOL and the bank documents, resulted into release of payment to the defendant even though, the goods were not at all shipped as per original contract before 31st March, 2003. There was no intimation of any such consignment received by the plaintiff even by 7th April, 2003. The contract was terminated on 14th April, 2003. On 21st April, 2004 they received intimation about the consignment. The plaintiff, thereafter, found/discovered about said back dated BOL in question and therefore file the suit. These facts read with the allegations of fraud, as endorsed even by defendant No. 5, sufficient to discard the contention to dismiss the suit as barred by law of limitation. THE CONCLUSION: 42. The Apex Court in the case of Mayar (H.K.) Ltd. v. Owners & Parties, Vessel M.V. Fortune Express while considering the provisions of Section 2 of Schedule Article III(6) of the Act and Order VII, Rule 11A of C.P.C . observed as under: THE CONCLUSION: 43. In view of above observations of the Apex Court & in the facts and circumstances of the case, the averments made in the plaint read with the third party notice negotiated by respondent No. 5 and as the controversy revolver around the date of BOL, including the allegations of fraud and misrepresentation. I am not inclined to consider the contentions as raised by defendant Nos. 3 and 4 in support of their Notice of Motion and specifically prayer Clause (b) to dismiss the suit as barred by law. Therefore, considering the tenure and terms of the averments taken as a whole, the plaint cannot be dismissed by exercising power under Order VII, Rule 11 of C.P.C . Taking all these into account, present Notice of Motion is dismissed. 44. Defendant Nos. 3 and 4 are directed to file written statement within eight weeks from the receipt of copy of the order. 45. No order as to costs. 46. Parties to act on a copy authenticated by Associate of this Court.