Artificial intelligence (AI) will unlock new revenue streams for Paytm as the fintech company increasingly integrates the technology in its core business operations, said Founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma during the Q2FY26 earnings call .

“AI is a revenue line item. It brings newer service, newer business…phenomenally more number of things that we can do,” Sharma remarked.

He clarified that AI is not merely a cost-cutting tool for the company, but is also contributing in creating new products and services.

“We want to ensure that AI is a part of our business model as much as possible. Till now, we’ve been putting it into the cost side, efficiency side. Now, we are trying to build AI on the product side and feature side, which was not possible earlier,” said the CEO.

Sharma further stated that the company is building AI agents for merchants, which will serve as digital “chief operating officer, chief finance officer, or chief marketing officer” for smaller businesses. “Typically, large enterprises get third-party companies like Snowflake or Accenture. We plan to do it for small businesses in the country,” he said.

The Paytm founder also pointed out that the company is already piloting AI-based subscription services for merchants, with plans to later expand it into an “AI commerce cloud” line item in its financial reporting. “We do believe that one year forward, there should be a commerce cloud line item. The cloud element could be the AI element that will start to go back once again,” he said.

Further, Sharma expects that Paytm Soundbox will evolve into a smart and interactive device in the future. “I’ve been saying this, Soundbox will sound like a feature phone some days later. I mean, this will be like a smartphone,” Paytm’s Founder said during the Q2FY26 call.

Interestingly, the CEO also revealed that Paytm is internally testing some AI products that it plans to roll out to larger businesses, mid-sized retailers, or even e-commerce companies like Flipkart and Swiggy in the coming quarters.

The CEO’s remarks came after Paytm reported a 24% year-on-year (YoY) in its operating revenue to Rs 2,061 crore in Q2FY26, helped by an increase in merchant subscriptions, higher payments gross merchandise value (GMV), and robust growth in financial services distribution.

Despite an uptick in its top line, the company reported a sharp 98% YoY drop in its consolidated net profit to Rs 21 crore during the quarter, mainly due to a one-time exceptional loss of Rs 190 crore incurred on account of its gaming joint venture First Games Technology.

In its earnings release , Paytm said that its indirect expenses (including ESOP costs) were down materially in Q2FY26, primarily on account of AI-led efficiency. These costs, comprising marketing expenses and cloud and software expenses, among others, decreased 18% YoY to Rs 1,064 crore during the quarter under review.

Besides announcing its Q2 results, Paytm said it has teamed up with US-based AI company Groq to build high-performance AI models that will enhance transaction processing, risk assessment, fraud detection, and customer engagement across its payments and financial services ecosystem.

As per an exchange filing , Paytm and its associate entities will deploy GroqCloud to bring fast, more cost-efficient and scalable AI inference to its platform compared to conventional GPU-based systems.

Commenting on the move, Narendra Singh Yadav, Chief Business Officer (CBO) at Paytm, said, “We have been steadily advancing our AI capabilities to make payments faster, more reliable, and deeply intelligent.”

“This collaboration with Groq strengthens our technology foundation by enabling real-time AI inference at scale. [And] it marks another step in our journey to build India’s most advanced AI-driven payment and financial services platforms.”

Notably, Paytm has been betting big on AI for quite some time now while increasingly adopting the technology across various business verticals. For instance, last month, Paytm’s wealth tech arm Paytm Money partnered with JioBlackRock to launch a new AI-powered active equity fund.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event