1. Since complainant and the accused in both the matters are
same, with the consent of learned advocates for the respective
parties, both the matters are decided analogously. 2. By way of filing Criminal Misc. Application No.15704 of
2022 u/s 439(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in
short "the Code"), the petitioner - original complainant Nirmil
Shah prays to cancel the anticipatory bail granted to accused
Karan Devendrabhai Rabari and Arjun Devendrabhai Rabari in
Criminal Misc. Application No.2112 of 2022 by the learned
Sessions Court. Whereas, by way of filing Criminal Misc.
Application No.8424 of 2023, the petitioner complainant seeks
cancellation of anticipatory bail granted to accused Karan
Devendrabhai Rabari in Criminal Misc. Application No.1214 of
2023 by the learned Sessions Court. 3. The above reliefs are claimed by the petitioner -
complainant in background of the facts stated herein below:- Under such circumstances, the applicant was constrained to
issue a public notice in the newspapers cautioning general
public about the applicant's lack of involvement in her alleged. 3.6. In addition, thereto, there were certain allegations against
Mrs. Niyati that she or the intermediary with whom she was
working had allegedly issued 10 fake certificates for English
Speaking Language course on behalf of Trinity College, London.
On the basis of such allegations, Trinity College lodged a
complaint against Mrs.Niyati. However, the aforementioned
complaint on account of the intervention of the applicant on
account of the applicant explaining to the representatives of the
complainant that Mrs.Niyati had certain psychological disorder
and on account of the consent of the complainant, came to be
quashed by the High Court of Gujarat. Under such
circumstances, the applicant has always protected Mrs.Niyati.
After birth of second child, the applicant realized that Mrs.
Niyati's behaviour was not normal and all experts have
associated her behaviour with psychological disorder. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

3.7. The applicant was shocked to receive a call from the
administrative team of Glade One who inquired why the name of
the opponent-accused-original accused persons was being
reflected in the revenue record of the said property more.
particularly in Village form No. 7 and 12. The applicant firstly
thought it must be an error but, to be entirely sure, the
applicant immediately asked the administrative team to send the
document to him over WhatsApp. Accordingly, the same were
sent over the applicant over WhatsApp and a perusal of the same
reflected two entries: first being the entry of the sale deed as
executed in favor of the applicant and second being an entry of
sale of the said property in favor of the opponent-accused The
applicant upon looking at the Village Forms was shocked beyond
imagination since, the applicant had never made any application
for mutating the revenue record for his own sale and had never
entered into any transaction of sale for the said Property in favor
of any entity or individual whatsoever. 3.8. However, the applicant despite having seen the revenue
record as sent over WhatsApp, the applicant continued to believe
that the same had to be an error and accordingly applied for a
certified copy of the sale deed which was allegedly executed in
favor of the opponent- accused. The applicant upon looking at
the sale deed was shocked beyond imagination since, the sale
deed dated 13.12.2018 was in connection with the said property
and was allegedly executed by Mrs.Niyati as the Power of
Attorney of the applicant. However, in reality the applicant had
never executed any Power of Attorney in favor of any entity or Page 6 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

individual not even Mrs.Niyati. Moreover, the sale deed also
reflected that Mrs.Niyati had allegedly accepted a sum of Rs.
40,00,000 (Rupees Forty Lac) being the sale consideration of the
said property in her own account. However, the applicant had
never authorized any person not even Mrs.Niyati to accept any
sale consideration in connection with the said property.
Moreover, the same also reflected that the said property before
Its sale was occupied by a tenant namely Dashrath Vaghela.
However, such fact is absolutely incorrect since, the said
property was and is continues to be absolutely owned and
occupied by the applicant since its purchase by the applicant.
Moreover, the Sale Deed also reflected that the applicant had
executed an agreement to sell dated 14.11.2018 in connection
with the said property. However, such fact is also incorrect since,
the applicant has never executed any Agreement to Sell in
connection with the said property in favor of any individual
whatsoever. 3.9. Accordingly, the applicant immediately went home and
confronted Mrs.Niyati in connection with the aforementioned
transaction. In response initially Mrs.Niyati pretended not to
have any knowledge about the aforementioned transaction but,
after much persuasion, she shared certain details in connection
with the aforementioned sale deed. From the basic details as
shared by her and keeping in mind her past conduct which Is
associated with her psychological disorder, it is plausible that
that Mrs.Niyati was introduced to the accused persons by one
Dimple Chaudhary and Pursuant to such introduction Mrs.
Niyati might have entered Into some sort of financial transaction Page 7 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

with the opponent-accused. Moreover, with a view to illegally
secure such transaction, Mrs.Niyati could have been compelled
to give detail of the said Property to the opponent. After knowing
the said property, the opponents accused seems to have forged
and fabricated certain deeds and documents in connection with
the said property including a Power of Attorney of the applicant
for which the photographs and identity proof of the applicant
and his family members that were readily accessible by Mrs.
Niyati were called for by the opponent-accused, Further, It seems
that Mrs.Niyati without any authority, right, title or interest was
made to sign certain deeds and documents in connection with
the said property Including a Sale Deed and since such
fraudulent Sale Deed was drafted as the instance of the
opponent-accused in Gujarati language in which Mrs.Niyati is
not proficient, she seems to have been misled into believing that
she was simply signing a document in order to secure the
purported financial transaction as entered into by and between
her and the opponent-accused. Moreover, the daughter has
confirmed that she has never visited any Notary Public and
hence, it seems that signature of Malaika was obtained on a
blank paper and used in order to forge and fabricate a Power of
Attorney which were illegally notarized in her absence. Moreover,
from the facts as narrated by Mrs.Niyati it seems that the
opponent- accused and Dimple Chaudhary opened two bank
accounts of Mrs.Niyati one with Gujarat State Co- Operative
Bank, Paldi Branch and another with Ahmedabad District Co-
Operative Bank, Sharda Mandir Branch and deposited the
money in such bank accounts with a view to mislead authorities
and third parties into believing that the Sale Deed was genuine Page 8 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

when in reality the same was completely bogus and sham.
Moreover, even the aforementioned amounts allegedly deposited
into the aforementioned bank accounts were completely
withdrawn by the opponent-accused and his co-conspirators as
narrated in detail in the following paragraph. However, despite
all the aforementioned facts and circumstances, It is absolutely
clear that the applicant has never authorized any entity
individual to act as his Power of Attorney in order to undertake
any transaction in connection with the said property. However,
from the facts that are available as on date it is evident that the
sale deed executed in favor of the opponent-accused is entirely
based upon a forged power of attorney and is clearly an act of
fraud. 3.10. The alleged power of attorney which is given by the
applicant to his wife and on the basis of which disputed sale
deed is executed, contains forged and fabricated signature of the
applicant. The entire transaction was nothing but fraud. 3.11. The applicant was constrained to prefer Special Civil Suit
No.31 of 2022 before the learned Civil Court, Sanand. The
applicant also preferred application seeking injunction and
appointment of Court commissioner. The learned Trial Court by
order dated 20.04.2022 was pleased to not grant any ex-parte
injunction to the applicant and issued notice to the accused.
The applicant challenged the order not granting ex-parte
injunction to the applicant by way of Appeal from Order No.100
of 2021 before this Court seeking interim protection. During the
pendency of suit and Appeal from Order, as per order of learned Page 9 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

Trial Court, accused was served with copy of notice on
23.04.2022 and was made aware of the proceedings initiated in
order to protect possession of the property in question. 3.12. However, on 25.04.2022 at around 5:30 AM, the opponent-
accused-accused persons with around 50 people attempted to
barge into the said property and attempted to forcibly evict the
applicant and his security personnel from the said property.
Moreover, the opponent-accused and their associates even
snatched the bag of the applicant containing some cash, the
applicant's mobile charger and important documents in
connection with the said property. 3.13. Under such circumstances, immediately called the police
control room who sent two police officers to the said property.
However, the aforementioned officers claimed that the said
property was within the jurisdiction of Changodar Police Station
and directed the applicant to approach Changodar Police Station
to register the complaint. 3.14. The applicant filed two complaint to the police officer, on
with regard to registration of offence for criminal trespass and
other with regard to registration of offence of cheating and
forgery. The police registered one FIR being I-
C.R.No.11192015220351 of 2022 for criminal trespass and not
registered FIR for cheating and forgery. 3.15. The accused preferred application under section 438 of
Cr.P.C. for anticipatory bail before the Sessions Court, Page 10 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

Ahmedabad (Rural) being Cr.M.A.No.2112 of 2022. Learned
Sessions Court, Ahmedabad (Rural) vide order dated 22.07.2022
granted anticipatory bail to the respondents - accused. Hence,
Criminal Misc. Application No.15704 of 2022 is preferred. 3.16. Thereafter, FSL report was received by the police which
clearly indicates that alleged signature of the applicant in the
power of attorney are forged and fabricated. Therefore, FIR being
I-C.R.No.11192015220529 of 2022 was registered against
opponent no.2 - Karan Rabari. Opponent no.2 preferred
Criminal Misc. Application No.3525 of 2022 before the learned
Sessions Court, Ahmedabad for anticipatory bail. Same was
rejected vide order dated 14.12.2022. Opponent no.2 has not
approached this Court for grant of anticipatory bail, but filed
application under section 482 of Cr.P.C. seeking to quash the
FIR being Special Criminal Application No.12774 of 2022, in
which this Court has issued notice and no protection is granted.
Thereafter, other two accused viz. Niyatiben and Hemalben
Parmar got anticipatory bail. Thereafter, opponent no.2 - Karan
Rabari has preferred successive bail application being
Cr.M.A.No.1214 of 2023 before the learned Sessions Court,
Ahmedabad and vide order dated 13.04.2023, learned Sessions
Court, Ahmedabad has granted anticipatory bail to opponent
no.2 - Karan Rabari. Hence, Criminal Misc. Application No.8424
of 2023 is preferred. 4. Heard learned Senior Counsel Mr. Shalin Mehta assisted
by learned advocate Mr. Dipan Desai for the petitioner -
complainant, learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt assisted by Page 11 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

learned advocates Mr. Kishan Chakwawala, Mr. Manan Doshi
and Mr.Siddharth Desai for the respondent accused and learned
APP Mr. HK Patel for the State. 5. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Shalin Mehta appearing for
the petitioner - complainant would submit that the learned court
below has committed serious error in granting anticipatory bail
in successive bail application. He would further submit that the
learned Sessions Court had no jurisdiction to review its earlier
order in absence of change of circumstances while dealing with
successive bail application. He would further submit that the
accused Karan Devendra Rabari had initially filed Criminal Misc.
Application No.3525 of 2022, before the learned Sessions Court
for getting anticipatory bail. This application came to be rejected
by the learned Sessions Court on 14.12.2022. Yet within short
span of three and half months, the accused Karan Devendra
Rabari has filed another anticipatory bail application before the
learned Sessions Court pleading that the anticipatory bail or
regular bail are granted to other accused involved in the offence
and therefore, on the ground of doctrine of parity successive bail
application is maintainable. He would further submit that the
learned sessions judge has also erred in believing that there was
a change of circumstances as some other accused have been
subsequently admitted to bail. He would further submit that
merely granting of bail to some other accused cannot be
considered as change of circumstances. The successive bail
application in these circumstances was not less than the
application to review its earlier order. He would further submit
that the order passed in Criminal Misc. Application No.3525 of Page 12 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

2022 denying the anticipatory bail has not been challenged
before the High Court by accused Karan Devendra Rabari and
yet, the learned Sessions Judge has reviewed its earlier order
and granted anticipatory bail, principally on applying doctrine of
parity to the accused and thereby, the learned Sessions Judge
has committed serious error in granting anticipatory bail. 5.1. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Shalin Mehta, referring to
judgment in case of GR Ananda Babu vs. State of Tamilnadu reported in 2021(16) SCC 725 to contend that in absence of
change of circumstances, the court should restrain itself from
entertaining the successive anticipatory bail application. He
would refer following observations made by the Hon'ble Apex
Court :- 5.2. Another judgment, which pressed into service by the
learned Senior Counsel Mr. Shalin Mehta is the judgment of the
Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Mohammed Shamim Khan Vs.
State of Jharkhand rendered in SLP (Cr.) No.9449 of 2021 to
contend the same submission. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

5.3. Yet, another judgment which pressed into service is in case
of M/s Gati Limited versus T Nagarajan and others rendered in
Criminal Appeal No.870 of 2019. 5.4. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Shalin Mehta would further
submit that a typical modus operendi has been adopted in the
present case. The accused Karan Devendra Rabari has preferred
anticipatory bail application but did not succeed in getting the
same. He did not choose to challenge the same order before the
High Court, but waited for the other accused to get the bail.
Once other accused got the bail, he again approached the court
below on the ground of parity and filed successive bail
application and got the anticipatory bail, but entertaining of
successive bail application itself under typical modus operandi is
not less than entertaining the successive application without
having any change of circumstances. He would further submit
that role of the accused was totally examined when the first
anticipatory application was rejected by the concerned Court,
but in successive bail application ignoring this aspect, learned
Sessions Court has granted anticipatory bail on the ground that
other accused have been given bail. He would further submit
that once role of the accused in the offence is examined and
anticipatory bail was rejected, that decision cannot be reviewed
and changed on aspect that co-accused have been granted bail
subsequently. Therefore, principle of parity could not apply, but
the learned sessions judge has erred applying same in granting
the anticipatory bail. 5.5. Taking this court through the facts of the case, learned Page 14 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

Senior Counsel Mr. Shalin Mehta submitted that the immovable
property which was purchased by the petitioner for value of more
than ₹1,00,00,000 on 3.8.2018 is seize hold of by the accused1,00,00,000 on 3.8.2018 is seize hold of by the accused
Karan Devendra Rabari, taking advantage of the unfit to take
decision condition of the wife of the petitioner by forging the
power of attorney of the petitioner - complainant, at the meager
amount of ₹1,00,00,000 on 3.8.2018 is seize hold of by the accused 40 lakhs. This deed was executed on 18.12.2018,
precisely four months after the petitioner - complainant has
purchased the property at ₹1,00,00,000 on 3.8.2018 is seize hold of by the accused1,02,72,400. The mental condition of
the petitioner wife is disturbed. the accused has lent some
money and then forged the power of attorney of the petitioner -
complainant and got executed the sale deed in his favour which
prima facie indicates that the respondent / accused are involved
in the commission of the offence of sections 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120B of the IPC. He would further submit that the immovable
properties located in prime location have been a persistent issue
involved in fraudulent practice and illegal activity related to
taking away immovable property where it is witnessed that a
scammer offered concocted and fake land title, forged sale deed
etc. The present case is part of such persisting issue. Referring
to the judgment of Pratibha Manchanda and another Vs. State of
Haryana and another reported in (2023) 8 SCC 181, learned
Senior Counsel, Mr. Shalin Mehta would submit that scammer
should not be given extraordinary relief of anticipatory bail. Para
16, 17, 18, 19 and 25 of the judgment are referred, which reads
as under:- 18. In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2018) 7 SCC
 731 the Constitution Bench reaffirmed that when considering
 applications for anticipatory bail, courts should consider factors
 such as the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed
 to the applicant, and the specific facts of the case. 19. The relief of Anticipatory Bail is aimed at safeguarding
 individual rights. While it serves as a crucial tool to prevent the
 misuse of the power of arrest and protects innocent individuals
 from harassment, it also presents challenges in maintaining a
 delicate balance between individual rights and the interests of
 justice. The tight rope we must walk lies in striking a balance
 between safeguarding individual rights and protecting public
 interest. While the right to liberty and presumption of innocence
 are vital, the court must also consider the gravity of the offence,
 the impact on society, and the need for a fair and free
 investigation. The court's discretion in weighing these interests in
 the facts and circumstances of each individual case becomes
 crucial to ensure a just outcome. 25. Land scams in India have been a persistent issue, involving
 fraudulent practices and illegal activities related to land
 acquisition, ownership, and transactions. Scammers often create
 fake land titles, forge sale deeds, or manipulate land records to
 show false ownership or an encumbrance-free status. Organized
 criminal networks often plan and execute these intricate scams,
 exploiting vulnerable individuals and communities, and resorting
 to intimidation or threats to force them to vacate their properties. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 These land scams not only result in financial losses for
 individuals and investors but also disrupt development projects,
 erode public trust, and hinder socio-economic progress." 5.6. Learned senior Counsel, Mr. Shalin Mehta would submit
that another typical modus operendi adopted by the accused is
to get away from the criminal prosecution, shelter of the civil
litigation, filed between the parties has been taken. He would
further submit that in given set of facts, civil wrong, as well as
criminal offences may also arise and in the given facts and
circumstances, only because the parties have also resorted to
civil remedy or civil remedy may be available to the party by itself
cannot be considered as ground to grant anticipatory bail and
that too in successive anticipatory bail application. He would
further submit that in these circumstances, the court is required
to adopt real test principle to find out that whether any
complaint discloses the criminal offence or not. In support of his
submission, learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Shalin Mehta has
referred to and relied upon the judgment in case of Vesa
Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Kerala reported in 2015(8) SCC
293, more particularly, para 9 thereof, which reads as under:- 5.7. In addition to above learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Shalin
Mehta would submit that the present petitioner is 'absconding'
that is what exactly observed by the coordinate bench in order of
Criminal Misc. Application No.15574 of 2023 and further
contended that in a Criminal Case No.3438 of 2023, which is a
subject matter of Criminal Misc. Application No.15704 of 2023,
the concerned trial court has issued non-bailable warrant
against the accused under section 70 of the Cr.P.C., which by
itself indicates that the accused is running away and has
misused personal liberty. It is submitted that accused is
continuously involved in the offence. Another FIR being C.R.No.
11191048230463 of 2023 is registered with Sarkhej Police
Station for the offence under sections 406 , 420 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120(B) of IPC against the respondent accused.
Anticipatory bail asked in said offence is rejected by Co-ordinate
Bench. So it indicates that the accused is absconding and is not
extending any help in investigating the offence. It is submitted to
allow the petition and to cancel the anticipatory bail granted to
the accused. 5.8. Lastly, it is submitted by learned Senior Counsel, Mr.
Shalin Mehta that the learned trial court while granting
anticipatory bail to the accused has ignored the antecedents
registered against the accused. There are multiple antecedents
registered against the accused. However, no discussion about
the antecedents are made in the impugned orders by the learned
trial court and therefore, the impugned orders passed by the Page 18 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

learned trial court are erroneous, unjust and against the settled
principles of law and requires to be set aside. 5.9. In addition to the above judgments, learned Senior
Counsel, Mr. Shalin Mehta also referred to and relied upon
following judgments to buttress his submission. 1. Ganesh Raj Vs. State of Rajasthan of Rajasthan High Court reported in 2005 CrLJ 2086 (FB) 2. Kerala High Court judgment in case of Bipin Sunny
 Vs State of Kerala reported in 2023 SCC Online Ker 5570 3. Gujarat High Court judgment in case of Arun
 Ghisalal Verma vs. State of Gujarat reported in 2011 SCC
 Online Guj 6224 4. Ravindrakumar Madhanlal Goenka Vs. Rugmini Ram
 Raghav Spinners Pvt. Ltd. reported in 2009(11) SCC 529 5. Secundrabad Club Etc. Vs. CIT v ETC reported in
 2023(0) JX (SC) 774 6. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Meena Variyal reported in 2007(5) SCC 428. 6. On the other hand, learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt
appearing for the respondent accused would submit that the
present petitions are filed to settle the personal score. He would
further submit that the complainant who is running behind the
accused at every stage has filed this petitions with oblique
motive. He would further submit that the complainant who has
failed to achieve anything in his favour in a civil suit, by way of
this criminal proceedings, he is trying to explore the possibility
to achieve his purpose. He would further submit that along with Page 19 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

multiple FIR, the complainant has also filed civil suit No.31 of
2022 for the disputed property on 20.4.2022. The concerned
civil court has issued notice, the same has been challenged by
way of AO before this court being No.100 of 2022. The court
commission was undertaken and according to which the accused
were found in possession of the disputed property. This report
has been taken on record and subsequently the court has
passed the status quo order below Exh.12 in the civil suit. The
order of the status quo is also challenged by way of AO No.107 of
2022 before this court, but in the same matter or in the earlier
AO, the complainant has failed to get anything in his favour. 6.1. Learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt would submit that
two civil suits being Nos.208 of 2022 and 209 of 2022 for the
property situated at Makarba were filed by the accused and they
are also pending. Subsequently, FIR being I-
C.R.No.1119201520351 of 2022 came to be filed. He would
further submit that another application was filed in the civil suit
at Exh.31 being restoration application. He would further submit
that the petitioner failed to get any relief in either of the
applications in Civil Suit in his favour. Meanwhile, anticipatory
bail application was filed but it was decided against the accused.
But when the bail was granted to the wife of the petitioner, the
same has called as a base and parity for filing second successive
application before the learned sessions judge and which came to
be allowed. Learned advocate Mr.Bhatt thus submitted that no
error has been committed by learned Sessions Judge. It was
change of circumstances, which rightly has been considered by
the learned Sessions Court. For the said proposition, he has
referred to and relied upon judgment in case of Babu Singh Vs. Page 20 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

the State of U.P. reported in 1978 AIR SC 527. He would further
submit that the learned judge has not committed any illegality in
granting anticipatory bail to the accused in successive bail
application. 6.2. Learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt would submit that
the FIR is designed against the accused. Though the wife of the
petitioner, complainant was the main culprit, she was not joined
in the FIR, but later on, she was joined by the police during the
investigation. The wife of the petitioner was the main culprit, and
yet she had been given the bail by the court and therefore on the
ground of parity, and considering the change of circumstances,
successive bail application was moved by the accused and it was
rightly granted by the learned Sessions Court. In so far as
principle of parity to be extended to the co-accused is concerned,
learned advocate, Mr. Bhargav Bhatt referred and relied upon
judgment of this court in case of Rameshbhai Dhabi Vs. State of
Gujarat rendered in Criminal Misc. Application No.1475 of 2011;
in case of Somabhai Nadoda Vs. State of Gujarat rendered in
Criminal Misc. Application No.647 of 2021 and other allied
matters, so also in case of Vikram Gautam Vs State of Gujarat delivered in Criminal Misc. Application No.22437 of 2017. He
would further submit that on perusal of the order, it indicates
that the learned sessions court has applied the principle of
parity as the other co-accused has got the regular or anticipatory
bail in the offence, and in this changed circumstances, the
accused has also applied for anticipatory bail and got it. No
illegality or irrelevant aspect surface on record. No error has
been committed by learned Sessions Court. Successive bail
application on the ground of parity was maintainable and can be Page 21 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

allowed as well. They are tenable grounds. 6.3. Learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt would submit that
there is no absolute bar in filing the successive bail applications
as principle of res judicata does not attract in the matter of bail
applications. Referring to the judgment of the Hon'ble Apex
Court in case of Rani Dudeja v/s. State of Haryana rendered in
Criminal Appeal No.615 of 2017, learned advocate Mr Bhargav
would submit that on changed circumstances, when another
application under section 438 of the Code is filed, the court
should consider the same on merits. The principle of res judicata
could not and should not be attracted in application for bail. 6.4. Learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt would submit that
considering the entire record of the case, it appears that the
complainant in connivance with the police officer is running
behind the accused. The accused who has been enlarged on
anticipatory bail by the impugned orders, was subjected to the
police remand, as has been granted by the learned trial court
and modified by this court, was beaten mercilessly during the
remand proceedings; his bones were broken. A complaint was
also filed in this regard and inquiry is initiated. He would further
submit that the complainant as well as the police officers are
behind the accused and at any cost, they want accused behind
bar. He would further submit that the personal liberty of the
accused is sacrosanct He would further submit that article 21 of
the Constitution of India envelope that no person shall be
deprived of his right or personal liberty, except according to the
procedure established by law. Referring to the judgment of the
Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Sundeep Kumar Bafna Vs. State of Page 22 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

Maharashtra [2014 (16) SCC 623], learned advocate Mr. Bhatt
would submit that personal liberty of the accused is to be
countenanced. Rerunning his argument learned advocate
Mr.Bhatt would submit that complainant who failed to achieve
his purpose in civil litigation or even during police remand,
intends to carry off by putting personal liberty of the accused at
stake and peril. 6.5. Another submission canvassed by learned advocate Mr.
Bhargav Bhatt is that the Court is legally restrained from
appreciating the evidence considered by the Court below while
granting the anticipatory bail. He would further submit that
cancellation of bail is a harsh order, because it deals and takes
away the liberty of an individual who has been granted bail. He
would further submit that rejecting the bail at the first instance
is one aspect and cancelling the bail is a different aspect. A
person seeking relief of cancellation of bail has to establish that
the order granting bail is totally unjustified, illegal, perverse and
against the settled principles of law. In this proposition, he has
referred to the judgment in case of Qatar Chemical And
Petrochemical Marketing And Distribution Company
(MUNTAJAT) Qjsc Vs. State of Gujarat rendered in Criminal
Misc. Application No 25240 of 2017, more particularly, para 20,
24 and 27 thereof. 6.6. Learned advocate Mr Bhargav Bhatt would submit that in
the present case, civil dispute has been given cloak of the
criminal litigation. Both the parties have resorted to civil
litigation prior in point of time that is before filing of the FIR.
Once the petitioner complainant failed to get any relief in the Page 23 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

civil matter in his favour, he has resorted to the criminal
litigation. Referring to the judgment in case of R. Nagender
Yadav Vs. the State of Telangana reported in 2022 Livelaw (SC)
1030, he contended that when the dispute is of civil nature and
given the colour of criminal offence, the court should quash the
criminal proceedings to prevent the abuse of process of law. He
would further submit that the complaint filed against the
present respondent is not less than the abuse of process of law.
Therefore, he submitted that considering that aspect successive
anticipatory bail application rightly has been granted by the
learned trial Court. It is just and correct order and should not be
disturbed by this court. 6.7. Learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt would submit that
the complainant who is mastermind behind the entire litigation,
saved his daughter and wife firstly and got the orders in their
favour and now contend that the wife is unfit to take decision
and put burden on the accused, alleging that the accused have
forged the power of attorney of the petitioner / complainant and
brand them as main culprit. He would further submit that the
petitioner has elected to cancel the bail of the present petitioner
only, he has not chosen to file cancellation of bail against his
wife or daughter. Thus, it appears that the petitioner
complainant has adopted pick and choose policy to pressurise
the accused to settle the issue. 6.8. Learned advocate Mr Bhargav Bhatt would submit that
when the anticipatory bail was granted to the petitioner, no NBW
was issued against the petitioner and therefore issue of NBW
subsequent thereto cannot be countenanced to decide the Page 24 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

legality or validity of the bail granted to the accused. Therefore,
he submits that there is no substance in the argument that NBW
was issued against the accused and the accused were
absconding could not be granted anticipatory bail. He would
further submit that the accused has already undergone
custodial interrogation as police remand was given by the court
below after he was released on anticipatory bail and therefore
there is no need to again interrogate the accused in custody or
the custodial integration is not required. 6.9. Lastly, learned advocate Mr. Bhargav Bhatt would submit
that no court has declared the accused as absconding and
therefore, merely issuance of the non-bailable warrant could not
in any way favour the petitioner complainant to seek to cancel
the bail of the accused. 6.10. Upon above submissions, learned advocate, Mr Bhargav
Bhatt requests to dismiss these petitions. 6.11. Learned advocate Mr.Bhatt has relied upon following
authorities in support of his submissions. 7. Underscoring the submissions made by learned Senior
Counsel Mr Shalin Mehta, learned APP appearing for the State
submit that the accused has made wild but baseless allegation
against the police to achieve his purpose. He would further
submit that upon wild and baseless allegations levelled by the
accused against police officer, criminal inquiry is initiated by
learned Court below. Upon the order of the Court below, the
police has conducted inquiry and collected the evidence and
placed it before the court to contend that there is no substance
in the allegation levelled against the police officers. He would
further submit that in the enquiry proceedings, the respondent
accused is not remaining present to proceed further. So it is the
routine of the accused that whenever he is arrested, he is
making such type of allegation to prevent the police machinery Page 26 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

from investigating the offence in its true perspective. The
accused is habitual in commission of the offence. There are
multiple offences registered against the accused. He would
further submit that in the present case there is concrete
evidence on record. The FSL report indicates that the signature
of the petitioner / complainant on the power of attorney is not
belonging to the him but it is a forged one. 7.1. Learned APP would submit that, if fact of the case is taken,
immovable property being bungalow, valued for more than Rs.1
Crore purchased by complainant has been taken away by the
accused, forging signature of the complainant on power of
attorney, taking advantage of unfit condition of the wife of
complainant to take decision. Accused has lent some money and
than at meager price of Rs.40 lakhs has taken away bunglow by
executing sale deed upon forged power of attorney. He would
further submit that complainant had purchased bunglow three
to four months back at price of more than Rs. 1 Crore, but it is
carried off at price of Rs.40 lakhs. Learned APP also placed on
record the report given by the Changodar Police Station to
contend that the accused is running away and therefore NBW
has been issued by the court below against the accused. Upon
such submissions, learned APP submits to allow these petitions
and to cancel anticipatory bail granted to the accused. 8. Having heard learned advocates for all the parties, at the
outset, the first question that requires to be considered is
whether the second successive anticipatory bail application after
rejection of first is maintainable or not. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined 9. It is to be understood that power to grant anticipatory bail
does not flow from Article 21 of the Constitution of India, but
conferred by the Statute enacted by the Parliament by making in Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 and by enacting special law
may take it away also. Section 438 of Cr.P.C. was not existing
but later on Parliament has introduced it, by enactment. The
Law Commission in its 48th report observed thus:- 10. It is thus evident that the Law Commission intended that
the provisions of anticipatory bail should not be put to abuse at
the instance of unscrupulous petitioners and this extraordinary
remedy has to be resorted to only in exceptional cases. 11. At this juncture, let refer section 438 of the Code. section (1), it shall forthwith cause a notice being not less
 than seven days notice, together with a copy of such order
 to be served on the Public Prosecutor and the
 Superintendent of Police, with a view to give the Public
 Prosecutor a reasonable opportunity of being heard when
 the application shall be finally heard by the Court.
 (1B) The presence of the applicant seeking anticipatory bail
 shall be obligatory at the time of final hearing of the
 application and passing of final order by the Court, if on an
 application made to it by the Public Prosecutor, the Court
 considers such presence necessary in the interest of
 justice.]
 (2) When the High Court or the Court of Session makes a
 direction under sub-section (1), it may include such
 conditions in such directions in the light of the facts of the
 particular case, as it may thinks fit, including - (i) a condition that the person shall make himself
 available for interrogation by a police officer as and
 when required; (ii) a condition that the person shall not, directly or
 indirectly, make any inducement, threat or promise
 to any person acquainted with the facts of the case
 so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to
 the Court or to any police officer; (iii) a condition that the person shall not leave India
 without the previous permission of the Court; (iv) such other condition as may be imposed under
 sub-section (3) of section 437 , as if the bail were
 granted under that section. (3) If such person is thereafter arrested without warrant by
 an officer in charge of a police station on such accusation,
 and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time
 while in the custody of such officer to give bail, he shall be
 released on bail, and if a Magistrate taking cognizance of
 such offence decides that a warrant should issue in the
 first instance against that person, he shall issue a bailable
 warrant in conformity with the direction of the Court under
 sub-section (1). NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 174 "(4) Nothing in this section shall apply to any case
 involving the arrest of any person on accusation of having
 committed an offence under sub-section (3) of section 376 or section 376AB or section 376DA or section 376DB of the
 Indian Penal Code.". 12. A close look to Section 438 Cr. P.C. demonstrates that
grant of anticipatory bail is a matter of judicial discretion and
the court must be satisfied that a fit case had been made out by
accused for exercise of such discretion. The court has to make
an effort to strike a balance between the individual's right to
personal freedom and the investigational rights of the police. The
provisions of Section 438 Cr. P.C. are not to be applied
mechanically. The phraseology "if it thinks fit" available in the
body of the section reading with section 438(2) of the Cr.P.C. is
indicative enough that such order on the face of it must show
the reasons for granting anticipatory bail. 13. From the language of Section 438 of Cr.P.C., it becomes
explicitly clear that the Legislature intended to bring
'anticipatory bail' within the category of 'bail'. There is no
substantial difference between Section 438 and 439 , as regards
the appreciation of the case as to whether or not a bail is to be
granted. The only distinction is that in a case under Section 438 ,
the person who approaches the court apprehends that he may
be arrested without any basis whereas under Section 439 , such
person approaches the court after his arrest. As stated herein
above, the power to grant anticipatory bail does not flow from Article 21 of the Constitution but it has been conferred by the
statute enacted by the Parliament. If bail application of the
accused under Section 439 is dismissed once he can move Page 30 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

successive bail application if there is a substantial change in
factual situation between the earlier bail application and the
subsequent one, but successive bail application on the basis of
new arguments and new twists on same facts and facade should
not be encouraged. Section 438 of Cr.P.C. does not presuppose
any change in this legal situation and once application under Section 438 is denuded and pre-arrest bail is denied to the
accused, he is not at liberty to successive bail applications
except pleading and establishing change of circumstances. 14. All above discussion would lead to conclude that change of
circumstances, which is substantial in nature must be pleaded
and established by the accused before filing the successive bail
application. Mere cosmetic change would not permit to file
successive anticipatory bail application. Discovery of new fact,
which was not available at the time of earlier application has to
be put in place and to be demonstrate. 15. This Court in case of Arun Ghisalal Verma (supra), has
discussed and examined the ground of alleged change of
circumstances. This Court after examining the issue, carved out
the position to extend the successive bail application stating that
change in fact situation or in law could be termed as change of
circumstances. The change should be such which would require
that earlier view needs to be interfered or where the earlier view
has become obsolete. The change has to be substantial and
must have direct impact on the earlier decision. It should not be
cosmetic change. The successive application cannot have the
same grounds. The relevant paras of the judgments are
reproduced as under:- In the decision in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh v.
 Kajad [2001 (7) SC 673], the Apex Court has observed that:- The Apex Court has further explained the concept of "change in
 circumstance" in the case of Kalyan Chanrda Sarkar v. Rajesh
 Ranjan @ Pappu Yadav & Anr. [2005 (3) GLH 601] and the Apex
 Court has observed and held that:- Thus, the position which emerges from the decisions is that to
 maintain successive bail application, there must be, (a) change in fact situation or in law; ( b) the change should be such which would require that the
 earlier view need to be interfered with. ( c) or when the earlier view has become absolute. ( d) the change must be substantial and must have direct impact
 on the earlier decision. (e) and should not be merely cosmetic change of little or no
 consequence. (f) successive application cannot be filed on the same ground on
 which the previous application/s were rejected/withdrawn. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined 16. The judgment in case of GR Ananda Babu (supra) also
subscribe the view that if there is change of circumstances, the
second successive bail application is maintainable. However, the
Court can guard its wisdom while entertaining the successive
bail application that the specious reason of change of
circumstances cannot be permitted to invoke in successive
anticipatory bail as earlier one is rejected by speaking order and
considering merit as well as appreciating role of the accused. 17. Full Bench of Rajasthan High Court in the case of Ganesh
Raj v/s. State of Rajasthan [2005 SCC Online Raj 319] has also
addressed the issue of maintainability of 2 nd successive bail
application under section 438 of Cr.P.C. Full Bench of Rajasthan
High Court after examining plethora of judgments including
judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Gurubaksh Singh
sibbia v/s. State of Punjab [(1980) 2 SCC 565] as well judgment
of in the case of Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v/s. Rajesh Ranaj @
Pappu Yadav (2005 (3) GLH 601] held in para 25 as under :- 18. Coming back to the case on hand, it is undisputed that
respondent accused filed Criminal Misc. Application No.3725 of
2022 at first point of time under section 438 of Cr.P.C. seeking
anticipatory bail. Concerned Sessions Judge examined merits
and de-merits canvassed before him and also examined role of
the respondent accused in commission of offence to reject
anticipatory bail application. Relevant observations of learned
Sessions Judge in para 5 reads as under :- (page no.221)

 "5. I have heard Ld. Advocates appearing on behalf of the
 respective parties. I have perused the complaint,
 affidavit filed by the investigating officer at Exh.5,
 written objections filed on behalf of original complainant
 and available material on record. Looking to the
 facts and circumstances of the case and
 considering entire materials on record, it appears that in
 order to gain monetary benefit, the present applicant
 accused in connivance with the coaccused persons
 prepared a forged power of attorney of the complainant and
 on the basis of the forged power of attorney they executed
 a registered sale deed in favour of present applicant -
 accused and thereby, tried to grab the valuable
 property of the complainant. Looking to the entire
 evidence available on record, it is revealed that the power
 of attorney on the basis of which sale deed was executed
 does not bear the signature of the complainant.
 Thus, prima facie involvement of the applicant
 accused in the alleged offence cannot be denied.
 Looking to the affidavit filed by the IO, it is also revealed
 that investigation of the present offence is still in progress
 and more accused persons are yet to be arrested. It is also
 revealed from the affidavit filed by the IO that apart from
 the present offence, the applicant accused is also involved
 any other criminal cases which are registered against him Page 34 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 at different police stations of Ahmedabad and
 Gandhinagar, which shows that the applicant accused
 does not have clear antecedents. Further, looking
 records, it transpires that a detailed investigation
 is required to unearth the whole conspiracy and hence,
 presence of applicant accused is required at various
 occasions by the investigating officer. Moreover, this
 Court is in complete agreement with the submission
 made by the Ld. PP that if the applicant accused is
 released on bail at this stage, then it might affect the case
 of the prosecution." 19. Above order came to be passed on 14.12.2022. This order
is not carried to challenge before the High Court, thereby
findings arrived at by the learned Sessions Judge rejecting bail
application has been accepted by the respondent - accused.
Then on 05.04.2023, respondent accused has filed 2 nd successive
bail application for anticipatory bail being Cr.M.A.No.1214 of
2023 under section 438 of Cr.P.C. before the learned Sessions
Judge, Ahmedabad (Rural). Contention raised therein was that
there was change of circumstances. Change of circumstances
which are pleaded for getting anticipatory bail in subsequent bail
application is coming from argument of learned advocate for the
respondent accused which is recorded by learned Sessions
Judge in para 3 of the impugned order dated 13.04.2023. It is in
Gujarati, but for better understanding it is translated in English,
which reads as under :- Approval has been given by passing order that notice be
 issued to the applicant for seven days from 21/03/2022.
 Annexure-C, reports of page no.13 are produced as
 documentary evidences. As Dimpleben had made signature
 as 'witness' in deed, she was arrested and charge-sheet
 has been filed. Investigation in this case is over. The
 Investigating Officer has all documentary evidences.
 Custodial investigation is not required now. Mr. Nirmil
 Jitendra Shah - husband of the complainant has
 mentioned in the statement that signature of the daughter
 of the complainant on Annexure-E, Page No. 19 is genuine.
 Moreover, the applicant does not under the offence covered
 by Section-465 . Section-467 is not used correctly. As the
 action was bona-fide, it is not covered under the offence.
 Affidavit of the complainant is submitted for the quashing
 petition of the daughter of the complainant. The Hon'ble
 High Court on page no. 25 - Annexure - G states that
 "complaint can be termed as abuse of process of law."
 Hence, it can said that there is change in the
 circumstances. Anticipatory bail has been granted to the
 wife of the complainant. She has played major role. She
 has prepared bogus deed. Judgements of Ramesh Batuk
 Dabhi v/s State of Gujarat and Vikram Gautam v/s State
 of Gujarat have been produced in this case. Anticipatory
 bail of Hemal Kishanbhai Parmar has been granted, who
 has acted as 'identified by me' before the Notary during
 execution of bogus power of attorney. Moreover,
 anticipatory bail application has been rejected in CRMA
 No. 3525/2022 and no appeal has been preferred in
 Hon'ble High Court against the same. In the affidavit filed
 by the Investigating Officer, past criminal history has been
 mentioned, however in earlier two matters, FIRs have been
 quashed by the Hon'ble High Court. It is not the case that Page 36 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 signature was made. Therefore, it is requested to allow
 anticipatory bail application. It is also mentioned that they
 are willing to comply with whatever condition that may be laid down by the Hon'ble Court." 20. Looking to the above arguments noted by learned Sessions
Judge in impugned order, it seems that various contentions are
raised by the respondent accused regarding merits of the case
including one that wife of the complainant has got anticipatory
bail and therefore, there is change of circumstances. It was also
contended that wife of the complainant has played major role in
commission of offence and since she has been admitted to bail in
view of judgment in the case of Ramesh Dabhi and Vikram Anil
Gautam (supra) principle of parity applies. While contesting bail
application, prosecution has taken stand that there are as many
as 4 antecedent registered against the accused in Changodar,
Vastrapur and Adalaj Police Station. It is also stated by the
prosecution that role of the respondent - accused is much larger
in conspiracy in commission of offence and therefore, principle of
parity would not apply in successive bail application. Learned
Sessions Judge after recording arguments of both the sides
reached to conclusion to grant anticipatory bail by assigning
reasons in para -6, which is in Gujarati. For better
understanding, it is translated in English and reads as under :- accused have been released on anticipatory and regular
 bail by the Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat and as it is found
 that it is just and appropriate to give benefit of parity to the
 applicant/ accused as per the principles established in the
 judgement of the Hon'ble High Court of Gujarat in Ramesh
 Batukbhai Dabhi versus State of Gujarat , published in
 2011(3) GLR 1999 and in the judgement of Hon'ble High
 Court of Gujarat in Vikram Anil Gautam versus State of
 Gujarat given in CRMA No. 22437/2017 on 08/09/2017
 and moreover, as the Investigating Officer has not
 submitted any evidence as to at what stage the crime
 mentioned in the criminal history, are pending and it is
 also not mentioned that custodial interrogation is required
 for collection of any documentary evidences, I find it fit and
 appropriate to use the discretion vested by the law in
 favour of applicant/accused subject to the strict conditions
 for the apprehensions mentioned and the following order is
 passed." 21. What appears that while granting successive bail
application, consideration which weighed learned Sessions
Judge is that subsequent to rejecting bail application of the
respondent accused, two accused viz. Mrs.Niyati Shah and
Mr.Hemal Parmar have obtained anticipatory bail, whereas,
accused - Dimple Chaudhary has been given regular bail and Page 38 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

therefore, principle of parity applies in the present case. Learned
Sessions Judge has also considered that Mrs. Niyati Shah who is
accused has sold the disputed property through power of
attorney and the respondent accused is purchaser and therefore,
principle of parity applies. Antecedent of previous offence
registered against the accused are brushed aside by the learned
Sessions Judge and given finding that prosecution has not
produced any documentary evidence to indicate about progress
of trial of those offence and moreover, it is believed by learned
Sessions Judge that there is no requirement of custodial
interrogation. 22. Two different Sessions Judges have recorded and decided
first and second anticipatory bail application. Perusing these
judgment and orders, it appears that even in first bail
application, learned Sessions Judge has examined role of the
accused and denied to grant anticipatory bail. As stated herein
above, order denying bail has not been carried to challenge
before the High Court. In 2 nd successive bail application, learned
Sessions Judge has again examined role of the accused under
the pretext of applying principle of parity and as such reviewed
earlier order. It is no doubt that principle of parity would be one
of the relevant factors while deciding bail application, but issue
arise whether principle of parity would apply if role of accused is
already examined at earlier point of time and another accused
got bail subsequent thereto. 23. In the case of Arun Ghisalal Varma (supra), this Court has
examined the issue in para 8.5, 8.6, 8.7,8.8 and 8.9, which Page 39 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

reads as under :- 21.......In my considered opinion merely because
 another co-accused of this case has been enlarged on
 bail by another learned Single Judge of this Court
 would not be a ground to release the present accused
 on bail." 8.6. In the case of Central Bureau of Investigation,
 Hyderabad v. Subramani Gopalakrishnan & Anr. [(2011) 5
 SCC 296], while considering the case of the accused No.4,
 who made request for bail on the ground that accused No.5
 was released on bail, the Apex Court declined the request
 observing that the request cannot be accepted as accused
 No.4 cannot be put on the same footing as the accused
 No.5 and there was no similarity in respect of the role of
 accused No.4 and accused No.5. 8.7. Thus, the stand - alone fact viz. that a co-accused is
 granted bail, in itself and without anything more would not
 justify the request for bail by a person whose request is
 once rejected (or withdrawn) and would not tantamount to
 substantial "change in circumstance" having impact on
 previous decision, which is the requirement. The above
 decisions bring out the dimension that merely because
 some co-accused is subsequently granted bail, an accused
 whose earlier application is rejected/withdrawn would not Page 40 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 be justified to maintain successive application on the same
 ground raised in earlier application. Thus, an applicant in
 successive application needs to urge different - other
 grounds to maintain the application. 8.8. So as to take shield against the above noted
 requirements, the applicant claimed parity with the
 persons to whom the Court granted bail after withdrawal of
 applicant's earlier application. Now, so far as the claim for
 parity is concerned, on that count also, the facts, in my
 view, do not support or justify the applicant's case. So far
 as the order granting bail to other co-accused persons are
 concerned, it is claimed that two persons, who are
 witnesses to the disputed Agreement to Sell and one other
 person (a stamp vendor) have been granted bail after the
 applicant withdrew his previous application and that
 therefore, he may also be granted anticipatory bail. 8.9 The ground of parity is not available for more than one
 reasons. Even if one proceeds on the premise that the
 order granting bail to other accused persons would
 constitute change in circumstance then also, ipso-facto it
 would not make available a ground to claim parity. In
 present case the nature of allegation against the said
 persons vis-a-vis present applicant and the role allegedly
 played by the applicant and the position or the relation the
 applicant had enjoyed with the complainant and the
 allegation that he played pivotal role in the matter, places
 the applicant's case on different footing and, therefore, I
 am of the view that ground of parity is not available to the
 applicant in present case. This is evident from the fact that
 the two accused persons, who are enlarged on bail acted as
 witnesses to the alleged execution of the documents
 whereas the applicant is the person, who claims to be the
 holder/grantee of the Power of Attorney constituted by the
 complainant and then he presented himself as
 complainant's constituted attorney and he executed the
 disputed sale deed. Thus, the order granting bail to the
 said two persons (witnesses to the documents) cannot
 provide ground of parity to the applicant. The third person,
 who has been granted bail (after the applicant withdrew his
 application) is the stamp vendor. The stamp vendor, a
 woman, has been granted bail but that is granted - after Page 41 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 her arrest and after she was held in custody and that too
 principally on the ground that the said stamp vendor is a
 lady. Thus, the said order also will not provide any parity
 to the applicant whose role is materially different and who
 has claimed anticipatory bail." 24. What appears from the above decision that merely because
some accused has been granted bail and accused whose bail
application is withdrawn would not be justified to maintain
successive application on the same ground raised in earlier
application. It is held by the Co-ordinate Bench that the
applicant in successive bail application needs to urge different /
other grounds to maintain application. 25. In the present case, barring claiming parity, respondent
accused has not pleaded any other or new grounds or
subsequent development. What appears on perusing impugned
order that learned Sessions Judge has reviewed earlier order of
rejecting bail application. In such a way, discretion under section 438 of Cr.P.C. cannot be exercised. Review is not
permissible. Err has crept. Anticipatory bail granted to
respondent accused is on unjust, irrelevant and untenable
grounds. 26. It is not in dispute that rejection of bail is one thing but
cancellation of bail is harsh order and it deals with personal
liberty of the individual who has been granted bail. The Court
while dealing with application for cancellation of bail under section 439(2) of Cr.P.C. is required to consider whether
supervening circumstances exist which requires to cancel bail, Page 42 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

whether there is breach of condition or whether irrelevant
materials were taken into consideration by the Court below while
granting anticipatory bail. In the case of Puran v/s. Rambilas
and another [2001 (6) SCC 338], it was noted as follows :- 27. This Court has examined the aspect that whether there
was other and subsequent grounds available to the learned Trial
Court to entertain successive bail application and to grant
anticipatory bail in second successive anticipatory bail
application. As stated herein above, learned Trial Court has Page 43 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

given more weight-age to principle of parity, without discussing
role of accused Mrs. Niyati Shah and role of the present
respondent accused in detail which was required as it was
pressed into service in subsequent bail application. According to
case of the prosecution, Mrs.Niyati is wife of complainant, she is
unfit to take decision. FSL report indicates that on the basis of
signature of the complainant on power of attorney, some money
was lent to accused Mrs.Niyatii and in return sale deed of
disputed property has been obtained at meager price. Disputed
property which was priced at around Rs.1 crores and purchased
by the complainant few months back has been carry off at
meager price about Rs.40 lakhs by the accused taking benefit of
condition of accused Mrs.Niyati Shah who is unfit to take
decision by forging power of attorney of the complainant. Role of
the accused is much bigger then role played by other accused.
Thus, there was no legal ground or justification to entertain
second successive bail application, after earlier one was rejected.
Even otherwise, learned Trial Court has committed error in
entertaining successive bail application on the grounds which
are not new or arise after decision of first bail application. 28. From the record it can be noticed that when learned
Sessions Judge has passed the impugned order on 13.04.2024,
but during pendency of second successive bail application,
charge-sheet in the offence ie. C.R.No.11192015220529 of 2022
registered with Changodar Police Station was filed and accused -
Karan Devendra Rabari is shown in column no.2 as absconding
accused. Charge-sheet was filed along with report of Director of
Forensic Science approving that signature on the POA is not of Page 44 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

the complainant. Learned Sessions Judge has not noticed that
accused is absconding as per charge-sheet. Co-ordinate Bench
in Criminal Misc. Application No.15574 of 2023 filed for getting
anticipatory bail in connection with CR No.11191048230463 of
2023 registered with Sarkhej Police Station, Ahmedabad rejected
the anticipatory bail application and held that accused is
absconding and warrant under section 70 of Cr.P.C. is also
issued against him in that offence. Para 9 of the said order dated
12.10.2023 reads thus :- 29. From the police report taken on record, it appears that
accused was enlarged on anticipatory bail being Cr.M.A.No.2112
of 2022 for CR No.11192015220351 of 2022 registered with
Changodar Police Station. In the offence, after filing of charge-
sheet, Criminal Case No.3438 of 2023 was registered. The
accused did not remain present before the Court and therefore,
Non bailable warrant is issued against him. So practically it
indicates cancellation of bail granted in Cr.M.A.No.2112 of 2022.
Accused is absconding and warrant under section 70 of Cr.P.C.
is issued in two cases. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined 30. Section70 of Cr.P.C. reads as under :- 31. Warrant issued under section 70 shall remain in force till it
is cancelled, in view of section 70(2) of Cr.P.C. 32. At this juncture, I may refer to judgment of Hon'ble Apex
Court in the case of Srikant Upadhyhay v/s. State of Bihar [2024
INSC 202]. Hon'ble Apex Court dealt with meaning of term
absconding. Para 17 to 20 are relevant, which reads as under :- Whoever, being legally bound to attend in person or by an
 agent at a certain place and time in obedience to a
 summons, notice, order, or proclamation proceeding from
 any public servant legally competent, as such public
 servant, to issue the same, intentionally omits to attend at
 that place or time, or departs from the place where he is
 bound to attend before the time at which it is lawful for
 him to depart, shall be punished with simple imprisonment
 for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine
 which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both, or,
 if the summons, notice, order or proclamation is to attend
 in person or by agent in a Court of Justice, with simple
 imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months,
 or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or
 with both. 174A. Non-appearance in response to a proclamation
 under section 82 of Act 2 of 1974.- Whoever fails to appear at the specified place and the
 specified time as required by a proclamation published
 under sub-section (1) of section 82 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 shall be punished with imprisonment for
 a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with
 both, and where a declaration has been made under sub-
 section (4) of that section pronouncing him as a proclaimed
 offender, he shall be punished with imprisonment for a Page 47 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 term which may extend to seven years and shall also be
 liable to fine. 18. Taking note of the aforesaid facts with respect to the
 issuance of summons, warrants and subsequently the
 proclamation, a conjoint reading of Sections 19 , 20 and 21 ,
 IPC containing the terms "Judge", "Court of Justice" and
 "Public Servant" and Sections 174 and 174A , IPC can make
 them liable even to face further proceedings. Same is the
 position in case of non-attendance in obedience to
 proclamation under Section 82 , Cr. PC. 19. Bearing in mind the aforesaid provisions and position,
 we will refer to certain relevant decisions. In Savitaben
 Govindbhai Patel & Ors. v. State of Gujarat5 , the High
 Court of Gujarat observed thus: - (underline supplied) 20. We are in full agreement with the view taken by the
 Gujarat High Court that filing of an anticipatory bail
 through an advocate would not and could not be treated as
 appearance before a court by a person against whom such
 proceedings, as mentioned above are instituted. The
 meaning of the term "absconded" has been dealt by us
 hereinbefore. We found that its etymological and original
 sense is that the accused is hiding himself. What is
 required as proof for absconding is the evidence to the
 effect that the person concerned was knowing that he was
 wanted and also about pendency of warrant of arrest. A
 detailed discussion is not warranted in this case to
 understand that the appellants were actually absconding. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

 It is not in dispute that they were served with the
 "summons". The fact that bailable warrants were issued
 against them on 12.04.2022 is also not disputed, as the
 appellants themselves have produced the order
 whereunder bailable warrants were issued against them.
 We have already referred to Section 70 (2) , Cr. PC which
 would reveal the position that once a warrant is issued it
 would remain in force until it is cancelled by the Court
 which issued it or until its execution. There is no case for
 the appellants that either of such events had occurred in
 this case to make the warrants unenforceable. They also
 got no case that their application was interfered with by a
 higher Court. That apart, it is a fact that the appellants
 themselves on 23.08.2022, moved a bail-cum-surrender
 application before the Trial Court but withdrew the same
 fearing arrest. It is also relevant to note that in the case on
 hand even while contending that they were before a Court,
 the appellants got no case that in terms of the provisions
 under Section 438 (1-B), Cr. PC an order for their presence
 before the Court was ordered either suo motu by the Court
 or on an application by the public prosecutor. When that
 be the circumstance, the appellants cannot be allowed to
 contend that they were not hiding or concealing themselves
 from arrest or that they were not knowing that they were
 wanted in a Court of law." 33. Above aspect clearly held that accused is absconding in
two cases and was also not available when charge-sheet was
filed in C.R.No.11192015220351 of 2022 registered with
Changodar Police Station. It makes clear that accused has
misused his personal liberty. He is on run. 34. One more aspect that has not been noticed by learned
Sessions Judge while granting anticipatory bail to the accused is
antecedents of accused. Report placed by the Investigating
Officer indicates that as many as 8 offences are recorded against
the accused - Karan Devendrabhai Rabari. They are as under :- 35. In addition to above, accused was also send behind bar in
PASA proceedings. Learned advocate Mr.Bhatt for the
respondent - accused would submit that in 2 offences, accused
is acquitted and rest of the offences are pending. He would
submit that PASA proceedings are quashed by this Court. These
issues have not been dealt with by the learned Sessions Court
while entertaining second successive bail application.
Antecedents of accused being previous offences registered
against him are one of the important and relevant consideration
while deciding bail application. This has been totally allowed to
go by, by the learned Trial Court by giving finding that Page 50 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

prosecution has not produced any documentary evidence.
According to this Court, finding arrived by learned Sessions
Court is perverse, unjust and illegal and on irrelevant grounds. 36. So far as Criminal Misc. Application No.2112 of 2022 is
concerned, learned Trial Court has issued warrant under section
70 of Cr.P.C. against the accused. In view of section 70(2) of
Cr.P.C., it remains in force till it is executed or cancelled.
Issuance of warrant itself is sufficient to indicate that accused is
not cooperating and he is on run. It is amounting to breach of
condition and misuse of personal liberty. Thus, anticipatory bail
granted to the accused is required to be set aside. 37. Learned advocate Mr.Bhatt for the respondent - accused
made various contentions including allegation of atrocious act
on the part of police and submits that police in connivance with
complainant is behind the respondent accused. Since criminal
inquiry in this regard is pending before the concerned Court,
this Court restrains itself from observing anything in this regard.
Some other submissions are canvassed by learned advocate
Mr.Bhatt that complainant once failed to get relief in civil
proceedings, he has given color of criminality to the issue and
therefore, such act and behaviour on the part of the complainant
should not be accepted to cancel the bail. To be noted that on
going through charge-sheet papers, prima facie it appears that
signature of the complainant is forged on power of attorney. FSL
report is attached with the charge-sheet papers. Accused is
direct beneficiary of such act carried through forged power of
attorney and got registered sale deed of the bungalow valued at Page 51 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

more than one crore at meager price of Rs.40 lakhs and odd
amount, as such has grabbed the valuable immovable property
of the complainant. In given set of facts, civil proceedings or
criminal offence may emerge. Hon'ble Apex Court in Vesa
Holdings P.Ltd. v/s. State of Kerala (supra) in para 9 has held
that because civil remedy may be available to the complainant
that itself cannot be ground to quash criminal proceedings.
While putting real test, the Hon'ble Apex Court held that
whether the allegation in the complaint disclose criminal offence
of cheating or not is to be find out. As stated herein above, FSL
report indicates that signature of the complainant is forged on
power of attorney. Prima facie case is made out against the
accused. Only because parties are perusing civil proceedings, in
the case on hand, it would not amount to abuse of process of
Court and would not come in the way to cancel bail. 38. Overall reasons spells that learned Sessions Court has
erred in entertaining second successive bail application and
exercised discretion on irrelevant consideration as well as on
unjust grounds. 39. Principle of parity and its application has been strongly
argued by learned advocate Mr.Bhatt for the respondent accused
to submit that learned Court has considered parity as change of
circumstances, in view of bail granted to accused Mrs.Niyati
Shah, in view of judgment of this Court in the case of Ramesh
Batukbhai Dabhi and Vikram Anil Gautam (supra). Howbeit, this
issue is succinctly addressed herein above, yet I may take
assistance of judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Page 52 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined

Tarun Kumar v/s. Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement
[2023 INSC 1006]. Para 18 and 19 are relevant, which reads as
under :- day operations of the company. It was also observed that
 the appellant's role was made out from the financials,
 where direct loan funds have been siphoned off to the
 sister concerns of SBFL, where the appellant was either a
 shareholder or director. In any case, the order granting bail
 to Raman Bhuraria being under consideration before the
 coordinate bench of this Court, it would not be appropriate
 for us to make any observation with regard to the said
 order passed by the High Court. 19. It is axiomatic that the principle of parity is based on
 the guarantee of positive equality before law enshrined in Page 53 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined Article 14 of the 20 Constitution. However, if any illegality
 or irregularity has been committed in favour of any
 individual or a group of individuals, or a wrong order has
 been passed by a judicial forum, others cannot invoke the
 jurisdiction of the higher or superior court for repeating or
 multiplying the same irregularity or illegality or for passing
 similar wrong order. Article 14 is not meant to perpetuate
 the illegality or irregularity. If there has been a benefit or
 advantage conferred on one or a set of people by any
 authority or by the court, without legal basis or
 justification, other persons could not claim as a matter of
 right the benefit on the basis of such wrong decision." 40. Learned advocate Mr.Bhatt for respondent accused has
also submitted that this is case where complainant hand in glove
with police has attempted to over reach Civil Court proceedings.
The police has approached Civil Court and requested not to
accept documents viz. forged power of attorney and relevant
documents and submitted that it is clear connivance by the
police with the complainant and there is no procedure in the
procedural law permitting the police to approach Civil Court
seeking relief that plaintiff may not be permitted to produce such
documents in Court. It is submitted that such attempt implies
how complainant and police are eager to see that personal liberty
of the accused may be jeopardized. It was submitted that
Constitutional Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case
of PSR Sadhanantham v/s. Arunachalam [(1980) 3 SCC 141]
appreciated as poetry in prose - Article 21 , in its sublime brevity,
guards human liberty by insisting on the prescription of
procedure established by law. It is submitted that in the present
petition, attempt is made on the part of the complainant with
police to deprive personal liberty of the accused. NEUTRAL CITATION

R/CR.MA/15704/2022 CAV JUDGMENT DATED: 05/04/2024

 undefined 41. Since this Court believes that on irrelevant grounds,
discretion has been wrongly exercised by the learned Sessions
Court by entertaining successive bail application, arguments
canvassed by learned advocate Mr.Bhatt does not survive. The
judgments on which learned advocate Mr.Bhatt has referred and
relied in support of his case does not render any assistance in
his favour. 42. In wake of above reasons, both the petitions are allowed.
Anticipatory bail granted to the accused viz. Karan Devendrabhai
Rabari and Arjun Devendrabhai Rabari in Criminal Misc.
Application No.2112 of 2022 and Criminal Misc. Application
No.1214 of 2023 are hereby cancelled. The respondents accused
are ordered to surrender within seven days from today before the
authority, failing which the authority shall be at liberty to take
necessary action. 43. Needless to say that observations and findings arrived
hereinabove are limited to decision on these applications. They
shall not influence any other proceedings arise between the
parties. (J. C. DOSHI,J)
SATISH Page 55 of 55 Downloaded on : Fri Apr 05 22:03:27 IST 2024