This appeal by the appellant/wife is directed against the

judgment and decree dated 30.7.2002 passed by the learned Additional

District Judge, Patiala vide which petition filed by the respondent/husband

under sections 11 and 12 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (for short the FAO No.206-M of 2002 2 Act), was allowed. The respondent/husband filed a petition under sections 11 and 12 of the Act against the appellant/ wife on the allegations that the marriage

between the parties was solemnized on 5.12.1997 at Ropar. Prior to the

marriage the respondent/ husband was married to one Surjit Kaur and a

female child namely Jaswinder Kaur was born on 15.8.1993. Surjit Kaur

died on 10.5.1995 and thereafter the marriage between the parties was

performed. The case set up by the respondent was that after the marriage

the husband came to know that the appellant was already married with

Jaspal Singh son of Hardial Singh resident of House No.75-A, Ward No.1,

Jhugian Road, Kharar. Jaspal Singh was still alive and the marriage

between the appellant and Jaspal Singh had not been dissolved. It was also

the case set up that on inquiries family members of the appellant including

the appellant disclosed that the marriage between the appellant and Jaspal

Singh was dissolved by a decree of divorce but the copy thereof was

retained by their counsel. However, no copy was shown to the respondent.

It was also the case of the respondent that even sub-caste of the appellant

was not disclosed which was, in fact, the same as that of the respondent.

Thus, plea of fraud was taken for declaring the marriage to be nullity. Petition was contested on the plea that the respondent/husband

has supressed the material facts regarding birth of a female child on

5.2.1999 in Kiran Nursing Home, Ropar. Smt.Surjit Kaur earlier wife of the

respondent had died as a result of dowry death. FIR No.115 dated FAO No.206-M of 2002 3 5.5.1995 was registered at Police Station Sadar Patiala against the

respondent and his father. It was alleged that the marriage between the

parties was arranged through Ms.Kamaljit Kaur wife of Mohan Singh and

not by Daljit Singh. It was disclosed that sub-caste was correctly disclosed

at the time of marriage. It was pleaded that sub castes of the parties were

different. It was also pleaded that the fact regarding previous marriage was

disclosed to the respondent. Stand was taken that the marriage with Jaspal

Singh was dissolved through writing in the panchayat which was written on

stamp paper and signed by both the parties. Stand was also taken that the

marriage between the partes was solemnized after dissolution of earlier

marriage of the appellant with Jaspal Singh in the panchayat, and that Jaspal

Singh had also solemnized second marriage with Baljinder Kaur daughter

of Jagir Singh on 30.6.1998. It was denied that the certified copy of the

decree was ever asked from the appellant. In the replication, averments made in the written statement

were denied and that of the petition were reiterated. On the pleadings of the parties learned trial court framed the

following issues:- The respondent to prove the sub-castes of the parties proved on FAO No.206-M of 2002 4 record pe-degree tables Ex.P.1 and P.2 . The respondent appeared in the

witness box and also examined Smt.Parkash Kaur, Sucha Singh and Dalbir

Singh, to prove the castes of the parties. Learned matrimonial court held that sub-caste of both the

parties was the same. However, plea of the respondent that fraud was

played as the sub caste was not disclosed was not accepted. It was held that

the fact was in fact disclosed to the respondent. On appreciation of

evidence and fact regarding prosecution of the respondent regarding

death of Surjit Kaur was taken to hold that the respondent must have been

informed about the sub caste and the plea of fraud was rejected. It was also held that the parties were not within the digree of

prohibited relationship as defined under section 3 (g) of the Act and

therefore, it could not be a ground to annul the marriage. Learned matrimonial court, however, held that the marriage is

void under section 11 of the Act, as on the date of marriage Jaspal Singh i.e.

spouse of the appellant was alive. The learned matrimonial court held that plea that the marriage

was dissolved in panchayat could not be accepted as no plea of custom was

raised nor any such custom was proved. The learned matrimonial court held

that on the date of marriage the appellant had not obtained divorce from her

previous husband from any competent court having jurisdiction. As already observed above learned matrimonial court also

found as a fact, that no evidence was led to establish that there was any

custom or usage prevalent in the community of the appellant under which FAO No.206-M of 2002 5 divorce through writing of panchayatnama was permissible. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of M.M.Malhotra Vs.

Union of India and others AIR 2006 SC 80, has laid down as under:- Clause (i) of Section 5 lays down, for a lawful marriage, the

 necessary condition that neither party should have a spouse

 living at the time of the marriage. A marriage in contravention

 of this condition, therefore, is null and void. By reason of the

 overriding effect of the Marriage Act as mentioned in section 4 ,

 no aid can be taken of the earlier Hindu law or any custom or

 usage as a part of that law inconsistent with any provision of

 the Act. So far as Section 12 is concerned, it is confined to

 other categories of marriages and is not applicable to one FAO No.206-M of 2002 6 solemnized in violation of Section 5 (i) of the Act. Sub-section

 (2) of Section 12 puts further restrictions on such a right. The

 cases covered by this section are not void ab initio, and unless

 all the conditions mentioned therein are fulfilled and the

 aggrieved party exercises the right to avoid it, the same

 continues to be effective The marriages covered by Section 11 are void ipso jure, that is, void from the very inception, and

 have to be ignored as not existing in law at all if and when such

 a question arises. Although the section permits a formal

 declaration to be made on the presentation of a petition, it is not

 essential to obtain in advance such a formal declaration from a

 court in a proceeding specifically commenced for the purpose.

 The provisions of Section 16 , which is quoted below, also

 throw light on this aspect. " Sub-section (1), by using the words underlined above clearly

 implies that a void marriage can be held to be so without a prior

 formal declaration by a court in a proceeding. While dealing

 with cases covered by Section 12 , sub-section (2) refers to a

 decree of nullity as an essential condition and sub-section (3)

 prominently brings out the basic difference in the character of

 void and voidable marriages as covered respectively by Sections 11 and 12 . It is also to be seen that while the

 legislature has considered it advisable to uphold the legitimacy

 of the paternity of a child born out of a void marriage, it has not FAO No.206-M of 2002 8 extended a similar protection in respect of the mother of the

 child. The marriage of the appellant must, therefore, be treated

 as null and void from its very inception." In view of the authoritative pronouncement of Hon'ble

Supreme Court marriage between the parties was nullity, therefore, learned

matrimonial court rightly allowed the petition and dissolved the marriage by

way of a decree of nullity. Mr.M.S.Rakkar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of

the appellant vehemently contended that the marriage between the appellant

and Jaspal Singh was dissolved by panchayatnama as per the custom and

therefore, the learned court below erred in law in allowing the petition

under section 11 of the Act. In support of this contention learned senior counsel for the

appellant placed reliance on the judgment of this court in the case of

Smt.Shakuntala Devi Vs. Amar Nath AIR 1982 Punjab & Haryana 221,

wherein this court was pleased to lay down that the marriage between the

children of a brother and a sister or two sisters among Aroras is protected

under the custom being Riwaj-a-Am. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Delhi

High Court in the case of Balwinder Singh Vs. Smt.Gurpal Kaur AIR

1985 Delhi 14, wherein Hon'ble Delhi High Court was pleased to lay down

as under:- This contention of the learned senior counsel cannot be

accepted. It is not in dispute that the appellant neither pleaded any custom

nor any evidence was led in support thereof. It is well settled law that the plea of custom has to be pleaded

and proved, and in the absence thereof no presumption of custom can be

drawn. Findings of the learned matrimonial court on issue No.1 are,

therefore, affirmed. Learned senior counsel for the applicant-appellant has placed FAO No.206-M of 2002 11 reliance on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramesh

Chandra Rampratapji Daga Vs. Rameshwari Ramesh Chandra Daga ,

2005(1) Apex Court Judgments 396 to contend, that even in case where

the marriage is declared as null and void under Section 11 read with Section

5(i) of the Hindu Marriage Act, the party is entitled to permanent alimony. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ramesh Chandra Rampratapji Daga Vs.

Rameshwari Ramesh Chandra Daga (supra) has been pleased to lay

down as under: - In view of the authoritative pronouncement of Hon'ble

Supreme Court in the case of Rameshchandra Rampratapji Daga Vs.

Rameshwari Rameshchandra Daga (Supra ), while affirming the decree

of nullity of marriage, keeping in view the income and status of parties

permanent alimony payable to the respondent is fixed at the rate of

Rs.1500/- (Rupees fifteen hundred only) per month during her life time and

in addition Rs.1000/- (Rupees one thousand only) per month for child Daisy

till the date of her marriage. Appeal dismissed but with no order as to costs. (Vinod K.Sharma)
31.08.2009 Judge
rp