Since the issue involved in all these writ petitions are common, at the request of the learned Senior Counsel appearing on either side, the writ petitions were taken up together and disposed of by this common order. 2. W.P.Nos.21810, 21812 and 21814 of 2015 are filed by M/s.Sun TV Network Ltd., M/s Kal Radio Ltd., and M/s. South Asia FM Ltd., respectively to issue Writs of Certiorarified Mandamus to call for the records of the 2nd respondent in their order dated 15th July, 2015, to quash the same and consequently direct the respondents 1 & 2 to permit the petitioners to migrate to FM Phase-III Regime by allowing the petitioner companies to resubmit the bank guarantee and permitting the petitioners to participate in the forthcoming FM Station Phase-III Auction pursuant to the Notice Inviting Application dated March 2nd 2015 for E-Auction of First batch of Private FM Radio Phase-III Channels. 3. W.P.Nos.21811, 21813 and 21815 of 2015 are filed by the petitioners, who are shareholders of M/s.Sun TV Network Ltd., M/s Kal Radio Ltd., and M/s. South Asia FM Ltd., respectively, to issue Writs of Certiorari to call for the records on the file of the 2nd respondent in their order dated 15th July, 2015 and to quash the same. 4. W.P.Nos.11476 & 11477 of 2015 are filed by M/s.Udaya FM Private Limited and M/s.Sun TV Network Ltd., to issue Writs of Mandamus to direct the respondents 1 & 2 to permit the petitioners to move to Phase- III policy for the FM Radio Station at Vishakapatinam (in W.P.No.11476/2015) and Chennai, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli (in W.P.No.11477/2015) by entering into Grant of Permission Agreement [GOPA]. 5. The brief case of the petitioner companies in W.P.Nos.21810 to 21815 of 2015 is as follows: 6. The brief case of the petitioner companies in W.P.Nos.11476 & 11477 of 2015 is as follows: 7. The brief case of the respondents is as follows:- Under this umbrella, there are certain rating parameters which include both matters relating to unity and territorial integrity of India as well as matters vital to economic security, development and prosperity of the country and its citizens. Under the policy, the Ministry of Home Affairs has kept the threshold for rating parameter of security clearance to entities/individuals at the level of prosecution and not of conviction for serious offences like Corruption, money laundering, financial frauds etc., because of clear threats to national security emanating there from. (iv) According to the respondents, in terms of national security clearance policy of Ministry of Home Affairs, prosecution for major financial frauds and corruption etc., is a ground for denial of security clearance. Further, the respondents have stated that the Ministry of Home Affairs had denied security clearance to M/s.Sun TV Network Ltd., M/s Kal Radio Ltd., and M/s. South Asia FM Ltd. on the ground that:- 8. Heard Mr.P.S.Raman, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners in W.P.Nos.21810 & 21811 of 2015, Mr.G.Masilamani, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners in W.P.Nos.21812 & 21813 of 2015, Mr.AR.L.Sundaresan learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners in W.P.Nos.21814 & 21815 of 2015 and Mr.Vijayanarayanan, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners in W.P.Nos. 11476 and 11477 of 2015 and Mr.G.Rajagopalan, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondents. 9. The respective learned Senior Counsels appearing for the petitioners made the following submissions:- 9. Thus, the acceptance of the tender, communicated by the respondents to the petitioner by e-mail, will be deemed to be received by the petitioner at Varanasi/Chandauli, which are the only two places where the petitioner has his place of business. 10. In view of the facts mentioned in the supplementary affidavit, read with Information Technology Act , the acceptance having been received by the petitioner at Chandauli/Varanasi, the contract became complete by receipt of such acceptance at Varanasi/Chandauli, both of which places are within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. Therefore, a part of the cause of action having arisen in U.P., this Court has territorial jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition. However, it has to be examined whether the "ouster' Clause (No. 10.5) of the tender agreement has the effect of excluding the writ jurisdiction of this Court. 11. Jurisdiction of civil courts is created by statute and cannot be created or conferred by the consent of the parties upon a court which has not been granted territorial or pecuniary or other (subject matter related) jurisdiction by statute. 12. Under Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the parties by their agreement are not permitted to totally exclude the jurisdiction of civil courts which has been created by statute However, where several civil courts have territorial jurisdiction in respect of a suit, parties may by agreement confine themselves to any one or more of such civil courts and such an agreement would not be violative of Section 28 of the Contract Act. 13. The above principles apply to civil suits and civil courts. 14. Generally, the courts are reluctant to accept ouster of the jurisdiction of the civil courts and, therefore, ouster clauses in agreement are construed strictly and jurisdiction is field to be excluded only when it is inevitable result of the agreement. In this light the Supreme-Court in the case of A.B.C. Laminart Pvt. Ltd and Anr. v. A.P. Agencies (AIR 1989 SC 1239), laid down that either the agreement ousting jurisdiction of some courts and confining the jurisdiction to one or more courts should use the words like 'alone', 'only', 'exclusive' etc. in the ouster clause with regard to the courts to which jurisdiction has been confined; or in the alternative where such isolating words have not been used, the maxim 'expressio unius est exclusio allenus' meaning 'expression of one is the exclusion of another' may be applied in appropriate cases where the facts so demand. 15. After considering the facts of the said case as well as the alleged ouster clause which said "any dispute arising out of this sale-shall be subject to Kaira jurisdiction", the Supreme Court held that it would not oust the jurisdiction of other courts which had territorial jurisdiction under Section 20(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure. 16. But, more fundamental question needs to be examined, viz. whether the ouster clauses can exclude the jurisdiction of civil courts only or whether such clause can exclude the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India also- 17. Section 20 C.P.C. for the civil court and Article 226 of the Constitution of India for the High Courts permit the exercise of territorial jurisdiction where the cause of action wholly or in part arises within their territories. To that extent, the words used in the two provisions are similar. 18. But, there is one vital difference, namely, that while the jurisdiction to pass a decree accrues to the civil court only upon institution of suit by filing of a plaint and the civil court cannot act suo moto, but under Article 226 of the Constitution of India the power to issue writs, orders or directions is not necessarily dependant upon filing of a writ petition. The High Court has the power to act suo moto if an appropriate matter comes to its knowledge calling for intervention by it. Such knowledge may be received by the High Court by means of a writ petition or otherwise. 19. When the parties enter into an agreement confining themselves to the jurisdiction of one of the several civil courts having territorial jurisdiction in respect of a suit, basically the parties are placing a restraint upon themselves from approaching the other civil courts whose jurisdiction has been excluded by the agreement. In this manner the jurisdiction of the other civil courts gets ousted, subject only to one restriction which is provided in Section 28 of the Contract Act, However, the power of judicial review given to the High Courts by Article 226 of the Constitution of India, and being a basic feature of the Constitution, cannot be curtailed even by statute, as held by the Supreme Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India and Ors. . Therefore, it is not possible, to accept the contention that the said constitutional power of the High Court to issue a writ suo moto can be curtailed by an agreement between litigants, 20. We, therefore, hold that the ouster clauses can oust a territorial jurisdiction only of civil courts and not of the High Court in respect of however under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, provided such power exists in the High Court on account of part of cause of action having arisen with its territorial jurisdiction. (ii) (2007) 8 SCC 1( Reliance Energy Ltd. v. Maharashtra State Road Development Corpn. Ltd. ,) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows:- The questions before the Court, thus, are whether the restriction imposed was reasonable and whether the purported purpose of the same squarely fell within the relevant clauses discussed above. 36. As already noticed, rights, restrictions and duties coexist. As, on the one hand, it is necessary to maintain and preserve the freedom of speech and expression in a democracy, there, on the other, it is also necessary to place reins on this freedom for the maintenance of social order. The term social order has a very wide ambit. It includes law and order, public order as well as the security of the State. The security of the State is the core subject and public order as well as law and order follow the same. 37. In Romesh Thappar v. State of Madraa [AIR 1950 SC 124 = 1950(51) Crl.Law Jrl.1514] this Court took the view that local breaches of public order were no grounds for restricting the freedom of speech guaranteed by the Constitution. This led to the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 and consequently, this Court in Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar [AIR 1966 (Crl.Law Jrl) 608] stated that an activity which affects law and order may not necessarily affect public order and an activity which might be prejudicial to public order may not necessarily affect security of the State. Absence of public order is an aggravated form of disturbance of public peace which affects the general current of public life. Any act which merely affects the security of others may not constitute a breach of public order. 44. The distinction between public order and law and order is a fine one, but nevertheless clear. A restriction imposed with law and order in mind would be least intruding into the guaranteed freedom while public order may qualify for a greater degree of restriction since public order is a matter of even greater social concern. Out of all expressions used in this regard, as discussed in the earlier part of this judgment, security of the State is the paramount and the State can impose restrictions upon the freedom, which may comparatively be more stringent than those imposed in relation to maintenance of public order and law and order. However stringent may these restrictions be, they must stand the test of reasonability. The State would have to satisfy the court that the imposition of such restrictions is not only in the interest of the security of the State but is also within the framework of Articles 19(2) and 19(3) of the Constitution. 49. Section 144 CrPC is intended to serve public purpose and protect public order. This power vested in the executive is to be invoked after the satisfaction of the authority that there is need for immediate prevention or that speedy remedy is desirable and directions as contemplated are necessary to protect the interest of others or to prevent danger to human life, health or safety or disturbance of public tranquillity or a riot or an affray. These features must coexist at a given point of time in order to enable the authority concerned to pass appropriate orders. The expression law and order is a comprehensive expression which may include not merely public order but also matters such as public peace, public tranquillity and orderliness in a locality or a local area and perhaps some other matters of public concern too. Public order is something distinct from order or orderliness in a local area. Public order, if disturbed, must lead to public disorder whereas every breach of peace may not always lead to public disorder. (xiii) (2014) 9 SCC 329 ( Nawal Kishore Sharma v. Union of India ) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows:- (2) The power conferred on a High Court by clause (1) shall not be in derogation of the power conferred on the Supreme Court by clause (2) of Article 32. 8. While interpreting the aforesaid provision, the Constitution Bench of this Court in Election Commission v. Saka Venkata Rao [AIR 1953 SC 210], held that the writ court would not run beyond the territories subject to its jurisdiction and that the person or the authority affected by the writ must be amenable to courts jurisdiction either by residence or location within those territories. The rule that cause of action attracts jurisdiction in suits is based on statutory enactment and cannot apply to writs issued under Article 226 of the Constitution which makes no reference to any cause of action or where it arises but insist on the presence of the person or authority within the territories in relation to which the High Court exercises jurisdiction. In another Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in K.S. Rashid & Son v. Income Tax Investigation Commission [AIR 1954 SC 207], this Court took the similar view and held that the writ court cannot exercise its power under Article 226 beyond its territorial jurisdiction. The Court was of the view that the exercise of power conferred by Article 226 was subject to a twofold limitation viz. firstly, the power is to be exercised in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction and secondly, the person or authority on whom the High Court is empowered to issue writ must be within those territories. These two Constitution Bench judgments came for consideration before a larger Bench of seven Judges of this Court in Lt. Col. Khajoor Singh v. Union of India [AIR 1961 SC 532]. The Bench approved the aforementioned two Constitution Bench judgments and opined that unless there are clear and compelling reasons, which cannot be denied, writ court cannot exercise jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution beyond its territorial jurisdiction. 9. The interpretation given by this Court in the aforesaid decisions resulted in undue hardship and inconvenience to the citizens to invoke writ jurisdiction. As a result, clause (1-A) was inserted in Article 226 by the Constitution (Fifteenth) Amendment Act, 1963 and subsequently renumbered as clause (2) by the Constitution (Forty-second) Amendment Act, 1976 . The amended clause (2) now reads as under: (2) The power conferred by clause (1) to issue directions, orders or writs to any Government, authority or person may also be exercised by any High Court exercising jurisdiction in relation to the territories within which the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises for the exercise of such power, notwithstanding that the seat of such Government or authority or the residence of such person is not within those territories. (3)-(4)	*	*	*
On a plain reading of the amended provisions in clause (2), it is clear that now the High Court can issue a writ when the person or the authority against whom the writ is issued is located outside its territorial jurisdiction, if the cause of action wholly or partially arises within the courts territorial jurisdiction. Cause of action for the purpose of Article 226(2) of the Constitution, for all intent and purpose must be assigned the same meaning as envisaged under Section 20(c) of the Code of Civil Procedure. The expression cause of action has not been defined either in the Code of Civil Procedure or the Constitution. Cause of action is bundle of facts which is necessary for the plaintiff to prove in the suit before he can succeed. The term cause of action as appearing in clause (2) came up for consideration time and again before this Court. 10. In State of Rajasthan v. Swaika Properties [ 1985(3) SCC 217], the fact was that the respondent Company having its registered office in Calcutta owned certain land on the outskirts of Jaipur City, was served with notice for acquisition of land under the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959 . Notice was duly served on the Company at its registered office in Calcutta. The Company, first appeared before the Special Court and finally the Calcutta High Court by filing a writ petition challenging the notification of acquisition. The matter ultimately came before this Court to answer a question as to whether the service of notice under Section 52(2) of the Act at the registered office of the respondent in Calcutta was an integral part of cause of action and was it sufficient to invest the Calcutta High Court with a jurisdiction to entertain the petition challenging the impugned notification. Answering the question this Court held: (Swaika Properties case5, SCC pp. 222-23, paras 7-8)
7. Upon these facts, we are satisfied that the cause of action neither wholly nor in part arose within the territorial limits of the Calcutta High Court and therefore the learned Single Judge had no jurisdiction to issue a rule nisi on the petition filed by the respondents under Article 226 of the Constitution or to make the ad interim ex parte prohibitory order restraining the appellants from taking any steps to take possession of the land acquired. Under sub-section (5) of Section 52 of the Act the appellants were entitled to require the respondents to surrender or deliver possession of the lands acquired forthwith and upon their failure to do so, take immediate steps to secure such possession under sub-section (6) thereof. 8. The expression cause of action is tersely defined in Mullas Code of Civil Procedure : (ii) the security of the State; (iii) the public safety or interest: It will thus appear that security of the state, public safety or interest, maintenance of public order and the maintenance of peaceful conditions in any part or area of India may be viewed separately even though strictly one clause may have an effect or bearing on another. Then follows Rule 30, which repeats the above conditions and permits detention of any person with a view to preventing him from acting in any of the above ways. The argument of Dr Lohia that the conditions are to be cumulatively applied is clearly untenable. It is not necessary to analyse Rule 30 which we quoted earlier and which follows the scheme of Section 3(15) . The question is whether by taking power to prevent Dr Lohia from acting to the prejudice of law and order as against public order the District Magistrate went outside his powers. 51. We have here a case of detention under Rule 30 of the Defence of India Rules which permits apprehension and detention of a person likely to act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. It follows that if such a person is not detained public disorder is the apprehended result. Disorder is no doubt prevented by the maintenance of law and order also but disorder is a broad spectrum which includes at one end small disturbances and at the other the most serious and cataclysmic happenings. Does the expression public order take in every kind of disorders or only some of them? The answer to this serves to distinguish public order from law and order because the latter undoubtedly takes in all of them. Public order if disturbed, must lead to public disorder. Every breach of the peace does not lead to public disorder. When two drunkards quarrel and fight there is disorder but not public disorder. They can be dealt with under the powers to maintain law and order but cannot be detained on the ground that they were disturbing public order. Suppose that the two fighters were of rival communities and one of them tried to raise communal passions. The problem is still one of law and order but it raises the apprehension of public disorder. Other examples can be imagined. The contravention of law always affects order but before if can be said to affect public order, it must affect the community or the public at large. A mere disturbance of law and order leading to disorder is thus not necessarily sufficient for action under the Defence of India Act but disturbances which subvert the public order are. A District Magistrate is entitled to take action under Rule 30(1)(b) to prevent subversion of public order but not in aid of maintenance of law and order under ordinary circumstances. 52. It will thus appear that just as public order in the rulings of this Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend disorders of less gravity than those affecting security of State, law and order also comprehends disorders of less gravity than those affecting public order. One has to imagine three concentric circles. Law and order represents the largest circle within which is the next circle representing public order and the smallest circle represents security of State. It is then easy to see that an act may affect law and order but not public order just as an act may affect public order but not security of the State. By using the expression maintenance of law and order the District Magistrate was widening his own field of action and was adding a clause to the Defence of India Rules. (xv) (1972) 3 SCC 845, ( Kishori Mohan Bera v. State of W.B ), wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows:- (xvi) (2011) 10 SCC 86 (Asha Sharma v. Chandigarh Admn) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held as follows:- (iv) Writ Petition No.2459 of 2015 ( SCOD 18 Networking Pvtg. Ltd. v. Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, New Delhi and others ), wherein the Bombay High Court held as follows:- In these circumstances, the learned Additional Solicitor General prayed for dismissal of the writ petitions. 11. On a careful consideration of the materials available on record and the submissions made by the respective learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners and the learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for the respondents and also the judgments relied upon by the learned counsel on either side, it could be seen that the petitioners herein have filed two sets of writ petitions. The first batch of writ petitions are W.P.Nos. 11476 & 11477 of 2015 to issue writs of mandamus to direct the respondents to permit the petitioners to move to Phase III policy for the respective FM Radio Stations by entering into Grant of Permission Agreement [GOPA]. The second batch of writ petitions are W.P.Nos.21810 to 21815 of 2015 filed by three companies and their shareholders to issue writs of Certiorarified Mandamus to call for the records of the 2nd respondent in their order dated 15th July, 2015, to quash the same and consequently direct the respondents 1 & 2 to permit the petitioners to migrate to FM Phase III Regime by allowing the petitioners to resubmit the bank guarantee and permitting the petitioners to participate in the forthcoming FM Station Phase III Auction pursuant to the Notice Inviting Application dated March 2nd 2015 for E-Auction of First batch of Private FM Radio Phase-III Channels. 12. It is not in dispute that the petitioners are running FM Radio Channels and the said companies are in existence for more than 10 years. The petitioners, in order to establish, operate and maintain FM Radio broadcasting stations, have obtained licenses under Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 under Phase-II Policy. The Phase-II Policy licenses were issued for a period of 10 years. By notice dated 1.1.2015, the 2nd respondent, addressed to all private FM Broadcasters to migrate to Phase-III policy and also to new entrants requesting them to provide information along with supporting documents sought by it as per proforma annexed therein. Pursuant to the same, the petitioner companies by their letter dated 02.01.2015 had furnished the details to the respondents as required by them. Subsequently, by notice dated 16.01.2015, the 2nd respondent, once again requested all Private FM broadcasters to submit the details of shareholders. By letter dated 20.1.2015, the petitioner companies submitted the details of all its shareholders to the 2nd respondent. Thereafter, by letter dated 24.02.2015, the 2nd respondent had requested the existing operators of Phase-II, like that of the petitioner companies opting to migrate to FM Phase-III, to fulfill certain conditions. According to the petitioner companies, they furnished the details on 17.03.2015 to the respondents. On 02.03.2015, the respondents had invited application for e-auction of the first batch of private FM Radio Phase-III Channels. The petitioner companies, who are operating 18 Radio Stations, in order to bid in the auction for further Stations in Phase-III, submitted their applications with all required documents and necessary fees on 27.03.2015. After the submission of the applications, on 15.07.2015, the 2nd respondent published a list of broadcasters, who are permitted to migrate from Phase-II to Phase-III in its official website. However, petitioner companies names did not find a place in the said list. The petitioners came to understand that their companies names did not figure in the said list for the reason that the Ministry of Home Affairs had denied security clearance to the petitioner companies. On the next day, i.e., on 16.07.2015, the petitioners were served with the communication from the 2nd respondent dated 15.07.2015, giving the reasons for the denial of security clearance in respect of the petitioner companies. Challenging the orders dated 15.07.2015 passed by the 2nd respondent, the petitioners have filed W.P.Nos.21810 to 21815 of 2015. 13. The FM Radio Broadcasting Stations were launched at Chennai, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Vishakapatinam in the year 2003 and the said licenses were for a period of 10 years. By notice dated 24.2.2015, the 2nd respondent had requested the existing operators of Phase-II like that of the petitioners in W.P.Nos.11476 & 11477 of 2015 opting to migrate to FM Phase-III to fulfill certain conditions, which according to the petitioners were fulfilled and furnished to the respondents on 06.03.2015. Pursuant to the filfillment of the conditions to enable the petitioners to migrate from Phase-II to Phase-III, the 2nd respondent, by letter dated 26.03.2015, had stated that the Government had decided to provisionally extend the license period of the petitioners' channels at Chennai, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Vishakapatinam on conditions, as prescribed in migration Grant of Permission Agreement under Phase-II, for a period of six months or migration to FM Phase-III, whichever is earlier to pay the non-refundable one time migration fee with effect from 1.4.2015. The petitioner companies, as per the requirement, furnished bank guarantee and undertaking to the respondents on 30.03.2015. The petitioners came to understand that the licenses of all other private FM broadcasters of Phase-I operating in Phase-II were extended for a further period of 6 months from 04.04.2015, however, the petitioners have not received any reply from the respondents extending the period of license . Thereafter, the petitioner companies sent a letter dated 02.04.2015 requesting the respondents to issue the permission for extension of licenses. In spite of the said letter dated 2.4.2015, the respondents did not send any reply. Thereafter, on 10.04.2015, the petitioner companies sent another representation to the respondents and a reminder on 16.04.2015. In spite of receiving the letters, the respondents have not extended the licenses of the petitioner companies. In these circumstances, the petitioner companies have filed W.P.Nos.11476 &11477 of 2015 to issue writs of mandamus. 14. The first issue that arise for consideration in these writ petitions is with regard to jurisdiction of the Madras High Court in entertaining the writ petitions. The learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that as per clause 4.22.2 of Notice Inviting Application (NIA) only the Delhi High Court has got jurisdiction and the Madras High Court has got no jurisdiction to entertain the writ petitions. The learned Senior Counsels appearing for the petitioners submitted that clause 4.22.2 of NIA is applicable only if there arises a dispute out of or in respect of the Notice Inviting Applications, e-auctions and its terms and conditions for award of FM Radio licenses under Phase-III and in the present writ petitions, the petitioners have neither challenged the Notice Inviting Applications nor e-auctions and its terms and conditions for award of FM Radio licenses under Phase-III, but have challenged only the orders dated 15.07.2015 passed by the second respondent denying security clearance, which are independent orders on arbitrary, illegal grounds violating Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Hence, it would be appropriate to extract 4.22 of NIA, which reads as follows:- 15. On a reading of clause 4.22.2, it could be seen that the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi shall alone have the jurisdiction over all disputes arising out of or in respect of the Notice Inviting Applications, e-auctions and its terms and conditions for award of FM Radio Licenses under Phase-III. In the present case, the petitioners have neither challenged the Notice Inviting Applications or e-auctions and its terms and conditions for award of FM Radio Licenses under Phase-III nor they have questioned the terms and conditions of the Notice Inviting Applications or e-auctions. They have submitted their applications fully accepting the terms and conditions. The only grievance of the petitioners is that the order denying security clearance is arbitrary, illegal, discriminatory, which is violative of Articles 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. It is also pertinent to extract Article 226 (2) of the Constitution of India, which reads as follows:- 16. As rightly contend by the learned Senior counsel for the petitioners, as per clause 26 of the Grant of Permission Agreement [GOPA], Arbitration is the remedy for any dispute but, the said clause becomes applicable only when the petitioners are permitted to migrate into phase-III policy for the new and the old stations by entering into GOPA and thereafter, if there arises any dispute with regard to the terms and conditions of the said agreement, the dispute resolution is by way of Arbitration. 17. The respective learned Senior Counsels appearing on behalf of the petitioners specifically stated that the petitioners have not challenged the terms and conditions of the NIA viz., clause 3.2.1 and 3.8 of the NIA and that they have only challenged the orders dated 15.7.2015 denying the security clearance to the petitioner companies. Since the petitioners are not challenging any one of the clause in the NIA, they cannot be prevented from challenging the impugned orders dated 15.7.2015 before this court. 18. It is also not the case of the respondents that no part of cause of action arose within the territorial jurisdiction of this court. The respondents only relied upon class 4.22.2 of the NIA for ousting the jurisdiction of this court. The ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the judgment reported in 2014 (9) SCC 329 (cited supra) squarely applies to the facts and circumstances of the present case. 19. In the present writ petitions, since the petitioners have challenged only the independent orders denying security clearance and not the terms and conditions of licenses as envisaged under GOPA which the petitioner companies are not permitted to sign till this date, the said Arbitration clause is also not applicable to the petitioners. Moreover, the jurisdiction clause viz., clause 4.22.2 of the NIA shall not oust the writ jurisdiction of this court under Article 226(2) of the Constitution of India. When the petitioner companies are having their registered office in Chennai and all its official activities are taking place in Chennai and the impugned orders were also served on the petitioners in Chennai, this court has got jurisdiction to entertain the writ petitions. 20. According to the petitioner in W.P.No.21810 of 2015, viz.,M/s.Sun TV Network Ltd., it is a public limited company incorporated in the year 1985 and its shareholders are from India as well as from foreign countries. The petitioner claims that it is a largest television broadcaster in the South Asain States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and Karnataka and the Board of Directors comprises of 8 Directors out of which, 4 are independent Directors. The petitioner company further stated that it offers 33 television channels in 4 languages, including the flagship channel, Sun TV, which was launched in 1993 and was one of India's first regional satellite television channels. The petitioner company also launched Tamil FM Radio Stations in Chennai, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli under the name of Suryan FM. 21. According to the petitioner in W.P.No.21812 of 2015, viz.,M/s.Kal Radio Ltd., it is engaged in the business of broadcasting FM Radio under the brand name Kal Radio and is in existence from 07.10.2005 and claims to be one of the leading entertainment channel in South India having invested an amount of Rs.150.22 crores and is also offering employment to 348 direct persons in the said channels and is in operation from 2006. The petitioner further stated that it contributed Rs.45.31 crores to the State Exchequer towards license

fee, incidental fees and share of gross revenue, etc. and also made a payment of Rs.55.95 crores towards service tax, TDS and income tax and it has also been awarded with 15 awards. 22. According to the petitioner in W.P.No.21814 of 2015, viz.,M/s.South Asia FM Ltd., it is engaged in the business of broadcasting FM Radio under the brand name South Asia FM and is in existence from 09.11.2005 and it has invested an amount of Rs.140.80 crores and is also offering employment to 395 direct persons in the said channels apart from providing employment to hundreds of persons indirectly. The petitioner company further stated that it made payment of Rs.49.76 crores to the State Exchequer towards license fee, incidental fees and share of gross revenue, etc. and also made a payment of Rs.60.35 crores towards service tax and TDS and income tax and it has also been awarded with 38 awards. The petitioner company would further state that they have obtained license under section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 under Phase-II Policy from the 1st respondent and are maintaining and operating FM radio broadcasting station and the said license was for a period of 10 years. 23. The next issue that arise for consideration is with regard to correctness of the order passed by the 2nd respondent denying security clearance of the petitioner companies. 24. The petitioner companies contended that the Indian Telegraph Act , does not deal with the security clearance and the petitioner companies did not commit any act with regard to breach of security of the nation and they did not broadcast anything which affected the security of nation. The learned counsel on either side placed reliance on 3.2, 3.8, 4.16, 4.18 and 10.8 of the Notice Inviting Applications. Therefore, it would be appropriate to extract the above said clauses, which reads as follows:- Note 4: The terms Same Management, Subsidiary Company and Holding Company shall have the same meaning as assigned to them under section4 of the companies Act, 1956 and Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013. Note 5: The terms Onter-Connected Undertakings shall have the same meaning as assigned to it as per the prevalent laws in India

	Note 6: If the applicant and the subsidiary company/holding company/company with the same management/Inter-Connected Undertaking submit more than one bid for the same City, all such bids shall be rejected. Note 7: For the purpose of sub clause(1) above, the defaulter of phase-I who had accepted revocation of their LOI and exercised te option to participate in Phase-II bidding and who were subsequently permitted to participate in Phase-II bidding, shall be permitted to participate in Phase-III bidding also. 3.8 Security Clearance

The company as well as all Directors on the Board shall be security cleared. Ministry shall take security clearance of the company as well its Directors from relevant Government Authorities. The information to be provided by prospective bidders for security clearance along with the Application is given at Annexure 10.8. the company shall take prior permission of the Government before effecting any change in the Board of Directors. 4.16 National Security and Other Conditions 

4.16.1 The Government of India, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting shall have the right to temporarily suspend the permission of the permission holder in public interest or for national security for such period or periods as it may direct. The company shall immediately comply with any directives issued in this regard failing which the permission issued shall be revoked and the company disqualified to hold any such permission in further for a period of five years

4.16.2 The company shall not use any equipment, which are identified as unlawful and/or render network security vulnerable. 4.16.3 The permission holder shall be required to obtain security security clearance of all foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days in a year by way of appointment, contract and consultancy or in any other capacity for installation, maintenance, operation or any other services prior to their deployment. 4.16.4 The permission shall be subject to permission holder remaining security cleared throughout the currency of permission. In case the security clearance is withdrawn the permission granted is liable to be terminated forthwith. 4.16.5 In the event of security clearance of any of the persons associated with the permission holder or foreign personnel is denied or withdrawn for any reasons whatsoever, the permission holder will ensure that the concerned persons resigns or his services terminated forthwith after receiving such directives from the Government failing which the permission granted shall be revoked and the company shall be disqualified to hold any such permission in future for a period of five years. 4.18 Penalties
4.18.1 In case there is any violation of conditions cited in Clause 4.5.1, 4.5.2 and 4.6.1, Government may suo motto or on basis of complaints take cognizance and place the matter before the Inter- ministerial Committees on Programme and Advertising Codes for recommending appropriate penalties on the recommendation of the Committee a decision to impose penalties shall be taken. However, before the imposition of a penalty the Permission Holder shall be given an opportunity to represent its case. The Ministry shall however be at liberty to specify any other mechanism to take action for such violations. 4.18.2	Except wherever provided otherwise, in the event of a permission holder violating any of the terms and conditions of permission, or any other provisions of the FM Radio policy, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shall have the right to impose the following penalties. 4.18.2.1 In the event of first violation, suspension of the permission and prohibition of broadcast up to a period of 30 days. 4.18.2.2 In the event of second violation, suspension of the permission and prohibition of broadcast up to a period of 90 days. 4.18.2.3 In the event of third violation, revocation of the permission and prohibition of broadcast up to the remaining period of the permission. 4.18.2.4 In the event of any violation as mentioned in Clause 4.18.2, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shall be well within its right to award a lesser penalty which may include issuance of an advisory or a warning or a direction to run an apology on the channel or in any other manner depending on the gravity of the violation. 4.18.2.5 In the event of the failure of the permission holder to comply with the penalties imposed within the prescribed time, revocation of permission and prohibition to broadcast for the remaining period of the permission and disqualification to hold any fresh permission in future for a period of five years. 4.18.3 In the event of suspension of permission the permission holder will continue to discharge its obligations under the terms and conditions of permission including the payment of fee. 4.18.4 In the event of revocation of permission, the Government shall not be responsible for any investment towards the opertionalisation of the channel, not limited to capital and operating expenditure, in case of imposition of any penalty referred above. 4.18.5 The Performance Bank Guarantee deposited by the permission holder for the channel may also be forfeited for failure to comply with any of the terms and conditions of GOPA. 4.18.6 All the penalties mentioned above shall be imposed only after giving a written notice to the permission holder to fully rectify the violation within a period of 15 days, failing which he shall be liable for the proposed penalty. 10.8 Format for security Clearance (i) In respect of Company/Firm (Indian/Foreign)
l.No.
Full Name of Companies and its Foreign collaborator if any, including the details of Board of Directors as (ii) below
Date of Registration
Present & Permanent Address of Head Office, Regional Offices and Registered Office
Joint Venture with other business owned
Activities and other business owned
Name of CEOs/Partners (with details) as in (ii) below
Shareholding pattern of applicant company (and investigating company, if applicable)
Ultimate ownership of shareholding companies (and the investigating company if applicable) along with detailed particulars of owners as in (ii) below

Foreign investee/partner company self-declaration regarding presence/operation in China & Pakistan (If any) (ii) Details in respect of Directors/Key Executives

Sl.No.
Full Name of Board of Directors/ Key executive (CEO, Head of Finance & Head of Marketing)
Present Position held with Date (Since when)
Date of Birth
Parentage
Complete Present & permanent address
Nationality
Passport Nos. and issue date, if any
Contact Address & telephone number if any (iii) Details of Shareholders (All firms/companies/entities to be included. Also, individuals having shareholding more than 10%)

Sl.No.
Full Name 
Parentage Father/M other
Date of Birth
Permanent Address
Complete Present address
Present position held
Nationality if (if hold dual nationality, both must be clearly mentioned)
% of shares held in other company (if any) then name of company & complete address may be provided 25. It is also appropriate to extract the impugned order passed agaisnt the petitioner in W.P.No.21810 of 2015. Whereas Ministry of Home Affairs has denied security clearance to Sun TV Network Ltd., for the following reasons: On the above three grounds, the second respondent had denied security clearance to the petitioners. 35. Admittedly, in none of the above mentioned cases, the petitioners were convicted. Even according to the respondents, the above referred cases are still pending. It was submitted before this court that the prosecution had filed charge sheet in Aircel-Maxis case, however, the charges are yet to be framed. In the telephone line case, even the investigation is not yet been completed. In the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act , in which First Information Report was registered in the year 2011, charge sheet was filed in the year 2014 and the charges are yet to be framed. In the impugned order, the second respondent has stated the above mentioned economic offences are of serious nature, adversely impinging upon economic integrity of the country. So far as economic integrity is concerned, this expression has not been defined anywhere in the Notice Inviting Applications. This expression has been mentioned for the first time in the impugned order and sought to be explained in the counter filed by the respondents. 36. At this juncture, it is also pertinent to note that the common counter affidavit dated 21.8.2015 and the additional common counter affidavit dated 29.10.2015 were filed by the Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, New Delhi, defending the impugned order passed by the second respondent. Since the petitioners are challenging the denial of security clearance by the third respondent, it would have been appropriate for the third respondent to have filed a counter affidavit stating the reasons for the denial of security clearance. Though the Deputy Secretary, Information and Broadcasting, has stated in his counter that he is filing the counter affidavit based on the inputs from the Ministry of Home Affairs, the third respondent would have been in a better position to explain the stand taken by them for denial of security clearance. The third respondent has not filed any separate counter affidavit in the writ petitions. 37. Having mentioned the disqualifications for applying for the tender in clause 3.2.1(b), clause 3.8 cannot be independent on its own with regard to the security clearance. It has to be read inconsonance with clause 3.2.1(b) which clearly states the ground for disqualification. That apart, the applicants are required to submit a form as per clause 10.8 of the NIA which is a format for security clearance and the said format does not require the applicants to submit the details of the pendency of the criminal cases, which shows that pending criminal case was never a criteria for consideration for the purpose of security clearance. 38. Admittedly, during the operation of the petitioners' FM Radio stations, the petitioners have not received any adverse notice with regard to its operation and the petitioner companies are carrying on business strictly in accordance with law. 39. It is also not the case of the respondents that the petitioner companies have misused their licenses granted to FM Radio Stations for the alleged criminal activities mentioned in the impugned orders or that they have violated the terms and conditions of the licenses. In the impugned orders dated 15.7.2015, with regard to telephone line case, it has been stated that there is a alleged loss of Rs.443 crores caused by Shri Dayanithi Maran bysetting up 300 illegal telephone lines at the residence of Shri Kalanithi Maran to facilitate Sun TV services. Whereas, on a perusal of the First Information Report dated 23.7.2013, registered by the CBI, it has been stated that there was a wrongful loss to the tune of Rs.1,20,87,769/- caused to the BSNL by Shri Dayanithi Maran. Even in the counter filed by the CBI before this court in Crl.O.P.No.18493 of 2015 in Cr.O.P.No.16152 of 2015-07-16 in FIR No.RC DST/2013/A/0019/CBI/STF.DLI on the file of the Deputy Superintendent of Police, CBI, STF, New Delhi, it has been stated in paragraph No.18, that during the investigation, an estimated loss amounting to Rs.1,78,71,391/- was arrived at, towards the wrongful loss caused to the Government exchequer and corresponding gain to the accused persons viz., Shri Dayanithi Maran. That apart, in the counter affidavit field by the CBI before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.L.P.(Criminal) No.6582-6583 of 2015, in paragraph No.16, it has been stated that the estimated loss was only Rs.1,78,71,391/- and nowhere it has been stated by the Investigating Authority, viz., CBI that there was a loss of Rs.443 crores. When the Investigating Authority themselves say that the estimated loss was only Rs.1,78,71, 391/-, as rightly contended by the learned Senior Counsels for the petitioners, the alleged loss of Rs.443 crores, in the absence of any materials to substantiate the same, can only be an imaginary amount. 40. Further, it has been alleged in the impugned orders that 300 telephone lines were installed at the residence of Shri Kalanithi Maran to facilitate SUN TV Services. However, on a perusal of the First information Report filed by the CBI, viz., the Investigating Authority, it is clear that there is no such allegation made by the CBI. It has not been stated that the telephone lines were set up at the residence of Shri Kalanithi Maran and it is also not the case of the CBI that the telephone lines were set up at the residence of Shri Kalanithi Maran. The stand taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs is contrary to the First Information Report filed by the CBI. 41. Though the Ministry of Home Affairs has got right to deny security clearance to the petitioner companies, it has to be done on well-founded grounds and within the four corners of law. Clause 4.16 of the Notice Inviting application speaks about the National Security and the said clause nowhere speaks or spells in clear words the economic threat is national security. What is not spelt out in the NIA cannot be improved by the respondents subsequently by way of counter affidavits. 42. In (2014) 5 SCC 409 (cited supra), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that what is in the interest of national security is not a question of law. It is a matter of policy and it is not for the court to decide whether something is in the interest of the State or not. Further, the Apex Court held that the court can satisfy itself whether there are justifiable facts and in that regard, the court is entitled to call the files and see whether it is a case where the interest of national security is involved and once the State is of the stand that the issue involved national security, the court shall not disclose the reasons to the affected the party. 43. Keeping in mind the ratio laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, this court called for the file from the Ministry of Home Affairs and the learned Additional Solicitor General produced the file before this court. 44. Though I would not disclose factual details contained in the file, on a perusal of the file, I can indicate the conclusions drawn in the form of notings by the officials concerned on the basis of materials on record. The Intelligence Bureau (Ministry of Home Affairs) has stated that there are no adverse report against the Directors/Key Executives of the petitioner companies from the security point of view and that enquires are in progress against Shri Dayanithi Maran and Shri Kalanithi Maran in respect of Aircel-Maxis case, money laundering case and setting up of 300 telephone lines at the residence of Shri Kalanithi Maran. In spite of the report of the Intelligence Bureau, the third respondent had denied security clearance to the petitioner companies by Office Memorandum dated 30.3.2015. In the said Memorandum, the third respondent had given security clearance to 17 other companies and denied security clearance to the petitioner companies viz., (i) M/s.Sun TV Network Ltd., (ii) M/s.Udaya FM Private Limited, (iii) M/s Kal Radio Ltd., and (iv) M/s. South Asia FM Ltd. After the denial of security clearance by the third respondent, which was communicated to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the Hon'ble Minister of Information & Broadcasting, by his letter dated 1.4.2015 to the Hon'ble Minister of Home Affairs had requested the Hon'ble Minister of Home Affairs to reconsider the decision conveyed in the Official Memorandum dated 30.3.2015. However, the request made by the Hon'ble Minister of Information and Broadcasting was negatived by the Hon'ble Minister of Home Affairs. 45. From the contents of the file of the Ministry of Home Affairs produced by the learned Additional Solicitor General, it is clear that the petitioner companies or its Directors/Key Executives have not come to any adverse notice from the security point of view. In these circumstances, the third respondent should not have denied security clearance to the petitioner companies. 46. Admittedly, the three cases referred in the impugned order dated 15.7.2015 are pending till today. It is well settled position of law that the accused is presumed to be innocent, unless the guilt is proved beyond reasonable doubt/beyond all probabilities and therefore, the said presumption for the accused operates in favour of the said accused. If the alleged offences are not proved, the denial of security clearance would result in the petitioner companies being punished even before the trial, which would greatly prejudice the petitioners. 47. In the counter affidavit filed by the respondents before this court, they relied upon the adverse remarks made by the learned Single Judge of this court in W.P.Nos.23444 & 23445 of 2014 as against two individuals. However, on an appeal filed by the petitioners therein against the order of the learned Single Judge dated 5..9.2014, the Division Bench of this court in W.A.Nos. 1253 to 1255 of 2014, by judgment dated 29.9.2015,set aside the adverse remarks

 made against the two individuals in W.P.Nos.23444 & 23445 of 2014. The relevant portion of the judgement is extracted below:- 48. Since the adverse remarks made in the writ petitions were expunged by the Division Bench of this court, the respondents cannot rely upon the said remarks now. Further, three criminal cases were cited in the impugned orders as the reasons for refusal to grant security clearance. As already stated, all the three criminal cases are at the prosecution stage and have not yet been completed. The reasons cited for the denial of security clearance are the criminal cases pending against Shri Dayanithi Maran. It has been clearly demonstrated by the petitioners that Shri Dayanithi Maran has nothing to do with the petitioner companies and he is neither a Director nor a Shareholder of the companies. His alleged misdemeanour has no bearing on the petitioner companies since he is no way connected with the petitioner companies. Merely because Shri Kalanithi Maran is the brother of Shri Dayanithi Maran, the security clearance cannot be denied to petitioner companies in which Shri Kalanithi Maran is a Director. When it is clearly established by the petitioners that denial of security clearance to the petitioners on the ground that Shri Dayanithi Maran caused loss to the Government exchequer to the tune of Rs.443 crores by setting up 300 telephone lines at the residence of Shri Kalanithi Maran is incorrect, the impugned orders passed by the second respondent cannot be held to be correct orders. 49. The contention raised by the learned Additional Solicitor General that the amount mentioned in the First Information Report and in the counter affidavit of the CBI represents only the service charges and not the actual loss sustained by the Government, cannot be accepted for the reason that both in the FIR as well as in the counter affidavit filed by the CBI, they have fixed the loss only at Rs.1,20,877,769/- and Rs.1,78,71,391/- respectively. When the impugned order says that there was a loss of Rs.443 crores, the respondents should have explained the reasons for not mentioning the said amount both in the FIR as well as in the counter affidavit. When the Investigating Authority has stated only Rs.1,78,71,391/- in the counter affidavit filed before this court, as well as before the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners submitted that when the Government decides to grant licenses to the companies accused in the Official Secrets Act and other scams and to companies, who have pending criminal cases, refusing to grant license for ulterior reasons to the petitioner companies and terming the same as policy decision, is nothing, but violative of Articles, 14 , 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Since the materials with regard to the other companies were not placed before this court, I am not giving any finding with regard to the said contention. 50. The contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General that clause 3.2.1 and clause 3.8 operate in different fields and that if 3.2.1 alone is accepted then, there is no need to have clause 3.8 in the tender document, cannot be accepted for the reason that both clause 3.2 and clause 3.8 find place under one caption, viz., III. Eligibility Criteria. Both, disqualification under cause 3.2 and security clearance under clause 3.8 comes under the heading Eligibility Criteria. If the contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General is accepted, then there will be no necessity for having 3.2.1(b) in the Eligibility Criteria in the NIA as a disqualification. 51. The learned Additional Solicitor general submitted that even if the applicants are held to be qualified to participate in the tender, the eligible candidates are subject to security clearance under clause 3.8. However, clause 3.8 of the NIA does not say that even if an applicant is eligible to participate in the tender under clause 3.2 of the NIA, the participation of the applicants is subject to the security clearance under clause 3.8. In the absence of any specific provision to the effect that the eligibility contemplated under clause 3.2 is subject to the security clearance under clause 3.8, the contention of the respondents cannot be accepted. 52. The query and response to the Notice Inviting Applications dated 2.3.2015, which is enclosed by the learned counsel for the respondents along with their reply dated 9.5.2015 is the answers given by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. Since this court is considering the clauses 3.2, 3.8 and 10.8 in this order, the answers given by the respondents 1 and 2 with regard to the clauses mentioned in the NIA have no relevance. 53. In the reply filed by the respondents it has been stated that the judgment of the Bombay High Court dated 30.10.2015 was not stayed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and therefore, it is good law and that the Bombay High Court has considered the issue of security clearance and by implication upheld the need to take security clearance even in the cases were there is no conviction. However, on a reading of the judgment of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court it could be seen that in paragraph No.55, the Division Bench held that the arguments made before the learned Single Judge and before the Division Bench of the Madras High Court were slightly different and that the issue of withdrawal of security clearance was not raised directly as before the Bombay High Court. That apart, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court also held that the notice and hearing was insisted upon and that was denied by the Information & Broadcasting Ministry. Further, it has been held that though there was no adverse remarks in the file from the security point of view, the security clearance was denied. In these circumstances, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court distinguished the judgments of the Madras High Court made by the learned Single Judge in W.P.Nos.23444 and 23445 of 2015, dated 5.9.2014 and by the Division Bench of this court in the judgment dated 29.9.2015 in W.A.Nos.1253 to 1255 of 2015. 54. When the Division Bench of Bombay High Court itself has stated that the facts in the said case is different from the facts of the cases disposed of by the Madras High Court, the ratio laid down by the Bombay High Court is not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case. 55. In the reply it has been stated by the respondents that Shri Kalanithi Maran is presently an NRI residing in a foreign country and the radio waves are extremely powerful and sensitive media. Further, they have stated that the State of Tamil Nadu is a sensitive State where the former Prime Minister was assassinated. In the rejoinder dated 25.5.2016 filed by the petitioners they have stated that Shri Kalanithi Maran is an Indian citizen and a permanent resident of Chennai. The petitioners have also produced the voter ID card issued by the Election Commission of India in the additional typed set of papers. 56. With regard to assassination of former Prime Minister, the petitioners have stated that it has nothing to do with the radio licenses case at hand. The petitioners in their rejoinder have stated that assassination of former Prime Minister and the present issue has no relevance at all and the said facts are also known to the respondents, but, with an ulterior intention to mislead the court, this type of unethical defamatory allegations are made by the respondents. Further, the petitioners have stated that the former Prime Minister of India was assassinated in the year 1991, however, by then, none of the petitioner companies was in existence and there is no relevance to mention about the said assassination in the present case. When the petitioners are in no way connected or involved in the case of assassination of the former Prime Minister, mentioning about the assassination of the former Prime Minister in the reply dated 09.05.2016 by the respondents is totally unwarranted and unnecessary. The respondents should have avoided such an argument in the reply, which has nothing to do with the radio licenses case at hand. 57. The contention of the respondents that Shri Kalanithi Maran is an NRI and residing in foreign country is also not supported by any evidence whatsoever. The said contention is also disproved by the petitioners by producing voter ID card issued by the Election Commission of India. 58. In the case on hand, the alleged criminal proceedings are pending against Shri Dayanithi Maran, which is put against the petitioner companies for denial of security clearance, who is neither a Director nor a majority shareholder controlling the companies. The contention of the respondents that though the said individual is neither a Director nor a majority shareholder, the lifting of corporate veil will reveal that the alleged individual is the controlling person. 59. By order dated 15.7.2015, the respondents also denied security clearance to M/s.Digital Radio (Mumbai) Broadcasting Limited . The said order was challenged before the Delhi High Court in W.P.(C) No.6891 & 6892 of 2015 and the Division Bench of Delhi High Court set aside the impugned order by its judgment dated 26.7.2015 and held as follows: 60. Challenging the order of the Delhi High Court, the respondents preferred an appeal before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in S.L.P.(C) No.34468-34469/2015 and the Hon'ble Supreme Court dismissed the SLP by order dated 29.01.2015 finding that no ground for interference was made out in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 136 fo the Constitution of India. 61. The findings of the Division Bench of Delhi High Court, which was confirmed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, squarely applies to the facts and circumstances of the present case. 62. In the present case also the petitioner companies are in existence from 2005 and the cases against Shri Dayanithi Maran and Shri Kalanithi Maran were registered only in the year 2011 and therefore, the petitioner companies were not floated to camouflage any wrong in order to pierce the corporate veil. The purpose or intent behind piercing the corporate veil must be such that would seek to remedy a wrong done by the persons controlling the company. The petitioner companies are not alleged to be vehicles of any transgression of law and they have been functioning since 2005 without there being any allegation regarding their functioning resulting in any security concerns. As already stated, petitioner companies, which were incorporated more than 10 years ago, even before the alleged offences were committed and till date have not come to any adverse remarks by any of the authority, the question of piercing the corporate veil will not arise. In fact, the petitioner companies have been operating their licences under Phase-I and Phase-II for more than 10 years. Though the cases were registered against Shri Dayanithi Maran and Shri Kalanithi Maran in the year 2011, the petitioner companies have continued to operate their respective radio channels without any objection concerning security clearance issues. In the absence of any evidence to show that the operation of radio channels by the petitioner companies would create security concerns, the denial of security clearance by the second respondent cannot be accepted. 63. The ownership and control of a company were not enough to justify piercing the corporate veil. The court cannot pierce the corporate veil, even in the absence of third-party interests in the company, merely because it is thought to be necessary in the interests of justice. The corporate veil can be pierced only if there is some impropriety. The impropriety in question must be linked to the use of the company structure to avoid or conceal liability. To justify piercing the corporate veil, there must be both control of the company by the wrongdoers and impropriety, that is, use or misuse of the company by them as a device or facade to conceal their wrongdoing. However, the court would pierce the corporate veil only so far as it was necessary in order to provide a remedy for the particular wrong which those controlling the company had done. 64. In these circumstances, the contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General in respect of piercing the corporate veil cannot be accepted. 65. By order dated 23.7.2015, in M.P.Nos.4,4 and 4 of 2015 in W.P.Nos. 21810, 21812 and 21814 of 2015, this court permitted the petitioner companies to resubmit the bank guarantee and to participate in the forthcoming FM Radio Stations phase-III auction pursuant to the Notice Inviting Application dated 2.3.2015 for e-auctionof the I-phase of Private FM Radio Phase-III Channels, however, it was made clear that the result of the bid made/participation by the petitioners in pursuant to these interim orders, shall be kept in a sealed cover and be produced before this court and the participation of the petitioners in the e-auction is subject to the result of the writ petitions. 66. For the reasons stated above, the impugned orders dated 15.7.2015 denying the security clearance of the petitioner are liable to be set aside. Accordingly, the same are set aside. The petitioner companies in W.P.Nos.11476 & 11477 of 2015 are entitled to move to Phase- III policy for the FM Radio Stations at Chennai, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Vishakapatinam by entering into Grant of Permission Agreement [GOPA]. 67. Pursuant to the interim orders passed by this court, the petitioner companies participated in the tender and submitted their bids. The learned Additional Solicitor General produced the bids made by the applicants in a sealed cover before this court. Since this court is setting side the impugned orders dated 15.7.2015, the details of the bids made by the applicants, which were produced in the sealed cover, is returned back to the learned Additional Solicitor General along with the original files today. The respondents 1 and 2 are directed to announce the name of the successful bidders subject to the other conditions being fulfilled by the applicants. In the result, the writ petitions are allowed. No costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petitions are closed.