“The (telecom) Bill threatens the open, globally connected, secure and trustworthy Internet (in) several ways”, said the non-profit organisation Internet Society in its report on the Draft Indian Telecommunication Bill, 2022. It criticised the government’s provisions for an extensive licensing framework, broad definitions and identity verification requirements in the bill.

We find that the Bill’s provisions undermine the critical properties of the Internet as well as the enablers of an open and trustworthy Internet. It places unnecessary barriers and burdens on businesses and users alike, and harms user privacy. – Internet Society

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

Here are a few major problems in the telecom bill that the Internet Society flagged in its report:

The Internet Way of Networking (IWN) describes critical properties, that all together, “are what the Internet needs to exist and work for everyone.” These properties are: an accessible Infrastructure with a common protocol, a layered architecture of interoperable and reusable building blocks, decentralized management and distributed routing, a common global identifier system, and a technology-neutral general-purpose network. Internet Society’s report assesses the impact of the telecom bill on two properties of IWN. Here’s a brief on them:

A Technology Neutral, General-Purpose Network: The internet is designed to be a general purpose network and not optimised for voice, particular usage patterns, or special traffic characteristics. “The Internet is completely agnostic about the type of content that flows through it, guaranteeing neither quality nor connectivity, yet delivering enough of both to be a base layer for information services, commerce, communications, recreation, and more”.

Unrestricted Reachability: “Once a resource has been made available in some way by its owner, there is no blocking of use and access to that resource by third parties.”

“Internet shutdowns remain a disproportionate reaction that often only hides – instead of solving – a perceived problem, and can result in significant collateral damage. We believe Internet shutdowns harm societies, economies, and the global Internet infrastructure.”

“While the scope of use of the Telecom Development Fund has been enhanced to further increase the availability of Internet resources, the Bill missed the opportunity to foster collaboration between the Union, state, and district authorities for the maintenance of the existing telecom infrastructure. After twenty years of its introduction, about 50% of the Universal Service Obligation Fund remains unutilized. Despite the availability of funds there exists a stark rural-urban digital divide.”

According to the 2021 National Family Health Survey, 72.5 per cent of urban males and 51.8 per cent of urban females have used the Internet, against 48.7 per cent of rural males and 24.6 per cent rural females.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event