BRIEF STATEMENT OF FACTS AND REASONS FOR THE
 DECISION 1. Vide this judgment, this court shall dispose of the
 aforementioned complaint case filed by the complainant
 namely, M/s Amazon Distributors (P) Ltd. against the
 Accused no.1, namely, Sushma and Accused no.2, namely,
 Parveen in respect of the dishonour of one cheque bearing
 no.00007 dated 13.07.2019 for an amount of Rs. 1,28,294/-
 (Rs. One Lac Twenty-Eight Thousand Two Hundred and
 Ninety Four only) drawn on HDFC Bank, 14 B/6, Ground
 Floor, DB Gupta Road, Dev Nagar, New Delhi-110005
 (hereinafter referred to as the "Cheque in question"). 2. Pithily put, it is the case of the complainant company that
 the complainant is distributor of products of Kellogs, P&G.
 It is further case of the complainant that the accused no.2
 was working with the complainant as Sales Executive from
 06.10.2018 and it was his duty to get the orders from the
 customers, to get delivered the booked goods to customers,
 to collect the payment of delivered goods from the
 customers and to deposit the payment with the
 complainant. It is further the case of the complainant that
 the accused no.1 is the wife of the accused no.2. 3. It is further the case of the complainant that the accused
 No.2 used to book fake orders in the name of different
 customers in order to cheat the complainant and used to put
 forged stamp on the invoices of delivered goods in order to
 prove the delivery of goods to the customers. It is further
 alleged that the accused no.2 has cheated a sum of Rs.
 22,24,019/- from the complainant in conspiracy with his
 accomplices and has admitted that he has cheated a sum of CC No.13540/19 Page 2 of 15 Digitally signed by POONAM POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 4. It is further the case of the complainant that in discharge of
 his aforesaid debt and liability, the accused no.1 had issued
 the cheque in question for an amount of Rs.1,28,294/- in
 favour of the complainant company and when the same was
 presented for encashment, it was returned dishonored with
 remarks "payment stopped by drawer" and no payment was
 made to the complainant company even after 15 days of
 service of legal demand notice upon the accused and hence
 the complainant company moved this court with the present
 complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments
 Act, 1881 (hereinafter referred to as the " NI Act "). 5. In the pre-summoning evidence, AR of complainant
 company i.e. CW-1 examined himself on affidavit being
 Ex. CW1/X and placed on record certain documents i.e.
 complaint being Ex.CW1/Y, certificate of incorporation
 being Ex.CW1/1 (OSR), Minutes of meeting of board
 resolution being Ex.CW1/2 (OSR), Copy of DL of AR
 being Ex.CW1/3 (OSR), Copy of appointment letter of
 husband of the accused being Ex.CW1/4 (OSR) (Colly),
 Original cheque in question being Ex.CW1/5, Bank return
 memo being Ex.CW1/6, copy of police complaint being
 Mark CW1/7 (Colly), Legal demand notice being
 Ex.CW1/8, Postal receipts being Ex.CW1/9 (Colly),
 tracking report being Mark CW1/10. 6. Upon prima facie consideration of the pre-summoning
 evidence, only accused no.2, namely, Sushma (hereinafter
 referred to 'accused') was summoned vide order dated CC No.13540/19 Page 3 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 7. Upon appearance of the accused, notice under Section 251 ,
 Cr.P.C. was served upon her on 23.01.2023 to which she
 pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. At this stage, she
 admitted being the drawer of the cheque in question as well
 as her signatures therein. She stated that the cheque in
 question was given in a blank signed condition to her
 husband and she does not know what purpose he had used
 the same. She further stated that she does not know whether
 she had received the legal demand notice or not but
 admitted her address mentioned therein. She further stated
 that she does not know any transaction of her husband. 8. At this stage, admission and denial of documents under Section 294 Cr.P.C was conducted whereby the accused
 admitted the genuineness and correctness of the cheque in
 question and bank return memo. Accordingly, two
 witnesses were dropped from the list of witnesses. 9. After an oral application under Section 145 (2) NI Act
 moved on behalf of the accused was allowed, the AR of the
 complainant was re-called for his examination. He adopted
 his pre summoning evidence at the post summoning stage.
 He was duly cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the
 accused and discharged. Since no other witness was sought
 to be examined by the complainant company, complainant
 evidence was closed vide separate statement of the AR of
 complainant company dated 19.07.2024. 10.Thereafter, statement of accused under Section 313 read
 with Section 281 Cr.P.C was recorded whereby the entire
 incriminating evidence was put to her. At this stage, the CC No.13540/19 Page 4 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 11.Since the accused chose not to lead defence evidence, the
 matter was adjourned for advancement of final arguments. 12.Final arguments were heard and concluded on behalf of
 both the parties on 29.11.2024 and written submissions
 were also filed on behalf of both the accused. 13.Rival submissions have been considered and record of the
 case has been perused. 14.Defence of the accused is two-fold. Firstly; that she did not
 receive the legal demand notice. Secondly; that there is no
 legally enforceable debt or liability to the tune of the
 amount of the cheque in question in favour of the
 complainant and against the accused as on the date of its
 drawl or presentation. 15.Before delving into the facts of the present case, it is
 relevant to discuss the law applicable to the present
 proceedings. To bring home a liability under Section 138 of
 the NI Act, following elements must spring out from the
 averments in the complaint and the evidence adduced by
 the complainant, which are: 16.Once the other ingredients mentioned in the foregoing
 paragraph are established by the complainant, then as soon
 as the execution of cheque in question is admitted by the
 accused, a factual base is established to invoke the
 presumption of cheque having been issued in discharge, in
 whole or in part, of any debt or other liability by virtue of Section 118(a) read with Section 139 of NI Act. This is a
 reverse onus clause, which means that unless the contrary is
 proved, it shall be presumed that the cheques in question
 were drawn by the accused for a consideration and that the
 complainant had received it in discharge of a debt/ liability
 from the accused. In the case titled Bir Singh Vs. Mukesh
 Kumar , (2019) 4 SCC 197, it was held by Hon'ble Supreme
 Court of India that once the accused has admitted the
 signatures on the cheque in question, then the court is
 bound to raise presumption under Section 139 NI Act. 17. A wife can be prosecuted for dishonor of a cheque issued
 to discharge her husband's liability. (Reliance is placed on M. Jaishankar v. Sree Gokulam Chits and Finance Corpn.
 (P) Ltd. , 2020 SCC OnLine Mad 5550, decided on 04-12- CC No.13540/19 Page 6 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 18. In the present case, in order to discharge his initial burden
 to prove the aforementioned ingredients, AR of the
 complainant relied upon the complaint, his own evidence
 affidavits i.e. Ex.CW1/X and placed on record several
 documents being Ex.CW1/1 to Ex.CW1/10. Ld. Counsel
 for the complainant submitted that the accused has already
 admitted her signatures on the cheque in question of her
 account and hence presumption of the cheque in question
 having been issued in discharge of debt or other liability
 arises in favour of the complainant in terms of Section
 118(a) read with Section 139 of NI Act. He further argued
 that the accused has also admitted the genuineness and
 correctness of the bank return memo i.e. Ex.CW1/6 and
 cheques in question being Ex. CW1/5 and her address on
 the legal demand notice being Ex. CW1/8. He argued that
 the fact that the complainant company received no payment
 within 15 days of the service of the legal demand notice
 coupled with the admission of the accused, duly proves all
 the ingredients of the offence under Section 138 NI Act. He
 thus submitted that since all the ingredients laid down
 under Section 138 NI Act are fulfilled, the accused should
 be convicted. DEFENCE OF NON-RECEIPT OF LEGAL DEMAND
 NOTICE 19.Accused has raised her first defence that she did not receive
 the legal demand notice and hence the fifth and sixth
 ingredients of the offence are not fulfilled. It is submitted
 on behalf of the accused that the legal demand notice was
 deliberately not served by the complainant. 20. With respect to this defence, it is noteworthy that the address
 of the accused as mentioned on the legal demand notice being
 Ex. CW-1/9(Colly) and original postal receipt being Ex.
 CW-1/10(colly) has been admitted by her and the genuineness
 and correctness of these documents is not disputed by her.
 Therefore, it emerges that the legal demand notice, being
 properly addressed and posted by the complainant, as proved
 by the original postal receipts and tracking reports thereof is
 presumed to have been delivered to the accused in terms of Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and the accused
 has failed to rebut this presumption. 21. Further, it is an admitted fact that payment was not made by
 the accused within 15 days of the deemed receipt of the legal
 demand notice. It was held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of
 India in the decision cited as C.C. Alavi Haji vs. Palapetty
 Muhammed & Anr. (2007) 6 SCC 555 that a person who does
 not pay within 15 days of receipt of the summons from the
 Court along with the copy of the complaint under Section 138 of the Act, cannot obviously contend that there was no proper
 service of notice as required under Section 138 NI Act, by
 ignoring statutory presumption to the contrary under Section
 27 of the General Clauses Act and Section 114 of the Indian
 Evidence Act. Thus, the plea of the accused that the legal
 demand notice was never received by him is not tenable on
 this ground as well and is accordingly rejected. 22. Hence, in the case at hand, since the complainant has
 discharged his initial burden on the basis of the documents
 mentioned hereinbefore and the admissions of the accused, all
 the ingredients of the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act
 stand successfully established. Further, since the accused has CC No.13540/19 Page 8 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 23.In order to rebut the mandatory presumptions, the accused
 has raised the defence firstly, that there is no legally
 enforceable debt or liability to the tune of the amount
 mentioned on the cheque in question against the accused
 and in favour of the complainant company as on the date of
 its issuance or presentation. 24.It is further submitted on behalf of the accused that the
 cheque in question was issued as a security cheque to the
 complainant company by the husband of the accused at the
 inception of the business relationship between his husband
 and the complainant. It is further submitted on behalf of the
 accused that she is not aware of any transaction between
 her or her husband and the complainant company. It is
 argued on behalf of the accused that at the time of
 employing the husband of the accused the complainant
 company has opened a salary bank account of the accused's
 husband. Subsequently during the service tenure of the
 accused's husband, it is argued by the accused that the
 complainant company opened four bank accounts in the
 name of the accused's husband and one in the name of the
 accused. It is further argued that the complainant also got CC No.13540/19 Page 9 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 25.Per contra, Ld. Counsel for the complainant company
 argued that merely labelling the cheque in question as
 security cheque cannot absolve the accused from her
 liability under Section 138 NI Act. It is submitted on behalf
 of the complainant that the accused has admitted that the
 cheque in question was given by her to her husband to be
 given to the complainant. Further it is the case of the
 complainant that the husband of the accused used to book
 fake orders in the name of different customers with the
 complainant in order to cheat the complainant under deep
 conspiracy with other co-employees. It is further the case of
 the complainant that the husband of the accused with other
 co-employees of the complainant used to get delivery of
 booked goods at his godown etc. instead of customers shop
 and in order to show that the goods are delivered on credit,
 her husband used to put forged stamp on the invoices of
 delivered goods in order to prove the delivery of goods to
 the customers. Further her husband used to collect fake
 stamped invoices under the garb of collection of credit
 amount from the customers, and used to hand over his own
 personal cheques including cheque of his wife/accused with
 fake stamp of customers on the back side of the cheque to
 the complainant in order to show that the cheques are given CC No.13540/19 Page 10 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 26.Further it is the case of the complainant that the accused is
 merely labelling the cheque in question as a security
 cheque as there were several cheques that were issued by
 the husband of the accused to the complainant and there are
 17 connected cases between the same parties pending
 consideration before this court itself and that the accused
 has failed to explain as to how several cheques almost 17 in
 number were issued as security by her and her husband to
 the complainant. It is further submitted on behalf of the
 complainant that the accused has not taken any action
 whatsoever against the complainant against alleged misuse
 of cheque in questions. 27.Ld. Counsel for the complainant further argued that the
 presumption under Section 139 NI Act cannot be rebutted
 on a mere evasive denial but by leading cogent evidence
 which the accused has failed to bring on record. He lastly
 submitted that the accused is trying to raise a frivolous and
 moonshine defence in order to evade her liability and the
 accused has clearly failed to rebut the mandatory
 presumptions that exist in favour of the complainant
 company and hence he should be convicted. 28.Upon a careful perusal of the record and on patiently CC No.13540/19 Page 11 of 15 POONAM
 SINGH Digitally signed by POONAM SINGH Date: 2025.01.22 17:01:43 +0530 hearing the parties at length, apropos the defence of the
 accused that the cheque in question was issued as a security
 cheque, it is pertinent to note that in the case in hand prima
 facie, the accused has failed to establish that the cheque in
 question was issued as a security cheque. Secondly, even if
 the fact that the cheque in question was issued for security
 purposes is successfully established by the accused and
 accepted by this court, the same alone does not probablise
 her defence. Reliance in this regard is placed by this court
 on the judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Sampelly Satyanarayana Rao Vs. Indian Renewable Energy
 Development Agency Ltd. , (2016) 10 SCC 458, Sunil Todi
 Vs. State of Gujarat & Anr., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1174,
 and Sripati Singh Vs. State of Jharkhand & Anr., 2021 SCC
 OnLine SC 1002 wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has held
 that merely because a cheque has been given for security
 purposes does not mean that there is no legally enforceable
 debt or liability in favour of the complainant, however, it
 does mean that the court has to see whether there exists a
 legally enforceable debt or liability as on the date
 mentioned on the cheque or whether a legally enforceable
 debt or liability has arisen at the time of presentation of the
 cheque. 29.Hence the moot question before this court is whether there
 was a legally enforceable debt or liability equivalent to the
 amount of the cheque in question in favour of the
 complainant company and against the accused as on the
 date of its drawl or presentation. 30.The accused has not proved anything to show that the
 cheque in question was given as a security cheque and has CC No.13540/19 Page 12 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 31.As regards the rebuttal of mandatory presumptions, it is a
 settled law that the presumption under Section 139 of the
 NI Act cannot be rebutted upon a mere denial but only by
 leading cogent evidence. Same was held by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court of India in the decision cited as K.N. Beena
 Vs. Muniyappan and Another ; (2001) 8 SCC 458. Further,
 the presumptions may be rebutted by the accused either by
 leading direct evidence and in exceptional cases, from the
 case set out by the complainant himself i.e. from the CC No.13540/19 Page 13 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 32.The accused has failed to support her plea of defence with
 cogent evidences and her plea are mere surmises and
 conjectures. There is nothing placed on record by the
 accused to show as to how several cheques almost 17 in
 number were given as security cheques by her husband to
 the complainant. Further there is nothing proved by
 accused to rebut that the alleged cheating/fraud was not
 committed by her husband. The accused has also failed to
 examine her husband or the persons mentioned by the
 complainant as co-conspirators of her husband in order to
 prove her case. The accused has also not put on record
 anything to show that she or her husband has complaint
 about the alleged misuse of the cheque in questions by the
 complainant. 33.The entire defence of the accused is nothing but a set of CC No.13540/19 Page 14 of 15 Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: 34.Consequently, this court has come to a conclusion that the
 accused has failed to rebut the mandatory presumptions as
 per law and tilt the scales in her favour, even on a scale of
 preponderance of probabilities, while the complainant has
 clearly succeeded in proving his case beyond reasonable
 doubt. FINAL ORDER 35.In view of the aforesaid discussion, this court finds the
 accused Sushma w/o Parveen guilty of the offence under Section 138 Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 and convicts
 her accordingly. Digitally
 signed by
 POONAM
 POONAM SINGH
 SINGH Date: