Even a month after the CoWIN data leak incident came to light, the government has not provided details regarding the status and findings of the investigation into the data breach. When Rajya Sabha members questioned the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology on July 21 if the government has identified those responsible for the breach, Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar replied:

“Taking cognizance of the cyber incident regarding CoWIN data in June 2023, CERT-In coordinated incident response measures with Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW). The MoHFW has lodged a complaint and F.I.R has been registered by a law enforcement agency, and CERT-In has provided inputs to facilitate investigation.”

MPs Syed Nasir Hussain, Dr. Amee Yajnik and Vivek K. Tankha raised the following questions:

Article continues below ⬇ , you might also want to read:

Why it matters: The Indian government had denied the breach of the CoWIN database , which contains vaccine-related and personal details of millions of Indians who had registered for vaccination during the Covid-19 pandemic. The data leak that first emerged through a Telegram bot triggered several questions about the protection of critical digital infrastructure from cyberattacks, especially in the health sector after the AIIMS data breach in November. The government, as well as the CERT-In, failed to provide answers to these critical questions raised by the public and opposition party members . Who is accountable for the data leak and ultimately, citizen privacy then? The government has chosen to avoid details and beat around the bush even in its response to parliamentary queries.

Everything’s all right, as per the government:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event