PER I.C. SUDHIR: JUDICIAL MEMBER
 The Revenue has questioned first appellate order on the following

grounds: 9. Whether the CIT(A) erred in holding that retrospectivity cannot
be read into amendments relying on the case of BJ Services Co.
Middle East Ltd. vs. DDIT not appreciating the fact that proviso to
sec. 44DA/44BB brought in by the Finance Act, 2011 was only
clarificatory in nature and its application has to be read into the Act in
view of the decision of the Apex Court in the case of Sedco Forex
International Drilling vs. CIT ." 2. The issue involved in the above grounds is as to whether the services

rendered in connection with 2D and 3D Seismic Data are in the nature of

fees for technical services (FTS) or should fall under sec. 44BB of the Act? 3. We have heard and considered the arguments advanced by the parties

in view of orders of the authorities below, material available on record and

the decisions relied upon. 4. The facts in brief are that during the year, the assessee received

revenue on account of the contract entered into with ONGC for providing

services of seismic survey to the data correction supervision for the purpose

of hydrocarbon reservoir exploitation, possible leak point identification and

core site selection from available 2D and 3D seismic data, core acquisition

with USBL System, sample processing, prevention and transportation,

laboratories analysis and interpretation and report. During the course of

assessment proceedings, the assessee was asked to explain why looking at

the nature of services, receipt may not be treated as fees for technical

services and tax accordingly. The Assessing Officer did not agree with the

explanation of the assessee and held that the assessee is rendering technical

services and, therefore, its income is not covered under sec. 44BB of the 5 Income-tax Act, 1961 and taxable as fees for technical services. The

Learned CIT(Appeals) on the other hand following the decision of Delhi

Bench of the ITAT in the case of CGG VERITAS - ITA No. 4653/Del/2010 - order dated 25.01.2012 has held that the income is assessable under sec.

44BB of the Act and not as fee for technical services. 5. In support of the grounds, the Learned CIT(DR) has basically placed

reliance on the assessment order. He submitted that while deciding the issue,

the Learned CIT(Appeals) has simply ignored the decision of Hon'ble

jurisdictional High Court in the case of CIT vs. ONGC - 2007.TII.03.H.C.UKHAND-INTL. The Ld.CIT(DR) pointed out that the

Delhi Bench of the ITAT in the case of Siem Offshore A.S. & Ors. Vs.

ADIT - ITA No. 1295/Del/2013 (A.Y. 2008-09) and ors. Vide order dated

09.09.2014 in view of the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case

of PGS Geophysical A.S. vs. ADIT - ITA Nos. 612 of 2012, order dated

09.07.2014 has set aside the matter to the file of the Assessing Officer to

verify the varying nature of the contract to decide the issue afresh regarding

the eligibility of assesee for the benefit made available u/s 44BB of the Act.

Learned CIT(DR) submitted that the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of

PGS Geophysical A.S. (supra) has been pleased to hold that the receipt of 6 the assessee can be taxed under sec. 44BB only if the assessee has a PE in

India during the relevant period and the contract entered into by the assessee

in India was effectively connected with the PE in India. 6. The Learned AR on the other hand pointed out that the issue raised in

the present appeal regarding the eligibility of the assessee to claim taxability

under sec. 44BB(1) of the Act is now fully covered in favour of the assessee

by the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of PGS Geophysical

AS vs. ACIT - 269 CTR 433 (Del.) holding that 2D and 3D Seismic

Services shall come within the ambit of section 44BB of the Income-tax Act,

1961. He submitted further that in the present case the Assessing Officer

himself in para No. 7 of the assessment order has accepted that the assessee

is having PE in India. The other condition laid down by the Hon'ble High

Court for the eligibility of claiming taxability under sec. 44BB of the Act

that Revenue of the assessee is effectively connected with PE in India is also

fully satisfied since the Assessing Officer himself has taxed assessee's

income under sec. 44DA of the Act after examining the aspect of PE and

effective connection with the PE in India regarding revenue of the assessee.

The Learned AR also referred the decision of Delhi Bench of the ITAT in

the case of M/s. Fugro Geotem AS Vs. ADIT- ITA No. 5823/Del/2011- 7 order dated 21.11.2014 holding that 2D and 3D Seismic Services shall come

within the ambit of sec. 44BB of the Act. He referred para No. 5 of the said

decision. He submitted further that facts in the case of CIT vs. ONGC (supra) are distinguishable, hence, it is not applicable in the present case. 7. Considering the above submission, we agree that facts in the case of CIT vs. ONGC (supra) relied upon by the Learned CIT(DR) are different as in that case the assessee was rendering services for inspection of the existing

control system of three units, whereas in the present case, the assessee was

providing services in connection with 2D and 3D seismic data. Having

almost similar facts, and the identified issue as to whether the assessee is

eligible for claiming the benefit of taxability under sec. 44BB(1) of the Act

is now covered by the decision of Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of

PGS Geophysical AS vs. ACIT (supra) wherein the Hon'ble High Court has

been pleased to hold that if the Assessing Officer finds that (i) the assessee

had a PE in India during the relevant period and (ii) if the first condition is

satisfied and the Assessing Officer finds that contract entered into by the

assessee with the contractor were effectively connected with the assessee's

PE in India then the income of the assessee would be computed under sec.

44B(1) of the Act. In the present case, there is no dispute that the assessee is

having PE in India as it is evident from the contents from page No. 7 of the 8 assessment order wherein the Assessing Officer has noted as "the PE of

assessee in India is not disputed as the assessee has filed the return under sec. 44BB offering its income as taxable in India". So far as the other

conditions that the Revenue of the assessee is effectively connected with PE

in India is concerned, it is found that the Assessing Officer has already

examined the effective connection of the Revenue of the assessee with the

PE in India while holding that the income of the assessee is taxable under sec. 44DA of the Act. The Delhi Bench of the ITAT in the case of Fugro

Geoteam AS vs. ADIT (supra) has noted that the ruling of AAR in the case

of Geophzika Torun SP. GO. Has been confirmed by the Hon'ble Delhi

High Court in the case of DIT vs. OHM Ltd. (2012)- 28 Taxman 120

(Del.). The said judgment of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of

Director of Income-tax vs. OSM Ltd. (supra) was followed by the Hon'ble

High Court in the assessment year 2008-09 in the case of PGS Geophysical

AS (supra). In the light of above judgments of Hon'ble jurisdictional High

Court, the ITAT held that for the relevant assessment year i.e. 2008-09, the

assessee is entitled to declare its income under the provisions of sec. 44BB of the Act. We thus respectfully following the above cited decisions hold

that the assessee is eligible to claim taxability of its income under the

provisions of sec. 44BB of the Act. The Learned CIT(Appeals) was thus 9 justified in holding so. The First Appellate Order in this regard is upheld.

The issue is thus decided in favour of the assessee and the ground Nos. 1 to

9 involving the issue are accordingly rejected. 7. In result, the appeal is dismissed. Decision pronounced in the open court on 22 .05.2015

 Sd/- Sd/- Draft proposed & placed before the second 22.05.2015
member
Draft discussed/approved by Second Member.