Chenab Times, a multilingual news platform, has filed a grievance with X (formerly Twitter) India following the suspension of its newly launched Kashmiri-language news account, @ChenabTimesKmr.

The move comes in response to what the organisation deems an “unjust suspension” of the account shortly after its launch.

Maryam Begum, Chairperson of Chenab Times Foundation, submitted a formal request seeking the account’s reinstatement. The appeal emphasises the significance of the platform’s Multilingual News Initiative (MNI), which aims to promote and preserve regional languages like Kashmiri, as well as lesser-known languages like Bhaderwahi and Sarazi.

The @ChenabTimesKmr account, launched on January 9 2025, provides news updates in the Kashmiri language. However, the account faced suspension after posting only three updates, with no explanation provided by X, stated founder of Chenab Times, Anzer Ayoob in a tweet.

Ayoob added that their initiative relies heavily on social media, especially X, with delays in addressing appeals causing significant interruptions. He further stated that the account was suspended for “the illogical reason of being an ‘inauthentic account'”.

In X India’s Transparency Report 2025, X states that “when it comes to enforcing the X Rules , we have a global team that manages this with 24/7 coverage in every language that X supports and endeavors to take into account regional and cultural context and complexities of the various markets.”

X offers channels for users in India to report grievances, including the Grievance Officer – India page, direct reporting from posts or accounts, and the Help Center. Furthermore, it states that users do not need to register with X to file a grievance. X reviews complaints under its Terms of Service and Rules, taking enforcement actions for any violations. X also assesses grievances for compliance with local legal requirements, such as court orders, when applicable.

Furthermore, it adds that “All team members are fluent in one or more of the languages spoken in India and participate in regular training on our tools and policies.”

Between November 26, 2024, and December 25, 2024, X received and processed grievances through its Grievance Officer – India channel, addressing various issues related to content and account actions.

Notably, X handled 639 appeals regarding account suspensions, but it did not overturn any upon review.

Among the grievances, users reported abuse/harassment (1,953) and ban evasion (4,247) most frequently, leading to X taking action on 1,263 and 310 URLs, respectively.

Other issues included misinformation/synthetic media (917 grievances, 70 URLs actioned), sensitive adult content (809 grievances, 703 URLs actioned), and hateful conduct (1,036 grievances, 67 URLs actioned).

The government introduced the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, requiring Significant Social Media Intermediaries (SSMIs) to publish monthly compliance reports. These reports must include data on various aspects, such as grievances received and actions taken.

Last year in November, The Wire reported that the Directorate of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) in Jammu and Kashmir has threatened legal action against The Chenab Times for its video report on the detention of an activist under the Public Safety Act (PSA) .

The Doda district administration accused the portal of spreading rumors and questioning its actions, despite the report presenting both administrative and family perspectives. Editor Anzer Ayoob defended the report’s adherence to ethical journalism standards, rejecting allegations of bias. The administration’s demand for organisational documents was termed harassment by Ayoob, who pledged compliance with all legal and ethical norms.

The warning letter was issued just days after the J&K Chief Minister, Omar Abdullah and also the Union Territory’s Information Minister assured the media that his government would “not resort to highhandedness” against journalists. Abdullah had said that if the media was “not allowed to function independently …. we will not be able to strengthen democracy.”

Subsequently in a post on X, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a non-profit organisation that advocates for press freedom said , “…Authorities must cease harassing the outlet’s journalists in retaliation for their work. As newly elected J&K Chief Minister @OmarAbdullah seeks to restore the region’s statehood, he must fulfill his electoral promise to uphold press freedom.”

We have reached out to X India with queries. We will update the copy as and when we receive a response from them.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event