SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Cancel your credit card before you die
DATE: 2017-01-05
SCORE: 1273
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5m5uav/cancel_your_credit_card_before_you_die/

--- POST TEXT ---

This is so priceless.

A lady died this past January, and HDFC Bank billed her for February and March for their annual service charges on her credit card, and added late fees and interest on the monthly charge.

The balance had been Rs.0.00 when she died, but now somewhere around Rs.6000.

A family member placed a call to HDFC Bank.Here is the exchange :

Family Member: 'I am calling to tell you she died back in January.'

HDFC Bank: 'The account was never closed and the late fees and charges still apply.'

Family Member: 'Maybe, you should turn it over to collections. '

HDFC Bank: 'Since it is two months past due, it already has been.'

Family Member: So, what will they do when they find out she is dead?'

HDFC Bank: 'Either report her account to frauds division or report her to the credit bureau, maybe both!'

Family Member: 'Do you think God will be mad at her?'

HDFC Bank: 'Excuse me?'

Family Member: 'Did you just get what I was telling you - the part about her being dead?'

HDFC Bank: 'Sir, you'll have to speak to my supervisor.'

Supervisor gets on the phone: Family Member: 'I'm calling to tell you, she died back in January with a Rs.0 balance.'

HDFC Bank: 'The account was never closed and late fees and charges still apply.'

Family Member: 'You mean you want to collect from her estate?'

HDFC Bank: (Stammer) 'Are you her lawyer?'

Family Member: 'No, I'm her great nephew.' (Lawyer info was given)

HDFC Bank: 'Could you fax us a certificate of death?'

Family Member: 'Sure.' (Fax number was given )

After they got the fax :HDFC Bank: 'Our system just isn't setup for death. I don't know what more I can do to help.'

Family Member: 'Well, if you figure it out, great! If not, you could just keep billing her. She won't care.'

HDFC Bank: 'Well, the late fees and charges will still apply.'

(What is wrong with these people?!?)

Family Member: 'Would you like her new billing address?'

HDFC Bank: 'That might help...'

Family Member: Odessa Memorial Cemetery , Avinashi, Coimbatore

HDFC Bank: 'Sir, that's a cemetery!'

Family Member: 'And what do you do with dead people on your planet???’