The fact that journalist Debayan Roy publicly aired and exposed his offence suggests that there was no bad faith, Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani of the Delhi High Court said during the hearing of the case against journalist Debayan Roy for highlighting errors in Aadhaar enrolment. “You’re hanging on to this one man who’s a journalist who’s followed the sting operation norms of the NBSA [News Broadcasting Standards Authority ]. There’s no question of any intention or bad faith. Otherwise, he would not have run it on. He wouldn’t have aired it. He’s publicly telling people that, ‘Look, I’ve committed this offence’,” Justice Bhambhani mentioned.

In the previous hearing of this case, the court had asked lawyers from both sides to clarify when an offence should not be prosecuted. The question stemmed from the argument on Roy’s side that under Section 81 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) , an act likely to cause harm but done without criminal intent is not an offence. To this, the Unique Identification Authority of India’s (UIDAI) lawyer Anirban Sen questioned whether there was any such flaw in the system. “What are your Aadhaar centres doing? Why did they not show him the door?” Justice Bhambhani asked Sen, adding that if Roy did not show ID, the enrolment centers should not have engaged with him any further.

In 2017, Roy was trying to point out a flaw in the Aadhaar enrolment system by establishing that one person could get two separate Aadhaar cards with the same set of biometrics. To do so, he had sought permission from Radhakrishnan Nair, the managing editor of CNN-News18 (where he was working at the time), and then conducted a sting operation on the Aadhaar enrolment centres.

While Roy successfully got two Aadhaar enrolment numbers, the Delhi Police filed an FIR against him under Sections 34 and 35 of the Aadhaar (Targeted delivery of financial and other subsidies, benefits, and services) Act , 2016, and Section 419 (Punishment for cheating by impersonation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC .

In 2020, the Delhi Police added Sections 467 and 468 of the IPC to the FIR against Roy for allegedly forging a driving licence to obtain an Aadhaar card. Whether or not Roy forged the driving licence has been a key topic of debate during the trial.

The crux of Roy’s case boils down to the fact that he sought to point out an error in the Aadhaar system. Instead of recognising the flaws and fixing them, the UIDAI decided to penalise Roy for his sting operation. As such, the court’s verdict in this case would be relevant to establish freedom of speech for journalists and whistleblowers, setting out what they can and cannot do in their professional capacity.

Sen relied on the Supreme Court hearing in the Rajat Prasad case , to argue against the sting operation Roy carried out. For context, in 2003, the Delhi edition of the Indian Express carried a story about a sting operation against the then Union Minister of State for Environment and Forest taking a bribe. A CBI investigation revealed that a competing political figure’s son had conducted the sting operation as part of a conspiracy to give his father an advantage before elections. Sen mentioned that in this case, the accused had argued that they conducted the sting operation because of “a journalistic desire to expose corruption in public life,” which is similar to Roy’s case.

He mentioned that in this case, the Solicitor General had said that giving a bribe as part of the sting operation was an offence under the IPC. Sen explained that, in the Rajat Prasad case, the court had held that “a crime does not stand obliterated or extinguished, merely because its commission is claimed to be in public interest. Any such principle would be abhorrent to our criminal jurisprudence.” Further, the court had said that whether the sting operation and the bribe that the accused party had given were for journalistic purposes or not would have to be established through the evidence that both parties would submit. Similarly, Sen said that it is unclear so far whether Roy forged a driving licence or not.

Justice Bhambhani interrupted the discussion pointing out that a portion of the Prasad judgment also said that “a journalist or any other citizen who has no connection, even remotely, with the favour that is allegedly sought in exchange for the bribe offered, cannot be imputed with the necessary intent to commit the offence of abetment.”

He explained that in the case of a journalist who does not get any benefit from having two Aadhaar cards, one can draw the argument that he didn’t have the necessary intent to commit the crime.

Responding to this, Sen mentioned that according to him, there was no need for a sting operation in this case. “Who are the likely people to whom you go for a sting operation? For example, if they were parliamentarians like in the other case, your sting operation brings it back to the people who voted them to power,” Sen added. However, in this current case, the sting was against a lowly operator. He further established that while in the Rajat Prasad case, the sting disclosed a bribe, in Roy’s case the sting did not show that people could get two Aadhaars, rather the UIDAI blocked the second Aadhaar.

Roy’s lawyer, Sidharth Luthra, interjected, adding that people have conducted sting operations on red light districts in the 1960s. He added that one cannot categorise sting operations to decide who they should and should not apply to. Sen responded, questioning whether it would be acceptable if a journalist decided to apply for a passport with a fake document with no intention to travel using said passport, and carried out a sting operation of the same. He added that under the sting operation guidelines, one should ensure that they do not commit an offence while conducting a sting operation.

“My difficulty is this, that this should not become a precedent for all other applications where Section 34 [of the Aadhaar Act] is diluted,” Sen explained. Under Section 34 of the Aadhaar Act, impersonating someone to enroll for an Aadhaar card is a criminal offence. “The way you are chasing after Mr Roy I don’t think anyone else [will try this]” Justice Bhambhani suggested in a light-hearted tone.

The national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi’s lawyers argued that the FIR against Roy discloses a cognizable offence. Reiterating the contents of the FIR, they argued that at the time, the NCT of Delhi did not know that Roy was conducting a sting operation or his intentions. They discussed that as per the police investigation, the other accused in the case, Manish Kumar (one of the people Roy conducted his sting operation on), stated that Roy showed his driving licence which Kumar processes for Aadhaar enrolment. Similarly, the other co-accused in the case, Sandeep Kumar gave a similar statement, arguing that Roy showed his driving licence. When the licensing authority eventually verified the driving licence, it found out that the document was fake.

Further discussing the intention behind the offence, the lawyers argued that the court should consider any defence that Roy has available to him, during the course of the trial. “If that were to be tested during a quashing petition [a legal request to nullify an FIR], then that would cut the whole process short,” they added.

Responding to the NCT of Delhi’s demand for a trial, Roy’s lawyer Luthra clarified that neither the state nor UIDAI have the original driving licence, only a copy of the fake driving licence or a false photograph. Luthra explained that it is up to the state to show whether they got this copy through Roy. About the photograph he added that today it is easy enough for anyone to get a person’s photograph through social media.

Luthra directed the court’s attention to Section 47 of the Aadhaar Act , which states that courts should not take cognizance of an offence under the Act unless the UIDAI or any authorised person makes a complaint. The court can also take cognizance of the situation if an individual makes a complaint. Luthra said that in this case, the UIDAI made no complaint against Roy. As such, any offence under Section 34 of the Act does not apply in Roy’s case.

Further, under Section 29 of the Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations, 2016 , in any case, where the UIDAI feels that there is a need to deactivate an Aadhaar card, it must conduct a field inquiry about the same while hearing out the person whose Aadhaar card it is seeking to deactivate. Luthra argued that in Roy’s case, the authority did not conduct any such inquiry or hear Roy out.

Instead, an FIR was filed even though the remedy for the case was a complaint under Section 47 of the Aadhaar Act. Luthra quoted the Puttaswamy case , according to which as of March 21, 2018, there were 6.91 crore biometric de-duplication rejections. “I ask myself have they registered 6.91 crore FIRs or are they making an example out of this one man?” Luthra said, questioning why the UIDAI did not file a complaint against Roy under Section 47 instead of filing an FIR.

The case is up for hearing next on April 25, 2025.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event