SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Forget Chetan Bhagat's Half-GF. Read this GF(Gujarat Files by Rana Ayyub)
DATE: 2016-06-03
SCORE: 2
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/4mdsqy/forget_chetan_bhagats_halfgf_read_this_gfgujarat/

--- POST TEXT ---

By Amazon Customer on Jun 01, 2016 

 Don't judge a book by its cover. Cause you can judge it by its reviews.

The exception to this rule is this book. When you open the Amazon page, you can see the hundreds of one star reviews by people who have not even purchased this book let alone read it. Because those who have bought this book have the caption 'Verified Purchase' next to their reviews. And that caption is there on most of the five star reviews (**The Scroll website have found that, out of 844 one-star reviews, only 3 were by those who bought it on Amazon**)

This is one of the many signs that we are being ruled by the fake and the opinion of trolls is the only free speech that has any value in these times. People have become suddenly patriotic and hateful of anyone who criticizes the PM when we were doing the same long before Modi was in his diapers. Jokes on the Prime Minister is a 'sin' if it is about NaMo but it's a joke if it is about Manmohan Singh.

So getting to the book review, the story of Gujarat Files is old but the truth needs to be retold. When a couple of power hungry people realized that they could manipulate the system into doing their bidding, they used the inherent weaknesses of people to desire an enemy and hence raised the Muslims up to other Indians to be called Terrorists no matter whether they were innocent or not. This took on a powerful hold into our silent racist tendencies and false Hinduthva religious fervor which culminated in the mass genocide of a people who had to answer for the sins of a few violent ones from their community. These murders were pushed even further by the propaganda that if Muslims "were taught a lesson", then the terrorists living among them would be scared of the "brave Hinduthva protectors of India". Using these patriotic sentiments and hatred for a now ailing and corrupt Congress party, political favor was whipped up into a frenzy to allow for the birth of a bigoted, patriarchal and cunning government that will be the downfall of us all if we didn't do something about it.

We know this but what Rana Ayyub has done for us is to be brave enough to risk her life and limb to go undercover and enter the lives of people who have participated or been effected by the encounter killings and riots in Gujarat. In her interviews, we get a glimpse of how Dalit Police where used to perform encounter killings, how Amit Shah was involved in passing orders down the chain of command, how the riots were planned out and the cops were ordered to not help, how even the CBI and the SIT were influenced by politically connected puppet masters, how those cops who wanted nothing to do with the massacre there had their hands tied behind their backs, how lies and threats became the hallmark of the situation in Gujarat and we as a nation are in danger of falling into the same web of deceit on a much larger scale.

There is enough journalistic evidence in this book to warrant another arrest warrant or at least another objective investigation on the prime suspects responsible for the tragedy of 2002. And many people when they hear this will counter with 'oh what about the Hindus who were killed in the Godhra train?' as if killing innocent Muslims somehow was karma for that. Is this what justice have become? That if a few Muslims extremists kill Hindus then we go ahead and kill innocent Muslims? Or if a few Hindu extremists kill Muslims then we go ahead and kill innocent Hindus? And depending on which religion we follow, we subscribe to killing the innocent along with the guilty 'enemies'? The logical and just decision is to find the guilty, whatever their religion or lack of it, and bring them to trial but "justice be damned" is what we do. These are questions we need to seriously ponder if we ever want to remain a democracy and not be lead into a dictatorship which is the current climate of India. The killing and hatred for people who speak against the government is clear evidence of this.

Hats off to Rana Ayyub in being super sleuth and super soldier. Her pen is mightier than any Hinduthva sword. May there be more journalists like her who bring out the truth to the light of day out of the darkness it seeks to hide in. She deserves as much respect as the brave soldier guarding our borders for she seeks to enlighten us not only regarding the actions of the corrupt in power but also against the seeds of racism and inhumanity that hides within us. Also, much respect to her family, to Mike and to everyone else who stood by her and protected her in her journey to uncover the truth.

Forget the Chetan Bhagat books. Read this cause truth is indeed stranger than fiction. It is also more horrifying and scarier because it is true. And we need to hear it.