(Judgment of the Court was made by DR.ANITA SUMANTH,J.)

 BACKGROUND

 The appellant/writ petitioner is aggrieved by order dated 03.08.2021,

 wherein the plea for a mandamus directing the Registrar General, Additional

 Registrar General and Registrar (IT-Statistics) (R1, R2 and R3 respectively) to

 redact his name and other identities from judgment dated 30.04.2014 in Crl.A.

 (MD)No.321 of 2011 has been rejected. He had also sought a direction to

 Ikanoon Software Development Private Limited (R4) to reflect the redaction in

 its publication of the judgment in criminal appeal, which plea had also been

 rejected. 2.The appellant had faced criminal proceedings for offences under Sections 417 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code and had been convicted and

 sentenced by the trial Court by judgment dated 29.09.2011. The judgment was

 reversed by the High Court on 30.04.2011 in Crl.A.(MD)No.321 of 2011 and

 the appellant was acquitted of all charges. The judgment has attained finality. 3.The appellant had, after acquittal, re-married and has three children.

 While so, the appellant had found, from a perusal of the High Court website,

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 2 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 that the judgment dated 30.04.2011 revealed his personal details including

 details of his family that would reveal his identity. 4. He is aggrieved by the fact that such personal and intimate details of

 his life are available in public domain and claims protection by redaction of

 those details. This plea is based on his entitlement to privacy, particularly since

 his life has turned a new chapter and it is unnecessary for the private aspects of

 his past life to be open to public scrutiny. 5. The uploading of the unredacted judgment on the web portal has very

 significant repercussions in that, he was awaiting a visa for to travel to

 Australia that was denied by the authorities citing that criminal case. He thus

 made a request before R4 that the judgment be taken down from the portal, to

 which it did not accede. He had thus approached this Court seeking the same

 relief which also came to be rejected. Hence, this writ appeal. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANT 6.The arguments raised before the Writ Court are reiterated before us by

 Mr.Jayavel. He relies upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in K.S.Puttaswamy and Another v. Union of India and Others 1, wherein the right

 to privacy had been held to be an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal

 liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, enforceable in law.

 1 (2017) 10 SCC 1

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 3 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 7. The writ petitioner submits that the rights to be forgotten and of

 privacy are inherent in Article 21 of the Constitution. He assails the order of

 the writ court on the ground that redaction of name and identity are legal

 entitlements in light of the IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media

 Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The uploading of judgments containing personal

 details triggers stereotypical ideas in the minds of the readers which continue

 long after the slur cast by the original judgment has been removed by the legal

 process. 8. Referring to the case of XYZ Hospital2 he points out that the procedure

 of masking of personal and identifying details is not unknown to the Supreme

 Court which has been issuing such directions as an when deemed appropriate. In fact, in Central Public Information Officer, Supreme Court of India V.

 Subhash Chandra Agarwal3 the Apex Court had held that Section 8(1)(f) of the

 Right to Information Act providing for Protection of the privacy of individuals

 is applicable to itself. 9. The writ Court has distinguished the decisions cited by the petitioner,

 referring to those specific instances where identity of victims has been

 protected either by statute or by the Court. The petitioner however makes a

 distinction between statutory protection afforded to children and victims of

 2 (1988 8 SCC 296)
 3 [(2020) 5 SCC 481]

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 4 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 abuse, and the anonymity he seeks. In his case he has been declared innocent by

 the High Court and the State has accepted that judgment, as a result that the

 findings in the judgement have obtained finality. There is no justification for

 that slur to persist in the future as well. 10. The writ court, in denying the relief sought, has cited Rup Ashok

 Hurra V. Ashok Hurra4 to state that no writ will lay against the superior courts.

 The petitioner makes a distinction between the relief sought for in Hurra'scase

 (supra) which is one of certiorari as against the present prayer, which is a

 mandamus. 11. He further refers to the following cases in support of his case: 12. Per contra, the respondents, represented by Mr.K.Samidurai,

 emphasize upon the need for public access to judgments of the Court, relying

 on the judgement in Swapnil Tripathi V. Supreme Court of India7. For his part,

 the petitioner would emphasize that the prayer sought for by him would not

 militate against the need for public access to justice as no public purpose would

 be served by disclosing the details of the offending judgment.
 4 [(2002) 4 SCC 388]
 5 (2017 SCC OnLine Kar 424)
 6 (2023 SCC OnLine SC 279)
 7 (2018 (10) SCC 639)

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 5 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 13. Respondents also rely on V.Swaminathan Vs. Registrar General,

 High Court of Madras and Ors.8 wherein the Division Bench of this Court, vide

 decision dated 08.12.2021, rejected the plea for redaction of details of the Writ

 petitioner's daughter from a judgment dated 24.11.2016 in W.P.No.20192 of

 2013. 14. The objection raised by the Registry was that the writ petition was

 itself not maintainable and in stating so, reliance had been placed on the order

 of the Karnataka High Court in (Name Redacted)V. Registrar General, High

 Court of Karnataka &Ors. (supra) and by the Kerala High Court in XXX. v.

 Union of India and Ors9. 15. That writ petition has been dismissed with the Division Bench on the

 ground that the High Court is a Court of Record and in the absence of specific

 Rules, mandamus could not be granted. The objections raised by the Registry

 were accepted and the writ petition held not to be maintainable. 16. They refer to the decision in R.Rajagopal V. State of Tamil Nadu10 ,

 where this Court has opined that the Rule of privacy is subject to the exception

 that publication becomes unobjectionable if it is based upon public records

 including court records. 8 (decision dated 08.12.2021 in W.P.No.SR.73910 of 2021) 9 WP(C).No.9982 OF 2021(W) dated 19.04.2021 10 (1994 6 SCC 632)

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 6 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 17. Likewise, they refer to Section 327 of the Cr.P.C. that provides that

 Judicial Institutions should normally be open and transparent, such that the

 public would have access to both the courts and to their judgments. As far as

 the victims under POCSO cases are concerned, the States and Union Territories

 were directed to set up a one-stop centre in every district within one year of that

 judgment. 18. The Orissa High Court in Subhranshu Rout @ Gugul V. State of

 Odissa11 also dealt with this issue while adjudicating upon an application under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C. The petitioner in that case had opened a fake

 facebook ID in the name of the informant, uploading objectionable photos of

 hers. 19. He sought bail and while dealing with that plea, the High Court held

 that information, once out in public domain, particularly in social media, is like

 tooth paste, impossible to put back in the tube. After referring to various

 judgments, both domestic and International in the context of privacy, the Court

 declined the relief of bail. DISCUSSION 20. We have heard the detailed submissions of the parties and perused

 the records as well as the case law relied upon. The right to be forgotten was

 first recognized in French jurisprudence and referred to as le droit à l'oubli. The

 11 2020 SCC OnLine Ori 878

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 7 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 right was conferred upon convicts who had been released to help them make a

 fresh start in their lives, independent of their past by allowing them to seek

 erasure of their names from official databases. 21. The European Court of Justice in Google Spain SL, Google Inc. V.

 Agencia Espannola de proteccion de Datos (AEPD), Mario Costeja Gonzalez 12

 allowed deletion of information which Mr.Gonalez had said was irrelevant but

 which continued to damage his reputation. 22. Coming home, the judgement in the case of K.S.Puttaswamy (supra)

 has settled the position that the right to privacy is an inalienable right, and one

 that is part of the Right to life enshrined in Article 21. Inter alia, the Bench has

 also dealt with the various components of the Right to privacy, including the

 Right to be forgotten. 23. The judgment is encyclopedic and renders superfluous the necessity

 to refer to the cases cited by the parties as they have been exhaustively referred

 to in that judgment. The Bench concludes in unison that the Right to Privacy is

 an inalienable right subject to the restrictions specified in Part III of the

 Constitution of India. 24. Specific reference may be made to paragraphs 615, 631 and 636 and

 paragraph 526 in the concurring opinions of Nariman J and Sanjay Kishan Kaul

 J. respectively, where the right to be forgotten has been discussed as follows: Any endeavour to remove information from the internet
 does not result in its absolute obliteration. The foot prints
 remain. It is thus, said that in the digital world
 preservation is the norm and forgetting a struggle. 636.Thus, the European Union Regulation of 2016 has
 recognized what has been termed as ‘the right to be
 forgotten’. This does not mean that all aspects of earlier
 existence are to be obliterated, as some may have a social
 ramification. If we were to recognize a similar right, it
 would only mean that an individual who is no longer
 desirous of his personal data to be processed or stored,
 should be able to remove it from the system where the
 personal data/ information is no longer necessary,
 relevant, or is incorrect and serves no legitimate interest.
 Such a right cannot be exercised where the information/
 data is necessary, for exercising the right of freedom of
 expression and information, for compliance with legal
 obligations, for the Supra performance of a task carried
 out in public interest, on the grounds of public interest in
 the area of public health, for archiving purposes in the
 public interest, scientific or historical research purposes
 or statistical purposes, or for the establishment, exercise

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 9 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 or defence of legal claims. Such justifications would be
 valid in all cases of breach of privacy, including breaches
 of data privacy. Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. 526.But this is not to say that such a right is absolute.
 This right is subject to reasonable regulations made by
 the State to protect legitimate State interests or public
 interest. However, when it comes to restrictions on this
 right, the drill of various Articles to which the right
 relates must be scrupulously followed. For example, if the
 restraint on privacy is over fundamental personal choices
 that an individual is to make, State action can be
 restrained under Article 21 with Article 14 it is arbitrary
 and unreasonable; and under Article 21 with Article
 19(1) (a) only if it relates to the subjects mentioned in Article 19(2) and the tests laid down by this Court for
 such legislation or subordinate legislation to pass muster
 under the said Article. Each of the tests evolved by this
 Court, qua legislation or executive action, under Article
 21 read with Article 14; or Article 21 read with Article
 19(1)(a) in the aforesaid examples must be met in order
 that State action pass muster. In the ultimate analysis, the
 balancing act that is to be carried out between individual,
 societal and State interests must be left to the training
 and expertise of the judicial mind. SUMMARY OF THE DIGITAL PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT 2023 25. The Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (in short ‘ DPDP

 Act ’) has received the assent of the President on 11.08.2023. It provides for

 processing of digital personal data in a manner that recognizes both the right of

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 10 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 the individuals to protect their personal data, and the need to process such data

 for lawful purposes and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 26. The writ Court had noted at the time when the impugned order was

 passed, that there had been no legislation in this respect as the Bill was yet to

 be passed. Today, as we have the benefit of the enactment, we outline below

 the scheme of the Act to understand better the scope of protection that it

 affords. Section 2 defines several relevant terms and 'data' is defined under

 Section (2)(h) as follows:- 27. The data protected is as between a data fiduciary and data principle

 and both terms are defined as follows:- 28. 'Personal data' is defined under clause (t) to mean any data about any

 individual who is identifiable by or in relation to such data and 'personal data

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 11 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 breach' means any unauthorized processing of personal data or accidental

 disclosure, acquisition, sharing, use, alteration, destruction or loss of access to

 the personal data, that compromises confidentiality, integrity or availability of

 personal data. 29. There is another category referred to as 'Significant Data Fiduciary'

 which means any data fiduciary or class of data fiduciaries as may be notified

 by the Central Government under Section (10) of the Act. 30. The application of the Act is in the following manner: (b) also apply to processing of digital personal data
 outside the territory of India, if such processing is in
 connection with any activity related to offering of goods or
 services to Data Principals within the territory of India;” 31. Certain exemptions to the applicability of the Act are set out in clause (c) as follows: 32. Chapter II containing Sections 4 to 10 sets out the obligations of Data

 Fiduciary. Section 4 states that a person may process the personal data of a

 Data Principal only in accordance with the provisions of the Act and for

 purposes that the Data Principal has consented or that are otherwise legitimate,

 meaning not expressly forbidden by law. 33. Section 5 states that every request made seeking consent to a Data

 Principal shall be accompanied by or preceded by a notice from the Data

 Fiduciary informing her of the personal data in possession of the Data

 Fiduciary and the purpose for which it is proposed to be processed. She is also

 to be intimated of her rights under the Act, particularly Section 6(4) and 13 and

 the manner in which she may complain, if aggrieved by the use of personal data

 before the Board. 34. Section 6 requires consent given by the Data Principal to be free,

 informed, specific, unconditional and unambiguous. Once the consent is given,

 it signifies agreement to the processing of her personal data solely for the

 purposes it has been collected. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 13 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 35. Section 7 adumbrates the uses for which personal data of a Data

 Principal may be utilized being (a) for the specified purpose for which the Data Principal has
 voluntarily provided her personal data to the Data Fiduciary,
 and in respect of which she has not indicated to the Data
 Fiduciary that she does not consent to the use of her personal
 data. (b) for the State and any of its instrumentalities to provide or
 issue to the Data Principal such subsidy, benefit, service,
 certificate, licence or permit as may be prescribed, where–– (i) she has previously consented to the processing of her personal
 data by the State or any of its instrumentalities for any subsidy,
 benefit, service, certificate, licence or permit; or (ii)such personal data is available in digital form in, or in non-
 digital form and digitised subsequently from, any database,
 register, book or other document which is maintained by the State
 or any of its instrumentalities and is notified by the Central
 Government, subject to standards followed for processing being
 in accordance with the policy issued by the Central Government
 or any law for the time being in force for governance of personal
 data. (c) for the performance by the State or any of its
 instrumentalities of any function under any law for the time being
 in force in India or in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of
 India or security of the State; (d) for fulfilling any obligation under any law for the time being
 in force in India on any person to disclose any information to the
 State or any of its instrumentalities, subject to such processing
 being in accordance with the provisions regarding disclosure of
 such information in any other law for the time being in force; (e) for compliance with any judgment or decree or order issued
 under any law for the time being in force in India, or any
 judgment or order relating to claims of a contractual or civil
 nature under any law for the time being in force outside India;

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 14 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 (f) for responding to a medical emergency involving a threat to
 the life or immediate threat to the health of the Data Principal or
 any other individual; (g) for taking measures to provide medical treatment or health
 services to any individual during an epidemic, outbreak of
 disease, or any other threat to public health; (h) for taking measures to ensure safety of, or provide assistance
 or services to, any individual during any disaster, or any
 breakdown of public order. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the expression
 “disaster” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
 clause (d) of section 2 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005; or (i) for the purposes of employment or those related to
 safeguarding the employer from loss or liability, such as
 prevention of corporate espionage, maintenance of
 confidentiality of trade secrets, intellectual property, classified
 information or provision of any service or benefit sought by a
 Data Principal who is an employee. 36. Section 8 casts responsibility on the Data Fiduciary for full

 compliance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules and makes it clear that

 it is to carry out its duties under the Act in a responsible manner. Any assistant

 appointed for that purpose would only be under a valid contract. The use of the

 data by the Data Fiduciary should be appropriate, accurate and consistent. 37. The Data Fiduciary is expected to protect the personal data in its

 possession or in its control putting in necessary safety measures to prevent data

 breach. Intimation is to be given to the Board and to the affected Data Principal

 in the event of a data breach. Section 8(7) is important to this case, as it

 provides for erasure of personal data. Sub-clause (7) reads as follows: 38. The purpose referred to in Section 8(7)(a) shall be deemed to no

 longer be served, if the Data Principal does not approach the Data Fiduciary for

 performance of the specified purpose and exercise of her rights in relation to

 such processing for a specified time period to be stipulated by Data Fiduciaries. 39. The Data Fiduciary is expected to publish the contact information of

 a Data Protection Officer who would be liasoning with the Data Principal in

 regard to the processing of the personal data. A Data Fiduciary is also expected

 to establish an effective mechanism to redress the grievance of the Data

 Principal. 40. Section 9 deals with the processing of personal data of children. Section 10 imposes obligations upon a significant Data Fiduciary and the

 Central Government can notify a Data Fiduciary or class thereof as a significant

 Data Fiduciary on the basis of an assessment of various factors including the

 following: 41. Once designated as a significant Data Fiduciary, such entity would

 have to appoint a Data Protection Officer who shall represent it for the

 purposes of the Act, be responsible to the persons in management of that

 significant Data Fiduciary and be the point of contact for the grievance

 redressal mechanism under the Act. The significant Data Fiduciary should also

 appoint an independent Data Auditor to carry out data of the audit and a

 periodic data protection impact assessment in regard to the processing of the

 large quantities of data in its possession. 42. Chapter III sets out the rights and duties of a Data Principal and

 contains Sections 11 to 15 . Sections 11 and 12 vest the rights of obtaining

 from the Data Fiduciary the summary of personal data as well as the identities

 of all other Data Fiduciaries and Data Processors with whom her personal data

 has been shared. The latter is inapplicable where such sharing was pursuant to a

 request made by another Data Fiduciary for the purpose of prevention,

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 17 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 detection or investigation of cyber offences or cyber incidents or for the

 prosecution or punishment of offences. 43. The Data Principle has the right of correction, completion, updation

 and erasure of personal data under Section 12 . Such erasure is to be carried out

 upon request unless the retention of the same were to be necessary for the

 specified purpose of compliance with any law for the time being in force. The

 duties to be performed by a Data Principal are set out under Section 15 . 44. The special provisions set out under Chapter IV include Sections 16 and 17 . Section 16 vests power in the Central Government to, by Notification,

 restrict transfer of personal data by a Data Fiduciary for processing anywhere

 outside India. It is tempered by sub-section (2) which states that the restriction

 will not apply if the law outside India provides for a higher degree of protection

 than what is available within the Country. 45. Section 17 states that the provisions of Chapter II, except Section

 8(1) and 8(5) and Chapter III and Section 16 would not apply in certain

 specified situations as below: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 18 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 (b) the processing of personal data by any court or
 tribunal or any other body in India which is entrusted by law
 with the performance of any judicial or quasi-judicial or
 regulatory or supervisory function, where such processing is
 necessary for the performance of such function; (c) personal data is processed in the interest of
 prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of any
 offence or contravention of any law for the time being in force in
 India; (d) personal data of Data Principals not within the
 territory of India is processed pursuant to any contract entered
 into with any person outside the territory of India by any person
 based in India; (e) the processing is necessary for a scheme of
 compromise or arrangement or merger or amalgamation of two
 or more companies or a reconstruction by way of demerger or
 otherwise of a company, or transfer of undertaking of one or
 more company to another company, or involving division of one
 or more companies, approved by a court or tribunal or other
 authority competent to do so by any law for the time being in
 force; and (f) the processing is for the purpose of ascertaining the
 financial information and assets and liabilities of any person
 who has defaulted in payment due on account of a loan or
 advance taken from a financial institution, subject to such
 processing being in accordance with the provisions regarding
 disclosure of information or data in any other law for the time
 being in force. 46. Thus, the only provisions that would be applicable to a Court,

 Tribunal or anyone entrusted with the purpose of rendition of judicial or quasi-

 judicial functions (per Clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 17 ) would be

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 19 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 Section 8(1) and 8(5) , extracted below, the provisions contained in Chapter III,

 being Rights and Duties of Data Principal and Section 16 , and it is exempt from

 all other obligations as adumbrated under Chapter II: 47. The important ramification of the insulation as contained in Section

 17(1)(b) is that the Section 8(7) , that provides for erasure of personal data is

 now rendered inapplicable to Courts, tribunals and quasi-judicial authorities.

 The impact of this insulation, specifically upon the Data Principals have been

 addressed in the paragraphs to follow. 48. Chapter III, containing Sections 11 to 15 contains the rights and

 duties of a Data Principal and Section 16 , being the power of the Central

 Government to transfer data, is extracted below: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 20 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 (2) Nothing contained in this section shall restrict the
 applicability of any law for the time being in force in India that
 provides for a higher degree of protection for or restriction on
 transfer of personal data by a Data Fiduciary outside India in
 relation to any personal data or Data Fiduciary or class
 thereof. 49. Under Chapter V, a Data Protection Board of India has been set up

 which provides for a Board with a Chairperson and Members. Chapter V deals

 with various details relating to the constitution of the board, their terms of

 reference and other matters. 50. Chapter VI deals with the powers, functions and procedure to be

 followed by the Board and contains Sections 27 and 28 . The Board is to look

 into complaints of personal data breaches and Section 28 states that as far as

 practicable, the Board shall function as a digital office. 51. Sections 29 to 32 provide for appeals and resolution of disputes by

 Alternate Dispute Mechanisms coming under Chapter VII. Chapter VIII

 dealing with Sections 33 and 34 deal with the imposition of penalties and

 adjudication of matters. Chapter IX deals with Miscellaneous matters, such as

 making of Rules, bar against filing of Suits, an omnibus grant power to the

 Central Government requiring the Board, Data Fiduciary or Intermediary to

 provide such information as it may call for etc.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 21 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 52. In Section 44, there are provisions for consequential amendment of

 other enactments and sub-section (3) assumes importance. Section 8(1)(j) of the

 Right to information Act (RTI Act ) now reads information which relates to

 personal information the disclosure of which has no relationship to any public

 activity or interest or which would cause unwarranted invasion of the privacy

 of the individual unless the Central Public Information Officer of the State

 Public Information Officer or the appellate authority, as the case may be, is

 satisfied that the larger public interest justifies the disclosure of such

 information'. This sub-section will now stand substituted to read ‘information

 which relates to personal information’. With this substitution, the balance that

 was sought to be achieved between personal and public interest under the RTI

 Act will stand diluted. There is a direct consequence of this position on the

 functioning of the Courts as Data Fiduciaries that we address in the paragraphs

 to follow. APPLICATION OF THE DPDP ACT TO THE COURTS 53. The scope, thrust and object of the DPDP Act is to regulate the

 collection of data and, simultaneously, protect personal data. Achieving such a

 balance is critical to a society that straddles a transparent and open system of

 working with safeguards and measures in place for the protection of personal

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 22 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 data. A decision on the applicability of the Act or otherwise must thus, in our

 considered view, lean in favour of inclusion rather than exclusion. 54. Section 3(c) expressly states that the Data Protection Act shall not

 apply to (a) the Data Principal to whom such personal data relates or (b) any

 other person who is under an obligation under any law for the time being in

 force in India to make such personal data publicly available. The term 'person'

 used in Section 3(c)(ii)(B) encompasses an individual, a hindu undivided

 family, a Company, a firm, an association of persons or a body of individuals,

 whether incorporated or not, the State and every artificial juristic person not

 falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses. While the High Court is an

 artificial juristic person, there is no obligation cast upon the Courts to make

 personal data publicly available. 55. The exemption contained under Section 3(c)(ii)(B) contains two

 limbs. Firstly, the entity must be a 'person' as understood under the provisions

 of the DPDP Act , which the High Court is, and secondly, there must be an

 obligation for disclosure of personal data held by it. In the present case, the

 second limb is not satisfied. 56. A Constitutional Court, such as the High Court is a Court of Record

 and is expected to hold in its possession such data as constitutes its 'record', in

 perpetuity. The decision and discretion as to whether such data is to be made

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 23 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 publicly available is fully available with the Institution itself, and such

 decisions are taken consciously and carefully. 57. Courts cannot be compelled to make available any information in

 public domain subject to the compulsions imposed by the RTI Act , and, in the

 interest of public access to justice and courts, such discipline is self-imposed.

 Courts are expected to perform a fine balancing act between aggregation of

 data required to perform its functions and protection of personal data so

 collected. 58. Efforts are also ongoing administratively within the Institution to

 construct and formalize a Policy for Privacy and Data Protection, applicable

 pan India. and this process is all the more enabled with the enactment of the DPDP Act . The Act contains the structure that may be put in place to address

 and redress such concerns and can be moulded to suit the unique specificities of

 the Courts. Till such time a policy is put in place, it becomes incumbent on

 every High court to devise a mechanism by which requests of the nature put

 forth by the writ appellant, are addressed and redressed. 59. Courts have, time and again, addressed this issue, taking the initiative

 to intervene and protect the victims in various situations and circumstances. In

 Nipun Saxena and anr. V. Union of India and ors.,13, the Hon'ble Supreme

 13 W.P.(C) 565 of 2012 dated 11.12.2018

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 24 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 Court considered how and in what manner, the identity of adult victims of rape

 and children who are victims of sexual abuse should be protected. 60. They refer to Section 228A introduced in the Indian Penal Court vide

 Amendment Act No.43 of 1983 with effect from 25.12.1983 that provided for

 certain guidelines to be followed in the disclosure of identity of the victims of

 certain offences. In the case of X V. State of Maharashtra as well, the Supreme

 Court has directed the Registry to mask the name of the informant pending

 adjudication of her case. 61. As the writ petitioner points out, he does not seek statutory protection

 but rather the exercise of discretion by the Court for enforcement of his

 fundamental right of erasure. The ‘Right to be forgotten’, or rather the ‘Right to

 be remembered well’, cannot be denied to a person if the facts and

 circumstances so commend it. 62. The concerns of privacy so acutely felt now, are a feature of the

 Internet age. The uncontrolled and unbridled dissemination and availability of

 information that have been noted in the judgement in K.S.Puttaswamy

 necessitate such discretion in appropriate circumstances and if the Court were

 certain that the claim of the person is indeed justified. We are thus of the

 considered view that granting the relief of masking/redaction of information

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 25 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 from certified copies that are issued for public circulation must be enabled in

 appropriate situations. 63. What those situations are, would be a matter of consideration on a

 case to case basis. The Right to Privacy of an individual would have to be

 finely balanced with the right of the citizen 'to know'. It is in these

 circumstances that a streamlined structure as contemplated under the Act would

 come a long way in providing a structured remedy to an aggrieved individual. 64. Courts have wide discretion in deciding whether disclosure must be

 preferred to redaction. Such discretion can be exercised either at the request of

 the party seeking redaction or in appropriate cases even where such request has

 not been made by the party, suo motu by the Court. Courts are sensitive to the

 position that, many a time, litigants may be unaware of the protection/privacy

 that they are entitled to and in such instances, would take it upon themselves to

 afford such privacy in appropriate cases and even where the party has not

 specifically sought such protection. Such occasions may arise in the most

 unexpected scenarios. 65. One of us (Anita Sumanth,J) had occasion to deal with a batch of

 matters relating to a challenge to income tax assessments pursuant to search

 and survey under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 . One of the

 arguments in support of the challenge to the search conducted under Section

 132 of the Income Tax Act was that there had been unwarranted and illegal

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 26 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 intrusion into the homes of the petitioners by the officers of the Income Tax

 Department. 66. The petitioners had referred to one of the family members, a young

 girl, having suffered medical ailments on account of the extended hours of

 search and the lack of adherence to basic tenets of human rights. They alleged

 that the family member was prone to medical history of seizures caused by

 disturbed sleep patterns, stress and lack of timely food. These facts were part

 of the record including the name and medical history of the family member. 67. While this aspect of the matter, that is, the procedure followed in

 carrying out the search, had necessarily to be taken into account in deciding the

 veracity or otherwise of the search itself, there was no need to reveal the

 personal details of the family member itself as it was extraneous to the legal

 issue. It would thus suffice to outline the incident without any necessity for

 minute and private details, such as the name of the family member, name of

 treating doctor, name of the hospital and details of medical condition. 68. There was no request by the party for redaction or masking. But in

 dealing with the issue, the private details were withheld on a careful

 consideration of personal interest vis-a-vis private interest (see decision in

 Chandran Somasundaram Vs. Principal Director of Income Tax, Coimbatore

 and ors 14 ). In today's reality of enhanced and often times, cumbersome

 14 (2023) 450 ITR 188

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 27 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 visibility, the Court is vested with sufficient inherent powers to mast/redact

 personal information where necessary, and does not have to seek support from

 external sources. The strength and sensitivity of a Constitutional Court, would

 suffice in this regard. 69. The grievance of an individual who wishes to invoke the right of

 erasure can now be address in a systematized manner. True, the provisions of Section 8(7) of the DPDP Act dealing with the Right of erasure have not been

 extended to the Courts by virtue of Section 17 of the DPDP Act. However,

 there is nothing that prevents the Courts from providing such succor or solace

 to deserving persons upon our being so convinced, and it is left for the Courts

 to sift the facts of each case and decide on such erasure/redaction. 70. Section 12(3) provides that personal data may be erased unless

 retention of the same is necessary for specified purpose or for compliance with

 any law for the time being in force. The definition of ‘data’ under Section 2(h) means a representation of information, facts, concepts, opinions or instructions

 in a manner suitable for communication, interpretation or processing by

 human beings or by automated means. 71. ‘Digital Personal Data’ is defined under Section 2(n) to mean

 personal data in digital form. An order of the Court would thus constitute ‘data’

 in satisfaction of the definition under Section 2(h) and such order, when

 available in a digital form containing personal data, inter alia, would constitute

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 28 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 digital personal data. ‘Personal Data’ is defined under Section 2(t) to mean

 ‘any data about an individual which is identifiable by or in relation to such

 data.’ 72. Essentially the order under challenge, contains three fold reasoning to

 reject the plea for mandamus (i) that a writ cannot lie against the judgment or

 order passed by it as that would tantamount to a High Court issuing a writ

 against itself (ii) that the High Court is a Court of Record and is entitled to

 preserve its record for perpetuity (iii) based on the principle of open courts and

 justice, the ‘right to be forgotten’ is an exception to the principle of open justice

 that either has to be statutorily provided for or specifically directed by the

 Supreme Court. 73. Adverting to the first point, we do not agree that the petitioner seeks

 issuance of a writ against the High Court. To our mind, there is a distinction

 between a prayer where the relief sought is as against the Institution itself and

 the present case where the petitioner seeks protection of his privacy by way of

 redaction or masking of personal/private details rendered irrelevant by passage

 of time but which continue to haunt him. In fact, redaction or masking is not

 unknown to the Courts and we cite below two such instances. 74. In the case of X V. State of Maharashtra15 the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court considered the case of the appellant who had claimed to be exposed to

 15 2023 SCC Online SC 279

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 29 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 the horrors of the casting couch syndrome. Appeals had been filed challenging

 orders of the Bombay High Court allowing anticipatory bail applications filed

 by the respondent. While quashing the orders and cancelling the bail bonds,

 the Registry was directed suo motu by the Bench to protect the identity of the

 appellant and take immediate steps to redact the name of the appellant from the

 records. 75. A general direction was also issued to ensure that in sensitive

 matters, if the name of the appellant/prosecutrix was revealed, the matter be

 returned to the counsel for redacting the name before clearing the same and

 listing before the Court. Another instance is the Karnataka High Court in the

 case of (Name Redacted) V. Registry of the High Court of Karnataka (supra)

 referred to in paragraph 15 above. 76. On the second point, the High Court, under Article 215 of the

 Constitution of India is a Court of Record. In the course of the services that it

 renders, it becomes a repository of a wide range of information, a significant

 portion of which comprises personal information of individuals. The argument

 that the High Court as a Court of Record is entitled to preserve the original

 record in perpetuity, is unassailable. However, the sanctity of an original record

 is not diluted in any way, if a public reflection of that record is moderated to

 preserve the privacy of the person to whom that record pertains.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 30 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 77. Thus, while the records of the Court remains sacrosanct and

 untouched, all that is called for is a direction to redact or mask the personal

 details from the judgment when published/uploaded, such that the identity of

 the parties remains private. Undoubtedly, the parties to the litigation are

 entitled to certified copies of the unredacted and complete judgment. Under the

 Madras High Court Appellate Side Rules, Order XII deals with issuance of

 certified copies. Rule 1 bars the entitlement of any person to a copy of Judges’

 notes or minutes, correspondence not strictly judicial and confidential

 correspondence. 78. Rule 2 states that any party to a proceeding shall be entitled to

 obtain copies of judgments, decrees or orders made or of any documents filed

 or exhibited in such proceeding on payment of charges in the manner

 prescribed under those rules. Rule 3 states that any person who is not a party to

 a proceeding, requiring copies of judgments, decrees or orders made or of any

 documents filed or exhibited in such proceeding, may apply to Court for grant

 of such copies by a duly stamped petition. 79. Once a party applies to the Court for grant of copies, an application

 will have to be filed in terms of Rule 4 for obtaining such a copy. The proviso

 to Rule 4 as applicable prior to substitution by R.O.C.No.4282-A/2010/F1

 dated 22.12.2010 reads as follows: 80. Post its substitution the proviso reads thus: 81. Clearly, the Rules have been drafted in contemplation of privacy and

 protection of private interests, even several decades ago. It is thus open to any

 person who is a party to the proceedings to approach the Court and obtain an

 order for maintenance of secrecy and privacy and in respect of matters where

 such judicial order was obtained, the order would have to be transmitted to the

 Registry, such that the Registry could refuse or reject applications by third

 parties for copies. 82. Order XI of the Madras High Court Original Side Rules provides for

 a party to a suit or a matter to be entitled to obtain copies of judgments, decrees,

 orders made, documents or exhibits on payment of charges prescribed and

 Order XIV Rule (v) enables applications by strangers to a suit for leave to

 inspect the records and for obtaining copies of the records. The Rules thus do

 enable protection and privacy of litigants though the ultimate discretion in

 either accepting or rejecting a request remains with the Court.

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 32 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 83. On the aspect of open Courts, The Kerala High Court in Vysakh K.G.

 V. Union of India and others , had declared that the claim for protection of

 personal information based on the right to privacy cannot co-exist in an Open

 Court justice system. The following directions were issued : 84. The open justice system is dealt with in detail in the case of Swapnil

 Tripathi V. Supreme Court of India. Three Judges of the Hon’ble Supreme

 Court, noting that generally criminal and civil Courts in India are open Courts,

 opined that technology has made it possible for Courts to literally be open in

 the sense of removing infrastructural restrictions and logistical issues. 85. Indeed, the phenomenon of open Courts has literally brought justice

 as well as the justice dispensation system to the doorsteps of citizens. There has

 however, to be a fine balance between the concept of open justice and that of

 the privacy of the litigant. The fact that privacy is an inalienable and undeniable

 facet of the right to life and dignity is too well settled now. That apart, the right

 to erasure is also now statutorily enshrined in the DPDP Act . 86. While the appellant relies on the judgment in the case of

 K.S.Puttaswamy, the respondent would rely on the judgment in the case of

 Swapnil Tripathi. In our considered view and having studied both the

 judgments carefully, we do not believe that the same militate at any level

 whatsoever. A careful balance has to be achieved between the concept of Open

 Court and Open access justice, and the cry for privacy. There could be no

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 34 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 totalitarian application of either one concept as that would defeat the purpose of

 both equally valid concepts. 87. Being a service institution committed to serving the cause of justice,

 the Courts cannot close their eyes to the concerns of privacy and the right that

 enure in the litigations to leave behind parts of their past which are no longer

 relevant. This, in our view, would be a proper understanding and reconciliation

 of the ratio of the judgments in Swapnil Tripathi and K.S.Puttasamy, balancing

 the concept of open Court/open justice on the one hand and privacy concerns of

 a citizen, on the other. 88. Thus, even sans the benefit of the DPDP Act , which is yet to be

 notified, we are of the view that the inherent powers of the Court would extend

 to issuing Mandamus as sought for. The Writ Petitioner is entitled to the relief

 sought on the facts and circumstances of this case. 89. The Writ Court has also expressed helplessness in passing ‘orders

 and judgments in acquittal due to slipshod investigation, dishonest witnesses

 and lack of an effective witness protection system. This Court honestly feels

 that our criminal justice system is yet to reach such standards where Courts

 can venture to pass orders for redaction of name of an accused person on

 certain objective criteria prescribed by rules or regulations’. 90. The question is as to whether the exercise of discretion by Courts is

 circumscribed by the perfection or otherwise of a system in which we are, but
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 35 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 one stakeholder. True, Courts must do everything in their power and strive to

 perfect the system. However, we do believe that the fallibility or vulnerability

 of the criminal justice system must not stand in the way of rendition of justice

 elsewhere, if, when, and where it is called for. 91. In the present case, there is no dispute in that the judgment in Crl.A.

 (MD) No.321 of 2011 has attained finality. In that judgment, the Bench states

 categorically 'In the result, I hold that the appeal should be allowed and the

 accused acquitted. I am not giving any benefit of doubt to the accused and

 acquitting him, but I am holding that the accused has disproved the

 prosecution case and has earned this acquittal.' The acquittal is thus full,

 complete and unconditional. 92. The writ petitioner has moved on and there is no public interest in

 retaining, as part of public record, a chapter of his life that has no relevance

 now. The fact that the ‘principle of fresh start’ has been statutorily enshrined

 under the Juvenile Justice (Care and protection of Children), Act, 2015 cannot

 lead to the conclusion that adults are not entitled to the same. CONCLUSION: 93. Thus, there is a direction to R4 to take down the judgment in Crl.A.

 (MD) No.321 of 2011 dated 30.04.2014 forthwith. There is a further direction

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis 36 W.A.(MD)No.1901 of 2021 to R1 to R3 to redact the name and other details of the Writ Petitioner relating

 to his identity from judgment dated 30.04.2014 in Crl.A.(MD) No.321 of 2011

 and ensure that only the redacted judgment is available for publication or for

 uploading. Needless to say, the full and unredacted version of the judgment

 shall continue to be part of the record of the Court. 94. This Writ Appeal is allowed and connected miscellaneous petitions

 are closed without there being any order as to costs.