The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has directed registered intermediaries uploading advertisements on social media platforms to use email IDs and mobile numbers registered on the SEBI intermediary (SI) portal while signing up. In an advisory issued on March 21, the regulator also directed such intermediaries to update their contact details on the SI portal by April 30, 2025.

Further, Social Media Platform Providers (SMPPs) like Google and Meta would later conduct advertiser verification of such entities.

SEBI’s new guidelines come amid rising frauds in the securities market on social media platforms including YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, X, Telegram, and app stores. The regulator noted the patterns like perpetrators luring victims in the guise of providing online trading courses and seminars, furnishing misleading testimonials, or guaranteeing risk-free returns on social media. Besides this, Ananth Narayan, SEBI’s whole-time member (WTM), also announced in a speech that the regulator, in collaboration with social media companies, has removed 70,000 misleading posts and handles since October 2024.

However, this is not the first time SEBI has cautioned users and registered intermediaries of such activities on social media. In December 2024, the Board advised investors to not conduct transactions or share sensitive personal details on unauthorised or unregistered electronic platforms, noting that such platforms violate laws like the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the SEBI Act, 1992. Previously, in August 2024, the Bombay and National Stock Exchanges furnished a joint report urging investors to refrain from joining social media forums like WhatsApp, Telegram, or Instagram channels providing stock recommendations or falsely offering trading opportunities through fake SEBI-issued certificates. The exchanges also highlighted other illegal online activities like offering “dabba” or illegal trading services, claims to facilitate pre-IPO subscriptions with false promises of assured profits, impersonating applications of registered trading members, etc. The intermediaries clarified that victims of such fraud communications can report these through the Sanchar Saathi Portal , the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal , or the 1930 cybercrime helpline number.

Notably, in 2022 SEBI conducted raids in multiple cities across the country for operating Telegram channels which made recommendations of selected listed scrips, creating artificial volume and price rise.

In 2024, SEBI also released a consultation paper highlighting when a platform is recognised as a ‘Specified Digital Platform’ (SDP), stipulating that these portals take measures like leveraging AI and ML to curb illegal activity on their platforms and prohibiting associations between unregistered influencers and registered intermediaries. Further, SDPs were directed to enable SEBI and its registered entities to escalate or report unlawful content alongside establishing a mechanism to report misleading content or advertisements. Debating the justification of this regulation, speakers at MediaNama’s discussion on “SEBI Platform and Influencer Regulations” disclosed that the law is all-encompassing and could even impact platforms like WhatsApp where users forward trading advice. Capital Mind Founder and CEO Deepak Shenoy also compared individuals offering free trading advice on platforms like YouTube to similar advice furnished on TV channels, with SEBI cracking down on the former and taking down videos from different creators and channels.

Returning to the advisory, it also notes that SMPPs must conduct advertiser verification post the onboarding of such users. Google’s advertiser verification for financial services stipulates that entities must demonstrate that they are licensed by the relevant financial regulator—SEBI in this case—and later obtain third-party verification from Google’s vendor G2. Notably, advertisers, such as search engines or e-commerce platforms, who don’t promote financial services but have a “compelling reason to target users” seeking financial advice must also apply to G2. And evidently, only authorised representatives can submit such applications. This requirement for authorisation by relevant regulatory authorities extends to Meta’s advertiser verification process for countries like Taiwan , Australia, and the UK.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event