This is the first application filed by the applicant under Section 438 of
 Cr.P.C. for grant of anticipatory bail. The applicant apprehends his arrest in connection with Crime No.66/2023
 registered at Police Station Hanumanganj, District-Bhopal for the offence
 punishable under Sections376(2)(n) , 328 and 384 of IPC. As per prosecution, the complainant lodged a complaint on 01.02.2023
 that she is an Aanganwadi Worker and the applicant is her tenant. She has Signature Not Verified Signed by: JITIN KUMAR CHOURASIA Signing time: 3/16/2023 5:36:49 PM 2 stated that she had earlier given some money for purchasing of a land through
 the present applicant and thereafter went with him to see the land. It is stated
 that on the fateful day i.e. on 07.03.2022, the present applicant forcibly
 committed sexual intercourse with her. She had further disclosed that the
 applicant told her husband that some buyer was coming to see the flat and that
 is why she again went with the present applicant on 09.03.2022, and they had a
 lunch in a hotel, whereafter drinking a spiked cold drink in a room, she became
 unconscious and later on found herself without any clothes on the bed. She has
 alleged that the present applicant has threatened her that she had made her nude
 video and thereafter tried to blackmail her. Contention of learned counsel for the applicant is that the applicant has
 been falsely implicated. Referring to the statement of account filed along with
 the bail application, it is stated that the applicant and her husband were in need
 of money for purchase of land for which he himself offered money as he was a
 tenant. However, the complainant and her husband did not want to return that
 money, hence, a false complaint has been lodged against him. Learned GA has vehemently opposed the bail application. It is stated
 that the applicant could not be arrested and his mobiles are required to be
 seized for the purpose of investigation. Considering the statement of the complainant and the statement of
 account produced by him, prima facie it seems that the complainant was a
 consenting party, the rape is alleged to have happened on 07.03.2022 and
 09.03.2022, but the complaint has been lodged after a period of more than 11
 months which gives strength to the contention of applicant that the same is
 done to pressurize the applicant not to ask for his money that he has earlier
 forwarded for purchase of land to them. Therefore, without adverting to the Signature Not Verified Signed by: JITIN KUMAR CHOURASIA Signing time: 3/16/2023 5:36:49 PM 3 merits of the case, this application is allowed. It is directed that in the event of arrest, the applicant shall be released on
 bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs.50,000/- (Rs. Fifty
 Thousand Only) with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the
 arresting officer, however, with a condition that the applicant would cooperate
 in the investigation and surrender his three mobiles before the police authorities.
 He shall also mark his presence before the Police Station-Hanumanganj,
 District-Bhopal on 1st of every month. In case, if the applicant fails to surrender his mobile phones or makes a
 single default in marking his presence, as aforesaid, this bail order will stand
 cancelled automatically, and the police authorities will be at liberty to arrest him. It is further directed that the applicant shall also comply with the
 provisions of Section 438(2) of Cr.P.C. In case, if he does not cooperate in the
 investigation or in the trial, or if he is found involved in any other offence or if
 any attempt is made by him to influence or threaten the witnesses,directly or
 indirectly, then too, this bail order will stand cancelled automatically. Let a copy of this order be supplied to learned Govt. Advocate for
 information and compliance. Certified copy as per rules. (NANDITA DUBEY)
 JUDGE Signature Not Verified Signed by: JITIN KUMAR CHOURASIA Signing time: 3/16/2023 5:36:49 PM