SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How to deal with my dad's situation ( possibly flirting online with other women)
DATE: 2023-08-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/15jw3sz/how_to_deal_with_my_dads_situation_possibly/

--- POST TEXT ---

How to confront dad about him possibly cheating on mom with someone online

So this started back in lockdown (2020). My dad accepted a catfisher's request ( he didn't know it ofcourse). I then started noticing him texting all night. He had even exchanged numbers. I was shocked when I saw some cringey messages. Like calling her sweetheart, darling and then I got even more suspicious when I saw in his search history,how to delete WhatsApp messages. 
I told mom how he could be talking to a fraud. I then blocked that account and deleted that number. I don't know if he went back to that.my college started and offices reopened. 

3 years later my sister(14) tells me today that papa might be cheating. She told me how he talks all night to a woman and calls her darling. When she once tried to take away his phone he behaved very weirdly. She then once asked him who he is talking to and he said that it's Didi's old tuition teacher. That teacher is older than him and is a widow,i don't think that woman would ever do this nor do I think he'd be attracted towards her. 
My sister showed me his search history and it was filled with kisses, male female sex,female arousal pictures and gifs. This is very disappointing. My mother used to use his Facebook account as she is not that into social media but recently he forced her to make her own account. 
Now i don't want this to affect my little sister, last time i myself was so disturbed when I was 19,now I'm 22 but I can't go back home before Diwali. 
My dad is in his late 50s mom nearing 50. 
If men are so horny why can't they fuck their own wives . I also don't know whether to later let my mom know about this or just confront with dad. I don't know how to go about this, it boils my blood and makes me question everything he says. I already got less attached to my dad as I grew up and can't let this happen to my mom. Even if it's just online flirting it's not the age , forget about age anybody in relationship with someone should not even think about this. My mother blindly trusts him when it comes to these things and always takes his side when we say something slightly against him (not related to cheating and stuff but just questioning his thinking and all),reminds us of all the sacrifices he has made for us.