RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. 1. The present application is filed under Section 482 of the
 Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 [ Section 438 Cr.P.C.] by
 the petitioner seeking anticipatory bail in case FIR No. 386/2025 BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 1 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38 registered at P.S. Badarpur under Sections 115 / 126(2) / 74 / 78 / 324(2) / 351(2) BNS, 2023 and Section 3(1)(r)(s) (w-ii) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities)
 Act, 1989 ["SC/ST Act"]. FACTUAL BACKGROUND 2. As per allegation in the FIR, complainant had been working as
 Assistant Manager, Batra Hospital, Faridabad for the past two months.
 There, she came in contact with the petitioner. On 30.07.2025, while
 returning from Batra Hospital, she was stopped by the petitioner. On
 reaching Badarpur Flyover, he overtook and stopped her car. The
 complainant became frightened as petitioner allegedly broke the car
 window, forcefully pulled her out of the vehicle, physically assaulted
 her, molested her and verbally abused her. She further alleged that
 petitioner used caste related derogatory remarks "Chamaran tune aaj
 meri shikayat karke acha nahi kiya, aaj tujhe iska bhugtan karna
 padega" and threatened her not to report the incident to the police.
 During assault, she fell down on the road and petitioner allegedly
 dragged her by her collar, molested her by pressing her breast and
 continued to abuse her before fleeing from the scene. After the
 incident, complainant called her husband, who after reaching the spot,
 made a PCR call. 3. Based upon the above statement of the complainant and medical
 report of the injured, FIR No. 386/2025, under Sections 115/126(2)/
 74/78/324(2)/351(2) of BNS was registered. 4. During investigation, Investigating Officer got recorded the
 complainant's statement under Section 183 BNSS, wherein, she
 reiterated the allegations and attributed specific caste-based slurs to
 the petitioner. On the basis of the allegations made, Section
 3(1)(r)(s) (w-ii) of SC/ST Act was also invoked. Complainant, in her
 statement, further mentioned that petitioner had come to her house on
 the night prior to the incident in an intoxicated state and threatened to
 kill her family. 5. Learned Additional Sessions Judge, South-East District, Saket,
 vide order dated 06.09.2025, dismissed the petitioner's anticipatory
 bail application. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 6. Mr. K.K. Manan, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner
 submits that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in the present
 case. She has been in consensual relationship with the complainant, as
 evident from WhatsApp chats, call detail records (CDRs), and
 photographs exchanged between them, placed on record. The chats
 and digital exchanges, according to learned Senior Counsel,
 unmistakably establish intimacy and mutual affection between the
 two, thereby demolishing the prosecution's claim of harassment or BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 3 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38 stalking. The petitioner was honey-trapped by the Complainant under
 a well thought-out conspiracy. 7. It is the case of the petitioner that the complainant was
 introduced to the petitioner via a person namely Sunil Bhati and it was
 the petitioner who got the complainant her job at Batra Hospital after
 he sent her CV to Ramesh Batra. Since then, the petitioner and
 complainant have been in touch with each other, exchanging messages
 and calls. The petitioner bought gifts for the complainant, took her for
 lunch and the complainant even visited the farmhouse of the
 petitioner. Ld. Senior Counsel further submitted that the petitioner
 had, out of goodwill, advanced monetary help to the complainant from
 time to time when she was in financial distress. However, when the
 petitioner sought repayment, the complainant, with malafide intent,
 lodged the present false complaint to pressurize and humiliate him. 8. Arguing on the point of the offence being committed within
 "public view", the Ld. Senior counsel stated that to amount to an
 offence under section 3 of the SC/ST Act, it is essential that the
 petitioner was aware of the complainant's caste and intentionally used
 casteist slurs for humiliation in the presence of independent public
 witness. In support of his arguments on "public view", he placed
 reliance on a catena of judgments including the judgment passed by
 Court in Virender Verma Vs. Neeraj Bajpai & Ors. [in CRL.L.P.
 113/2016, decided on 12th September 2018],whereby it was held that
 "public view" for the purpose of section 3 of the SC/ST Act would BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 4 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38 mean that the incident occurred in the presence of public persons and
 such public persons should be independent and impartial, not
 interested in any of the parties or have any sort of
 relationship/association with the victim. Reliance was also placed on Daya Bhatnagar & Ors. Vs. State , (2004) SCC Online Del 33 which
 held that "public view" means that public persons present should be
 independent, impartial and not having any commercial/business
 relation with the complainant. 9. The Ld. Senior Counsel referred Hitesh Verma v. State of
 Uttarakhand , (2020) 10 SCC 710, to contend that disputes of personal
 nature do not attract the provisions of the SC/ST Act unless there is
 clear intent to humiliate the victim belonging to a Scheduled Caste. Reliance was also placed upon Prithvi Raj Chauhan v. Union of
 India (2020) 4 SCC 727 and Shajan Skaria v. State of Kerala
 (Criminal Appeal No. 2622 of 2024) to argue that anticipatory bail
 can be granted when no prima facie offence under the SC/ST Act is
 disclosed. Learned Senior Counsel stressed that the bar under Sections
 18 and 18-A of the SC/ST Act is not absolute, and courts retain the
 power to examine whether the allegations are genuine or concocted. 10. It is contended that the essential ingredients of the offences
 under Section 3(1)(r)(s) (w-ii) of the SC/ST Act are not made out
 inasmuch as there is no material to show that the petitioner was aware
 of the complainant's caste and that the alleged incident did not occur
 "in public view" as required under law. There was no independent BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 5 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38 public witness who could corroborate that alleged casteist abuses were
 uttered by the petitioner to the complainant. 11. It is urged that the present FIR is a classic example of misuse of
 penal provisions and the SC/ST Act, which is enacted for the
 protection of the marginalized community, but is now being
 weaponized for extraneous purposes. 12. It is further argued the petitioner has been maliciously
 implicated due to ulterior motives of the complainant. No recovery is
 to be effected from the petitioner and his custodial interrogation is not
 required. The petitioner has willingly placed CDR and WhatsApp
 chats on record- thereby showing his cooperation. It is stated that the
 petitioner has deep roots in society, is a law-abiding citizen, is willing
 to fully cooperate with the investigation and also undertakes to abide
 by all conditions that may be imposed by this Court. Hence, it is
 prayed that anticipatory bail be granted to the petitioner. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE AND THE
 COMPLAINANT 13. Per contra, learned APP for the State, Mr. Tarang Srivastav,
 opposes the grant of anticipatory bail and submits that allegations
 against the petitioner are grave and serious in nature. It is contended
 that the complainant's statement under Section 183 BNSS
 corroborates the allegations in the FIR and clearly discloses offences
 under the BNS and the SC/ST Act. 14. It is contended that the incident had occurred on the road and
 when the petitioner dragged out the complainant from the car, a crowd
 had gathered, thereby indicating that the place was within "public
 view". It is also submitted that the windshield of complainant's car
 was broken and as per the MLC, complainant suffered injuries on her
 person. 15. Learned APP further submitted that the protection of
 anticipatory bail should not be extended in cases involving caste-based
 abuse, as the same has a deleterious effect on social order and public
 confidence. He contends that the allegations in the FIR, if taken at face
 value, reveal physical assault, intimidation, and humiliation of the
 complainant- belonging to a Scheduled Caste community, thereby
 attracting the rigours of Section 18 of the SC/ST Act which bars pre-
 arrest bail. Reliance was placed on Kiran Vs. Rajkumar Jivraj Jain &
 Anr. , 2025 INSC 1067 to contend that if a prima facie case is made
 out, then bail cannot be granted under section 18 of the SC/ST Act. It
 is further submitted that all essentials of section 3 of SC/ST Act stand
 satisfied. It is prayed that application seeking anticipatory bail be
 dismissed. 16. It is also argued that the investigation is at a nascent stage and
 custodial interrogation of the petitioner is necessary for collection and
 verification of electronic evidence such as mobile data, CCTV
 footage, and digital communication. 17. The complainant, who appeared before the Court through video
 conferencing, has opposed the bail plea and submitted that she has
 known the petitioner since past 5-6 months and that they used to visit
 each others house. She contended that the petitioner was aware of her
 caste and that on the day of the incident, he broke her car's
 windshield, dragged her out of the car, hit her and threatening her and
 also hurled caste slur. She further submitted that the petitioner used to
 follow her everywhere and one night he reached the complainant's
 house and extended threat to her and her family. It is urged that she is
 under genuine apprehension of threat and harassment from the
 petitioner if anticipatory bail is granted to him. ANALYSIS AND REASONING 18. The SC/ST Act is a special provision which provides stringent
 safeguards to protect the members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
 Tribes from atrocities to give effect to the constitutional ideals. It aims
 to protect these communities from discrimination, abuse and violence,
 ensuring social equality and justice. At the same time, the Act cannot
 be converted into a charter for exploitation of citizens. 19. To constitute an offence under section 3 of the SC/ST Act, it is
 essential that there should be intentional insulting or intimidation with
 intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe,
 and abuse or use of caste epithets in a manner that targets the person's BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 8 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38 caste. Moreover, such acts must be done "in any place within public
 view". The relevant extract of Section 3 of SC/ST Act is as under:- 20. Section 18 of the SC/ST Act has been enacted to take care of
 an inherent deterrence and to instil a sense of protection amongst the
 Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes. The provision explicitly
 excludes the application of Section 438 of the Cr. PC in relation to any
 case involving the arrest of any person on an accusation of having
 committed an offence under the Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 18-A specifically excludes the application of the provisions of Section 438
 of the Cr. PC, notwithstanding any judgment, order or direction of a
 Court. The same reads as under:- 21. A bare reading of Section 18 and 18-A of the SC/ST Act, makes
 it abundantly clear that the legislature has taken away the benefit of
 anticipatory bail in respect of the offences alleged under the SC/ST
 Act. The constitutional validity of Section 18 of the Act has been
 upheld by the Apex Court in the case of State of M.P. & Anr. Vs.
 Ram Krishna Balothia & Anr. (1995) 3 SCC 221. 22. In Vilas Pandurang Pawar Vs. State of Maharashtra (2012) 8
 SCC 795, Hon'ble Supreme Court explained the bar under Section 18 of the SC/ST Act against grant of anticipatory bail, observing as
 under:- 23. It was further observed in Vilas Pandurang Pawar (supra):- 24. The Supreme Court further explained in Prithvi Raj Chauhan
 Vs. Union of India , (2020) 4 SCC 727 that the bar contained in
 Section 18 does not operate as an automatic, mechanical fetter to deny
 relief where the complaint itself and the materials placed therein do
 not, on a prima facie basis, disclose the essential ingredients of an
 offence under the Act. If the complaint on a prima facie reading of the
 material, does not make out a case under the SC/ST Act, the statutory
 bar cannot be invoked to deny the court the jurisdiction to consider
 anticipatory bail. The bar under Section 18 can only be sensibly
 applied if, at the threshold, a prima facie case under the Act is made
 out. 25. Thus, the settled law is that if a prima facie case under the Act
 exists, the statutory bar operates strongly against the grant of
 anticipatory bail but if the allegations do not prima facie disclose the
 commission of any offence under the SC/ST Act, the courts retain the
 jurisdiction to grant anticipatory bail. 26. An important ingredient of offence under Section 3 of SC/ST
 Act is that the act must be done in any place within the "public view".
 The "public view" limb is not a superfluity, rather an essential element
 which the prosecution must prima facie establish to attract the above
 said provision. The jurisprudence on "public view" requirement has
 crystallized in recent years. The term "any place within public view" The Supreme Court emphasized that mere utterance of offensive
 words or insults to a member of SC/ST is not sufficient to invoke Sections 3(1)(r) and 3(1)(s) unless the insult or intimidation is shown
 to have been committed because the victim belongs to a Scheduled
 Caste/Tribe and unless the incident occurred in a place where
 members of the public (other than closely related persons or persons
 with a vested interest) could witness or hear it i.e. in "public view".
 The relevant portion of the judgment reads as under:- 27. In the latest judgment of Kiran vs. Rajkumar Jivraj Jain &
 Anr. , 2025 INSC 1067, the Hon'ble Supreme Court discussed the
 previous judgments on the subject namely Shajan Skaria Vs. State of
 Kerala & another , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 224; State of M.P. & Anr.
 vs. Ram Krishna Balothia & Anr. (1995) 3 SCC 221, Kartar Singh
 Vs. State of Punjab(1994)3 SCC 569; Vilas Pandurang Pawar (supra); Prithvi Raj Chauhan (supra); Hitesh Verma vs. State of
 Uttarakhand & Another , (2020) 10 SCC 710; Ramesh Chandra
 Vaish Vs. State of U.P. 2023 SCC OnLine SC 668 & Swaran Singh (supra). The relevant paras of the said judgment read as under:- and "any place within public view". It was held that if the offence is
 committed outside the building, for example in the lawn outside the
 house, and the lawn can be seen by someone from the road or
 lawn outside the boundary wall, then the lawn would certainly be a
 place within the public view. 8. In the present case, as noted above, the incident took place
 outside the house of the appellant which could be viewed by
 anybody. It was indeed a place within public view. There is no
 gainsaying that in the facts of the case all ingredients necessary to
 prima facie constitute offences under Section 3 of the Scheduled
 Caste and Scheduled Tribe Act, 1989 as alleged in the FIR stood
 satisfied. Furthermore, the occurrence of incident was fortified by
 recovery of clothes and weapons. 9. In the above view, there is no escape from the conclusion that
 offence under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe
 (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is made out from the bare
 reading of the FIR. The High Court in proceeding to evaluate the
 testimony of witnesses and to opine on that basis that there were
 certain discrepancies, no offence was made out, committed a
 manifest error. The anticipatory bail granted by overlooking of and
 disregarding the bar of Section 18 of the Act was a clear illegality
 and jurisdictional error committed by the High Court. The order of
 the High Court could not be sustained in the eye of law. 10. In the result, the judgement and order dated 29.04.2025 in
 Criminal Appeal No.201 of 2025 passed by the High Court of
 Judicature at Bombay, Bench at Aurangabad is hereby set aside.
 The Appeal is allowed. The anticipatory bail granted to respondent
 No. 1 stands cancelled." 28. Coming back the facts of the present case, there are categorical
 allegations in the FIR that petitioner made derogatory caste based BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 14 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38 slurs upon the complainant. Admittedly, petitioner does not belong to
 the SC/ST community. As per status report, notice under Section 94
 BNSS was served to the complainant to produce her caste certificate
 and other documents. Complainant produced a pen-drive containing
 video of the place of incident, recorded by her in her mobile phone.
 Further, she produced the caste certificates of her husband and her
 father along with her marriage card and the copy of the marriage
 certificate. As per the caste certificate, the husband of the complainant
 belongs to 'Jatav' caste and the father of the complainant belongs to
 'Khatik' caste. 29. The alleged incident took place on the road on a flyover which
 could be viewed by anybody. In her statement under Section 183
 BNS, complainant stated that there were many public persons present,
 even though, no public witness could be traced out so far, the place of
 incident was indeed a "place within public view". Therefore, the
 ingredients necessary to prima facie constitute an offence under Section 3 of the SC/ST Act, 1989, based on the allegations in the FIR
 and the statement under Section 183 BNS, stand satisfied. 30. Hence, prima facie, an offence under SC/ST Act is made out
 from the bare reading of the FIR and the statement under Section 183
 BNS, and therefore, the bar of Section 18 of the SC/ST Act shall
 apply in the present case against the grant of anticipatory bail. 31. In view of the bar imposed by Section 18 of the SC/ST Act,
 petitioner is not entitled to the grant of anticipatory bail. 32. The application is therefore dismissed. 33. It is clarified that nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to
 any expression on the merits of the case. RAVINDER DUDEJA, J. OCTOBER 28, 2025
 AK BAIL APPLN. 3485/2025 Page 16 of 16 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VAISHALI PRUTHI Signing Date:28.10.2025 17:34:38