Hon'ble Ravindra Nath Mishra-II,J. 1.	On a mere alleged sting operation, claimant-respondent was charge sheeted and without oral inquiry i.e examining any witness to prove charge after fixing date, time and place, the report was submitted holding charge proved solely relying upon sting operation which was telecast on T.V channels and claimant-respondent was punished with the order of punishment by stopping of two increments with cumulative effect and full salary for the period of suspension was also denied. 2.	Tribunal has found that inquiry was not conducted before imposing major penalty and none proved charge at all. The sting operation was taken as self sufficient evidence to prove charge though there was no evidence to prove charge before inquiry officer and thus entire proceedings are vitiated in law. 3.	Law is not well established that no major penalty can be imposed without holding oral inquiry. In the present case, proceedings are founded on sting operation. Commenting upon sting operation and dealing with historical backdrop, in Rajat Prasad Vs CBI (2014) 6 SCC 495, Court has said:- However, a shift in judicial reaction appears to be emerging which is clearly discernable in R v. Loosely (2001) UKHL 53 wherein the House of Lords found that: 4. In departmental inquiry matter again Supreme Court considered the question, whether dispensation of inquiry under Article 311 (2)(b) is justified when action is founded on sting operation conducted by a Television Channel displaying alleged corruption of the person concerned, in Risal Singh Vs. State of Haryana and others AIR 2014 SC 2922, and did not approve order of punishment without inquiry. 5. In view of above, and, considering the fact that an inquiry prescribed under Rules having not been held by disciplinary authority and merely on the basis of sting operation not consistent with procedure laid down in the statutory Rules which are in observance and compliance of Article 311 (2) of the Constitution, punishment has been imposed which cannot be sustained. 6. Therefore, Tribunal has rightly set aside order of punishment. We find no manifest error or error apparent on the face of impugned judgment warranting interference. 7.	Writ petition lacks merit. Dismissed. 8.	Interim order, if any, stands vacated. Order Date :- 18.7.2017
 
Pachhere/-