Customer Care Complaint No.:[protected] Reference number is[protected] Being a loyal customer for nearly 9 years, I would like to share my recent experience with your Coimbatore dealership for my Renault Pulse general service. Presently, Vehicle is with the Dealer Now. MODEL: Renault Pulse RxL Diesel 2013 REG. No.: TN 33 BD 4953 DEALER : Anamallais Motors Pvt Ltd, Peelamedu, Coimbatore OWNER : Sindhuja 19th AUG: After an appointment, vehicle was handed over at Anamalais Renault, Peelamedu, Coimbatore for General Service at 1, 40, 000 kms. After that, there was no service update even after 3 days, I called for a status update. 22nd AUG 9.17 am (Call Recorded) SERVICE ADVISOR - Mr. Jerald in a alarming voice asked me to come to service center ASAP since a patch up work was done around 'Oil Sump' drain nut and sump is in a weaker condition and he said Oil service CANNOT be done. Then, Pointing at me he said, oil leakage was stopped around the drain nut using 'Mseal and Araldite'. To my surprise, he said I have done that somewhere outside...!!! But, I doubt, During the last service they might have used this paste to seal the leakage. Then he suggested me to Completely Replace the Part (Oil Sump.) Which costs around Rs 25, 000/- ...!!! I asked why the patchwork done by the Service Station was not communicated to me during the previous service?? But, the Service Advisor put blame on me that I would have serviced at a local mechanic place and I have done that patchwork. I asked him to CHECK THE HISTORY OF SERVICE RECORDS, not even once, I have serviced my vehicle outside. FOR THE PAST 9 YEARS, MORE THAN 15 TIMES I PERIODICALLY SERVICE ONLY AT THIS SERVICE CENTRE. Once I strongly defend he escaped and cut the call. 9.41 am (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER - Mr. Dhinesh called back immediately in the same alarming voice that a patchwork was done at the oil sump. He asked where the last service was done. I requested him to check service history that all the past General services was happened at Renault Authorised service center for the past 9yrs. Have done AC Gas Filling that too only once at my known place outside. He strongly refused that it's their company policy to not use any 'mseal or araldite' and no record or mention in the delivery recommendation of previous service at 1, 30, 000 kms. He replied, I will check and get back. After 30mins he called back and said that he had asked to remove the mseal patchwork around the drain nut and now he witnessed no Oil leakage. Now everything is fine, only the drain nut needs to be replaced. 10.21am (Call Record) SERVICE ADVISOR - Mr. Jerald called back and asked to come in person to approve the other parts for replacement. I asked who were the persons in charge of the previous service. He replied none are here and changed jobs. SERVICE CENTER at 11 am Solution provided by Service Manager and Service Advisor is to RE-BORE the drain nut thread at a lathe workshop and everything will be fine. I was given a quote of 60, 000 + Tax + Labour including the replacement recommendation of Oil Sump which costs 25, 000. I told that I lost trust and I need the part to be replaced. Manager refused for a replacement and asked me to do anything I wished to do. Customer Care - RENAULT INDIA I came out and registered a customer care phone complaint[protected]at Renault India and received an acknowledgement call at 1:34 pm. 02:08 pm (Call Record) SERVICE Advisor - Our Service Manager holds more than 10 years experience, he knows very well whether the part needs to be replaced or not and he recommends doing a lathe work to rethread the nut and the issue will be solved. 02:55 pm (Call Record) SERVICE Advisor - Mseal is the only problem for you right? We take up full responsibility to get the part ready, if anything goes wrong in the future. 03:08 pm (Call Record) CUSTOMER CARE Manager - Triveni. She asked my side of the story and asked for 5 mins so that she would visit the car in person. 03.24 pm (Call Record) CUSTOMER CARE Manager - She called again and said that she personally inspected the car at the garage. She didn't noted any cracks, leaks or holes. No damage or issues visible to her eyes and part is in 'SUPER' condition. I asked, Since the part is in good condition, why did your service manager gave me a quote for 25, 000 for oil sump replacement. Did they give you a Quote for the part replacement? Why did they give you a Quote? 04.14 pm (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER - I don't know why you need a replacement. I gave you 100% assurance. The Part will be ready if the thread is cleaned and a new nut. 100% it will get ready. The part doesn't have any damage. You yourself saw the part, tell me did you see any Crack? I questioned, without any issue, why did you give me a quote for replacement? His reply was, it was done by old people and none of them are here. The quotation was given by a mechanic and advisor. He said that he personally went to check the issue and found no need for replacement. I told that you have already done a cover up and cheated and my only solution is for a replacement. 05:06 pm (Call Record) SERVICE Advisor - Accept the solution provided by the service Manager, we give full guarantee that there is no risk in future. No need for replacement. We have seen thoroughly, ZOOMED, 100% there will be no leak. 23rd AUG 9.17 am (Call Record) ASSISTANT SERVICE MANAGER - Mr. Anbu Amal Employees miss informed you regarding the quotation of parts. Oil Sumps need no replacement. I replied, During my previous general service oil change a mechanic of yours broke the oil sump during removal of drain nut and did patchwork to stop the leakage. Either he didn't mention it to you or you tried to cover-up the issue. In future if any problem arises, we guarantee you 100% we will solve the issue. We can assure in company letterhead writings with Renault seal. I asked him for a replacement which takes some 2 weeks time, till then provide a spare vehicle. 06:09 pm (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER - Vehicle is ready, you can come tomorrow and inspect the vehicle. There is no approval for new part replacement. I can show you a comparison with other PULSE vehicles. We didn't do any welding or pasting. It is a common practice that to apply M Seal paste at the bottom of all the vehicles to arrest oil leakage. 24th AUG 2.30 pm (Call Record) Customer Care - RENAULT INDIA I called to get a status on my complaint. They replied no response from the service centre. Asked to wait for some more time. Since I have 2 kids and my wife is hospitalized, I requested for a Loaner vehicle. 03.30 pm (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – He wished ‘Good Afternoon’ and said that he spoke to everyone including GM and they told to place an order and replace the Oil Sump. GM told to debit the amount from whoever involved during this scam activity and I have explained clearly whatever problem occurred last time. Also asked to check for possibility to check internally. They have approved new Oil Sump. I will order the Oil Sump now. Once The new Sump arrives, I will replace the new Sump. I told, till to get my vehicle ready, arrange me a loaner vehicle. He replied, I will convey to the concern person. He said that he will send an email stating that I will replace the part, and wants me to approve the email. I asked him to mention, when he will provide the Loaner Vehicle, Need the old part which will be removed from the vehicle. 03.56 pm (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – We need to replace the Oil filter and Oil while during the replacement of Oil Sump. I told, My vehicle is there at your service centre for nearly 4 days, Since you have broken your trust and promise, any further issues occurring other than the one’s mentioned in the vehicle check advice sheet then you are responsible. I doubt you may replace the good parts from my vehicle to compensate for your loss for replacing new Oil Sump (25, 000). He replied, “We are professionals and won’t indulge in those kind of activity”. 06.00 pm (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – We have placed an emergency order and the arrival of part is confirmed, it is arriving tomorrow (25th) evening. Friday morning we will assemble and you can get your vehicle delivery by evening. I asked if this part is genuine part of replaced from other vehicle? He replied, I will take photos and send while replacing. He told to believe him and his words. I have took all the risks of my life to speak to many authorities and replacing a part for you which you have asked. I told him to not say any sentiment stories and I know what he has spoken while leaving the vehicle and asked him to get the job done. He asked to do the General service 1, 40, 000kms. I asked him to send a detailed quote (Parts, Labour, Taxes) for the same. He told that, he will send an email saying that he is replacing the part and asked me to close the consent by replying back to that email. 25th AUG 09.48 am (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – Your loner car is ready, it is under Water wash, you can come you can take the vehicle. I said Okay. Since I had commitments, I was not able to pickup and asked him to drop at my home (12 kms from Service Center). 11.57 am (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – The driver has started with the loaner vehicle. I have shared your location. I will give him a Satisfactory Note, sign and return back to him. I asked what do you mean by ‘Satisfactory’ note? He replied, you have sent an email to Renault to replace the part. Now I have replaced the part. Still the complaint is open and we need to close. I asked, Did you complete the work? I haven’t seen your work yet. Are you sending my car? I still haven’t seen my car. How can I do a SATISFACTION signatory? He replied, that he asked a sign to close the complaint. I asked, What will you do this situation? He replied, Okay, I’m sending a loaner vehicle and call you while changing the part. 06.17 pm (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – Parts have arrived and we are going to replace the part. I will send photos and videos. He sent few photos and a video. 26th AUG 09.48 am (Call Record) SERVICE MANAGER – Your vehicle is ready, 140000 kms service is also complete. When are coming for picking up your vehicle? I said, I will call back to confirm the timing. Since I was out of town, I called him back and told that I will pick up the vehicle tomorrow. 27th AUG - DEALER MISBEHAVED & SCAM 10.07 am (Call Record) SERVICE ADVISOR – Your vehicle is ready and within one-hour water wash will be complete. SERVICE CENTER at 11.30 am I was told that after putting the vehicle at the ramp, we will call you. After some 15 mins, I was called to the garage to see the vehicle. The service Manager, Advisor, and Mechanic were present. They showed the part installed. I asked for the old part. The Service Manager told that he can’t provide the old part. He needs the old part to send back to the factory. I told them that I will provide him with the part after a week’s time. I inspected the old part removed from the vehicle. The part doesn’t have any m-seal or pasting on it. I doubt the part was not removed from my vehicle. I have compared the photographs of the old and new parts provided to me. (Images Attached) I told, “ I want my original part back which was already installed on the vehicle.” He told that he needs to speak to GM. After some time he came back and told me the part is kept inside the vehicle. Service Advisor gave proforma invoice, checklists and other papers stacked on top of one another for my signature. I signed the General service bill of Rs. 8, 526 and a few other papers. Advisor just turned in the bottom part of the papers for the signature. I ASKED HIM TO STOP AND TOLD HIM THAT I WANT TO INSPECT THE DOCUMENTS. Then I found that WITHOUT MY KNOWLEDGE, IN AN ATTEMPT TO CHEAT he got my signature on the Satisfactory Note as well. I immediately struck off the signature. I asked him will you get feedback without delivering the vehicle. How can a customer provide a satisfaction approval without doing a test drive of the vehicle? I told him that I need 3 to 4 days of time to run and test the vehicle. The Service Advisor asked to write the time duration details below and sign the satisfactory note. I wrote the details below and refused to sign the Satisfactory Note. I went to the finance department to make the payment for the General service and made the payment. I also signed the delivery note and gate pass. After making the payment I went out to pick my vehicle. The Service manager asked the security person to lock the gate and not to allow my vehicle outside. He told the loaner vehicle is dirty, it doesn’t look like how he has provided, seems he found some white dirt patches (it can be cleaned with a water wash) and wants to do a Teflon coating. He demands Rs. 6, 500 + GST for the same. THEY DIDN'T ALLOW ME TO PICK UP MY VEHICLE EVEN AFTER PAYING THE BILL. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)