1. As per order dated 06.03.2020 this Tribunal had Suo Motu registered the

 case on the basis of the newspaper report published in Chennai Express,

 Chennai Supplementary dated 08.03.2020 under the caption "Back to the

 Brink" in respect of pollution being caused in Putheir Lake in Pallavaram

 and appointed a Joint Committee to go into the question and submit a

 report. The case was originally posted to 18.05.2020 for that purpose. Thereafter, it was adjourned from time to time by notification. It was

 taken up on 25.09.2020 and at the request of the Committee, it was

 adjourned to 25.11.2020. Again for some time it was adjourned by

 notification for getting the report. On 29.01.20221, it was taken up and

 considered the report submitted by the Executive Engineer, Public Works

 Department, Lower Palar Basin received on 29.01.2021 which was

 extracted in para 3 of the order and also considered the report submitted

 by the Pallavaram Municipality dated 06.01.2021which was extracted in

 para 8 of the order and directed them to file the further status report and

 posted the case to 18.02.2021. On 18.02.2021, it was adjourned to today

 for filing the report. It is also mentioned in that order that there was

 another newspaper report in New Indian Express, Chennai edition dated

 10.02.2021 under the caption "Months old garbage still floating in

 Putheri Lake." and this Tribunal had directed the Committee to go into

 that aspect also and posted the case to today for that purpose. 2. When the matter came up for hearing today Mr. ManiGopi for Dr. V.R.

 Thirunarayanan represented respondents 1 to 5 & 9, Mr. C. Kasirajan

 through Ms. Ashwini represented 6th respondent, Mr. P. Srinivas through

 Mr. N.K. Ponraj represented 8th respondent. 3. We have received the Joint Committee report dated nil e-filed on

 17.03.2021 and received on the even date which reads as follows: 2. It is alleged in the report that though huge amount has been spent by the
 Government for rejuvenating the Putheri Lake in Pallavaram, but now due to
 the negligence and lapses on the part of the local bodies, there is no
 maintenance for the lakes, leading to large growth of water of hyacinth have
 been grown affecting the flow of the water and also reducing the oxygen level in
 the water. 3. Further, it is also alleged in the report that indiscriminate discharge of
 sewage is being done in that area and the municipal authorities are pumping
 sewage water into the lake thereby affecting the quality of the water causing
 pollution. 7. Before proceeding further, we feel it appropriate to appoint a Joint
 Committee comprising of the District Collector, Chengalpattu, District, The
 Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Engineer-in Chief, Water Resources
 Organisation (WRO) and Public Works Department (PWD), the Commissioner,
 Pallavaram Municipality, Senior Officer from Chennai Metropolitan Water
 Supply & Sewerage Board to go in to the allegations in the report and submit a
 factual and action taken report to this Tribunal. If there is any discharge of
 untreated sewage, then the committee is directed to identify the persons
 responsible for the same and initiate action against the people in accordance Page 3 of 12 with law, as discharging untreated sewage into the water body is an offence
 under the Water Prevention (control of Pollution) Act, 1974. If there is any
 pollution caused and the water quality has deteriorated then they are also
 directed to submit the action plan for remediating the same with shorter and
 longer time lines. If they are able to trace out persons responsible for the
 contamination, then they are directed to take action against such person
 including launching of prosecution and imposing environmental compensation
 and take steps to recover the amount from such person(s). 8. Water Resources Organisation (WRO) and Public Works Department will act
 as nodal agency for co-ordination and for providing all necessary logistics for
 this purpose. 9. The Chief Engineer, Public Works Department (PWD) and Water Resources
 Organisation (WRO), Chennai is Suo Motu impleaded as additional 9th
 respondent." Subsequently the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal (SZ), Chennai in its
 order dated. 29/01/2021 further directed the following

 "3. We have received the report submitted by the Executive Engineer, Public
 Works Department, Lower Palar Basin received on 29.01.2021 4. It is mentioned in the report that the Putheri tank in question is not
 maintained by the Public Works Department and it is under the maintenance
 and control of Pallavaram Municipality. Joint inspection was conducted on
 20.08.2020 by the members of the committee and they would be filing their
 report immediately before this Tribunal. 5. It is also mentioned in the report that there are plans for rehabitation and
 restoration of all tanks including Putheri tank in the overall Kovalam Basin
 (comes under Chengalpattu and Chennai District) under Comprehensive Flood
 Mitigation Project with an amount of Rs.2,000/- Crore which also involves
 creating biodiversity parks/ tree planting around the banks of the water body
 protecting the lake against future encroachment and Detailed Project Report
 (DPR) has been sent to the Government and after getting approval from the
 World Bank, the said project will be launched. 6. The 8th respondent/Pallavaram Municipality filed report dated 06.01.2021 7. It is seen from the report that certain steps have been taken to mitigate the
 issue and the entire solid waste dumped in that area has been removed. 8. So considering the circumstances, the Joint Committee is directed to submit
 the report to this Tribunal on or before 18.02.2021 by e-filing in the form of
 Searchable PDF/OCR Supportable PDF and not in the form of Image PDF
 along with necessary hardcopies to be produced as per Rules, failing which,
 action will be taken against the members of the committee for non-compliance of
 the direction as contemplated under Section 25 & 26 of the National Green
 Tribunal Act, 2010 as more than 10 (Ten) months have lapsed, after passing the
 order and constituting the committee." 2. COMPLIANCE OF THE DIRECTION

 In due compliance of the orders of the Hon'ble National Green Tribunal,
 water samples were collected by the officials of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control
 Board along with RDO, Tambaram and officials from Pallavaram Municipality
 from the Putheri Lake in Pallavaram on 20/08/2020. Statement showing the value of the Physico chemical parameters analysed

Sl.No Parameters Units Point of TNPCB
 Collection Standards (Inland
 Putheri Lake in Surface Water)
 Pallavaram

1 pH @ 25oC No. 7.84 5.5-9 2 Total mg/L 56 100 Suspended
 Solids @
 o
 105 C
3 Total mg/L 1006 2100
 Dissolved
 Solids @
 o
 180 C
4 BOD @ 27oC mg/L 40 30
5 COD mg/L 360 250
6 Copper as Cu mg/L <0.033 3
7 Zinc as Zn mg/L <0.01 1
8 Cadmium as mg/L <0.013 2
 Cd
9 Lead as Pb mg/L <0.07 0.1
10 Nickel as Ni mg/L <0.05 3
11 Total mg/L <0.01 2
 Chromium Cr
12 Hexavalent mg/L <0.01 0.1
 Chromium
 Cr+6
13 Iron as Fe mg/L <0.01 - 14 D.O mg/L 5 5mg/l and above

Statement showing the value of the Bacteriological parameters analysed
Sl.No Parameters Units Point of Collection Primary Water
 Quality Criteria
 Putheri Lake in for Bathing
 Pallavaram Waters
 prescribed by
 Central
 Pollution
 Control Board
1 Total MPN 1700 500 or less. The Report of analysis of the water samples collected from the said water
 body reveals that the Physico chemical parameters analysed satisfy the Inland
 surface water standards prescribed by the Board. Furthermore the water sample
 collected from the Putheri Lake in Pallavaram analysed for Bacteriological
 parameter. Total Coliform exceeds the standards and the (Faecal Coliform)
 meets the Primary Water Quality Criteria for Bathing Waters prescribed by
 Central Pollution Control Board. 3. REPORT OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: 4. REPORT FROM COMMISSIONER, PALLAVARAM MUNICIPALITY 1. Pallavapuram is a Special Gade Municipality 2. Location of the said Putheri lake:Survey No.273 of Zamin Pallavaram Village 3. Extent of Putheri lake: 4.23 hectares 4. Total Area of the Pallavaram Municipality : 18.01 Sq.Km 5. Total Population of the Pallavaram Municipality: 2,15,452 6. Total Household of the Pallavaram Municipality: 75,000 7. No of Wards: 42 8. Total Solid waste generation: 104 T/day ( Biodegradable waste - 52T/day &
 Non Biodegradable Waste - 52 T/day) 9. Total Sewage generation: 9 MLD

 It is submitted that the said complaints regarding the Sewage reaching
 the Putheri Lake had arisen due to the fact that during the Monsoon of 2019,
 there was huge inflow of rain water along with sewage into Underground
 Sewage system (UGSS) of the Pallavapuram Municipality and the same was a
 cause for the overflow of the sewage mixed with Rain water from the pumping
 lines, lifting stations and the pumping stations in a few places. Particularly in the Lifting station in Aishwarya Nagar there was
 overflow of the water that accumulated in the collection well. As there was a
 power failure at the time of the excessive rain the overflow of the sewage and
 flood waters had occurred. Due to this the water mixed with sewage had drained
 into the Putheri Lake through the natural channels in the area. The said overflow was the reason for the sewage mixed with rain water
 to reach the Putheri Lake. The defect in the capacity of the lifting station was
 identified. In order to rectify the same, the capacity of the said Lifting station Page 6 of 12 was improved by increasing the power of the Pumps installed in the Lifting
station. In addition, a new Power Generator has been placed in the Lifting
station at times of power failure. In this regard the two 5HP motors were replaced with two 10 HP motors
and the allied pumps. This essentially increases the capacity of the Lifting
station to more than double its capacity and the said overflow has been now
completely addressed. Moreover, the provision of Generator will ensure that the
Lifting station will function even during the times off power failure and during
the Stormy weather
 Even during the monsoon season from October 2020 till date, the
overflow of the same lifting station has not happened and the UGSS is now
functioning without any overflow or leakages. It is submitted that the overflow
that happened in the Monsoon of 2019 was also due to the fact that the UGSS
was completed in 2017-18 in the left out area and the same was first heavy
monsoon after the completion of the UGSS in the said area. With regard to the maintenance of the Putheri Lake it is submitted that
the Lake is in two parts namely South and North and it is separated by the
Radial Road. The Lifting station is on the Southern part of the lake. The work of
deepening the lake in order to restore its capacity was carried out by
Pallavaram Municipality and completed in the Month of June 2020, utilizing the
CSR Funds through the District Collector, Kancheepuram. The work involved is
desilting, deepening, formation of Bund, footpath around its periphery at an
estimate cost of Rs.30 Lakhs. With regard to the Northern part the same is
deepened with the assistance of an NGO by name Pasumai Sei and the lake has
been restored to its full capacity. Further on 30-12-2020 it as noticed that few loads of solid waste had
been dumped on the northern part of the Putheri Lake on the night of 29-12-
2020. Immediate action was taken and the same was also removed using the
machinery. Action will be taken by the Pallavaram Municipality for removal of
hyacinth in the Putheri Lake. SEWAGE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL ARRANGEMENTS: Commissioner, District Revenue Superintending District
Pallavaram Environmental Divisional Engineer of Collector,
Municipality Engineer, Officer, Public Works Chengalpattu
 Tamil Nadu Tambaram, Department District
 Pollution Chengalpattu and Water
 Control Board, District. Resources
 Maraimalai Organization
 Nagar 4. It is seen from the report that there are certain recommendations made

 which the Pallavaram Municipality has to carry out. They have not

 mentioned anything about the action taken in respect of subsequent

 directions issued by this Tribunal on the basis of the subsequent

 newspaper report regarding the presence of garbage in the water body. The report appears to have been filed on the basis of inspection conducted

 on 28.08.2020. So under such circumstance, we direct the Committee to

 inspect the area again and submit further report on the basis of the

 direction issued by this Tribunal by order dated 18.02.2021. The

 Pallavaram Municipality is also directed to file independent status report

 regarding the remedial measures taken by them and action taken against

 the violators from their side and the Pollution Control Board is also

 directed to take water samples from the area to find out as to whether

 there is any contamination caused and if so what is the remedial measure Page 10 of 12 to be taken. The Committee is also directed to look into the issue and if

 there is any contamination found in the water quality, identify the

 violators and take action against them, suggest the nature of action to be

 taken against them including assessment of environmental compensation

 to be recovered from such persons. They must also mention the nature of

 steps taken for removal of encroachment from the water body and what is

 the present status and also give action plan as to how they are going to

 rejuvenate the water body protecting the same against pollution and

 encroachments with short-term and long-term measures. The Committee

 as well as Pallavaram Municipality and Pollution Control Board are

 directed to submit their respective reports to this Tribunal on or before

 20.04.2021 by e-filing in the form of Searchable PDF/OCR Supportable

 PDF and not in the form of Image PDF along with necessary hardcopies

 to be produced as per Rules. 5. The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the members of the

 committee as well as to the official respondents including the Chief

 Secretary, State of Tamil Nadu and Principal Secretaries for Local

 Administration, Public Works Department and Irrigation Department,

 State of Tamil Nadu by e-mail immediately for information and

 compliance of the direction. 6. For consideration of further reports, post on 20.04.2021. .....................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 .................................E.M.
 (Shri. Saibal Dasgupta)

O.A. No.55/2020,
17th March, 2021. AM.