For the Opposite Party : Mrs. Ruby Pandey, A.P.P. --- 2/23.08.2021 Heard the parties. So far as defect no. 5 (e) is concerned, the learned counsel for the
 petitioner undertakes to remove the same, once the situation normalizes.
 As regards, the rest defects are concerned, the same are ignored. The petitioner is an accused in connection with Chas Mahila P.S.
 Case No. 11 of 2021 corresponding to G. R. No. 587 of 2021. It has been alleged that the petitioner used to blackmail the
 informant by threatening to upload her nude video on social media. It
 has been stated that he had committed rape upon her by intoxicating her
 and had also prepared a video. A complaint was made to the Mahila
 Police Station where he was released on P. R. Bond after tendering an
 apology. It has also been alleged that subsequent thereto the petitioner
 has restarted his earlier act which forced the informant to think of
 committing suicide. It appears that the informant and petitioner were acquainted with
 each other since long and he has also stated about the various
 photographs and chats existing between them which is supportive of the
 said fact. It has also been stated that the petitioner is a physically
 challenged person suffering from polio. The petitioner is in custody
 since 22.03.2021. Learned A.P.P. for the State has opposed the prayer for bail.
 There appears to be a love affair which was in existence between
 the petitioner and the informant. In fact the allegations made against the
 petitioner of preparing a video by intoxicating her and committing rape
 upon her seems to be vague assertions as even though, -2- a complaint has been made to Mahila Police Station, but the petitioner
 was released on P. R. Bond. On consideration of the aforesaid facts, the petitioner above named
 is directed to be released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 10,000/-
 (Ten Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each, to the
 satisfaction of learned C.J.M., Bokaro in connection with Chas Mahila
 P.S. Case No. 11 of 2021 corresponding to G. R. No. 587 of 2021. (Rongon Mukhopadhyay, J)

R. Shekhar Cp 3