1. This Larger Bench was constituted to decide the important 4 questions of law, which were referred on 26.02.2001, re-framed on

16.05.2001, 01.03.2011 and again on 17.12.2014 as follows:- 2. A large number of writ petitions are pending in the Rajasthan

High Court at Principal Seat, Jodhpur as well as at Bench, Jaipur,

awaiting the decision on these questions referred by a learned Single

Judge of this Court at Jaipur Bench in S.B.Civil Writ Petition

No.3263/1997 Ramesh Chand Tiwari & anr. V/s State of

Rajasthan & ors. (2000(2) RLR 269) on 21st February, 2000.

Learned Single Judge referred to the Division Bench judgment of this 5 Court in Ram Lal & anr. V/s Board of Revenue & ors. (1990(1)

RLR 161), in which it was held that the deity/idol is a juristic person,

having right to hold the property including the agricultural land and

that, the land in question not being khudkasht of the deity and was

cultivated by the tenants, as such, after the resumption of jagirs, the

land should be treated as khatedari land of the tenants and another

judgment of learned Single Judge in Bal Kishan V/s Board of

Revenue and ors. (2000 (1) RLR 69), in which, relying on the

judgment of the Apex Court in Deepa V/s State of Rajasthan &

ors. ((1996) 1 SCC 612), it was held that the petitioner acquired

the tenancy rights over the Muafi land of the deity under the

provisions of Sections 9 and 10 of the Rajasthan Land Reforms &

Resumption of Jagirs Act, 1952 (for short, "the Jagirs Act of

1952"). It was noticed that a Division Bench of this Court in the case

of Mangi Lal & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (1997(2) RLR 755) had held that the deity/idol is treated to be a minor or

physically disabled person and acquires khatedari rights over the

land and such rights cannot be transferred to any other person and

that necessary corrections can be made inspite of inordinate delay.

In Temple of Thakurji Village Kansar V/s The State of

Rajasthan & ors. (1998(3) WLC(Raj.) 387) and Ram Lal & ors.

V/s Board of Revenue (2000(1) RLR 258) as well as in Naini Bai

& ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (2000(1) RLR 143), the

rights of the deity were upheld by learned Single Judge. The point of

delay in making the reference was also considered in the case of

Lad Bai & ors. V/s Board of Revenue (2000(1) RLR 123). 3. Learned Single Judge noticed that in all the aforesaid 6 decisions, there is absence of any clarity on the questions of law and

felt that in view of the large number of cases pending in the revenue

courts at various stages, it would be appropriate that this Court may

decide the issues by framing appropriate questions. 4. A Division Bench of this Court in D.B.Civil Special Appeal

No.185/2001 Tara & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan, vide order

dated 26.2.2001, referred the matter to the then Hon'ble Chief

Justice to constitute a Larger Bench by tagging all the matters. A

Larger Bench of three Hon'ble Judges was constituted by the then

Hon'ble Chief Justice, which framed the questions of law on

16.5.2001. 5. With the passage of time, the Larger Benches were re-

constituted by the then Hon'ble Chief Justices on various dates. On

1.3.2011, in D.B.Civil Special Appeal No.185/2001 Tara & ors. V/s

State of Rajasthan, the questions were re-framed. The matters

still remained pending and that on 17.12.2014, after hearing the

parties, the questions re-framed as above with the help of arguing

counsels, were directed to be heard with opportunity given to the

arguing parties to file their written submissions. The matter was

finally heard on 12th May, 2015. 6. After hearing learned counsels appearing for the parties at

length, who have also filed their written submissions, we find that

the legal position was fairly well settled by Hon'ble Supreme Court in

Thakur Amar Singhji & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (AIR

1955 S.C. 504), Budha V/s Amilal (1991 Supp(2) SCC 41), Bir

Singh & ors. V/s Pyare Singh & ors. ((2000) 3 SCC 652),

Kalanka Devi Sansthan V/s The Maharashtra Revenue, 7 Tribunal Nagpur & ors. (AIR 1970 SC 439) and Deepa V/s State

of Rajasthan & ors. ((1996) 1 SCC 612). The issues were sought

to be re-visited by learned Single Judges and Division Benches of

this Court striking a discordant note on the facts of the case and on

which, a learned Single Judge in Ramesh Chand Tiwari & anr. V/s

State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra) observed that the matter should

be referred to a Larger Bench. The discussion will show that the

anxiety was misplaced. The questions were referred without going

through the previous decisions referred to as above, creating a

doubt which was never felt earlier and which should have been

avoided. 7. Learned Single Judge in Ramesh Chand Tiwari & anr. V/s

State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra) threw the pebble in pond, which

was otherwise calm, causing ripples which have lead to filing of

thousands of claims, much beyond the reasonable period by persons

interested in the lands of deity/idol. The erstwhile Jagirdars,

Mandatum, Shebaits and all those who have purchased the lands

from them, were encouraged by the alleged doubts over the law,

resulting in thousands of transactions, giving rise to the matters,

which were directed by this Court to await the decision of the Larger

Bench. The unfortunate and uncalled for reference resulted into sale

of thousands of bighas of lands and references made to the

Collectors in respect of the lands, which were resumed long ago. 8. We could have disposed of the reference by referring to the

ratio of the judgments of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Thakur Amar

Singhji & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra), Budha V/s 8 Amilal (supra), Bir Singh & ors. V/s Pyare Singh & ors. (supra),

Kalanka Devi Sansthan V/s The Maharashtra Revenue, Tribunal

Nagpur & ors. (supra) and Deepa V/s State of Rajasthan & ors.

(supra), however, since there are a few judgments of learned

Single Judges, which have tried to raise an issue, relying on the

principles and maxims of law relating to status of the Hindu deity

(Idol), it is necessary to discuss and answer the questions.

Question No.(i) Whether the land held in Jagir, by Hindu Idol
(deity) as Dolidar or Muafidar cultivated by a person other
than the Shebait/Pujari of the deity or by hired labour or
servants engaged by its Shebait/Pujari as a tenant of the
deity, such idol being treated as a perpetual minor, will still
be regarded as land held in the personal cultivation of the
deity or will such land be regarded as held in the tenancy by
the person cultivating such land as tenant of a deity? 9. In the State of Rajasthan, prior to abolition of jagirs by the Jagirs Act of 1952, there were two categories of land, namely, the

lands held by the Ex-rulers known as "khalsa lands" and the lands

held by Jagirdars as 'Jagir lands', in different parts of Rajasthan. All

the principalities had agreed to accede to the Rajasthan Union

beginning from March, 1948 to May 1949 constituting United States

of Rajasthan, as it finally emerged in the Covenant entered into by

the 14 Rulers on 30th March, 1949. The authority of the Rajpramukh

to enact the legislation was founded on this Covenant to unite and

integrate their territories in one State with a common executive,

legislature and judiciary by the name of the United State of

Rajasthan. Tracing the history of the Jagirs Act of 1952, in Thakur 9 Amar Singhji & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra), Hon'ble

Venkatarama Ayyar,J upheld the constitutional validity of the

Covenant and the Jagirs Act of 1952. Referring to the meaning of

"Jagir", it was held that all the lands of the State must fall within one

or the other of the two categories, khalsa or jagir, and that the

essential features of a jagir are that it was held under a grant from

the ruler, and that the grant is of the land revenue. Both in popular

sense and legislative practice, the word "jagir" is used as connoting

State grants, which conferred on the grantees the rights in respect

of land revenue. It was not limited to its original and primary

meaning as a grant made for military service rendered or to be

rendered, and it cannot be said that accordingly other grants such as

maintenance grants made in favour of near relations and

dependents would not be covered by it. Article 31A of the

Constitution of India saved legislation which was directed to the

abolition of intermediaries so as to establish direct relationship

between the State and the tillers of the soil, and construing the word

in that sense which would achieve that object in a full measure, it

was held that 'jagir' was meant to cover all grants under which the

grantees had only rights in respect of revenue and were not the

tillers of the soil. Maintenance grants in favour of persons, who were

not cultivators such as members of the ruling family were held to be

jagirs for the purposes of Article 31-A of the Constitution of India. The Jagirs Act of 1952 was found to fall within the ambit of Article

31A , by which the Jagirs were abolished. The Supreme Court

considered the various connotations of Jagirs or similar grants such

as Bhomiats under the Mewar Government Kanoon Mal Act No.V of 10 1947, Tikanadars of Shekhawati under the Jagirs Act of 1952,

Subeguzars, the estate of Yaswentgarh in the State of Alwar and

held that the definition of "Jagir" under section 2(h) of the Jagirs Act

of 1952 is subject to any contrary intention which the context might

disclose and when section 22(1)(a) enacts that on the resumption of

jagir lands, the rights of the Jagirdars in the lands should cease, it

clearly means that the holders of jagirs are Jagirdars for the purpose

of the section. There cannot be jagirs without there being Jagirdars,

and therefore the word 'Jagirdar' in Section 22(1)(a) must mean all

holders of jagirs including the tenures mentioned in the Schedule of

the Act . 10. It was further held by the Supreme Court in Thakur Amar

Singhji & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra) that if a person

does not make any payment in respect of an estate, it must be Muafi

and that would also be within Article 31-A (paragraph 69) and did

not accept the contention based on the narration in Tod's Annals of

Rajasthan, Volume II, pp. 25, 26, 140 and 141 that the properties of

the petitioners are not jagirs. The Supreme Court went on to hold in

paragraph 86 that the Jagirs Act of 1952 did not confer any power

on the Government to grant exemption. All the jagirs were liable to

be resumed under section 20, no option being left with the

Government in that matter. Section 4 of the Act enacted that all

jagir lands become liable to pay assessment from the

commencement of the Act and the liabilities of the Jagirdars to pay

tribute also ceased as from that date. There cannot therefore be any

doubt that it was the intention of the Legislature that all jagir lands

should be resumed under section 21, which was later on deleted, 11 which authorized the State to resume different classes of jagir lands

on different dates, for practical considerations, such as

administrative convenience and facilities for payment of

compensation and cannot be held to be discriminatory. 11. In paragraph 98 of the judgment in Thakur Amar Singhji &

ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra), the Supreme Court dealt

with the case of one of the villages forming part of this estate,

Jorpura, in which it was held that the land was dedicated for worship

of the Devi and was therefore, within the exemption enacted in

section 20 and a document was also produced to support the claim.

It was held that the question as to whether the grant is not in its

entirety in favour of the deity, was a question of fact, which does

not require determination and made it open to the petitioner to

establish in appropriate proceedings that the village or any portion

thereof was within the meaning of Section 20 of the Act. The

question of fact with regard to the nature of the grant under the

deity was an isolated question, which was required to be decided as

to whether the grant can be separated for the purpose of resumption

under section 20. This however, did not unsettle any of the

questions, which were decided by the Supreme Court. 12. To sum up, in paragraph 102, the Supreme Court in Thakur

Amar Singhji & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra) held that

the Jagirs Act of 1952 is not open to attack either on the ground that

the Rajpramukh had no legislative competence to enact it, or that

the procedure prescribed in Article 212-A of the Constitution of India

for enactment of laws had not been followed. The Jagirs Act of 1952

is, in substance, one for acquisition of property, and is within the 12 legislative competence of the State, and it is protected by Article 31-

A. However, with regard to some of the properties as izaras, it was

held to be bad as izaras were not found to be within the impugned Jagirs Act of 1952. The properties in Petition No.36 of 1955 were

found to be dedicated for religious services and were exempted

under section 20 of the Act. The right of the petitioner in Petition

No.468 of 1954 to claim exemption under section 20 of the Act for

the village of Jorpura on the ground that it was dedicated for

worship of the deity was reserved and the petition was otherwise

dismissed. 13. In Budha V/a Amilal (supra), the Apex Court in 1991 was

concerned with the question as to whether the appellant, on the

date of vesting of biswedari estate under the Jagirs Act of 1952,

acquired khatedari rights over the lands in dispute on the basis that

the same were his khudkasht lands although he was not in actual

possession of the same on the said date. The Supreme Court

dismissing the appeal held that the expression "Khudkasht" has not

been defined in the Act and in view of Section 2(6) of the Act, the

definition of the said expression contained in the Rajasthan Tenancy

Act, 1955 will be applicable. The word "Khudkasht" means personal

cultivation. The definition of this expression contained in Section 5

(23) of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, which is in two parts, indicated

that it has been used in the same sense in the Jagirs Act of 1952.

The expression 'khudkasht' as defined in Section 5(23) of the

Rajasthan Tenancy Act would not include land in possession of and

cultivated by a tenant or mortgagee. The entry in jamabandies

recording the appellant as 'kastkar' against the suit lands could not 13 be treated as entry of 'khudkasht' envisaged in clause (i) of the

inclusive part of the definition of 'khudkasht' in section 5(23) of the

Rajasthan Tenancy Act, especially when it was not the case of the

appellant that after the execution of the mortgages the defendant

mortgagee had parted with the possession of the mortgaged

property in favour of the appellant and had allowed the appellant to

cultivate the lands. The Supreme Court relied on the expression

"land cultivated personally" defined in clause (25) of Section 5 of the

Rajasthan Tenancy Act and Section 5(2) providing for consequences

of abolition of zamindari and biswedari estates as well as Section 29

which made the provision for conferring khatedari rights in

khudkasht land. The Supreme Court explained the meaning of

"khudkasht" in paragraph 10 of the judgment as follows: An exception has been made in the proviso in respect of
 widows, minors, persons subject to physical or mental
 disability, members of military, air or naval service of India
 and students of an educational institution recognized by the
 State Government who are below the age of twenty five years
 and their land is to be deemed to be cultivated personally 14 even in the absence of such personal supervision. By the
 inclusive part of the definition of "Khudkasht" contained in
 Section 5(23) of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act lands which are
 recorded as Khudkasht, sir, havala, niji-jot, gharkhed in
 settlement records at the commencement of this Act in
 accordance with law in force at the time when such record was
 made and lands allotted after such commencement as
 Khudkasht under any law for the time being in force in any
 part of the State, are to be treated as Khudkasht. Here also
 the emphasis is on personal cultivation which is to be inferred
 from the entry in the settlement records at the
 commencement of the Rajasthan tenancy Act or the purpose
 for which the land was allotted after the commencement of the
 Act. The expression :"Khudkasht" as defined in Section 5(23) of the Rajasthan tenancy Act, would, in our opinion, not
 include and in possession of land cultivated by a tenant or
 mortgagee." 14. In Bir Singh & ors. V/s Pyare Singh & ors. (supra), in the year

2000, relying on Budha V/s Amilal (supra), the Supreme Court held

interpreting Sections 2 , 5 , 29 and 30 of the Rajasthan Zamindari and

Biswedari Abolition Act, 1959 that Zamindar became entitled to

khatedari tenancy rights in khudkasht land only if he was in

occupation thereof on the date of vesting under the Act. Once the

land vested in the State, Zamindar was divested of any right of

possession and thus, was not entitled to maintain a suit for recovery

of possession of the land from any other person. 15. The most important judgment to consider the issue raised in

the present reference was rendered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Kalanka Devi Sansthan V/s The Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal

Nagpur and ors. (supra), in which the Supreme Court referring to

the definition of the word " "to cultivate personally" under section 2 15 (12) of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha

Region) Act, 1958 held in paragraph 4 as follows:- In other words the intention is that the cultivation of
 the land concerned must be by natural persons and not by legal
 persons." 16. Whatever doubts were left with regard to the land held in

jagir, by Hindu Idol (deity) as Dolidar or Maufidar cultivated by a

person other than the Shebait/Pujari were led to rest in Deepa V/s

State of Rajasthan and ors (supra). In the short judgment, the

Supreme Court referring to abolition of jagirs under the Jagirs Act of

1952, held that the name of the appellant (Deepa) had been

recorded as cultivator by Samvat 2012 because of which the land

could not be regarded as khudkasht of the Jagirdar which would

make Section 10 of the Jagirs Act of 1952, inoperative and so, the

respondent's name could not be recorded as khatedar tenant. If a 17 person becomes a khatedar tenant, then by the force of Section 9 of the Jagirs Act of 1952, his right becomes heritable and fully

transferable. 17. We do not find that there was any such proposition of law in

Ram Lal & anr. V/s Board of Revenue (supra), which could have

unsettled the law. In Ram Lal & anr. V/s Board of Revenue & ors., it

was clearly held that where the agricultural land was held by the

deity, which is a perpetual minor, the khatedar tenants and

resumption of Muafi and grant of annuity did not in any way

derogate from its authority to hold the land as khatedar. The land in

question was not khudkasht land of deity, but was cultivated by

tenants and on resumption of Jagir the land should be treated as

khatedari land of the tenants. Referring to the meaning of khudkasht

and the exclusion of khudkasht land, which remains with the

khatedar on the resumption of Jagirs Act, 1952, the Division Bench

held as follows:- Provided that in the case of a person who is a widow or a
minor or is subject to any physical or mental disability or is a
member of the Armed Forces of the Union, or who being a
student of an educational institution recognized by the
Government is below the age of twenty five years, land shall
be deemed to be cultivated personally even in absence of such
personal supervision. 15. Thus, it is clear that either it must be cultivated with
one's own labour or the labour of the family member or by
servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not by way of
share in crop on the resumption of jagir, the khudkasht land
remained with the khatedar and the other land vested in the
State. Under Section-9 of the Act of 1952, every tenant in a
Jagir land who at the commencement of this Act is entered in
the revenue as a Khamdar, Pattedar or under any other 19 description implying that the tenant has heritable and full
transferable rights in the tenancy shall continue to have such
rights and shall be called a Khatedar tenant in respect of such
land. 16. Section 18 deals with the maximum area of the
khudkast. Section 19 deals with the categories of lands that
may be allotted. 17. It will not be out of place here to mention that the land
held by the tenant cannot be allotted to Jagidar. Section 22
deals with the consequences of resumption. The consequence
of resumption is that except the khudkast land the right, title
and interest of the khatedar in his Jagir Lands including the
forests, trees, fisheries etc. stand resumed to the Government
free from all encumbrances. Under the Zamindari and
Bishwedari Act no. 8 of 1959 also there are similar provisions
relating to the khudkast land. Under the Act of 1959, all lands
vested in the Government except the khudkast land. It is not
necessary for us to go into the provisions of law which were
applicable in the erstwhile State of Jaipur. 18. In the case of Kalankar Devi v.State of Maharashtra
(AIR 1970 SC 439), Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that
Hindu idol is a juristic person. It cannot cultivate personally
within Explanation I to Section 2(12) of the Bombay Tenancy
and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha Region) (Act 99 of 1958). The
explanation No.I provides in the said Act that minor or a
persons subject to any mental or physical disability shall be
deemed to cultivate the land personally if it is cultivated by her
or his servant or by Halwal. In the instant case, this case does
not apply and even the non-petitioners have not come with a
case that the land was cultivated by the servant or through
hired labour. There is sufficient material on record to show that
it was not a khudkast land, but the land was cultivated by the
tenants, which is clear from Annexure-6 and other documents.
The finding of the Board of Revenue seems to be perverse on
this point and the Board of Revenue has not considered the
relevant entries particularly, about the right of tenancy of the 20 petitioner at all." 18. The judgments in Bal Kishan V/s Board of Revenue & ors.

(2000 RRD 14), Kanchan Bai & ors. V/s Board of Revenue &

ors. (2000 RRD 109) and Gauri Shanker & ors. V/s State of

Raj. & ors. (2000 RRD 189), were all rendered by same learned

Single Judge (J.C.Verma,J.), the judgment of the Division Bench in

Prabhu Das V/s State of Raj. & ors. (1993 RRD 319) following

the judgment in Ram Lal & anr. V/s Board of Revenue & ors. (supra)

and the judgment in Idan V/s State of Raj. & anr. (S.B.Civil Writ

Petition No.1325/2000) decided on 11.7.2000, did not, in our

opinion, deviate from the principles of law as was laid down in the

aforesaid cases. In Idan's case (supra), the principle that a deity is

a perpetual minor and can hold the property was mixed with the

principles of "lex non cogit ad impossibilia" (the law does not compel

a man to do what he cannot possibly perform) and "impossibiliium

nulla obligatio est" (the law does not expect the party to do the

impossible) and applying these maxims, it was held that since the

law does not require a deity, which is minor in perpetuity and juristic

person, to cultivate the land by itself, the judgment in Ram Lal's

case (supra) requires reconsideration. It was observed that the

proviso that in case of minor, the requirement of personal

cultivation need not be necessary by personal supervision, was not

considered in Ram Lal 's case (supra) and thus, the judgment

remains per incuriam. In the last paragraph, learned Single Judge

observed that as the entry made by the Settlement Authorities in

favour of the petitioner's father was without competence, the

acceptance of the reference could not be held to be suffering from 21 any illegality and on the facts do not warrant any interference. 19. In our opinion, an unnecessary and unwarranted doubt was

expressed in Idan's case (supra) on the ratio in Ram Lal & anr. V/s

Board of Revenue & ors. (supra) on the basis of maxims, which

were not applicable for the purposes of consideration as to whether

under the Jagirs Act of 1952, all kind of jagirs were abolished and

the land was acquired and not resumed. The maxims were cited out

of context. As held in Thakur Amar Singhji & ors. V/s State of

Rajasthan & ors. (supra) without any exception that only those lands

were left which were khudkast lands either with jagirdars and which

were in their cultivation. 20. The legislature by enacting Jagirs Act of 1952 included the Doli

and Muafi lands of the deity as jagirs. Schedule I of the Jagirs Act of

1952 included the land held in Jagirs as Doli and Maufi. All the lands

were resumed by the State vide Notification issued under section 21 of the Jagirs Act of 1952. No jagir of any deity was resumed prior

to coming into force of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 on

15.10.1955. The consequences of resumption, which was held to be

acquisition by the Supreme Court in Thakur Amar Singhji & ors. V/s

State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra) are given in Section 22 of the

Jagirs Act of 1952. Section 22(1)(a) provides that the right, title and

interest of the Jagirdar and every other person claiming through him

shall stand resumed to the Government free from all encumbrances,

The deity, therefore, even if it is to be treated as perpetual minor,

ceased to have any interest or right in the jagir lands in which deity

was recorded as Dolidar or Muafidar. Section 23 of the Jagirs Act of

1952 permitted the Jagirdar to continue in possession of the lands, 22 which were khudkasht on the date of resumption of jagir. It was

necessary for all Jagirdars including Hindu Idol (deity) that they had

khudkasht lands before claiming khatedari rights in the area of lands

held as khudkasht. The right and title of the persons claiming

through the Deity were not different than that of deity. Their rights

were also resumed under section 22(1) of the Jagirs Act of 1952.

They did not have any independent right other than rights of Hindu

Idol (deity). Section 9 of the Jagirs Act of 1952 allowed the

khatedari rights of the tenant on which they had direct relations with

the State Government. Section 22(1) of the Jagirs Act of 1952

provided that the right and title of the person claiming through

Hindu Idol (deity) also stood resumed to the State. 21. In Thakur Amar Singhji & ors. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors.

(supra), the Supreme Court held that the Jagirs Act of 1952 is an Act

for acquisition of Jagirs, though in the Act, it was mentioned as

resumption. The Jagirs Act of 1952 was protected by the provisions

of Article 31A(2) of the Constitution of India. The various grants

named in the first schedule of the Jagirs Act of 1952 were all jagirs

including Maufi and Doli and stood acquired under the Jagirs Act of

1952. The Supreme Court in Thakur Amar Singhji & ors. V/s State of

Rajasthan & ors. (supra) finally decided all the issues raised before

it, on which the law was settled. There was absolutely no reason to

express any doubt or to take a different view. The judgment of the

Supreme Court is binding on all the authorities and especially on

the State which includes the courts, on the issues raised and decided

by it. The rights of the Hindu Idol (Deity) in the land held by it as

Jagirs thus came to an end and stood vested in the State with a 23 limited right of cultivating the land as khudkasht and only those

lands which were khudkasht lands in accordance with the provisions

of Section 2(i) and 2(k) of the Jagirs Act of 1952 and Section 5(23) and 5(25) of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955, could be claimed and

regarded as held in tenancy by Hindu Idol (deity) through

Pujari/Mahant/Shebait for the purposes of performing sewa pooja or

other religious activities. All the persons, who were cultivating the

land as tenants of Hindu Idol (deity) on the land became khatedars

and held the lands as tenants of the State. 22. In Budha V/s Amilal (supra) and Bir Singh & ors. V/s Pyare

Singh & ors. (supra), the Supreme Court considered the term

"khudkasht" and their rights under the Rajasthan Zamindari and

Biswedari Abolition Act, 1959 . It was held that in order to claim

lands and rights, the Khudkasht, Jamidar and Biswadar must be in

possession of the land.He cannot claim khudkasht land if he is not in

possession. Where the land was admittedly cultivated by the tenant

of the Hindu Idol (deity) and that the Hindu Idol (deity) was not in

possession through Mehant/Shebait, it could not be treated as

khudkasht and could not claim any khatedari rights in the land. The

Supreme Court clearly held that the expression "khudkasht" has not

been defined in the Rajasthan Zamindari and Biswedari Abolition

Act, 1959 , but in view of Section 2(6) , the definition of "khudkasht"

in Section 5(23) of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 will apply. The

expression "khudkasht" will not include the land cultivated by a

tenant. All those lands, which were not khudkasht of the Hindu Idol

(deity) cultivated through Mehant/Shebait and were in possession

with tenants, could not be held by Hindu Idol (deity) as khatedari 24 lands. 23. It is wholly irrelevant as to whether the Hindu Idol (deity) is a

perpetual minor and whether it held jagir lands. The principles of

Hindu Law and all the Special Legislations of Hindu Endowment are

not applicable to the rights of tenancy, which were to be governed

by the Jagirs Act of 1952, as the land was held of jagir and the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 . The judgments of learned Single

Judges of this Court accepting the Hindu Idol (deity) as perpetual

minor and its capacity to hold the property are rendered in

ignorance of the tenancy rights of the Hindu Idol (deity) to be

governed by the Jagirs Act of 1952, and the Rajasthan Tenancy Act,

1955 . 24. In Kalanka Devi Sansthan V./s The Maharashtra Revenue,

Tribunal and ors. (supra), the Supreme Court in reference to Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha Region) Act, 1958 discussed the well known concept in Hindu law that when the

property is given absolutely for the worship of an idol it vests in the

idol itself as a juristic person. Thereafter, the Supreme Court

discussed the question of the rights of the tenancy of such juristic

person and held in paragraph 4, as quoted above, that the idol

would be in the same position as a minor and it can certainly

cultivate the land personally. It was held that in case idol is treated

to have cultivated the land, it should be personal cultivation in which

a direct nexus should be established between the person who makes

such a claim (Hindu idol (deity)) and the agricultural processes or

activities carried on the land. All the agricultural operations, though

allowed to be done through hired labour or workers must be under 25 the labour or workers must be under the direct supervision, control

or management of the landlord, without any intermediary. The

concept of juristic person has to be understood in the sense that

such juristic person must be cultivating the land having direct nexus

with the cultivation on the land. The Supreme Court further held that

the distinction between a manger or a Shebait of an idol and a

trustee where a trust has been created is well recognized. The

properties of the Trust in law vest in the trustee whereas in the case

of an idol or a Sansthan they do not vest in the manager or the

Shebait. It is the deity or the Sansthan which owns and holds the

properties. It is only the possession and the management which vest

in the manager. In order to appreciate the proposition, it is

necessary to quote the relevant portion of para 5 of the judgment as

follows:- 25. In our opinion, on the aforesaid settled principles of law, the

Hindu idol (deity) could only hold such lands in Jagir, which 26 Shebait/Pujari was cultivating for such deity, having direct nexus

with agricultural operations either themselves or through hired

labour or servant engaged by them as to claim to be khudkasht and

to be protected from resumption/acquisition under the Jagirs Act of

1952. If the land was given for cultivation to a tenant or was

cultivated through a tenant, such land became khatedari of the

tenant and on which the tenant had direct relations with the State. The Jagirs Act of 1952 took away all the rights of the Jagirdars

including Hindu Idol (deity) as Dolidar or Muafidar on the land

cultivated by the tenants. They ceased to have any right on such

land. The Shebait/Pujari could not have any independent status to

have claimed any right over such land cultivated by tenants. Such

tenancy could also not be regarded as sub-tenant of Hindu Idol

(deity) to confer any right on the Hindu Idol (deity). 26. In view of the above discussion, we decide the question

no.(i) in favour of the State and against the Shebait/Pujari

claiming the land to be saved by the Jagirs Act of 1952. The

land held in Jagir by Hindu idol (deity) as Dolidar or Muafidar

cultivated by a person other than the Shebait/Pujari of the

deity personally or by hired labour or servants engaged by its

Shebait/Pujari as a tenant of the deity, shall vest in the

State, after the Jagirs Act of 1952. The Hindu idol (deity),

even if it is treated to be a perpetual minor, could not

continue to hold such land. Such land cannot be treated to be

in its personal cultivation. A tenant of such land cultivating

the land acquired the rights of khatedar of the State. Such

land under the tenancy of a person other than 27 Shebait/Purjari of Hindu Idol (deity) became khatedari land

of such tenant. The name of Hindu Idol (deity) from such

land had to be expunged from the revenue records with

Shebait/Pujuri having no right to claim the land as Khatedar.

Consequently, they had no right to transfer such lands, and

all such transfers have to be treated as null and void, in

contravention of the Jagirs Act 1952, and the land under such

transfers to be resumed by the State. Question No.(ii).-What are the rights of the Hindu Idol
(deity) in the lands held by them in the name of its
Shebaits/Pujari on the date of resumption of such Jagir,
under the provisions of the Rajasthan Land Reforms &
Resumption of Jagir Act, 1952 ? 27. This question is linked with question no.(i). Every tenant in

the Jagir land, who at the commencement of the Jagirs Act of 1952,

was entered in the revenue records as Khatedar or pattedar or

khademdar or under any other description became a khatedar

having heritable and full transferable rights in the tenancy. In

Deepa V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra), the Supreme Court

upheld the contention that where the tenant was recorded as

cultivator in Samvat 2012, the land could not be regarded as

khudkasht of Jagirdar. In the Board of Revenue, the contention was

that Deepa's father had been given the land for cultivation on "Panti

Basis" i.e. on share basis, which would clearly show that the land

was under the tenancy of Deepa's father and in lieu of cash he was

to pay in kind. Under Chapter III-A of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act,

1955 , even a sub-tenant of khudkasht land becomes a khatedar 28 tenant on the required procedure being followed, which was satisfied

because of what was recorded in the Khasra Girdawari. The

Supreme Court thereafter held that if a person becomes a khatedar

tenant, then by the force of Section 9 of the Jagirs Act of 1952, his

right becomes heritable and fully transferable and so, the contrary

view taken by the authorities was not correct. Further, Section 13 of

the Marwar Tenancy Act, 1949 provided that the interest of a tenant

is heritable but is not transferable otherwise than in accordance

with the provisions of that Act. Even if Section 13 is kept out of

consideration, Deepa (appellant) had to be accepted as a tenant and

a khatedar tenant at that and so, the revenue records could not

have been corrected to show the respondent as the khatedar tenant. 28. In Kalanka Devi Sansthan V/s The Maharshtra Revenue,

Tribunal Nagpur & ors. (supra), the Supreme Court considered the

the words "to cultivate personally" under section 2(12) of the

Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha Region) Act,

1958, which mean to cultivate on one's own account i.e. by one's

own labour, or by the labour of any member of one's family, or

under the personal supervision of oneself or of any member of one's

family by hired labour or by servants on wages payable in cash or

kind but not in crop share. The definition of 'personal cultivation' is

similar to the definition of 'personal cultivation' in the Jagirs Act of

1952 and the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 . The exception was only

for a widow under Explanation-I of Section 2(12) of the Bombay

Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha Region) Act, 1958, in

which a widow or a minor or a person who is subject to any physical

or mental disability, or a serving member of the armed forces could 29 be deemed to cultivate the land personally if it is cultivated by her or

his servants or by hired labourer. In order to become personal

cultivation, the cultivation of the land concerned must be by a

natural person and not by a legal person. There cannot be any

personal cultivation by juridical person. The Supreme Court did not

accept the argument that Hindu Idol (deity) being a perpetual minor

could be taken to be cultivating the land personally, if the land was

cultivated by servant or hired labour. It was held that since Hindu

idol (deity) could have no personal cultivation and that as per the

definitions of 'khudkasht' and 'personal cultivation', there could be

no claim of khudkasht by the Hindu Idol (deity) and therefore, the

tenant in possession on the date of resumption became khatedar

tenant. In Ram Lal and anr. V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra),

the Division Bench of this Court following Kalanka Devi V/s The

Maharashtra Revenue, Tribunal, Nagpur & ors. (supra), held that a

tenant was entitled to khatedari rights after resumption of jagir.

The view was consistently followed by learned Single Judges of this

Court in in Bal Kishan V/s Board of Revenue (supra), Kanchan Bai &

ors. V/s Board of Revenue & ors. (supra) and Gauri Shanker & ors.

V/s State of Raj. & ors. (supra), in which it was held that the tenants

acquired khatedari rights after the resumption of jagir. 29. A different note was struck in Prabhu Das V/s State of Raj. &

ors. (supra) and in Idan V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra),

without considering the judgments of the Supreme Court and the

settled position of law, which could not have been doubted. The

decisions in Prabhu Das V/s State of Raj. & ors. (supra) and Idan

V/s State of Rajasthan & ors. (supra) are per incuriam, in ignorance 30 of the judgments of the Supreme Court cited above and on the same

principles, the judgment of learned Single Judge in State of

Rajasthan V/s Tara and ors. (S.B.Civil Writ Petition No.4232/1999)

decided on 7.2.2001, which gave rise to the Special Appeal, which

has been referred to the Larger Bench, is also per incuriam, to the

principles of law settled by the Supreme Court. 30. In view of the above, we answer the question no.(ii) in

favour of the State and against the persons claiming land for

Hindu idol (deity) as Dolidar or Muafidar. The Hindu Idol

(deity) in the lands held by them in the name of its

Shebait/Pujari on the date of resumption of such Jagir under

the provisions of the Jagirs Act of 1952 did not have any

rights except in khudkasht land cultivated by Shebait/Pujari

either by themselves or by hired labour or servant engaged

by them for the benefit of the expenses of the temple

including sewa puja. All those lands let out by them to the

tenants or sub-tenants were resumed by the Jagirs Act of

1952 and that the Hindu idol (deity) lost all the rights in such

jagir lands. Question No.(iii).-Whether such a Jagir land/Muafi held by
the Shebait/Pujari of Hindu Idol (deity) in their name after
the date of resumption of the Jagir (Muafi) can be alienated
by them? If so, what is the effect? 31. Under section 191 of the Marwar Land Revenue Act, no grant

was transferable by Jagirdar. The same was the position in Jaipur

Tenancy Act, 1945 and the Jaipur State Grants Land Tenures Act, 31 1947, which was enacted to consolidate and amend the laws

relating to tenancies in State grants, the rights and obligations of

tenants therein, the fixation of rent and other allied matters. Under

the Jaipur State Grants Land Tenures Act, 1947 (for short, "the

Act of 1947"), the tenancy rights were not created in favour of Maufi

Mandir. The words "Estate", "Estate Holder" and "State Grant

Tenants" have been defined under the Act of 1947. The land

cultivated through the estate holder at the commencement of the

Act of 1947 or may be cultivated at any time thereafter, either by

himself or by his servants or by hired labour, could be treated as

khudkast land. In the case of land belonging to Hindu Idol (deity),

Section 152 was not applicable because neither the estate holder

was cultivating the land nor it was cultivated through his servant or

hired labour. The provisions of Section 152(b) were not applicable as

the State had not granted the land as khudkasht. After coming into

force of the Jagirs Act of 1952, there was no grant or sanad on

record and no order conferring khatedaeri rights by the Government

was produced by the petitioner, namely, Mandir Thakur Govind

Devji Maharaj in Writ Petition No.12265/2012 transferred from

Jaipur Bench to Jodhpur. The Jagir Commissioner clearly held that no

such sanad/grant was produced by the Mahant claiming to be

khatedar. The land was not recorded as khudkasht in the records. It

was only in respect of a few khasra of village out of 36 villages in

which 180,000 bighas of land including the village Amer was

recorded as khatedar for which khatedari rights were granted under section 10 of the Jagirs Act of 1952. The entire land except in few

khasras where the land is recorded as khatedari, stood resumed 32 vide notification dated 1.1.1959. 32. It is brought on record in the orders of the Jagir

Commissioner that a claim was made by the then Mahant on which

the annuity was duly determined by the Jagir Commissioner vide

order dated 24.8.1962. This determination of annuity clearly

extinguishes all the rights of Mahant and on which the entire land

stood vested in the State Government free from all encumbrances

and the religious jagir of Thakur Govind Devji had no right over the

said land. In respect of lands of village Amer, the lands in Khasra

No.6388 and 6389 in village Amer were recorded in the name of

Pujari of Govind Devji and after its resumption, a suit was filed,

which was decreed and on which the khatedari rights were granted

to the plaintiff. The land was thereafter purchased by a Hotel. Even

thereafter, the lands remained recorded in the name of Thakur

Govind Devji, whereas no rights were left to be claimed as khatedari

rights to allow the name of the Hindu idol (deity) to continue in the

revenue records. No rights could be conferred in favour of the

religious jagir after its resumption nor its Mahant/Shebait could be

recorded as Khatedar. They did not have any rights to sell the land.

The land came to be resumed and vested in the State after which no

right were claimed or could be claimed for bringing an action in

court. 33. On the aforesaid discussion, the question no.(iii) is also

decided in favour of the State. The Jagir land/Muafi held by

the Shebait/Pujari of Hindu Idol(deity) in their name after

the date of resumption of the Jagir (Muafi) by the Jagirs Act of 1952 will not give them any right nor they could alienate 33 the land. The alienation made by them of such land which

was resumed/acquired by the State Government and for

which claims were made and settled before the Jagir

Commissioner, would be null and void and will have no effect.

Question No.(iv) Whether any person can acquire right by
adverse possession in the lands of aforesaid nature against
the holder? 34. There is no provision in the Jagirs Act of 1952 or in the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 for conferment of khatedari rights by

adverse possession. Once the land is resumed by the State

Government under the Jagirs Act of 1952, it vests in the State

Government. No person can claim rights by adverse possession

against the State Government nor the provisions of Section 27 of

the Limitation Act will apply to the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 as

the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 provides the limitation for filing a

suit for possession against the trespasser. In Dindayal & anr. V/s

Rajaram (AIR 1970 SC 1019), the Supreme Court considered the

question of acquisition of rights in the tenancy under the CP Tenancy

Act, 1920 by adverse possession. It was held that it is one thing to

say that a tenant who who was in possession of the tenancy holding

at the time of dispossession had lost his rights in the holding but it is

another thing to say that a trespasser had become the tenant of that

holding at the end of the prescribed period. The CP Tenancy Act is a Special Act . It only governs those matters for which provisions are

made therein. In other respects the general law continues to apply. Where the Act provides for a limitation for filing a suit for 34 possession, the question of adverse possession does not arise. It

was held in paragraph 13 as follows:- 35. The Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 provides the limitation for 35 bringing an action for dispossession and thus, the principle of law

relating to adverse possession and the action to be brought within

the period specified in Section 27 of the Limitation Act will not apply

to the khatedars under the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 . 36. We, therefore, decide the question no.(iv) in favour of

the State and hold that no person can acquire right by

adverse possession in the lands which were resumed or are

in the tenancy of the tenants as khatedars. The limitation

applicable under the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 for filing

suit for possession against the trespasser will be applicable. The Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 being a Special Act , will

prevail and the provisions of Section 27 of the Limitation Act

will not apply for claiming adverse possession on such lands.

Question No.(v)-Whether any time limit can be fixed for
reference u/s 82 of the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956
and u/s.232 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 in respect of
the land held by a Hindu Idol (deity). If so, to what extent?" 37. Section 82 of the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956 provides

as follows:- 38. Section 232 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 provides as

follows:- 39. Neither Section 232 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 nor Section 82 of the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956 prescribes any

period for exercising the power by the competent authority for

calling and examining the record. Where the period is not prescribed

in the Statute for exercising the power, the power must be exercised

within a reasonable time, except in case of fraud. The reasonable

time has been held to be one to three years in State of Gujarat

V/s Patel Raghave Natha & ors. (AIR 1969 SC 1297), Mansa

Ram V/s S.P.Pathak & ors. (AIR 1983 SC 1239) and State of 37 Punjab V/s Bhatinda District Cooperative Milk Producers

Union Ltd. ((2007) 11 SCC 363). 40. In a recent case in Joint Collector Ranga Reddy District

and anr. V/s D.Narsing Rao and ors. ((2015) 3 SCC 695), it was

held that where no time limit is prescribed under the Statute for

invocation of powers, such power must be exercised within a

reasonable period. If the power is allowed to be exercised after

decades, it would lead to anomalous position leading to uncertainty

and complications seriously affecting the rights of the parties over

immovable properties. The suo motu action cannot be taken after a

long lapse of time. Absence of any period of limitation does not

mean that the power can be exercised at any time, which will make

the exercise of power arbitrary and oppose to the concept of Rule of

Law. Relying on the decision in State of Punjab V/s Bhatinda District

Coop.Milk Producers Union Ltd. (supra), it was held that where no

period of limitation is prescribed, the statutory authority must

exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable period. What, however,

shall be the reasonable period, would depend upon the nature of the

statute, rights and liabilities thereunder and other relevant factors.

The Supreme Court further relied on its earlier decision in

Ibrahimpatnam Taluk Vyavasaya Coolie Sangham V/s

K.Suresh Reddy ( (2003) 7 SC 667) in which in relation to Section

50-B(4) of the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy and

Agricultural Land Act, 1950 providing for suo motu power, it was

held that in absence of necessary and sufficient particulars pleaded

as regards fraud and the date or period of discovery of fraud and

more so when the contention that the suo motu power could be 38 exercised within a reasonable period from the date of discovery of

fraud was not urged, the High Court was right in not examining the

question of fraud alleged to have been committed. The use of the

words "at any time" in sub-section (4) of Section 50-B of the Act

only indicates that no specific period of limitation is prescribed within

which the suo motu power could be exercised. The exercise of

power depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case. In

case of fraud, this power could be exercised within a reasonable

time from the date of detection or discovery of fraud. The words

"at any time" must be understood as reasonable time depending on

the facts and circumstances of each case. 41. In paragraph 16 of the judgment in Joint Collector Ranga

Reddy District and anr. V/s D.Narsing Rao and ors. (supra), it was

held that though no time limit is prescribed in Section 166-B for

exercising suo motu power, however, such power could not have

been exercised after a period of five decades and if allowed to do so

it would lead to anomalous position resulting into uncertainty and

complications seriously affecting the rights of the parties over

immovable properties. In paragraph 25, it was held as follows:- 42. On the aforesaid discussion and in the light of the

judgments of the Supreme Court referred to above, we decide

the question no.(v) in the manner that even if no time limit

has been fixed for reference under Section 82 of the

Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956 and under section 232 of

the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 in respect of the land held

by a Hindu Idol (deity), a reference can be made within a

reasonable time, which will depend upon the facts and

circumstances of each case. Even if the fraud is alleged, the

power must not be exercised after unreasonable period, such

as, after several decades claiming rights over the land. 43. Before parting with the matter, it may be useful to refer the

arguments raised in the written submissions submitted by the State

Government, in which it has relied on the Division Bench judgment

of this Court in Mangi Lal V/s State of Rajasthan (supra) and the

Larger Bench decisions of the Board of Revenue in the matter of

Gurdayal V/s Mandir Shri Shanischarji Maharj (1994 RRD 1)

and Shri Shivram V/s Shri Mishru (1987 RRD 261). It is

submitted that a Hindu Idol (deity) is a perpetual minor and

consequently, for the purposes of the Jagirs Act of 1952 and the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 also. The lands held in Muafi by a

deity, but cultivated by a person other than Shebait of the deity

himself or by hired labour or servant engaged by its Shebait, as a

tenant of the deity, will still be regarded as lands in the personal

cultivation of the deity and khatedari rights shall not accrue to the

person cultivating the land. A person, who immediately preceding 40 the commencement of the Jagirs Act of 1952 entered in the

revenue records as a khatedar, pattedar, khadamdar or under any

other description implying that he is a tenant having heritable and

fully transferable rights in the tenancy of the Muafi land of a Hindu

idol (deity), shall become a khatedar tenant of such land on

resumption of the Muafi for the purposes of the Jagirs Act of 1952

and the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 , however, if he is not so

entered then the khatedaeri rights cannot accure to him on lands

held by a Hindu Idol (deity) after the commencement of the Jargirs

Act of 1952. Reliance has been placed on the judgment of this

Court in Hanuman Prasad V/s State of Rajasthan in which the

Division Bench dismissing the appeals highlighting the orders passed

by the Apex Court regarding the safeguard of the rights of the deity,

a perpetual minor, observed that the trustee/archakas/shebaits/

employees entrusted with the duty of managing and safeguarding

the properties of temples, deities and Devaswom Boards have

usurped and misappropriated such proprieties by setting up false

claims of ownership or tenancy, or adverse possession in collision

with the authorities concerned. Such acts of "fences eating the

crops" should be dealt with sternly. The Government, members or

trustees of the Boards/Trusts and devotees should be vigilant to

prevent any such usurpation or encroachment. It is also the duty of

the courts to protect and safeguard the properties of religious and

charitable institutions from wrongful claims or misappropriation. 44. Further, relying on the judgments of this Court in Mangi Lal

V/s State of Rajasthan (supra) and Ram Lal & anr. V/s Board of

Revenue & ors. (supra) and also the judgments of the Supreme 41 Court in Bishwanath and anr. V/s Thakur Radha Vallabh Ji &

ors. (AIR 1967 SC 1044), Budha V/s Amilal (supra) and Beer Singh

V/s Pyare Singh (supra), it is stated that the deity is a perpetual

minor and its interest is to be protected by the State Government,

Revenue Authorities and the Courts. The Division Bench of this Court

dismissed 17 writ petitions filed by Ram Pratap and ors. holding that

in Muafi lands, the rights of idols/temples were not extinguished as

the lands held by these idols were deemed to be in personal

cultivation. The lands, which were mentioned in Section 23(2) of the

Jagirs Act of 1952, were not subject to resumption under the Jagirs

Act of 1952. If the deity is considered as Jagirdar or Muafidar of

such lands, it cannot be resumed as per the definition provided in Section 2(k) of the Jagirs Act of 1952. 45. On the question whether such lands could be alienated, it is

stated on behalf of the State that the transfer is not permissible as

deity is a minor in perpetuity, but being a juristic person, has a

judicial status with the power of suing or being sued under the

provisions of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 ,

immovable property of minor cannot be sold without the permission

of the Court and hence the deity lands cannot be alienated except

for legal necessity after obtaining the permission of the Court. 46. The other counsels adopted the arguments of Shri J.L.Purohit,

learned Senior counsel. 47. Since we have dealt with the common arguments raised by the

petitioners and the respondents, we have not found it necessary to

advert to the written submissions filed on behalf of the State of

Rajasthan and of each of the counsel separately. The discussion and 42 the answers given by us to the aforesaid questions, has taken into

consideration the submissions both written and oral raised by the

counsel appearing for the parties including the counsel appearing for

the State of Rajasthan. 48. In order to summarize the answers, the questions framed by

by the Court and our decisions on the questions are stated as

below:- 49. We are thankful to Mr.J.L.Purohit,Senior Advocate assisted by

Mr.Rajeev Purohit, Mr.N.R.Budania, Mr.R.S.Mehta, 45 Mr.T.S.Champawat, Mr.Paramveer Singh, Mr.Moti Singh,

Mr.C.R.Jakhar and Mr.V.N.Kalla, who are arguing for the

appellants/petitioners and Dr.P.S.Bhati, Addl.Advocate General with

Mr.Sajjan Singh, Mr.Monit Bhatnagar, Mr.O.P.Boob,

Mr.B.L.Choudhary, Mr.D.S.Rajvi, Mr.RDSS Kharlia and Mr.Rajesh

Choudhary for the respondents, in assisting the Court for deciding

the questions. 50. The file of the cases will be sent back to the concerned

Benches to decide the matter expeditiously in the light of the

decision made by us on the aforesaid questions of law. We also hope

that the Revenue Authorities ceased with the matters, will consider

and decide the matters pending before them in accordance with the

answers given by us to the questions framed and that the matters

pending before the revenue authorities and the Courts will be

decided expeditiously.