Dipak Misra, CJI (For himself and A.M. Khanwilkar, J.)

 The beauty of the Indian Constitution is that it includes ‗I‘

 ‗you‘ and ‗we‘. Such a magnificent, compassionate and

 monumental document embodies emphatic inclusiveness which

 has been further nurtured by judicial sensitivity when it has

 developed the concept of golden triangle of fundamental rights. If

 we have to apply the parameters of a fundamental right, it is an

 expression of judicial sensibility which further enhances the

 beauty of the Constitution as conceived of. In such a situation, Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by CHETAN KUMAR Date: 2018.09.27 the essentiality of the rights of women gets the real requisite
14:10:12 IST
Reason: 2. At this juncture, it is necessary to state that though there is

necessity of certainty of law, yet with the societal changes and

more so, when the rights are expanded by the Court in respect of

certain aspects having regard to the reflective perception of the

organic and living Constitution, it is not apposite to have an

inflexible stand on the foundation that the concept of certainty of

law should be allowed to prevail and govern. The progression in

law and the perceptual shift compels the present to have a

penetrating look to the past. 3. When we say so, we may not be understood that precedents

are not to be treated as such and that in the excuse of perceptual

shift, the binding nature of precedent should not be allowed to

retain its status or allowed to be diluted. When a constitutional

court faces such a challenge, namely, to be detained by a

precedent or to grow out of the same because of the normative 1 On the Subjection of Women, Chapter 1 (John Stuart Mill, 1869) 4 changes that have occurred in the other arenas of law and the

obtaining precedent does not cohesively fit into the same, the

concept of cohesive adjustment has to be in accord with the

growing legal interpretation and the analysis has to be different,

more so, where the emerging concept recognises a particular

right to be planted in the compartment of a fundamental right,

such as Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. In such a

backdrop, when the constitutionality of a provision is assailed,

the Court is compelled to have a keen scrutiny of the provision in

the context of developed and progressive interpretation. A

constitutional court cannot remain entrenched in a precedent,

for the controversy relates to the lives of human beings who

transcendentally grow. It can be announced with certitude that

transformative constitutionalism asserts itself every moment and

asserts itself to have its space. It is abhorrent to any kind of

regressive approach. The whole thing can be viewed from

another perspective. What might be acceptable at one point of

time may melt into total insignificance at another point of time.

However, it is worthy to note that the change perceived should

not be in a sphere of fancy or individual fascination, but should

be founded on the solid bedrock of change that the society has 5 perceived, the spheres in which the legislature has responded

and the rights that have been accentuated by the constitutional

courts. To explicate, despite conferring many a right on women

within the parameters of progressive jurisprudence and

expansive constitutional vision, the Court cannot conceive of

women still being treated as a property of men, and secondly,

where the delicate relationship between a husband and wife does

not remain so, it is seemingly implausible to allow a criminal

offence to enter and make a third party culpable. 4. We may presently state the nature of the lis. 5. The instant writ petition has been filed under Article 32 of

the Constitution of India challenging the validity of Section 497 IPC. A three-Judge Bench, on the first occasion, taking note of

the authorities in Yusuf Abdul Aziz v. State of Bombay2 , Sowmithri Vishnu v. Union of India and another3, V.

Revathi v. Union of India and others4 and W. Kalyani v.

State through Inspector of Police and another5 and

appreciating the submissions advanced by the learned counsel

for the petitioner, felt the necessity to have a re-look at the 2 1954 SCR 930 : AIR 1954 SC 321 3 (1985)Supp SCC 137 : AIR 1985 SC 1618 4 (1988)2 SCC 72 5 (2012) 1 SCC 358 6 constitutionality of the provision. At that juncture, the Court

noted that:- 6. At this stage, one aspect needs to be noted. At the time of

initial hearing before the three-Judge Bench, the decision in Yusuf Abdul Aziz (supra) was cited and the cited Law Report

reflected that the judgment was delivered by four learned Judges

and later on, it was noticed, as is reflectible from the Supreme

Court Reports, that the decision was rendered by a Constitution

Bench comprising of five Judges of this Court. 7. The said factual discovery will not detain us any further. In Yusuf Abdul Aziz (supra), the Court was dealing with the

controversy that had travelled to this Court while dealing with a

different fact situation. In the said case, the question arose

whether Section 497 contravened Articles 14 and 15 of the

Constitution of India. In the said case, the appellant was being

prosecuted for adultery under Section 497 IPC. As soon as the

complaint was filed, the husband applied to the High Court of

Bombay to determine the constitutional question under Article

228 of the Constitution. The Constitution Bench referring to Section 497 held thus:- As noted earlier, considering the manner in which we intend to

deal with the matter, it is not necessary to refer to a larger

Bench. 9. Sections 497 and 498 of IPC read thus:- 10. Section 198 of CrPC provides for prosecution for offences

against marriage. Section 198 is reproduced below:- (2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), no
person other than the husband of the
woman shall be deemed to be aggrieved by
any offence punishable under section 497 or section 498 of the said Code: Provided that
in the absence of the husband, some person
who had care of the woman on his behalf at
the time when such offence was com- mitted
may, with the leave of the Court, make a
complaint on his behalf. (3) When in any case falling under clause (a)
of the proviso to sub-section (1), the
complaint is sought to be made on behalf of
a person under the age of eighteen years or
of a lunatic by a person who has not been
appointed or declared by a competent
authority to be the guardian of the person of
the minor or lunatic, and the Court is
satisfied that there is a guardian so
appointed or declared, the Court shall,
before granting the application for leave,
cause notice to be given to such guardian
and give him a reasonable opportunity of
being heard. (4) The authorisation referred to in clause (b) of the proviso to sub-section (1), shall be
in writing, shall be signed or otherwise
attested by the husband, shall contain a
statement to the effect that he has been
informed of the allegations upon which the
complaint is to be founded, shall be
countersigned by his Commanding Officer,
and shall be accompanied by a certificate
signed by that Officer to the effect that leave
of absence for the purpose of making a
complaint in person cannot for the time
being be granted to the husband. (5) Any document purporting to be such an
 authorisation and complying with the
 provisions of sub-section (4), and any
 document purporting to be a certificate
 required by that sub-section shall, unless
 the contrary is proved, be presumed to be
 genuine and shall be received in evidence. (6) No Court shall take cognizance of an
 offence under section 376 of the Indian
 Penal Code (45 of 1860), where such offence
 consists of sexual intercourse by a man with
 his own wife, the wife being under 3
 [eighteen years of age], if more than one
 year has elapsed from the date of the
 commission of the offence. (7) The provisions of this section apply to
 the abetment of, or attempt to commit, an
 offence as they apply to the offence.‖ 11. On a perusal of the aforesaid provision, it is clear that the

husband of the woman has been treated to be a person aggrieved

for the offences punishable under Sections 497 and 498 of the

IPC. The rest of the proviso carves out an exception as to who is

entitled to file a complaint when the husband is absent. It may

be noted that the offence is non-cognizable. 12. The three-Judge Bench, while referring the matter, had

briefly dwelled upon the impact of the provision. To appreciate

the constitutional validity, first, we shall deal with the earlier

pronouncements and the principles enunciated therein and how

we can have a different perspective of such provisions. We have 15 already referred to what has been stated in Yusuf Abdul Aziz (supra). 13. In Sowmithri Vishnu (supra), a petition preferred under Article 32 of the Constitution challenged the validity of Section

497 IPC. We do not intend to advert to the factual matrix. It was

contended before the three-Judge Bench that Section 497 confers

upon the husband the right to prosecute the adulterer but it does

not confer any right upon the wife to prosecute the woman with

whom her husband has committed adultery; that Section 497 does not confer any right on the wife to prosecute the husband

who has committed adultery with another woman; and that Section 497 does not take in cases where the husband has

sexual relations with an unmarried woman with the result that

husbands have a free licence under the law to have extramarital

relationships with unmarried women. That apart, the submission

was advanced that Section 497 is a flagrant instance of ‗gender

discrimination‘, ‗legislative despotism‘ and ‗male chauvinism‘. At

first blush, it may appear as if it is a beneficial legislation

intended to serve the interests of women but, on closer

examination, it would be found that the provision contained in

the section is a kind of ―romantic paternalism‖ which stems from 16 the assumption that women, like chattels, are the property of

men. 14. The Court referred to the submissions and held thus:- 15. The Court further held :- 16. In V. Revathi v. Union of India and others9, the Court

analysed the design of the provision and ruled:- 17. In W. Kalyani v. State Thro’ Inspector of Police and

another10, the Court held:- 18. At this juncture, we think it seemly to state that we are only

going to deal with the constitutional validity of Section 497 IPC

and Section 198 CrPC. The learned counsel for the petitioner

submits that the provision by its very nature is arbitrary and

invites the frown of Article 14 of the Constitution. In Shayara

Bano v. Union of India and others11, the majority speaking

through Nariman, J., ruled thus :- 10 61. It is at this point that it is necessary to
see whether a fundamental right has been
violated by the 1937 Act insofar as it seeks
to enforce Triple Talaq as a rule of law in the
Courts in India. 62. Article 14 of the Constitution of India is
a facet of equality of status and opportunity
spoken of in the Preamble to the
Constitution. The Article naturally divides
itself into two parts- (1) equality before the
law, and (2) the equal protection of the law.
Judgments of this Court have referred to the
fact that the equality before law concept has
been derived from the law in the U.K., and
the equal protection of the laws has been
borrowed from the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States of
America. In a revealing judgment, Subba
Rao, J., dissenting, in State of U.P. v. Deoman Upadhyaya, (1961) 1 SCR 14 at 34
further went on to state that whereas
equality before law is a negative concept, the
equal protection of the law has positive
content. The early judgments of this Court
referred to the ―discrimination‖ aspect of Article 14 , and evolved a rule by which
subjects could be classified. If 347 the 23 classification was ―intelligible‖ having regard
to the object sought to be achieved, it would
pass muster under Article 14‘s anti- discrimination aspect. Again, Subba Rao, J.,
dissenting, in Lachhman Das v. State of
Punjab , (1963) 2 SCR 353 at 395, warned
that: 63. In the pre-1974 era, the judgments of
this Court did refer to the ―rule of law‖ or
―positive‖ aspect of Article 14 , the
concomitant of which is that if an action is
found to be arbitrary and, therefore,
unreasonable, it would negate the equal
protection of the law contained in Article 14 and would be struck down on this ground. In S.G. Jaisinghani v. Union of India , (1967)
2 SCR 703, this Court held: Raj Narain13, E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu14, Maneka 12 (1968) 1 SCR 349 13 (1975) Supp SCC 1 25 Gandhi v. Union of India15, A.L. Kalra v. Project and Equipment Corporation of India Ltd.16, Ajay Hasia v. Khalid

Mujib Sehravardi17 , K.R. Lakshmanan v. State of T.N.18 and

two other Constitution Bench judgments in Mithu v. State of

Punjab19 and Sunil Batra v. Delhi Administration20 and,

eventually, came to hold thus:- However, the provision has made it a restricted one as a

consequence of which a man, in certain situations, becomes

criminally liable for having committed adultery while, in other

situations, he cannot be branded as a person who has committed

adultery so as to invite the culpability of Section 497 IPC. Section 198 CrPC deals with a ―person aggrieved‖. Sub-section

(2) of Section 198 treats the husband of the woman as deemed to

be aggrieved by an offence committed under Section 497 IPC and

in the absence of husband, some person who had care of the

woman on his behalf at the time when such offence was

committed with the leave of the court. It does not consider the

wife of the adulterer as an aggrieved person. The offence and the

deeming definition of an aggrieved person, as we find, is

absolutely and manifestly arbitrary as it does not even appear to

be rational and it can be stated with emphasis that it confers a

licence on the husband to deal with the wife as he likes which is

extremely excessive and disproportionate. We are constrained to 28 think so, as it does not treat a woman as an abettor but protects

a woman and simultaneously, it does not enable the wife to file

any criminal prosecution against the husband. Indubitably, she

can take civil action but the husband is also entitled to take civil

action. However, that does not save the provision as being

manifestly arbitrary. That is one aspect of the matter. If the

entire provision is scanned being Argus-eyed, we notice that on

the one hand, it protects a woman and on the other, it does not

protect the other woman. The rationale of the provision suffers

from the absence of logicality of approach and, therefore, we have

no hesitation in saying that it suffers from the vice of Article 14 of the Constitution being manifestly arbitrary. 24. Presently, we shall address the issue against the backdrop

of Article 21 of the Constitution. For the said purpose, it is

necessary to devote some space with regard to the dignity of

women and the concept of gender equality. 25. In Arun Kumar Agrawal and another v. National

Insurance Company Limited and others21, the issue related to

the criteria for determination of compensation payable to the

dependents of a woman who died in road accident. She did not 21 (2010) 9 SCC 218 29 have a regular income. Singhvi, J. rejected the stand relating to

determination of compensation by comparing a house wife to that

of a house keeper or a servant or an employee who works for a

fixed period. The learned Judge thought it unjust, unfair and

inappropriate. In that context, the learned Judge stated:- 26. Ganguly, J., in his concurring opinion, referred to the

Australian Family Property Law and opined that the said law 30 had adopted a very gender sensitive approach. The learned

Judge reproduced:- 27. In State of Madhya Pradesh v. Madanlal22 , the Court

held:- 28. In Pawan Kumar v. State of Himachal Pradesh23 , the

Court, dealing with the concept of equality and dignity of a

woman, observed:- 22 No one can compel a woman to love. She
has the absolute right to reject. 48. In a civilized society male chauvinism
has no room. The Constitution of India
confers the affirmative rights on women and
the said rights are perceptible from Article
15 of the Constitution. When the right is
conferred under the Constitution, it has to
be understood that there is no
condescendation. A man should not put his
ego or, for that matter, masculinity on a
pedestal and abandon the concept of civility.
Egoism must succumb to law. Equality has 32 to be regarded as the summum bonum of
 the constitutional principle in this context.‖ 29. Lord Keith in R v. R24 declared:- 30. Lord Denning25 states:- 31. In Shamima Farooqui v. Shahid Khan26 , the Court

ruled:- 32. In Voluntary Health Association of Punjab v. Union of

India27 , one of us (Dipak Misra, J.), in his concurring opinion,

stated that women have to be regarded as equal partners in the

lives of men and it has to be borne in mind that they have equal

role in the society, that is, in thinking, participating and

leadership. The issue related to female foeticide and it was

stated thus:- 113-14, paras 3 & 4)

 ―3. Social thinkers, philosophers,
 dramatists, poets and writers have
 eulogised the female species of the human
 race and have always used beautiful
 epithets to describe her temperament and
 personality and have not deviated from that
 path even while speaking of her odd
 behaviour, at times. Even in sarcasm, they
 have not crossed the literary limit and have
 adhered to a particular standard of nobility
 of language. Even when a member of her
 own species, Madame De Stael, remarked ‗I
 am glad that I am not a man; for then I
 should have to marry a woman‘, there was
 wit in it. When Shakespeare wrote, ‗Age
 cannot wither her; nor custom stale, her
 infinite variety‘, there again was wit. Notwithstanding that these writers have
 cried hoarse for respect for ‗woman‘,
 notwithstanding that Schiller said ‗Honour
 women! They entwine and weave heavenly
 roses in our earthly life‘ and
 notwithstanding that the Mahabharata
 mentioned her as the source of salvation,
 crime against ‗woman‘ continues to rise and
 has, today undoubtedly, risen to alarming
 proportions. 4. It is unfortunate that in an age where
 people are described as civilised, crime
 against „female‟ is committed even when the
 child is in the womb as the „female‟ foetus is
 often destroyed to prevent the birth of a
 female child. If that child comes into
 existence, she starts her life as a daughter,
 then becomes a wife and in due course, a
 mother. She rocks the cradle to rear up her 28 (1997) 7 SCC 110 35 infant, bestows all her love on the child and
 as the child grows in age, she gives to the
 child all that she has in her own personality.
 She shapes the destiny and character of the
 child. To be cruel to such a creature is
 unthinkable. To torment a wife can only be
 described as the most hated and derisive act
 of a human being.‖
 [Emphasis supplied]

 And again:- Liberty has a broader meaning of which privacy
is a subset. All liberties may not be exercised in
privacy. Yet others can be fulfilled only within a 41 private space. Privacy enables the individual to
retain the autonomy of the body and mind. The
autonomy of the individual is the ability to make
decisions on vital matters of concern to life.
Privacy has not been couched as an independent
fundamental right. But that does not detract
from the constitutional protection afforded to it,
once the true nature of privacy and its
relationship with those fundamental rights
which are expressly protected is understood.
Privacy lies across the spectrum of protected
freedoms. The guarantee of equality is a
guarantee against arbitrary state action. It
prevents the state from discriminating between
individuals. The destruction by the state of a
sanctified personal space whether of the body or
of the mind is violative of the guarantee against
arbitrary state action. Privacy of the body entitles
an individual to the integrity of the physical
aspects of personhood. The intersection between
one's mental integrity and privacy entitles the
individual to freedom of thought, the freedom to
believe in what is right, and the freedom of self- ―525. But most important of all is the cardinal
value of fraternity which assures the dignity of
the individual.359 The dignity of the individual
encompasses the right of the individual to
develop to the full extent of his potential. And
this development can only be if an individual has
autonomy over fundamental personal choices
and control over dissemination of personal
information which may be infringed through an
unauthorized use of such information. It is clear
that Article 21 , more than any of the other
Articles in the fundamental rights chapter,
reflects each of these constitutional values in
full, and is to be read in consonance with these
values and with the international covenants that 42 we have referred to. In the ultimate analysis, the
 fundamental right of privacy, which has so many
 developing facets, can only be developed on a
 case to case basis. Depending upon the
 particular facet that is relied upon, either Article
 21 by itself or in conjunction with other
 fundamental rights would get attracted.‖ 38. In this context, we may profitably refer to National Legal

Services Authority v. Union of India and others33 wherein A.K.

Sikri, J., in his concurring opinion, emphasizing on the concept

of dignity, has opined:- 39. Very recently, in Common Cause (A Registered Society) v.

Union of India and another34, one of us has stated:- 40. In the said judgment , A.K. Sikri, J. reproduced a passage

from Professor Upendra Baxi‘s lecture in First Justice H.R.

Khanna Memorial Lecture which reads as follows:- 45 41. From the aforesaid analysis, it is discernible that the Court,

with the passage of time, has recognized the conceptual equality

of woman and the essential dignity which a woman is entitled to

have. There can be no curtailment of the same. But, Section

497 IPC effectively does the same by creating invidious

distinctions based on gender stereotypes which creates a dent in

the individual dignity of women. Besides, the emphasis on the

element of connivance or consent of the husband tantamounts to

subordination of women. Therefore, we have no hesitation in

holding that the same offends Article 21 of the Constitution. 42. Another aspect needs to be addressed. The question we

intend to pose is whether adultery should be treated as a

criminal offence. Even assuming that the new definition of 46 adultery encapsules within its scope sexual intercourse with an

unmarried woman or a widow, adultery is basically associated

with the institution of marriage. There is no denial of the fact

that marriage is treated as a social institution and regard being

had to various aspects that social history has witnessed in this

country, the Parliament has always made efforts to maintain the

rights of women. For instance, Section 498-A IPC deals with

husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to

cruelty. The Parliament has also brought in the Protection of

Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 . This enactment

protects women. It also enters into the matrimonial sphere. The

offences under the provisions of the said enactment are different

from the provision that has been conceived of under Section 497 IPC or, for that matter, concerning bringing of adultery within the

net of a criminal offence. There can be no shadow of doubt that

adultery can be a ground for any kind of civil wrong including

dissolution of marriage. But the pivotal question is whether it

should be treated as a criminal offence. When we say so, it is not

to be understood that there can be any kind of social licence that

destroys the matrimonial home. It is an ideal condition when the

wife and husband maintain their loyalty. We are not 47 commenting on any kind of ideal situation but, in fact, focusing

on whether the act of adultery should be treated as a criminal

offence. In this context, we are reminded of what Edmund

Burke, a famous thinker, had said, ―a good legislation should be

fit and equitable so that it can have a right to command

obedience‖. Burke would like to put it in two compartments,

namely, ‗equity‘ and ‗utility‘. If the principle of Burke is properly

understood, it conveys that laws and legislations are necessary to

serve and promote a good life. 43. Dealing with the concept of crime, it has been stated in

―Principles of Criminal Liability‖35 thus :- 44. In Kenny‟s Outlines of Criminal Law, 19th Edn., 1966 by

J.W. Cecil Turner, it has been stated that:- 45. Stephen defines a ―crime‖ thus:- 46. Blackstone, while discussing the general nature of crime,

has defined crime thus:- 47. In this regard, we may reproduce a couple of

paragraphs from Central Inland Water Transport 50 Corporation Limited and another v. Brojo Nath

Ganguly36 . They read as under:- 48. Reproducing the same, the Court in Common Cause (A

Registered Society ) (supra), has observed :- 49. We have referred to the aforesaid theories and authorities to

understand whether adultery that enters into the matrimonial

realm should be treated as a criminal offence. There can be

many a situation and we do not intend to get into the same.

Suffice it to say, it is different from an offence committed under

Section 498-A or any violation of the Protection of Women from

Domestic Violence Act, 2005 or, for that matter, the protection

conceived of under Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 52 or Sections 306 or 304B or 494 IPC . These offences are meant to

sub-serve various other purposes relating to a matrimonial

relationship and extinction of life of a married woman during

subsistence of marriage. Treating adultery an offence, we are

disposed to think, would tantamount to the State entering into a

real private realm. Under the existing provision, the husband is

treated as an aggrieved person and the wife is ignored as a

victim. Presently, the provision is reflective of a tripartite

labyrinth. A situation may be conceived of where equality of

status and the right to file a case may be conferred on the wife.

In either situation, the whole scenario is extremely private. It

stands in contradistinction to the demand for dowry, domestic

violence, sending someone to jail for non-grant of maintenance or

filing a complaint for second marriage. Adultery stands on a

different footing from the aforesaid offences. We are absolutely

conscious that the Parliament has the law making power. We

make it very clear that we are not making law or legislating but

only stating that a particular act, i.e., adultery does not fit into

the concept of a crime. We may repeat at the cost of repetition

that if it is treated as a crime, there would be immense intrusion

into the extreme privacy of the matrimonial sphere. It is better to 53 be left as a ground for divorce. For any other purpose as the

Parliament has perceived or may, at any time, perceive, to treat it

as a criminal offence will offend the two facets of Article 21 of the

Constitution, namely, dignity of husband and wife, as the case

may be, and the privacy attached to a relationship between the

two. Let it be clearly stated, by no stretch of imagination, one

can say, that Section 498-A or any other provision, as mentioned

hereinbefore, also enters into the private realm of matrimonial

relationship. In case of the said offences, there is no third party

involved. It is the husband and his relatives. There has been

correct imposition by law not to demand dowry or to treat women

with cruelty so as to compel her to commit suicide. The said

activities deserve to be punished and the law has rightly provided

so. 50. In this regard, we may also note how the extramarital

relationship cannot be treated as an act for commission of an

offence under Section 306 IPC. In Pinakin Mahipatray Rawal

v. State of Gujarat37 , the Court has held :- marital relationship, which if proved, could be
 illegal and immoral, nothing has been brought
 out by the prosecution to show that the accused
 had provoked, incited or induced the wife to
 commit suicide.”
 [Emphasis added] 51. In the context of Section 498-A, the Court, in Ghusabhai

Raisangbhai Chorasiya v. State of Gujarat38 , has opined that

even if the illicit relationship is proven, unless some other

acceptable evidence is brought on record to establish such high

degree of mental cruelty, the Explanation (a) to Section 498-A IPC, which includes cruelty to drive the woman to commit

suicide, would not be attracted. The relevant passage from the

said authority is extracted below :- A IPC which includes cruelty to drive a woman
 to commit suicide, would not be attracted.‖
 [Emphasis added] 52. The purpose of referring to the aforesaid authorities is to

highlight how adultery has not been granted separate exclusive

space in the context of Sections 306 and 498-A IPC. 53. In case of adultery, the law expects the parties to remain

loyal and maintain fidelity throughout and also makes the

adulterer the culprit. This expectation by law is a command

which gets into the core of privacy. That apart, it is a

discriminatory command and also a socio-moral one. Two

individuals may part on the said ground but to attach criminality

to the same is inapposite. 54. We may also usefully note here that adultery as a crime is

no more prevalent in People‘s Republic of China, Japan, 56 Australia, Brazil and many western European countries. The

diversity of culture in those countries can be judicially taken note

of. Non-criminalisation of adultery, apart from what we have

stated hereinabove, can be proved from certain other facets.

When the parties to a marriage lose their moral commitment of

the relationship, it creates a dent in the marriage and it will

depend upon the parties how they deal with the situation. Some

may exonerate and live together and some may seek divorce. It is

absolutely a matter of privacy at its pinnacle. The theories of

punishment, whether deterrent or reformative, would not save

the situation. A punishment is unlikely to establish

commitment, if punishment is meted out to either of them or a

third party. Adultery, in certain situations, may not be the cause

of an unhappy marriage. It can be the result. It is difficult to

conceive of such situations in absolute terms. The issue that

requires to be determined is whether the said ‗act‘ should be

made a criminal offence especially when on certain occasions, it

can be the cause and in certain situations, it can be the result. If

the act is treated as an offence and punishment is provided, it

would tantamount to punishing people who are unhappy in

marital relationships and any law that would make adultery a 57 crime would have to punish indiscriminately both the persons

whose marriages have been broken down as well as those

persons whose marriages are not. A law punishing adultery as a

crime cannot make distinction between these two types of

marriages. It is bound to become a law which would fall within

the sphere of manifest arbitrariness. 55. In this regard, another aspect deserves to be noted. The

jurisprudence in England, which to a large extent, is adopted by

this country has never regarded adultery as a crime except for a

period of ten years in the reign of Puritanical Oliver Cromwell. As

we see the international perspective, most of the countries have

abolished adultery as a crime. We have already ascribed when

such an act is treated as a crime and how it faces the frown of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. Thinking of adultery from

the point of view of criminality would be a retrograde step. This

Court has travelled on the path of transformative

constitutionalism and, therefore, it is absolutely inappropriate to

sit in a time machine to a different era where the machine moves

on the path of regression. Hence, to treat adultery as a crime

would be unwarranted in law. 56. As we have held that Section 497 IPC is unconstitutional

and adultery should not be treated as an offence, it is

appropriate to declare Section 198 CrPC which deals with the

procedure for filing a complaint in relation to the offence of

adultery as unconstitutional. When the substantive provision

goes, the procedural provision has to pave the same path. 57. In view of the foregoing analysis, the decisions in Sowmithri Vishnu (supra) and V. Revathi (supra) stand

overruled and any other judgment following precedents also

stands overruled. 58. Consequently, the writ petition is allowed to the extent

indicated hereinbefore. .………………………….CJI. (Dipak Misra)

 .…………………………….J.
 (A.M. Khanwilkar)
New Delhi; September 27, 2018
 REPORTABLE

 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

 CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION

 WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO. 194 OF 2017

JOSEPH SHINE … PETITIONER

 VERSUS

UNION OF INDIA … RESPONDENT

 JUDGMENT

R.F. Nariman, J. (Concurring) 1. What is before us in this writ petition is the constitutional

validity of an archaic provision of the Indian Penal Code (― IPC ‖),

namely, Section 497, which makes adultery a crime. Section

497 appears in Chapter XX of the IPC , which deals with

offences relating to marriage. Section 497 reads as follows:- Leviticus 20:10 (King James Version). 1 Corinthians 6:9-10 (King James Version). 4 Matthew 5:27-28 (King James Version). John, 8:7 (English Standard Version). 4. In this country as well, in the Manusmriti, Chapters 4.1346

 and 8.3527 prescribes punishment for those who are addicted

 to intercourse with wives of other men by punishments which

 cause terror, followed by banishment. The Dharmasutras speak

 with different voices. In the Apastamba Dharmasutra, adultery

 is punishable as a crime, the punishment depending upon the

 class or caste of the man and the woman.8 However, in the

 Gautama Dharmasutra, if a man commits adultery, he should

 observe a life of chastity for two years; and if he does so with

 the wife of a vedic scholar, for three years.9 5. In Islam, in An-Nur, namely, Chapter 24 of the Qur‘an,

 Verses 2 and 6 to 9 read as follows: 6. In sixth-century Anglo-Saxon England, the law created

 ―elaborate tables of composition‖ which the offended husband

 could accept in lieu of blood vengeance. These tables were

 schemes for payment of compensation depending upon the 11 Id. degree of harm caused to the cuckolded husband. However, as

Christianity spread in England, adultery became morally wrong

and therefore, a sin, as well as a wrong against the husband.

Post 1066, the Normans who took over, viewed adultery not as

a crime against the State, but rather as an ecclesiastical

offence dealt with by the Church. The common law of England

prescribed an action in tort for loss of consortium based on the

property interest a husband had in his wife. Thus, the action for

conversation, which is compensation or damages, usually

represented a first step in obtaining divorce in medieval

England. In fact, adultery was the only ground for divorce in

seventeenth-century England, which had to be granted only by

Parliament. Interestingly enough, it was only after King Charles

I was beheaded in 1649, that adultery became a capital offence

in Cromwell‘s Puritanical England in the year 1650, which was

nullified as soon as King Charles II came back in what was

known as the ‗restoration of the monarchy‘. It will be seen

therefore, that in England, except for an eleven-year period

when England was ruled by the Puritans, adultery was never

considered to be a criminal offence. Adultery was only a tort for 7 which damages were payable to the husband, given his

 proprietary interest in his wife.12 This tort is adverted to by a

 1904 judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States in

 Charles A. Tinker v. Frederick L. Colwell, 193 US 473

 (1904), as follows: Tinker v. Colwell, 193 U.S. 473, 481 (1904). 8 idea that the act of the defendant is a violation of the
 marital rights of the husband in the person of his
 wife, and so the act of the defendant is an injury to
 the person and also to the property rights of the
 husband.‖14

 To similar effect is the judgment in Pritchard v. Pritchard and

 Sims , [1966] 3 All E.R. 601, which reconfirmed the origins of

 adultery or criminal conversation as under: 7. In England, Section LIX of the Divorce and Matrimonial

 Causes Act, 1857 abolished the common law action for criminal

 conversation while retaining, by Section XXXIII of the same Act,

 the power to award the husband damages for adultery

 committed by the wife. This position continued right till 1923,

 when the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1923 made adultery a

 ground for divorce available to both spouses instead of only the

 husband. The right of a husband to claim damages for adultery

 was abolished very recently by the Law Reforms

 (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1970.16 8. In the United States, however, Puritans who went to make

 a living in the American colonies, carried with them Cromwell‘s

 criminal law, thereby making adultery a capital offence.

 Strangely enough, this still continues in some of the States in

 the United States. The American Law Institute, however, has

 dropped the crime of adultery from its Model Penal Code as

 adultery statutes are in general vague, archaic, and sexist.

 None of the old reasons in support of such statutes, namely, 16 Section 4, Law Reforms (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1970. 10 the controlling of disease, the preventing of illegitimacy, and

 preserving the traditional family continue to exist as of today. It

 was also found that criminal adultery statutes were rarely

 enforced in the United States and were, therefore, referred to

 as ―dead letter statutes‖. This, plus the potential abuses from

 such statutes continuing on the statute book, such as extortion,

 blackmail, coercion etc. were stated to be reasons for removing

 adultery as a crime in the Model Penal Code.17 9. When we come to India, Lord Macaulay, in his draft Penal

 Code, which was submitted to the Law Commissioners, refused

 to make adultery a penal offence. He reasoned as follows: 10. However, when the Court Commissioners reviewed the

 Penal Code, they felt that it was important that adultery be

 made an offence. The reasons for so doing are set out as

 follows: Regulations allow of a conviction upon strong
presumption arising from circumstantial evidence.
This difficulty, if it has had the effect supposed, will
be removed, should the Code be adopted. Colonel
Sleeman‘s representation of the actual
consequences of the present system, which, while it
recognizes the offence, renders it, in the opinion of
the Natives, almost impossible to bring an offender
to justice, it will be observed, coincides with and
confirms practically Mr. Livingstone‘s view of the
result to be expected when the law refuses to
punish this offence. The injured party will do it for
himself; great crimes, assassinations, poisonings,
will be the consequence. The law here does not
refuse, but it fails to punish the offence, says
Colonel Sleeman, and poisonings are the
consequence. 354. Colonel Sleeman thinks that the
Commissioners have wrongly assumed that it is the
lenity of the existing law that it is complained of by
the Natives, and believes that they would be
satisfied with a less punishment for the offence than
the present law allows; viz. imprisonment for seven
years, if it were certain to follow the offender. He
proposes that the punishment of a man ―convicted
of seducing the wife of another‖ shall be
imprisonment which may extend to seven years, or
a fine payable to the husband or both imprisonment
and fine. The punishment of a married woman
―convicted of adultery‖ he would limit to
imprisonment for two years. We are not aware
whether or not he intends the difference in the terms
used to be significant of a difference in the nature of
the proof against the man and the woman
respectively. 355. While we think that the offence of adultery
ought not to be omitted from the Code, we would
limit its cognizance to adultery committed with a 15 married woman, and considering that there is much
 weight in the last remark in Note Q, regarding the
 condition of a women of this country, in deference to
 it we would render the male offender alone liable to
 punishment. We would, however, put the parties
 accused of adultery on trial together, and empower
 the Court, in the event of their conviction, to
 pronounce a decree of divorce against the guilty
 woman, if the husband sues for it, at the same time
 that her paramour is sentenced to punishment by
 imprisonment or fine. By Mr. Livingstone‘s Code, the
 woman forfeits her ―matrimonial gains‖, but is not
 liable to other punishment. 356. We would adopt Colonel Sleeman‘s
 suggestion as to the punishment of the male
 offender, limiting it to imprisonment not exceeding
 five years, instead of seven years allowed at
 present, and sanctioning the imposition of a fine
 payable to the husband as an alternative, or in
 addition. 357. The punishment prescribed by the Code of
 Louisiana is imprisonment not more than six
 months, or fine not exceeding 2,000 dollars, or both.
 By the French Code, the maximum term of
 imprisonment is two years, with fine in addition,
 which may amount to 2,000 francs. 358. If the offence of adultery is admitted into the
 Penal Code, there should be a provision in the Code
 of Procedure to restrict the right of prosecuting to
 the injured husband, agreeably to Section 2 , Act II of
 1845.‖19
 (emphasis supplied) 19 COPIES OF THE SPECIAL REPORTS OF THE INDIAN LAW COMMISSIONERS 76 (James C. Melvill, East India
 House, 1847). 16 These are some of the reasons that led to the enactment of Section 497 , IPC. 11. At this stage, it is important to note that by Section 199 of

the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, it was only the husband

who was to be deemed to be aggrieved by an offence

punishable under Section 497 , IPC. Thus, Section 199 stated: 12. Even when this Code was replaced by the Code of

Criminal Procedure (― CrPC ‖), 1973, Section 198 of the CrPC,

1973 continued the same provision with a proviso that in the

absence of the husband, some person who had care of the

woman on his behalf at the time when such offence was

committed may, with the leave of the Court, make a complaint

on his behalf. The said Section reads as follows: 17 ―198. Prosecution for offences against
marriage.— (1) No Court shall take cognizance of
an offence punishable under Chapter XX of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) except upon a
complaint made by some person aggrieved by the
offence: State, 1952 ILR Bom 449, a Division Bench of the Bombay

 High Court, consisting of M.C. Chagla, C.J. and P.B.

 Gajendragadkar, J. held that Section 497 of the IPC did not

 contravene Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. However, in

 an instructive passage, the learned Chief Justice stated: This is an instance of Homer nodding. Apart from a limited ratio

based upon a limited argument, the judgment applies a

constitutional provision which is obviously inapplicable as Article 15(3) , which states that, ―nothing in this article shall

prevent the State from making a special provision for women‖,

would refer to the ―State‖ as either Parliament or the State

Legislatures or the Executive Government of the Centre or the

States, set up under the Constitution after it has come into

force. Section 497 is, in constitutional language, an ―existing

law‖ which continues, by virtue of Article 372(1) , to apply, and 21 could not, therefore, be said to be a law made by the ―State‖,

meaning any of the entities referred to above . 13. We have noticed a judgment of the Division Bench of the

Bombay High Court in Dattatraya Motiram More v. State of

Bombay , AIR 1953 Bom 311, in which the Division Bench

turned down a submission that Article 15(3) is confined to laws

made after the Constitution of India comes into force and would

also apply to existing law thus: 15(3) does not merely deal with laws but deals
 generally with any special provision for women and
 children, and therefore it was not necessary in Art.
 15(3) to mention both existing laws and laws to be
 made in future. But the exception made to Art. 15(1) by Art. 15(3) is an exception which applies both to
 existing laws and to laws which the State may make
 in future.‖ 14. We are of the view that this paragraph does not represent

the law correctly. In fact, Article 19(2)-(6) clearly refers to

―existing law‖ as being separate from ―the State making any 23 law‖, indicating that the State making any law would be laws

made after the Constitution comes into force as opposed to

―existing law‖, which are pre-constitutional laws enacted before

the Constitution came into force, as is clear from the definition

of ―existing law‖ contained in Article 366(10) , which reads as

under: 15. Article 15(3) refers to the State making laws which

therefore, obviously cannot include existing law. Article 15(3) is

in this respect similar to Article 16(4) , which reads as follows: The vital difference in language between Articles 15(3) and 16(4) on the one hand, and Article 19(2)-(6) on the other, must

thus be given effect. 16. Coming back to Yusuf Abdul Aziz (supra), the difference

in language between Article 15(3) and Article 19(2)-(6) was not

noticed. The limited ratio of this judgment merely refers to the

last sentence in Section 497 which it upholds. Its ratio does not

extend to upholding the entirety of the provision or referring to

any of the arguments made before us for striking down the

provision as a whole. 17. We then come to Sowmithri Vishnu v. Union of India

and Anr. , (1985) Supp SCC 137, (―Sowmithri Vishnu‖). In this

case, an Article 32 petition challenged the constitutional validity

of Section 497 of the Penal Code on three grounds which are

set out in paragraph 6 of the judgment. Significantly, the 25 learned counsel in that case argued that Section 497 is a

flagrant instance of ‗gender discrimination‘, ‗legislative

despotism‘, and ‗male chauvinism‘. This Court repelled these

arguments stating that they had a strong emotive appeal but no

valid legal basis to rest upon. The first argument, namely, an

argument of discrimination was repelled by stating that the

ambit of the offence of adultery should make the woman

punishable as well. This was repelled by saying that such

arguments go to the policy of the law and not its

constitutionality. This was on the basis that it is commonly

accepted that it is the man who is the seducer and not the

woman. Even in 1985, the Court accepted that this archaic

position may have undergone some change over the years, but

it is for the legislature to consider whether Section 497 be

amended appropriately so as to take note of the transformation

that society has undergone. The Court then referred to the 42nd Law Commission Report,

1971, which recommended the retention of Section 497, with

the modification that, even the wife, who has sexual relations 26 with a person other than her husband, should be made

punishable for adultery. The dissenting note of Mrs. Anna

Chandi was also taken note of, where the dissenter stated that

this is the right time to consider the question whether the

offence of adultery, as envisaged in Section 497, is in tune with

our present-day notions of women‘s status in marriage.

The second ground was repelled stating that a woman is the

victim of the crime, and as the offence of adultery is considered

as an offence against the sanctity of the matrimonial home, only

those men who defile that sanctity are brought within the net of

the law. Therefore, it is of no moment that Section 497 does not

confer any right on the wife to prosecute the husband who has

committed adultery with another woman. The third ground, namely, that Section 497 is underinclusive

inasmuch as a husband who has sexual relations with an

unmarried woman is not within the net of the law, was repelled

stating that an unfaithful husband may invite a civil action by the

wife for separation, and that the Legislature is entitled to deal

with the evil where it is felt and seen most. 27 A challenge on the ground of Article 21 was also repelled,

stating that the fact that a provision for hearing the wife is not

contained in Section 497 cannot render that Section

unconstitutional. This Court then referred to the judgment in Yusuf Abdul Aziz (supra) and stated that since it was a 1954

decision, and 30 years had passed since then, this Court was

examining the position afresh. The Court ended with the

sermon, ―stability of marriages is not an ideal to be scorned.‖ 18. In V. Revathi v. Union of India and Ors. , (1988) 2 SCC

72, this Court, after referring to Sowmithri Vishnu (supra),

repelled a similar challenge to Section 198 of the CrPC, 1973. After referring to Sowmithri Vishnu (supra), since Section 497 ,

IPC and Section 198 , CrPC go hand in hand and constitute a

‗legislative packet‘ to deal with the offence of adultery

committed by an outsider, the challenge to the said Section

failed. 19. International trends worldwide also indicate that very few

nations continue to treat adultery as a crime, though most 28 nations retain adultery for the purposes of divorce laws. Thus,

 adultery continues to be a criminal offence in Afghanistan,

 Bangladesh, Indonesia, Iran, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan,

 Philippines, United Arab Emirates, some states of the United

 States of America, Algeria, Democratic Republic of Congo,

 Egypt, Morocco, and some parts of Nigeria. On the other hand, a number of jurisdictions have done away

 with adultery as a crime. The People‘s Republic of China,

 Japan, Brazil, New Zealand, Australia, Scotland, the

 Netherlands, Denmark, France, Germany, Austria, the Republic

 of Ireland, Barbados, Bermuda, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago,

 Seychelles etc. are some of the jurisdictions in which it has

 been done away with. In South Korea21 and Guatemala,22

 provisions similar to Section 497 have been struck down by the

 constitutional courts of those nations. 21 2009 Hun-Ba 17, (26.02.2015) [Constitutional Court of South Korea]. 22 Expediente 936-95, (07.03.1996), República de Guatemala Corte de Constitucionalidad [Constitutional
 Court of Guatemala]. 20. The Supreme Court of Namibia, in an instructive

 judgment,23 went into whether the criminal offence of adultery

 would protect marriages and reduce the incidence of adultery. It

 said: readiness, founded in morals, of the
 parties to the marriage to create and
 to maintain it.‘
If the parties to the marriage have lost
that moral commitment, the marriage will
fail, and punishment meted out to a third
party is unlikely to change that. (b) Grave doubts are expressed by many
about the deterrent effect of the action. In most other countries it was concluded
that the action (no longer) has any
deterrent effect and I have no reason to
think that the position in our society is all
that different. Perhaps one reason is that
adultery occurs in different
circumstances. Every so often it
happens without any premeditation,
when deterrence hardly plays a role. At
the other end of the scale, the adultery is
sometimes carefully planned and the
participants are confident that it will not
be discovered. Moreover, romantic
involvement between one of the spouses
and a third party can be as devastating
to the marital relationship as (or even
more so than) sexual intercourse. (c) If deterrence is the main purpose,
one would have thought that this could
better be achieved by retaining the
imposition of criminal sanctions or by the
grant of an interdict in favour of the
innocent spouse against both the guilty
spouse and the third party to prevent
future acts of adultery. But, as we know,
the crime of adultery had become
abrogated through disuse exactly 100 31 years ago while an interdict against
adultery has never been granted by our
courts (see, for example, Wassenaar v
Jameson, supra at 352H – 353H). Some
of the reasons given in Wassenaar as to
why an interdict would not be
appropriate are quite enlightening and
would apply equally to the
appropriateness of a claim for damages. These include, firstly, that an interdict
against the guilty spouse is not possible
because he or she commits no delict. Secondly, that as against a third party —
 ‗it interferes with, and restricts the
 rights and freedom that the third
 party ordinarily has of using and
 disposing of his body as he
 chooses; . . . it also affects the
 relationship of the third party with
 the claimant's spouse, who is and
 cannot be a party to the interdict,
 and therefore indirectly interferes
 with, and restricts her rights and
 freedom of, using and disposing of
 her body as she chooses‘. [At
 353E.] (d) In addition the deterrence argument
seems to depart from the assumption
that adultery is the cause of the
breakdown of a marriage, while it is now
widely recognised that causes for the
breakdown in marriages are far more
complex. Quite frequently adultery is
found to be the result and not the cause
of an unhappy marital relationship. Conversely stated, a marriage in which
the spouses are living in harmony is 32 hardly likely to be broken up by a third
 party.‘‖24 21. Coming back to Section 497, it is clear that in order to

 constitute the offence of adultery, the following must be

 established: 22. What is apparent on a cursory reading of these

 ingredients is that a married man, who has sexual intercourse 24 Id., 17-19. 33 with an unmarried woman or a widow, does not commit the

offence of adultery. Also, if a man has sexual intercourse with a

married woman with the consent or connivance of her husband,

he does not commit the offence of adultery. The consent of the

woman committing adultery is material only for showing that the

offence is not another offence, namely, rape. 23. The background in which this provision was enacted now

needs to be stated. In 1860, when the Penal Code was

enacted, the vast majority of the population in this country,

namely, Hindus, had no law of divorce as marriage was

considered to be a sacrament. Equally, a Hindu man could

marry any number of women until 1955. It is, therefore, not far

to see as to why a married man having sexual intercourse with

an unmarried woman was not the subject matter of the offence.

Since adultery did not exist as a ground in divorce law, there

being no divorce law, and since a man could marry any number

of wives among Hindus, it was clear that there was no sense in

punishing a married man in having sex with an unmarried

woman as he could easily marry her at a subsequent point in 34 time. Two of the fundamental props or bases of this archaic law

have since gone. Post 1955-1956, with the advent of the ―Hindu

Code‖, so to speak, a Hindu man can marry only one wife; and

adultery has been made a ground for divorce in Hindu Law.

Further, the real heart of this archaic law discloses itself when

consent or connivance of the married woman‘s husband is

obtained – the married or unmarried man who has sexual

intercourse with such a woman, does not then commit the

offence of adultery. This can only be on the paternalistic notion

of a woman being likened to chattel, for if one is to use the

chattel or is licensed to use the chattel by the ―licensor‖,

namely, the husband, no offence is committed. Consequently,

the wife who has committed adultery is not the subject matter of

the offence, and cannot, for the reason that she is regarded

only as chattel, even be punished as an abettor. This is also for

the chauvinistic reason that the third-party male has ‗seduced‘

her, she being his victim. What is clear, therefore, is that this

archaic law has long outlived its purpose and does not square

with today‘s constitutional morality, in that the very object with 35 which it was made has since become manifestly arbitrary,

having lost its rationale long ago and having become in today‘s

day and age, utterly irrational. On this basis alone, the law

deserves to be struck down, for with the passage of time, Article 14 springs into action and interdicts such law as being

manifestly arbitrary. That legislation can be struck down on the

ground of manifest arbitrariness is no longer open to any doubt,

as has been held by this Court in Shayara Bano v. Union of

India and Ors. , (2017) 9 SCC 1, as follows: 24. It is clear, therefore, that the ostensible object of Section

497, as pleaded by the State, being to protect and preserve the

sanctity of marriage, is not in fact the object of Section 497 at

all, as has been seen hereinabove. The sanctity of marriage

can be utterly destroyed by a married man having sexual 36 intercourse with an unmarried woman or a widow, as has been

seen hereinabove. Also, if the husband consents or connives at

such sexual intercourse, the offence is not committed, thereby

showing that it is not sanctity of marriage which is sought to be

protected and preserved, but a proprietary right of a husband.

Secondly, no deterrent effect has been shown to exist, or ever

to have existed, which may be a legitimate consideration for a

State enacting criminal law. Also, manifest arbitrariness is writ

large even in cases where the offender happens to be a

married woman whose marriage has broken down, as a result

of which she no longer cohabits with her husband, and may in

fact, have obtained a decree for judicial separation against her

husband, preparatory to a divorce being granted. If, during this

period, she has sex with another man, the other man is

immediately guilty of the offence. 25. The aforesaid provision is also discriminatory and

therefore, violative of Article 14 and Article 15(1). As has been

held by us hereinabove, in treating a woman as chattel for the

purposes of this provision, it is clear that such provision 37 discriminates against women on grounds of sex only, and must

be struck down on this ground as well. Section 198 , CrPC is

also a blatantly discriminatory provision, in that it is the husband

alone or somebody on his behalf who can file a complaint

against another man for this offence. Consequently, Section

198 has also to be held constitutionally infirm. 26. We have, in our recent judgment in Justice K.S.

Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors. ,

(2017) 10 SCC 1, (―Puttaswamy‖), held: The Constitution does not contain a separate article
telling us that privacy has been declared to be a
fundamental right. Nor have we tagged the
provisions of Part III with an alpha-suffixed right to
privacy: this is not an act of judicial redrafting.
Dignity cannot exist without privacy. Both reside
within the inalienable values of life, liberty and 40 freedom which the Constitution has recognised.
Privacy is the ultimate expression of the sanctity of
the individual. It is a constitutional value which
straddles across the spectrum of fundamental rights
and protects for the individual a zone of choice and
self-determination.‖

xxx xxx xxx

―482. Shri Sundaram has argued that rights have to
be traced directly to those expressly stated in the
fundamental rights chapter of the Constitution for
such rights to receive protection, and privacy is not
one of them. It will be noticed that the dignity of the
individual is a cardinal value, which is expressed in
the Preamble to the Constitution. Such dignity is not
expressly stated as a right in the fundamental rights
chapter, but has been read into the right to life and
personal liberty. The right to live with dignity is
expressly read into Article 21 by the judgment
in Jolly George Varghese v. Bank of Cochin [Jolly
George Varghese v. Bank of Cochin, (1980) 2 SCC
360], at para 10. Similarly, the right against bar
fetters and handcuffing being integral to an
individual's dignity was read into Article 21 by the
judgment in Sunil Batra v. Delhi Admn. [Sunil
Batra v. Delhi Admn., (1978) 4 SCC 494 : 1979 SCC
(Cri) 155], at paras 192, 197-B, 234 and 241 and
Prem Shankar Shukla v. Delhi Admn. [Prem
Shankar Shukla v. Delhi Admn., (1980) 3 SCC 526 : 27. When we come to the decision of this Court in Yusuf

Abdul Aziz (supra), it is clear that this judgment also does not,

in any manner, commend itself or keep in tune with modern

constitutional doctrine. In any case, as has been held above, its

ratio is an extremely limited one as it upheld a wife not being

punishable as an abettor which is contained in Section 497 ,

IPC. The focus on whether the provision as a whole would be

constitutionally infirm was not there in the aforesaid judgment.

At this stage, it is necessary to advert to Chief Justice Chagla‘s

foresight in the Bombay High Court judgment which landed up 43 in appeal before this Court in Yusuf Abdul Aziz’s (supra).

Chief Justice Chagla had stated that since the underlying idea

of Section 497 is that wives are properties of their husbands,

Section 497 should not find a place in any modern Code of law,

and is an argument in favour of doing away with Section 497

altogether. The day has long since arrived when the Section

does, in fact, need to be done away with altogether, and is

being done away with altogether. 28. In Sowmithri Vishnu (supra), this Court upheld Section

497 while repelling three arguments against its continuance, as

has been noticed hereinabove. This judgment also must be

said to be swept away by the tidal wave of recent judgments

expanding the scope of the fundamental rights contained in Articles 14 , 15 , and 21. Ancient notions of the man being the

seducer and the woman being the victim permeate the

judgment, which is no longer the case today. The moving times

have not left the law behind as we have just seen, and so far as

engaging the attention of law makers when reform of penal law

is undertaken, we may only hasten to add that even when the 44 CrPC was fully replaced in 1973, Section 198 continued to be

on the statute book. Even as of today, Section 497 IPC

continues to be on the statute book. When these sections are

wholly outdated and have outlived their purpose, not only does

the maxim of Roman law, cessante ratione legis, cessat ipsa

lex, apply to interdict such law, but when such law falls foul of

constitutional guarantees, it is this Court‘s solemn duty not to

wait for legislation but to strike down such law. As recently as in Shayara Bano (supra), it is only the minority view of Khehar,

C.J.I. and S. Abdul Nazeer, J., that one must wait for the law to

change legislatively by way of social reform. The majority view

was the exact opposite, which is why Triple Talaq was found

constitutionally infirm and struck down by the majority. Also, we

are of the view that the statement in this judgment that stability

of marriages is not an ideal to be scorned, can scarcely be

applied to this provision, as we have seen that marital stability

is not the object for which this provision was enacted. On all

these counts, therefore, we overrule the judgment in Sowmithri

Vishnu (supra). Equally, the judgment in V. Revathi (supra),

which upheld the constitutional validity of Section 198 must, for 45 similar reasons, be held to be no longer good law. We,

therefore, declare that Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code,

1860 and Section 198 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973

are violative of Articles 14 , 15(1) , and 21 of the Constitution of

India and are, therefore, struck down as being invalid. ……………………………..J.
 (R.F. Nariman)

New Delhi; September 27, 2018. G Denuding identity - women as sexual property

 G.1 Exacting fidelity: the intimacies of marriage

H Towards transformative justice 1 PART A

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

A Gender: the discursive struggle

1 Our Constitution is a repository of rights, a celebration of myriad freedoms

and liberties. It envisages the creation of a society where the ideals of equality,

dignity and freedom triumph over entrenched prejudices and injustices. The

creation of a just, egalitarian society is a process. It often involves the

questioning and obliteration of parochial social mores which are antithetical to

constitutional morality. The case at hand enjoins this constitutional court to make

an enquiry into the insidious permeation of patriarchal values into the legal order

and its role in perpetuating gender injustices.

2 Law and society are intrinsically connected and oppressive social values

often find expression in legal structures. The law influences society as well but

societal values are slow to adapt to leads shown by the law. The law on adultery

cannot be construed in isolation. To fully comprehend its nature and impact,

every legislative provision must be understood as a ‘discourse’ about social

structuring.1 However, the discourse of law is not homogenous.2 In the context

particularly of Section 497, it regards individuals as ‘gendered citizens’.3 In doing

so, the law creates and ascribes gender roles based on existing societal 1 Ratna Kapur and Brenda Cossman, Subversive Sites: Feminist Engagements with Law in India, Sage Publications
 (1996) at page 40
2 Ibid at page 41
3 Ibid 2 PART A

stereotypes. An understanding of law as a ‘discourse’ would lead to the

recognition of the role of law in creating ‘gendered identities’.4

3 Over the years, legal reform has had a significant role in altering the

position of women in societal orderings. This is seen in matters concerning

inheritance and in the protection against domestic violence. However, in some

cases, the law operates to perpetuate an unequal world for women. Thus,

depending on the manner in which it is used, law can act as an agent of social

change as well as social stagnation. Scholar Patricia Williams, who has done

considerable work on the critical race theory, is sanguine about the possibility of

law engendering progressive social transformation: To fully recognise the role of law and society in shaping the lives and identities of

women, is also to ensure that patriarchal social values and legal norms are not

permitted to further obstruct the exercise of constitutional rights by the women of

our country. 4 In the preceding years, the Court has evolved a jurisprudence of rights-

granting primacy to the right to autonomy, dignity and individual choice. The right

to sexual autonomy and privacy has been granted the stature of a Constitutional

right. In confronting the sources of gendered injustice which threaten the rights

and freedoms promised in our Constitution, we set out to examine the validity of Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code. In doing so, we also test the

constitutionality of moral and societal regulation of women and their intimate lives

through the law. 7 Ibid
8 Gayatri Spivak, The Post Colonial Critic: Interviews, Strategies, Dialogies, Routledge (1990) 4 PART B

B Judicial discourse on adultery

5 This Court, on earlier occasions, has tested the constitutionality of Section

497 of the Indian Penal Code as well as Section 198(2) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. Section 497 reads thus: This Court construed the exemption granted to women from criminal sanctions as

a ‘special provision’ for the benefit of women and thus, protected under Article

15(3) of the Constitution. In Union of India v Elphinstone Spinning and

Weaving Co. Ltd,11 a Constitution Bench of this Court held: The judgment of the three judge Bench indicates that three grounds of challenge

were addressed before this Court : first, while Section 497 confers a right on the

husband to prosecute the adulterer, it does not confer upon the wife to prosecute

the woman with whom her husband has committed adultery; second, Section

497 does not confer a right on the wife to prosecute her husband who has

committed adultery with another woman; and third, Section 497 does not cover

cases where a man has sexual relations with an unmarried woman. The

submission before this Court was that the classification under Section 497 was

irrational and ‘arbitrary’. Moreover, it was also urged that while facially, the

provision appears to be beneficial to a woman, it is in reality based on a notion of

paternalism “which stems from the assumption that women, like chattels, are the

property of men.”

10 The decision in Sowmithri Vishnu dealt with the constitutional challenge

by approaching the discourse on the denial of equality in formal, and rather

narrow terms. Chandrachud, CJ speaking for the three judge Bench observed

that by definition, the offence of adultery can be committed by a man and not by

a woman. The court construed the plea of the petitioner as amounting to a 9 PART B

suggestion that the definition should be recast in a manner that would make the

offence gender neutral. The court responded by observing that this was a matter

of legislative policy and that the court could invalidate the provision only if a

constitutional violation is established. The logic of the court, to the effect that

extending the ambit of a statutory definition is a matter which requires legislative

change is unexceptionable. The power to fashion an amendment to the law lies

with the legislature. But this only leads to the conclusion that the court cannot

extend the legislative prescription by making the offence gender neutral. It does

not answer the fundamental issue as to whether punishment for adultery is valid

in constitutional terms. The error in Sowmithri Vishnu lies in holding that there

was no constitutional infringement. The judgment postulates that: 11 The decision in Sowmithri Vishnu has left unanswered the fundamental

challenge which was urged before the Court. Under Article 14 , the challenge was

that the statutory provision treats a woman purely as the property of her

husband. That a woman is regarded no more than as a possession of her

husband is evidenced in Section 497, in more than one context. The provision

stipulates that a man who has sexual intercourse with the wife of another will not

be guilty of offence if the husband of the woman were to consent or, (worse still,

to connive. In this, it is evident that the legislature attributes no agency to the

woman. Whether or not a man with whom she has engaged in sexual intercourse

is guilty of an offence depends exclusively on whether or not her husband is a

consenting individual. No offence exists if her husband were to consent. Even if

her husband were to connive at the act, no offence would be made out. The

mirror image of this constitutional infirmity is that the wife of the man who has

engaged in the act has no voice or agency under the statute. Again, the law does 11 PART B

not make it an offence for a married man to engage in an act of sexual

intercourse with a single woman. His wife is not regarded by the law as a person

whose agency and dignity is affected. The underlying basis of not penalising a

sexual act by a married man with a single woman is that she (unlike a married

woman) is not the property of a man (as the law would treat her to be if she is

married). Arbitrariness is writ large on the provision. The problem with Section

497 is not just a matter of under inclusion. The court in Sowmithri Vishnu

recognised that an under-inclusive definition is not necessarily discriminatory and

that the legislature is entitled to deal with the evil where it is felt and seen the

most. The narrow and formal sense in which the provisions of Article 14 have

been construed is evident again from the following observations: Significantly, even the challenge under Article 21 was addressed on behalf of the

petitioner in that case in a rather narrow frame. The argument before this Court

was that at the trial involving an offence alleged to have been committed under

Section 497, the woman with whom the accused is alleged to have had sexual

intercourse would have no right of being heard. It was this aspect alone which

was addressed in Sowmithri Vishnu when the court held that such a right of

being heard can be read in an appropriate case. Ultimately, the court held that: Understanding the gendered nature of Section 497 needs an inquiry into the

origins of the provision itself as well as the offence of adultery more broadly. The

history of adultery throws light upon disparate attitudes toward male and female

infidelity, and reveals the double standard in law and morality that has been

applied to men and women.20

15 Throughout history, adultery has been regarded as an offence; it has been

treated as a religious transgression, as a crime deserving harsh punishment, as

a private wrong, or as a combination of these.21 The earliest recorded injunctions

against adultery are found in the ancient code of the Babylonian king

Hammurabi, dating from circa 1750 B.C. The code prescribed that a married

woman caught in adultery be bound to her lover and thrown into water so that

they drown together.22 By contrast, Assyrian law considered adultery to be a

private wrong for which the husband or father of the woman committing adultery

could seek compensation from her partner.23 English historian Faramerz

Dabhoiwala notes that the primary purpose of these laws was to protect the

property rights of men: 20 16 In Ancient Greco-Roman societies, there existed a sexual double standard

according to which adultery constituted a violation of a husband’s exclusive

sexual access to his wife, for which the law allowed for acts of revenge. 25 In 17

B.C., Emperor Augustus passed the Lex Julia de adulteriis coercendis, which

stipulated that a father was allowed to kill his daughter and her partner when

caught committing adultery in his or her husband’s house.26 While in the Judaic

belief adultery merited death by stoning for both the adulteress and her partner, 27

Christianity viewed adultery more as a moral and spiritual failure than as a public

crime.28 The penalties of the Lex Julia were made more severe by Christian

emperors. Emperor Constantine, for instance, introduced the death penalty for

adultery, which allowed the husband the right to kill his wife if she committed

adultery.29 Under the Lex Julia, adultery was primarily a female offence, and the

law reflected the sentiments of upper-class Roman males.30

24 Faramerz Dabhoiwala, The Origins of Sex: A History of the First Sexual Revolution (2012), at page 5
25 David Turner, Adultery in The Oxford Encyclopaedia of Women in World History (2008), at page 30
26 Vern Bullough, Medieval Concepts of Adultery, at page 7
27 The Oxford Encyclopaedia of Women in World History, (Bonnie G Smith ed.), Oxford, at page 27 28 Martin Siegel, For Better or for Worse: Adultery, Crime & the Constitution, Vol. 30, Journal of Family Law (1991), at
 page 46
29 Vern Bullough, Medieval Concepts of Adultery, at page 7
30 James A. Brundage, Law, Sex, and Christian Society in Medieval Europe, at page 27 17 PART C

17 Once monogamy came to be accepted as the norm in Britain between the

fourth and fifth centuries, adultery came to be recognized as a serious wrong that

interfered with a husband’s “rights” over his wife.31 The imposition of criminal

sanctions on adultery was also largely based on ideas and beliefs about sexual

morality which acquired the force of law in Christian Europe during the Middle

Ages.32 The development of canon law in the twelfth century enshrined the

perception of adultery as a spiritual misdemeanour. In the sixteenth century,

following the Reformation, adultery became a crucial issue because Protestants

placed new emphasis on marriage as a linchpin of the social and moral order. 33

Several prominent sixteenth century reformers, including Martin Luther and John

Calvin, argued that a marriage was irreparably damaged by infidelity, and they

advocated divorce in such cases.34

Concerned with the “moral corruption” prevalent in England since the

Reformation, Puritans in the Massachusetts Bay Colony introduced the death

penalty for committing adultery.35 The strict morality of the early English colonists

is reflected in the famous 1850 novel ‘The Scarlet Letter’ by Nathaniel

Hawthorne, in which an unmarried woman who committed adultery and bore a

child out of wedlock was made to wear the letter A (for adulterer) when she went

out in public; her lover was not so tagged, suggesting that women were punished

31 Jeremy D. Weinstein, Adultery, Law, and the State: A History, Vol. 38, Hastings Law Journal (1986), at page 202;
 R. Huebner, A History of Germanic Private Law (F. Philbrick trans. 1918) 32 James A. Brundage, Law, Sex, and Christian Society in Medieval Europe, at page 6
33 David Turner, Adultery in The Oxford Encyclopaedia of Women in World History (2008), at page 30
34 Ibid. 35 The Oxford Encyclopaedia of Women in World History, (Bonnie G Smith ed.), Oxford, at page 30 18 PART C

more severely than men for adultery, especially when they had a child as

evidence.36

18 In 1650, England enacted the infamous Act for Suppressing the Detestable

Sins of Incest, Adultery and Fornication, which introduced the death penalty for

sex with a married woman.37 The purpose of the Act was as follows: 19 In 19th century Britain, married women were considered to be chattel of

their husbands in law, and female adultery was subjected to ostracism far worse

than male adultery because of the problem it could cause for property inheritance

through illegitimate children.41 Consequently, many societies viewed chastity,

together with related virtues such as modesty, as more central components of a

woman’s honor and reputation than of a man’s.42 The object of adultery laws was

not to protect the bodily integrity of a woman, but to allow her husband to

exercise control over her sexuality, in order to ensure the purity of his own

bloodline. The killing of a man engaged in an adulterous act with one’s wife was

considered to be manslaughter, and not murder.43 In R v Mawgridge,44 Judge

Holt wrote that: 20 In his Commentaries on the Laws of England, William Blackstone wrote

that under the common law, “the very being or legal existence of the woman

40 J. E. Loftis, Congreve’s Way of the World and Popular Criminal Literature, Studies in English Literature, 1500 –
 1900 36(3) (1996), at page 293 41 Joanne Bailey, Unquiet Lives: Marriage and Marriage Breakdown in England, 1660–1800 (2009), at page 143
42 David Turner, Adultery in The Oxford Encyclopaedia of Women in World History (2008), at page 28
43 Blackstone’s Commentaries on the Laws of England, Book IV (1778), at page 191-192
44 (1707) Kel. 119 20 PART C

[was] suspended during the marriage, or at least [was] incorporated and

consolidated into that of the husband: under whose wing, protection and cover,

she performe[d] everything.”45 In return for support and protection, the wife owed

her husband “consortium” of legal obligations, which included sexual

intercourse.46 Since adultery interfered with the husband's exclusive entitlements,

it was considered to be the “highest possible invasion of property,” similar to

theft.47 In fact, civil actions for adultery evolved from actions for enticing away a

servant from a master and thus depriving the master of the quasi-proprietary

interest in his services.48

Faramerz Dabhoiwala notes that a man’s wife was considered to be his property,

and that another man’s “unlawful copulation” with her warranted punishment: 45 William Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England. Vol. I (1765), at pages 442 445
46 Vera Bergelson, Rethinking Rape-By-Fraud in Legal Perspectives on State Power: Consent and Control (Chris
 Ashford, Alan Reed and Nicola Wake, eds.) (2016), at page 161 47 R v. Mawgridge, (1707) Kel. 119
48 Vera Bergelson, Rethinking Rape-By-Fraud in Legal Perspectives on State Power: Consent and Control (Chris

 Ashford, Alan Reed and Nicola Wake, eds.) (2016), at page 161
49 Blackstone’s Commentaries on the Laws of England, Book IV (1778), at pages 64-65 21 PART C

and principal architect of the IPC , considered the possibility of criminalizing

adultery in India, and ultimately concluded that it would serve little purpose. 50

According to Lord Macaulay, the possible benefits from an adultery offence could

be better achieved through pecuniary compensation.51 Section 497 did not find a

place in the first Draft Penal Code prepared by Lord Macaulay. On an appraisal

of the facts and opinions collected from all three Presidencies about the

feasibility criminalizing adultery, he concluded in his Notes to the IPC that: The power to prosecute lies only with the husband (and not to the wife in cases

where her husband commits adultery), and whether the crime itself has been

committed depends on whether the husband provides “consent for the allegedly

adulterous act.”

24 Women, therefore, occupy a liminal space in the law: they cannot be

prosecuted for committing adultery, nor can they be aggrieved by it, by virtue of

their status as their husband’s property. Section 497 is also premised upon

sexual stereotypes that view women as being passive and devoid of sexual

agency. The notion that women are ‘victims’ of adultery and therefore require the

beneficial exemption under Section 497 has been deeply criticized by feminist

scholars, who argue that such an understanding of the position of women is

demeaning and fails to recognize them as equally autonomous individuals in

society.59 Effectively, Indian jurisprudence has interpreted the constitutional

guarantee of sex equality as a justification for differential treatment: to treat men

58 Ibid. 59 Abhinav Sekhri, The Good, The Bad, And The Adulterous: Criminal Law And Adultery In India, Socio-Legal Review
 (2016), at page 63 25 PART C

and women differently is, ultimately, to act in women’s interests. 60 The status of

Section 497 as a “special provision”61 operating for the benefit of women,

therefore, constitutes a paradigmatic example of benevolent patriarchy.

25 Throughout history, the law has failed to ask the woman question. 62 It has

failed to interrogate the generalizations or stereotypes about the nature,

character and abilities of the sexes on which laws rest, and how these notions

affect women and their interaction with the law. A woman's ‘purity’ and a man’s

marital ‘entitlement’ to her exclusive sexual possession may be reflective of the

antiquated social and sexual mores of the nineteenth century, but they cannot be

recognized as being so today. It is not the “common morality” of the State at any

time in history, but rather constitutional morality, which must guide the law. In any

democracy, constitutional morality requires the assurance of certain rights that

are indispensable for the free, equal, and dignified existence of all members of

society. A commitment to constitutional morality requires us to enforce the

constitutional guarantees of equality before law, non-discrimination on account of

sex, and dignity, all of which are affected by the operation of Section 497.

60 Brenda Cossman and Ratna Kapur, Subversive Sites: Feminist Engagements with Law in India (1996) 61 Yusuf Abdul Aziz v. State of Bombay , 1954 SCR 930
62 The ‘Woman Question’ was one of the great issues that occupied the middle of the nineteenth century, namely the

 social purpose of women. It is used as a tool to enquire into the status of women in the law and how they interact
 with and are affected by it; See Katherine T. Bartlett, Feminist Legal Methods, Harvard Law Review (1990) 26 PART D

D Across frontiers

26 The last few decades have been characterized by numerous countries

around the world taking measures to decriminalize the offence of adultery due to

the gender discriminatory nature of adultery laws as well as on the ground that

they violate the right to privacy. However, progressive action has primarily been

taken on the ground that provisions penalising adultery are discriminatory against

women either patently on the face of the law or in their implementation. Reform

towards achieving a more egalitarian society in practice has also been driven by

active measures taken by the United Nations and other international human

rights organizations, where it has been emphasized that even seemingly gender-

neutral provisions criminalising adultery cast an unequal burden on women:63

 “Given continued discrimination and inequalities faced by
 women, including inferior roles attributed to them by
 patriarchal and traditional attitudes, and power imbalances in
 their relations with men, the mere fact of maintaining adultery
 as a criminal offence, even when it applies to both women
 and men, means in practice that women mainly will continue
 to face extreme vulnerabilities, and violation of their human
 rights to dignity, privacy and equality.”

The abolishing of adultery has been brought about in equal measure by

legislatures and courts. When decisions have been handed down by the judiciary

across the world, it has led to the creation of a rich body of transnational

jurisprudence. This section will focus on a few select comparative decisions

emanating from the courts of those countries where the provision criminalizing

adultery has been struck down through judicial action. The decisions of these
63 U N Working Group on Women’s Human Rights: Report (18 October, 2012), available at: The majority opinion of the Court was concurred with by five of the seven

judges66 who struck down the provision. The majority acknowledged that the

criminal provision had a legitimate legislative purpose in intending “to promote

the marriage system based on good sexual culture and practice and monogamy

and to preserve marital fidelity between spouses.” However, the Court sought to

strike a balance between the legitimate interest of the legislature in promoting the

64Case No: 2009Hun-Ba17, (Adultery Case), South Korea Constitutional Court (February 26, 2015), available at
 http://english.ccourt.go.kr/cckhome/eng/decisions/majordecisions/majorDetail.do 65 Firstpost, South Korean court abolishes law that made adultery illegal, (February 26, 2015), available at
 https://www.firstpost.com/world/south-korean-court-abolishes-law-saying-adultery-is-illegal-2122935.html
66 Opinion of Justice Park Han-Chul, Justice Lee Jin-Sung, Justice Kim Chang-Jong, Justice Seo Ki-Seog and Justice

 Cho Yong-Ho (Adultery is Unconstitutional) 28 PART D

institution of marriage and marital fidelity vis-à-vis the fundamental right of an

individual to self-determination, which included sexual-self-determination, and

was guaranteed under Article 10 of their Constitution.67 The Court held: 67 Article 10 of the South Korean Constitution “All citizens are assured of human worth and dignity and have the right
 to pursue happiness. It is the duty of the State to confirm and guarantee the fundamental and inviolable human
 rights of individuals.”
68 Supra, note 64, Part V- A (3)(1) (‘Change in Public’s Legal Awareness’ under the head of ‘Appropriateness of

 Means and Least Restrictiveness’) 29 PART D

Next, the Court analysed the appropriateness and effectiveness of criminal

punishment in curbing the offence of adultery. Addressing the question of

whether adultery should be regulated, the Court stated that modern criminal law

dictated that the State should not seek to interfere in an act that is not socially

harmful or deleterious to legal interests, simply because it is repugnant to

morality. Moreover, it held that the State had no business in seeking to control

an individual’s actions which were within the sphere of his or her constitutionally

protected rights of privacy and self-determination.

Moving on to the effectiveness of the provision at hand, the Court remarked that

criminalizing adultery did not help save a failing marriage. The Court remarked

that it was obvious that once a spouse was accused of adultery, the

consequence was generally intensified spousal conflict as opposed to the

possibility of family harmony: 69 Supra, note 64, Part V- A (3)(3) (‘Effectiveness of Criminal Punishment’, under the head of ‘Appropriateness of
 Means and Least Restrictiveness’) 30 PART D

Addressing the concern that an abolition of a penal consequence would result in

“chaos in sexual morality” or an increase of divorce due to adultery, the Court

concluded that there was no data at all to support these claims in countries

where adultery is repealed, stating: 70 Ibid. 31 PART D

the interference of the State in the rights to privacy and sexual autonomy were

clearly excessive and therefore failed the test of least restrictiveness.71

28 In 2007, the Ugandan Constitutional Court in Law Advocacy for Women

in Uganda v Attorney General of Uganda72, was called upon to rule on the

constitutionality of Section 154 of the Penal Code, on, the grounds that it violated

various protections granted by the Ugandan Constitution and meted out

discriminatory treatment between women and men. The law as it stood allowed a

married man to have a sexual relationship with an unmarried woman. Moreover,

only a man could be guilty of the offence of adultery when he had sexual

intercourse with a married woman. The same provision, however, penalized a

married woman who engaged in a sexual relationship with an unmarried or

married man outside of the marriage. The penalties for the offence also

prescribed a much stricter punishment for women as compared to their male

counterparts.73 The challenge was brought primarily under Article 21 of the

Ugandan Constitution, which guaranteed equality under the law, Article 24 which

mandates respect for human dignity and protection from inhuman treatment and 74 Article 33(1) , which protected the rights of women under the Constitution.

71 Supra, note 64, Part V- A (5) (‘Balance of Interests & Conclusion’)
72 Constitutional Petitions Nos. 13 /05 /& 05 /06 in Law Advocacy for Women in Uganda v. Attorney General of
 Uganda, (2007) UGCC 1 (5 April, 2007), available at
 https://ulii.org/ug/judgment/constitutional-court/2007/1
73 Reuters: ‘Uganda scraps "sexist" adultery law’, (April 5, 2007), available at

 https://www.reuters.com/article/us-uganda-adultery/uganda-scraps-sexist-adultery-law-idUSL0510814320070405
74 Constitutional Petitions Nos. 13 /05 /& 05 /06 in Law Advocacy for Women in Uganda v. Attorney General of

 Uganda, [2007] UGCC 1 (5 April, 2007), available at
 https://ulii.org/ug/judgment/constitutional-court/2007/1 32 PART D

The Respondent prayed that the Court consider making the provision of adultery

equal in its treatment of men and women, instead of striking it down completely.

However, in its holding, the Court denied this request, holding it could not

prescribe a punishment under penal law to change the statute. The Court held

that Section 154 of the Penal Code was wholly unconstitutional as being violative

of the provisions of the Constitution, and remarked: 75 Ibid. 76 DE v RH, [2015] ZACC 18
77 Ibid, at para 34 33 PART D

The decisions of the US Supreme Court bearing on the issue of privacy have

been analysed in an incisive article, titled “For Better or for Worse: Adultery,

Crime and The Constitution”78, by Martin Siegel. He presents three ways in which

adultery implicates the right to privacy. The first is that adultery must be viewed

as a constitutionally protected marital choice. Second, that certain adulterous

relationships are protected by the freedom of association and finally, that adultery

constitutes an action which is protected by sexual privacy.79 A brief study is also

undertaken on whether action penalizing adultery constitutes a legitimate interest

of the State. The first privacy interest in adultery is the right to marital choice. The U.S.

Supreme Court has upheld the values of ‘fundamental liberty’, ‘freedom of

choice’ and ‘the ‘right to privacy’ in marriage. With this jurisprudence, the author

argues, it would be strange if a decision to commit adultery is not a treated as a

matter of marriage and family life as expressed in Cleveland Board80, ‘an act

occurring in marriage’, as held in Griswold81 or a ‘matter of marriage and family

life’ as elucidated in Carey.82

78 Martin J. Siegel, For Better or For Worse: Adultery, Crime & the Constitution, Journal of Family Law, Vol.30, (1991) 45 79 Ibid, at page 46
80 Cleveland Board of Education v. LaFleur, 414 U.S. 623 (1973)
81 Griswold, 381 U. S. 1 (1967) 82 Carey, v. Population Serv. Int’l, 431 U.S. 678 34 PART D

Siegel posits that a decision to commit adultery is a decision ‘relating to marriage

and family relationships’ and therefore, falls within the domain of protected

private choices. He observes that the essence of the offence is in fact the

married status of one of the actors, and the mere fact that the commission of the

act consisted of a mere sexual act or a series of them is legally irrelevant. If the

argument that adultery, though unconventional, is an act related to marriage and

therefore fundamentally private is accepted, then it deserves equal protection.

Siegel cites Laurence Tribe, on accepting the ‘unconventional variants’ that also

form a part of privacy: transcendence, expression of private fantasy, release of inner
 tensions, and meaningful and acceptable expression of
 regressive desires to be again the free child - unafraid to lose
 control, playful, vulnerable, spontaneous, sensually loved.”94

Reflecting on the relationship between marital privacy and associational freedom,

Spiegel remarks the “heterogeneity of experience”, resulting in a variety of

choices, necessarily include the adulterous union which must be protected since

it is unrealistic to expect all individuals to conform to society’s idea of sexuality: The act which constitutes the offence under Section 497 of the Penal Code is a

man engaging in sexual intercourse with a woman who is the “wife of another

man”. For the offence to arise, the man who engages in sexual intercourse must

either know or have reason to believe that the woman is married. Though a man

has engaged in sexual intercourse with a woman who is married, the offence of

adultery does not come into being where he did so with the consent or

connivance of her husband. These ingredients of Section 497 lay bare several features which bear on the

challenge to its validity under Article 14. The fact that the sexual relationship

between a man and a woman is consensual is of no significance to the offence, if

the ingredients of the offence are established. What the legislature has

99 Iris Marion Young, Justice and the Politics of Difference, Princeton University Press, 1990 40 PART E

constituted as a criminal offence is the act of sexual intercourse between a man

and a woman who is “the wife of another man”. No offence exists where a man

who has a subsisting marital relationship engages in sexual intercourse with a

single woman. Though adultery is considered to be an offence relating to

marriage, the legislature did not penalise sexual intercourse between a married

man and a single woman. Even though the man in such a case has a spouse,

this is considered to be of no legal relevance to defining the scope of the offence.

That is because the provision proceeds on the notion that the woman is but a

chattel; the property of her husband. The fact that he is engaging in a sexual

relationship outside marriage is of no consequence to the law. The woman with

whom he is in marriage has no voice of her own, no agency to complain. If the

woman who is involved in the sexual act is not married, the law treats it with

unconcern. The premise of the law is that if a woman is not the property of a

married man, her act would not be deemed to be ‘adulterous’, by definition.

31 The essence of the offence is that a man has engaged in an act of sexual

intercourse with the wife of another man. But if the man to whom she is married

were to consent or even to connive at the sexual relationship, the offence of

adultery would not be established. For, in the eyes of law, in such a case it is for

the man in the marital relationship to decide whether to agree to his spouse

engaging in a sexual act with another. Indeed, even if the two men (the spouse

of the woman and the man with whom she engages in a sexual act) were to

connive, the offence of adultery would not be made out. 41 PART E

32 Section 497 is destructive of and deprives a woman of her agency,

autonomy and dignity. If the ostensible object of the law is to protect the

‘institution of marriage’, it provides no justification for not recognising the agency

of a woman whose spouse is engaged in a sexual relationship outside of

marriage. She can neither complain nor is the fact that she is in a marital

relationship with a man of any significance to the ingredients of the offence. The

law also deprives the married woman who has engaged in a sexual act with

another man, of her agency. She is treated as the property of her husband. That

is why no offence of adultery would be made out if her husband were to consent

to her sexual relationship outside marriage. Worse still, if the spouse of the

woman were to connive with the person with whom she has engaged in sexual

intercourse, the law would blink. Section 497 is thus founded on the notion that a

woman by entering upon marriage loses, so to speak, her voice, autonomy and

agency. Manifest arbitrariness is writ large on the provision.

33 The test of manifest arbitrariness is rooted in Indian jurisprudence. In E P

Royappa v State of Tamil Nadu100, Justice Bhagwati characterised equality as a

“dynamic construct” which is contrary to arbitrariness: 34 The decision in Shayara Bano, holds that legislation or state action which

is manifestly arbitrary would have elements of caprice and irrationality and would

be characterized by the lack of an adequately determining principle. An

“adequately determining principle” is a principle which is in consonance with

constitutional values. With respect to criminal legislation, the principle which

determines the “act” that is criminalized as well as the persons who may be held

criminally culpable, must be tested on the anvil of constitutionality. The principle

must not be determined by majoritarian notions of morality which are at odds with

constitutional morality. 104 Ibid. at page 99 44 PART E

In Navtej Singh Johar v Union of India, (“Navtej”)105 Justice Indu Malhotra

emphasized the need for a “sound” or “rational principle” underlying a criminal

provision: It is based on a notion of marital subordination. In recognising, accepting and

enforcing these notions, Section 497 is inconsistent with the ethos of the

Constitution. Section 497 treats a woman as but a possession of her spouse. The

105 Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 76 OF 2016 45 PART E

essential values on which the Constitution is founded – liberty, dignity and

equality – cannot allow such a view of marriage. Section 497 suffers from

manifest arbitrariness. 36 While engrafting the provision into Chapter XX of the Penal Code – “of

offences relating to marriage” – the legislature has based the offence on an

implicit assumption about marriage. The notion which the law propounds and to

which it imposes the sanctions of penal law is that the marital tie subordinates

the role and position of the woman. In that view of marriage, the woman is bereft

of the ability to decide, to make choices and give free expression to her

personality. Human sexuality is an essential aspect of identity. Choices in

matters of sexuality are reflective of the human desire for expression. Sexuality

cannot be construed purely as a physiological attribute. In its associational

attributes, it links up with the human desire to be intimate with a person of one’s

choice. Sharing of physical intimacies is a reflection of choice. In allowing

individuals to make those choices in a consensual sphere, the Constitution

acknowledges that even in the most private of zones, the individual must have

the ability to make essential decisions. Sexuality cannot be dis-associated from

the human personality. For, to be human involves the ability to fulfil sexual

desires in the pursuit of happiness. Autonomy in matters of sexuality is thus

intrinsic to a dignified human existence. Human dignity both recognises and

protects the autonomy of the individual in making sexual choices. The sexual

choices of an individual cannot obviously be imposed on others in society and 46 PART E

are premised on a voluntary acceptance by consenting parties. Section 497

denudes the woman of the ability to make these fundamental choices, in

postulating that it is only the man in a marital relationship who can consent to his

spouse having sexual intercourse with another. Section 497 disregards the

sexual autonomy which every woman possesses as a necessary condition of her

existence. Far from being an equal partner in an equal relationship, she is

subjugated entirely to the will of her spouse. The provision is proffered by the

legislature as an effort to protect the institution of marriage. But it proceeds on a

notion of marriage which is one sided and which denies agency to the woman in

a marital tie. The ability to make choices within marriage and on every aspect

concerning it is a facet of human liberty and dignity which the Constitution

protects. In depriving the woman of that ability and recognising it in the man

alone, Section 497 fails to meet the essence of substantive equality in its

application to marriage. Equality of rights and entitlements between parties to a

marriage is crucial to preserve the values of the Constitution. Section 497

offends that substantive sense of equality and is violative of Article 14. 37 The procedural law which has been enacted in Section 198 of the Code of

Criminal Procedure 1973 re-enforces the stereotypes implicit in Section 497.

Cognizance of an offence under Chapter XX of the Penal Code can be taken by

a Court only upon a complaint of a person aggrieved. In the case of an offence

punishable under Section 497, only the husband of the woman is deemed to be

aggrieved by the offence. In any event, once the provisions of Section 497 are 47 PART E

held to offend the fundamental rights, the procedure engrafted in Section 198 will

cease to have any practical relevance. 38 Section 497 amounts to a denial of substantive equality. The decisions in

Sowmithri and Revathi espoused a formal notion of equality, which is contrary

to the constitutional vision of a just social order. Justness postulates equality. In

consonance with constitutional morality, substantive equality is “directed at

eliminating individual, institutional and systemic discrimination against

disadvantaged groups which effectively undermines their full and equal social,

economic, political and cultural participation in society.”106 To move away from a

formalistic notion of equality which disregards social realities, the Court must take

into account the impact of the rule or provision in the lives of citizens.

The primary enquiry to be undertaken by the Court towards the realisation of

substantive equality is to determine whether the provision contributes to the

subordination of a disadvantaged group of individuals.107 The disadvantage must

be addressed not by treating a woman as ‘weak’ but by construing her

entitlement to an equal citizenship. The former legitimizes patronising attitudes

towards women. The latter links true equality to the realisation of dignity. The

focus of such an approach is not simply on equal treatment under the law, but 106 Kathy Lahey, Feminist Theories of (In)equality, in Equality and Judicial Nuetrality (S.Martin and K.Mahoney (eds.) (1987) 107 Ratna Kapur On Woman, Equality and the Constitution: Through the Looking Glass of Feminism in Gender and

 Politics in India (Nivedita Menon ed.) (1993) 48 PART E

rather on the real impact of the legislation.108 Thus, Section 497 has to be

examined in the light of existing social structures which enforce the position of a

woman as an unequal participant in a marriage.

Catherine Mackinnon implores us to look more critically at the reality of this

family sphere, termed ‘‘personal,’’ and view the family as a “crucible of women’s

unequal status and subordinate treatment sexually, physically, economically, and

civilly.”109 In a social order which has enforced patriarchal notions of sexuality

upon women and which treats them as subordinate to their spouses in

heterosexual marriages, Section 497 perpetuates an already existing inequality.

39 Facially, the law may be construed to operate as an exemption from

criminal sanctions. However, when viewed in the context of a social structure

which considers the husband as the owner of the wife’s sexuality, the law

perpetuates a deeply entrenched patriarchal order. The true realisation of the

substantive content of equality must entail an overhaul of these social structures.

When all visible and invisible forms of inequality- social, cultural, economic,

political or sexual- are recognised and obliterated; a truly egalitarian existence

can be imagined. 108 Maureen Maloney, An Analysis of Direct Taxes in India: A Feminist Perspective, Journal of the Indian Law Institute (1988) 109 Catherine A Mackinnon, Sex equality under the Constitution of India: Problems, prospects, and ‘personal laws’,

 Oxford University Press and New York University School of Law (2006) 49 PART F

F ‘The Good Wife’ Article 15 of the Constitution reads thus: The Petitioners contend that (i) Section 497, in so far as it places a husband and

wife on a different footing in a marriage perpetuates sex discrimination; (ii)

Section 497 is based on the patriarchal conception of the woman as property,

entrenches gender stereotypes, and is consequently hit by Article 15. From a joint reading of Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 198(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the following propositions emerge: PART F

A married man may engage in sexual relations with an unmarried woman who is

not his wife without the fear of opening his partner to prosecution and without the

consent of his spouse. No recourse is provided to a woman against her husband

who engages in sexual relations outside marriage. The effect of Section 497 is to

allow the sexual agency of a married woman to be wholly dependent on the

consent or connivance of her husband. Though Section 497 does not punish a

woman engaging in adultery as an abettor, a married man and a married woman

are placed on different pedestals in respect to their actions. The effect of Section

497, despite granting immunity from prosecution to the married woman, is to

attach a notion of wrongdoing to the exercise of her sexual agency. Despite

exempting her from prosecution, the exercise of her sexual agency is contingent

on the consent or connivance of the husband. A husband is considered an

aggrieved party by the law if his wife engages in sexual intercourse with another

man, but the wife is not, if her husband does the same. Viewed from this angle,

Section 497 discriminates between a married man and a married woman to her

detriment on the ground of sex. This kind of discrimination is prohibited by the

non-discrimination guarantee in Article 15 of the Constitution. Section 497 also

places a woman within marriage and the man with whom she shares a sexual

relationship outside marriage on a different footing.

42 Section 497 criminalizes the conduct of the man who has sexual

intercourse with the wife of another without his consent. It exempts women from

criminal liability. Underlying this exemption is the notion that women, being 52 PART F

denuded of sexual agency, should be afforded the ‘protection’ of the law. In

criminalizing the accused who engages in the sexual relationship, the law

perpetuates a gender stereotype that men, possessing sexual agency are the

seducers, and that women, as passive beings devoid of sexual agency, are the

seduced. The notion that a woman is ‘submissive’, or worse still ‘naïve’ has no

legitimacy in the discourse of a liberal constitution. It is deeply offensive to

equality and destructive of the dignity of the woman. On this stereotype, Section

497 criminalizes only the accused man. 43 Pertinent to the present enquiry, is that the provision allows only the

husband to initiate a prosecution for adultery. The consent or connivance of the

husband precludes prosecution. If a husband consents, his spouse is effectively

granted permission to exercise her sexual agency with another individual. This

guarantees a degree of control to the husband over the sexual agency of his

spouse. As a relic of Victorian morality, this control over the sexual agency of the

spouse, views the wife as the property of the husband. Fidelity of the woman,

and the husband’s control over it, is seen as maintaining the ‘property’ interest of

a husband in his wife.110 In this view, a woman is confounded with things that can

be possessed. In construing the spouse as a passive or inanimate object, the law

on adultery seeks to punish a person who attempts theft on the property of the

husband. Coontz and Henderson write that the stabilization of property rights and

110Phyllis Coleman, Who’s Been Sleeping in My Bed? You and Me, and the State Makes Three, Vol. 24, Indian Law
 Review (1991) 53 PART F

the desire to pass on one’s property to legitimate heirs, were what motivated men

to restrict the sexual behavior of their wives.111

44 Underlying Section 497 is a gender stereotype that the infidelity of men is

normal, but that of a woman is impermissible. In condemning the sexual agency

of the woman, only the husband, as the ‘aggrieved’ party is given the right to

initiate prosecution. The proceedings once initiated, would be geared against the

person who committed an act of ‘theft’ or ‘trespass’ upon his spouse. Sexual

relations by a man with another man’s wife is therefore considered as theft of the

husband’s property. Ensuring a man’s control over the sexuality of his wife was

the true purpose of Section 497. Implicit in seeking to privilege the fidelity of women in a marriage, is the

assumption that a woman contracts away her sexual agency when entering a

marriage. That a woman, by marriage, consents in advance to sexual relations

with her husband or to refrain from sexual relations outside marriage without the

permission of her husband is offensive to liberty and dignity. Such a notion has

no place in the constitutional order. Sexual autonomy constitutes an inviolable

core of the dignity of every individual. At the heart of the constitutional rights

guaranteed to every individual is a primacy of choice and the freedom to

determine one’s actions. Curtailing the sexual autonomy of a woman or

111 Women’s Work, Men’s Property: The Origins of Gender and Class (S Coontz and P Henderson eds.) (1986) 54 PART F

presuming the lack of consent once she enters a marriage is antithetical to

constitutional values. 45 A provision of law must not be viewed as operating in isolation from the

social, political, historical and cultural contexts in which it operates. In its

operation, law “permeates and is inseparable from everyday living and knowing,

and it plays an important role in shaping (legal) consciousness.”112 A contextual

reading of the law shows that it influences social practices, and makes

“asymmetries of power seem, if not invisible, natural and benign”. 113 Section 497

has a significant social impact on the sexual agency of women. It builds on

existing gender stereotypes and bias and further perpetuates them. Cultural

stereotypes are more forgiving of a man engaging in sexual relations than a

woman. Women then are expected to be chaste before and faithful during

marriage. In restricting the sexual agency of women, Section 497 gives legal

recognition to socially discriminatory and gender-based norms. Sexual relations

for a woman were legally and socially permissible when it was within her

marriage. Women who committed adultery or non-marital sex were labeled

immoral, shameful, and were criminally condemned. 112 Rosemary Coombe, Is There a Cultural Studies of Law?, in A Companion to Cultural Studies, Toby Miller (ed.),
 Oxford, (2001)
113 Austin Sarat, Jonathan Simon, Beyond Legal Realism?: Cultural Analysis, Cultural Studies, and the Situation of

 Legal Scholarship, Yale Journal of Law & the Humanities, (2001), at page 19 55 PART F

In Anuj Garg v Hotel Association of India,114 this Court struck down Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 which prohibited the employment of women in

premises where liquor or other intoxicating drugs were consumed by the public.

Holding that the law suffered from “incurable fixations of stereotype morality and

conception of sexual role”, the Court took into account “traditional cultural norms

as also the state of general ambience in the society” and held that “no law in its

ultimate effect should end up perpetuating the oppression of women.”

In Navtej, one of us (Chandrachud J.) held thus: 114 (2008) 3 SCC 1 56 PART F

free exercise conditional on the consent of her spouse. In doing so, it

perpetuates the notion that a woman consents to a limited autonomy on entering

marriage. The provision is grounded in and has a deep social effect on how

society perceives the sexual agency of women. In reinforcing the patriarchal

structure which demands her controlled sexuality, Section 497 purports to serve

as a provision envisaged for the protection of the sanctity of marriage. In the

context of a constitutional vision characterized by the struggle to break through

the shackles of gender stereotypes and guarantee an equal citizenship, Section

497 entrenches stereotypes and existing structures of discrimination and has no

place in a constitutional order. Underlying this exemption is the notion that a woman is the victim of being

seduced into a sexual relationship with a person who is not her husband. In

assuming that the woman has no sexual agency, the exemption seeks to be

justified on the ground of being a provision that is beneficial to women and

protected under Article 15(3) of the Constitution. This is contrary to the remedy

which Article 15(3) sought to embody. In Government of A P v P B

Vijayakumar,115 a two judge Bench of this Court dealt with a challenge to sub-

rule (2) of Rule 22-A of the Andhra Pradesh State and Subordinate Service

115 (1995) 4 SCC 520 57 PART F

Rules, which gave women a preference in the matter of direct recruitment.

Speaking for the Court, Justice Sujata V Manohar held thus: In exempting women from criminal prosecution, Section 497 implies that a

woman has no sexual agency and that she was ‘seduced’ into a sexual

relationship. Given the presumed lack of sexual agency, criminal exemption is

then granted to the woman in order to ‘protect’ her. The ‘protection’ afforded to

women under Section 497 highlights the lack of sexual agency that the section

imputes to a woman. Article 15(3) when read with the other Articles in Part III,

serves as a powerful remedy to remedy the discrimination and prejudice faced by

women for centuries. Article 15(3) as an enabling provision is intended to bring

out substantive equality in the fullest sense. Dignity and autonomy are crucial to

substantive equality. Hence, Article 15(3) does not protect a statutory provision

that entrenches patriarchal notions in the garb of protecting women.

G Denuding identity – women as sexual property

49 Charles Jean Marie wrote in 1911120 about the central forms of adultery as

an offence. The criminalisation of adultery came at a social cost: of disregarding

the agency of a woman as a sentient being. 120 Charles Jean Marie Letorneau, The Evolution of Marriage (2011) 59 PART G

 “In all legislations the married woman is more or less openly
 considered as the property of the husband and is very often
 confounded, absolutely confounded, with things possessed.
 To use her, therefore, without the authority of her owner is
 theft…But adultery is not a common theft. An object, an inert
 possession, are passive things; their owner may well punish
 the thief who has taken them, but him only. In adultery, the
 object of larceny, the wife, is a sentient and thinking
 being- that is to say, an accomplice in the attempt on her
 husband’s property in her own person; moreover he
 generally has her in his keeping…”

The law on adultery is but a codified rule of patriarchy. Patriarchy has permeated

the lives of women for centuries. Ostensibly, society has two sets of standards of

morality for judging sexual behaviour.121 One set for its female members and

another for males.122 Society ascribes impossible virtues to a woman and

confines her to a narrow sphere of behaviour by an expectation of conformity.123

Raising a woman to a pedestal is one part of the endeavour. The second part is

all about confining her to a space. The boundaries of that space are defined by

what a woman should or should not be. A society which perceives women as

pure and an embodiment of virtue has no qualms of subjecting them to virulent

attack: to rape, honour killings, sex-determination and infanticide. As an

embodiment of virtue, society expects the women to be a mute spectator to and

even accepting of egregious discrimination within the home. This is part of the

process of raising women to a pedestal conditioned by male notions of what is

right and what is wrong for a woman. The notion that women, who are equally

entitled to the protections of the Constitution as their male counterparts, may be 121 Nandita Haksar, Dominance, Suppression and the Law in Women and the Law: Contemporary Problems (Lotika
 Sarkar and B. Sivaramayya eds.), Vikas Publishing House (1994)
122 Ibid
123 Ibid 60 PART G

treated as objects capable of being possessed, is an exercise of subjugation and

inflicting indignity. Anachronistic conceptions of ‘chastity’ and ‘honour’ have

dictated the social and cultural lives of women, depriving them of the guarantees

of dignity and privacy, contained in the Constitution.

50 The right to privacy depends on the exercise of autonomy and agency by

individuals. In situations where citizens are disabled from exercising these

essential attributes, Courts must step in to ensure that dignity is realised in the

fullest sense. Familial structures cannot be regarded as private spaces where

constitutional rights are violated. To grant immunity in situations when rights of

individuals are in siege, is to obstruct the unfolding vision of the Constitution.

The opinion delivered on behalf of four judges in K S Puttaswamy v Union of

India124 has recognised the dangers of the “use of privacy as a veneer for

patriarchal domination and abuse of women.” On the delicate balance between

the competing interests of protecting privacy as well dignity of women in the

domestic sphere, the Court held: 51 In “Seeing like a Feminist”, Nivedita Menon has recognized the patriarchal

family as the “basis for the secondary status of women in society.”125 Menon

notes that ‘the personal is political’.126 Her scholarly work implores us to

recognise spaces which may be considered personal such as the bedroom and

kitchen. These spaces are immersed in power relations, but with ramifications for

the public sphere.127

Control over women’s sexuality is the key patriarchal assumption that underlies

family and marriage.128 When it shifts to the ‘public’ as opposed to the ‘private’,

the misogyny becomes even more pronounced.129 Section 497 embodies this. By

the operation of the provision, women’s sexuality is sought to be controlled in a

number of ways. First, the husband and he alone is enabled to prosecute the

man with whom his wife has sexual relations. Even in cases where the

relationship is based on the consent of the woman, the law treats it as an

offence, denying a woman who has voluntarily entered into a consensual

relationship of her sexual agency. Second, such a relationship would be beyond

the reach of penal law if her husband consents to it. The second condition is a

telling reflection of the patriarchal assumption underlying the criminal provision: PART G

52 In remedying injustices, the Court cannot shy away from delving into the

‘personal’, and as a consequence, the ‘public’. It becomes imperative for us to

intervene when structures of injustice and persecution deeply entrenched in

patriarchy are destructive of constitutional freedom. But, in adjudicating on the

rights of women, the Court is not taking on a paternalistic role and “granting”

rights. The Court is merely interpreting the text of the Constitution to re-state

what is already set in ink- women are equal citizens of this nation, entitled to the

protections of the Constitution. Any legislation which results in the denial of these

Constitutional guarantees to women, cannot pass the test of constitutionality.

Patriarchy and paternalism are the underpinnings of Section 497. It needs no

iteration that misogyny and patriarchal notions of sexual control find no place in a

constitutional order which has recognised dignity as intrinsic to a person,

autonomy being an essential component of this right. The operation of Section

497 denotes that ‘adulterous women’ virtually exercise no agency; or at least not

enough agency to make them criminally liable.130 They are constructed as

victims. As victims, they are to be protected by being exempt from sanctions of a

criminal nature.131 Not only is there a denial of sexual agency, women are also

not seen to be harmed by the offence.132 Thus, the provision is not simply about

protecting the sanctity of the marital relationship. It is all about protecting a

husband’s interest in his “exclusive access to his wife’s sexuality”.133

130 Ratna Kapur and Brenda Cossman, Subversive Sites: Feminist Engagements with Law in India, Sage Publications
 (1996) at page 119
131 Ibid. 132 Ibid. 133 Ibid. at page 120 63 PART G

53 Section 497 chains the woman to antediluvian notions of sexuality. Chief

Justice Dipak Misra in Navtej emphasised the importance of sexual autonomy as

a facet of individual liberty, thus protected under Article 21 of the Constitution: 54 Marriage as a social institution has undergone changes. Propelled by

access to education and by economic and social progress, women have found

greater freedom to assert their choices and preferences. The law must also

reflect their status as equals in a marriage, entitled to the constitutional

guarantees of privacy and dignity. The opinion delivered on behalf of four judges

in Puttaswamy held thus: 55 Section 497 seeks the preservation of a construct of marriage in which

female fidelity is enforced by the letter of the law and by the coercive authority of

the state. Such a conception goes against the spirit of the rights-based

jurisprudence of this Court, which seeks to protect the dignity of an individual and

her “intimate personal choices”. It cannot be held that these rights cease to exist

once the woman enters into a marriage. 56 The identity of the woman must be as an ‘individual in her own right’. In

that sense, her identity does not get submerged as a result of her marriage.

Section 497 lays down the norm that the identity of a married woman is but as

the wife of her spouse. Underlying the norm is a notion of control over and

subjugation of the woman. Such notions cannot withstand scrutiny under a liberal 66 PART G

constitution. Chief Justice Dipak Misra in Navtej has drawn on the

interrelationship between ‘identity’ and ‘autonomy’: 57 It would be useful to refer to decisions of this Court which have

emphasised on the freedoms of individuals with respect to choices in

relationships. In Navtej, Chief Justice Misra highlighted the indignity suffered by

135 Ibid. at page 484 67 PART G

an individual when “acts within their personal sphere” are criminalised on the

basis of regressive social attitudes: 136 Ibid. at page 413 69 PART G

59 In criminalizing adultery, the legislature has imposed its imprimatur on the

control by a man over the sexuality of his spouse. In doing that, the statutory

provision fails to meet the touchstone of Article 21. Section 497 deprives a

woman of her autonomy, dignity and privacy. It compounds the encroachment on

her right to life and personal liberty by adopting a notion of marriage which

subverts true equality. Equality is subverted by lending the sanctions of the penal

law to a gender biased approach to the relationship of a man and a woman. The

statute confounds paternalism as an instrument for protecting marital stability. It

defines the sanctity of marriage in terms of a hierarchical ordering which is

skewed against the woman. The law gives unequal voices to partners in a

relationship. This judgment has dwelt on the importance of sexual autonomy as a value which

is integral to life and personal liberty under Article 21. Individuals in a

relationship, whether within or outside marriage, have a legitimate expectation

that each will provide to the other the same element of companionship and

respect for choices. Respect for sexual autonomy, it must be emphasized is

founded on the equality between spouses and partners and the recognition by

each of them of the dignity of the other. Control over sexuality attaches to the

human element in each individual. Marriage – whether it be a sacrament or

contract – does not result in ceding of the autonomy of one spouse to another. 70 PART G

60 Recognition of sexual autonomy as inhering in each individual and of the

elements of privacy and dignity have a bearing on the role of the state in

regulating the conditions and consequences of marital relationships. There is a

fundamental reason which militates against criminalization of adultery. Its

genesis lies in the fact that criminalizing an act is not a valid constitutional

response to a sexual relationship outside the fold of marriage. Adultery in the

course of a subsisting marital relationship may, and very often does question the

commitment of the spouse to the relationship. In many cases, a sexual

relationship of one of the spouses outside of the marriage may lead to the end of

the marital relationship. But in other cases, such a relationship may not be the

cause but the consequence of a pre-existing disruption of the marital tie. All too

often, spouses who have drifted apart irrevocably may be compelled for reasons

personal to them to continue with the veneer of a marriage which has ended for

all intents and purposes. The interminably long delay of the law in the resolution

of matrimonial conflicts is an aspect which cannot be ignored. The realities of

human existence are too complex to place them in closed categories of right and

wrong and to subject all that is considered wrong with the sanctions of penal law.

Just as all conduct which is not criminal may not necessarily be ethically just, all

conduct which is inappropriate does not justify being elevated to a criminal

wrongdoing. 61 The state undoubtedly has a legitimate interest in regulating many aspects

of marriage. That is the foundation on which the state does regulate rights, 71 PART G

entitlements and duties, primarily bearing on its civil nature. Breach by one of the

spouses of a legal norm may constitute a ground for dissolution or annulment.

When the state enacts and enforces such legislation, it does so on the postulate

that marriage as a social institution has a significant bearing on the social fabric.

But in doing so, the state is equally governed by the norms of a liberal

Constitution which emphasise dignity, equality and liberty as its cardinal values.

The legitimate aims of the state may, it must be recognized, extend to imposing

penal sanctions for certain acts within the framework of marriage. Physical and

emotional abuse and domestic violence are illustrations of the need for legislative

intervention. The Indian state has legitimately intervened in other situations such

as by enacting anti dowry legislation or by creating offences dealing with the

harassment of women for dowry within a marital relationship. The reason why

this constitutes a legitimate recourse to the sovereign authority of the state to

criminalize conduct is because the acts which the state proscribes are

deleterious to human dignity. In criminalizing certain types of wrongdoing against

women, the state intervenes to protect the fundamental rights of every woman to

live with dignity. Consequently, it is important to underscore that this judgment

does not question the authority and even the duty of the state to protect the

fundamental rights of women from being trampled upon in unequal societal

structures. Adultery as an offence does not fit that paradigm. In criminalizing

certain acts, Section 497 has proceeded on a hypothesis which is deeply

offensive to the dignity of women. It is grounded in paternalism, solicitous of

patriarchal values and subjugates the woman to a position where the law 72 PART H

disregards her sexuality. The sexuality of a woman is part of her inviolable core.

Neither the state nor the institution of marriage can disparage it. By reducing the

woman to the status of a victim and ignoring her needs, the provision penalizing

adultery disregards something which is basic to human identity. Sexuality is a

definitive expression of identity. Autonomy over one’s sexuality has been central

to human urges down through the ages. It has a constitutional foundation as

intrinsic to autonomy. It is in this view of the matter that we have concluded that

Section 497 is violative of the fundamental rights to equality and liberty as

indeed, the right to pursue a meaningful life within the fold of Articles 14 and 21. 62 The hallmark of a truly transformative Constitution is that it promotes and

engenders societal change. To consider a free citizen as the property of another

is an anathema to the ideal of dignity. Section 497 denies the individual identity

of a married woman, based on age-old societal stereotypes which characterised

women as the property of their spouse. It is the duty of this Court to break these

stereotypes and promote a society which regards women as equal citizens in all

spheres of life- irrespective of whether these spheres may be regarded as ‘public’

or ‘private’. transformative vision, the text of the Constitution has, time and again, been

interpreted to challenge hegemonic structures of power and secure the values of 73 PART H

dignity and equality for its citizens. One of the most significant of the battles for

equal citizenship in the country has been fought by women. Feminists have

overcome seemingly insurmountable barriers to ensure a more egalitarian

existence for future generations. However, the quest for equality continues.

While there has been a considerable degree of reform in the formal legal system,

there is an aspect of women’s lives where their subordination has historically

been considered beyond reproach or remedy. That aspect is the family. Marriage

is a significant social institution where this subordination is pronounced, with

entrenched structures of patriarchy and romantic paternalism shackling women

into a less than equal existence. 64 The law on adultery, conceived in Victorian morality, considers a married

woman the possession of her husband: a passive entity, bereft of agency to

determine her course of life. The provision seeks to only redress perceived harm

caused to the husband. This notion is grounded in stereotypes about permissible

actions in a marriage and the passivity of women. Fidelity is only expected of the

female spouse. This anachronistic conception of both, a woman who has entered

into marriage as well as the institution of marriage itself, is antithetical to

constitutional values of equality, dignity and autonomy.

In enforcing the fundamental right to equality, this Court has evolved a test of

manifest arbitrariness to be employed as a check against state action or

legislation which has elements of caprice, irrationality or lacks an adequate 74 PART H

determining principle. The principle on which Section 497 rests is the

preservation of the sexual exclusivity of a married woman – for the benefit of her

husband, the owner of her sexuality. Significantly, the criminal provision exempts

from sanction if the sexual act was with the consent and connivance of the

husband. The patriarchal underpinnings of Section 497 render the provision

manifestly arbitrary. 65 The constitutional guarantee of equality rings hollow when eviscerated of

its substantive content. To construe Section 497 in a vacuum (as did Sowmithri

Vishnu) or in formalistic terms (as did Revathi) is a refusal to recognise and

address the subjugation that women have suffered as a consequence of the

patriarchal order. Section 497 is a denial of substantive equality in that it re-

inforces the notion that women are unequal participants in a marriage; incapable

of freely consenting to a sexual act in a legal order which regards them as the

sexual property of their spouse. 66 This Court has recognised sexual privacy as a natural right, protected

under the Constitution. To shackle the sexual freedom of a woman and allow the

criminalization of consensual relationships is a denial of this right. Section 497

denudes a married woman of her agency and identity, employing the force of law

to preserve a patriarchal conception of marriage which is at odds with

constitutional morality: 67 Criminal law must be in consonance with constitutional morality. The law

on adultery enforces a construct of marriage where one partner is to cede her

sexual autonomy to the other. Being antithetical to the constitutional guarantees

of liberty, dignity and equality, Section 497 does not pass constitutional muster.

We hold and declare that: 137Nivedita Menon, Seeing like a Feminist, Zubaan Books (2012) at page 135; quoting Archana Verma, Stree
 Vimarsh Ke Mahotsav (2010) 76 PART H 2) Section 497 is based on gender stereotypes about the role of women and

 violates the non-discrimination principle embodied in Article 15 of the

 Constitution; 3) Section 497 is a denial of the constitutional guarantees of dignity, liberty,

 privacy and sexual autonomy which are intrinsic to Article 21 of the

 Constitution; and 4) Section 497 is unconstitutional. The decisions in Sowmithri Vishnu and Revathi are overruled. …..…..….............................................J
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

New Delhi; September 27, 2018. 1. The present Writ Petition has been filed to challenge the

 constitutional validity of Section 497 of the Indian Penal

 Code (hereinafter referred to as I.P.C .) which makes

 „adultery‟ a criminal offence, and prescribes a

 punishment of imprisonment upto five years and fine.

 Section 497 reads as under: 2. The Petitioner has also challenged Section 198(2) of the

 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (hereinafter referred to

 as “ Cr.P.C ”). Section 198(2) reads as under: 3. The word „adultery‟1 derives its origin from the French

 word „avoutre‘, which has evolved from the Latin verb

 „adulterium‘ which means “to corrupt.” The concept of a

 wife corrupting the marital bond with her husband by

1 The New international Webster‟s Comprehensive Dictionary of the English Language,
 Deluxe Encyclopedic Edition, Trident Press International (1996 Edn.) at page 21. 2 having a relationship outside the marriage, was termed

 as „adultery‟. This definition of adultery emanated from the historical

 context of Victorian morality, where a woman considered

 to be the „property‟ of her husband; and the offence was

 committed only by the adulterous man. The adulterous

 woman could not be proceeded against as an „abettor‟,

 even though the relationship was consensual. 4. THE DOCTRINE OF COVERTURE

 Adultery, as an offence, was not a crime under

 Common Law, in England. It was punishable by the

 ecclesiastical courts which exercised jurisdiction over

 sacramental matters that included marriage, separation,

 legitimacy, succession to personal property, etc.2

 In England, coverture determined the rights of married

 women, under Common Law. A „feme sole‘ transformed

 into a „feme covert‘ after marriage. „Feme covert‘ was

 based on the doctrine of „Unity of Persons‟ – i.e. the

 husband and wife were a single legal identity. This was

2 Outhwaite, R.B. (2007). The Rise and Fall of the English Ecclesiastical Courts, 1500–1860.
 Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press 3 based on notions of biblical morality that a husband and

 wife were „one in flesh and blood‟. The effect of „coverture‟

 was that a married woman‟s legal rights were subsumed

 by that of her husband. A married woman could not own

 property, execute legal documents, enter into a contract,

 or obtain an education against her husband's wishes, or

 retain a salary for herself.3

 The principle of „coverture‟ was described in William

 Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England as

 follows:4

 ― By marriage, the husband and wife
 are one person in law: that is, the very
 being or legal existence of the woman is
 suspended during the marriage, or at
 least is incorporated and consolidated
 into that of the husband: under whose
 wing, protection, and cover, she
 performs everything; and is therefore
 called in our law-French a feme-covert; is said to be covert-baron, or under the
 protection and influence of her
 husband, her baron, or lord; and her
 condition during her marriage is called
 her coverture. Upon this principle, of a
 union of person in husband and wife,
 depend almost all the legal rights,
 duties, and disabilities, that either of
 them acquires by the marriage. I speak
3 Fernandez, Angela “Tapping Reeve, Nathan Dane, and James Kent: Three Fading
 Federalists on Marital Unity.” Married Women and the Law: Coverture in England and the
 Common Law World, edited by Tim Stretton and Krista J. Kesselring, McGill-Queen's
 University Press, 2013, pp. 192–216. 4 Blackstone‘s Commentaries on the Laws of England, Books III & IV (8th Edn.), 1778 4 not at present of the rights of property,
 but of such as are merely personal. For
 this reason, a man cannot grant
 anything to his wife, or enter into
 covenant with her: for the grant would
 be to suppose her separate existence; and to covenant with her, would be only
 to covenant with himself: and therefore
 it is also generally true, that all
 contracts made between husband and
 wife, when single, are voided by the
 intermarriage.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

 On this basis, a wife did not have an individual legal

 liability for her misdeeds, since it was legally assumed

 that she was acting under the orders of her husband, and

 generally a husband and wife were not allowed to testify

 either for, or against each other. Medieval legal treatises, such as the Bracton5,

 described the nature of „coverture‟ and its impact on

 married women's legal actions. Bracton (supra) states

 that husbands wielded power over their wives, being their

 „rulers‟ and „custodians of their property‟. The institution

 of marriage came under the jurisdiction of ecclesiastical

 courts. It made wives live in the shadow of their

 husbands, virtually „invisible‟ to the law.

5 Bracton: De Legibus Et Consuetudinibus Angliæ (Bracton on the Laws and Customs of
 England attributed to Henry of Bratton, c. 1210-1268) Vol III, pg. 115
 Available at http://bracton.law.harvard.edu/index.html 5 The principle of coverture subsisted throughout the

 marriage of the couple. It was not possible to obtain a

 divorce through civil courts, which refused to invade into

 the jurisdiction of the church. Adultery was the only

 ground available to obtain divorce. The origin of adultery under Common Law was

 discussed in the English case Pritchard v. Pritchard and

 Sims6 , wherein it was held that: 6 [1966] 3 All E.R. 601 6 In the Victorian Era7, women were denied the exercise

 of basic rights and liberties, and had little autonomy over

 their choices. Their status was pari materia with that of

 land, cattle and crop; forming a part of the „estate‟ of their

 fathers as daughters prior to marriage, and as the „estate‟

 of their husband post-marriage.8

 Lord Wilson in his Speech titled “Out of his shadow: 7 1807 – 1901 A.D.
8 Margot Finn (1996). Women, Consumption and Coverture in England, c. 1760–1860.
 The Historical Journal, 39, pp 703-722
9 The High Sheriff of Oxfordshire‟s Annual Law Lecture given by Lord Wilson on 9 October 2012 Available at: https://www.supremecourt.uk/docs/speech-121009.pdf 7 as his authorised agent. So the
 shopkeeper could sue him for the price
 if the wife had obtained the goods on
 credit. 9. In the seventeenth century there was
 a development in the law relating to this
 so-called agency of necessity. It was an
 attempt to serve the needs of wives
 whose husbands had deserted them. The law began to say that, if a deserted
 wife had not committed adultery, she
 could buy from the shopkeeper all such
 goods as were necessary for her and,
 even if (as was highly likely) the
 husband had not authorised her to buy
 them, he was liable to pay the
 shopkeeper for them. But the
 shopkeeper had a problem. How was
 he to know whether the wife at the
 counter had been deserted and had not
 committed adultery? Sometimes a
 husband even placed a notice in the
 local newspaper to the effect, true or
 untrue, that his wife had deserted him
 or had committed adultery and that
 accordingly he would not be liable to
 pay for her purchase of necessaries.….‖

 The remnants of „coverture‟ sowed the seeds for the

introduction of „Criminal Conversation‟ as an actionable

tort by a husband against his wife‟s paramour in

England. Criminal Conversation as a tort, gave a married man

the right to claim damages against the man who had

entered into a sexual relationship with his wife. The 8 consent of the wife to the relationship, did not affect the

 entitlement of her husband to sue. The legal position of matrimonial wrongs underwent a

 significant change with the passing of the Matrimonial

 Causes Act, 1857 in England.10 Section 59 of this Act

 abolished the Common Law action for “criminal

 conversation”.11 Section 33 empowered the Courts to

 award damages to the husband of the paramour for

 adultery.12 The claim for damages for adultery was to be

 tried on the same principles, and in the same manner, as

 actions for „criminal conversation‟ which were formerly

 tried at Common Law.13

 The status of the wife, however, even after the passing

 of the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1857 remained as

10 Matrimonial Causes Act 1857; 1857 (20 & 21 Vict.) C. 85
11 LIX. No Action for Criminal Conversation: 12 XXXIII. Husband may claim Damages from Adulterers: 13 Id. 9 „property of the husband‟, since women had no right to

 sue either their adulterous husband or his paramour.

 Gender equality between the spouses came to be

 recognised in some measure in England, with the passing

 of the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1923 which made

 „adultery‟ a ground for divorce, available to both spouses,

 instead of only the husband of the adultrous wife. The

 right of the husband to claim damages from his wife‟s

 paramour came to be abolished by The Law Reform

 (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act of 1970 on January 1,

 1971. In England, adultery has always been a civil wrong,

 and not a penal offence. 5. SECTION 497 – HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

 5.1. The Indo-Brahmanic traditions prevalent in India

 mandated the chastity of a woman to be regarded

 as her prime virtue, to be closely guarded to

 ensure the purity of the male bloodline. The

 objective was not only to protect the bodily

 integrity of the woman, but to ensure that the

 husband retains control over her sexuality, 10 confirming her „purity‟ in order to ensure the

 purity of his own bloodline.14

 5.2. The first draft of the I.P.C . released by the Law

 Commission of India in 1837 did not include

 “adultery” as an offence. Lord Macaulay was of

 the view that adultery or marital infidelity was a

 private wrong between the parties, and not a

 criminal offence.15

 The views of Lord Macaulay were, however,

 overruled by the other members of the Law

 Commission, who were of the opinion that the

 existing remedy for „adultery‟ under Common Law

 would be insufficient for the „poor natives‟, who

 would have no recourse against the paramour of

 their wife.16

 5.3. The debate that took place in order to determine

 whether „adultery‟ should be a criminal offence in

 India was recorded in „Note Q‟ of „A Penal Code

14 Uma Chakravarti, Gendering Caste Through a Feminist Lens, STREE Publications (2003)
 at page 71. 15 156th Report on the Indian Penal Code (Vol. I), Law Commission of India at para 9.43 at

 page 169
 Available at: http://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/101-169/Report156Vol1.pdf
16 A Penal Code prepared by The Indian Law Commissioners, (1838), The Second Report on

 the Indian Penal Code 11 prepared by the Indian Law Commissioners‘ 17. The existing laws18 for the punishment of

 adultery were considered to be altogether

 inefficacious for preventing the injured husband

 from taking matters into his own hands. The Law Commissioners considered that by

 not treating „adultery‟ as a criminal offence, it

 may give sanction to immorality. The Report19

 states: 17 A Penal Code prepared by The Indian Law Commissioners, (1838), Notes of Lord Thomas
 Babington Macaulay, Note Q
18 The laws governing adultery in the Colonial areas were laid down in Regulation XVII of

 1817, and Regulation VII of 1819; the Law Commissioners observed that the strict
 evidentiary and procedural requirements, deter the people from seeking redress.
19 A Penal Code prepared by The Indian Law Commissioners, (1838), The Second Report on

 the Indian Penal Code 12 more tenderness than forgery or
 perjury. …That some classes of the natives
 of India disapprove of the lenity
 with which adultery is now
 punished we fully believe, but this
 in our opinion is a strong
 argument against punishing
 adultery at all. There are only two
 courses which in our opinion can
 properly be followed with respect
 to this and other great
 immoralities. They ought to be
 punished very severely, or they
 ought not to be punished at all. The circumstance that they are left
 altogether unpunished does not
 prove that the Legislature does not
 regard them with disapprobation. But when they are made
 punishable the degree of severity
 of the punishment will always be
 considered as indicating the
 degree of disapprobation with
 which the Legislature regards
 them. We have no doubt that the
 natives would be far less shocked
 by the total silence of the penal
 law touching adultery than by
 seeing an adulterer sent to prison
 for a few months while a coiner is
 imprisoned for fourteen years.‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

 The Law Commissioners in their Report (supra)

further stated: 20 A Penal Code prepared by The Indian Law Commissioners, (1838), The Second Report on
 the Indian Penal Code 18 Neither the immorality of the act, nor
its injurious consequences on the
happiness of females, and very
frequently on the peace of society and
the lives of its members, can be denied. The reason then why it should go
unpunished does not seem very clear. It
is emphatically one of that nature to
which I have just referred, in which the
resentment of the injured party will
prompt him to take vengeance into his
own hands, and commit a greater
offence, if the laws of his country refuse
to punish the lesser. It is the nature of
man, and no legislation can alter it, to
protect himself where the laws refuse
their aid; very frequently where they do
not; but where they will not give
protection against injury, it is in vain
that they attempt to punish him who
supplies by his own energy their
remissness. Where the law refuses to
punish this offence, the injured party
will do it for himself, he will break the
public peace, and commit the greatest of
all crimes, and he is rarely or never
punished. Assaults, duels,
assassinations, poisonings, will be the
consequence. They cannot be
prevented; but, perhaps, by giving the
aid of the law to punish the offence
which they are intended to avenge, they
will be less frequent; and it will, by
taking away the pretext for the
atrocious acts, in a great measure
insure the infliction of the punishment
they deserve. It is for these reasons
that the offence of adultery forms a
chapter of this title.‖

 Having given mature consideration to
the subject, we have, after some 19 hesitation, come to the conclusion that it
 is not advisable to exclude this offence
 from the Code. We think the reasons for
 continuing to treat it as a subject for the
 cognizance of the criminal courts
 preponderate.…. …While we think that the offence of
 adultery ought not to be omitted from
 the Code, we would limit its cognizance
 to adultery committed with a married
 woman, and considering that there is
 much weight in the last remark in Note
 Q, regarding the condition of the women
 of this country, in deference to it we
 would render the male offender alone
 liable to punishment. We would,
 however, put the parties accused of
 adultery on trial together, and empower
 the Court, in the event of their
 conviction, to pronounce a decree of
 divorce against the guilty woman, if the
 husband sues for it, at the same time
 that her paramour is sentenced to
 punishment by imprisonment or fine. By
 Mr. Livingstone‘s Code, the woman
 forfeits her ‗matrimonial gains‘, but is
 not liable to other punishment. We would adopt Colonel Sleeman‘s
 suggestion as to the punishment of the
 male offender, limiting it to
 imprisonment not exceeding five years,
 instead of seven years allowed at
 present, and sanctioning the imposition
 of a fine payable to the husband as an
 alternative, or in addition.‖21
 (Emphasis supplied)

21 A Penal Code prepared by The Indian Law Commissioners, (1838), The Second Report on
 the Indian Penal Code 20 5.5. It was in this backdrop that Section 497 came to

 be included in the I.P.C. 6. THE QUEST FOR REFORM

 6.1. In June 1971, the 42nd Report of the Law

 Commission of India22 analysed various

 provisions of the I.P.C . and made several

 important recommendations. With respect to the

 offence of „adultery‟, the Law Commission

 recommended that the adulterous woman must

 be made equally liable for prosecution, and the

 punishment be reduced from 5 years to 2 years.

 This was however, not given effect to. 6.2. In August 1997, the Law Commission of India in

 its 156th Report23 noted that the offence of

 adultery under Section 497 is very limited in

 scope in comparison to the misconduct of

 adultery in divorce (civil proceedings). The section

 confers only upon the husband the right to

22 42nd Report on the Indian Penal Code , Law Commission of India
 Available at: http://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/1-50/report42.pdf
23 156th Report on the Indian Penal Code (Vol. I), Law Commission of India, pages 169 - 172

 Available at: http://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/101-169/Report156Vol1.pdf 21 prosecute the adulterous male, but does not

 confer any right on the aggrieved wife to

 prosecute her adultererous husband. It was

 recommended to introduce an amendment to

 incorporate the concept of equality between sexes

 in marriage vis-à-vis the offence of adultery. The

 proposed change was to reflect the

 transformation of women‟s status in Indian

 society. 6.3. In March 2003, the Malimath Committee on

 Reforms of Criminal Justice System24, was

 constituted by the Government of India, which

 considered comprehensive measures for

 revamping the Criminal Justice System. The

 Malimath Committee made the following

 recommendation with respect to “Adultery”: The object of this Section is to
 preserve the sanctity of the
 marriage. The society abhors
 marital infidelity. Therefore, there
 is no good reason for not meting
 out similar treatment to wife who
 has sexual intercourse with a
 married man. 16.3.2 The Committee therefore
 suggests that Section 497 of the
 I.P.C. should be suitably amended
 to the effect that ―whosoever has
 sexual intercourse with the spouse
 of any other person is guilty of
 adultery……‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

 The recommendations of the Malimath

 Committee on the amendment of Section 497

 were referred to the Law Commission of India,

 which took up the matter for study and

 examination. The same is pending consideration. 7. CONTEMPORARY INTERNATIONAL JURISPRUDENCE

 Before addressing the issue of the constitutional

 validity of Section 497 I.P.C., it would be of interest to

 review how „adultery‟ is treated in various jurisdictions

 around the world. Adultery has been defined differently across various

 jurisdictions. For instance, adultery charges may require

 the adulterous relationship to be “open and notorious,”25

 or be more than a single act of infidelity, or require

 cohabitation between the adulterer and the adulteress.

 Such a definition would require a finding on the degree of

 infidelity.26 In other instances, the spouses may also be

 punishable for adultery. Such a provision raises a doubt

 as to how that may secure the relationship between the

 spouses and the institution of marriage. Another

 variation, in some jurisdictions is that cognizance of the

 offence of adultery is taken only at the instance of the

 State, and its enforcement is generally a rarity.

 7.1. Various legal systems have found adulterous

 conduct sufficiently injurious to justify some form

 of criminal sanction. Such conduct is one, which

 the society is not only unwilling to approve, but

 also attaches a criminal label to it.  United States of America

25 Illinois Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/11-35, Adultery
“(a) A person commits adultery when he or she has sexual intercourse with another not his or
her spouse, if the behavior is open and notorious,…”
26 Martin Siegel, For Better or for Worse: Adultery, Crime & the Constitution, 30 Journal Of

Family Law 45, 51-52 (1991) 24 In the United States of America, 17 out of 50

 States continue to treat „adultery‟ as a criminal

 offence under the State law.27 The

 characterization of the offence differs from State

 to State. In the case of Oliverson v. West Valley City28,

 the constitutionality of the Utah adultery

 statute29 was challenged. It was contended that

 the statute offends the right to privacy and

 violates substantive due process of law under the

 U.S. Constitution. The U.S. Court held that

 adultery is a transgression against the

 relationship of marriage which the law endeavors

 to protect. The State of Utah had an interest in

 preventing adultery. Whether to use criminal

 sanction was considered a matter particularly

 within the ambit of the legislature. Given the

 special interest of the State, it was considered

 rational to classify adultery as a crime. 27 Abhinav Sekhri, The Good, The Bad, and The Adulterous: Criminal Law and Adultery in
 India, 10 Socio Legal Review 47 (2014)
28 875 F. Supp. 1465
29 Utah Code Ann. 76-7-103, ―(1) A married person commits adultery when he voluntarily has

 sexual intercourse with a person other than his spouse. (2) Adultery is a class B
 misdemeanour.‖ 25 A similar provision exists in the State of New

 York, wherein adultery is treated as a Class B

 misdemeanor.30

 By way of contrast, in the State of North

 Carolina, it was held in the Judgment of Hobbs v.

 Smith31, that adultery should not be treated as a

 criminal offence. The Superior Court of North

 Carolina, relied on the judgment of the U.S.

 Supreme Court, in Lawrence v. Texas32 wherein it

 was recognized that the right to liberty provides

 substantial protection to consenting adults with

 respect to decisions regarding their private sexual

 conduct. The decision of an individual to commit

 adultery is a personal decision, which is

 sufficiently similar to other personal choices

 regarding marriage, family, procreation,

 contraception, and sexuality, which fall within

 the area of privacy. Following this reasoning in

 Lawrence, the Superior Court of the State of

30 New York Penal Laws, Article 255.17-Adultery, “A person is guilty of adultery when he
 engages in sexual intercourse with another person at a time when he has a living spouse, or
 the other person has a living spouse. Adultery is a class B misdemeanour.”
31 No. 15 CVS 5646 (2017) [Superior Court of North Carolina)
32 539 US 558 (2003) 26 North Carolina held that the State Law

 criminalizing adultery violated the substantive

 due process, and the right to liberty under the

 Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution,

 and the provision criminalizing adultery was

 declared unconstitutional.  Canada

 In Canada, the Criminal Code of Canada under

 Section 172 imposes criminal sanctions for

 adulterous conduct. This provision was

 introduced in 191833, and continues to remain on

 the Criminal Code. The Criminal Code of Canada prohibits

 endangering the morals of children in a home

 where one “participates in adultery or sexual

 immorality or indulges in habitual drunkenness

 or any other form of vice.”

33 Criminal Code of Canada, 1985, Section 172, “(1) Every one who, in the home of a child,
 participates in adultery or sexual immorality or indulges in habitual drunkenness or any
 other form of vice, and thereby endangers the morals of the child or renders the home an
 unfit place for the child to be in, is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment
 for a term not exceeding two years. (2) For the purposes of this section, ―child‖ means a person who is or appears to be under
 the age of eighteen years.‖ 27 Furthermore, Canada has a provision for

 granting divorce in cases of “breakdown of

 marriages”, and adultery is a ground for

 establishing the same.34

  Malaysia

 In Malaysia, adultery is punishable as a crime

 under the Islamic Laws. However, the Law Reform

 (Marriage and Divorce) Act, 1976 made it a civil

 wrong, for all non-Muslims. Similar to the

 position in Canada, this Act makes adultery a

 ground for granting divorce, as it is a proof of

 “Breakdown of Marriage”.35 Interestingly though,

 the Act also allows either spouse, to be an

 aggrieved party and claim damages from the

 adulterer or adulteress.36

34 Divorce Act, 1968, ― Section 8 (1) A court of competent jurisdiction may, on application by
 either or both spouses, grant a divorce to the spouse or spouses on the ground that there
 has been a breakdown of their marriage. (2) Breakdown of a marriage is established only if: (a) ….. (b) the spouse against whom the divorce proceeding is brought has, since celebration of the
 marriage, (i) committed adultery, or …..‖
35 S. 54(1)(a), Law Reform (Marriage and Divorce) Act, 1976. [Malaysia] states,

 “54. (1) In its inquiry into the facts and circumstances alleged as causing or leading to the
 breakdown of the marriage, the court shall have regard to one or more of the following facts,
 that is to say: 36 S. 58, Law Reform (Marriage and Divorce) Act, 1976. [Malaysia] states, 28  Japan

 In Japan, the provision for adultery was

 somewhat similar to the present Section 497 of

 I.P.C.; it punished the woman and the adulterer

 only on the basis of the complaint filed by the

 husband. In case the act of adultery was

 committed with the consent of the husband, there

 would be no valid demand for prosecution of the

 offence37. This provision has since been deleted.38

 Adultery is now only a ground for divorce in

 Japan under the Civil Code.39

  South Africa

 ―58. (1) On a petition for divorce in which adultery is alleged, or in the answer of a party to
 the marriage praying for divorce and alleging adultery, the party shall make the alleged
 adulterer or adulteress a co-respondent, unless excused by the court on special grounds
 from doing so. (2) A petition under subsection (1) may include a prayer that the co-respondent be
 condemned in damages in respect of the alleged adultery.
 (3) Where damages have been claimed against a co-respondent— (a) if, after the close of the
 evidence for the petitioner, the court is of the opinion that there is not sufficient evidence
 against the co-respondent to justify requiring him or her to reply, the co-respondent shall be
 discharged from the proceedings; or (b) if, at the conclusion of the hearing, the court is
 satisfied that adultery between the respondent and co-respondent has been proved, the
 court may award the petitioner such damages as it may think fit, but so that the award
 shall not include any exemplary or punitive element.‖
37 S. 183, Penal Code, 1907 [Japan], “Whoever commits adultery with a married woman will

 be punished by prison upto two years. The same applies to the other party of the adultery.
 These offences are only prosecuted on demand of the husband. If the husband has allowed
 the Adultery, his demand is not valid.‖ [ as translated by Karl-Friedrich Lenz, in History of
 Law in Japan since 1868, ed. Wilhelm Rohl, published by Brill, 2005, at page 623]
38 H. Meyers, ―Revision of Criminal Code of Japan‖ Washington Law Review & State Bar

Journal, Vol. 25, (1950) at pp. 104-134
39 Article 770, Civil Code, 1896. [Japan], ―Article 770 (1) Only in the cases stated

 in the following items may either husband or wife file a suit for divorce: (i) if a spouse has
 committed an act of unchastity; ….‖ 29 In South Africa, in the case of DE v. RH40 The

 Constitutional Court of South Africa struck down

 adultery as a ground for seeking compensation by

 the aggrieved persons. The Court relied on an

 earlier judgment of Green v. Fitzgerald41 wherein

 it was held that the offence of adultery has fallen

 in disuse, and ―has ceased to be regarded as a

 crime‖.42 The Court noted that even though

 adultery was of frequent occurrence in South

 Africa, and the reports of divorce cases were daily

 published in the newspapers in South Africa, the

 authorities took no notice of the offence.  Turkey

 In Turkey, the decision of the Constitutional

 Court of Turkey from 199643 is another instance

 where the Court struck down the provision of

 adultery as a criminal offence from the Turkish

 Penal Code of 1926. The Court noted that the

 provision was violative of the Right to Equality, as

40 RH v. DE (594/2013) [2014] ZASCA 133 (25 September 2014)
411914 AD 88
42 Id. 43 Anayasa Mahkemesi, 1996/15; 1996/34 (Sept. 23, 1996)
 See also, Anayasa Mahakemsi, 1998/3; 1998/28 (June 23, 1998) and Anayasa
 Mahakemsi, 1997/45. 1998/48 (July 16, 1998) 30 guaranteed by the Turkish Constitution since it

 treated men and women differently for the same

 act.  South Korea

 In South Korea, adultery as a criminal offence

 was struck down by the Constitutional Court of

 Korea in, what is popularly known as, the

 Adultery Case of February 26, 201544. The

 Constitutional Court of Korea held that Article

 241 , which provided for the offence of adultery,

 was unconstitutional as it violated Article 10 of

 the Constitution, which promotes the right to

 personality, the right to pursue happiness, and

 the right to self-determination. The right to self-

 determination connotes the right to sexual self-

 determination that is the freedom to choose

 sexual activities and partners. Article 241 was

 considered to restrict the right to privacy

 protected under Article 17 of the Constitution

 since it restricts activities arising out of sexual

44 Adultery Case, 27-1 (A) KCCR 20, February 26, 2015 31 life belonging to the intimate private domain.

Even though the provision had a legitimate object

to preserve marital fidelity between spouses, and

monogamy, the court struck it down as the

provision failed to achieve the “appropriateness of

means and least restrictiveness” The Court held

as follows: 45 1954 SCR 930 34 In Yusuf Aziz (supra), the Court noted that

 both Articles 14 and 15 read together validated

 Section 497. 8.2. Later, in Sowmithri Vishnu v. Union of India &

 Anr.46 , a three-judge bench of this Court

 addressed a challenge to Section 497 as being

 unreasonable and arbitrary in the classification

 made between men and women, unjustifiably

 denied women the right to prosecute her husband

 under Section 497. It was contended that Section 497 conferred a

 right only upon the husband of the adulterous

 woman to prosecute the adulterer; however, no

 such right was bestowed upon the wife of an

 adulterous man. The petitioners therein

 submitted that Section 497 was a flagrant

 violation of gender discrimination against women.

 The Court opined that the challenge had no legal

 basis to rest upon. The Court observed that the

 argument really centred on the definition, which

46 (1985) Supp SCC 137 35 was required to be re-cast to punish both the

male and female offender for the offence of

adultery. Commission of India, the Court noted that there

were two opinions on the desirability of retaining

Section 497. However it concluded by stating that

Section 497 could not be struck down on the

ground that it would be desirable to delete it from

the statute books. The Court repelled the plea on the ground that

it is commonly accepted that it is the man who is

the „seducer‟, and not the woman. The Court

recognized that this position may have undergone

some change over the years, but it is for the

legislature to consider whether Section 497

should be amended appropriately so as to take

note of the „transformation‟ which the society has

undergone. 36 8.3. In V. Revathi v. Union of India47 , a two-judge

 bench of this court upheld the constitutional

 validity of Section 497 , I.P.C. and Section 198(2) of the Cr.P.C. The petitioner contended that

 whether or not the law permitted a husband to

 prosecute his disloyal wife, a wife cannot be

 lawfully disabled from prosecuting her disloyal

 husband. Section 198(2) Cr.P.C. operates as a

 fetter on the wife in prosecuting her adulterous

 husband. Hence, the relevant provision is

 unconstitutional on the ground of obnoxious

 discrimination. This Court held that Section 497 I.P.C. and Section 198(2) Cr.P.C. together form a legislative

 package. In essence, the former being

 substantive, and the latter being largely

 procedural. Women, under these provisions,

 neither have the right to prosecute, as in case of a

 wife whose husband has an adulterous

47 (1988) 2 SCC 72 37 relationship with another woman; nor can they be

 prosecuted as the pari delicto. 8.4. The view taken by the two-judge bench in Revathi (supra), that the absence of the right of the wife of

 an adulterous husband to sue him, or his

 paramour, was well-balanced by the inability of

 the husband to prosecute his adulterous wife for

 adultery, cannot be sustained. The wife‟s inability

 to prosecute her husband and his paramour,

 should be equated with the husband‟s ability to

 prosecute his wife‟s paramour. 9. In the present case, the constitutionality of Section 497 is

 assailed by the Petitioners on the specific grounds that

 Section 497 is violative of Articles 14 , 15 and 21. 9.1. Mr. Kaleeswaram Raj learned Counsel appearing

 for the Petitioners and Ms. Meenakshi Arora,

 learned Senior Counsel appearing for the

 Intervenors inter alia submitted that Section 497

 criminalizes adultery based on a classification

 made on sex alone. Such a classification bears no 38 rational nexus with the object sought to be

 achieved and is hence discriminatory. It was further submitted that Section 497

 offends the Article 14 requirement of equal

 treatment before the law and discriminates on the

 basis of marital status. It precludes a woman

 from initiating criminal proceedings. Further, the

 consent of the woman is irrelevant to the offence.

 Reliance was placed in this regard on the

 judgment of this Court in W. Kalyani v. State48 .

 The Petitioners submit that the age-old concept

 of the wife being the property of her husband,

 who can easily fall prey to seduction by another

 man, can no longer be justified as a rational basis

 for the classification made under Section 497.

 An argument was made that the „protection‟

 given to women under Section 497 not only

 highlights her lack of sexual autonomy, but also

 ignores the social repercussions of such an

 offence. 48 (2012) 1 SCC 358 39 The Petitioners have contended that Section

 497 of the I.P.C. is violative of the fundamental

 right to privacy under Article 21 , since the choice

 of a partner with whom she could be intimate,

 falls squarely within the area of autonomy over a

 person‟s sexuality. It was submitted that each

 individual has an unfettered right (whether

 married or not; whether man or woman) to

 engage in sexual intercourse outside his or her

 marital relationship. The right to privacy is an inalienable right,

 closely associated with the innate dignity of an

 individual, and the right to autonomy and self-

 determination to take decisions. Reliance was

 placed on the judgment in Shafin Jahan v. Asokan K.M. & Ors.49 where this Court observed

 that each individual is guaranteed the freedom in

 determining the choice of one‟s partner, and any

 interference by the State in these matters, would

49 2018 SCC Online SC 343 40 have a serious chilling effect on the exercise of

 the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. The Petitioners placed reliance on the

 judgment of K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India50 wherein a nine-judge bench of this Court held

 that the right to make decisions on vital matters

 concerning one‟s life are inviolable aspects of

 human personality. This Court held that: 50 (2017) 10 SCC 1 41 The Petitioners and Intervenors have prayed

 for striking down Section 479 I.P.C. and Section

 198(2) of the Cr.P.C. as being unconstitutional,

 unjust, illegal, arbitrary, and violative of the

 Fundamental Rights of citizens. 9.2. On the other hand, Ms. Pinky Anand, learned

 ASG forcefully submitted that adultery must be

 retained as a criminal offence in the I.P.C . She

 based her argument on the fact that adultery has

 the effect of breaking up the family which is the

 fundamental unit in society. Adultery is

 undoubtedly morally abhorrent in marriage, and

 no less an offence than the offences of battery, or

 assault. By deterring individuals from engaging in

 conduct which is potentially harmful to a marital

 relationship, Section 497 is protecting the

 institution of marriage, and promoting social well-

 being. The Respondents submit that an act which

 outrages the morality of society, and harms its 42 members, ought to be punished as a crime. Adultery falls squarely within this definition. The learned ASG further submitted that

adultery is not an act that merely affects just two

people; it has an impact on the aggrieved spouse,

children, as well as society. Any affront to the

marital bond is an affront to the society at large.

The act of adultery affects the matrimonial rights

of the spouse, and causes substantial mental

injury. Adultery is essentially violence perpetrated by

an outsider, with complete knowledge and

intention, on the family which is the basic unit of

a society. It was argued on behalf of the Union of India

that Section 497 is valid on the ground of

affirmative action. All discrimination in favour of

women is saved by Article 15(3) , and hence were

exempted from punishment. Further, an under-

inclusive definition is not necessarily

discriminatory. The contention that Section 497 43 does not account for instances where the

 husband has sexual relations outside his

 marriage would not render it unconstitutional.

 It was further submitted that the sanctity of

 family life, and the right to marriage are

 fundamental rights comprehended in the right to

 life under Article 21. An outsider who violates and

 injures these rights must be deterred and

 punished in accordance with criminal law. It was finally suggested that if this Court finds

 any part of this Section violative of the

 Constitutional provisions, the Court should read

 down that part, in so far as it is violative of the

 Constitution but retain the provision. DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 10. Section 497 is a pre-constitutional law which was

 enacted in 1860. There would be no presumption of

 constitutionality in a pre-constitutional law (like Section 497) framed by a foreign legislature. The provision would 44 have to be tested on the anvil of Part III of the

 Constitution. 11. Section 497 of the I.P.C. it is placed under Chapter XX

 of “Offences Relating to Marriage”. The provision of Section 497 is replete with anomalies

 and incongruities, such as: iii. Section 497 I.P.C. read with Section 198(2) of

 the Cr.P.C. only empowers the aggrieved

 husband, of a married wife who has entered into

 the adulterous relationship to initiate

 proceedings for the offence of adultery. iv. The act of a married man engaging in sexual

 intercourse with an unmarried or divorced

 woman, does not constitute „adultery‟ under

 Section 497. v. If the adulterous relationship between a man

 and a married woman, takes place with the

 consent and connivance of her husband, it

 would not constitute the offence of adultery.

 The anomalies and inconsistencies in Section 497

 as stated above, would render the provision liable to be

 struck down on the ground of it being arbitrary and

 discriminatory. 12. The constitutional validity of section 497 has to be

 tested on the anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution. 46 12.1. Any legislation which treats similarly situated

 persons unequally, or discriminates between

 persons on the basis of sex alone, is liable to be

 struck down as being violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution, which form the pillars

 against the vice of arbitrariness and

 discrimination. 12.2. Article 14 forbids class legislation; however, it

 does not forbid reasonable classification. A

 reasonable classification is permissible if two

 conditions are satisfied: ii. The second classification is based on who can

 be prosecuted. It is only the adulterous man who can be

 prosecuted for committing adultery, and not

 the adulterous woman, even though the

 relationship is consensual; the adulterous

 woman is not even considered to be an

 “abettor” to the offence. The aforesaid classifications were based on the

historical context in 1860 when the I.P.C . was

enacted. At that point of time, women had no

rights independent of their husbands, and were

treated as chattel or „property‟ of their husbands.

 Hence, the offence of adultery was treated as

an injury to the husband, since it was considered

to be a „theft‟ of his property, for which he could

proceed to prosecute the offender. The said classification is no longer relevant or

valid, and cannot withstand the test of Article 14 ,

and hence is liable to be struck down on this

ground alone. 49 12.3. A law which deprives women of the right to

 prosecute, is not gender-neutral. Under Section

 497, the wife of the adulterous male, cannot

 prosecute her husband for marital infidelity. This

 provision is therefore ex facie discriminatory

 against women, and violative of Article 14. Section 497 as it stands today, cannot hide in

 the shadows against the discerning light of Article

 14 which irradiates anything which is

 unreasonable, discriminatory, and arbitrary. 13. A law which could have been justified at the time of its

 enactment with the passage of time may become out-

 dated and discriminatory with the evolution of society

 and changed circumstances.53 What may have once been

 a perfectly valid legislation meant to protect women in the

 historical background in which it was framed, with the

 passage of time of over a century and a half, may become

 obsolete and archaic. 53Motor General Traders v. State of Andhra Pradesh , (1984) 1 SCC 222;
 See also Ratan Arya v. State of Tamil Nadu , (1986) 3 SCC 385 50 A provision previously not held to be unconstitutional,

 can be rendered so by later developments in society,

 including gender equality.54 Section 497 of the I.P.C. was framed in the historical

 context that the infidelity of the wife should not be

 punished because of the plight of women in this country

 during the 1860‟s. Women were married while they were

 still children, and often neglected while still young,

 sharing the attention of a husband with several rivals.55

 This situation is not true 155 years after the provision

 was framed. With the passage of time, education,

 development in civil-political rights and socio-economic

 conditions, the situation has undergone a sea change.

 The historical background in which Section 497 was

 framed, is no longer relevant in contemporary society.

 It would be unrealistic to proceed on the basis that

 even in a consensual sexual relationship, a married

 woman, who knowingly and voluntarily enters into a

 sexual relationship with another married man, is a

 „victim‟, and the male offender is the „seducer‟. 54 John Vallamattom v. Union of India , (2003) 6 SCC 611
55 ‗A Penal Code prepared by The Indian Law Commissioners, (1838), Notes of Lord Thomas
 Babington Macaulay, Note Q 51 Section 497 fails to consider both men and women as

 equally autonomous individuals in society. In Anuj Garg v. Hotel Assn. of India,56 this Court held

 that: 56 (2008) 3 SCC 1 52 general. In the last 60 years, women in
 India have gained entry in all spheres
 of public life. They have also been
 representing people at grassroot
 democracy. They are now employed as
 drivers of heavy transport vehicles,
 conductors of service carriages, pilots,
 et. al. ...‖
 (Emphasis supplied)

 The time when wives were invisible to the law, and

 lived in the shadows of their husbands, has long since

 gone by. A legislation that perpetuates such stereo-types

 in relationships, and institutionalises discrimination is a

 clear violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed by

 Part III of the Constitution. There is therefore, no justification for continuance of Section 497 of the I.P.C. as framed in 1860, to remain on

 the statute book. 14. Article 15(3) of the Constitution is an enabling

 provision which permits the State to frame beneficial

 legislation in favour of women and children, to protect

 and uplift this class of citizens. Section 497 is a penal provision for the offence of

 adultery, an act which is committed consensually 53 between two adults who have strayed out of the marital

 bond. Such a provision cannot be considered to be a

 beneficial legislation covered by Article 15(3) of the

 Constitution. The true purpose of affirmative action is to uplift

 women and empower them in socio-economic spheres. A

 legislation which takes away the rights of women to

 prosecute cannot be termed as „beneficial legislation‟.

 This Court in Thota Sesharathamma and Anr. v. Thota

 Manikyamma (Dead) by Lrs . And Ors.57 held that: economic equality of women. It permits special legislation

for special classes. However, Article 15(3) cannot operate

as a cover for exemption from an offence having penal

consequences. A Section which perpetuates oppression of women is

unsustainable in law, and cannot take cover under the

guise of protective discrimination. 15. The Petitioners have contended that the right to

privacy under Article 21 would include the right of two

adults to enter into a sexual relationship outside

marriage. The right to privacy and personal liberty is, however,

not an absolute one; it is subject to reasonable

restrictions when legitimate public interest is involved.

 It is true that the boundaries of personal liberty are

difficult to be identified in black and white; however, such

liberty must accommodate public interest. The freedom to 55 have a consensual sexual relationship outside marriage

 by a married person, does not warrant protection under Article 21. In the context of Article 21 , an invasion of privacy by

 the State must be justified on the basis of a law that is

 reasonable and valid. Such an invasion must meet a

 three-fold requirement as set held in Justice K. S.

 Puttaswamy (Retd.) & Anr. v. UOI & Anr. (supra): (i)

 legality, which postulates the existence of law; (ii) need,

 defined in terms of a legitimate State interest, and (iii)

 proportionality, which ensures a rational nexus between

 the object and the means adopted. Section 497 as it

 stands today, fails to meet the three-fold requirement,

 and must therefore be struck down. 16. The issue remains as to whether „adultery‟ must be

 treated as a penal offence subject to criminal sanctions,

 or marital wrong which is a valid ground for divorce.

 16.1. One view is that family being the fundamental

 unit in society, if the same is disrupted, it would

 impact stability and progress. The State, 56 therefore, has a legitimate public interest in

preserving the institution of marriage. Though adultery may be an act committed in

private by two consenting adults, it is

nevertheless not a victim-less crime. It violates

the sanctity of marriage, and the right of a spouse

to marital fidelity of his/her partner. It impacts

society as it breaks the fundamental unit of the

family, causing injury not only to the spouses of

the adulteror and the adulteress, it impacts the

growth and well-being of the children, the family,

and society in general, and therefore must be

subject to penal consequences. Throughout history, the State has long

retained an area of regulation in the institution of

marriage. The State has regulated various aspects

of the institution of marriage, by determining the

age when an adult can enter into marriage; it

grants legal recognition to marriage; it creates

rights in respect of inheritance and succession; it

provides for remedies like judicial separation, 57 alimony, restitution of conjugal rights; it

 regulates surrogacy, adoption, child custody,

 guardianship, partition, parental responsibility;

 guardianship and welfare of the child. These are

 all areas of private interest in which the State

 retains a legitimate interest, since these are areas

 which concern society and public well-being as a

 whole. Adultery has the effect of not only jeopardising

 the marriage between the two consenting adults,

 but also affects the growth and moral fibre of

 children. Hence the State has a legitimate public

 interest in making it a criminal offence. 16.2. The contra view is that adultery is a marital

 wrong, which should have only civil

 consequences. A wrong punishable with criminal

 sanctions, must be a public wrong against society

 as a whole, and not merely an act committed

 against an individual victim. To criminalize a certain conduct is to declare

 that it is a public wrong which would justify 58 public censure, and warrant the use of criminal

 sanction against such harm and wrong doing. The autonomy of an individual to make his or

 her choices with respect to his/her sexuality in

 the most intimate spaces of life, should be

 protected from public censure through criminal

 sanction. The autonomy of the individual to take

 such decisions, which are purely personal, would

 be repugnant to any interference by the State to

 take action purportedly in the „best interest‟ of

 the individual. Andrew Ashworth and Jeremy Horder in their

 commentary titled „Principles of Criminal Law‟59

 have stated that the traditional starting point of

 criminalization is the „harm principle‟ the essence

 of which is that the State is justified in

 criminalizing a conduct which causes harm to

 others. The authors opine that the three elements

 for criminalization are: (i) harm, (ii) wrong doing,

 and (iii) public element, which are required to be

59 Oxford University Press, (7th Edn.) May 2013 59 proved before the State can classify a wrongful

 act as a criminal offence. John Stuart Mill states that ―the only purpose

 for which power can be rightly exercised over the

 member of a civilized community against his will is to prevent harm to others.‖ 60 The other important element is wrongfulness.

 Andrew Simester and Andreas von Hirsch opine

 that a necessary pre-requisite of criminalization

 is that the conduct amounts to a moral wrong.61

 That even though sexual infidelity may be morally

 wrong conduct, this may not be a sufficient

 condition to criminalize the same. 17. In my view, criminal sanction may be justified where

 there is a public element in the wrong, such as offences

 against State security, and the like. These are public

 wrongs where the victim is not the individual, but the

 community as a whole. 60 Mill, John S., Chapter I: Introductory, On Liberty, Published London: Longman, Roberts,
 & Green Co. 1869, 4th Edn. 61 A P Simester and Andreas von Hirsch, Crimes, Harms, And Wrongs: On The Principles Of

 Criminalisation, Oxford: Hart Publishing (2011) 60 Adultery undoubtedly is a moral wrong qua the spouse

and the family. The issue is whether there is a sufficient

element of wrongfulness to society in general, in order to

bring it within the ambit of criminal law? The element of public censure, visiting the delinquent

with penal consequences, and overriding individual

rights, would be justified only when the society is directly

impacted by such conduct. In fact, a much stronger

justification is required where an offence is punishable

with imprisonment. The State must follow the minimalist approach in the

criminalization of offences, keeping in view the respect for

the autonomy of the individual to make his/her personal

choices. The right to live with dignity includes the right not to

be subjected to public censure and punishment by the

State except where absolutely necessary. In order to

determine what conduct requires State interference

through criminal sanction, the State must consider

whether the civil remedy will serve the purpose. Where a 61 civil remedy for a wrongful act is sufficient, it may not

 warrant criminal sanction by the State. 18. In view of the aforesaid discussion, and the anomalies

 in Section 497, as enumerated in para 11 above, it is

 declared that : ……………………..J.
 (INDU MALHOTRA)

New Delhi
September 27, 2018 62