Advertising technology provider Ozone Media has tied up with fraud detection company Forensiq to help them validate the authenticity of a click through and impression and prevent ad fraud. With the new checks against fraud, Ozone hopes to bring down distrust in online advertising and push programmatic advertising adoption.

Programmatic advertising uses real-time systems and algorithms to automate the delivery of targeted advertisements to consumers across touch points. They ads could include targeted offers, messages, content through paid, owned and earned channels.

Some of the problems which programmatic ads have is impression and click frauds. In impression and click fraud, bots accrue impressions and clicks without any humans viewing the ad.  This in turn implies the publisher gets revenue from the sold ad placement, but the advertiser stands to lose since no human really viewed or clicked on the ad.

A recent study by the Association of National Advertisers and security firm White Ops which examined 5.5 billion online ads purchased by  36 major U.S. advertisers across 30 million websites during August and September, and the study showed  that the average bot level for display ad campaigns throughout the study was 11%, but for programmatic ad buys that number rose to 17%. In other words, display ads purchased through programmatic channels were 55% more likely to be loaded by bots than non-programmatic ads.

However an interesting trend in online advertising is that some websites are forgoing impressions and click throughs as a metric and instead adopting total time reading or attention minutes. For example, at publishing platform Medium they want to show advertisers the  total time reading spent reading a story or page and believe that it is the only metric that matters.

Other developments at Ozone Media

In November, Ozone Media appointed Raj Beri as its chief operating officer to oversee the company’s engineering, product development and day-to-day operations. In August, Ozone media partnered with New York-based advertising technology platform AppNexus to provide technical expertise for cross platform access to its solutions and allow it to expand to North America.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event