% 16.02.2026 1. The accused/applicant seeks regular bail in case FIR No. 563/2024 of
 PS Palam Village for offence under Section 376 / 506 / 323 IPC and Section 6 POCSO Act. 2. Once again, despite seriousness of the offence, neither the IO Sanju
 Meena nor the SHO concerned has bothered to appear. The WSI Neeraj sent
 by the SHO is completely unaware about facts of the case. 3. Broadly speaking, the allegations against the accused/applicant are
 that initially, he indulged in consensual relations with the prosecutrix, major
 in age, on the promise of getting married; gradually, the accused/applicant
 started beating her up, so she refused to get married with him; thereafter, the
 accused/applicant repeatedly and forcibly raped her, blackmailing to
 circulate her nude videos and photos. 4. The accused/applicant had surrendered his mobile phone, which is an
 iPhone. Subsequently, during investigation, sister of the accused/applicant

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2026 at 20:42:26
 also gave her phone, which is Vivo. Both phones were sent to FSL. Today,
 learned APP on instructions of WSI Neeraj stated that the FSL report was
 submitted in a sealed pen drive, which was not allowed by the trial court to
 be opened. But learned counsel for accused/applicant disputed this and even
 screen shared the said FSL report. 5. According to the said FSL report, no obscene pictures or videos were
 found in the iPhone, but in the Vivo phone, there were some obscene
 pictures, though not videos. On the basis of this material, it is argued by
 learned counsel that allegations of the prosecutrix are completely false. 6. Looking into the above circumstances, especially the total laxity on
 the part of IO and SHO, it should be appropriate to grant bail to the
 accused/applicant. But before proceeding further, it is noticed that till date,
 neither prosecutrix nor her counsel has been served with any notice by the
 IO. 7. Under these circumstances, to ensure no further delay, it is directed
 that the ACP concerned shall personally serve notice of the next date on the
 prosecutrix. 8. Copy of this order be sent to the concerned DCP to look into the
 matter and take appropriate steps. A detailed report personally signed by the
 concerned DCP shall be filed positively by the next date. 9. In view of old pendency of this case, it is made clear that no further
 adjournment shall be allowed. 10. Relist on 26.02.2026 in Advance List. GIRISH KATHPALIA, J
 FEBRUARY 16, 2026/ry

This is a digitally signed order. The authenticity of the order can be re-verified from Delhi High Court Order Portal by scanning the QR code shown above.
The Order is downloaded from the DHC Server on 16/02/2026 at 20:42:26