The Manipur government suspended internet and mobile data services, including VSAT (Very Small Aperture Terminal) and VPN (Virtual Private Network) services, for five days starting June 7 across five districts, according to an order from Manipur’s Home Department.

Additionally, the administration—currently under President’s Rule—banned gatherings of more than five people and prohibited the carrying of weapons, sticks, or stones, according to multiple orders issued by district magistrates in the same districts.

Authorities announced these prohibitions after the police and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested member(s) of Arambai Tenggol (AT) in the Imphal West district, sparking protests. Authorities have accused Arambai Tenggol, an alleged radical Meitei armed group, of engaging in “anti-social activities.”

The prohibition of internet services and public gatherings was ordered under the following sections:

These restrictions were imposed in the following districts: Imphal West, Imphal East, Thoubal, Kakching, and Bishnupur. The state’s Home Ministry claimed that social media platforms were being used to “facilitate and/or mobilise mobs of agitators and demonstrators.” It also warned that such mobilisation could lead to loss of life and damage to public property.

This is not the first time Manipur has faced internet shutdowns. The state experienced the longest internet shutdown of 2023, which lasted around eight months . Telecom services were again suspended for five days in September 2024 .

According to the Let the Net Work 2.0 report from the Software Freedom Law Centre, Manipur has witnessed 47 internet shutdowns during 2023 and 2024, totalling more than 5,000 hours. These shutdowns are the second longest in India, following those in Jammu and Kashmir.

Ethnic violence between the Meitei and Kuki-Zo communities has been ongoing since April 2023 — which saw the first internet shutdown during the conflict that continued until December and has since been repeatedly re-imposed whenever tensions escalate.

The clashes initially began after a tribal student union protested the Manipur High Court’s directive to the state government, recommending that the Meitei community be included in the Scheduled Tribes list. The following year, the High Court rolled back key controversial provisions of its earlier order.

According to the figures provided by the state’s Governor Anusuiya Uikey in the Legislative Assembly:

The Supreme Court of India has ruled that access to the internet is a fundamental right by extension, as articulated in its judgment on the internet blockade in Jammu & Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370. Similarly, in 2017, Kerala declared access to the internet a basic human right. In today’s digital age, internet access is deeply intertwined with freedom of speech and expression, the right to life and liberty, and the right to equality—collectively referred to as the golden triangle of the Indian Constitution.

Governments often cite the spread of fake news, hate speech, and the need to maintain public order as reasons for internet shutdowns. However, such shutdowns are a double-edged sword. How can people verify rumours or misinformation circulated through offline means if they are denied access to credible, fact-checked information online?

Blanket internet bans , aimed at curbing misinformation, often backfire, disrupting businesses, education, healthcare, and the everyday lives of citizens . They hinder transparency and fuel distrust in government action.

“In France, the internet is like the right to vote; we wouldn’t even consider shutting it down,” said a French government trade officer, referencing France’s decision not to suspend internet services even during terrorist attacks. He was speaking at a MediaNama event focused on internet shutdowns.

India must similarly explore more targeted, proportionate, and transparent methods to combat misinformation and maintain public order—without infringing on citizens’ fundamental rights, especially the right to internet access.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event