PhonePe users can now activate their Unified Payments Interface (UPI) accounts just by doing an Aadhar-based OTP authentication, PhonePe said in a press release. Earlier users had to enter their debit card numbers to activate PhonePe’s UPI service. This was a barrier for those who did not have a debit card. Economic Times reported that to use this facility, the Aadhar card of the user must be linked to their bank accounts.

The company said that it is the first UPI Third Party Application Provider (TRAP) to roll out the Aadhar-based UPI onboarding service, which will encourage more users without debit cards to transact using UPI.

“We are excited to be the first fintech platform to offer Aadhaar based authentication for our users, making the UPI onboarding flows even more simple and inclusive. We believe this is a very progressive move by RBI, NPCI and UIDAI, and is a great example of the digital financial inclusion that UIDAI’s Aadhaar program has been able to drive. This will help expand the overall UPI ecosystem, and also onboard new customers to the digital payments fold. UPI has become a global exemplar, and countries across the world are looking to implement it. Going forward, we are closely working with NPCI to take UPI international.’’

FREE READ of the day by MediaNama: Click here to sign-up for our free-read of the day newsletter delivered daily before 9 AM in your inbox.

How the Aadhar-based authentication will work

“In the new flow, the Aadhaar e-KYC flow will be made part of the UPI onboarding journey on the PhonePe App.” Users choosing this option will have to enter the last six digits of their Aadhar number for onboarding, and then enter the OTP they receive from UIDAI and their respective bank. “Post this, customers will be able to access all UPI features such as payments and balance check on the PhonePe App.”

Why it matters: Measures like this will help provide ‘last mile connectivity’ for digital payments in India. More and more people who have never used debit cards will be able to make ‘cashless payments’, which will the first for many of them. It is also important to note that this is a disincentive for banks selling debit cards. Debit cards which often require a one-time charge or ‘SMS charges’ to be paid by the user can easily be replaced by UPI for small transactions, which is free for users and merchants. Activating UPI without a debit card will make it much more accessible for people. It is also important to note that the Aadhar card is slowly being established as a central point for accessing various government and private services, which can lead to data security risks. Medianama had reported earlier how the linking voter ID to Aadhar can potentially violate people’s right to privacy.

Scams ahead?

Medianama reported earlier that UPI frauds contributed to 35% of the overall number of complaints reported on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (NCRP) for the second quarter (April to June) of 2022, according to a report by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre. Allowing payments just by entering the Aadhar removes the step where the user had to enter their unique card and CVV number, which acted as another source of verification. A simpler payment process in hands of many first-time digital payment users can trigger more UPI-related frauds.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event