OD[protected] Fraud by flipkart thief Flipkart. New return request created need refund immediately. Need refund as soon as possible Take immediate further legal action against flipkart and refunded mymoney as soon as possible. I am Plus premium members on flipkart.since 5 years to go I am on flipkart never faced any issues like this Erlier in my purshace Life. Trusted on flipkart. Recently on sale from flipkart I purshace Daikin 1.5ton ac worth 36490 Through bajaj emi for my relatives anniversary gift purshace our family selected this brand ac for gift so purshace emi basic. Yesterday 25th January was delivery date. Delivery agent know my address so they without any call(you can check on system record)come my home with 2 box. The time I was absent. They given2 boxes balcony and leave. While I came trying to moov boxes another place look like light weight. Immediately I cut both boxes and shocked totally. There only inserted thermocol and some poly and cartoon instead of outdoor and indoor unit. I immediately trying to contact Flipkart customer over call from another number but no information given support team another account. Cause Register number not having incoming service also using my sister she is out of station now. I contacted support over chat they raised return and refund request. But today I can see my refund rejected without Refunding amount. Reason shared Courier confirmed parcel was intact condition. Note my words Percel front sealed was intact but under percel seal was cut mark look like someone open before delivery. I am sure now they theft my products. Take immediate action against flipkart and banned this ecommerce. How they can deal name of sale normal people hard earned money they are playing game. Find our what is error. I want my money as soon as possible. Either I will do Court appel with police CBI and charge compensation for harassing people. Also do broadcast the issue allover social and tv news channels. Make sure refund process as soon as possible.one more important things register number belong with my sister she is out of town education purposes. Unfortunately shipping address contact number out of network I am trouble with communication with flipkart. As soon as possible give access to support team to create return and refunded. Once Again return request created need refund immediately thief Flipkart. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)