AND 

 

SRI THOTA
ASHOK KUMAR, HONBLE MEMBER 

 

  

 

 WEDNESDAY
THE TWENTY THIRD DAY OF JANUARY 

 

 TWO THOUSAND
THIRTEEN 

 

  

 

Oral Order (As per Sri R.Lakshminarasimha Rao, Honble Member) 

 

 *** 1. The
unsuccessful complainant is the appellant. The appellant institute purchased 33
Biometric Readers @ `33,750/- which included !2% VAT on 4.07.2009 and the respondent company installed 30
colleges of the appellant institute in various districts in the State. The
appellant institute has claimed for return of `9,21,375/-
with interest thereon and a sum of Rs.5 lakh towards compensation on the
premise that the respondent company failed to install software in the devices
and collected extra amount of `14,500/- on each device against the prevailing price of `15,500/-
and excess VAT of 12.5% against the actual VAT of 4% . It is stated that the respondent had played
unfair trade practice on the appellant institute and rendered deficient service
by not installing software in the devices supplied by them. 2. The respondent company resisted the
claim on the premise that the appellant institute negotiated with it for
several times and after satisfying itself with the price and quality of the
devices, it had placed purchase order on 4.06.2009 for purchase of 30 Bio
metric Readers of Model 6161 T and the respondent supplied and installed the
Biometric System along with software at various branches of the appellant
institute and there has been no complaint from any of the branches of the
appellant institute in regard to service rendered by the respondent. It is
stated that the respondent had not collected any extra amount either on the
price of the device or VAT and the appellant institute in order to avoid
payment of balance sale consideration of `91,125/-
issued notice on 16.12.2009 and the respondent had addressed reply. 3. The
of the appellant institute filed his affidavit and the documents,ExA1 to
A12. On behalf of the respondent-company . 4. The District Forum dismissed the
complaint on the ground that the appellant institute after verifying the prices
of the devices placed order and purchased them as also got them installed at
its branches and it having used the Biometric Readers for few months cannot
question the price of the device or the VAT charged on them. 5. Aggrieved by the order of the
District Forum, the complainant has filed appeal contending that collection of
excess amount came to the notice of the appellant institute subsequently and that
the respondent had not installed the software as also that collection of excess
amount and making of false promise and misleading representation would amount
to unfair trade practice and deficiency in service on the part of the
respondent company. 6. The point for consideration is
whether the respondent played unfair trade practice on the appellant? 7. The appellant has submitted that
the respondent company has collected excess price of Biometric readers and
excess amount towards Vat as also it failed to install software in the systems.
The appellant addressed letter to the respondent on 16.12.2009 demanding for
return of the amount received by the respondent company and to take back the
devices. The respondent company has issued reply on 31.12.2009. The contents of
the letter and reply would unravel most of the matter relevant to come to the
conclusion as to whether the respondent has played unfair trade practice on the
appellant in the matter of sale of Biometric Readers to the appellant. 8. The letter dated 16.12.2009 and
reply dated 31.12.2009 of the respondent
to the letter read as under: 9. A perusal of the letter and the
reply would show that the appellant institute demanded for return of the amount
paid by it for purchase of the Biometric readers and requested the respondent
to take back the devices and the respondent through its reply has clarified
that product varies from company to company and there has been no MRP fixed on
the device and as regards VAT the respondent raised objection that the
appellant institute has not objected at the initial stage of the project. 10. It is not denied that the respondent
company has raised various quotations for supply and installation of
centralized biometric attendance system for various branches of the appellant
institute and there were negotiations held on several occasions which resulted
in the respondent raising quotation on
01.06.2009 for supply and installation of centralized biometric attendance
system in the branches of the appellant institute at different places in Andhra
Pradesh. It is not disputed that the respondent quoted the price of each device
at `33,750/- including VAT and
service tax. The respondent has contended that it had quoted the rate after
taking into consideration of expenses such as travelling charges, boarding and
lodging expenses for its engineers who had to visit branches of the appellant
institute situate at various places in the state and stay there for a period of 3 days as also the
installation charges, testing and commissioning of the equipment charges had
been considered at the time of fixing the price of the devices. 11. The appellant institute has
suppressed the fact of demonstration of the device and software by the
respondent company for two months before
the appellant institute has placed the order and after satisfying itself with
the function of the equipment and its price the appellant institute placed the
purchase order . It is not denied that the respondent at the request of the
appellant institute, effected modification with SCL by incurring expenditure of
`50,000/- and as required
by the appellant institute, the respondent company has provided licensed Time
Watch software worth `25,000/-free
of cost . 12. The plea of the respondent company
that it had installed the Biometric Reader along with software at various
branches of the appellant institute has acceptable force as seen from the unrebutted
statement of the respondent company that the unit heads of the appellant
institute had issued certificates denoting the proper functioning of the system
and the email sent by Tanuku branch of the appellant institute expressing their
satisfaction as to the functioning of the system. Thus, the statement of the
appellant institute that software was not installed is incorrect and devoid of
bonafides. 13. Unfair trade practice is defined and
included in its ambit all that mentioned in Section 2(1)(r) of the Consumer
protection Act which reads as follows: Provided that where a defence is raised to the effect that such warranty or
guarantee is based on adequate or proper test, the burden of proof of such
defence shall lie on the person raising such defence; (viii)makes
to the public a representation in a form that purports to be (i) a warranty or guarantee of a product or of
any goods or services; or (ii) a promise to replace, maintain or repair an
article or any part thereof or to repeat or continue a service until it has
achieved a specified result, if such purported warranty or guarantee or promise
is materially misleading or if there is no reasonable prospect that such
warranty, guarantee or promise will be carried out; (ix) materially misleads the public concerning the
price at which a product or like products or goods or services, have been or
are, ordinarily sold or provided, and, for this purpose, a representation as to
price shall be deemed to refer to the price at which the product or goods or
services has or have been sold by sellers or provided by suppliers generally in
the relevant market unless it is clearly specified to be the price at which the
product has been sold or services have been provided by the person by whom or
on whose behalf the representation is made; (x) gives false or misleading facts disparaging
the goods, services or trade of another person. Explanation. - For the purposes of clause (1), a
statement that is (a) expressed
on an article offered or displayed for sale, or on its wrapper or container; or (b)  
expressed
on anything attached to, inserted in, or accompanying, an article offered or
displayed for sale, or on anything on which the article is mounted for display
or sale; or (c)   
contained
in or on anything that is sold, sent, delivered, transmitted or in any other
manner whatsoever made available to a member of the public,   

 

shall
be deemed to be a statement made to the public by, and only by, the person who
had caused the statement to be so expressed, made or contained; permits the publication of any advertisement whether in any newspaper or
otherwise, for the sale or supply at a bargain price, of goods or services that
are not intended to be offered for sale or supply at the bargain price, or for
a period that is, and in quantities that are, reasonable, having regard to the
nature of the market in which the business is carried on, the nature and size
of business, and the nature of the advertisement. Explanation
.For the purpose
of clause (2), "bargaining price" means (a)  
a
price that is stated in any advertisement to be a bargain price, by reference
to an ordinary price or otherwise, or (b)  
a
price that a person who reads, hears or sees the advertisement, would
reasonably understand to be a bargain price having regard to the prices at
which the product advertised or like products are ordinarily sold; (3) permits (a)  
the
offering of gifts, prizes or other items with the intention of not providing
them as offered or creating impression that something is being given or offered
free of charge when it is fully or partly covered by the amount charged in the
transaction as a whole; (b)  
the
conduct of any contest, lottery, game of chance or skill, for the purpose of
promoting, directly or indirectly, the sale, use or supply of any product or
any business interest; (3A)
withholding  from the participants of any scheme offering gifts, prizes or
other items free of charge, on its closure the information about final results
of the scheme. Explanation. For the purposes of this sub-clause, the participants of a scheme shall be
deemed to have been informed of the final results of the scheme where such
results are within a reasonable time, published, prominently in the same
newspapers in which the scheme was originally advertised; (4) permits the sale or supply of goods intended
to be used, or are of a kind likely to be used, by consumers, knowing or having
reason to believe that the goods do not comply with the standards prescribed by
competent authority relating to performance, composition, contents, design,
constructions, finishing or packaging as are necessary to prevent or reduce
the risk of injury to the person using the goods; (5) permits the hoarding or destruction of goods,
or refuses to sell the goods or to make them available for sale or to provide
any service, if such hoarding or destruction or refusal raises or tends to
raise or is intended to raise, the cost of those or other similar goods or
services. (6) manufacture of spurious goods or offering such
goods for sale or adopts  deceptive practices in the provision of
services. (2) Any reference in this Act to any other
Act or provision thereof which is not in force in any area to which this Act
applies shall be construed to have a reference to the corresponding Act or
provision thereof in force in such area. 14. It is contended that the respondent
had informed the appellant the rate of the Biometric Reader and the rate of VAT
and service tax charged thereon. The plea of the appellant that it came to know
about the charging of excess rate of the device and VAT few months subsequent
to purchase of the Biometric Reader holds no water in the light of its
prolonged discussion with the respondent prior to purchase of the equipment as
also on calculations making payment of half of the agreed amount. The
respondent in paragraphs 12 and 13 of the written version would contend that: 15. The appellant has suppressed fact
of demonstration of the function of the system for a period of two months prior
to placing the order, its holding negotiations with the respondent with regard
to the price of the devices, the respondent installing the software at various branches
of the appellant institute and its knowledge of details of the charges etc. 16. We do not find any merit in the
appeal The appellant has approached the
District Forum with unclean hands and it cannot be heard to attribute
deficiency in service and unfair trade practice to the respondent company. 17. In the result, the appeal is
dismissed confirming the order of the District Forum. The parties shall bear their
own costs. MEMBER 

 

  

 

 

 

 MEMBER 

 

 Dt.23.01.2013 

 

KMK*