2026:HHC:3357

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No. 3002 of 2025
 Reserved on: 16.01.2026
 Date of Decision: 23.01.2026. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Vacation Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No.

 For the Petitioner(s) : Mr Kapil Sharma, Advocate.
 For the Respondent/State: Mr Prashant Sen, Deputy Advocate
 General. Rakesh Kainthla, Vacation Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition seeking

 regular bail in FIR No. 40 of 2025, dated 16.4.2025, registered at

 Police Station, Gagret, District Una, H.P. for the commission of

 offences punishable under Sections 126(2), 308(4), 324(5),

 351(2), 352, 62, 111(2)(B) read with Section 3(5) of Bharatiya

 Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (BNS). Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2026:HHC:3357 2. It has been asserted that, as per the prosecution,

Kanwar Sandeep Singh, Proprietor of Thakur Stone Crusher,

Guglehar, filed a complaint asserting that Amrish Rana, Amit

Mankotia and two other persons came to the spot on 15.4.2025 at

about 10.00 PM in their vehicles bearing Registration No. HP-67-

9251 and HP-72D-0695. They stopped JCB Driver Shiv Kumar

and Tipper Driver Sanjay Rana, who were loading goods on the

bank of the river Swan. They threatened the JCB Driver and the

tipper driver to take away their vehicles from the spot. Amrish

Rana had a darat in his hand, and he threatened to kill the drivers

with it. The drivers took their vehicles away from the spot. Amrish Rana and his companions put some substance in the

engines of the vehicle and deflated their tyres. Driver Shiv Kumar

and Sanjay Rana narrated the incident to informant Sandeep

Singh, who reported the matter to the police. The police

registered the FIR and investigated the matter. The petitioner is

innocent, and he was falsely implicated. The police have filed the

charge sheet before the Court, and no fruitful purpose would be

served by detaining the petitioner in custody. The petitioner

would abide by the terms and conditions that the Court may 3 2026:HHC:3357

impose. Hence, it was prayed that the present petition be allowed

and the petitioner be released on bail. 3. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the informant, Kanwar Sandeep Singh, made a

complaint to the police stating that he had established Thakur

Store Crusher Guglehar about 03 years before the incident. He

had employed the drivers to drive the vehicles and the JCB. Amrish Rana visited the Swan River on 12.04.2025 with his

friends and threatened the drivers. He again visited the spot on

15.04.2025 at 10:00 pm with Amit Mankotia in the vehicles

bearing registration Nos. HP67-9251 and HP72D-0695. They

threatened Shiv Kumar, the driver of the JCB and Sanjay Rana,

the driver of the tipper. Amrish Rana had a "darat", and he

threatened to kill the drivers on failure to accompany him. The

drivers drove the vehicles to the Swan River. Amrish Rana and his

friends put something into the engine and deflated the tyres of

the tipper. Amrish Rana had already threatened the informant

and Rohit Kumar to face dire consequences on failure to pay

money to him. Police registered the FIR and investigated the

matter. It was found after the investigation that the accused had

threatened the informant Kanwar Sandeep Singh and Rohit 4 2026:HHC:3357

Kumar, owner of Sai Stone Crusher, for ransom. Hence, the

offence punishable under Section 111(2) of the BNS was added. Amrish Rana and Amit Mankotia produced the vehicles bearing

registration No. HP-72D-0695 and HP-67-9251, along with

documents and the keys, which were seized by the police. Amrish

Rana did not produce his mobile phone or darat, which was used

during the incident. Amit Mankotia produced his mobile phone,

which was analyzed and it was found that it was used for calling

someone virtually. The petitioner was acquitted in FIR No.

185/2014, 216/15, and 220/15, and FIR No.37/25 is still pending

against him. The informant stated during the investigation that

Amrish Rana, Amit Mankotia and two other persons had

threatened him on 15.4.2025. Amrish Rana, Amit Mankotia and

Aman Rana named Jagpal as their accomplice. Jagpal produced a

bail order passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, and he

was released on bail in terms of the order. The charge sheet was

filed before the learned Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Amb, on 26.08.2025. As per the result of the analysis,

hydrocarbons were detected in the contents of the parcel sent for

analysis. The result of the analysis of the mobile phone is

awaited. The petitioner would indulge in the commission of a 5 2026:HHC:3357

similar offence in case of his release on bail. Hence, the status

report. 4. I have heard Mr Kapil Sharma, learned counsel for the

petitioner Aman Rana and Mr Prashant Sen, learned Deputy

Advocate General for the respondent-State. 5. Mr Kapil Sharma, learned counsel for the petitioner

Aman Rana, submitted that the petitioner is innocent and he was

falsely implicated. The offence punishable under Section 111 of

the BNS is not made out against the petitioner because no FIR

was registered against him or any other person in the preceding

ten years, which is a requirement of Section 111 of the BNS. The

police have filed the charge sheet before the Court, and the

custody of the petitioner is not required for the investigation. No

fruitful purpose would be served by detaining the petitioner in

custody. Hence, he prayed that the present petition be allowed

and the petitioner be released on bail. 6. Mr Prashant Sen, learned Deputy Advocate General

for the respondent/State, submitted that the petitioner had

threatened the informant on the previous occasion for ransom. The petitioner was involved in the commission of similar 6 2026:HHC:3357

offences earlier, and he would indulge in the commission of a

similar offence in case of his release on bail. Hence, he prayed

that the present petition be dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Pinki v. State of U.P. , (2025) 7 SCC

314: 2025 SCC OnLine SC 781, wherein it was observed at page 380: [Patrick Devlin, "The Criminal Prosecution in England" 9. Thus, the legal principles and practice validate the
 Court considering the likelihood of the applicant
 interfering with witnesses for the prosecution or 7 2026:HHC:3357

 otherwise polluting the process of justice. It is not only
 traditional but rational, in this context, to enquire into the
 antecedents of a man who is applying for bail to find
 whether he has a bad record, particularly a record which
 suggests that he is likely to commit serious offences while
 on bail. In regard to habituals, it is part of criminological
 history that a thoughtless bail order has enabled the
 bailee to exploit the opportunity to inflict further crimes
 on the members of society. Bail discretion, on the basis of
 evidence about the criminal record of a defendant, is
 therefore not an exercise in irrelevance." (emphasis
 supplied) 57. In Prahlad Singh Bhati v. State (NCT of Delhi ), (2001) 4
SCC 280: 2001 SCC (Cri) 674, this Court highlighted various
aspects that the courts should keep in mind while dealing
with an application seeking bail. The same may be
extracted as follows: (SCC pp. 284-85, para 8)
 "8. The jurisdiction to grant bail has to be exercised on
 the basis of well-settled principles, having regard to the
 circumstances of each case and not in an arbitrary
 manner. While granting the bail, the court has to keep in
 mind the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in
 support thereof, the severity of the punishment which
 conviction will entail, the character, behaviour, means
 and standing of the accused, circumstances which are
 peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing
 the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable
 apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with, the
 larger interests of the public or State and similar other
 considerations. It has also to be kept in mind that for the
 purposes of granting the bail the legislature has used the
 words "reasonable grounds for believing" instead of "the
 evidence" which means the court dealing with the grant
 of bail can only satisfy it (sic itself) as to whether there is
 a genuine case against the accused and that the
 prosecution will be able to produce prima facie evidence
 in support of the charge." (emphasis supplied) 8 2026:HHC:3357 58. This Court in Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan
Singh , (2002) 3 SCC 598: 2002 SCC (Cri) 688, speaking
through Banerjee, J., emphasised that a court exercising
discretion in matters of bail has to undertake the same
judiciously. In highlighting that bail should not be granted
as a matter of course, bereft of cogent reasoning, this
Court observed as follows: (SCC p. 602, para 3)
 "3. Grant of bail, though being a discretionary order, but,
 however, calls for the exercise of such a discretion in a
 judicious manner and not as a matter of course. An order
 for bail bereft of any cogent reason cannot be sustained.
 Needless to record, however, that the grant of bail is
 dependent upon the contextual facts of the matter being
 dealt with by the court and facts do always vary from
 case to case. While placement of the accused in the
 society, though it may be considered by itself, cannot be a
 guiding factor in the matter of grant of bail, and the
 same should always be coupled with other circumstances
 warranting the grant of bail. The nature of the offence is
 one of the basic considerations for the grant of bail -- the
 more heinous is the crime, the greater is the chance of
 rejection of the bail, though, however, dependent on the
 factual matrix of the matter." (emphasis supplied) 59. In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan , (2004) 7
SCC 528: 2004 SCC (Cri) 1977, this Court held that although
it is established that a court considering a bail application
cannot undertake a detailed examination of evidence and
an elaborate discussion on the merits of the case, yet the
court is required to indicate the prima facie reasons
justifying the grant of bail. 60. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashis Chatterjee , (2010) 14
SCC 496: (2011) 3 SCC (Cri) 765, this Court observed that
where a High Court has granted bail mechanically, the said
order would suffer from the vice of non-application of
mind, rendering it illegal. This Court held as under with
regard to the circumstances under which an order
granting bail may be set aside. In doing so, the factors 9 2026:HHC:3357

which ought to have guided the Court's decision to grant
bail have also been detailed as under: (SCC p. 499, para 9)
 "9. ... It is trite that this Court does not, normally,
 interfere with an order passed by the High Court
 granting or rejecting bail to the accused. However, it is
 equally incumbent upon the High Court to exercise its
 discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in
 compliance with the basic principles laid down in a
 plethora of decisions of this Court on the point. It is well
 settled that, among other circumstances, the factors to be
 borne in mind while considering an application for bail
 are: accused, including Jagpal Singh Rana and Amit Mankotia, had

intimidated the informant and other persons. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court released Jagpal Singh Rana on pre-arrest bail in

Criminal Appeal No.4609 of 2025 arising out of the SLP CRL No.

(11389 of 2025) titled Jagpal Singh Vs. State of HP , decided on

27.10.2025. Learned Additional Sessions Judge-I, Una released

Amit Mankotia in Bail Application No.293 of 2025, titled Amit 11 2026: HHC:3357

Mankotia Vs. State of HP , decided on 8.9.2025. Petitioner had

applied for bail before the learned Additional Sessions Judge-I,

Una, but his application was dismissed on the ground that he had

criminal antecedents. The offences alleged against them were

grave, involving violence and risk to public peace. Therefore, he

could not be released on bail. 11. The police have registered the FIR for the commission

of offences punishable under Sections 126(2) (wrongful

restraint), 308(4) (extortion), 324(5) (mischief), 351(2) (criminal

intimidation), 352 (intentional insult), 62 (attempt to commit

offence punishable with imprisonment) and 111 (organized

crime). The FIR did not mention that Amrish Rana, Amit

Mankotia or any other person had threatened the informant or

any other person before the incident for ransom. A statement

was made during the pendency of the investigation to this effect. Therefore, prima facie, it is doubtful that such an offence had

been committed because had it been so, the matter would have

been reported to the police at the earliest or at least while

registering the present FIR. 12. The police have also added Section 111 of BNS. It reads

as follows: Explanation. --For the purposes of this sub-section,-- (i) "organised crime syndicate" means a group of
 two or more persons who, acting either singly or
 jointly, as a syndicate or gang, indulge in any
 continuing unlawful activity; (ii) "continuing unlawful activity" means an
 activity prohibited by law which is a cognizable
 offence punishable with imprisonment of three
 years or more, undertaken by any person, either
 singly or jointly, as a member of an organised crime
 syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate in respect
 of which more than one charge-sheets have been
 filed before a competent Court within the preceding
 period of ten years and that Court has taken
 cognizance of such offence, and includes economic
 offence; (iii) "economic offence" includes criminal breach of
 trust, forgery, counterfeiting of currency notes,
 bank notes, bank-notes and Government stamps,
 hawala transaction, mass-marketing fraud or
 running any scheme to defraud several persons or
 doing any act in any manner with a view to defraud
 any bank or financial institution or any other
 institution organization for obtaining monetary
 benefits in any form. 2026:HHC:3357

(2) Whoever commits organised crime shall-- (a) If such offence has resulted in the death of any
 person, be punished with death or imprisonment for
 life, and shall also be liable to a fine which shall not
 be less than ten lakh rupees; (b) In any other case, be punished with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
 than five years but which may extend to
 imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to a
 fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees.
(3) Whoever abets, attempts, conspires or knowingly
facilitates the commission of an organised crime, or
otherwise engages in any act preparatory to an organised
crime, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than five years but which may
extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to
fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees.
(4) Any person who is a member of an organised crime
syndicate shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than five years but which may
extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to
a fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees.
(5) Whoever, intentionally, harbours or conceals any
person who has committed the offence of an organised
crime shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
which shall not be less than three years but which may
extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to
fine which shall not be less than five lakh rupees: Provided
that this sub-Section shall not apply to any case in which
the harbour or concealment is by the spouse of the
offender. (6) Whoever possesses any property derived or obtained
from the commission of an organised crime or proceeds of
any organised crime or which has been acquired through
the organised crime, shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
three years but which may extend to imprisonment for life 14 2026:HHC:3357

 and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than
 two lakh rupees. (7) If any person on behalf of a member of an organized
 crime syndicate is, or at any time has been in possession
 of movable or immovable property which he cannot
 satisfactorily account for, shall be punishable with
 imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than
 three years but which may extend to imprisonment for ten
 years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less
 than one lakh rupees". 13. A bare perusal of the section shows that a person

should indulge in a specified activity either singly or jointly as a

member of an organised crime syndicate in respect of which

more than one charge sheet has been filed before a Court within

the preceding period of ten years, and the Court has taken

cognisance of such offence. 14. This section was explained by the Karnataka High

Court in Avinash vs. State of Karnataka (11.03.2025 - KARHC): From a reading of the said provision of law, it is manifest
 that for the purpose of invoking Section 111 of BNS, 2023,
 there are certain basic parameters, and if it is found that
 the accused comes within the said parameters, the offence
 punishable under Section 111 of BNS, 2023 can be invoked.
 The said parameters are as follows: 15. It was laid down by the Kerala High Court in Mohd. Hashim v. State of Kerala , 2024 SCC OnLine Ker 5260, where no

charge sheet was filed against the accused in the preceding ten

years, he cannot be held liable for the commission of an offence

punishable under Section 111 of the BNS Act. It was observed: 14. Subsequently, the Honourable Supreme Court in State
of Gujarat v. Sandip Omprakash Gupta [2022 SCC OnLine SC
1727], while interpreting the analogous provisions of the
Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act,
2015, clarified the ratio in Shivaji alias Shivaji Ramaji
Sonawane (supra) by observing thus: Indisputably, the period of ten years may relate to the
period prior to 01.12.2019 or thereafter. In other words,
it provides that the activities, which were offences
under the law in force at the relevant time and in
respect of which two charge sheets have been filed and
the Court has taken cognisance thereof, during the
period of the preceding ten years, then it will be
considered as continuing unlawful activity on
01.12.2019 or thereafter. It nowhere by itself declares
any activity to be an offence under the said 2015 Act
prior to 01.12.2019. It also does not convert any activity
done prior to 01.12.2019 to be an offence under the said
2015 Act. It merely considers two charge sheets in
relation to the acts which were already declared as
offences under the law in force to be one of the
requisites for the purpose of identifying continuing
unlawful activity and/or for the purpose of an action
under the said 2015 Act. 57. If the decision of the coordinate Bench of this Court
in the case of Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji
Sonawane (supra) is looked into closely along with
other provisions of the Act, the same would indicate
that the offence of 'organised crime' could be said to
have been constituted by at least one instance of
continuation, apart from continuing unlawful activity
evidenced by more than one chargesheets in the
preceding ten years. We say so, keeping in mind the
following: 58. In the overall view of the matter, we are convinced
 that the dictum as laid by this Court in Shiva alias
 Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane(supra) does not require any
 relook. The dictum in Shiva alias Shivaji Ramaji
 Sonawane (supra) is the correct exposition of law". 16. Section 111 (1) of the BNS in respect of organised crime
is, in essence, analogous to the provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Control Act and the
Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act .
The legal principles laid down by the Honourable Supreme
Court in its interpretation of organised crime as defined by
the above two state legislations are applicable on all fours
to Section 111 (1) of the BNS. Thus, it is not necessary to
have a further interpretation of the above analogous
provision. 2026:HHC:3357 17. In view of the above discussion, to attract an offence
 under Section 111 (1) of the BNS it is imperative that a
 group of two or more persons indulge in any continuing
 unlawful activity prohibited by law, which is a cognizable
 offence punishable with imprisonment of three years or
 more, undertaken by any person, either singly or jointly,
 as a member of an organised crime syndicate or on behalf
 of such syndicate in respect of which more than one
 charge-sheet has to be filed before a competent Court
 within the preceding period of ten years and that Court
 has taken cognizance of such an offence. 18. In the present case, it is undisputed that no charge
 sheet has been filed against the petitioner in any court in
 the last ten years. Therefore, prima facie, the offence
 under Section 111(1) is not attracted. Nevertheless, these
 are matters to be investigated and ultimately decided after
 trial. Additionally, the petitioner has been in judicial
 custody for the last 57 days, and recovery has been
 effected. 16. This judgment was followed in Pesala Sivashankar

Reddy v. State of A.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine AP 5422, wherein it was

held: 17. It was held in Suraj Singh vs. State of Punjab (25.09.2024 - PHHC): MANU/PH/4288/2024 that the police must

gather legally admissible evidence to connect the accused with

the commission of a crime punishable under Section 111 of the

BNS Act. It was observed: 18. In the present case, the only allegation of the

petitioner indulging in organised crime is based upon the fact

that he and other co-accused had threatened the informant and

another person for ransom, which, as stated above, is highly

doubtful because of the absence of any such allegation in the FIR. The status report also does not show that the petitioner was part

of a syndicate against which cognisance was taken in the

preceding ten years. Therefore, the material on record does not

prima facie connect the petitioner to the commission of a crime

punishable under Section 111 of BNS. 19. The other offences alleged against the petitioner are

not so serious as to justify his pre-trial detention. The police

have already filed the charge sheet before the Court, and the

petitioner's custody is not required for investigation. 2026:HHC:3357 20. The police asserted that the petitioner would indulge

in the commission of a similar offence and would intimidate the

witnesses in case of release on bail. These apprehensions are

without any basis and can be removed by imposing the

conditions. Therefore, this apprehension is not sufficient to deny

bail to the petitioner. 21. It was submitted that the petitioner has criminal

antecedents and he should not be released on bail. The Learned

Trial Court was also influenced by this consideration while

denying bail. Mere criminal antecedents without the prima facie

involvement of the petitioner in the commission of a heinous

offence are not sufficient to deny bail to him. Since prima facie

involvement of the petitioner in any heinous offence is not

established in the present case. Therefore, the bail cannot be

denied to the petitioner on the ground that he has criminal

antecedents. 22. The police have not asserted that the petitioner had

absented in the previous cases; rather the police reported that

the petitioner was acquitted in some of the cases registered

against him, which means that the petitioner had faced the trial, 27 2026:HHC:3357

and there is no material to conclude at this stage that the

petitioner would not attend the trial if released on bail. 23. In view of the above, the present petition is allowed,

and the petitioner is ordered to be released on bail subject to his

furnishing bail bonds in the sum of ₹1,00,000/- with one surety

in the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned Trial Court. While on bail, the petitioner will abide by the following

conditions: 2026:HHC:3357 24. It is expressly made clear that in case of violation of

any of these conditions, the prosecution will have the right to file

a petition for cancellation of the bail. 25. The petition stands accordingly disposed of. A copy of

this order be sent to the Superintendent of District Jail, Una at

Bangarh, H.P., and the learned Trial Court by FASTER. 26. The observations made hereinabove are regarding the

disposal of this petition and will have no bearing whatsoever on

the case's merits.