Appearance

Shri M.H. Patil, Advocate 
for appellant
Shri Rakesh Goyal, Addl. Commissioner (A.R.)
For Respondent

CORAM: 2.	The relevant facts that arise for consideration are that during the visit of the premises of the main appellant M/s. MIRC Electronics it was noticed by the officers that appellant was importing various items like colour picture tubes, components and accessories and sending the same to the co-makers for manufacture of colour Television sets. While clearing the inputs from their factory premises, the assessee was doing so by raising an invoice on which they indicated reversal of Central Excise duty/CVD. It was noticed by the officers that the appellant having availed CENVAT Credit of Special Additional Duty (SAD) did not reverse the same while removing the components to their co-makers. The amount of SAD involved in this case was reversed by the appellant before the issuance of show-cause notice as also during the pendency of the matter. Show-cause notice was issued to the appellant for appropriation of the amounts paid by them and also for demand of interest and imposition of penalties. Adjudicating authority after following due process of law came to the conclusion that the main appellant as well as other appellants needs to be imposed with penalties and interest also needs to be demanded. 3.	Learned Counsel after taking us through show-cause notice, order-in-original and the records would submit that the issue is due to dis-functioning of the computers software wherein the SAD duty was visualized and no provisions were made in system to catch this data and was not considered when the SAP programme were made. It is his submission that this non-indication of payment of SAD was detected by them on 30th May 2006. The said issue was taken up with their office; kept in touch with the software programmers who had installed the said programme in the appellants factory. He would submit that they had already noticed the issue the lacunae and has started paying duty by TR-6 challan. He would submit that there was no intention to evade duty as the appellant had paid duty of CVD which was accepted and is undisputed. The submission of the learned Counsel is that an identical issue on the same set of facts was decided by this Bench in the case of LG Electronics Pvt. Ltd. v. CCE Pune III  2010 (255) ELT 135 (Tri. Mumbai). It is his submission that the said order was carried in appeal of the Revenue to the Honble High Court and the same was dismissed as reported at 2014 (308) ELT A118 (Bom.). He would also draw our attention to the decision of this Tribunal in the case of Cosmo Films Ltd. v. CCE  2010 (251) ELT 130 (Tri.  Mum) which was also considering the same issue but in respect of some other importers. He would submit that even this judgement of the Tribunal was carried in appeal by the Revenue and the same was dismissed by the Honble High Court on 28.07.2011. He produced the copies of the said judgement. It is also his submission that the entire exercise of the Revenue of demanding duty of SAD from the appellant would be revenue neutral as the appellants co-makers avail CENVAT Credit and discharged duty liability on the colour TV based upon the MRP of the main appellant i.e. MIRC Electronics. He would submit that matter of fact the amount in dispute in these appeals, the co-makers of the appellant had already availed CENVAT Credit paid by the appellant on supplementary invoices. 4.	Learned Departmental Representative while drawing our attention to the very same e-mail correspondance between the Senior personnel of the main appellant would submit that when the main appellant was aware of the problem, they should have informed the department or approached the department for clarification. He would also submit that the appellants were aware of the problem hence there is suppression of fact with intention to evade duty. He would also submit that out of total demand, question of revenue neutrality would not arise atleast in respect of one of Rs.14,63,111/- which was in respect of inputs cleared to branches/service centers and there is no question of availment of CENVAT Credit by the said branches/Service Centers. 5.	In rejoinder the learned Counsel would submit that the entire issue is of whether the appellant has suppressed any material fact with intention to evade duty. He would draw our attention to the confirmed demands on which he submits that as per Rule 14 of Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004 read with Section 11A of the Central Excise Act, 1944, penalties are imposed under Rule 15 of Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004 read with Section 11AC of the Central Excise Act, 1944. His submission is that the provisions of Rule 14 of Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004 are not attracted in this case. He would submit that it is the ratio of the judgement of the Tribunal in the case of LG Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (supra). 6.	Considered the submissions made at length by both the sides and perused the records. 7.	The issue involved in this case whether the main appellant needs to be saddled with duty liability of an amount which is equivalent to the amount of CENVAT Credit availed by them on SAD on the components and parts imported and subsequently cleared to their co-makers for manufacture of colour T.V. 8.	Undisputed facts are that the appellants are availing CENVAT Credit of CVD/Central Excise duty and SAD paid by them when they import the parts, components and accessories for manufacturing of Colour T.V. It is also undisputed that when the appellant cleared these parts, components and accessories to their co-makers they debited proportionate amount of CVD/Central Excise duty attributable to such parts, components and accessories. It is also undisputed that during the material period i.e. March 2005 to December 2006, appellant had not reversed SAD at the time of removal of the parts, components and accessories, but subsequently discharged the duty liability along with the interest. 9.	We find that the show-cause notice invokes the provisions of Rule 14 of Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004 read with first proviso to Section 11A of Central Excise Act, 1944 for invoking the extended period for demanding the amount which is equivalent to an amount of SAD on the parts and components cleared to the co-makers. It is noted from the records the appellants were aware of the computer software glitch which did not indicate the reversal of SAD paid on the parts, components and accessories when they were cleared from the factory premises to their co-makers. The argument put forth by the learned Counsel is that there was no intention to evade duty merits acceptance as appellant has discharged CVD/Central Excise duty on the parts, components and accessories cleared to the co-makers; non-reversal of SAD in our view cannot be with intention to evade duty on such components, in the facts and circumstances of this case, as the appellant had discharged the appropriate duty liability of CVD/Central Excise duty; the argument put forth by the learned A.R. that when the appellants were aware of the software problem in May 2006 they should have approached the department, will not carry the case any further, as it is on record that main appellant was trying to resolve the glitch of the computer software programme. In these facts, it cannot be held that there was suppression of facts within intention to evade non-payment of SAD. 9.1.	We find that the reliance placed on the case of LG Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (supra) is correct. On reading of the entire case as reported we find that the facts are identical to the facts and issue in hand. It is noted that in the case of LG Electronics Pvt. Ltd. (supra) the demand was raised under the same proviso i.e. Rule 14 of Cenvat Credit Rules, 2004 read with the provisions of Section 11A(I) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 invoking extended period by alleging suppression of facts with intention to evade duty. It would be correct on our part to reproduce the entire judgement of the Tribunal which is as under:- 9.2. In yet another case of Cosmo Films Ltd (supra), the same issue of non-discharge of 4% of CVD was in dispute. The assessee in that case has pleaded that the mistake was bonafide and credit was available to the sister unit hence the issue is of revenue neutral situation. The Tribunal accepting the bonafide plea as also revenue neutral situation, set aside the penalties imposed on the appellant therein. In the case in hand, are of issue argued is regarding the revenue neutral situation which we find has strong force. Since there is revenue neutral situation, there cannot be any intention to evade duty and most specifically when the appellant has discharged CVD/Central Excise duty on parts, components and accessories on clearance. 10.	In view of the judicial pronouncements and foregoing the impugned order is unsustainable and is liable to be set aside. The impugned order is set aside and the appeals are allowed. (Pronounced in Court on )
	
(P.K.Jain)
Member (Technical) 

(M.V. Ravindran)
Member (Judicial) 

nsk
?? ?? ?? ??