We missed this earlier: US lawmakers María Elvira Salazar and Madeleine Dean on January 10 introduced the No Artificial Intelligence Fake Replicas And Unauthorized Duplications (No AI FRAUD) Act , a bill aimed at protecting an individual’s likeness and voice from being used to generate AI fakes. Likeness refers to any distinguishable features of an individual such as their face.

“New personalized generative AI cloning models and services have enabled human impersonation and allow users to make unauthorized fakes using the images and voices of others. The abuse of this quickly advancing technology has affected everyone from musical artists, actors, sports professionals, and even high school students whose personal rights have been violated,” a press release from Salazar’s office stated.

The office cited examples of how AI has been misused in the past: The AI-generated song featuring Drake and The Weeknd , Johnny Cash singing Barbie Girl , a false dental plan endorsement featuring Tom Hanks , and more seriously, the nonconsensual and intimate AI deepfakes of high school girls in a New Jersey town .

The bill essentially provides individuals intellectual property (IP) rights over their likeness and voice, because of which it covers a broad range of content from AI-generated imitations of artists to non-consensual, sexually explicit deepfakes. Individuals can enforce their IP rights against those who facilitate, create, and spread AI-generated content featuring their likeness or voice without their permission.

While the music and film industries, including well-known singers like Nicki Minaj, Cardi B, 21 Savage, and others , have welcomed the No AI FRAUD Act, critics have pointed out that the bill is overbroad because it covers a wide range of content. The bill itself includes a section that takes into account the freedom of speech granted under the First Amendment, but critics aren’t convinced.

Elizabeth Nolan Brown, writing for Reason, has pointed out that the bill is broad enough to cover reenactments in a true-crime show, a parody TikTok account, depictions of a historical figure in a movie, sketch-comedy skits such as those by Saturday Night Live (SNL), political cartoons, and cartoons like South Park or Family Guy that include depictions of a celebrity.

The Electonic Frontier Foundation has further argued the following against the bill:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event