A Gurugram-based woman recently reported an unsafe experience with the ride-hailing service Ola, claiming that the in-app SOS button did not function. This incident occurred nine years after cab services like Ola and Uber introduced SOS emergency buttons.

Taking to LinkedIn , Shazia A. disclosed that she first got alerted when the driver slowed down the cab without any reason. Later, upon direction by strangers, he stopped the cab, intending to pay an instalment for a supposed loan he had incurred. After the woman rebuked the cab driver for conducting personal business during work hours, he ignored her request to continue the ride. Upon noticing five men approaching the cab, Shazia opened the door to her side and fled from the scene. She explained that the SOS button also seemed non-responsive when she tried to use it. Terming the experience “traumatic”, Shazia later called out the cab services for being responsible for passenger safety.

Upon raising a complaint, she received no response for over 24 hours. Following a massive outrage on social media against Ola, Shazia later updated her original post, adding that the cab service has since reached out to her, confirming the initiation of action against the driver.

Speaking to MediaNama, Shazia disclosed that she couldn’t locate a customer support number within the app, after the incident. Consequently, she called for cab companies to promote greater accountability by creating 24/7 safety response teams to address complaints promptly. For context, Ola mentions the following four steps to navigate to the “CALL US” button:

However, on following the outlined steps, no such feature was available in the app.

Shazia added that she has also previously experienced delays in the app’s emergency features including the live tracking updates. Taking note of her ordeal, she recommended more rigorous background checks for drivers, especially ensuring that in case of their prior engagements with loan sharks, the same shouldn’t intimidate passengers, disrupting their safety during rides. Finally, she inquired about further initiatives and measures undertaken by the company to prevent similar hassles in the future.

Cab services Ola and Uber announced the integration of in-app panic SOS buttons, alerting the local police in case of an emergency in 2015. These moves followed the rape of a Delhi woman by an Uber driver, who later sued the company for negligence and fraud, after which several other safety initiatives were also rolled out by Uber. Later, Ola launched other real-time safety monitoring and driver authentication initiatives. Despite these measures, several instances of harassment and abuse perpetrated by drivers of these cab-hailing services have persisted over the years.

This incident highlights recurring failures of SOS buttons in Indian cab services. Several users have also previously complained about the faulty nature of the SOS button, claiming it stops after displaying a countdown and terming the same unreliable in case of emergencies. Besides this, most cab services also lack functionality concerning the basic red panic buttons mandated by law to be deployed in all commercial passenger vehicles in the national capital to instantly alert police authorities, following the 2014 Delhi rape case. To explain, a 2022 investigation by The Indian Express divulged that in 48 of the 50 Uber rides the news organisation undertook, the panic buttons were non-existent or non-functional.

MediaNama tried to reach out to Ola with more questions regarding the customer safety measures set in place and is awaiting their response.

We will update the post once we hear back from them.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event