1. This is the 3rd application filed by the applicant under Section 439 of

 Cr.P.C. for grant of regular bail relating to Crime No.381/2022 registered at
 Police Station BNP, Dewas for the offence under Section 419 , 420 , 120-B , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 of IPC. 2. As per the prosecution story, allegation levelled against the present
 applicant is that he had allowed the co-accused Satyapal to appear on his behalf
 in the examination for the post of Constable held at the examination centre-
 Kendriya Audhyogik Suraksha Bal Ikai, Bank Note Press, Dewas. Thus, he has Signature Not Verified committed fraud in the said examination. Accordingly offence has been Signed by: TRILOK SINGH SAVNER Signing time: 20-Jul-23 10:31:08 AM 2 registered. 3. Learned counsel for the applicant contended that applicant is innocent
 and he has been falsely implicated in this matter. He is in custody since
 26.5.2022 and already suffered jail incarceration for more than one year. His
 earlier two bail applications were dismissed as withdrawn. There is no legal
 evidence available on record to connect the applicant with the aforementioned
 offence. He is a permanent resident of District Itawa (U.P.). Investigation is
 over, but final conclusion of trial will take considerable long time. Hence, he
 prays that applicant be released on bail. 4. Per-contra, learned PL for respondent/State opposes the bail

 application and prays for its rejection by submitting that applicant's earlier two
 bail applications have been dismissed as withdrawn and there is no material
 change in the circumstances. 5. Perused the case diary as well as the impugned order of the court
 below. 6. Considering all the facts and circumstances of the case, arguments
 advanced by counsel for the parties, nature and gravity of allegation as also
 taking note of the fact that allegation levelled against the present applicant is that
 he has committed fraud in the examination process and allowed some other
 person in place of him as a candidate, including the biometric test report there is
 sufficient evidence available on record against the applicant, therefore, this
 Court is not inclined to grant bail to the applicant. 7. Accordingly this M.Cr.C. is hereby dismissed. C.C. as per rules. (ANIL VERMA)
 JUDGE
 trilok Signature Not Verified Signed by: TRILOK SINGH SAVNER Signing time: 20-Jul-23 10:31:08 AM