1. This is an appeal against the Judgment of Rajagopala Aiyangar J., in W. P. No. 1 of 1956, and relates to the grant of a stage carriage permit for a bus to ply on the route Kollegal to Saggiam in Coimbatore District. Several transport operators made applications for the grant of this permit, among whom it is sufficient to mention the appellant S. Venkatachalam Aiyar, proprietor, Janaki Motor Service, Satyamangalam and P. N. Ramaswami Gounder, Proprietor, Sri Ram Transports, Satyamangalam, hereinafter referred to as the respondent. The Regional Transport Authority, Coimbatore on a consideration of the several applications to them, granted a permit to the appellant before us by their order dated 27th June 1955. The material portion of this order relating to the relative merits of the appellant and the respondent is as follows : 2. Four months' time was given to the appellant for producing the registration certificate of the bus which he intended to put on the road. On 5-9-1955, within the time allowed, the appellant produced a vehicle and requested the Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore, to issue a permit in his name in accordance with the order of the Regional Transport Authority. But he was informed by the Regional Transport Officer that the Government had stayed the operation of the order of the Regional Transport Authority by their order dated 1st September 1955. It was admitted that this order of stay was made by the Government at the instance of the respondent. Against the order of the Regional Transport authority, appeals were filed to the Central Road Traffic Board by some of the aggrieved applicants including the respondent. The Central Road Traffic Board, by its order dated 16-9-1955, confirmed the order of the Regional Transport authority. The reasoning of the order of the Regional Transport authority was substantially adopted by the Central Road Traffic Board. Dealing with the case of the respondent. The Central Road Traffic Board stated : After the disposal of the appeals by the Central Road Traffic Board, the appellant again applied to the Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore, for the issue of a permit to him; but he was informed that the Government, by their memo dated 6-10-1955, had once more stayed the operation of the order of the Regional Transport authority granting the permit to him. On the same day, the Government issued another memorandum directing the Regional Transport authority to consider the question of granting a temporary permit on the route. Thereafter, both the appellant and the respondent applied for the grant of a temporary permit. On 17th October 1955, the Regional Transport authority granted a temporary permit to the appellant. The respondent filed a petition to the Government purporting to be under Section 64-A of the Motor Vehicles Act, to revise the order of the Regional Transport authority granting the temporary permit to the appellant. But that petition was dismissed on the ground that an appeal lay. Then the Government suo motu issued notice to the applicant informing him that the Government proposed to examine the legality, regularity, and propriety of the order of the Regional Transport authority granting the temporary permit to the appellant. At this stage the appellant approached this Court with a Writ Petition No. 938 of 1955, praying for the issue of a writ of prohibition restraining the Government from taking further action pursuant to the aforesaid notice. On 1-12-1955, this Court ordered rule nisi. Before the disposal of this application, the Government disposed of the main revision petition which had been preferred to them by the respondent against the order of the Central Road Traffic Board. By, their order dated 27-12-1955, they set aside both the orders of the Regional Transport authority and the Central Road Traffic Board and granted the permit to the respondent. The Government dealt with the relative claims of the appellant and the respondent thus: 3. It is to quash this order of the Government that the appellant filed W. P. No. 1 of 1956. 4. The main ground on which the order of the Government was attacked was that it was not a honest, impartial and judicial order but that it was actuated by mala fides. The appellant also attacked the reasoning of the Government which formed the basis for their decision as not being supported by the facts of the case and the policy of the Government as enunciated in orders issued by them from time to time. 5. The petition was heard by Rajagopala Aiyangar J., who held that no member of the Government who passed the order impugned, had any personal interest in that decision and that the appellant had not established that the order of the Government was vitiated by lack of bona fides. As regards the merits, the learned Judge observed that it was not the province of this Court to pronounce upon the correctness of the view of the Government on the facts. He therefore dismissed the application. 6. Before us Mr. M. K. Nambiar, learned counsel for the appellant, pressed again both the grounds. Taking mala fides first, the allegations in the affidavit filed by the appellant in support of his application, which relate to this ground are the following: 7. In paragraph 39 there is a reference to the Government's "anxiety to benefit Sri P. N. Ramaswami Gounder." It will be seen that from the above allegations that there was no specific charge of bias on any member of the Government. The Government means, according to the Constitution, the Governor acting with the ministers. It is obvious that there is no allegation that this entire body of individuals is interested in any manner in the respondent. During the pendency of the writ petition the appellant filed an application C.M.P. No. 357 of 1956, praying that this Court may be pleased to call for the notes of the Honourable Minister in charge of transport as well as of the department, including those of the Secretary to the department, in this matter. In the affidavit filed in support of this application, for the first time, one of the ministers was mentioned. In paragraph 2, the deponent, the appellant's son, stated that he had been given to understand that the orders passed by the Government had been passed 'on the personal intervention of the Honourable Minister for Transport who thereby has shown undue interest in the matter, obviously in order to assist the second respondent herein." 8. Paragraph 4 of that affidavit runs thus : "I further state that a perusal of the notes of the Department concerned as well as of the Honourable Minister of Transport in respect of this matter would clearly prove that the Honourable Minister in Charge of Transport himself intervened in the matter in the interests of the second respondent herein and hence has acted mala fide." As pointed out in the counter-affidavit filed on behalf of the State, the charge of "personal intervention" is meaningless because it is not necessary for the Minister to intervene in the matter as he is entitled to pass orders in the matter. What, however, is important to notice is that even here it is not made clear how the Minister was "interested" in the respondent. Throughout, the attempt of the appellant has been to infer "interest" from the orders passed by the Government; whereas it was incumbent on him to allege and prove the "interest" of the concerned authority in the respondent and on that ground to impeach the validity of the order passed by the authority. We have not come across any case in which, without alleging how a tribunal, or authority, is interested in one of the parties, a petitioner in an application for certiorari has been permitted to raise the ground of bias or mala fides. 9. It is now well established that an order of an inferior tribunal can be quashed on the ground that it is vitiated by bias. As Lord Haldane observed in Local Govt. Board v. Arlidge, (1915) AC 120 (A), an administrative tribunal "must deal with the question referred to them without bias." On this topic it is sufficient to refer to the well-known passage in the speech of Viscount Cave L.C., in Frome United Breweries Co., Ltd v. Bath Justices, 1926 AC 586 (B) : 10. "Bias" may be of three kinds: pecuniary, personal and official. Once it is proved that a member of a tribunal has a pecuniary Interest in the subject-matter of the decision, the order passed by the tribunal will be forthwith quashed. Personal bias may be proved in several ways; e.g., by the existence of close relationship between a member of the Tribunal and one of the parties. An obvious case is where a member of the tribunal has already taken any part in the proceeding earlier and presumably would be prejudiced in favour of, or against, one of the parties. In the case of official bias, there may be no personal ill-will; but there may be evidence of an abnormal desire to uphold a particular departmental policy, which would prevent an impartial adjudication of the dispute. It is clear that in the present case no pecuniary, or official, bias has been even suggested. There remains only personal bias. Now, it is not sufficient to merely allege facts which may throw more or less suspicion on the motives of a tribunal and ask the Court to infer personal bias. As Lord Goddard C. J. pointed out in a recent case R. v. Nailsworth Licensing JJ., 1953-2 All ER 652 at page 654 (C) : (10a) Mr. Nambiar relied on the decision in Cottle v. Cottle, 1939-2 All ER 535 (E), but that has no bearing on the facts of this case. In that case, a petition by a wife against her husband for desertion and neglect to maintain came up before a Bench of Justices, the Chairman of which was a friend of the wife's mother. Even at the commencement of the hearing, the husband took-objection to the case being tried before a Court presided over by that Chairman. It was held that there were sufficient evidence upon which the husband might reasonably have formed the impression that this justice could not give the case an unbiassed hearing, and the proceedings were set aside on the ground of bias. In the case before us it was nowhere alleged that the concerned Minister was a friend of the respondent or was otherwise, interested in him for some specified reason or other. 11. In the present case all that the appellant is able to do is to refer to certain orders passed by the Government which, according to Mm, are unprecedented and ask the Court to infer therefrom personal bias. Even the nature or the bias is not clear. In one place it is bias against the appellant; in another place it is bias in favour of the respondent. In one place it is alleged that the orders of the Government are intended to help Sri Ramaswami Gounder. In another place it is said that the orders were actuated by hostility and prejudice to the appellant. Different facts would be necessary to prove these two charges. If it is hostility to the appellant, then it must be specifically alleged and proved why a particular member of the Government is inimically disposed to the appellant. If it is interest in the respondent, then it must be alleged and proved why, and in what way, the member of the Government is interested in the respondent. The appellant has totally failed to allege, still less to prove, any real bias on the pan of the Minister who passed the impugned order. We agree with Rajagopala Aiyangar J., that fraud mala fides, and corruption are extrinsic factors which vitiate orders of a tribunal; but they have to be pleaded and proved to the hilt and no Court can, acting merely on suspicion, find these invalidating circumstances, and on such suspicion alone set aside orders of such bodies. This is exactly what Harries C. J., said in Sudhmdranath v. Sailendranath, AIR 1952 Cal 65 at p. 68 (F) : 12. It cannot be said that there was no material before the State Government on which they could pass their order. Some time was spent by counsel to construe a prior order of the Government, G. O. No. 2524 dated 26-6-1951 regarding transferors of bus permits and how far transfers of permits should be a ground of disqualification in the matter of obtaining fresh permits. It is not to province of this Court to say whether the Government properly construed their earlier order in applying the principles laid down therein to the present case. Whether the fact that the appellant had transferred has permits--may be with the permission of the Government--should be taken as a circumstance against him, is not a matter for us to decide. It is a matter for the State transport authorities, including the Government. On that question, the Government was entitled to differ from the subordinate transport authorities, who thought that the transfer need not go against the appellant; but the Government tock a contrary view and they were entitled to do so. On this point also we agree with Rajagopala Aiyangar J., that it is not for the Courts to pronounce upon the correctness of the Government's view. 13. Mr. Nambiar, learned counsel for the appellant, laid emphasis on the omission of the Government to deal with the reason given by the subordinate transport authorities to reject the claim of the respondent, viz., that he had no direct interest in the concerned route. Even assuming that this charge is justified, we fail to see how it can advance the appellant's case. If the Government's order is right, that the application of the appellant should be rejected, it is unnecessary to go into the question whether the respondent should have been granted the permit or some other applicant should have been. It was also said by appellant's learned counsel that there was interference by the Government with the findings of fact arrived at by the subordinate tribunals. The only material fact was the fact of transfer of permits by the appellant and that was not a fact in dispute. On that fact it was open to the Government to hold that the claim of the appellant should be rejected. 14. Rajagopala Aiyangar J., was right in dismissing the appellant's petition. This appeal fails and is dismissed but we make no order as to costs.