SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Has anyone heard of Indians going abroad to Russia to work in labor/agriculture related jobs? Is this an established migration route, like Indians going to the Gulf or Singapore?
DATE: 2019-08-24
SCORE: 101
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/cuvk03/has_anyone_heard_of_indians_going_abroad_to/

--- POST TEXT ---

Basically I am asking this, because my parents maid a young, unmarried lady told us recently she will be leaving us next month because she is going abroad to Russia to work. However when they asked her about the details many things seemed suspicious. Firstly, they are going there by ship, the destination is a very isolated town where they will perform agricultural work. However she told me others from her area have already gone thought she does not know anyone personally. 

When my mother told her, in a polite manner, this seems suspicious she just kept repeating that it was real. My father then said to her, in a rude/condescending tone, that she was being naive and that she should listen to them because she does not have the knowledge to recognize these things. This made her angry (she worked for my parents for 3 years, never showed any anger/rudeness even once), and said no one will give her a chance in India to do anything because she is poor so this will be her only chance to achieve something with her life.

After this my mother changed the subject and calmed everyone down. Since then she does not chit chat with my parents anymore when coming to work like she used to, only does work quietly and leaves. 

In someways I do feel sorry for her, she left school at 14. My mother told me she once saved money to buy an mini icebox which she used to sell ice cream by standing outside functions in her neighborhood, but her parents made her give the icebox to her brother-in-law (as part of her sisters dowry I guess) after they saw she was earning decent income from it, and he kept all profit, which upset her a lot. 
Anyway my 2 questions are...

1. Does anyone know if Indian going to Russia to do manual work is a real thing? Specifically work in a place called Kamchatka? I searched online but cannot find any examples of Indians doing manual work there. 

2. Is there anyway to explain to her this might be fraud without making her even more mad. Clearly she has pinned all her hopes on this, so we cannot say it bluntly like my father did.