As the accused in these three anticipatory bail applications is

the same person, as the defacto complainant is also the same and as

the allegations are interlinked, these cases are disposed of on the

basis of this common order. 2. B.A.No.199/2020 arises out of Crime No.90/2018 of

Kuzhalmannam Police Station, which has been registered on the basis

of the complaint of the lady defacto complainant alleging offences

punishable under Sec.367(2)(n) of the I.P.C., Secs.7 & 8 of the POCSO

Act, Secs. 66E & 67 A of the Information Technology Act, 2000 . The

allegations in the said crime are to the effect that the applicant

accused had sexually abused the lady defacto complainant for a long

time since 2013 and he had forcefully obtained her nude photographs

& video clippings and blackmailed and intimidated her under the

threat of uploading her obscene pictures in social media and

subjected her forcible sexual inter course, etc. Further that he had

also sexually abused her two minor daughters, aged 14 and 11 years

and he had also sent nude photographs of the lady defacto

complainant to her husband and her friends causing extreme mental
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 5 :- 3. B.A.No.201/2020 arises out of Crime No.171/2019 of

Vadakkencherry Police Station, which has been registered for

offences punishable under Sec.354(C) of the I.P.C. and Sec. 67A of the

Informational Technology Act, based on the complaint of the

abovesaid lady defacto complainant. The allegations in the said

crime are to the effect that the applicant accused had obtained nude

pictures of the lady defacto complainant and he had also sent nude

photographs and clippings to her mobile phone. 4. Whereas B.A.No.208/2020 arises out of Crime No. 471/

2019 of Alathur Police Station, which has been registered for offences

punishable under Secs.195A , 506(i) of the I.P.C. and Secs.66E and 67A of the IT Act, based on the complaint of the abovesaid lady

defacto complainant. In the instant the crime, the allegations are to

the effect that the applicant accused had obtained nude pictures and

video clippings of the defacto complainant and had sent her nude

photographs and video clippings to the mobile of the defacto

complainant and other persons. 5. It is now reported that, pursuant to the directions issued

by the District Police chief concerned, the investigations in all these
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 6 :- 6. Heard Sri.P.Vijaya Bhanu, learned Senior Counsel

instructed by Sri.Baby Mathew, learned counsel appearing for the

applicant accused in these 3 cases, Sri.Saigi Jacob Palatty, learned

Prosecutor appearing for the respondent State and Sri.John S. Ralph,

learned Advocate instructed by Smt.A.Amrutha Vidyadaran, learned

counsel appearing for the lady defacto complainant. 7. One of the main contentions urged by the applicant

accused is to the effect that the lady defacto complainant was residing

in the house of the petitioner's father, one Sri.Basheer at

Noolidampara on rental basis at the time when the alleged incidents

in respect of these crimes were committed. Further that at that time

she had illicit relationship with a minor boy named, Kajahussain, S/o.

Shahul, and he was found in the bed room of the defacto complainant

several times and he was found in possession of her nude pictures.

Further that the lady defacto complainant had sexually abused the

said minor boy, Kajahussain, and when this illicit relationship was

detected by the people of the locality, the defacto complainant has
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 7 :- 8. Some of the factual contentions urged on behalf of the

applicant accused are as follows: 9. In that regard, the applicant would contend that the

defacto complainant has extracted lot of money from him right from

the year 2014 to 2017 and that his passport details would prove that

he had come to India only on 8.5.2017 and departed to Saudi Arabia

as early as on 6.8.2017. Further that the allegations regarding the

molestation of the minor daughters of the lady defacto complainant

are absolutely false and there is no iota of truth therein and that it has

been made only with the evil intention to falsely implicate the

petitioner accused at any rate in a POCSO case. Further that the

WhatsApp messages sent by the abovesaid Kajahussain (as per

Anx.V) would prove that the defacto complainant is still continuing

her illicit relationship with Kajahussain and it is at his instance that

the lady defacto complainant has lodged the instant complaint
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 9 :- 10. Sri.P.Vijaya Bhanu, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the applicant accused would vehemently and strongly urge that the

applicant accused has been falsely trapped by the lady defacto

complainant with the connivance of the abovesaid Kajahussain and

that the applicant accused would fully and unconditionally co-operate

with the investigating agency concerned and that this Court may

grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner subject to any stringent

conditions. 11. The learned Prosecutor has filed a detailed statement on

behalf of the investigating agency. Various factual allegations and

contentions raised by the applicant accused are dealt with in the

abovesaid statement dated 25.5.2020 filed by the Inspector of Police,

Kuzhalmannam Police Station, Palakkad District. Since the various

aspects dealt with in the said statement are mainly factual in nature
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 11 :- 12. Sri.Saigi Jacob Palatty, learned Prosecutor appearing for

the respondent State would strongly urge that the investigating

agency has collected substantial materials to link the petitioner

accused with the crime and the accused could not be arrested as he

was absconding to avoid arrest for a quite long time and hence look

out notice has been issued against him on 14.2.2018. The learned

Prosecutor further submits that even according to the petitioner, he

has come to India very recently and if the petitioner is given

anticipatory bail, it would detrimentally affect the course of the

investigation and that the custodial interrogation is highly necessary

and imperative for the further progress of the investigation in these

crimes. It is also urged by the learned Prosecutor that the

investigation conducted from 2018 by the earlier investigating

officers and from 1.2.2020 by the present investigating officer and
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 14 :- 13. Sri.John S.Ralph, learned counsel appearing for the

defacto complainant has also been heard in detail. Sri. John S.Ralph,

learned counsel has taken this Court's attention to the famous words

of Susan Brownmiller, in her book "Against our will" that "The body

of a raped woman becomes a ceremonial battlefield, a parade ground for

the victors trooping of the colors". The learned counsel for the lady
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 17 :- 14. Further Sri.John S.Ralph, learned counsel appearing for

the lady defacto complainant would point out that crimes of this

nature using electronic media are on an alarming rise and that a quite

a large number of lady victims are also even taking the extreme step

of ending up their lives and alarming number of families get

destroyed in this process and minor girls like in the instant case are

also victimised and abused and due to the mounting number of such

cases, it is highly necessary that crimes of this nature are controlled

and that in the light of these aspects, the plea for anticipatory bail

may be rejected by this Court. 15. The learned counsel for the applicant accused would point

out that the present allegations raised on behalf of the lady defacto

complainant are untenable and wrong and further that even the

Police does not have any case of that nature. The learned counsel for

the defacto complainant would point out that these are matters which

should be effectively and properly investigated by the Police and if the
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 19 :- 16. The learned Prosecutor has also submitted that the

investigation has revealed that the petitioner accused has made

certain mobile conversation with Kajahussain, whereby he has

threatened and intimidated Kajahussain and that the said conversion

has been recorded by Kajahussain and the said conversion has been

recorded in a CD, which has been given to the investigating officer by

Kajahussain, and the said CD has been duly produced before the

criminal court concerned. The learned Prosecutor has also made

available the written transcript of the said alleged conversation that

is said to have taken place between the petitioner and Kajahussain for

the perusal of this Court. In that regard Sri.P.Vijaya Bhanu, learned

Senior Counsel would strongly urge that it is reliably learnt that even

the alleged mobile phone said to have been used by Kajahussain, for

those conversations has not been seized by the Police so far and the

CD containing the alleged audio conversations is bereft of any
 B.A.199, 201 & 208 of 2020 - : 20 :-