SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Bhakts on recent Judges issue {Whatsapp Forward Msg}
DATE: 2018-01-14
SCORE: 22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/7qadnp/bhakts_on_recent_judges_issue_whatsapp_forward_msg/

--- POST TEXT ---

As soon as the 100th satellite was launched into the orbit, Indians weren’t even given an opportunity to celebrate this historic moment. All of a sudden, for the first time in the Indian history, four senior judges of the Supreme court- J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Justice Madan B Lokur and Justice Kurian Joesph, made a press conference.

It is an extraordinary event in the history of any nation. There is no pleasure in this, we were compelled to do this, the administration of the Supreme Court is not in order.

We owe a responsibility to the institution and the nation. Our efforts have failed in convincing the Chief Justice to take steps to protect the institution.

We are nobody to decide, let the nation decide.

These were the statements made by J Chelameswar in the press meet. All their allegations were made on CJI Deepak Misra but what has led to suspicion is that MR Misra was appointed to the office on August 28th, 2017.

Isn’t it strange? Women have been ensured justice with triple talaq, terrorist are not given leniency, Lalu Yadav is jailed, several cases are filed against Rahul Gandhi and family, yet these 4 judges are feeling that Indian Judiciary is under threat.

Who is ICJ Deepak Misra, why is he targetted today? If you know his story, you’ll stand and salute him!

Now, the centre of this controversy is ICJ Deepak Misra. Before discussing whether the ICJ is right or wrong let us try to make an effort on who is this person.

It was due to ICJ Misra, the terrorist Yakub Memon was hanged to death!

“Justice Misra led the bench which rejected the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict Yakub Memon’s appeal to stop his execution. He then received a death threat in writing, an anonymous letter which says “irrespective of the protection you may avail, we will eliminate you.” But despite all dangers, he successfully punished Yakub Menon with a death penalty”.

ICJ had made Rahul Gandhi and Arvind Kejriwal to face a trial.

He was part of the bench that upheld the constitutional validity of criminal defamation provisions in the IPC. It said these did not muzzle free speech and asked the petitioners-which included Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal —to face trial.

It was this man who made the singing of national anthem compulsory in the film theatres.

Justice Mishra was part of the bench that ordered playing of the National Anthem in the beginning of a film in theatres.

The above examples are enough to decide what kind of judge is ICJ Deepak Misra.

Now let us focus on the judges who are making allegation on ICJ Deepak Misra!

Before knowing who are these judges, let me remind you that all these 4 judges met the political leaders who are staunch Modi haters soon after their press meet. I hope the readers are smart enough to know why they met Modi haters.

Who is judge J Chelameswar?

He was one among the rest who was staunchly opposing the implementation of Aadhaar card. After Aadhar card was made compulsory, billion-dollar scams were exposed but Mr J Chelameswar wanted to restrict the influence of Aadhaar card.

A three-judge bench of the Indian Supreme Court, which included J Chelameswar, ratified an earlier order of the Supreme Court and said that no Indian citizen without an Aadhar card can be deprived of basic services and government subsidies.

What is even more shocking is that J Chelameswar met the top left leader Raja. This has given rise to a big twist. Earlier, J Chelameswar said “let the nation decide” but now he is seen meeting a top left leader who has no respect for the Indian Armed forces and Indian culture.

“When you are confused whats happening, then use your common sense as to why Congress, Leftists, Urban Naxalites like Prashant Bhushan are supporting these judges. Congress is using its last resource aggressively to create Law &amp; Order problem across states”.

In the press conference, the judge J Chelameswar said, “We are nobody to decide, let the nation decide”. By saying this, the 4 judges trapped themselves. They said, let the nation decide, but to be frank, the people can do nothing but cast their vote once in 5 years. Even the Indians and even the judges know this fact very well, yet they said: “We are nobody to decide, let the nation decide”. This is clearly an attention-diverting tactic.

Even during the press conference, when the judges when were questioned by the journalists, they failed to respond with logical reasons. Isn’t it strange?

CJI Deepak Misra took the decision of opening up the files of 1984 Sikh riots.

CJI Deepak Misra is handling the ram Janmbhumi case.

CJI Deepak Misra is the only CJI appointed by the Modi government.

Now you know why the CJI is being targeted by the ecosystem.

Who are the people supporting these rebel judges?

A person named KTS Tulsi has come out in support of these rebel judges. Let us try to know who this man is named KTS Tulsi.

He represented Robert Vadra in Vadra-DLF land case.

He represented 1993 terror attack convict Devinder Bhullar and got his death sentence commuted to life imprisonment

He was nominated for Rajya Sabha by Congress.

The entire nation knows how Robert Vadra enjoyed in the Indian taxpayers’ money when Congress-led UPA ruled for 10 years.

Have a look at this tweet!

Looks like CJI Dipak Misra is giving Some sleepless nights to Congrbootlickerskers Justice Chelameswar and his gang.

Pls Note: Chalameswar is the one who opposed Aadhar recently.

Justice Gogoi father was a Congressi.

Justice Joseph Name itself is enough.

This was how a Twitterati expressed his suspicion.

This drama will be incomplete if Rahul Gandhi doesn’t make his entry!

“We are very concerned to hear 4 judges of the Supreme Court expressed concerns about the functioning of the Supreme Court. #DemocracyInDanger”.

This was the tweet from the official handle of Congress and do pay special attention to the hashtag used by Congress i.e. Democracy In Danger. So, Congress has hinted that they will start their dirty game on this issue.