The Rajdhani App Workers Union (RAWU) slammed Zepto’s Rural Mobilisation Program (RMP) for imposing “digital bonded labour” and exploitative working conditions on almost 50 delivery workers in Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. In a formal complaint with the Delhi Labour Department, RAWU accused Zepto of “pushing wages to below subsistence levels, while using the mask of involvement of an external vendor”, namely M/S Kilton Geo Engineering Pvt. Ltd.

As per a LinkedIn post by a Zepto employee, the RMP was launched in 2024 to create jobs for youth in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities. With RMP, Zepto aimed to “bridge the gap between urban and rural areas by offering employment prospects in Tier 1 cities where Zepto operates”, claimed Vivek Walunj, a Program Manager at Zepto. The post sought strategic partners or vendors to organise amenities and logistic support to facilitate the migration of such individuals.

Speaking to MediaNama, 30-year-old Zepto delivery executive Raju* states that he applied to join the program via an ad on the WorkIndia app. However, other delivery workers have contacted the phone number embedded in YouTube videos of the channel Israr A to Z to apply under the program.

As per a copy of RAWU’s official complaint viewed by MediaNama, the videos promote misleading claims of salaries of Rs 30,000 a month, with benefits like free food and accommodation for 42 days via the RMP program. The complaint adds that the recruitment drive targeted youth from rural areas of Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Madhya Pradesh, among others.

To begin with, workers have to bear all costs, including those of the delivery vehicle, contrary to the claims made during RMP’s promotion. Raju confirmed this claim, stating he had to shell out Rs 2,000 from his pocket as a deposit for renting a two-wheeler, which costs Rs 1,450 weekly.

The vendor also allegedly refuses to provide the workers the promised joining incentive. For instance, Raju claims that he is still awaiting his joining bonus of Rs 15,000, despite having joined Zepto four months ago.

Further, Kilton Geo Engineering refuses to transfer workers from a temporary to a normal ID after the 42-day period requirement for the RMP program. To explain, vendors receive a referral bonus ranging from Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 after onboarding a delivery partner. However, to accrue extra bonuses, a particular vendor forces riders to create fake IDs of their friends or relatives and work with the same.

Kilton Geo Engineering also deducts arbitrary amounts extending up to 50% of the worker’s total payout per week. “For example, if the rider’s total earnings after deduction of Zepto’s commission were Rs 10,500, they would siphon off Rs 1,000 or more during certain weeks”, Raju explained. However, when workers try to protest against these charges, they are redirected to the shift in-charge (SI) at the dark store, who later redirects them to the vendor, he explains.

For context, in contrast to regular delivery partners – whom Zepto pays directly – a vendor first receives the payouts for workers onboarded via RMP, and transfers them to delivery executives.

🚨Zepto's RMP Program Exposed Zepto’s Rural Mobilization Program is a modern form of digital bonded labour — exploiting vulnerable youth through deceptive recruitment and subsistence wages Watch this 👇 #Zeptoscam #gigworkers https://t.co/Yf0T2oVT34 pic.twitter.com/6WA8EIfKX7

The Union explained that the conditions at the hostel are subpar, with 10-12 workers forced to share tiny rooms. Also, the free food promise is a hoax, with workers receiving stale meals only after completing 100 orders per week. Raju further explains that availing free food is not feasible for workers.

“While Zepto may provide 100 orders or more per week to older employees, new joinees receive only about 50 orders per week, which makes completing this target impossible. It becomes unfair when the vendor levies such expectations”, he adds.

Finally, RAWU notes that Zepto and Kilton Geo Engineering refuse accountability for theft of the riders’ belongings at the Sangam Vihar hostel or for any accidents during duty.

While the workers claimed to have escalated the issues of unsuitable living conditions and fake IDs to Zepto’s management via email, they received no response. MediaNama also reached out to Zepto with the following questions on RMP:

While Zepto did not issue specific responses to all questions, they noted that the matter is under investigation. “We have a strict zero-tolerance policy for malpractice and have launched a full audit. At the same time, we’re conducting checks across all RMP locations to ensure every vendor meets our standards”, a spokesperson shared with MediaNama. The platform also noted that while it outlines the technology and clear guidelines for the RMP, its day-to-day operations and vendor oversight are handled locally by store management.

In light of the specific allegations, Zepto issued certain clarifying points as well:

Finally, Zepto stressed that the issue appears to be localised and not reflective of the broader intent of its RMP.

The alleged ill-treatment of workers at Zepto is not an isolated case. In April 2025, Zomato’s quick commerce vertical Blinkit deactivated the IDs of 150 delivery partners after they organised a strike against a “new form of slavery” forced on the riders. The workers demanded an end to mandatory work between 12 PM and 4 PM, shaded waiting areas with drinking water, and cotton uniforms for the summer, among other requests. Blinkit later reactivated the IDs of a majority of the workers, conditional on them refraining from participating in such “inappropriate work” in the future. Previously, Blinkit’s delivery executives have protested increased compensation cuts, effectively reducing their take-home income. Besides this, platform and gig workers have experienced occupational and safety hazards, with platforms refusing responsibility in certain cases.

Other worker unions like the Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT) have also rallied against the harms and mental pressure of 10-minute delivery services on gig workers.

While the case highlights mismanagement by one vendor, Raju expressed apprehension about workers being subject to similar mistreatment by others.

“What’s happening at one store is just the tip of the iceberg; this is a systemic abuse towards super exploitation, and we’re determined to fight at every level”, RAWU stated in a written statement to MediaNama.

Zepto’s rural employment drive could serve as a counter mechanism to the worker shortage in the e-commerce space. To explain, Zomato CEO Deepinder Goyal listed the paucity of delivery workers due to high demand in the quick commerce space as one of the reasons behind the slump in the food delivery industry. In contrast, during its Q4FY25 earnings call , Swiggy executives denied any claims of worker shortage, adding that the supply strain is expected during festive occasions.

Elsewhere, RAWU accused Zepto of “luring vulnerable workers from rural areas under false promises” instead of compensating partners fairly, via a social media post on X (formerly Twitter). Overall, while the Union has requested an inspection into the matter, it remains to be seen what changes and prerequisites (if any) Zepto would incorporate while onboarding third parties in their RMP program.

*Name changed to protect the anonymity of the Zepto worker

Note: The post was updated on May 20 at 7:13 PM to add Zepto’s updated statement.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event