The petitioner in this writ petition challenges two different

proceedings against her as evident from Exts.P1 and P8. Ext.P1 is relating

to de-registration of the Aadhaar machine bearing No.42080 allotted to the

petitioner for Aadhaar enrolment. The learned counsel for the petitioner

states that the fifth respondent appointed the petitioner for Aadhaar

enrolment at Koyilandy Municipality. The machine has been de-registered

on 26/09/2013 by the second respondent alleging misuse of Aadhaar

machine. This was communicated to the petitioner through email, which

has been produced as Ext.P1. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits

that de-registration is without giving her an opportunity of being heard and

without seeking an explanation from her regarding the alleged misuse.

Ext.P8 is an order issued by the second respondent imposing penalty of

Rs.2,500/- alleging that the petitioner, being an entrepreneur, registered

under the Kerala State IT Mission, misbehaved with a customer of the

Centre and, the District Collector took a decision to impose penalty of

Rs.2,500/-. Ext.P8 proceedings was generated against the petitioner while W.P.(C).No.24298/2013 -:2:- this writ petition was pending, challenging Ext.P1. The petitioner impugned

both the decisions on the ground that Exts.P1 and P8 are issued without

adhering to the principles of natural justice. 2. I have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner. Though

notice was served on the respondents, none appears for the them except the

learned Standing Counsel for the Koyilandy Municipality and the learned

Senior Government Pleader. 3. I have gone through Exts.P1 and P8. I am prima facie of the

opinion that those orders impinge on the rights of the petitioner, being an

entrepreneur of a Centre having valid registration under the Kerala State IT

Mission, and she is entitled to be heard before any adverse decision is taken

against her. The second respondent, who passed both the orders cannot at

any rate justify such orders, as the same are having adverse consequence

upon the right of the petitioner to carry her business in accordance with law.

Therefore, both the orders are liable to be set aside. Accordingly, those

orders are set aside. Now, the petitioner seeks relief permitting her to

re-register Aadhaar enrolling machine with ID No.42080, which was

originally accorded to her. In view of the discussion as above, the following

orders are passed: W.P.(C).No.24298/2013 -:3:-