1. This petition under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,

 1973 (' Cr.P.C .') has been filed with a prayer to quash the

 proceedings emanating from Bhubaneswar Mahila P.S. Case No.25

 of 2020, corresponding to C.T. Case No.1900 of 2020, for alleged

 commission of offences under Sections 376(2)(n) / 313 / 420 / 506 of

 Indian Penal Code 1860 (hereinafter referred to as ' IPC '), which is

 pending in the Court of the learned S.D.J.M., Bhubaneswar. // 2 // 2. The facts leading to the present matter, shorn of unnecessary

 details, are that the present petitioner and the complainant (Opp.

 Party No.2) met each other on Facebook in 2019, wherein a

 friendship blossomed between both of them and they gradually

 entered into a relationship after confessing their feelings for each

 other which also led to physical relations. On 07.05.2020, the

 complainant lodged FIR No.25 of 2020 in the Mahila PS, UPD,

 Bhubaneswar alleging that the present petitioner had kept physical

 relation with her without her consent and made her forcefully abort

 her pregnancy previously. However, she was pregnant once again

 and the present petitioner is not only avoiding to marry her but also

 cheated her of Rs.5 Lakhs. Investigation was immediately taken up.

 The petitioner filed ABLAPL No.3979 of 2020 before this Court and

 on 08.05.2020, as an interim measure, this Court granted him

 protection from any coercive action. The said anticipatory bail

 application was subsequently dismissed on 01.03.2021. Meanwhile,

 the charge-sheet was submitted on 05.07.2020 whereby charges

 were framed against the petitioner for offences under Sections

 376(2)(a)(h)(n) / 313 / 420 / 506 of the IPC and Section 27 of the Arms

 Act. 3. For the purposes of the instant proceedings, a perusal of the FIR

 No.25 of 2020 in Mahila PS, UPD, Bhubaneswar and subsequent

 charge-sheet dated 05.07.2020 become relevant at this juncture. Page 2 of 16 // 3 // 4. On the face of it, the FIR makes no mention of any specific date or

 incident of either the alleged forced physical relations or the

 pregnancy and subsequent abortion. It levels certain allegations of

 the petitioner absconding after cheating the complainant and her

 family of Rs.5 Lakhs. The charge sheet submitted on 05.07.2020

 despite being expressly detailed, however, is silent on any specific

 date or incident or other material details. It mentions that the

 petitioner and complainant met in Bhubaneswar and a relationship

 developed between them in real life through Facebook. When the

 complainant was in Kendrapara, i.e., in her native village, the

 petitioner had come to meet her with a marriage proposal which her

 family members had also accepted. The petitioner and complainant

 had engaged in physical relationship leading to the alleged

 pregnancy, which the petitioner had advised the complainant to

 abort. It threatens to imperil the future of a to-be born baby and

 potentially devastating impact on the life of the victim. Having

 realised the prefund impact of the abortion on her health, the

 complainant refused to do the same. However, the petitioner had

 allegedly pointed a firearm at her to intimidate and harass her, and

 also threatened to post obscene pictures of her on social media.

 Therefore, it is alleged that the complainant was forced to abort her

 pregnancy which clearly portrays that the prosecutrix is the

 innocent victim of male lust. When the complainant's family Page 3 of 16 // 4 //

 proposed to buy a car, it is alleged that the petitioner instead took

 Rs.5 lakhs from them to buy a second-hand car available in

 Bhubaneswar stating that it would be a cheaper deal and

 ultimately, ended up not purchasing the said vehicle at all and all

 the while placating the complainant that he would look into it. It is

 further alleged that the petitioner intentionally delayed marrying the

 complainant due to which she attempted to commit suicide and was

 hospitalised. After this event, it is alleged that members of both the

 families met, but the discussion for marriage did not materialize. It

 is with such a factual backdrop that the complainant was forced to

 file the present FIR No.25 of 2020 at the Mahila P.S., after which

 both the parties signed a mutual agreement at the Mahila P.S. to get

 the marriage solemnised within 15 days. It is alleged that

 subsequently the petitioner turned off his mobile phone and went

 absconding to avoid honouring the agreement. It is also pertinent to

 note that the FIR mentions that the complainant was pregnant

 again, but the charge sheet does not mention whether or not the

 same was found to be true. 5. A cursory glance at the other materials on record also bring the

 following facts to light: v. On 15.07.2021, it is submitted that the complainant got
 married to one Mr. Sailen @ Silu, Son of Shri Sarat
 Chandra Sahoo & Smt. Satyabhama Sahoo. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that no prima facie case

 is made out against the petitioner. All the allegations in the FIR are

 unsubstantiated and fabricated. No specific date or incident is

 mentioned in either the FIR or in the charge-sheet. All these

 attempts of the complainant are only a part of an agenda to wreak

 vengeance against the petitioner. The learned Counsel also earnestly

 contends that the petitioner had bona fide intentions of marriage

 with the complainant but upon learning that she had hidden her

 previous marital status from him, he could not allow such an illicit Page 6 of 16 // 7 //

 relationship to continue. His refusal to marry was subsequent and

 only based on the new information that had come to light. The

 physical relations between the petitioner and the complainant were

 regular and consensual and there is no evidence that the petitioner

 had engaged in forced physical relations with her. The allegations of

 rape are bogus and only allegation which is in an attempt to harass

 him. 7. Per contra, the learned counsel for the State vehemently opposed the

 submissions made by the counsel for the petitioner. He submits

 that the allegations against the petitioner are grave in nature and

 therefore this petition should not be allowed in the interest of

 justice. 8. Heard learned Counsel for the parties. On the basis of the rival

 submissions and with the assistance of the learned counsel, I have

 perused the FIR and all other materials on record. 9. Section 375 of the IPC defines the offence of rape and enumerates

 six descriptions of the offence. An inference as to consent can be

 drawn if only the same is based on evidence or probabilities of the

 case. "Consent" is also stated to be an act of reason coupled with

 deliberation. It denotes an active will in mind of a person to permit

 the doing of the act complained of. 10. Section 90 IPC defines "consent" known to be given under fear or

 misconception as follows: Page 7 of 16 11. In Deelip Singh v. State of Bihar 1, the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 prescribed the following two questions to evaluate/assess the issue

 of consent: 12. The determination of "consent" of a woman with respect to Section

 375 IPC must, therefore, involve an active and reasoned deliberation

 towards the proposed act. To establish whether the "consent" was

 vitiated by a "misconception of fact" arising out of a promise to

 marry, two propositions must be established. First that the promise

 of marriage must have been a false promise, given in bad faith and

 with no intention of being adhered to at the time it was given and

 secondly the false promise itself must be of immediate relevance, or

 bear a direct nexus to the woman's decision to engage in the sexual

 act. 1 (2005) 1 SCC 88 Page 8 of 16 // 9 // 13. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v.

 State of Maharashtra 2 has held that: 14. In Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v. State of Maharashtra 3, while

 dealing with a similar situation, the principles of law which must

 govern a situation like the present were enunciated in the following

 observations by the Hon'ble Supreme Court: 15. In Anurag Soni v. State of Chhattisgarh 4, the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has observed thus: 16. Similar observations were made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana 5; 17. More recently, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sonu v. State of

 Uttar Pradesh 6 has held that: 18. The settled position of law as it emerges from a perusal of the

 aforementioned decisions is specifically in the context of a promise

 to marry, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has time and again, observed

 as enunciated above that there is a distinction between a false

 promise given on the understanding by the maker that it will be

62021 SCC OnLine SC 181 Page 11 of 16 // 12 //

 broken, and the breach of a promise which is made in good faith

 but subsequently not fulfilled. 19. Furthermore, the law is well settled that inherent power of the High

 Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. should to be exercised sparingly,

 with circumspection and in the rarest of rare cases and not

 according to whims and caprice in a routine manner. When it is

 brought to the notice of the Court that grave miscarriage of justice

 would be committed if the impugned Criminal proceedings is

 allowed to remain in force and the accused would be harassed

 unnecessarily, the High Court can invoke the inherent power to

 prevent abuse of process of any Court or otherwise to secure the

 ends of justice. 20. In Sheonandan Paswan v. State of Bihar 7, the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court observed: Therefore, so far as mala fides are concerned, the same becomes

 important only when the complaint is patently false. In the present

 case, a bird's eye view of the FIR would show that the offences

 alleged are serious in nature and facts are elucidated in a manner 7 (1983) 1 SCC 438 Page 12 of 16 // 13 //

 such that the court cannot say that mala fide is conspicuously

 manifested in the complaint. 21. It is trite law as laid down by the Apex Court in Pankaj Kumar v.

 State of Maharashtra 8, that the scope and ambit of powers of the

 High Court under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. has been enunciated and

 reiterated by this Court in a series of decisions. Therefore, it would

 suffice to state that though the powers possessed by the High

 Courts under the said provisions are wide but they should be

 exercised in appropriate cases, ex debito justitiae, to do real and

 substantial justice for the administration of which the courts alone

 exist. The inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on

 the High Court to act according to whim and caprice. The powers

 have to be exercised sparingly, with circumspection and in the

 rarest of rare cases, where the court is convinced, that allowing the

 proceeding to continue would be an abuse of the process of the

 court or that the ends of the justice require that the proceedings be

 quashed. 22. In Rashmi Kumar v. Mahesh Kumar Bhada 9 while considering

 the power of High Court to quash the proceeding at initial stage, it

 has been held: 8 Social stability and order require to be regulated by
 proceeding against the offender as it is an offence against
 the society as a whole. This cardinal principle should
 always be kept in mind before embarking upon the
 exercise of the inherent power vested in the Court." 23. In this present matter, this Court is entirely conscious of the

 position of law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sonu v.

 State of Uttar Pradesh ( supra), Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v.

 State of Maharashtra ( supra) and Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar

 v. State of Maharashtra (supra) which have authoritatively laid

 down the law on the subject i.e. the manner in which Section 482 Cr.P.C. petitions have to be dealt with cases where an allegation

 u/s.376 of the IPC are levelled by a party especially in the backdrop

 of love relationships. However, this Court is constrained by the

 peculiar facts of this particular case, especially due to the following

 facts: 24. It also appears from the materials on record that the complainant

 has also indulged in questionable conduct by attempting to

 impersonate the petitioner online to humiliate and harass him. This

 Court also notes that the charge-sheet is silent as to any specific

 averments of dates or incidents made by the complainant. Given the

 two diametrically different stories putforth by the petitioner and the

 complainant, this Court is of the opinion that the veracity of their

 statements have to stand the test of trial to ensure that complete

 justice is done in the instant case. Since there are allegations and

 counter allegations between the parties, it is appropriate that the

 parties thrash out their respective stand before the trial court so

 that the truth may eventually emerge. 25. It, therefore, becomes important that the petitioner is made to

 face the rigour of trial in respect of the alleged offences in order to

 meet the ends of justice. This Court finds no ground to interfere

 under Section 482 Cr PC at this stage. 26. Considering the law laid down by the Apex Court in the afore cited

 cases, the aforesaid discussion, submissions made and taking into Page 15 of 16 // 16 //

 account a holistic view of the facts and circumstances of the case at

 hand, this Court is not inclined to entertain the instant petition.

 Accordingly, this Court being constrained by the facts and

 circumstances of the case, does not deem it a fit case to exercise its

 inherent power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. Consequently, the

 CRLMC stands dismissed. 27. However, it is clarified that the trial court shall proceed with a fair

 trial uninfluenced by any of the observations made hereinabove

 within a period of six months from today, if there is no other

 impediments. (S.K.Panigrahi)
 Judge

Orissa High Court, Cuttack
The 1st day of September, 2021/AKK/LNB/AKP Page 16 of 16