Five appeals have been filed against the order dated

June 28, 2022 passed by the Adjudicating Officer ('AO' for

short) wherein a penalty of Rs. 10.25 crores has been imposed

on noticee no.1, Texmo Pipes and Products Ltd. i.e. the

Company under Section 15HA of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as

' SEBI Act ') and Section 23E of the Securities Contracts

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as 'SCRA

Act'). A penalty of Rs. 20 lakh each has been imposed upon

noticee no. 2, Mr. Sanjay Kumar Agrawal and upon noticee

no. 3 Mr. Vijay Prasad Pappu under Section 15HA of the

SEBI Act. Similarly, a penalty of Rs. 10 lakh has been

imposed on noticee no. 4 Mr. Shanti Lal Badera and a penalty

of Rs. 2 lakh has been imposed upon noticee no. 5,

Mr. Rishabh Kumar Jain. 2. The facts leading to the filing of the present appeal is,

that the Board of Directors of the Company known as Texmo

Pipes and Products Ltd. passed a resolution on October 28,

2010 for opening a bank account with European American

Investment Bank AG (hereinafter referred to as 'EURAM

Bank') for depositing the GDR proceeds. 3. The resolution approved by the Board of Directors

resolved that a bank account would be opened with European

American Investment Bank AG (hereinafter referred to as

'EURAM Bank') for the purpose of receiving the subscription

money in respect of GDR issue. Further, Mr. Sanjay Agrawal,

CMD, Mr. Vijay Prasad Pappu, Whole Time Director and

Mr. Rishabh Kumar Jain, Company Secretary of the

Company was authorised to sign and execute an agreement as

may be required by the Bank and take such steps from time to

time on behalf of the Company. The resolution further

resolved to use the funds deposited in the aforesaid Bank

account as security in connection with the loan, if any as well

as to enter into any escrow account or similar arrangement if

and when so required. 4. Based on the aforesaid resolution, the Company issued

6,27,500 GDRs for USD 9.99 million dated April 11, 2011. 6 The aforesaid GDR was subscribed by one entity, namely,

Vintage FZE (hereinafter referred to as 'Vintage') and a

corporate announcement was made by the Company that the

entire issue was subscribed. 5. Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter

referred to as 'SEBI') conducted an investigation pertaining

to the issue of GDR by the Company. Based on the

investigation, a show cause notice dated July 16, 2019 was

issued to the Company, its Directors and Company Secretary

to show cause as to why suitable directions under Section 11 and 11B should not be issued for violation of Section 12A(a) , (b), (c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a) , (b), (c), (d)

and 4(1), 4(2)(f), (k), (r) of the Securities and Exchange

Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade

Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003

(hereinafter referred to as 'PFUTP Regulations'), Section 21 of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956

(hereinafter referred to as the ' SCR Act ') read with Clauses

32, 36(7) and 50 of the Listing Agreement and Section 23E of

the SCR Act. 6. The show cause notice alleged that pursuant to the

resolution dated October 28, 2010 not only a bank account 7 was opened with EURAM Bank but the Managing Director

executed a pledge agreement dated March 1, 2011 on behalf

of the Company based on which a loan agreement dated

March 1, 2011 was executed between Vintage and EURAM

Bank in which the proceeds of the GDR was to be kept as

security with EURAM Bank. The show cause notice further

alleged that the pledge agreement and the loan agreement was

not disclosed to the stock exchange and, consequently, the

investors and shareholders were kept in the dark. The show

cause notice further alleged that based on the pledge

agreement and the loan agreement EURAM Bank advanced

USD 9.9 million to Vintage which amount was utilised by

Vintage to subscribe to the entire issue. The GDR proceeds

were pledged as security till such time the loan was repaid by

Vintage. It was also alleged that the fact that Vintage was the

sole subscriber was not intimated to the stock exchange and to

the Indian investors. Further, Vintage did not repay the loan

and defaulted, as a result, the Bank adjusted USD

34,98,579.85 million from the GDR proceeds and,

accordingly, the Company and its Directors were charged

with violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and

Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 8 7. The AO after considering the evidence on record found

that the entire scheme of using the GDR proceeds to fund a

subscriber to the GDR issue was a fraudulent scheme and

violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3

and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. The AO found that the GDR

was subscribed by one entity, namely, Vintage and not by

four entities as disclosed by the Company vide its letter dated

June 18, 2015. The AO further found that on account of the

pledge created by the Company with EURAM Bank the funds

were not made available at the Company's disposal and the

same became available in tranches as and when the loan

amount was repaid by Vintage. Further, the loan agreement

was not disclosed to the stock exchange and to the Indian

investors. Further, the disclosure made by the Company to the

stock exchange that the GDR issue was fully subscribed was

misleading as the investors were not informed that the GDR

was subscribed by only one entity and, therefore, the scheme

hatched by the Company and its Directors was violative of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 and 4 of the

PFUTP Regulations. 8. The AO found that the non-disclosure of the loan

agreement and the pledge agreement was violative of Clause 9 36 of the Listing Agreement as well as Section 21 of the

SCRA Act read with Clause 32 and 50 of the Listing

Agreement. The AO, however, found that Vintage repaid the

loan amount over a period of time in installments except the

defaulted amount. 9. We have heard Mrs. Poonam D. Gadkari, the learned

counsel with Shri Anil Shah, the learned counsel for the

appellant and Shri Sumit Rai, the learned counsel with

Shri Mihir Mody and Shri Mayur Jaisingh, the learned

counsel for the respondent. 10. The appellants contended that the entire fraudulent

scheme was executed by the Lead Manager, Pan Asia

Advisors Ltd. and its connected entities and that the

appellants are a victim of exploitation by Vintage, Pan Asia

Advisors Ltd. and other entities. The appellants denied that

they have committed fraud or violated any provision of law

and contended that the appellants have been subjected to the

fraudulent scheme purported by Pan Asia Advisors Ltd.,

Vintage etc. The appellants contended that they were not in

any manner connected with Vintage. Further, they had no

knowledge about Vintage being the sole subscriber to the

GDR issue until the receipt of the show cause notice. The 10 appellants further denied that they had violated any clause of

the Listing Agreement and contended that all information was

duly disclosed to the stock exchange as and when a material

event had occurred. The appellants further denied signing the

pledge agreement and contended that it had never authorised

EURAM Bank to create a pledge and only came to know

when the show cause notice was issued. It was urged that the

GDR proceeds were utilised in accordance with the objects of

the GDR and there was no diversion of money nor has the

appellant indulged in any wrong doing. Further, there was no

complaint with regard any unlawful or disproportionate gain

or any loss caused to the shareholders or to the investors. It

was urged that the appellant, being a small Company, has not

played any fraud upon the market and violation, if any, is

confined to non-disclosure under the Listing agreement for

which purpose the penalty awarded was wholly excessive,

harsh and disproportionate. 11. It was urged that all approvals and compliances were

met by the appellant Company pertaining to the GDR issue

from BSE and NSE and filing with the Luxembourg Stock

Exchange for listing of the GDR which eventually led to the

approval and the issue of GDR. It was also urged that Pan 11 Asia Advisors Ltd., were renowned Lead Managers and

registered in U.K. and were known to have conducted several

GDRs and based on their reputation had appointed Pan Asia

Advisors Ltd. as Lead Manager who advised the Company on

how to proceed with the GDR without realising that they had

played a fraud upon the Company and its Directors. It was

contended that post GDR issue the GDR funds were moved

from the escrow account to current account with EURAM

Bank. Further, BSE and NSE approved the listing of

securities and Luxembourg Stock Exchange listed the GDR

for trading and filings were completed with Reserve Bank of

India ('RBI' for short). It was contended that the returns as

prescribed by RBI was duly filed by every quarter and within

the time provided for the purpose. As per the provisions of the

master circular issued by RBI dated 2nd July, 2007 it was

contended that the funds raised in overseas market was

required to be maintained outside India and if not utilised it

should be brought back to India when to be put to use. It was

contended that this circular was duly followed and returns as

prescribed by RBI was duly filed. 12. The appellant contended that as per the listing

prospectus the GDR proceeds were required to be utilised in

the following manner. (i) The modernization of machinery, equipment and

 technology and expansion of existing product

 range; (ii) The establishment of overseas subsidiaries to

 explore and cater to the needs of the international

 market; (iii) The repayment of debts; (iv) The investment in, amalgamation with and

 takeover of other entities; (v) Trading activities of non-recurring nature; (vi) As working capital for the existing and future

 expansion / Diversification projects of the

 Company; (vii) Setting up of power project for electricity

 generation through biogas up to 3MW. 13. It was urged that the proceeds have been utilised for the

purpose shown in the listing prospectus. 14. It was also urged that the appellants had engaged a

professional for managing the issue and other connected 13 matters post the issue. The appellant had appointed the Bank

of New York Mellon, USA which acted as a Depository

Bank. It was urged that all acts, deeds and things done were in

compliance with the applicable law. It was, thus, contended

that due diligence was complied at all levels and there was no

intent to get involved in any fraudulent scheme. 15. On the other hand, the respondent supported the

impugned order and contended that the modus operandi is the

same as has been dealt with by this Tribunal in a large

number of matters relating to the GDR issue wherein this

Tribunal has held that the nondisclosure of the loan agreement

and the pledge agreement was totally fraudulent and violative

of the Listing Agreement. 16. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties we find

that this modus operandi in the instant appeals is the same and

has been dealt with by this Tribunal in a large number of

matters relating to the GDR issue wherein the Tribunal has

held that non-disclosure of the loan agreement and the pledge

agreement was totally fraudulent and violative of the Listing

Agreement. This Tribunal also held that the Company and its

MDs were aware of the execution of the pledge agreement as

well as loan agreement and it was no longer open to them to 14 deny the existence of the said agreements. This Tribunal also

held that the Company and its Directors misled SEBI into

believing that there were more subscribers to the issue and not

one subscriber. 17. We also held that Company and its MDs were aware of

the pledge agreement, non-disclosure of the pledge agreement

and loan agreement invited penalty. Further, the corporate

announcement did not disclose the fact that the subsisting

pledge agreement facilitated the subscribers to subscribe to

the GDR issue. The corporate announcement was misleading

and presented a distorted version to the investors and created

a false version inducing the investors to deal in securities.

The aforesaid findings have been given in a large number of

matters decided by this Tribunal especially in Appeal no. 381

of 2019, Sibly Industries Ltd. vs SEBI and other companion

appeals decided on July 14, 2022, Appeal no. 438 of 2020, Aksh Optifibre Ltd. vs SEBI and other companion appeals

decided on June 27, 2022 and Appeal no. 28 of 2022, Praveen Kumar Hastimal Shah vs SEBI and other

companion appeals decided on July 6, 2022. 18. Consequently, in the light of the aforesaid decisions the

findings against the appellants in the instant appeals does not 15 require any interference nor we require to give elaborate

reasons. The findings of the AO are upheld. 19. There is no doubt that the proceeds of the GDR issue

was eventually received by the Company though belatedly

less USD 34,98,579 million which was adjusted by Euram

Bank against the loan default committed by Vintage.

Evidence has come that the same was utilized as per Listing

prospectus. Thus, there has been no diversion of funds and

there is no wrongful dealings in securities other than the fact

that a portion of amount was deducted by the EURAM Bank

for default committed by Vintage. The AO has himself given

a finding that no disproportionate gain is attributed to the

appellants. No finding has been given by the AO that any loss

was caused to the shareholders or investors. 20. Considering the above, we are of the opinion that the

directions given by the AO is excessive and arbitrary as well

as discriminatory. 21. In Excel Corp Care Limited vs Competition

Commission of India & Anr , (2017) 8 SCC 47, the Supreme

Court held: 22. Similar view was expressed by the Delhi High court in

Rajkumar Dyeing and Printing Works Pvt. Ltd. In Rajendra

Yadav, the Supreme Court held that the doctrine of equality

applies to all those who are found guilty. The Supreme Court

held: 23. Undoubtedly, the doctrine of proportionality is now well

established in our jurisprudence and is a recognised facet of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. In Andhra Pradesh

Dairy Development Corporation Federation vs. B.

Narasimha Reddy and Others (2011) 9 SCC 286, the

Supreme Court held: 24. In matters relating to punitive measures the emphasis

has shifted from the wednesbury principle of unreasonable to

one of proportionality. A disproportionate punitive measure

which does not commensurate with the offence would be

violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. We are of 18 the opinion that in the rapid growth of administrative law it

has become the need and necessity to control possible abuse

of discriminatory power by administrative authorities. In this

regard, certain principles have been evolved by Courts,

namely, that if an action is taken by an authority which is

contrary to law or which is improper or where the action

taken is unreasonable then the Court of law is duty bound to

interfere with such action and one such mode of exercising

power is to exercise the doctrine of proportionality. Where the

punitive measure is harsh or disproportionate to the offence

which shocks the conscience it is within the discretion of the

Court to exercise the doctrine of proportionality and reduce

the quantum of punishment to ensure that some rationality is

brought to make unequals equal. 25. A penalty has also been imposed for violation of Section

23E of the SCRA Act for non-disclosure under the Listing

Agreement. The imposition of penalty under Section 23E is

wholly erroneous in as much as Section 23E is not applicable. 26. In Suzlon Energy Ltd. v. SEBI , appeal no.201 of 2018

decided on 3rd May, 2021, this Tribunal held: 27. In this regard, the appellants have produced various

orders passed by SEBI against various companies and its

Directors wherein different penalties have been imposed for

similar/identical offence. In the instant case, the AO has

penalised the appellant Company of Rs.10.25 crore and the 20 Managing Director of Rs. 20 lakh. In similar matters lesser

 penalty has been awarded. For facility, a comparative table is

 given hereunder: 28. A perusal of the aforesaid table indicates that G.V.

 Films Ltd. had raised 40 million USD and the Company was

 only awarded a penalty of Rs. 25,00,000/-. Another Company

 Syncom Healthcare Ltd., raised 20.74 million USD and was

 awarded a penalty of Rs.25 lakhs whereas in the case of the

 appellant Company who raised 6.99 million USD has been 21 awarded Rs.10,30,00,000/-. In Sybly Industries Ltd. v. SEBI ,

appeal no.381 of 219 and other connected appeals decided

on 14th July, 2022 penalties ranging from Rs.10 lakhs to

Rs.10.30 crores were imposed which were reduced to Rs.25

lakhs on the Company and Rs.10 lakhs on the Managing

Director. Thus, in our opinion, the penalty imposed is

excessive and disproportionate to the violation and is also

discriminatory. 29. We find that such excessive penalty imposed upon the

Company does not make any sense. In the instant case, there

are public shareholders and workers. The Company is a

running concern. Penalising the Company with such heavy

penalty is in fact penalising the shareholders which is not

justifiable especially for a running company. Further, the

money raised through GDRs has been received by the

Company and has not been misappropriated. The same has

been utilitised for the purpose for which the GDR was issued

which fact has not been disputed. Thus, it is not a case of

defalcation of the funds. 30. Consequently, while affirming the order of the AO for

the violations committed by the Company we reduce the

penalty against the Company to Rs.25 lakhs. The penalty 22 against the Managing Director for Rs. 20 lakhs is affirmed.

Insofar as the appellant the Mr. Vijay Prasad Pappu is

concerned he was the Whole Time Director. Other than being

a signatory to the resolution there is no finding that he was

involved in the monitoring of the GDR issue. We are of the

considered opinion that the imposition of Rs. 20 lakh against

the appellant Mr. Vijay Prasad Pappu is excessive and we

reduce the penalty from Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. Insofar as

appellant Mr. Shanti Lal Badera is concerned, we find that he

was a non-executive independent director apart from being

the signatory of the resolution. He was not involved in the day

to day affairs of the running of the Company nor was he

aware or monitored the issuance of the GDR issue. In a large

number of cases, namely, Appeal no. 389 of 2021, Prafull

Anubhai Shah vs SEBI decided on June 28, 2021, Appeal no.

433 of 2021, Rajesh Shah vs SEBI decided on July 5, 2021,

Appeal no. 58 of 2021, Jaiprakash Kabra vs SEBI decided on

September 2, 2021 and Appeal no. 406 of 2020, Mr. Gurmeet

Singh vs SEBI decided on September 20, 2021 we have held

that independent directors cannot be penalized when they are

not part of day to day affairs of the Company. Consequently,

the penalty imposed against Mr. Shanti Lal Badera of Rs. 10

lakh is set aside. The appellant Mr. Rishabh Kumar Jain was 23 the Company Secretary in the Company. He has been

penalized a sum of Rs. 2 lakh only on the ground that he was

signatory to the resolution and that he did not act diligently.

In our opinion being the Company Secretary he was required

to sign and verify the resolution but was not involved in the

process of issuance of GDR issue nor was he involved in the

process of issuance of the loan agreement or the pledge

agreement. Thus, the question of him not acting diligently

does not arise when he has required to sign on the dotted line

as per the dictate of the management and as per the

regulations of SEBI. In our opinion, it does not amount to

lack of due diligence. In the instant case, we are of the

opinion that no penalty could have been imposed upon the

appellant Mr. Rishabh Kumar Jain. Consequently, penalty is

set aside. 31. For the reasons stated aforesaid, the appeal of the

Company, Texmo Pipes and Products Ltd. being Appeal no.

608 of 2022 is partly allowed. The penalty of Rs. 10.25 crore

is reduced to Rs. 25 lakh. The appeal of Mr. Sanjay Kumar

Agrawal being Appeal no. 605 of 2022 is dismissed. The

appeal of Mr. Vijay Prasad Pappu being Appeal no. 607 of

2022 is partly allowed. The penalty of Rs. 20 lakh is reduced 24 to Rs. 10 lakh. The appeal of Mr. Shanti Lal Badera being

Appeal no. 606 of 2022 and appeal of Mr. Rishabh Kumar

Jain being Appeal no. 604 of 2022 are allowed. The penalty is

set aside. In the circumstances of the case, parties shall bear

their own costs. All the miscellaneous application are also

disposed of. 32. This order will be digitally signed by the Private

Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned parties are

directed to act on the digitally signed copy of this order.

Certified copy of this order is also available from the Registry

on payment of usual charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Ms. Meera Swarup
 Technical Member
 RAJALA Digitally
 by
 signed

 KSHMI RAJALAKSHMI H

30.09.2022 NAIR
 Date: 2022.10.04
 H NAIR 16:59:20 +05'30'
msb