10/Dated: 3rd June, 2022

 With the consent of the parties, hearing of the matters

has been done through video conferencing and there is no

complaint whatsoever regarding audio and/or visual quality. 2. At the outset it requires to refer herein that three „Public

Interest Litigations being W.P. (PIL) No. 4632 of 2019; W.P.

(PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022 have

been filed by Arun Kumar Dubey and Shiv Shankar Sharma

respectively and have been ordered to be heard side by side. 3. In W.P. (PIL) No. 4632 of 2019, the petitioner has sought

for direction upon the Director, Directorate of Enforcement

and the Assistant Director (PMLA), Directorate of

Enforcement to investigate the fifteen FIRs in Khunti Police

Station and one in Arki Police Station Case pertaining to

involvement of Ram Binod Prasad Sinha and others

registered under Sections 406 , 409 , 420 , 423 , 424 , 465 and 4 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 , 12(2) and 13(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. In W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021, direction has been

sought upon Director General, Income Tax (Investigation) to

enquire into the money transferred of Soren Family in the

name of respondent nos. 8 to 13, through SHELL Companies,

as also to investigate the sources of income of private

respondents and investigate the financial crime committed by

respondent no. 6. In W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022, direction has been sought

to prosecute the Chief Minister-cum-Minister Department of

Mines for misuse of office in getting the mining lease in his

own name. 4. When the matter was taken up on 22nd April, 2022,

learned senior counsel appearing for the State has submitted

that similar issue was earlier dismissed by this Court, which

was affirmed by Hon‟ble Supreme Court. For ready reference, order dated 22nd April, 2022 passed

in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 is quoted as under: maintainable. (b) to recall the orders dated 22.04.2022 and 13.05.2022 passed
by this Hon'ble Court in Writ Petition (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 (c) To direct that sealed cover, if any, submitted by the Respondent
No. 5 (ED) pursuant to the order dated 13.05.2022, be returned. (d) Stay of all further proceedings in Writ Petition (PIL) No. 4290 of
2021 till disposal of the present Application (e) Ad interim orders in terms of prayers (a), (b), (c) and (d) above; Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for
the Respondent-State of Jharkhand has submitted that the
orders dated 22.04.2022 and 13.05.2022 in W.P. (PIL)
No.4290 of 2021 may be recalled, since the writ petition
itself is not maintainable, and as such, the sealed cover may
not be opened. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned senior counsel appearing
for the Enforcement Directorate, has submitted that the
documents have been submitted for perusal of the Court so
that the materials, which have been surfaced during
investigation by the Enforcement Directorate may be
perused, since, it would not be appropriate, at this stage, to bring
the documents on record, reason being that, the investigation is in
progress, as such, disclosure of the documents would seriously
hamper the progress of the investigation. This Court has heard the learned counsel for the parties on
the issue and thought it proper that the Court before proceeding to
open the sealed cover, deem it fit and proper to decide the
objection raised on behalf of the Respondent-State of Jharkhand. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.
 The question, which is required to be decided by this
Court at this stage, is as to whether the Court can look into
the documents and materials produced by the prosecution
before the Court without first confronting the accused with
these materials. The aforesaid issue fell for consideration before the Hon'ble
Apex Court in the case of P. Chidambaram-Vs.-Directorate of
Enforcement reported in (2019) 9 SCC 24, wherein, at
paragraph 55, it has been laid down as hereunder:- In view thereof, the prayer made on behalf of the
Respondent State of Jharkhand, so far as it relates to
recall of the orders dated 22.04.2022 and 13.05.2022
passed in W.P. (PIL) No.4290 of 2021 is, hereby, rejected. Accordingly, the sealed cover has been opened and the
documents have been perused by this Court. Let the records be sealed again and kept in the safe custody
of the High Court. So far as the other prayers made in the instant interlocutory
applications are concerned, the same will be considered on its
own merit. Heard the learned counsel for the parties on the merit of the
issue. Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned counsel appearing for the State of
Jharkhand assisted by Mr. Rajiv Ranjan, learned Advocate
General of the State, has raised preliminary objection regarding
maintainability of the writ application, on the ground of lack of
credentials of the writ petitioners. He has relied upon several
judgments of the Hon'ble Apex Court. He further submits that it is
not a case where the investigation is to be transferred to the
special Agency like the Central Bureau of Investigation, since there
is no F.I.R. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has submitted
that the credentials of the writ petitioner which has been taken as
a ground for dismissal of the writ petition is not worth to be
considered, since the embezzlement of public money is involved
and the Secretary (Mines) of the State of Jharkhand has been
apprehended from whose possession huge money has been
recovered. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the
Enforcement Directorate assisted by Mr. Amit Kumar Das, learned
counsel, has submitted that the State is making an objection for
investigation of the matter by the Central Bureau of Investigation,
but, very surprisingly no F.IR. has been instituted by the State,
even though the Secretary (Mines) of the State of Jharkhand has
been apprehended and incriminating materials have been
recovered from her possession and disclosure of names of the
high-ups of the State of Jharkhand and 5 others as would appear
from the documents contained in the sealed cover. As such, for
public interest at large, for fare investigation, it is necessary to
hand over the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Rajiv Kumar, learned counsel, has submitted by making
reference of W.P. (PIL) No. 4632 of 2019 that the issue pertaining
to embezzlement of public money under the MGNREGA Scheme is
involved, wherein, the Enforcement Directorate is proceeding for
investigating the matter, as such, these cases may be listed along
with W.P. (PIL) No. 4632 of 2019. In course of argument, it has been submitted on behalf of the
parties that 16 F.I.Rs. have been instituted and investigation of
the same is being conducted by the District Police, the said fact
has not been disputed by the learned Advocate General appearing
for the State. Considering the aforesaid facts, the learned Advocate
 General of the State of Jharkhand is directed to furnish the details
 of the F.I.Rs, date of institution of the cases as also the stage of
 the investigation. This is also a fact that the Mining Secretary of the State has
 been apprehended and has been suspended by the State
 Government. It is contended by the learned counsel for the writ petitioner
 that it would be apt to hear the W.P. (PIL) No. 4632 of 2019 also
 along with this in view of the fact that it relates to such matter in
 which one of the Junior Engineers and some accused have
 already been apprehended and certain directions were given by
 this Court. Let the aforesaid matter being W.P. (PIL) no. 4632 of 2019 be
 also placed side by side this matter on the next date of hearing. Since we would be directing the State Government to produce
 the details of those 16 First Information Reports, accordingly, let
 these matters be posted day-after-tomorrow (19.05.2022) at 10.30
 a.m. under the Video Conferencing mode. Emphasis Supplied

 On 19th May, 2022, when the W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of

2021 was taken up, it was informed that order dated

17.05.2022 passed in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and W.P.

(PIL) No. 727 of 2022 has been assailed before the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court and the same is likely to be taken up

tomorrow, as such following order was passed: The order passed by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Special

Leave to Appeal (C) No. 9729-9830/2022 reads as under: 2. On 22 April 2022, when Writ Petition (PIL) No 4290 of 2021
came up before a Division Bench presided over by the Chief
Justice, the Court recorded the submission of the counsel for the
State that ―an identical writ petition was dismissed with costs by
this Court filed by the same counsel and the matter went up to the
Supreme Court‖ where the Special Leave Petition was dismissed.
After issuing certain procedural directions for the impleadment of
the Registrar of Companies, the Division Bench directed that the
proceedings in Writ Petition (PIL) No 4290 of 2021 be placed along
with the records of Writ Petition (PIL) No 4218 of 2013 on 13 May
2022. 3. On 13 May, 2022, the High Court, inter alia, noted the
submissions of the State of Jharkhand objecting to the
maintainability of the petition. This was dealt with in the following
extract: 4. The High Court posted the proceedings on 17 May 2022. On
17 May 2022, the High Court, after perusing a sealed cover which
was tendered on behalf of the Directorate of Enforcement, noted
the submission of the petitioner that WP (PIL) No 4362 of 2019
may be placed along side the petition which the High Court was
considering on the next date of hearing and accordingly the
proceedings were adjourned to 19 May 2022. On 19 May 2022,
the High Court has passed separate orders in Writ Petition (PIL)
Nos 727 of 2022, 4632 of 2019 and 4290 of 2021. The High Court
posted the proceedings on 24 May 2022. 5. The Special Leave Petitions have been instituted by the
State of Jharkhand in order to challenge the orders dated 13 May
2022 and 17 May 2022 in Writ Petition (PIL) No 4290 of 2021. 6. We have heard Mr Kapil Sibal, senior counsel appearing on
behalf of the State of Jharkhand, Mr Mukul Rohatgi, senior
counsel appearing on behalf of the sixth respondent (Shri Hemant
Soren) and Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General appearing on
behalf of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Directorate of
Enforcement. 7. The sequence of events narrated in the earlier part of the
present order indicates that the High Court had, by its order dated
13 May 2022, specifically noted that it would consider the primary
objection to the maintainability of Writ Petition (PIL) No 4290 of
2021 and deal with the merits thereafter, if required, on the next
date of hearing. 8. Mr Kapil Sibal, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
petitioner has adverted to the provisions of the Jharkhand High
Court (Public Interest Litigation) Rules, 2010, more particularly the
provisions of Rules 4, 4-A, 4-B and 5. SLP(C) 9729-9730/2022 9. Since the High Court has observed in its order dated
13 May 2022 that it would deal with the maintainability of
the petition upfront, we are of the considered view that it
would be appropriate in the interests of justice that the
Division Bench presided over by the learned Chief Justice
does so before without proceeding to the merits of the
public interest litigation. 10. The issue of maintainability should be dealt with by
the High Court on the next date of listing when the
proceedings are taken up. Based on the outcome of the
objections to the maintainability of the proceedings, the
High Court may thereafter proceed in accordance with law. 11. The Special Leave Petitions are disposed of in the above
terms. 12. This Court has had no occasion to deal with the merits of the
rival contentions which arise in the Special Leave Petitions or nor
has it become necessary for this Court to express any view on the
allegations which are levelled in the writ petition since that is a
matter which is pending consideration before the High Court. 13. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.‖
 Emphasis supplied 15 It appears from the order passed by Hon‟ble Supreme

Court that the issue of maintainability has been raised in

W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022.

The aforesaid fact is also being corroborated from order dated

19th May, 2022 passed in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021. Mr.

Kabil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the

respondents-State of Jharkhand informed this Court that

order dated 17.05.2022 passed in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021

and W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022 have been assailed before the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court. It is apparent that a final order was

passed by the Hon‟ble Apex Court in the S.L.P.(s) filed against

our order. This Court, taking into consideration the order passed

by Hon‟ble Apex Court on 24th May, 2022 is proceeding to

hear the issue of preliminary objection with regard to

maintainability of these two writ petitions i.e., W.P. (PIL) No.

4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No. 727of 2022. 6. At the outset, during course of hearing of the matter,

this Court put a query upon Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel

for the respondent-State of Jharkhand as to whether he

would addressing the issue of maintainability in both the writ

petitions, i.e. W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No.

727 of 2022, he submitted that he would be only addressing

the issue of maintainability in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021. However, Mr. Mukul Rohatagi, learned senior counsel 16 appearing for respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of

2021, (respondent no. 7 in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022) has

submitted that he would addressing the issue of

maintainability in both the writ petitions, i.e., W.P. (PIL) No.

4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022 since

respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 is respondent

no. 7 in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022. In view thereof, we started the hearing on the issue of

maintainability on 1st June, 2022. For ready reference order

dated 1st June, 2022 is quoted under as: At the time of hearing, referring the aforesaid order of the
 Hon'ble Supreme Court, question was put to him twice by this
 Court as to whether he is raising the issue of maintainability in 17 both the matters i.e. W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No.
 727 of 2022. He submitted that he is raising the issue only in W.P. (PIL)
 No.4290 of 2021 and proceeded to do that. However, Mr. Mukul Rohatagi, learned Senior Counsel has
 submitted that he is raising the issue of maintainability as
 respondent no.6 in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and respondent no.
 7 in W.P. (PIL) No.727 of 2022. We have heard the parties on the
 issue of maintainability in detail. Put up these matters ‗For Orders'
 day after tomorrow i.e. 03.06.2022 at 10.30 a.m. 7. This Court, in order to decide the issue of

maintainability, deems it fit and proper to first refer the

factual aspect of the matter. 8. W.P.(PIL) No.4290 of 2021 By way of instant writ petition, the following directions

have been sought for: - 9. Facts of the case

 According to the writ petitioner, the money earned

through illegal means has been invested in the companies, as

per the details furnished in the writ petition under paragraph

2(A), the details of which is quoted as under:- It is the grievance of the writ petitioner that being a

citizen of the Country, he has drawn the attention on all

these malpractices of siphoning of public money through

these Shell Companies by filing due representation in this

regard but no action since been taken, the instant writ

petition has been filed. It has been submitted that if the matter will be directed

to be inquired from the Income Tax Department, the truth

will come on surface about the modus operandi of the

investment of money earned by the respondent no. 6 and his

political advisor. The writ petitioner has disclosed in paragraph-3 of the

writ petition about his credentials by making a statement that

he has no personal interests, either direct or indirect in the

subject of this public interest litigation. He has further stated

that other writ petitions in the nature of public interest

litigation are lying pending before this Court being W.P.(PIL)

No.1704/20, W.P.(PIL) No.2139/20, W.P.(PIL) No.4250/20, 20 W.P.(PIL) No.689/21, W.P.(PIL) No.416/21 and W.P.(PIL)

No.3819/20, in which also, ample of evidences are there to

establish the siphoning of the public money. It is, in this backdrop, the instant writ petition has been

filed for issuance of directions as quoted and referred

hereinabove. A supplementary affidavit has been filed on behalf of

petitioner on 21.04.2022 stating therein that prior to filing of

the instant writ petition, one Late Diwan Indranil Sinha had

sent representations, giving details of all the companies

accompanying all the relevant documents in support of illegal

earnings, before the Hon‟ble President of India, Hon‟ble Home

Minister, Hon‟ble Governor of Jharkhand, the Director, CBI,

The Director, Enforcement Directorate, The Central Vigilance

Commissioner and The Director General (Investigation),

Income Tax. Upon receipt of such representation by the CBI,

they enquired the matter on their own level and

communicated to him vide letter no. 376 dated 05.11.2014

stating therein that ―...if so desire, approach the competent

Court,......" It has further been stated that incumbent Chief Minister

of the State of Jharkhand has certain persons who works for

him and they are the investment agents and have been asked

by respondent no. 6 and 7 to take care of the business like,

mining, liquor and real estate. It has been alleged that business of mining is being

looked into by a group of persons, who are connected with

each other. The details of such persons have been given at

paragraph 5, relevant portion of which is quoted as

hereunder: According to writ petitioner, these persons are

connected with each other, in one company or the other just

to invest black money, therefore, it requires thorough enquiry

by the special agencies like Income Tax Department, Central

Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate, so that

investment of money through illegal means may surface and

laundering of public money may be restricted. It has further been alleged, as would appear from

paragraph 8, 9 and 10 of the supplementary affidavit, that

likewise allegations have also been leveled against SHELL

companies, which according to the petitioner are fake one.

The writ petitioner has also given name and details of the

companies in the affidavit showing that illegal money has

been transferred from one company to another. It has further been alleged, as per the information

gathered by the petitioner that total balance in the bank

account of Saran Alchohol Pvt. Ltd. was Rs. 57106.77 as on

20.05.2021 but in between 20.05.2021 to 24.06.2021

approximately Rs. Six crores was deposited from different

sources or through cash deposit and closing balance as on

25.06.2021 remained Rs. 12384.27. In the similar manner,

huge amounts have been transferred by the parties, namely,

Mackmorn Commodities, Alokik Heights to the tune of Rs.

Three crores and fifty lakhs approximately. Likewise details of

other companies have also been given in the affidavit. 24 In these backdrop, it has been stated that a thorough

investigation is required to be conducted which is not

possible by the district police since the high-ups in the

political side as well as in the bureaucracy are at the helm of

the affairs and as such it is a fit case where the investigation

is required to be conducted by the special agency like Central

Bureau of Investigation for the alleged swindling and

siphoning of public money. Petitioner has filed another supplementary affidavit

dated 27.04.2022 pointing out the names of the company,

which are dealing in the business of liquor from Kolkata but

the man behind the trade are Amit Aggrawal, Prem Prakash,

Abhisek Prasad @ Pintoo, Joginder Tiwary and Amrender

Tiwary and several other persons and ultimately handled by

one Vinay Kumar Choubey, I.A.S., Secretary, Department of

Excise and holding the post of Managing Director, Beverages

Corporation Ltd. It has further been alleged that the money trail is quite

clear as the companies which are dealing here in Jharkhand

has a monopoly over Liquor Trade and modus is quite simple

because Mr. Hemant Soren and Mr. Basant Soren are getting

major share of profit from these firms and these persons have

amassed not less than hundreds of crores out of this. It has also been alleged that Abhisek Prasad @ Pintoo is

considered as mastermind behind all the businesses of liquor, 25 real estate or mining, carried out in Jharkhand. He has his

own business which he is carrying on either through himself

or by his henchman i.e., Abhisek Prasad @ Pintoo, owner of

the company, viz., M/s Shiv Shakti Enterprises, Ranchi;

Dhavvadanga Mines having partnership with Tarun Mandal

located in Pakur. It is further alleged that M/s Shiv Shakti

Enterprises has obtained coal transportation work from

Amrapali and Magadh Project of CCL to Usha Martin

Industries under the threat to the Vice-President of the

company by Abhisek Prasad @ Pintoo. Further allegation has been made by stating that Mr.

Hemant Soren has also managed to get an area of 11 acres in

Chanho block for opening fisheries, food processing livestock

in the name of M/s Sohrai Livestock Pvt. Ltd., Sohrai

Bhawan, Harmu, in which, Mrs. Kalpana Murmu Soren and

Sarla Murmu are Directors. Further, Sarla Murmu is also

director of M/s Bihangam Builder‟s Developers Pvt. Ltd,

Kanke Chowk, Ranchi. The other directors in Bihangam

Builder‟s Developers are Nishant Singh and Nisikant Singh

and Mrs. C. Singh. In one another firm, namely Rakpur

Trading Pvt. Ltd, of which Ravi Kumar Sharma, Nishant

Singh were directors since 2017, Sarla Murmu became

director in 2021. Sarla Murmu is close relative of Mr. Hemant

Soren, thus, it is clear that whatever the assets M/s 26 Bihangam Builder Developers Pvt. Ltd have, it all belongs to

Mr. Hemant Soren and Mrs. Kalpana Soren. Two more supplementary affidavits dated 05.05.2022

and 18.05.2022 were filed by the petitioner. In those

affidavits also serious allegation of corruption and

embezzlement of public money has been made. 10. Counter affidavit filed on behalf of respondent no.1-
 State of Jharkhand dated 12.05.2022 on the
 maintainability of the instant Public Interest
 Litigation: Note:- The said PIL is yet to be numbered. It has been stated though masquerading as a Public

Interest Litigation is actually acting as a front of political

parties. It has further been stated that since the petitioner

has not approached any authority with his purported

grievances before approaching this Court and thereby, he is

misusing the judicial process, as such on this ground alone

the writ petition deserves to be dismissed. The judgment rendered by the Hon‟ble Apex Court in Esteem Properties Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Chetan Kamble & Ors.

(Judgment dated 28.02.2022 in Civil Appeal Nos.10425 of

2010 & 10764 of 2010), has been referred, wherein, it has

been observed that if the Court concludes that the litigation

was initiated under the shadow of reasonable suspicion, then

the Court may decline to entertain the claim on merits. Therefore, the writ petition, since having been filed with

extraneous reasons, is fit to be dismissed. More-so, the writ petition has been filed contrary to the

Rules formulated by this Court, i.e., under the Jharkhand

High Court (Public Interest Litigation) Rules, 2010 as also

contrary to the law laid down by the Hon‟ble Apex Court in 28 State of Uttaranchal Vs. Balwant Singh Chaufal , [(2010)

3 SCC 402]. It has further been stated that though the petitioner has

alleged that one Late Diwan Indranil Sinha had raised the

issues similar to those raised in the present writ petition but

has suppressed that said Late Diwan Indranil Sinha had filed

writ petition being W.P.(PIL) No. 4218 of 2013 on the self-

same allegations made by the petitioner in the present writ

petition, which was dismissed vide order dated 22.11.2013

imposing cost of Rs. 50,000/-. The appeal, being S.L.P. No.

4886 of 2014, preferred against the order passed by this

Court before the Hon‟ble Supreme Court was also dismissed

vide order dated 28.02.2014. It has been submitted that

conduct of the petitioner in suppressing material facts itself is

a good enough ground to dismiss the writ petition as has

been held by Hon‟ble Apex Court in T.N. Godavarman

Thirumulpad Vs. Union of India (2006) 5 SCC 28]. 11. Rejoinder to the counter affidavit filed on behalf of
the petitioner dated 11.05.2022: 12. Counter affidavit filed on behalf of the respondent
no.14, i.e., the Registrar of Companies, Jharkhand. An affidavit has been filed on behalf of the Registrar of

Companies, respondent no. 14, giving the details of four

companies which fall within the territorial jurisdiction of the

State of Jharkhand has been referred. However, the details of

rest of the Companies, since they fall under the jurisdiction of

Registrar of Companies, Kolkata (West Bengal), Patna and

some of the Companies fall under the jurisdiction of Registrar 30 of Companies, Delhi & Haryana and one Company registered

in Chhattisgarh and 2 Companies registered with Registrar of

Companies Cuttack (Odisha), the details of such companies

which fall beyond the territorial jurisdiction of this Court

could not be furnished. 13. W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022 The instant writ petition has been preferred pro bono

publico invoking the jurisdiction conferred to this Court

under Article 226 of the Constitution of India praying for the

following reliefs:- (c).For the direction upon the respondents CBI especially also to
 investigate the history of illegal mining committed by the person
 like the respondent no.7 and due to his official influence, illegal
 mining is done & public properties sold by Mr. Soren against the
 provisions of law to himself only. 14. Facts of the case: 15. Counter affidavit filed on behalf of the State as also
 the respondent no.7 who is respondent no. 6 in WP (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 Counter affidavit has been filed on behalf of the State by

 the Deputy Commissioner, Ranchi, namely, Mr. Chhavi

 Ranjan. It has been stated that the issue as to whether there is

 any violation of Section 9-A of the Representation of Peoples

 Act, 1951 and whether the respondent no.7 has suffered any

 disqualification by executing the mining lease is pending

 before the Election Commission of India in Reference Case

 No.3(G) of 2022 registered on the reference received by the

 Hon‟ble Governor of Jharkhand under Article 192 of the

 Constitution of India, in which, the notices have been issued

 to the respondent no.7 and as such, the writ petition may be

 dismissed since the matter is pending before the Election

 Commission of India. The respondent no.7 has also filed an affidavit stating

 inter-alia that the writ petition is not maintainable on the

 ground of credentials of the writ petitioner as also the notices

 have been issued by the Election Commission of India and as

 such, the matter is now being pending before the

 Constitutional Body, i.e., the Election Commission of India

 and therefore, the writ petition may be dismissed. 33 It has been submitted that the aforesaid mining lease

has been surrendered and as such, now there is no lease in

favour of the respondent no.7. It has further been submitted that the writ petition

suffers from the vice of mala fide inasmuch as the father of

the writ petitioner stood as a witness in a criminal case

against the father of respondent no. 7 v.i.z., Sri Sibu Soren,

in which he was convicted. However, the judgment of

conviction and the order of sentence passed by the trial Court

were reversed by the High Court, which was affirmed by the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court. Therefore, due to grudge, the son

who is writ petitioner herein, has filed the present writ

petitions, which shows mala fide on the part of the writ

petitioner and as such on this count alone, the instant writ

petitions are fit to be dismissed. Counter affidavit filed on behalf of Enforcement Directorate
dated 19.05.2022: 16. Argument advanced on behalf of respondent-State of
 Jharkhand and Respondent no. 6: 17. Mr. Mukul Rohatagi, learned senior counsel has

submitted that he is raising preliminary objection on behalf of

respondent no. 7 in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022 who happens

to be respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 in

addition to what has been argued by Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned

senior counsel appearing for the respondents-State of

Jharkhand. In support of his submission he has relied upon the

judgment rendered in Dataraj Nathuji Thaware Vs. State

of Maharastra & Ors [(2005) 1 SCC 590]; T.N.

Godavarman Thirumulpad Vs. Union of India & Ors ( 2006) 5 SCC 28] and Jaipur Shahar Hindu Vikas Samiti

Vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors [(2014) 5 SCC 530]. Further, argument has been advanced that the

allegation as has been leveled of obtaining the mining lease

by the Mines Minister of the State of Jharkhand is concerned,

it cannot be construed to be illegal, due to subsequent

development, i.e., the said lease license has been surrendered

without obtaining any profit/gain from the aforesaid lease. 18. Argument advanced on behalf of petitioner: 19. Argument Advanced on behalf of the Enforcement
 Directorate: As such, the objection being made by the respondents-State

of Jharkhand about investigation to be conducted by the

special agency has to be rejected as the State of Jharkhand

cannot and should not take steps for protecting the wrong

doers. If such act comes to the notice of High Court, it can

duly exercise power under Article 226 in order to unearth the

truth so that public money may not be left to be squandered. It has further been submitted, referring to the

documents contained in the sealed cover which was opened

by this Court, as would appear from the order dated

24.05.2022, that it is evident that the several incriminating

materials have surfaced not only against the Mining Secretary

of the State of Jharkhand and its connection with the Shell

Companies who are facilitating the investment of the public 42 money obtained through illegal means for the purpose of its

investment and laundering but it indicates involvement of

many high-ups. It has also been submitted, rebutting the contention

raised on behalf of the learned senior counsel for the State

about maintainability of the writ petition on the ground of

lack of credentials of the writ petitioner, that credentials of

the writ petitioner as per the decision rendered by the Hon‟ble

Apex Court is required to be seen only in order to see as to

whether prima-facie case is available for invoking the

extraordinary jurisdiction conferred to the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, so that, judicial

proceedings may not be misused by way of the Public Interest

Litigation. It has been urged that there is no dispute about the

aforesaid settled position of law, as has been held by the

Hon‟ble Apex Court in the catena of decisions. However, that

stage has already crossed since it is admitted on the part of

the respondent-State that the Enforcement Directorate has

raided the residence of the Mines Secretary, namely, Mrs.

Puja Singhal from whose possession huge amount of money

has been recovered. The State has put the Mines Secretary

under suspension, but very surprisingly no further action has

been taken against her. Therefore, the issue of non-availability of prima-facie

case cannot be said to be correct argument advanced by the

State of Jharkhand. It has further been submitted that the State of

Jharkhand is treating the writ petition to be an adversarial

litigation in such a manner as if it is intending to defend the

wrong doers. Since, the Enforcement Directorate has got ample

evidences of complicity of the high-ups of the State of

Jharkhand also on the political side, as such, for the ends of

justice, the investigation is required to be handed over to the

Central Bureau of Investigation. It is contended referring to the provision of Section 66(2) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, that there

is no provision conferring power upon the Enforcement

Directorate to institute FIR and as such, since, the State is

not instituting the FIR, now the Enforcement Directorate is

helpless, even though huge incriminating materials showing

complicity of bureaucrats and politicians with the Shell

Companies has emerged and the statement has also been

recorded showing nexus of the Shell Companies with the

persons sitting at pinnacle of the system of the State.

Therefore, on this ground also, the matter is required to be

investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation. 44 20. This Court has considered the rival submissions

advanced on behalf of parties on the issue. The conscience of

the Court has shocked to notice the fact that a senior I.A.S.

officer, namely, Pooja Singhal, has been apprehended by the

Enforcement Directorate and huge money has been recovered

from her residence. The concerned person as alleged and is

languishing behind the bar but as yet the said Pooja Singal

has not been implicated by the district police in the criminal

case instituted for embezzlement of MGNREGA fund, who, at

the relevant point of time, was District Programme

Coordinator of MGNREGA cum Deputy Commissioner,

Khunti. 21. This Court had put a pin-pointed question to learned

senior counsel for the respondent-State of Jharkhand that 16

FIRs were instituted in the year 2010 and even though the

senior IAS officer who happened to be the District Programme

Officer (MGNREGA)-cum-Deputy Commissioner during the

relevant time in the district of Khunti, why FIR has not been

instituted against her or she has not been made accused even

after lapse of 12 years, no reply could be given. 22. However, this Court, in order to decide the issue of

maintainability, deems it fit and proper to first refer certain

judicial pronouncement of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court on the

issue of entertaining the Public Interest Litigation. 45 23. There is no dispute about the fact that a person who

comes to the Court for relief in public interest, must come not

only with clean hands like any other writ petitioner but also

with a clean heart, clean mind and clean objective, as has

been propounded by the Hon„ble Apex Court in Ramjas

Foundation and Others v. Union of India and Others ,

[AIR 1993 SC 852] at paragraph 7 and K. R. Srinivas v.

R.M. Premchand and Others [(1994) 6 SCC 620] at

paragraph 7. It is necessary to take note of the meaning of expression

'public interest litigation'. In Strouds Judicial Dictionary,

Volume 4 (IV Edition), 'Public Interest' is defined as under: In Black's Law Dictionary (Sixth Edition), "public

interest" is defined as follows : In Janata Dal v. H.S. Chowdhary and Others ,

[(1992) 4 SCC 305], the Hon„ble Apex Court has considered

the scope of Public Interest Litigation and at paragraph 52 of the said judgment considering what is „Public Interest‟ has

laid down as follows :- 24. In the light of proposition laid down by Hon‟ble Apex

Court and argument advanced by learned counsel for the

parties, this Court is proceeding to examine the objection

raised on behalf of respondent-State of Jharkhand as also on

behalf of respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021,

who happens to be respondent no. 7 in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of

2022, who have raised following objections with regard to

maintainability of the writ petitions: 25. In order to settle the issue of maintainability, this Court

is taking up objection raised by learned counsel for the

concerned respondent one by one. Since objection No. 1 and 2 are inter-linked, they are

taken up together to be answered by this Court: 51 26. Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for the

respondent-State of Jharkhand has submitted that the

provisions as contained under Rule 4 of the Jharkhand High

Court (Public Interest Litigation) Rules, 2010 have not been

complied with, since, the petitioner has not submitted the

credentials. Learned senior counsel appearing for the State of

Jharkhand has submitted that since the writ petitioner lacks

credentials which is mandatory requirement as per

Jharkhand High Court (Public Interest Litigation) Rules,

2010, the writ petitions are not maintainable. The credential of the writ petitioner has been questioned

taking the ground that the writ petitioner has not furnished

the details, save and except the detail to the effect that he is

citizen of India and tax-payer, which according to learned

senior counsel appearing for the respondent-State of

Jharkhand is not sufficient for entertaining the writ petition 52 pro bono publico, in view of provision as contained under Rule

4 and 5 of the Jharkhand High Court (Public Interest

Litigation) Rules, 2010 and in view of the judgment rendered

in State of Uttaranchal Vs. Balwant Singh Chaufal (supra) in particular paragraph 181. It has further been alleged that the details about filing of

writ petition in nature of Public Interest Litigation have not

been disclosed while similar writ petition being W.P. (PIL) No.

4218 of 2013 was already filed, which was dismissed by the

Co-ordinate Bench of this Court with exemplary cost of Rs.

50,000/- and appeal preferred before the Hon‟ble Supreme

Court being S.L.P. No. 4886 of 2014 was dismissed. It has been submitted that under Jharkhand High Court

(Public Interest Litigation) Rules, 2010" provision has been

made that only those matters shall be treated as Public

Interest Litigation which involves substantial public interest

and for this the Bench hearing the matter shall ensure that

there is no personal gain, private motive or oblique motive

behind filing the Public Interest Litigation and shall first

verify the prima facie credentials of the Petitioner before

entertaining any case as Public Interest Litigation and

thereafter, may issue notice to the Advocate General or to

any other authority to come to a prima facie satisfaction

regarding the correctness of the contents of the petition or 53 information before entertaining the same as Public Interest

Litigation. Learned senior counsel appearing for the concerned

respondents has submitted by taking the plea of lack of

credentials of the petitioner as he did not disclose that on

earlier occasion similar matter was disposed of. 27. This Court, in order to delve into this issue, deems it fit

and proper to refer the Relevant provision of the Jharkhand

High Court (Public Interest Litigation) Rules, 2010 which

reads as under:- 4-B.Every Public Interest Litigation will chronologically mention
 in detail all such other and earlier efforts with their result,
 which are within the petitioner's knowledge, and which have
 been made by the petitioner or others for obtaining the relief
 sought by the Public Interest Litigation. 5.To encourage only genuine and bona fide Public Interest
 Litigation and discourage Public Interest Litigation filed for
 extraneous considerations, the Bench hearing a Public Interest
 Litigation shall first verify the prima-facie credentials of the
 petitioner before entertaining any case as Public Interest
 Litigation. Thereafter, notice may be issued to the Advocate
 General or to any other authority to enable the Bench hearing
 the matter to come to a prima facie satisfaction regarding the
 correctness of the contents of the petition or information before
 entertaining the same as Public Interest Litigation. 6. xxx xxx xxx xxx
 6-A.The above procedure may be relaxed by the concerned
 Bench, for reasons to be recorded, in cases which call for such
 urgent intervention by the Court that is not practicable to allow
 the delay which may be caused in following the above
 procedure. 9.The procedure in these rules shall be without prejudice to the
 power of the Court under Article 226 and 227 of the
 Constitution of India under which the Bench hearing a Public
 Interest Litigation, may in the interest of justice and to promote
 public interest, devise special procedure for satisfying itself
 with the credentials and bona fides for the petitioner and also
 find out relevant facts deemed necessary for the purpose of the
 case.‖

 It is, thus, evident that the matters shall be treated as

Public Interest Litigation which involves substantial public

interest aimed at redressal of genuine public harm or public

injury and further to encourage only genuine and bona fide

Public Interest Litigation and discourage Public Interest

Litigation filed for extraneous considerations, the Bench 55 hearing a Public Interest Litigation shall first verify the prima-

facie credentials of the petitioner before entertaining any case

as Public Interest Litigation. Thereafter, notice may be issued

to the Advocate General or to any other authority to enable

the Bench hearing the matter to come to a prima facie

satisfaction regarding the correctness of the contents of the

petition or information before entertaining the same as Public

Interest Litigation. There is no dispute that the aforesaid Rules have been

formulated in terms of the proposition laid down by the

Hon‟ble Apex Court in order to encourage only genuine and

bona fide Public Interest Litigation. Rule 3 of the Jharkhand High Court (Public Interest

Litigation) Rules, 2010, provides that only those matters shall

be treated as Public Interest Litigation which involves

substantial public interest at redressal of genuine public

harm or public injury. The words „genuine public harm or

public injury‟ and „genuine and bona fide Public Interest

Litigation‟, have got significance in the facts of the given case. So far as the provision as contained under Rule 4, 4-A,

4-B and 5 of the Jharkhand High Court (Public Interest

Litigation) Rules, 2010 are concerned, this Court, after going

across the aforesaid provision, has found therefrom

particularly from perusal of provision as contained under

Rule 4 that the petitioner in a Public Interest Litigation shall 56 state in clear terms of the relief prayed for in paragraph-1 of

the petition and grounds in paragraph-2 thereof. In

paragraph-3, the petitioner shall given his/her full and

complete details so as to reveal his/her interest, credentials

and qualifications relevant for the Public Interest Litigation,

along with a declaration that he/she has no personal interest,

direct or indirect, in the subject matter of Public Interest

Litigation. In addition, the petitioner shall set out all relevant

facts along with available supporting data, reports etc. 4-A of

Rules, 2010 is regarding a Public Interest Litigation is filed by

a person on behalf of a Body of Individuals which is not a

case here, thus, it is not being discussed. The provision under Rule 4-B of the Rules, 2010

suggests that Every Public Interest Litigation will

chronologically mention in detail all such other and earlier

efforts with their result, which are within the petitioner‟s

knowledge, and which have been made by the petitioner or

others for obtaining the relief sought by the Public Interest

Litigation. Rule 5 speaks about encouraging only genuine and

bona fide Public Interest Litigation and discourage Public

Interest Litigation filed for extraneous considerations, the

Bench hearing a Public Interest Litigation shall first verify the

prima facie credentials of the Petitioner before entertaining

any case as Public Interest Litigation. Thereafter, notice may 57 be issued to the Advocate General or to any other authority to

enable the Bench hearing the matter to come to a prima facie

satisfaction regarding the correctness of the contents of the

petition or information before entertaining the same as Public

Interest Litigation. It is only thereafter Public Interest Litigation shall be

listed with appropriate office notices under the heading "For

Orders" before the appropriate Bench. 28. This Court, in order to answer the issue of

credentials of the petitioner, has gone across the affidavit and

supplementary affidavits filed by the writ petitioner in the writ

petitions in order to scrutinize as to whether such credentials

have been given or not. From its perusal, it is evident that the

petitioner has disclosed that the petitioner is tax payer and

engaged in business for his livelihood. The petitioner has no

personal interest either direct or indirect in the subject

matter of instant Public Interest Litigations. The petitioner

obtained information through R.T.I Act and he filed several

Public Interest Petitions before this Court, details of which,

have been given in preceding paragraphs. It further appears

from the supplementary affidavit dated 21.04.2022, in

paragraph 3 that prior to him one Late Diwan Indranil Sinha

had sent representations with all the details of the companies

and documents before the Director, C.B.I as also to other

constitutional bodies. However, the C.B.I. responded the 58 same and vide letter no. 376 dated 05.11.2014 has stated

that ―....if so desire, approach the competent Court...". It is, thus, evident that so far as requirement under

Rule 4, 4-B or 5 of the Rules, 2010 is concerned, the

petitioner fulfils the same as he has given the required

declaration in the affidavit/supplementary affidavit filed by

him. It is relevant to note here that the concerned

respondents have not filed any reply to the supplementary

affidavit filed on behalf of petitioner on 21.04.2022. 29. However, the question is as to whether, merely on

the ground of non-compliance of technicality for filing the

Public Interest Litigation, should the Public Interest Litigation

be thrown out by the High Court even if incriminating

materials have surfaced. Reference in this regard may be

made to Rule 3 of the Rules, 2010 wherein it has been stated

that only those matter shall be treated as Public Interest

Litigation, which involves substantial public interest at

redressal of genuine public harm or public injury and for this

the Bench hearing the matter shall ensure that there is no

personal gain, private motive or oblique motive behind filing

the Public Interest Litigation. Therefore, prima facie consideration for furnishing such

detail, the genuineness of public harm or public injury as 59 also issue of personal gain or oblique motive is required to be

seen. 30. There is no dispute about the settled position of

law that procedure ought not be allowed to be given

preference over genuine Public Interest Litigation on ground

of technicalities. But certainly that principle will be applicable

if the Court finds that the Public Interest Litigation is filed for

mischievous consideration. It is also not disputed that the responsibility of the

Court is to decide controversies that have been brought

before it irrespective of the parties or the persons before it.

Reference in this regard be made to dictum rendered in

Cropper V. Smith, (1884) 26Ch D 700, wherein it has been

stated that "..The Object of courts is to decide the rights of

parties and not to punish them for mistakes which they make

in the conduct of their cases by deciding otherwise than in

accordance with their rights...Courts do not exist for the sake of

discipline, but for the sake of deciding matters in controversy.‖ 31. This Court, therefore, is of the view that even if

there is criteria under rule 4 or 5 of the Rules, 2010, and the

same has not strictly been followed but if there is prima facie

material available indicating genuine public interest, the writ

petitions should not and cannot be thrown away. The

petitioner can be ousted but not be genuine issues raising the

public cause. Doing that will frustrate the cause of justice. 60 In this context, it also requires to refer that, as to

whether procedural law which has been framed under High

Court of Jharkhand Rules, 2001 as Appendix 20 laying down

certain conditions under Rule, 4, 4-A, 4-B and 5 of the Rules,

2010 should be considered to be directory or mandatory. It

has been argued by learned senior counsel for the concerned

respondents, these provisions are mandatory to be followed

since it has been inserted in exercise of powers conferred by Section 29 of the Bihar Reorganization Act, 2000. It also requires to refer herein the judgment rendered in

the case of Salem Advocate Bar Association, T.N. Vs.

Union of India [(2005)6 SCC 344], wherein at paragraph 20

it has been held as under: 672, para 83)
 "No man should suffer because of the mistake of the court. No
 man should suffer a wrong by technical procedure of
 irregularities. Rules or procedures are the handmaids of justice
 and not the mistress of the justice. Ex debito justitiae, we must
 do justice to him. If a man has been wronged so long as it lies 62 within the human machinery of administration of justice that
 wrong must be remedied." It is evident that from the said judgment that no man

should suffer because of the mistake of the court. No man

should suffer a wrong by technical procedure of irregularities.

Rules or procedures are the handmaids of justice and not the

mistress of the justice. Likewise, in the judgment rendered by Hon‟ble Supreme

Court in Jai Jai Ram Manohar Lal vs. National Building

Material Supply, Gurgaon [(1969) 1 SCC 869], it has been

held at paragraph 5 as under: This Court prima facie is of the view that in such

circumstances, it will not be just and proper to go into 66 technicality holding the writ petitions to be not maintainable

rather for the ends of justice and public interest at large,

these writ petitions would have to be held maintainable. 32. Issue of suppression of W.P. (PIL) No. 4218 of 2013

has also been raised by the respondents. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that

the aforesaid fact is not required to be stated in the writ

petition reason being that the aforesaid writ petition was filed

by one Diwan Indranil Sinha and not the present writ

petitioner, however, he submits that he was the counsel in

the said writ petition also but the same cannot be said to be a

ground to dismiss the writ petition on the ground of

suppression of fact. According to him, the aforesaid writ

petition was dismissed by the Co-ordinate Bench of this

Court vide order dated 22.11.2013, against which, SLP being

Special Leave to Appeal (Civil) No. 4886 of 2014 was preferred

wherein the Hon‟ble Supreme Court has dismissed the said

SLP vide order dated 28.02.2014. He again preferred a writ

petition, however, it is stated that during pendency of the

same, said Diwan Indranil Sinha died due to cancer. He further submits that the aforesaid aspect of the

matter cannot be said to be suppression of fact on behalf of

petitioner since he has got no relation with said Diwan

Indranil Sinha. Therefore, argument which has been 67 advanced to dismiss the writ petition on the aforesaid ground

is not sustainable in the eye of law. 33. We have considered the aforesaid aspect of the

matter and gone through the order passed by this Court W.P.

(PIL) No. 4218 of 2013 as also order passed by Hon‟ble Apex

Court in Special Leave to Appeal (C) No. 4886 of 2014 and

found that writ petition was filed by one Diwan Indranil Sinha

and to that effect specific affidavit was filed by the petitioner

but no rebuttal or reply has been filed by contesting

respondents. 34. This Court, after considering the aforesaid aspect

of the matter and taking into consideration the fact that the

issue which is the subject matter of writ petition since involve

issue of siphoning of huge public money, having the public

interest at large, therefore, this Court deems it fit and proper

not to throw the writ petition on that ground. 35. This Court, on the basis of discussions made herein

above, is of the considered view that merely because the some

of the requirement as per Rule 4, 4-B and 5 of the Jharkhand

High Court (Public Interest Litigation) Rules, 2010 have not

been followed, the instant writ petitions cannot be held to be

not maintainable. 36. Accordingly, Objection Nos. I and II regarding

maintainability of the writ petitions are answered against

the respondent-State of Jharkhand and respondent no. 6 68 in W.P. (PIL) NO. 4290 of 2021, who happens to be

respondent no. in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022. 37. Objection No. III: The writ petitions have been filed

with mala fide intention since father of the writ petitioner was

the witness in a criminal case instituted against father of

respondent no. 6, namely, Mr. Sibu Soren, in which he was

convicted, however, the judgment of conviction and the order

of sentence passed by the trial Court were reversed by the

High Court, which was finally affirmed by the Hon‟ble

Supreme Court. 38. It has been argued by learned counsel appearing for the

concerned respondents that writ petitions are fit to be

dismissed on the ground that father of the writ petitioner in

W.P. (PIL) No. 4290 of 2021 and W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022

was a witness in a criminal case instituted against the father

of respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL) NO. 4290 of 2021, who

happens to be respondent no. 7 in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of 2022,

in which, father of respondent no. 6 was convicted, however,

the judgment of conviction and the order of sentence passed

by the trial Court were reversed by the High Court, which was

finally affirmed by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court. 39. Mr. Rajeev Kumar, learned counsel for the petitioner

has submitted that this cannot be said to be a proper ground

for dismissing the writ petition on the issue of maintainability

reason being that even accepting that father of writ petitioner 69 was witness in the said criminal case that does not mean that

the writ petitioner will be debarred from approaching the

Court of law or he will be debarred from his fundamental

right conferred by the Constitution of India merely on the

ground that his father was a witness in a criminal case

instituted against father of respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL) NO.

4290 of 2021, who happens to be respondent no.7 in W.P.

(PIL) No. 727 of 2022. In support of his argument, he has relied upon the

judgment rendered in Vishwanath Chaturvedi (3) Vs. Union

of India & Ors [(2007) 4 SCC 380]; Raju Ramsing Vasave

Vs. Mahesh Deorao & Ors [(2008) 9 SCC 54]; State of

Uttaranchal Vs. Balwant Singh Chaufal & Ors [( 2010) 3

SCC 402] and T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad Vs. Union of

India (2006) 5 SCC 28]. 40. This Court before answering the issue deems it fit and

proper to discuss the judgment, upon which reliance has

been placed on behalf of concerned respondents. Firstly, reliance has been placed upon the judgment

rendered in Jaipur Shahar Hindi Vikas Samiti (supra),

wherein at paragraph 49, it has been laid down as under: 41. Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondents

has further relied upon the judgment rendered in K. R.

Srinivas v. R.M. Premchand and Others (supra) in

partiuclar paragraph 7, wherein it has been held that it 71 cannot be forgotten that a writ petitioner who comes to the

court for relief in public interest must come not only with

clean hands, like any other writ petitioner, but must further

come with a clean heart, clean mind and a clean objective. Further reliance has been placed upon the judgment rendered in T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad Vs. Union of India (supra), wherein it has been held that howsoever genuine a

cause brought before a court by a public interest litigant may

be, the court has to decline its examination at the behest of a

person who, in fact, is not a public interest litigant and whose

bona fides and credentials are in doubt. Further reliance has been placed on the judgment

rendered in Dataraj Nathuji Thaware Vs. State of

Maharashtra & Ors [(2005) 1 SCC 590], it has been

submitted that Public interest litigation is a weapon which

has to be used with great care and circumspection and the

judiciary has to be extremely careful to see that behind the

beautiful veil of public interest, an ugly private malice, vested

interest and/or publicity-seeking is not lurking. It is to be

used as an effective weapon in the armoury of law for

delivering social justice to citizens. The relevant paragraph 12

and 13 is reproduced as under: seeking is not lurking. It is to be used as an effective weapon in the 72 armoury of law for delivering social justice to citizens. The
 attractive brand name of public interest litigation should not be
 used for suspicious products of mischief. It should be aimed at
 redressal of genuine public wrong or public injury and not be
 publicity-oriented or founded on personal vendetta. As indicated
 above, court must be careful to see that a body of persons or
 member of the public, who approaches the court is acting bona fide
 and not for personal gain or private motive or political motivation or
 other oblique considerations. The court must not allow its process
 to be abused for oblique considerations by masked phantoms who
 monitor at times from behind. Some persons with vested interest
 indulge in the pastime of meddling with judicial process either by
 force of habit or from improper motives, and try to bargain for a
 good deal as well as to enrich themselves. Often they are actuated
 by a desire to win notoriety or cheap popularity. The petitions of
 such busybodies deserve to be thrown out by rejection at the
 threshold, and in appropriate cases with exemplary costs. 13. The Council for Public Interest Law set up by the Ford
 Foundation in USA defined ―public interest litigation‖ in its Report
 of Public Interest Law, USA, 1976 as follows: This Court, therefore, is of the considered view that the

allegation of mala fide merely because father of writ petitioner

was a witness in a criminal case in which he was convicted,

however, the judgment of conviction and the order of

sentence passed by the trial Court were reversed by the High

Court, which was finally affirmed by the Hon‟ble Supreme

Court, is not sustainable. Herein, allegation as per the

pleadings available on record is serious in nature, i.e.

investment of ill-gotten money through various sources,

which is allowed to be laundered at the cost of society

jeopardizing interest of the people at large. So far as this objection being raised by Mr. Mukul

Rohatagi, learned senior counsel in W.P. (PIL) No. 727 of

2022 is concerned, the allegation of obtaining mining lease by

the respondent concerned being Chief Minister and Minister-

in-Charge of Mining Department, has been admitted by him

in his counter affidavit. It is a different thing that he may

have now surrendered the lease. Such being the admitted

position, the mala fide point or the issue of biased approach

by the writ petitioner would not be acceptable at all. The

allegation cannot be said to be a farce. What ultimately would

be the fate of the writ petition lies in the womb of morrow but

how such petition could be thrown away at the threshold? 74 43. Accordingly, objection no. III is decided against the

concerned respondents. 44. Objection No. (IV).The writ petitioner has directly

rushed to this Court without exhausting the remedy available

under the Code of Criminal Procedure . 45. Learned counsel for the respondent has submitted

that the writ petitioner has rushed to this Court by filing the

instant writ petition without exhausting the alternative

remedy available under the Code of Criminal Procedure to put

the police into motion by instituting the complain before the

police under Section 154 and 156(3) of the Code of Criminal

Procedure. In support of his argument, he has placed reliance upon the judgments rendered by Hon‟ble Supreme Court in K. R.

Srinivas v. R.M. Premchand and Others [(1994) 6 SCC 620]; Sakiri Vasu Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. , (2008) 2

SCC 409; M. Subramaniam and Anr. Vs. S. Janaki and

Anr [(2020) 16 SCC 728]; Sudhir Bhaskarrao Tambe Vs.

Heman Yaswant Dhage and others [(2016) 6 SCC 277}; Kunga Nima Lepcha and Ors. Vs. State of Sikkim and

Ors. , (2010) 4 SCC 513and Jaipur Shahar Hindu Vikas

Samiti (supra). Much emphasis has been given on the judgment

rendered in Sakiri Vasu Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors (supra), from perusal of which we found that in case of F.I.R. 75 not being instituted by the concerned Police Station then the

provision as contained under Section 154(3) of the Code of

Criminal Procedure is required to be resorted to i.e., by filing

complaint before the Superintendent of Police of the

concerned district. Even thereafter, if the F.I.R. is not being

instituted the remedy is available under Code of Criminal

Procedure by approaching the Magistrate concerned under

Section 156(3) of Code. 46. However, in the case in hand, prayer is for proper

investigation by C.B.I. of the matter since it is a matter of

money laundering and siphoning of public money by

investing it though SHELL companies. It is settled position of

law that such direction cannot be given under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as has been held by

Hon‟ble Supreme Court in Central Bureau of Investigation

Vs. State of Rajasthan & Anr [(2001) 3 SCC 333]. It has

been laid down in the aforesaid decision, while answering the

question as to whether a Magistrate can direct CBI to conduct

investigation in exercise of powers under Section 156(3) of

Code of Criminal Procedure or not, was restricted to the

question whether a Magistrate can direct CBI to conduct

investigation in exercise of his powers under Section 156(3) of

the Code. It was held by the Hon‟ble Apex Court as under: 76 47. This Court, after considering the proposition laid

down in the above case , is of the view that since in the

present case a direction has been sought to conduct CBI

enquiry, which the magistrate in exercise of power conferred

under Section 156(3) cannot exercise, therefore what has

been laid down in the case of Sakiri Vasu Vs. State of Uttar

Pradesh & Ors (supra) will not be applicable in the case in

hand. 48. Likewise, much emphasis has been given to the

judgment rendered in Jaipur Shahar Hindu Vikas Samiti (supra) submitting that the High Court as well as Hon‟ble

Apex Court dismissed the writ petition on the ground that

alternative remedy was available for redressal of grievance. We have gone across the judgment passed in Jaipur

Shahar Hindu Vikas Samiti (supra) and found therefrom

that civil suit was filed by the petitioner which was pending

before the Commissioner, as such the Hon‟ble Apex Court

taking into consideration the fact that the appellant-petitioner

has availed the statutory remedy, dismissed the SLP preferred

by the petitioner holding the same to be not maintainable. However, in the case in hand the fact is otherwise, since there

is allegation of siphoning of huge public money jeopardizing 77 the public interest and siphoning the national wealth as such

the judgment rendered in Jaipur Shahar Hindu Vikas

Samiti (supra) would not be applicable in the facts of the

present case. So far the judgment rendered in Sudhir Bhaskarrao

Tambe Vs. Heman Yaswant Dhage and others [(2016) 6

SCC 277} is concerned, law is well settled that in case of non-

registration of FIR or improper investigation by the police

remedy in the matter is available under the Code of Criminal

Procedure by approaching before the Magistrate under

Section 156(3) and the Magistrate on prima facie being

satisfied can issue direction for registration of FIR; if FIR has

already been registered, issue a direction for proper

investigation and monitor the investigation. However, at the cost of reiteration, it is noted that power

to handover the investigation to CBI is admittedly not there

with the Magistrate. This Court has also considered other judgments cited on

behalf of concerned respondents and after going through the

factual aspect and propositions of law laid down in the

judicial pronouncements of Hon‟ble Supreme Court, and

found therefrom that the judgments are on the issue of

entertaining the Public Interest Litigations with utmost care

and circumspect. There cannot be any quarrel with that

proposition at all but after careful consideration we could not 78 be persuaded by the respondents to throw way the writ

petitions at the threshold on technical ground in the given

facts and circumstances. 49. This Court, in view of the discussions made

hereinabove, is of the considered view that the issue of

approaching this Court without exhausting the remedy

available under Section 154, 154(3) and 156(3) of the Code or

Criminal Procedure is not available in facts and

circumstances of the present case reason being that in this

case direction has been sought for investigation of siphoning

of public money through independent agency, like CBI, ED

and Income Tax Department and such orders cannot be

passed under the aforesaid provisions. In view thereof the issue pertaining to approaching

this Court without exhausting the remedy available under

the Code of Criminal Procedure is not worth to be

considered. Accordingly, rejected. This issue is answered

against the concerned respondents. 50. It has been urged by Mr. Mukul Rohatagi, learned

senior counsel appearing for respondent no. 6 in W.P. (PIL)

No. 4290 of 2021 and respondent no. 7 in W.P. (PIL) No. 727

of 2022 that even if it is admitted that the lease has been

granted in favour of the Chief Minister who is having mining

department, the same having been surrendered already by 79 him, there would be no occasion for continuance of this

 proceeding. However, in our considered view what we will do on

 merit lies in the womb of the morrow. On that count we

 cannot hold the writ petitions non-maintainable. 51. Conclusion: