Retired Karnataka high court judge, Justice Anand Byrareddy has filed an interlocutory application before the Supreme Court to add himself as one of the petitioners challenging the provisions of the Aadhaar Act 2016.

According to a detailed report on Livelaw .in , Justice Byrareddy highlights that the Act does not distinguish between citizens and non-citizens, alleging that this leaves the system open to abuse and poses a “serious security threat”.

The highlights of the application include:

Justice Byareddy had initially filed a separate petition against the implementation of Aadhaar which was dismissed by the apex court . But he was given the liberty to file and interlocutor application and implead himself in the pending petitions. Former Karnataka high court judge, justice KS Puttaswamy, is the lead petitioner in the Aadhaar cases.

A report by Privacy International , an international organisation which advocates the right to privacy, noted that the scope of Aadhaar eKYC changed over the years which put people’s privacy at risk. It cited the different legislation which was brought up by the UPA government and the current BJP government.

Under the initial implementation of the Aadhaar database had only a single purpose: do the biometrics of a person match those stored for their Aadhaar number?

“So, when someone is seeking to authenticate their identity using Aadhaar, they do so either with their biometrics (either a fingerprint or an iris scan) or through a one-time pin (OTP) sent to their registered mobile number. This is checked against the data held in the Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR) database, and the reply is done on a “yes/no” basis: an individual’s Aadhaar number, and their biometric data or an OTP, is transmitted to the CIDR database, and an answer of only “yes/no” is returned,” the report said.

A legislation was drafted in 2010 called the National Identification Authority of India Bill where it stated that no other information other than the yes/no response could not be given. “However, this version of the legislation failed to pass both houses of the Indian parliament, and did not become law,” it said.

But the Aadhaar act drafted by the current government in 2016 called ‘Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, benefits and services Bill’ has some key changes. Rather than simply being the yes/no response originally proposed any other appropriate response sharing such identity information excluding any core biometric information is allowed.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event