PER DIVA SINGH

 The present appeal has been filed by the assessee assailing the
correctness of the order dated 29.03.2011 of CIT(A)-II Ludhiana pertaining to
2006-07 assessment year on the following grounds : (a) in making an addition of Rs. 4,22,74,454/- to the trading results by applying a higher G.P.
 rate. (b) in making an addition of Rs.90,595/- on account of alleged negative cash balance
 considering it as amount paid outside the books. (c) in making an addition of Rs. 16,384/- on account of 20% of the total cash payments exceeding Rs. 20,000/-. (d) in making an addition of Rs. 44,61,388/- on account of difference/fluctuation in foreign
 exchange rate. (e) in making an addition of Rs. 62,65,342/- on account of wrong interpretation of item sold. (f) in making an addition of Rs. 16,00,000/- on account of alleged under valuation of closing stock. (g) in making an addition of Rs. 28,792/- on account of freight recovered and not shown as
 income. (h) in making an addition of Rs. 1,79,018/- by arbitrarily adopting different method of valuation of
 closing stock instead of FIFO method being followed by the appellant. (f) in making an addition of? 1,53,440/- on account of non-production of freight bills / vouchers. (j) in making an addition of Rs.3,03,205/-on account of alleged delay in depositing TDS. (k) in making an addition of Rs. 2,82,520/- being expenses incurred on sample development.
 (1) in making an addition of Rs. 49,000/- on account of non-deduction of TDS on agency
 commission paid to C & F agents. ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 2 of 32 (m) in making an addition of Rs. 12,96,621/- on account of non deduction of TDS on re-imbursement
 of clearing and forwarding expenses. (n) in making an addition of Rs. 2,212/- on account of previous year's expenses. 2. The ld. AR inviting attention to the grounds raised submitted that in the
facts of the present case, the assessee is assailing the correctness of the order
of the CIT(A) wherein primarily and at the outset the assesee had
unsuccessfully challenged the action of the AO in making reference for a
special Audit u/s 142(2A) . The CIT(A) it was submitted has wrongly dismissed
the assessee's ground without caring to bring out what was the complexity in
the accounts. The decision it was submitted has been arrived at ignoring the
facts, the legal precedent and the statutory requirements. In the facts of the
present case the power has been exercised by the AO arbitrarily as there was
no factual or legal requirement for special Audit as there was no complexity in
the accounts which is the consistent claim of the assesee which the
department has not been able to upset and it has also been the assessee's
allegation that the power vested for a specific purpose was exercised by the AO
solely to extend the time available to the AO which allegation the Ld. CIT(A) was
duty bound to address by bringing out the facts which support the conclusion
that the accounts were complex necessitating a Special Audit. 3. Before elaborating the specific grievances which arise out of the arbitrary
exercise of power, it was his submission that he would first highlight certain
salient points namely; that the assessee is deriving income from export of
garments. This fact it was submitted is evident from the assessment order
itself. The assessee it was submitted has done no manufacturing activity or
value addition in the year under consideration. Accordingly, it was submitted
that the accounts of the assessee are that simple. Consequently, it was
submitted that the respective details of a manufacture namely purchases or
consumption of raw materials etc. were not maintained. It was submitted the
accounts clearly showed that the garments have been purchased by the
assessee on an as is basis and that too only when orders for their supply were
communicated to the assessee by M/s AlShree General Trading Company who
has been called as a buyer by the tax authorities and the party to whom
commission has been paid by the assessee. It was his submission that the
assessee is not interested what the department wants to call. The sole objection
of the assessee is that accounts of the assessee are simple. They show that
commission or discount, call it what you may, has been deducted towards
payment to M/s AlShree General Trading Company. The accounts it was
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 3 of 32 submitted are very simple and made available to the AO. Audit Report of the
assessee is placed on record despite this the AO deliberately complicates the
issues for himself and refusing to address the bare facts on record has
deliberately passed the order by passing the statutory requirements. Even
otherwise it was submitted whether it is called a commission or discount, he
would not want to debate the issue with the tax authorities and leave it to their
wisdom as the assessee has a business to run and is not so particular or aware
which definition is used or applied. The assessee merely argues that it is an
amount which has to be deducted for the services performed. Supporting
evidences have been made available to the AO who has not rebutted the same.
Proceeding on conjectures ignoring facts he chooses to treat it as a complex
case for reasons best left unaddressed. The undisputed fact on record which
remains on record is that the said concern i.e; M/s Alshree General Trading
Company is responsible for identifying markets/areas and parties where the
garments are sought and on the requirements of the said concern the assessee
buys the garments for onward sale which is directly sent to the customer
identified by the assessee's buyer/Agent i.e. M/s Alshree General Trading
Company. For the said exercise commission has been charged which may be
described as a discount given or a commission paid for the services of finding a
market for the goods and procuring orders. The fact remains it was submitted
that the efforts are of the buyer the purchase and sale is made at its behest
and no value addition is done by the assessee. For the purpose of logistics and
running around the assessee has been functioning. The business model of the
assessee, it was submitted, is pure and simple, wherein there is no complexity
in the accounts. Simply because the AO for reasons best known to himself
chooses to harass the assessee and at the fag end realizing that the
assessment proceedings may become time barred deliberately with a pre-
determined mindset impounds the books of accounts and issues a show cause
notice on the very same date and also makes a proposal for referring the matter
for special audit also on the very same date only to extend the time line which
is statutorily fixed. Such an action it was submitted may not be given judicial
sanction. Referring to the record it was submitted the AO in order to justifying
the action, proceeds to make random additions without correctly addressing
the facts based entirely on suspicions referring to irrelevant facts namely
comparing the assessee with manufacturers deliberately ignoring the fact that
the assessee was not a manufacturer. The AO makes no effort to rebut the
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 4 of 32 assessee's claim that the assessee was not a manufacturer. He proceeds to
make comparison with unequals i.e. firstly manufacturers secondly established
manufacturers who have a renowned name, reputation and brand in the
market and thus can dictate their terms to their Agents as to what commission
is to be paid to them. The terms can be dictated by them on account of their
reputation in the market which would invite healthy competition amongst the
commission agents to vie for the privilege / opportunity. In the case of the
assessee since firstly the assessee is not a manufacturer and secondly does not
have a brand name or any reputation of manufacturing garments thus there
are no commission agents who are vying for rendering services to the assessee.
In fact without M/s AlShree the assessee has no buyers or contacts in market. 4. The CIT(A) it was submitted has mechanically upheld the order.
Carrying the Bench through the orders of the respective tax authorities it was
his submission that no effort has been made by the tax authorities either to
meet the legal requirements for supporting the decision of referring the matter
to Special Audit nor any effort was made which can be considered to be
justifiably for necessitating such an action. The AO discarded the objections of
the assessee and proceeded to make the major addition by applying a GP rate
and also rejecting the claim of the commission/discount paid to the buyer who
was procuring the orders from different countries and different people and was
entirely responsible for this business. The facts have not been rebutted. The
conclusions are based entirely on suspicion. The rejection of assessee's
explanation supported by documents it was submitted is disbelieved merely on
self created doubts and suspicion without caring to bring a shred of evidence or
fact for rebuttal. The AO in the facts of the case has deliberately ignored the
correct facts and the CIT (A) has blindly accepted the order of the AO. 5. The other additions made it was submitted, are as a result of the said
action of the AO and though the amounts may be small apart from the G.P
addition, however, it may not be considered that the assessee has not
challenged those. These are challenged and reliance is placed on the written
submissions filed qua each of the additions before the CIT(A). These detailed
submissions made in writing available at pages 1 to 44 of the Paper Book, it
was submitted, fully addresses the additions made on merits and heavy
reliance is placed thereon. 5.1 It was submitted that it would be his endeavour not to repeat them in the
course of the hearing and merely reiterate that they are sufficient and complete
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 5 of 32 along with replies dated 9.7.2009, 17.07.2009, 29.07.2009; 06.08.2009 and
17.8.2009 filed before the AO and referred to and relied upon before the CIT(A)
mentioned at para 4 page 15 of the written submissions before the CIT(A). 5.2 Without prejudice to the main argument advanced that the reference for
special Audit was made arbitrarily only to extend time ; and the arguments
assailing the maintainability of the addition on merits addressed before the AO
and the CIT(A), it was his submission the rejection of the assessee's books of
account it was submitted, cannot be upheld. 6. In the said background, the ld. AR sought permission to address certain
relevant facts. Attention was invited to the order u/s 131(3) of the Income Tax
Act dated 15/16.12.2008. Referring to the same, it was submitted that
justification for impounding the assessee's books of account have ben set out
therein. Carrying us through the said order attention was invited to the even
dated order passed by the AO where he conveys his intention to refer the books
of accounts to the Special Auditor. Copy of the said letter, it was submitted, is
placed at pages 46 to 52 of the Paper Book. Emphasis was laid on the fact that
the said order is also dated 15/16.12.2008. Accordingly, it was his submission
that with a pre-determined mind, the books were impounded. No effort was
made to go through the same by the AO and then on the very same date he
concluded that the accounts were complex. No effort was made to show what
was the complexity in the accounts. It was highlighted that both the orders had
been signed on the very same date which by itself shows the pre-determined
mind of the AO to resort to the said section solely to extend time. Inviting
attention to the impounding order, it was submitted that this is also dated
15/16.12.2008

6.1 Assailing the decision for referring the case for special Audit, it was
submitted, reasons available in the order as recorded by the AO would further
throw light on this pre-determined arbitrary finding. Reading the said order, it
was submitted, it would show that the AO in para 2 makes a reference therein
to the fact that the GP rate in the year under consideration was 12.65% as
against 12.58% declared in the immediately preceding assessment year. It was
questioned that this increase in GP rate cannot be said to be a valid
justification for referring the books of accounts to the Special Auditor it was his
submission that had there been a decline it could have been an area of enquiry
but by itself that also could not be a ground for making a reference for Special
Audit. ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 6 of 32 6.2 In para 3 of the same at page 47, it was his submission the AO makes a
reference to the same facts as noted in para 1 of his impounding order of even
date u/s 131(3) namely that in the case of Canon Group of Industries in which
a survey u/s 133A was conducted, assessee's name was found which revealed
that accommodation entries had been provided. It was his submission that he
would file a copy of the order of ITAT in the case of Canon Group of Industries
to show that the allegations were wrongly made and the entire addition, infact
has been deleted. Copy of the said order dated 17.10.2014 in ITA
5410/Mum/2011 was filed to demonstrate the claim. Referring to the names
and particulars mentioned at Paper Book page 47 para 3 sub-paras (iii) to (vii),
which referred to statements some persons having been recorded in some
proceedings for the Canon Group of Companies etc. and also in para 3.1 at
page 48 of the Paper Book, the AO has concluded that accommodation entries
to the company and other concerns were provided and routed. The order of the
ITAT in the case of Canon Group, it was submitted, is available. The persons
making the statements were not made available for cross-examination etc. and
considering the legal position the additions were deleted holding as under : 6.2.1 Referring the aforesaid findings it was submitted that in effect the
addition was found by the ITAT having been made on assumptions and thus,
stood deleted. 6.3 In the facts of the present case also it was submitted this would apply
ipso-facto. Referring to the order it was submitted no addition is made
ultimately relying on any statement. The assessee also is not seeking relief on
the ground that statements of some unconnected persons have been relied
upon which have not been confronted as there is no such allegation against the
assessee. The said order of the ITAT is cited and placed on record and made
available only to show that similar arbitrary action by the Department did not
find favour with the ITAT and since a reference is made by the AO for justifying
a reference for Special Audit the order of the ITAT has been referred to show
that the said fact was completely irrelevant. The assessee in the facts of the
case would vehemently assail the departmental action on the grounds of the
unjustified arbitrary exercise of power by the AO. Thus, reverting back to the
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 7 of 32 Paper Book pages 46 to 50 which is the reasons recorded by the AO for making
a reference to the Special Audit u/s 142(2A) it was submitted, that after taking
note of these facts which are presumptions, suspicions and most definitely not
valid reasons for bringing out the so called complexity in the accounts; the AO
in para 46 available at page 49 of the Paper Book concluded that, "Since the
company has maintained the consistent G.P. ratio for last three years even the
genuineness of sales or exports is open to doubt, and is required to be
verified with reference to the purchase made genuinely or through the
accommodation entries. This factor further adds to the complexity in the
accounts in your case." The said reasoning was strongly assailed as being
biased and suspicious without any legal backing. 6.4 The AO thereafter it was submitted makes certain allegations in para 7
about Duty Draw Back which issues could have been considered by the AO
within the statutorily available time. It was his vehement argument that it
cannot be a justification for reference as there is no complexity. In para 8 it
was submitted he makes allegations that there is no day-to-day consumption
of raw material ignoring the fact that these details admittedly the assessee
could not have maintained as the assessee is not a manufacturer. Thus the AO
refers to incorrect facts to justify his actions. Similarly, in para 9, the AO
again it was argued refers to irrelevant facts and faults the assessee on the
ground that there is no separate trading or manufacturing account and
proceeds to hold that, "therefore, in view of the apparent complexity of accounts
in your case as discussed above, I intend to refer your case for special audit". It
was his submission that in the entire order, when read, it can be seen that
there is no justification what-so-ever to show how the accounts can be said to
be complicated or complex, the said exercise of deliberately referring to
incorrect and irrelevant facts so as to garb his arbitrary actions in order to
justify his actions with legitimacy only to extend the time limit, it was
submitted, is completely against the letter and spirit of law. The power having
been exercised arbitrarily, it was submitted, patently evident on record requires
that the order may be quashed. 6.5 Before addressing the cases which justify such an action, it was re-
iterated that it may be noted that the assessee has never claimed to be a
manufacturer. Attention was invited to the assessment order wherein in
Column-10 the AO describes the assessee as engaged in the business of
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 8 of 32 "Export of garments" and there is no reference to any manufacturing activity
either by the assessee or by the AO. The tax authorities it was submitted have
deliberately ignored relevant facts and referred to irrelevant and incorrect facts
to justify the stand taken. The assessee, it was re-iterated purchases the
garments as it is. Whatever is required to be exported is picked up as per the
requirements of the buyer these are sent without any value addition to the
parties directly from whom payments are received the discount/commission is
of M/s Alshree General Trading Company, the rest is paid to the assessee.
Thus, it was submitted that it is an accepted fact that there was no
manufacturing activity consequently there was no occasion to maintain
accounts for the said non-existent activity. Thus, no consumption register of
raw material etc. could be maintained or made available. In fact it was re-
iterated, it was a very simple case of M/s Allshree General Trading Company
getting orders from parties known to it / identified by it. These orders were
conveyed to the assessee who procured the garment and sent it at time directly
to destination communicated to the assessee. The garments were
consequently purchased and dispatched and after deducting their
commission/discount, the assessee received the payments. For reasons best
known to the AO he deliberately failed to address the correct facts and sought
to extend time by resorting to the statutory provisions arbitrarily. The exercise,
it was submitted, was based on incorrect facts and the AO having failed to
bring out anything in his order to show that it was a complex case deserving a
special auditor, the order deserves to be quashed and the assessment order
passed pursuant thereto also deserves to be quashed. All these facts were
before the CIT(A) who mechanically upheld the action. 6.6 The complete details and vouchers, invoices etc in support of the audited
books of accounts it was submitted have been produced before the AO as well
as the Special Auditors. The Report of the Special Auditors dt. 23/06/2009 it
was submitted is also available on record attached at Paper Book page no. 131
to 228. Thus it was submitted that infact there are two Audit Report available
on record. One filed under section 44AB accompanied by Audit Report in the
prescribed form in 3CA and the Report of the Special Auditor sought by the
AO. It was argued that through the Report of the Special Auditor is without
jurisdiction and thus invalid but even if the Report of the Special Auditor is
considered it would show referring to page 131of the paper book that the
Special Auditor records "paper books of accounts have been kept by the head
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 9 of 32 office and the branches" that it appears on examination that paper books have
been received for the purposes of audit; that the said accounts to the best of
my information "give a true and fair view subject to the comments given. Thus
it was submitted that patently the Special Auditor also does not assail any
document or details for carrying out an audit. The observation "subject to
comments" it was submitted has adequately been addressed in the detailed
replies to the AO. Attention was invited to books maintained by the assessee
which have been noted by the Special Auditor and refer to by him at page 137
as under: 24/07/2009 to the AO and evidences made available at the assessment stage.
Without discrediting any documents the addition has been made and
sustained which could have been considered with the statutory time limit
available. Attention was invited to page 83 of the paper books which is the
invoice available on record which depicts the name of the buyer, the consignee
the rate of commission as 12.59%. Copies of the same it was submitted are
placed alongwith letter dt. 29/07/2009 available at page 245 to 327. The
documents referring to at Sl. No. 23 to 34 made available to the AO specifically
explained the factual position. For ready reference it is reproduced hereunder: (b ).l n th is c as e M/s J ai P ar kes h T r ad i n g wa s th e c us to me r of Al Shre e
 Ge ne r al T r ad i n g. M a te ri al was d i rec tl y d el ive re d to hi m as p er i ns tr u c tio n
 of M/s Al Sh re e Ge n er al T r ad i n g. D ur i n g th e ye ar dif f eren t i nv oi ces we r e
 iss u ed s ho wi n g M/ s J ai P ar k es h as C o n si g ne e an d o n S h ipp i n g Al S h re e
 Ge ne r al T r ad i n g wa s s ho wn as A c tu al B u yer . (c ). In th i s c as e al s o th e n am e of Al Shr ee Ge ne r al T r ad i n g is ap pe ar i n g as
 bu ye r o n Exp or t In v o ice s

 2 5. D u ri n g th e ye ar we h av e no t acc o u n te d f or the dif f erenc e i n
 exc h an g e . B u t i n th e ye ar F i n an c i al Y e ar 2 0 0 6- 0 7l v e _ H av e ac co u n ted f or
 th e d if f erence i n ex c h an g e of the Fi n an c i al Y e ar 2 0 0 5- 0 6. T o tal f igu re of
 dif f erenc e i n ex c h an ge (c re d i t b al an ce ) a mo u n ti n g to R s. 5 9 , 6 8 , 5 3 6 /- h as
 sh o wn i n th e B al an c e S h ee Lof the F i n an c i al Ye ar 2 0 0 6- 0 7 . 2 6. C om m iss io n @1 2. 5% was p ai d to M /s Al S h ree G e ne r al T r ad i n g f or
 pro c ur em e n t of expor t o rd er s an d re al i z a t io n of pay me n t. Co m mi ss io n was
 p ai d o nl y af te r re al iz a ti o n of expor t b il l . No co mm is si o n was p ai d f or
 p ar tl y r e al i ze d b il l s. T he c om p an y is no t i nco rp or a te d i n In d i a. T he ag e n t
 is no n r es id e n t an d h as no rep re se n t ati v e b ase d i n In d i a. H en ce no T ax
 wa s de d uc te d a t so u rce o n p ay me n t of comm is si o n. 3 0. D if f erence of Rs. 3 4. 2 3, 8 8 0 /- h as bee n wr o n gl y c al c ul ate d a t s al e
 pr ice . Fo r v al u ati o n of cl osin g s tock p u rc h as e p ri ce s h o ul d be t ak e n
 Rs. 4 0 0 /- . 3 1. T he o r i gi n al s al es bil l s are i mp o u nd ed by yo ur goo d self and gi ve us
 an opp or tu n i ty to tr a ce o u t th e b il l n o 2 6 4 o u t of the i mpo u n de d rec or d. 32. T her e we r e to t al 1 0 6 n u mb er s of c ance l l ed b il l s no t i n th e s al es
 ac co u n t. O u t of th es e 1 0 6 bil l s. 1 5 n u m ber s of bil l s we r e re l ated to A u to
 P ar ts wh il e 9 1 n u mb ers we r e of g ar me n ts . 3 3. Co pi es of Expor t i nvo ic es as p er P ar a F- 9 ar e e n cl ose d. 3 4. O n th e b as is o f inti m ati o n of Al S h ree G e ne r al T r ad i n g P ay me n ts
 rec ei ve d f rom dif f eren t p ar ti e s we r e tr an sf erre d to Al S h ree G e ne r al
 T r adi n g acc o u n t. Co pie s of al l the l e tte r s we r e p rov i de d to t he au d i to r f or
 th e ve rif ic ati o n an d e ncl o se d f or yo ur r ef ere nc e. 6.8 The assessee, it was submitted, has made detailed submissions to the
AO objecting to making reference to the Special Auditor which is placed at
pages 51 to 53 the arguments and are not being repeated and it was his prayer
that these may be considered as reliance is being placed thereon. It was
submitted that the assessee took up this issue even before the CIT(A) and these
objections are part of the submissions made before the CIT(A) placed at page 1
to 45 of the PB. These specific objections are available at pages 1 to 45 and is
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 11 of 32 specifically briefly encapsulated at pages 2 to 6. Thereafter, the assessee has
objected to the other reasons to refer the case to a Special Auditor and the
objections of the assessee were supported by the decisions of Courts and
Tribunals. These arguments have been referred to from pages 6 onwards of the
Paper Book, however, at this stage it was submitted he would not go into those
and he would instead invite attention to the compilation of the judgements filed
which are heavily relied upon. For this specific purpose, attention was invited
to judgement of the jurisdictional High Court mentioned at Sr.No. 1 which is
the judgement of the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in the case of Hind
Samachar Ltd. V ACIT 335 ITR 277 (P&H) available at Paper Book page 1 to 5. Referring to the same, it was submitted that the Hon'ble Court has very
categorically held that the condition precedent for referring the matter to the
SPECIAL AUDIT--UNDER SECTION 142(2A)DIRECTING a SPECIAL AUDIT should be that
the --ASSESSING OFFICER SHOULD BE SATISFIED THAT the ACCOUNTS WERE
COMPLEX AND SPECIAL AUDIT WAS NECESSARY. It was his submission that in
the facts of the said decision, the Court found that the reasons for special audit
were not mentioned. In the facts of the present case, it was submitted reasons
are factually and deliberately incorrect and infact for justification of the order,
there is also in fact no reason given by the AO. 6.9 Inviting attention to the decision mentioned at Sr.No. 2 which is a
decision of the Gujrat High Court in the case of Alidhara Textool
Engineering P.Ltd. & ors V DCIT 332 ITR 115 (Guj) it was submitted that
the Hon'ble Court was pleased to note that for justifying special audit, the AO
must demonstrate that accounts were complex. The Court found that where
no evidence had been placed by the AO demonstrating that the accounts were
complex, the consequent assessment was held to be not valid. The said
decision, it was submitted, fully applies to the present case also. 6.10 Similar was the position, it was submitted, which had been noted by the
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case of Delhi Development Authority &
another V Union of India & another 350 ITR 432 (Del). Attention was
invited to pages 13 to 42 of the Paper Book which contains copy of the said
decision. In the said decision also, it was submitted, the Court in
unambiguous terms held that the condition precedent for direction for special
Audit is the complexity of accounts and safeguarding interests of Revenue. The
conditions it was submitted have been held to be cumulative. The Court held,
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 12 of 32 where the books of account were maintained in accordance with law and were
not examined and there was no evidence that accounts were complex, notice on
basis of notes of accounts has been held to be not valid. In the facts of the
present case also it was submitted that the impounding order and
reference order of even date showed that the AO has concluded with pre
determined mind to exercise the power sans facts. The reasons set out by
the AO show that nothing has been brought on record to show either
complexity in the accounts or the interest of Revenue being served. The
exercise it was submitted was solely to extend time. It was his submission
that the power is not vested to harass the assessee to circumvent the law
and extend the time limit available to the AO. 6.11 Reliance was also placed upon the order of the Pune Bench of the
Tribunal in the case of ITO V Vilsons Particle Board Industries Ltd., copy
placed at pages 43 to 78 reported in 55 ITR 114 (Tribunal) (Pune). 6.12 Reliance was also placed on the decision of the Apex Court in Rajesh Kumar
287 ITR 91 (SC) and also the decision in the case of Sahara India (Firm) 300 ITR 403
(SC). 6.13 Thus, it was his submission that the direction for special Audit which
has been assailed before the AO as well as the CIT(A) in the facts of the present
case was not maintainable. The grant of approval by the higher authority, it
was submitted mechanically given becomes meaningless. The approval should
be granted having regard to the materials on record. Material available on record, it
was submitted, would necessitate the explanation given by the assessee by way of
objections etc. if any, as it would be a relevant factor. It was submitted that had
this exercise been done with an open mind the approving authority would have
been in a position to point out the defect in the AO's approach and thus he would
have been in a position to direct the AO to complete the process of the assessment
within the specified time so as to save the Revenue from suffering any loss. It was
submitted that while exercising his power, it is the Assessing Officer and only the
AO who has to form an opinion. His reasons are final so far as he is concerned
albeit subject to approval of the Chief Commissioner or the Pr. Commissioner, as
the case may be. It is only at that stage that he is required to consider the matter
and not at a subsequent stage i.e. after the grant of approval. ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 13 of 32 7. Accordingly, it was his submission that on each of the issues on the
merits of the individual additions sustained he would be heavily relying upon
the written submission made before the CIT(Appeals) available in the Paper
Book. Carrying us through the manner in which these were considered by the
CIT(A) it was his submission that without addressing the submissions, the
additions had also been confirmed by the CIT(A) in a mechanical manner. 7.1 Inviting attention to the major addition made by the AO it was submitted
that no reasons have been given by the AO for justification of the application of
the rate of 12.5%. It was questioned why not 12.6% or 15%. It was submitted
that the AO or the CIT(A) do not deem it appropriate to either address these
issues nor do they consider it worth giving justification for. It was submitted
that it is not a case that there was any lack of evidences or there were
insufficient evidences. All the details were available before the AO, the copies of
invoices have been placed on record, the buyer has been identified; orders are
procured/identified by the buyer. None of these are faulted or questioned.
Simply because the AO for no stated reasons on record does not want to believe
the documents, he proceeds arbitrarily to conclude and on suspicion without
assailing the evidences on record. The argument that the buyer requires the
assessee to make the necessary purchases is consistently on record supported
by documentary evidences which have not been rebutted. No value addition is
done by the assessee. This fact is also not rebutted. The garments are
purchased as it is and sent to the location at the address as per the instruction
of the buyer. This claim also consistently on record is not rebutted. The
discount or commission as the Department may want to describe is returned
by the buyer and this is the sole limited issue in the facts of the present case.
No evidence has been placed on record to rebut these facts. The order dated
17.10.2014 of the ITAT in the case of Canon Industries Pvt. Ltd. in ITA
5411/Mum/2011 and others is available and has already been filed.
Accordingly, in the peculiar facts & circumstances of the present case, it was
his submission that the order passed pursuant to the directions of the Special
Auditor being bad in law may be quashed as nothing has been brought on
record by the Revenue to show that the exercise of the said power was not
arbitrary and biased. 8. The Ld. CIT (DR) relying upon the consistent orders of the Tax
Authorities submitted that the present case was a complex case and the
reasons for coming to the said conclusion have been set out by the Assessing
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 14 of 32 Officer in the show cause notice issued itself. The assessee has replied to the
notice. The reply of the assessee has been considered and it has not been
accepted by the AO. The said conclusion has been affirmed in appeal by the
CIT(A). Accordingly, heavily reliance was placed thereon. For supporting the
conclusion, attention was invited to page 7 of the impugned order so as to
point out that 23 specific defects were pointed out by the AO, thus, it was his
submission that the CIT(A) has considered in para 3 the claim of the assessee
of making payment to M/s Alshree General Trading Company which is
described as a buyer of the assessee. The rate of commission being paid of
12.5% against a gross profit of 12.65% it was submitted was correctly
questioned by the AO. The facts have been considered and the claim has been
rejected. In the facts of the present case, it was submitted, not only the
genuineness of the services rendered have been doubted but even the rate of
commission paid has been doubted. The specific reasons have been set out in
the order. It was his submission that even established houses like M/s Oswal
Woolen Mills, Modgill Hoisery P. Ltd., Abhishek Industries etc, pay brokerage
or commission from percentages ranging from 5% to 0.92%. Accordingly, the
assessee having failed to address these issues, commission payment of 12.5%
was not accepted and the addition was confirmed. 8.1 It was also his submission that the decisions relied upon by the Ld. AR
are of no help in the face of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Shyamal Sarkar vs. CIT, Siliguddi (2017) 84 taxmann.com 167 (SC),
wherein it has been clearly held as under: 8.2 Accordingly, it was his submission that the order passed by the AO is
valid as in the aforesaid decision the Apex Court has upheld the decision of the
Kolkata High Court that the 163 days which were consumed in the audit had
to be excluded from the period of limitation. Accordingly, it was his
submission that the decisions relied upon are of no help. 8.3 On the remaining issues, wherein the challenge is posed on the merits of
the additions it was his submission that since the Ld. AR relies upon the
written submissions on record before the AO and the CIT(A) he would also rely
upon the orders of the authorities below wherein these submissions are
dismissed. ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 15 of 32 9. The Ld. AR in reply submitted that the documents available have not
been rebutted; the explanation qua the additions on merits namely confusing
scarves and polyester scarves simply making a comparison with established
manufactures where assessee is not a manufacturer let alone a branded
manufacturer etc. all remain unaddressed. The rate of commission or discount
has already been addressed facts and business model of the assessee not
disputed or upset. Drawing specific attention to para 2.3 of the CIT(A)'s it was
submitted that the CIT(A) for reasons best known to himself has selectively
ignored the consistent argument of the assessee namely that the purchases
were made directly and sent to the parties for whom they were intended, for
ready reference the relevant extract is reproduced hereunder: 9.1 Accordingly it was his submission that the reasoning based on incorrect
facts leading to presumptions ignoring the basic and fundamental argument
that the assessee was not a manufacturer and had only purchased the
garments which were dispatched as per the orders procured by M/s Alshree
General Trading Company directly to the parties without value addition
dispatch. Referring to the arguments of the AO reproduced in para 3 by the
CIT(A), the ld. AR carrying us through the relevant extract submitted that
supporting invoices have been seen and considered and the only objection of
the AO as noted by the CIT(A) evident from page 8 of the impugned would show
that even the Special Auditor does not discredit the evidences as incorrect or
unreliable or otherwise merely gives his subjective opinion and not objective
opinion in his Report and holds and that the commission "is very high" very
high comparable to whom and how is left unaddressed. The fact that orders
were obtained by M/s Alshree facts available with supporting documents before
him wherein the entire business knowledge and effort was entirely of M/s
Alshree was not disputed by the Special Auditor also. For the said purpose,
attention was invited to page 14 of the AO who also notes this fact. The
relevant extract is reproduced hereunder : (emphasis supplied)
9.2. Inviting attention to page 9 of the impugned order at page 14 and 15 of
the assessment order, it was submitted, it would show that the AO castigates
the assessee also on the reasoning that there is no actual remittance of the
alleged commission payment through any banking channel ignoring the reply
given, which is also reproduced in his order as well as of the CIT(A), that it had
been reduced from the invoice value of the sale bills. Also noted by the Special
Auditor. Attention was invited to reply dated 29.7.2009 addressed to the
Assessing Officer extracted on the very same page which has also been
extracted by the CIT(A) in his order and mechanically considered. Same is
reproduced hereunder: 9.3 It was submitted that the replies have been extracted in part at times but
either deliberately ignored or selectively ignoring the relevant facts the AO
refusing to understand the simple facts arbitrarily held that the accounts were
complicated. Which findings have been mechanically upheld by the Ld. CIT(A).
For the said purpose attention was invited to para 3.2 & 3.3 of the CIT(A) is as
under: (emphasis supplied)
9.4 On the other remaining issues addressing the various addition sustained
submissions before the CIT(A) available on record were heavily relied upon.
However, in order to highlight the submission that there has been complete
non application of mind by the CIT(A) and the allegation that he has passed the
order mechanically and deliberately ignoring the facts, attention was invited to
para 6.1. It was submitted that relying on AS-II it had been brought to his
notice that the amount has been duly accounted for in the next year and they
cannot be added twice. Referring to para 6.2 of the impugned order it was his
submission that no effort has been made by the CIT(A) to provided any
independent justification for sustaining the addition and giving reasons why
the arguments advanced on behalf of the assessee cannot be accepted. No
discussion has been made as to why the argument did not find favour For
ready reference the two paras are reproduced hereunder: 6.2 Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and also above said counsel's
 contention in this regard and AO's observations and I find no reason to interfere with the
 findings of the AO. Therefore, this addition is also hereby confirmed." (emphasis supplied)
9.5. It was his submission that in the face of the facts brought out and the
prayer made, the CIT(A) ought to have addressed why he deemed it appropriate
to hold that the amount still needed be added twice. The manner of passing
the order in para 6.2 in the light of the submissions advanced in para 6.1, it
was submitted, itself demonstrates complete non-application of mind by the
CIT(A). 9.6 Similarly, the addition made on account of wrong interpretation of items
attention was invited to the submissions extracted in para 7.1 and the
conclusion of the CIT(A) in para 7.2 so as to argue that even the bare facts have
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 18 of 32 not been considered necessary for addressing by the CIT(A) in the passing of
his order. It was his submission that similar verbose conclusion without
referring to even the bare facts of the issue being considered has identically
been given by the CIT(A) even in para 8.2 where he pretends to consider the
allowability of the claim of incorrect valuation of closing stock. The said issue
submitted he shall address hereinafter. For ready reference, the relevant
extract is reproduced hereunder: (emphasis supplied)
9.7. It was his submission that the finding in paras 7.2 and 8.2 etc. is
verbatim identical and the CIT(A) has merely paid lip service to passing a
considered order without even caring to address the bare facts on the issues
being decided for the said purpose attention was invited to page 24 & 25 para 8
& 8.1 of the impugned order. Addressing the relevant pages in the Paper Book
supported by invoices which would show that the assessee vide letter dated
24.7.2009 had explained that it had purchased 5598 pieces of scarves and had
accounted for said sale in the stock register under the head "scarf". Apart from
that, there were sale of scarf cuttings also under the head "polyster scarf",
thus, there was no purchase of 77480 scarfs. These were part of the very same
garment, thus, this bare fact reproduced in the written submission supported
by documentary evidences has remained deliberately ignored. 9.8. Similarly, the addition made on account of under valuation of closing
stock has been again considered in a mechanical manner by the CIT(A) in para
8.2 verbatim to the finding in para 7.2 qua the scarfs cutting for ready
reference the said paras are also reproduced: per piece whereas the closing stock has been rightly valued by the assessee by adopting
 the purchase price of Rs. 400/- per piece. 8.2 I have gone through the contention of the assessee's counsel and also perused the
 relevant assessment order as well as rival submissions filed in this regard. Though the
 AO has made said addition for the want of necessary documents in the shape of sales
 bills or stock tally. Considering the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, I
 am of the opinion that the AO has rightly made an addition on this juncture as the
 assessee fails to produce required documentary evidence in support of its claim.
 Further, the discrepancy in valuation of closing stock is sort out by the Auditor and it
 needs concrete evidence for quashing. Keeping in view the above factual position, the
 addition made by the AO on this account is hereby confirmed for the want of proper
 evidence from assessee's side. Thus, this ground of the assessee is dismissed." (emphasis supplied)
9.9. Addressing the legal position it was again submitted that the decision
cited by the CIT-DR in the case of Shyamal Sarkar affirmed by the Apex Court
by way of the dismissal of the assessee's appeal, it was submitted, is not of any
help to the Revenue as in the facts of the said decision , validity of the reference
to Special Audit was not an issue. In the facts of the said decision and the
decision of the High Court, as well as the ITAT which had been relied upon the
validity of the direction was never an issue hence the decision is not applicable.
The order passed consequent to the invalid order under section 142(2A) it was
submitted is further supported by the decision of the Apex Court in the case of
Rajesh Kumar and Sahara India which have not been rebutted or distinguished
nor the orders of the ITAT or the decision of different Courts relied upon. It was
his submission that in fact there are consistent orders of the Courts and the
ITAT on the said issue and these decisions are being heavily relied upon. The
following judgments being specially relied upon Hind Samachar Ltd. vs. ACIT
and Another (2011) 335 ITR 277 (P&H) (HC), Alidhara Textool Engineering P.
Ltd. & Others vs. DCIT (2011) 332 ITR 115 (Guj. ), Delhi Development Authority
& Another vs. Union of India and Another ( 2013) 350 ITR 432 (Delhi), ITO vs.
Vilsons Particle Board Industries Ltd. (2017) 55 ITR (Trib.) 114 ( Pune), Rajesh
Kumar vs. DCIT ( 2006) 287 ITR 91 (SC) and Sahara India (Firm) vs. CIT (2008)
300 ITR 403 (SC). 9.10 Inviting attention to para 2.1 of the CIT(A) relied upon by the CIT
(DR) it was his submission that it needs to be considered that the AO having
set out the 23 so called short comings has not enhanced the sales. It was also
his submission that it is also important to take note of the fact that the
assessee is a 100% export oriented entity and the shipping bills relied upon
qua the exports and the remittances are all available on record and the
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 20 of 32 departmental exercise in the absence of any contrary evidence is an exercise in
futility as it is arbitrary and perverse on facts. None of these documents are
rebutted. It was submitted that merely because the tax authorities do not want
to accept the commission/discount they cannot be allowed to proceed
arbitrarily to discard the submission without rebutting the facts. They must
first be called upon to upset the facts by hard evidences. Without referring to
facts, arbitrarily ignoring the fact that the entire business model was being
run by M/s Alshree and unlike the Raymonds; the Oswals etc. the assessee
was not a renowned brand name in the market. There is no justification on
record to support the suspicion that the commission/discount could have been
lowered. The facts on record consistently are that the entire effort was of the
buyer i.e. M/s Alshree General Trading Company, thus, the assessee cannot be
considered to be comparable to entrenched and established garment
manufacturers who can call the shots and dictate their terms to the
commission agents. Accordingly it was his prayer that the appeal of the
assessee may be allowed. 10. We have heard the rival submission and perused the material available on
record. It is appropriate to extract the relevant provision which is required to be
considered in the present proceedings Section 142 (1) ... 142(2)... 142 (2A) If, at any stage of the proceedings before him the Assessing Officer,
 having regard to the nature and complexity of the accounts, volume of the
 accounts, doubts about the correctness of the accounts, multiplicity of
 transactions in the accounts or specialized nature of business activity of
 the assessee, and the interest of the revenue, is of the opinion that it is
 necessary so to do, he may, with the previous approval of the Principal Chief
 Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or Commissioner,
 direct the assessee to get the accounts audited by an accountant, as defined in
 the Explanation below sub-section(2) of section 288 , nominated by the Principal
 Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or
 Commissioner in this behalf and to furnish a report of such audit in the prescribed
 form duly signed and verified by such accountant and setting forth such
 particulars as may be prescribed and such other particulars as the Assessing
 Officer may require: ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 21 of 32 10.2 In order to decide the correctness of the assessee's claim that the
directions of the assessing officer in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the
present case for making a reference to the special audit was pre-mediated;
without any application of mind; without setting out any reasons which would
suggest that there is a complexity in the accounts which admittedly are the
statutory requirements and was only and solely for the purposes of extending
the time limit consequently the exercise of the power being arbitrary not
supported by settled legal position thereon was to be quashed; and the
assessment order passed pursuant thereto to be declared null and void, it is
necessary to first and foremost to cull out the contents of the order under section 131 (3) dated 15/16 December 2008 passed by the assessing officer
whereby books of accounts of the assessee were impounded. The allegation of
the assessee referring to the said order of impounding the books of accounts as
per record has been that the order passed under section 142 (2 A) also having
been passed on the very same date available at paper book page 46 to 50 would
show that the said exercise has been done by the assessing officer with a
predetermined motive only to extend the limitation under the Act so as to pass
the assessment order somehow in the extended time. It has been the consistent
claim that infact the assessing officer before making a reference did not make
any effort whatsoever to go through the accounts or the Objections of the
assessee and has labelled the accounts as complex without bringing out any
iota of fact or evidence to support the pre mediate conclusion. It was submitted
that the time limitation for making the assessment was coming to an end on
31/12/2008. The claim of the assessee has been that the statutory limit having
been provided under the Act can be extended only if the accounts of the
assessee are found to be complex in nature that the conclusion that there has
to be complexity in the accounts it has been urged is a sine-qua non. It has
been argued that the assessing officer ignoring the detailed submissions of the
assessee and the Objections of the asessee on record proceeded to refer the
matter for special audit vide letter dated 30th December 2008 ignoring the fact
that the statutory requirement mandating such an action was conspicuously
missing. Thus where the time limit for making the assessment ended on
31/12/2008 the reference made under section 142 (2A) on 30/12/2008 it has
been urged without satisfying the requisite conditions in terms of what has
now been a well settled legal position it has been submitted may be held as
invalid and the assessment order passed pursuant thereto on 21/08/2009 it
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 22 of 32 has been submitted being time barred may consequently be quashed. Attention
has been invited to the decisions cited in the course of the arguments for
supporting the prayer that since Reference under section 142 (2 A) is invalid
provisions of Explanation 1 (iii) of section 153 would not apply for extending
the period of limitation. 10.3 In order to decide the correctness of the claims so made it would be
appropriate at the outset to first cull out the contents of the order under section 131(3) dated 15/16/12/2008 whereby books of accounts were
impounded

 Order Under Section 131(3) of Income Tax Act, 1961
 "A survey under section 133A of Income Tax Act, 1961 was conducted at the business
 premises of the Cannon group of Industries having its offices at Delhi, Bombay and
 Ludhiana. The assessee is one of the concerns of this group of Industries and is engaged
 in manufacturing and trading of hosiery goods and woolen synthetic items. The
 registered office of the flagship concern of this group is at Mumbai and Head Office is at
 Ludhiana. 2. During the course of survey operation conducted in this group of industries on
 31.03.2006, large numbers of books of accounts and incriminating documents were found
 and impounded. The main allegation against the group is suppression of its profits by
 taking entries for bogus purchases from dummy concerns. The assessee is also showing
 consistent GP rate which clearly shows that even the exports made are open to doubt.
 Therefore, in order to verify purchases and the sales, the books of accounts and
 documents as per Annexure "A" are hereby impounded." 10.4. Before we address the arguments advanced on behalf of the Ld. AR in the
context of the above it would also be appropriate to extract the contents of the
letter dated 15/16 /12/2008 passed by the assessing officer for making a
reference for special audit. Copy of the same is available at page 46 to 50 of
the paper book and is reproduced hereunder: 3.1 All aforesaid persons who have admitted to have provided accommodation entries to the
company or other concerns in this group, have routed their bogus transactions through numerous
Bank accounts maintained in the name of numerous dummy concerns which gave the
accommodation entries. This establishes the fact that all the concerns in Cannon Group of
Industries are indulging in accommodation entries. 4. As per the balance sheet the company is stated to have advanced
following sums against the supplies. i) Canon Industries (P) Ltd. (Export Unit) Rs. 8,81,71,660/- ii) Canon Industries (P) Ltd. (Trading) Rs. 1,51,37,558/- iii) Canon Industries (P) Ltd. (Delhi) Rs. 2,35,00,000/- 4.1. From the above, it is clear that substantial purchases are being made
from the above concerns. Since all the concerns of Canon Group of Industries, indulged in taking
accommodation entries, it remains to be traced out as to how many of the accommodation entries
has finally found it way to your company. The fact however remains that the company is intimately
connected with the other concerns of the Cannon group of industries and also doing business
transactions with the concerns providing accommodation entries to your company. 6. Since the company has maintained the consistent G.P. ratio for last three years
even the genuineness of sales or exports is open to doubt, and is required to be verified with
reference to the purchase made genuinely or through the accommodation entries. This factor
further adds to the complexity in the accounts in your case. 7. The company has received Duty Draw Back to the tune of Rs. 15,58,82,068/-for
the year under consideration against Rs. 4,89,14,555/- in the immediate preceding year. Thus,
there is an increase of more than Rs.10 crore of DEPB entitlement alone, during the year under
consideration as compared to the last year without any corresponding increase in the net profit
which has only increased from Rs.4,59,978/- to 17,50,265/- in the year under consideration. This
facts establishes beyond doubt that purchases are highly inflated with the accommodation entries
to neutralize the profits out of the DEPB entitlements. 8. In the profit and loss accompanying the return you have shown closing stock of Rs.
2,94,26,565/-. However in the absence of day to day consumption of raw material or the
purchases and sale, the books results are not subject to verification. 9. The company is manufacturing as also trading in the hosiery goods. However there is no
separate trading or manufacturing account attached with the return of income making it
impossible to know as to which expenses relate o trading or manufacturing. ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 24 of 32 10. In view of the facts stated in the foregoing paras, it is clear that the your accounts are
 complex in as much as there is large interconnection and interlacing of funds of your company
 with the other concerns of the Cannon group of industries as also with the innumerable dummy
 concerns who have admitted categorically to have provided accommodation entries. Therefore, in
 view of the apparent complexity of accounts in your case as discussed above, I intend to refer your
 case for Asstt. Year 2006-2007 for special audit u/s 142(2A) of income Tax Act, 1961 in the
 interest of revenue. In this regards, you are hereby given an opportunity to file your objections, if
 any, on or before 22.12.2008. Please note that if no reply received from you on or before this date
 it will be presumed that you have no objection and matter will be decided on merits, as per
 provisions of law. 10.5 We find that the first of the replies of the assessee thereto is placed at
paper book pages 51-53. On behalf of the Canon Group of Industries
knowledge of the assessee with the companies of Sh. Shree Chand Gulati or
the other companies namely M/s Luckly Sales, M/s SPS Enterprises, M/s
Satyam Enterprises, Jupitor Overseas, Sanam Impex, and Sundram Overseas
etc has been denied. 10.6 It is further seen that with regard to Vijay Kumar Sharma it has been
mention that out of the 11 companies the assessee has interactions with 5
companies. The Invoices of the said companies in support of the export made
by way of shipping bills etc were enclosed. Qua the statement of Md. Sohrab Ali
it is seen it has been stated as per the reply that some of the companies have
been interacted with however Md. Sohrab Ali was claimed to be not known.
Further goods it has been stated had been exported and the exports were
supported by copies of export invoices; shipping bills payments received
through cheques etc. Similarly qua the alleged statement of Mr. Satender Soni
it has been stated that the person is not known and no purchases have been
made from his stated company. The concern as per record it is seen had sought
permission to cross-examine the persons and requested for making their
statements available for further clarification etc. Although based on these
statements no additions were made. However since reference has been made to
the case of Canon group of industries and presumably the very same
statements apparently aroused suspicion in the case of the present assessee
also to the alleged scam of bogus purchases/accommodation entries etc. we
deem it appropriate to refer here to the said order dated 17.10.2014 in ITA No.
5410/Mum/2011 and others in the case of M/s Cannon Industries P. Ltd. vs.
DCIT . Copy of this order has been filed in the course of the hearing by the Ld.
AR and the department has conspicuously remained silent qua the impact
thereon if any in the case of the Revenue. We find on a consideration of the
issues which came up for consideration before the Co-ordinate Bench that the
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 25 of 32 identical claim of alleged bogus purchases from various concerns on the basis
of the statements of those four persons including Sh. Shree Chand Gulati has
been a subject matter for consideration of the Coordinate Bench at Mumbai.
These facts submissions and conclusions have been addressed by the
coordinate Bench in para 3 to 3.6 from pages 3 to 9 of the said order,. A
perusal of the said decision shows that considering and relying upon the
decision of the Apex Court in the case of CIT Vs. Kadhar Khan 300 ITR 157
(Mad.) (HC) confirmed by the Supreme Court (2010) taxman 248 the coordinate
Bench concluded that the statements recorded during the survey proceedings u/s 133A of the Act have no evidentiary value since the opportunity to cross
examine the parties could not be made available. The departmental claim that
notices sent to the parties returned with the postal remarks "left/no such
person" it has been held would not obliterate the necessity of the opportunity of
cross examination in the remand proceedings. The coordinate Bench further
found that the assesse's claim was found to have been supported by necessary
details by way of purchase bills, export sale wherein the quantitative details
were not disputed by the tax authorities. It is seen that the relevant facts taken
into consideration by the AO and the CIT(A) were summed up by the coordinate
bench in the following manner: 10.7 the Ld. AR in the without prejudice arguments without giving up the main
issue wherein the assessee prays for quashing the assessment order has also
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 26 of 32 canvassed that in the facts of the present case the quantitative details of the
assessee have not been upset and the addition has been based purely on the
basis of suspicions and biases ignoring the correct facts. It has been
emphasized that in the facts of the present case also the turnover of the
assessee has been accepted. These facts it has been argued were specifically
addressed so as to support the argument that these facts taken into
consideration by the Mumbai Bench in the case of Canon industries wherein
also the coordinate Bench took note of the fact that the tax authorities had not
enhanced the sales etc and the quantitative details and figures regarding stock
stood accepted which it was submitted is identical to the facts the present case
also. We note that in rebuttal of these stated claims the Revenue has not
advanced any arguments. For ready reference the relevant extract from the said
order is reduced hereunder: 10.8 Reverting to the letter dated 15/16/12/2008 of the AO which sets out
the reasons it is seen that the first reason is addressed in para-2 that there
was increase in net profit in the year under consideration. We find that this
cannot be said to be a reason for making a reference to a special audit. It is
noticed that the assessing officer in fact on perusal of the profit and loss
account of the assessee company has duly noted in the said para that "you are
doing trading and export of" thus it is evident that the assessing officer was
aware that the assessee was a Trader and exporter and definitely not a
manufacturer. Para 3 of the said letter shows that the assessing officer takes
note of the fact that the assessee company is one of the concerns of the Canon
group of industries in which survey under section 133A had been conducted
on 31/03/2006 wherein the books of accounts of the said concern were
impounded and statements of various persons controlling the different
concerns were recorded on the basis of which it was concluded that
accommodation entries were being passed. In sub para i) to vii) of para-3 the
statement of Sh. Chand Gulati, Sajal Aggarwal, Vijay Kumar Sharma,
Mohammed Sohrab Ali, Vijay Gulati, Akash Bansal, Satinder Soni etc are taken
note of on the basis of which it has been concluded that since the said persons
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 27 of 32 admitted having provided accommodation entries to the company or other
companies in this group hence the additions were made. We have taken into
consideration the order passed by the coordinate Bench in the case of Canon
group industries and find that the allegation of the Department did not stand
the scrutiny of law. At this point it needs to be highlighted that the concerns of
the AO that these may be bogus accommodation entries could have very well
have been dealt in the statutory time limit fixed by law these concerns by
themselves in the facts and the material available on record and specifically on
a careful reading of the reasons recorded by the AO himself do not bring out
whatsoever any complexity in the accounts which admittedly was the sine qua
non for such an action. On going through the merits of the additions made by
the assessing officer also we note on giving our consideration and also careful
consideration to the submissions of the Departmental Representative we find
the major additions made and sustained are dehors supporting facts based on
suspicions and incorrect appreciation of facts. As noted we find no complexity
in the books of accounts of the assessee which has been brought to our notice.
Similarly the issues canvassing justification for the reference expressed in
paragraph 4, 5, 7 do not bring out any complexity in the accounts whatsoever.
The observations made in para 6 that the company is maintaining a consistent
GP rate for the last 3 years leading to the conclusion that the genuineness of
sales and exports is open to doubt is dehors facts and evidences as even after
carrying out the statutory Audit in the orders passed by the respective
authorities we find that no evidences or documents have been filed to
considered or upset the claim of the assessee. The department has made the
additions purely on suspicious. Even after expressing concerns that these were
required to be verified with reference to the purchase made genuinely or
through accommodation entries which is stated to be justification holding that
there was complexity in the accounts we find ultimately only suspicion on
incorrect facts has been the basis for the whimsical and arbitrary action. The
matter of genuineness of purchases could very well have been considered while
passing an order within the statutory time limit and the suspicion that the
transactions may be bogus does not warrant reference being made to a
statutory audit. As noted even after utilizing the extended time period
genuineness of the documents has not been upset. Similarly the observations
made in para 9 of the aforesaid letter of the assessing officer namely that the
company is manufacturing and also trading in the hosiery goods is contrary to
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 28 of 32 para 2 of the page same letter and shows the carelessness of the exercise. The
concern that there was no separate manufacturing account attached to the
return of income was thus mischievous and dehors facts. The fact that it runs
directly in conflict to the correct facts noted in para-2 by the assessing officer
himself in the self same letter wherein he had initially referred to correct facts
by stating you are doing trading and export of hosiery goods. Consequently the
conclusions drawn in para-10 it is seen are blatantly biased and prejudiced.
When these are seen along with the contents of the impounding order of even
date and the reasons for reference to the special auditor alongwith the order of
the coordinate Bench in the Canon group of companies it is seen that the
assessing officer in the facts of the present case has proceeded deliberately on
incorrect facts and has attempted to clothe his actions by resorting to statutory
provisions which were legitimately on the facts as they stand were not available
to him. 10.9 We have gone through the record including the letter/notice issued by
the assessing officer etc. along with the various letters addressed by the
assessee to the assessing officer the findings of the assessing officer and the
CIT(A) on a consideration thereof we find that though the specific defects noted
by the assessing officer have been summarized by the CIT(A) at pages 7 and 8
of his order however nothing therein also brings out the complexity in the
accounts which is the limited issue for consideration to address the primary
claim of the assesee. For the sake of completeness we reproduce the relevant
extract from the impugned order which read as under: viii) Payment to suppliers are being made months before, mostly in cash, before the purchases
 are made. ix) To many suppliers, no payment are made during the year or very less payment are made. xiv) The assessee is mainly selling to one buyer only i.e. Alshree General Trading Company. Even the payment being received from other parties are being credited in the account of
 Alshree. xv) There is a difference between the items purchased and items sold, xvi) The sale bills
 are being issued with the serial number more than once. xvii) There are many bills for which copies are not available,
 xviii) The assessee is using third party account for making payments to the suppliers.
 xix) There is a difference in the description of the item purchased as per the bill and as per
 the stock ledger. xx) The very basic expenses like telephone, salary, rent, stationery, traveling electricity,
 vehicle maintenance and so on, are negligible or not incurred for running the business of
 this magnitude. xxi) The assessee is not having any fixed asset. To run the business of this magnitude
 without any fixed asset is unimaginable, xxii) The purchase bills of many suppliers are
 of many huge amount, but there are no transportation details given on these bills.
 xxiii) The Ld. Counsel while submitting his reply has mainly rely upon the
 submission that the defects pointed out by the assessing officer were mainly of
 trivial nature. However I do not agree with the submission of the Ld. Counsel
 that when huge numbers of duplicate bills are being issued or there is difference
 in opening and closing, there is difference in trial balance or when the purchases
 cannot be verified, these can be accepted as minor clerical errors. I find no merits in
 the contention of the Ld. Counsel whenever there is rejection of accounts, there is
 always a certain degree of guess work. The assessing officer has increased the gross
 profit rate by 2.35% only. While doing so, taken into account the very low the net
 profit as well. Therefore I agree with the rate adopted by A.O. and addition of
 Rs.42274450/- is confirmed. 10.10 We have taken into consideration the decisions relied upon by the
parties before us. We find that the reliance placed by the Revenue on the case
of Shyamal Sarkar is misplaced as the validity of the reference to the Special
Auditor was not an issue for consideration either before the Apex court or the
Hon'ble High Court. The decisions / orders relied upon by the ld. AR have not
been specifically referred however the proposition of law laid down by the
Courts have fully been taken into consideration. On a perusal of the relevant
provision of the Act which has been extracted in the earlier part of this order
when read alongwith the decisions cited it is well-settled that the direction for
special audit can be issued by the AO only if after taking into consideration
the nature and complexity of the accounts he is of the opinion that special
audit is necessary. We find on going through the reasons as well as the terms
of reference which have been extracted in the order and hold that the
reference so made is a perverse nonspeaking order. Nothing set out therein or
in the record brings out how the accounts can be considered to be complex
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 30 of 32 and on what considerations the mechanical approval has been given. The
reasons set out are conspicuous by their absence and what has been set out
are infact farcical reasons like increase in G.P. over the years from the very
same activity cannot be a justification for the accounts being complex etc.
Thus we find that the decisions relied upon fully supports the prayer of the
assessee. In the facts of the present case we find that the extended period was
taken under the guise of special audit referring to incorrect facts and making
no attempts to justify the action by either rebutting or upsetting any of the
evidences and documents filed and purely on the basis of suspicions which
may have been aroused. It goes without saying that the AO has to necessarily
apply his mind to the issue of nature and complexity of the accounts before
issuing order under the said provision. This requirement of law is sine qua
non. It is equally well settled that the power to direct special audit cannot be
exercised lightly and whimsically. The satisfaction of the assessing officer
should not be a subjective satisfaction and it goes without saying that it must
necessarily be based on objective assessment of the accounts keeping the
statutory mandate which is "the nature and complexity of the accounts". Thus
considering the judicial position we note that it is no longer a debatable issue
that the AO before directing a special audit must apply his mind and make an
honest attempt to understand the accounts of the assessee. A mechanical and
perfunctory order directing special audit would lay the order open to the
challenge of being perverse on facts which is the position in the present facts
of the case. The mere usage of the term that there is complexity in the
accounts by the AO without carrying to bring out supporting reasons will not
bring the action within the ambit of the requirements of the said section. The
assessing officer is required to demonstrate the complexity in the accounts.It
cannot be overemphasized that the assessing officer by the very nature of the
duty entrusted upon him is expected to have a workable knowledge, skill and
idea of accounts and accounting principles. By virtue of the training, skill and
experience imparted to him the assessing officer is not a layman or one with
no experience in dealing with the accounts . The powers vested upon the said
Authority are based on his expertise and knowledge and are expected to be
exercised in a bonafide manner in order to sub serve his statutory duties and
responsibilities. The power is to be exercised for the underlying purpose for
which the statute has vested the authority and it cannot be accepted or
expected to be used for circumventing the statutory time limit which was
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 31 of 32 expiring on 31/12/2008. It is equally well-settled that the approval granted
mechanically is contrary to the settled legal principles. The exercise of the
power and its mechanical approval is not expected to be utilised for
unauthorised purpose of extension of limitation to complete the assessment.
In the facts of the present case the departmental action fails on this primary
threshold itself. It is well settled that the reasons should be objectively
supporting the reference a subjective satisfaction does not entitle the
assessing officer to pass the buck to the Special Auditor as it is the
responsibility of the assessing officer to scrutinise the accounts. It has been
judicially noted that section 142 (2 A) was not a provision which enabled the
assessing officer to delegate his powers and functions to the Special Auditor
which he is expected to perform himself. The provision has been enacted to
enable the assessing officer to take the help of a specialist who understood
accounts and accountancy practices when the accounts were demonstrated to
be complex. In the absence of any such supporting reasons the conclusions
have been drawn by the AO as well as the CIT(A) sans reasons.
10.11 Thus although in the course of the hearing we have noticed that qua the
major additions sustained in the present appeal the issues are fully covered in
favour of the assessee however since on considering the primary objection of
the assessee itself we find that the departmental action fails. We find that
there is no purpose in deliberating on these issues. 11. Accordingly for the detailed reasons given hereinabove we hold that the
impugned order in the absence of supporting reasons addressing the nature
and complexity of the accounts for special audit is bad in law. We find that the
exercise has been undertaken only to extend the time as the time statutorily
available to the AO was expiring on 31/12/2008. There being no complexity in
the nature of accounts which has been brought out by the revenue either in
the reasons set out by the assessing officer or for that matter on going
through the material available on record in the assessment proceedings or the
appellate proceedings the action is held to be bad in law as the order is bereft
of any reason justifying the action. 12. Before parting we deem it appropriate to observe that we have arrived at
the conclusion ongoing through the reasons as well as the terms of reference
given and the submissions of the respective parties including the case law
relied upon by the parties even though specific reference to the decisions cited
 ITA- 611/CHD/2011
 A.Y. 2006-2007 Page 32 of 32 has not been made. The legal position is well-settled and the decision arrived
at proceeds on facts peculiar to its own. 13. Accordingly the appeal of the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced in the Open Court on 29th June, 2018.