ORDER ID 108565 I placed an order on Robocraze website on 1.1.2024. The order was delivered on 5.1.2024 and all items except one were in order. The product I had a problem with is a soldering iron from Soldron company. It comes with a QR code on the wire that must be scanned to ensure authenticity. When I scanned the product, a warning popped up stating that the product is counterfeit and should not be used. I reached out to the manufacturer (Soldron) who confirmed that the product is fake. There were a lot of typing errors on the outer packaging itself, which I should have noticed beforehand. As expected, Robocraze support team denied that the product is fake and claimed that all their products are original. Later, on 9.1.2024, they agreed to replace the product after I sent them multiple images of the duplicate item. They collected the duplicate product and I received the replacement on 12.1.2024. This time there was nothing suspicious and the packaging looked genuine. So I proceeded to open and scan the QR code. The same error appeared that the product is fake. I raised a complaint with Robocraze again, this time with video proof as well. I requested them to take back the fake product, and send me a refund. On 17.1.2024, their support team finally responds to my complaint. They claim that they have sent original product from their end and can not send any replacement or refund. This reply is after I have sent a video that shows the fake product message upon scanning the QR code. It amazes me how easily these companies get away with unethical practices by putting forward vague logic. Is the customer a fool who'd waste their time dealing with customer support executives if the product was original? This was my first experience dealing with this online website and it has left a sour taste. I am happy that I learnt the lesson with a low value order, which comes with a QR code to verify authenticity, otherwise I'd have unsuspectingly wasted more of my hard-earned money. I have attached relevant photos and videos based on which Robocraze has denied refund. I can also post unboxing video that shows the fake QR code if required. + 1 videos Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (5)