Imprisoned Ashoka University professor Ali Khan Mahmudabad received relief from the Supreme Court on May 21, which granted him interim bail, subject to his furnishing bail bonds before the Chief Judicial Magistrate of Sonipat. The court also directed the Haryana Police to create a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the meaning behind the professor’s social media posts.

In addition, the judges restricted Mahmudabad from publishing his views on the matter. “It is directed that the petitioner shall not write any online post, column, or article, nor shall he make any oral speech related to the online posts which are the subject matter of investigation,” the court said.

The court also prohibited Mahmudabad from expressing his views about the terror attack in Pahalgam and the subsequent conflict between India and Pakistan. (Operation Sindoor was launched by the Indian military in response to a terror attack in Pahalgam.)

The Haryana Police arrested Mahmudabad on May 18 after registering two separate First Information Reports (FIRs) against him in connection with his social media posts on Operation Sindoor. The FIRs were filed by the chairperson of the Haryana State Commission for Women, Renu Bhatia, and BJP Yuva Morcha General Secretary Yogesh Jathedi.

Mahmudabad’s lawyer, Kapil Sibal, recounted the contested social media posts in court. According to him, Mahmudabad’s posts analyzed India’s military response against Pakistan and commended its armed forces for refraining from unnecessary escalation.

“The message is clear. If you don’t deal with your terrorism problem, then we will. The loss of civilian life is tragic on both sides and it’s the main reason why war should be avoided,” recited Sibal from the post.

“This is a highly patriotic statement,” he added.

The posts also argued that war causes immense suffering, especially among the poor, and primarily benefits politicians and defense industries. Mahmudabad further criticized right-wing hypocrisy for celebrating the role of female soldiers in this context while ignoring communal violence and hate crimes within India.

The court, however, took a dim view of the professor’s posts.

“Is this the time to talk about such a communal outburst? The country has faced a big challenge. The monsters came all the way from different country, attacked our innocent people. At that time, when we are united… unfortunately, there are other people as well. Why are they trying to gain cheap popularity on this occasion?” observed Justice Surya Kant.

The court also commented that Mahmudabad’s posts might have double meanings or innuendos, which would require an SIT to “understand the complexity and properly appreciate some of the expressions used.”

“As we understand in law, this is called dog-whistling. There are some words which give dual meanings and which prima facie appear to be targeted,” said the judge.

The court also asked Mahmudabad to keep the sentiments of other citizens in mind.

“You could convey this very feeling in a very simple language, without hurting anyone. You have a right to express it, but please keep the sentiments of the others in mind. Have some respect for them as well. Use such a terminology which is simple, respectful, and neutral,” it said.

Sibal defended Mahmudabad by arguing that his statements contained no criminal intent.

“There’s no criminal intent in it. There’s no trying to generate communal intentions of it. There’s no such content,” he said. He also questioned the FIR filed by the Haryana Women’s Commission. He argued that the posts did not contain any content offensive to women.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event