(Per Hon'ble Sri Justice K. Lakshman)

 Heard Mr. Mohammed Aslam, learned counsel for the

petitioner and learned Special Government Pleader representing

learned Additional Advocate General appearing on behalf of the

respondents. 2. This writ petition is filed to issue a writ of habeas corpus

directing the respondents to produce the detenue viz.,, Syeda Uzma

Fathima W/o Mohd. Ali, now detained in Central Prison,

Chanchalguda, Hyderabad, and to order her release forthwith by

setting aside the detention order dated 03.06.2023 passed by

respondent No.4 and the consequential approval order dated

08.06.2023 passed by respondent No.3 vide G.O.Rt.No.833 declaring

them as illegal. 3. Respondent No.4 passed the detention order dated

03.06.2023 against the detenue under the provisions of Section - 3 (2)

of the Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot-leggers, 2 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 Dacoits, Drug-Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders Land-

 Grabbers, Spurious Seed Offenders, Insecticide Offenders, Fertiliser

 Offenders, Food Adulteration Offenders, Fake Document Offenders,

 Scheduled Commodities Offenders, Forest Offenders, Gaming

 Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Explosive Substances Offenders, Arms

 Offenders, Cyber Crime Offenders and White Collar or Financial

 Offenders Act, 1986 (Act No.1 of 1986) (for short 'Act No.1 of

 1986'), under the category of 'Dacoit' as defined under Section - 2 (c)

 of the Act No.1 of 1986. 4. The impugned detention order was passed by respondent

 No.4 - detaining authority relying on the following two (02) crimes: The detenue is arraigned as accused No.5 in the said crime. 6. Crime No.6 of 2023 was registered by Santosh Nagar Police

Station for the offences punishable under Sections - 395 and 384 read

with 34 of IPC . On completion of investigation, the Investigating

Officer laid the charge sheet and the same is pending for committal.

In this crime also, the detenue is arraigned as accused No.5. 7. Mr. Mohd. Aslam, learned counsel for the petitioner, would

submit that the impugned detention order was issued without

application of mind. The detaining authority did not consider the

material properly. Therefore, there is no subjective satisfaction by the

detaining authority while issuing the impugned detention order. Thus,

the detention order and the consequential approval order are liable to

be set aside. 8. On the other hand, learned Special Government Pleader

representing learned Additional Advocate General would submit that

the allegations levelled against the detenue are serious and dangerous 4 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 in nature and she is a habitual and dangerous offender involved in the

above crimes. The detaining authority, considering the entire material

available on record and after arriving at the subjective satisfaction

only passed the detention order in order to prevent the detenue from

committing similar offences and the same was approved by

respondent No.3. There is no error in it. 9. Perusal of detention order, dated 03.06.2023, passed by

respondent No.4 would reveal that the detenue along with her

associates target the business/vulnerable people, bait them and trap

them by taking photographs (selfies) with the victims and blackmail

them threatening the victims to make the photos public and also with

dire consequences at the point of knives and extort money from them

to earn easy and illegal money to lead a lavish life. It is also

mentioned that the aforesaid crimes would amply demonstrate the

habitual nature of committing crime and creating large scale fear and

panic among the people adversely affecting the maintenance of 1 . (1988) 2 SCC 57 2 . (1988) 1 SCC 296 5 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 'public order'. The detenue voluntarily confessed to have committed

the aforesaid offences. Thus, the detaining authority having

considered the entire material on record arrived at the subjective

satisfaction that the detenue has been habitually committing dacoities

and dangerous offences by trapping the victims in the honey-trap

along with her associates in an organized manner in the limits of

different police stations of Hyderabad Police Commissionerate and,

therefore, she is a 'dacoit' as defined in Clause (c) of Section - 2 of the

Act No.1 of 1986. Thus, with a view to prevent the detenue from

acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of 'public order'

respondent No.4 - detaining authority passed the impugned detention

order dated 03.06.2023 and the same was approved by respondent

No.3 vide G.O.Rt.No.833 of General Administration (Spl. Law &

Order) Department, dated 08.06.2023. Thus, according to the

respondents, the case of the detenue falls under the category of

'Dacoit'. 10. Section - 2 (c) of the Act No.1 of Act, 1986 defines

"dacoit" which means a person who either by himself or as a member

of or leader of a gang commits or abets the commission of any of the 6 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 offences punishable under sections 395 to 400 of the Indian Penal

Code, 1860. 11. While passing the detention order, the detaining authority

not only considered the modus operandi of the detenue in commission

of offences, but also considered the allegations levelled against the

detenue which are grave and serious in nature. Therefore, in order to

prevent the detenue from committing similar offences passed the

impugned detention order. 12. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ashok Kumar v. Delhi

Administration 3 observed that preventive detention is devised to

afford protection to society. The object is not to punish a man for

having done something but to intercept before he does it and to

prevent him from doing. 13. In Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar 4, the Apex

Court held as under: 14. In Vijay Narain Singh v. State of Bihar 5, a three Judge

Bench of the Apex Court had an occasion to deal with the expression 5 . (1984) 3 SCC 14 8 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 'habitually' and held that the expression 'habitually' would mean

'repeatedly' or 'persistently' implying a thread of continuity, stringing

together similar repetitive acts, and a single act or omission would not

characterize as an act of 'habitual'. The Apex Court was of the

opinion that to qualify as a 'habit', a person must have grown

accustomed to leading a life of crime, whereby it would be a force of

habit, inherent or latent, in an individual with a criminal instinct, with

a criminal disposition of mind, that makes him as dangerous to society

in general. 15. As discussed above, in Crime No.32 of 2023, the detenue

along with her associates looted an amount of Rs.5,05,000/- from the

complainant therein, while an amount of Rs.47,000/- from the

complainant in Crime No.6 of 2023 under the guise of dating and

giving catering order respectively. The allegations levelled against

the detenue are serious and grave in nature. Thus, the detaining

authority while invoking the powers under the Act No.1 of 1986, has

to consider the entire material on record and come to a subjective

satisfaction that due to the acts committed by the detenue, nature of

offences and the manner in which the same were committed would

disturb the public order. To prevent the detenue from committing the 9 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 similar offences, the detaining authority shall issue preventive

detention order against the detenue. The Apex Court, this Court has to

consider facts and circumstances of each case on case to case basis. 16. There is no dispute with regard to the legal proposition that

the detention order shall be issued in rarest of rare cases, that too, to

prevent the detenue from committing similar offences. Article - 21 of

the Constitution of India enshrined the detenue the fundamental right

of personal liberty which is precious right enshrined to the citizens as

per the Constitution of India. At the same time, duty cast upon the

'State' as defined under Article - 12 of the Constitution of India to

maintain law and order as well as public order. When there is

disturbance to the public order, it is the duty of the 'State' to invoke

the procedure laid down under the Act No.1 of 1986, to prevent the

detenue from committing similar offences. 17. As discussed above, the facts of the present case would

reveal that the detenue is having criminal history and the allegations

levelled against her in the aforesaid two (02) crimes are serious and

grave in nature. Certainly, the acts of the detenue in commission of

the aforesaid offences disturb the 'public order' and the impact of the 10 KL,J & SKS,J W.P. No.17657 of 2023 said offences would create panic in the minds of the public. The

detaining authority having considered all the said aspects arrived at

the subjective satisfaction and passed the impugned detention order.

Therefore, viewed from any angle, we are of the considered view that

there is no error in the impugned detention order dated 03.06.2023

passed by respondent No.4 and the consequential approval order dated

08.06.2023 passed by respondent No.3. Thus, the writ petition fails

and the same is liable to be dismissed. 18. The present writ petition is accordingly dismissed. In the

circumstances of the cases, there shall be no order as to costs. As a sequel, the miscellaneous petitions, if any, pending in the

writ petition shall stand closed. _________________
 K. LAKSHMAN, J

 _________________
 K. SUJANA, J
1st September, 2023
Mgr