JYOTI SINGH, J. 1. Present rectification petition has been filed on behalf of the

 Petitioner seeking removal of the registered trademark ,
 bearing T.M. No.4400360, in Class 09 in respect of goods such as
 'Mobile Phone and Mobile Phone Accessories including Mobile
 Phone Charger, Adaptor and Travel Charger, Battery, Tempered
 Glass Screen Protectors for Smartphones, Power-Bank, Mobile
 Cover, Memory Card, Card Reader, Handsfree included in Class 09',
 from the Register of Trade Marks under Sections 47, 57 and 125 of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 1 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as the '1999 Act'). 2. Notice was issued in the petition on 05.08.2021 to Respondent
 No.1/Registrar of Trade Marks and Respondent No.2/Mr. Sachin
 Garg, proprietor of Pooja Creations. Despite service, there was no
 representation on behalf of Respondent No.2 and thus, fresh notice
 was issued to Respondent No. 2 on 07.09.2021, returnable on
 26.11.2021 and time was granted to Respondent No.1 to file counter
 affidavit, if any. On 28.01.2022, the Court proceeded ex parte against
 Respondent No.2 as there was no representation despite service.
 Respondent No.1 has chosen not to file any response to the
 rectification petition, save and except, a written submission dated
 30.08.2023. 3. Factual matrix as captured in the petition is that Petitioner is an
 individual, who along with his wife started ROCKPAPA, a brand
 founded in the year 2014, primarily involved in designing products for
 children including Headphones, Pencil Boxes, School Bags, etc. as
 well as manufacturing, distributing, developing and researching on
 Headphones, Headphones for audio apparatus, Stereo Headphones,
 Hi-fidelity Loudspeakers, Telephone earpieces, Earphones, Portable
 media players, Audio speakers, etc. 4. Products of the Petitioner are stated to be extremely popular
 amongst the consuming public and are available across the globe.
 Petitioner has operations in various countries around the world,
 including but not limited to Australia, Canada, Europe, USA and
 India. Global headquarter of the Petitioner is in USA. Petitioner
 invests heavily in research and development. In the course of trade,
 Petitioner uses several marks many of which are well known and one Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 2 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 such mark is the device mark, which is used for goods such
 as Headphones, Loudspeakers, Earphones, Portable media players,
 etc. 5. The trademark 'ROCKPAPA' was first adopted in and around
 2014 in UK and rapidly grew worldwide, including in USA and
 Canada in the year 2016, in Australia in 2019 and in India in 2020.
 Domain name www.rockpapa.com was registered by the Petitioner on
 09.04.2014 and has been used for sales and promotions of his
 products. Petitioner is selling his products through Amazon
 e-commerce platform in various countries such as Australia, Canada,
 Germany, Italy and India. Owing to the continuous and global use of
 the trademark 'ROCKPAPA', Petitioner has acquired enviable
 reputation in the market. Petitioner has secured registrations of the
 mark 'ROCKPAPA' in several countries around the world and details
 of some of the registrations are as under: CONTENTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 7. Petitioner's trademark is a globally known
 trademark and Petitioner's products sold under the said mark are
 extremely popular amongst the consuming public in several countries,
 including India. By continuous and extensive use of the trademark,
 Petitioner has earned formidable and enviable reputation across the
 globe and even in India the products under the said trademark are well
 known and extremely popular, especially amongst the children.
 Petitioner has secured trademark registrations in various countries
 such as USA, UK, Canada, Japan, Australia etc. in respect of goods
 falling in Class 09, prior to the registration of the impugned
 trademark. By registration and proposed use of the impugned
 trademark by Respondent No.2, which is similar to Petitioner's mark
 and used for identical goods, there is every likelihood of confusion
 amongst the unwary consumers and this in turn will dilute the
 distinctive character of Petitioner's trademark and will adversely
 impact Petitioner's reputation, built over the years. The impugned
 trademark is not capable of distinguishing Respondent No.2's goods
 from the goods/services of others and its registration is liable to be
 cancelled in terms of Section 9(1)(a) of the 1999 Act, which provides
 'absolute grounds for refusal of registration of trade marks which are
 devoid of any distinctive character'. 8. Respondent No.1 has erroneously registered a trademark which
 by its very nature is sure to deceive the public and cause confusion
 and since the impugned trademark is wrongly appearing on the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 5 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 Register, it is liable to be removed under the provision of Section
 9(2)(a) read with Section 57 of the 1999 Act. As the impugned
 trademark is deceptively/confusingly similar to Petitioner's trademark
 and there is commonality of goods such as 'Mobile Phones and
 accessories including Mobile Phone Charger, Adaptor and Travel
 Charger, Battery, Tempered Glass Screen Protectors for
 Smartphones, Power-Bank, Mobile Cover, Memory Card, Card
 Reader, Handsfree included in Class 09', the registration violates
 provision of Section 11(1) of the 1999 Act and the trademark cannot
 continue on the Register. Registration is also hit by Section 11(2) inasmuch as the earlier trademark 'ROCKPAPA' of the Petitioner is
 well known and the use of the impugned deceptively similar
 trademark is to take unfair advantage of and is detrimental to the
 distinctive character and reputation of the earlier trademark of the
 Petitioner. 9. It is unfathomable that Respondent No.2 was unaware of
 Petitioner's brand and has clearly adopted the same only to show
 association with the Petitioner and his brand 'ROCKPAPA' and is
 evidence of bad faith. The adoption is with a dishonest intention to
 ride upon the hard earned goodwill and reputation of the Petitioner.
 Petitioner is a "person aggrieved" under Section 57 of the 1999 Act
 and entitled to seek cancellation of registration of the impugned
 trademark and its removal from the Register. Continued existence of
 the impugned trademark on the Register is also detrimental to public
 interest. Reliance was placed on the judgment in Hardie Trading Ltd.
 and Another v. Addisons Paint & Chemicals Ltd. , (2003) 11 SCC 92,
 for the purpose of highlighting the judicial interpretation of the phrase Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 6 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 "person aggrieved". 10. Petitioner is the 'prior adopter' and 'prior user' of the trademark

 and hence by being 'first in the market' to adopt and use
 the trademark, Petitioner enjoys a superior right in his trademark, over
 the registration of the impugned trademark, in view of the settled law
 in Milmet Oftho Industries and Others v. Allergan Inc. , (2004) 12
 SCC 624; N.R. Dongre and Others v. Whirlpool Corporation and
 Another , (1996) 5 SCC 714; S. Syed Mohideen v. P. Sulochana Bai ,
 ( 2016) 2 SCC 683 and Neon Laboratories Limited v. Medical
 Technologies Limited and Others , (2016) 2 SCC 672. Having known
 Petitioner's popular trademark, there is no plausible or justified reason
 with Respondent No.2 for adopting and registering the impugned
 trademark, save and except, the dishonest and malafide intention of
 misappropriating the enormous goodwill and reputation in the

 trademark for making illegal and unlawful gains. In the
 context of dishonest adoption, reliance was placed on the judgements
 in Midas Hygiene Industries (P) Ltd. and Another v. Sudhir Bhatia
 and Others , (2004) 3 SCC 90; Rolex SA v. Alex Jewellery Pvt. Ltd. &
 Others , 2014 SCC OnLine Del 1619 and Somany Ceramics Limited
 v. Shri Ganesh Electric Co. and Others, 2022 SCC OnLine Del
 3270. 11. The documents/additional documents placed on record such as
 the certificate from the Chartered Accountant; screenshots of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 7 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 Amazon/Flipkart listings etc. not only evidence humongous sales by

 the Petitioner under the trademark but are also reflective of
 the fact that Petitioner was 'first in the market' to adopt and use the
 trademark and are sufficient to pass an order for rectification of
 the Register of Trade Marks by cancelling the registration of the
 impugned trademark in respect of similar/identical goods falling under
 Class 09. 12. The impugned mark has been correctly registered in accordance
 with the provisions of the 1999 Act. Application submitted by
 Respondent No.2 on 07.01.2020 underwent scrutiny on 10.01.2020.
 Examination report was issued on 01.02.2020 and the application for
 registering the impugned mark was marked as "accepted". Application
 was subsequently published in the Trade Mark Journal 1940-0 on
 10.02.2020, inviting objections from the public in consonance with Section 20(1) of the 1999 Act. The impugned mark was not contested
 by the Petitioner and thus, the same proceeded for registration. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 13. Petitioner seeks cancellation of registration of the impugned

 trademark for goods falling under Class 09 with respect to
 similar/identical goods as aforementioned. The challenge is on
 manifold grounds: (a) Petitioner is 'first in the market' to adopt and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 8 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 use the trademark and has a superior right in the trademark
 over Respondent No.2 and thus, the registration cannot subsist; (b)
 impugned trademark is devoid of any distinctive character and is
 incapable of distinguishing the goods or services in respect of which it
 is registered from goods or services of another and does not satisfy the
 conditions laid down in Section 9(1)(a) ; (c) impugned trademark is
 inherently capable of deceiving the public and causing confusion by
 its similarity to Petitioner's mark and is liable to be removed under Section 9(2)(a) read with Section 57 of the 1999 Act, from the
 Register; (d) impugned trademark is deceptively/confusingly similar
 to Petitioner's trademark in respect of similar goods in the same Class
 and there exists a likelihood of confusion or association in the minds
 of the public with the Petitioner and registration violates Section 11(1) of the 1999 Act; (e) registration of Respondent No.2's trademark is in
 violation of Section 11(2) of the 1999 Act inasmuch as Petitioner's
 trademark is a well-known trademark and use of the impugned
 deceptively/confusingly similar trademark by Respondent No.2 is
 leading to Respondent No.2 continuing to take unfair advantage of and
 is detrimental to the distinctive character and reputation of Petitioner's
 earlier trademark; and (f) use of the impugned trademark is liable to
 be prevented under the common law of passing off by virtue of Section 11(3) of the 1999 Act. Pithily put, according to the Petitioner,
 the impugned registered trademark deserves to be taken off the
 Register under Sections 47 , 57 and 125 of the 1999 Act and the
 Register calls for rectification to this effect. 14. Insofar as argument of the Petitioner with respect to Sections
 11(1) and (2) is concerned, the same is devoid of merit as the
 provisions per se are inapplicable. A bare perusal of Section 11 shows
 that it deals with relative grounds for refusal of registration. Sub-
 section (1) proscribes registration of a trademark if it is identical with
 an earlier trademark and there is similarity of goods/services covered
 by the trademark or where the trademark sought to be registered is
 similar to an earlier trademark, there being identity or similarity with
 goods/services covered by the trademark, because of which there is
 likelihood of confusion on the part of the public including likelihood
 of association with the earlier trademark. It is clear from a reading of
 sub-section (2) that a trademark shall not be registered if it is identical
 with or similar to an earlier trademark and is to be registered for
 goods/services which are not similar to those for which the earlier
 trademark is registered in the name of a different proprietor, if or to
 the extent the earlier trademark is a well-known trademark in India
 and use of the later mark, without due cause, would take unfair
 advantage of or be detrimental to the distinctive character or repute of
 the earlier trademark. The common thread that runs in Section 11(1) and (2) is the identity/similarity with an 'earlier trade mark'. This
 expression has been defined in the 'Explanation' following Section
 11(4) and is as follows: 15. Petitioner is unable to make out a case under any of the
 categories mentioned in the Explanation. Petitioner's trademark

 is neither a registered trademark in India nor a trademark
 covered by an application relatable to Section 18 or Section 36E or Section 154 of the 1999 Act and pertinently, this is not even a pleaded
 case of the Petitioner. Petitioner's trademark is also not a 'well-known
 trade mark' as defined under Section 2(1)(zg) of the 1999 Act, which
 'means a mark which has become so to the substantial segment of the
 public which uses such goods or receives such services that the use of
 such mark in relation to other goods or services would be likely to be
 taken as indicating a connection in the course of trade or rendering of
 services between those goods or services and a person using the mark
 in relation to the first-mentioned goods or services'. Section 11(6) enumerates the factors which are required to be taken into
 consideration by the Registrar of Trade Marks while deciding whether
 a trademark qualifies to be a well-known trademark. Pleadings in the
 petition do not sufficiently indicate that Petitioner's mark fulfills all
 parameters to qualify as a well-known trademark as required by Section 11(6) albeit Petitioner has set up a case of the trademark being
 popular and known in several countries abroad such as UK, where it is
 stated to have been launched in 2014/2015, Japan, Canada, Australia
 as well as in India since the year 2020. It is also not the case of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 11 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 Petitioner that the said trademarks have been declared as well-known
 trademarks by the Registrar of Trade Marks or any other Court. Therefore, seen holistically, Petitioner's trademark cannot
 be classified as 'earlier trade mark' for the purpose of Section 11(1) and (2) and the contention to this extent is rejected. 16. A similar issue arose before this Court in BPI Sports LLC v.
 Saurabh Gulati and Another , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 2424, where a
 petition was filed under Section 57 of the 1999 Act, seeking
 rectification of the Register of Trade Marks by removal of the
 trademark 'BPI SPORTS' registered as a word mark in favour of
 Respondent No.1 therein for health food supplements, dietary
 supplements, etc. Petitioner therein was a company incorporated in
 Florida, USA and claimed to be a leading player in the dietary and
 nutritional supplements sector and the word mark 'BPI SPORTS' and
 a device mark was registered in its favour for the said supplements in
 USA. After examining and deliberating on the issues raised, the Court
 held as under:- 24. The petitioner's BPI SPORTS trade mark is neither a registered
 trade mark, nor a trade mark covered by an application relatable to Sections 18 , 36-E or Section 154 of the Trade Marks Act. Nor does
 the petition so aver. xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx 26. There is, admittedly, no declaration of the petitioner's mark as a
 "well-known trade mark". Given the fact that the petitioner has
 entered the Indian market only in 2019, it is extremely questionable
 as to whether the petitioner's BPI SPORTS mark qualifies as a well-
 known trade mark on the basis of criteria that envisaged in Section
 11(6) . 27. The petitioner's marks, therefore, do not qualify as "earlier trade
 marks" for the purposes of Section 11 . Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 11 would not, therefore, apply in the present case." 17. Having examined the matter further, this Court is of the view
 that Petitioner has been able to substantiate his case of 'prior user' of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 13 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 the trademark which was coined and adopted by the
 Petitioner in 2014 and for which he subsequently secured the domain
 name www.rockpapa.com. To buttress the case of 'prior user', learned
 counsel relied upon the judgments in Milmet Oftho (supra), Neon
 Laboratories (supra) and S. Syed Mohideen (supra). In Milmet Oftho (supra), the Supreme Court held that the ultimate test should be, who
 is 'first in the market', where the trademarks are similar. In Neon
 Laboratories (supra), the Supreme Court observed that 'first user'
 rule is a seminal part of the 1999 Act and in fact recognized that the
 right of a 'prior user' is superior to a registrant of the trademark,
 reiterating and reaffirming the law declared in S. Syed Mohideen (supra). Therefore, it is a well settled principle of Trademark law that
 a prior user's rights will override the rights of a subsequent user even
 though the latter's mark may be a registered trademark. Petitioner has

 categorically pleaded use of the trademark from 2014 and
 claimed that the same is prior to that of Respondent No. 2, who
 despite being impleaded as a party by the Petitioner and being served
 with the notice of this petition, chose to remain absent, instead of
 contesting the position. In the absence of a reply controverting the
 pleadings, the same have to be treated as admitted albeit in this case
 Petitioner has been able to show 'prior user'. Therefore, in wake of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 14 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 prior use of the trademark by the Petitioner, coupled with
 several registrations abroad, in support of which registration
 certificates, whose validity is unrefuted and unrebutted, have been
 filed, as well as the continuous and uninterrupted use of the mark in
 course of trade in respect of the goods aforementioned, the trademark
 has become distinctive of the goods of the Petitioner and is associated
 with him. 18. There is yet another facet of the matter. A comparison of the
 rival trademarks show that they are similar and Petitioner has also
 brought forth that Respondent No.2 is using the impugned trademark
 for identical goods. For ready reference a comparative of the rival
 trademarks is as follows:- Petitioner's Mark Respondent No. 2's Mark 19. The similarity in the two trademarks is writ large on a bare
 perusal. Two consequences flow from this conclusion under the
 Trademarks regime. Firstly, there is every likelihood of confusion
 amongst the public due to similarity of the rival trademarks and
 identity of the goods of the competing parties and consequent impact
 on the reputation and goodwill of the Petitioner. Secondly, this makes Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 15 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 the impugned mark vulnerable to cancellation of its registration under Section 11(10)(ii) of the 1999 Act which requires the Registrar of
 Trade Marks, while registering the mark, to take into consideration the
 bad faith involved, either of the applicant or the opponent, affecting
 the right relating to the trade mark. The provision was considered and
 interpreted by this Court in BPI Sports LLC (supra) and the Court
 held that a purposive interpretation must be given looking at the intent
 and purpose of sub-section (10)(ii) of Section 11 , which is to disentitle
 registration of a trademark, the request for registration of which is
 tainted by bad faith. The expression 'bad faith' is not defined under
 the 1999 Act and the Court cogitated on the concept by referring to
 some English decisions and dictionaries. Broadly understood, 'bad
 faith' is the opposite of 'good faith' and conceptually understood, it is
 synonymous to 'dishonest intention'. Relevant paragraphs from the
 judgment are as under:- 50. The High Court of Punjab and Haryana, in Bhupinder Singh
 Vohra v. State of Haryana, 1968 SCC OnLine P&H 74 : AIR 1968
 P&H 406, defined "bad faith" thus : 20. Clearly, 'bad faith' is an unfair practice involving lack of honest
 intention, a conscious doing of wrong and not just a mistake. It
 includes dealings which fall short of standards of acceptable
 commercial behaviour. When one examines the adoption of the
 impugned trademark by Respondent No.2 in the present case, there is
 little doubt that there was a dishonest intention in adopting Petitioner's

 similar mark for identical goods including the word ' ' in
 the same colour, font and style, as a part of the device mark. The
 dishonest intention is with a view to encash on the goodwill of the
 trademark of the Petitioner and this gets pronounced by the fact that
 Respondent No.2 has allowed the petition to go uncontested without
 even appearing in the matter, leave alone filing any counter statement
 or evidence to rebut even the 'prior user'. Therefore, the impugned
 trademark is liable to be cancelled and removed from the Register of
 Trade Marks rectifying the Register. 21. Removal of the impugned trademark from the Register of Trade
 Marks is also essential to maintain the purity of the Register. In Paine
 and Co.'s Trade Marks (L. R. (1893) 2 Ch. 567 at page 584 = 10
 RPC 217 at page 232), it was observed that "The purity of the
 Register of Trade Marks is of much importance to trade in general,
 quite apart from the merits or demerits of particular litigants, 'and it
 is the duty of the tribunal to see that no word not 'adapted to
 distinguish' shall be put on the Register in the interest of other
 traders, wholesale and retail, and of the public. If this were not so, the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 18 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 large and wealthy firms with whom the smaller folk are unwilling to
 litigate, could by a system of log-rolling --...-- divide amongst
 themselves all the ordinary words of description and laudation in the
 English language." 22. In Khoday Distilleries Limited (now known as Khoday India
 Limited) v. Scotch Whisky Association and Others , (2008) 10 SCC
 723, the Supreme Court highlighted the importance of maintaining
 purity of the Register of Trade Marks and held that public interest has
 to be kept in view. It was observed that what is necessary for the
 Registrar of Trade Marks, when registering a trademark is to first
 arrive at a conclusion as to whether having regard to the nature of the
 mark sought to be registered and the use thereof as also the class of
 buyers, there is a likelihood of deception or confusion and if the
 answer is in the affirmative, rectification and correction of the
 Register may be entertained. A Co-ordinate Bench of this Court in Mr.
 Sanjay Chadha trading as Eveready Tools Emporium and Anr. v.
 Union of India and Anr., W.P.(C) (IPD) 12/2021 decided on
 17.02.2022, has also emphasized that maintaining purity of the
 Register is in public interest. Section 57 of the Act empowers the High
 Court and the Registrar to make an order for cancelling or varying the
 registration of trademark on an application made in the prescribed
 manner by any person aggrieved. The Supreme Court in Hardie
 Trading Ltd. (supra), considered the phrase 'person aggrieved' albeit
 referring to Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 and the
 interpretation is relevant since grounds of Sections 46 and 56 of the
 said Act are pari materia with Sections 47 and 57 of the 1999 Act.
 Relevant passages from the judgment are as follows:- occurring in Section 69 from consideration for the purposes of this
 judgment. 31. In our opinion the phrase "person aggrieved" for the purposes
 of removal on the ground of non-use under Section 46 has a different
 connotation from the phrase used in Section 56 for cancelling or
 expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the
 Register. 32. In the latter case the locus standi would be ascertained liberally,
 since it would not only be against the interest of other persons
 carrying on the same trade but also in the interest of the public to
 have such wrongful entry removed. It was in this sense that the
 House of Lords defined "person aggrieved" in the matter of Powell's
 Trade Mark, Re, (1894) 11 RPC 4 : 1894 AC 8 : 70 LT 1 (HL): 23. In the present case, in my opinion, case of the Petitioner fits into
 the description of 'person aggrieved' since the registration of the
 impugned trademark operates in restraint of the legal right of the
 Petitioner emanating from prior, long, continuous and uninterrupted
 user since 2014. Surely, the benefit accruing to Respondent No.2 by
 virtue of the registration of the impugned trademark casts a
 corresponding disadvantage on the Petitioner and he has the right and
 locus to assert that registration of the impugned trademark deserves
 to be cancelled and the Register of Trade Marks rectified to that
 extent. 24. For all the aforesaid reasons, this Court finds merit in the
 contentions of the Petitioner and holds that the rectification petition
 deserves to be allowed. Directions are accordingly issued to
 the Registrar of Trade Marks to remove from the Register of Trade

 Marks the trademark (device mark), registered under
 No.4400360 on 07.01.2020 in Class 09 in respect of 'Mobile Phone
 and Mobile Phone Accessories including Mobile Phone Charger,
 Adaptor and Travel Charger, Battery, Tempered Glass Screen
 Protectors for Smartphones, Power-Bank, Mobile Cover, Memory
 Card, Card Reader, Handsfree included in Class 09' and rectify Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 21 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07 the Register to maintain its purity. The needful shall be done
 within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this judgment.
 Registry is directed to forward a copy of the judgment to the Registrar
 of Trade Marks for due compliance. 25. Petition is allowed in the aforesaid terms and disposed of.
 Pending application also stands disposed of. JYOTI SINGH, J
 SEPTEMBER _15_, 2023/ck/kks Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:KAUSHAL C.O. (COMM.IPD-TM) 2/2021 Page 22 of 22 KUMAR SACHDEVA Signing Date:20.09.2023 18:46:07