Frauds related to biometric cloning and the Aadhaar-enabled Payment System (AePS) contributed to 11 per cent of the cyber-enabled financial crimes in 2023, informed Rajesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer of the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C)– a cyber-crime wing under the Ministry of Home Affairs. The I4C chief, while speaking at the organisation’s annual conference , said that most of the AePS frauds originated from parts of Jharkhand and Bihar.

What are AePS frauds?

The AePS was established by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) to enable basic banking services through MicroATMs. These transactions are carried out by a business correspondent of any bank using Aadhaar authentication—requiring just the bank name, Aadhaar number, and biometrics of the user captured during enrolment. The AePS has infamously gained attention due to its rampant misuse to siphon off people’s money by fraudsters who deceive the system using cloned biometrics.

For example, in 2022, an investigation by the Uttar Pradesh police revealed that a customer service agent was able to clone people’s Aadhaar fingerprints using butter paper, rubber or a polymer, and a fingerprint authorising machine. The cloned fingerprints were then used to withdraw money from the victim’s bank account using a fake AePS banking ID.

Why does it matter:

The data provided by I4C on the prevalence of biometric cloning and AePS frauds is worth highlighting given the government’s denial of Aadhaar-related financial scams. In light of a surge in AePS frauds in Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana, member of Parliament John Brittas, Communist Party of India (Marxist), had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the government to take cognisance of the cybercrimes and rising instances of financial frauds associated with the AePS system. The I4C had also issued a cautionary letter in February 2023 regarding the biometric data being stolen from State government websites to perpetrate the crime.

UIDAI’s denial of Aadhaar data cloning incidences: In July 2023, while answering parliament questions related to a rise in AePS frauds, the Minister of State (MoS) for Finance Dr Bhagwat Karad said , “UIDAI has apprised that no incident of cloning of Aadhaar data has been reported.” However, the claim made by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) is in sharp contrast to the investigation details revealed in cases related to AePS frauds reported from Andhra Pradesh , Uttar Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh and Haryana . These incidents mainly brought to light several inter-state gangs operating across different States, who are mainly involved in cloning Aadhaar-linked fingerprints to withdraw money from people’s bank accounts.

Most recently, Kolkata police’s initial investigation into the modus operandi of the fraudsters revealed that the individuals were able to steal people’s biometric details by downloading multiple land deeds from the State’s property registration website. In light of this, the West Bengal State Criminal Investigation Department wrote to the I4C , urging the agency to mask Aadhaar details on the land deeds available on their Land or Revenue department websites.

The gaps in the security of people’s personal data available on government websites are being exploited to conduct financial crimes, raising critical questions about the security of the Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR) maintained by the UIDAI, which serves as a database for biometric and demographic information of one’s Aadhaar.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event