Counsel for the Petitioner: Yes/No

 ___________________
 JUSTICE HARINATH.N 3 APHC010510832024
 IN THE HIGH COURT OF ANDHRA PRADESH
 AT AMARAVATI [3457]
 (Special Original Jurisdiction)

 TUESDAY ,THE TENTH DAY OF DECEMBER
 TWO THOUSAND AND TWENTY FOUR
 PRESENT
 THE HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE HARINATH.N
 CRIMINAL PETITION NO: 8201/2024
Between: 2. It is alleged that the de facto complainant noticed a posting on the social

media platform Facebook on 08.11.2024 posted by the petitioner. The posting

related to defamatory content concerning the Deputy Chief Minister and the 4 Chief Minister of the State, with the intention to defame both. The petitioner is

alleged to have used abusive language in the said posting. The posting is

further alleged to have caused political disturbance that could lead to

escalated violence. A complaint was lodged by the de facto complainant. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has

been made an accused in two other crimes for the same postings. However,

in those cases, the petitioner was not alleged to have committed offenses

under Section 111(2)(b) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), 2023. The

learned counsel for the petitioner submits that to attract an offense under

Section 111, the mandate of the section requires, the petitioner to be accused

of two other offenses where charge sheets are filed against the petitioner

within a preceding period of ten years and the Court must have taken

cognizance of such offenses. It is also submitted that the acts against the

petitioner do not constitute organized crime as defined under Section 111 of

Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), 2023. It is also submitted that Section 67 of

Information Technology Act cannot be applicable to the facts of the case. 4. The learned counsel for the petitioner placed reliance on the judgments

of Suraj Singh @ Noni vs. State of Punjab1 and Muhmmad Rasheed vs.

State of Kerala2 . 1 2024:PHHC:127296 5 5. The learned Public Prosecutor submits that more than 35 cases have

been registered across the state against various persons for similar abusive

postings on social media. The learned Public Prosecutor further submits that

the applicability of Section 111(2)(b) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS),

should be decided by the Courts. It is also submitted that interim protection

has been granted in all cases to petitioners who approached the Court

seeking anticipatory bail. 6. The primary contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner that

section 111 of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) would not be applicable to the

facts of this case requires consideration of this Court. 7. Section 111 of Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) reads as follows: 8. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of State of Maharashtra vs.

Shiva Alias Shivaji Ramaji Sonawane and others 3 was dealing with the Maharashra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (Mcoc) Act and the

offense of organised crime of the said act. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has

held that only if an organized crime is committed by the accused after the

promulgation of Mcoc Act that he may be seen in the light of previous charge

sheet which is taken cognizance by the competent court, would have

committed an offense under Section 3 of the Act. 3 2015 SCC Online SC 648 10 9. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Mohamad Iliyas

Mohamad Bilal Kapadiya vs. The State of Gujarat4 held that to invoke the

provisions of Gujarat control of terrorism and organized act crime, 2015 in

respect of an act of organized crime more than one charge sheet should be

filed in the preceding ten years. Section 111 of B.N.S is analogous to the

organized crime acts of various states which were dealt with by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court. 10. The Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in the matter of Mohammed Hashim

vs. State of Kerala 5 . The learned Judge of the Kerala High Court has

emphasized that Section 111 can be invoked only if more than one charge

sheet has been filed for such offenses in the preceding ten years before a

competent court and such charge sheets are taken cognizance by the court. 11. This Court agrees with the observations of the Kerala High Court and

admittedly, no charge sheet is filed against the petitioner for similar offenses

in any court of law in the preceding ten years as such, cause for invocation of

Section 111 of B.N.S. has to be dealt appropriately by the investigating officer

during the course of investigation of the crime. 4 2022 Live Law (SC) 538 5 2024 SCC Online Ker 5260 11 12. Insofar as application of the provisions of Section 67 of the Information

Technology Act, the law has evolved over a period of time. Section 67 of the

Information Technology Act reads as follows: 13. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter of Apoorva Arora and

another vs. State (Government of NCT of Delhi and another 6 has dealt

with the evolution of the law insofar as the applicability of Section 67 of the

Information Technology Act. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has considered the 6 2024 LiveLaw (SC) 243 12 various judicial precedents which considered the applicability of the Hicklin

test to determine whether the book 'lady Chatterley's Lover' was obscene in

the decision of Ranjit D. Udeshi v. State of Maharashtra as per the Hicklin

test, a material is obscene if it tends to deprave and corrupt the minds of those

who are open to such immoral influences and into whose hands the

publication is likely to fall. 14. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has also considered in the judgment Aveek Sarkar & Anr vs State Of West Bengal And Anr 7 , the Hon'ble

Supreme Court held that the Court held that while judging a photograph,

article or book to be obscene, "regard must be had to the contemporary

morals and national standards and not the standard of a group of susceptible

or sensitive persons". The Court held that the Hicklin test must not be

applied as it "judged for obscenity based on isolated passages of a work

considered out of context and judged by their apparent influence on most

susceptible readers, such as children or weak-minded adults." Even in the

United States, where the test was first formulated, the courts no longer apply

the Hicklin test and instead apply the test formulated in Rohith v. United

States where the US Supreme Court held that sex-related material is

obscene only when it has the tendency of exciting lustful thoughts when

judged from the perspective of an average person by applying the community 7 2014 4 SCC 257 13 standards test. Similarly, in Canada, the dominant test is the 'community

standards problem test' as per which a work qualifies as obscene when the

exploitation of sex is its dominant characteristic and such exploitation is

undue. Taking note of these jurisprudential developments, the Court in

Aveek Sarkar markedly moved away from the Hicklin test to the "community

standard test" where the material is considered as a whole to determine

whether the specific portions have the tendency to deprave and corrupt. The

Hon'ble Supreme Court has allowed the appeal by holding that no offense of

publication or transmission of any material in electronic found, which is

obscene, lascivious, or appeals to prurient interest, and/or having the effect

of tending to deprave and corrupt persons, as provided under Section 67 of

the IT Act is made out. 15. Considering the allegations and after hearing the submissions of the

learned Public Prosecutor, this Court is inclined to grant bail to the petitioner

and hereby allows the application on the following conditions:- 16. With the above conditions, the criminal petition is allowed. Miscellaneous petitions, if any pending, in the Criminal Petition, shall

stand closed. ___________________
 JUSTICE HARINATH.N
10.12.2024
NKA 15 HONOURABLE SRI JUSTICE HARINATH.N Crl.P.No.8201 of 2024 (Allowed)
 Date: 10.12.2024

NKA