1. Vide this judgment, I seek to dispose off the case of the prosecution filed
against the accused Sanjay Kumar Matre for having committed the offence
punishable U/S 380, 411 of Indian Penal Code , 1861 (hereinafter referred as " IPC "). 2. Briefly stated, the case of prosecution is that on 02.08.2022 between 5 to 5 :15
AM at H. NO. RZF­1/120 A, Laxmi Niwas, Gali no.1, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi,
the accused had committed theft of two inverter batteries belonging to the
complainant Narender Dixit from his house which were kept under the staircase of
the house of the complainant. These inverter batteries were recovered on 09.08.2022
from the house of the accused located at F­63, Gali no. 4, Mahavir Enclave, New
Delhi during investigation of another case FIR no. 582/22 U/S 379, 411, 34 IPC registered in PS­ Palam Village. 3. After completing the formalities, investigation was carried out by PS Palam
Village and a charge sheet was filed against the accused. Thereafter, charge U/S
380/411 IPC was framed against the accused vide order dated 21.03.2023, to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 4. In order to prove the guilt of accused persons, the prosecution examined
following five witnesses: 5. PW­1 is the complainant and only public witness in this case. During the
examination in chief, he deposed that on 02.08.2022, he had lodged one E­FIR Ex.
PW­1/A regarding theft of inverter batteries from his house. He further deposed that
during investigation, police recorded his statement Ex. PW­1/B, prepared site plan at
his instance Ex. PW­1/C bearing his signature at point A. He also stated that he
supplied the bill of battery to police i.e. Ex. PW­1/D and during investigation, he
received information from PS­ Palam Village regarding recovery of his stolen battery
by accused as well as one other person. This witness also correctly identified the
accused and stated that he got the case property i.e. batteries released and the identity
of the case property is not disputed by Ld. Defence counsel. During his cross
examination, he deposed that police visited his house on the day of occurrence i.e.
02.08.2022 and also made inquiry from his neighbors regarding the incidence
however, the same cannot be believed to be correct as the statement of the
complainant itself was recorded by HC Ram Avtar on 03.08.2022. Further, it is
pertinent to note that as apparent from the charge­sheet, the complainant was not
present at his house when the alleged occurrence of theft was committed and he was
informed about the occurrence by his wife over phone however, for the reasons best
known to the investigating agency, the wife of the complainant has not been cited as
witness in this case and the complainant has been cited as witness despite the fact that
complainant was not even present at his house at the time of alleged occurrence of
theft. PS Palam Village 4 6. PW­2 HC Surender deposed that on 09.08.2022, he along with HC Chet Ram
and Ct. Lovkesh were on patrolling duty at Beat No.10 where one secret informer met
them and informed that one person who is involving in committing theft in houses is
about to come to sell stolen property at Nasir Pur Road. Upon such information, this
witness along with the HC Chet Ram and Ct. Lovkesh and secret informer reached at
the spot i.e Nasir Pur Road, near Pakora Park, where they saw one person coming
from the side of Nasir Pur Village and on pointing out by the secret informer, they
apprehended him and on his search, they recovered one inverter along with one
battery. This witness further deposed that upon inquiry, the accused revealed his
name as Sanjay Kumar Matrey S/o Sh. Lala Ram and they inquired about the said
inverter and battery but the accused could not give any satisfactory reply. Thereafter,
this witness got verified the said items which were found to be stolen in E­FIR
bearing no. 582/ 22 PS­ Palam Village. This witness further deposed that during
investigation in the case FIR No. 582/2022, the accused made disclosure statement
regarding commission of theft in the present case FIR and at the pointing out of the
accused, they recovered the stolen battery from the house of the accused and the same
was seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW2/A bearing signatures of this witness at point
A and the said stolen battery was case property in the present case FIR and thus, this
witness shared the information about the recovery of the battery with the IO of the
present case. This witness further deposed that IO also recorded his statement U/S
161 Cr. P.C during the investigation of the present case. This witness correctly
identified the accused and identity of the case property i.e. battery was not disputed
by Ld. Defence Counsel. PS Palam Village 5 7. PW­4 HC Chet Ram and PW­5 HC Lovkesh were also accompanying PW­2
HC Surender on the day when the accused was apprehended in case FIR no. 582/22
thus, both these witnesses also deposed on the same lines as that of PW­2 and thus,
their testimony is not being reproduced to avoid repetition. However, it is pertinent to
note that PW­2 HC Surender stated that accused was apprehended on 09.08.2022
whereas PW­4 and PW­5 who were accompanying PW­2 when the accused was
apprehended, deposed that the accused was apprehended on 10.08.2022. It is further
important to note that both PW­4 and PW­5 stated that they had apprehended two
persons namely Sanjay Kumar Matre and Rahul @ Manu with one sack which was
found containing Luminous Battery and MicroTech inverter which were stolen in
Case FIR no. 582/22 and during investigation of that case FIR, upon disclosure of
accused Sanjay Kumar Matre, case property of present case FIR was recovered.
However, PW­2 HC Surender did not depose about apprehension of two accused
persons in case FIR no. 582/22 and had only deposed about apprehension of one
accused person which is even in contradiction with the statement of complainant,
who has deposed that he was informed by police official of PS­ Palam Village that
his batteries were stolen by accused as well as some other person. 8. PW­3 HC Ramavtar is the IO in this case and he deposed that investigation of
this case was marked to him on 03.08.2022 and he recorded statement of complainant
Ex. PW­1/B bearing his signature at point B, prepared site plan Ex. PW­1/C bearing
his signature at point B. He further stated that during the investigation, he was
informed by PW­2 HC Surender that the accused had made disclosure statement
regarding commission of theft of articles of this case FIR, in case FIR no. 582/22, FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 6 pursuant to which accused was arrested vide arrest memo Ex. PW­3/A bearing
signature of this witness at point A and disclosure statement of accused i.e. Ex. PW­
3/B was recorded by this witness, bearing signature of this witness at point A. This
witness further stated that he recorded statement of witnesses U/S 161 Cr.P.C . This
witness also correctly identified the accused and identity of the case property was not
disputed by Ld. Defence Counsel. 9. After examination of all prosecution witnesses, at the request of Ld. APP, PE
was closed on 26.09.2023. Thereafter, statement of the accused was recorded on
30.10.2023 U/S 313 Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (" Cr.P.C ") wherein he
denied the allegations and claimed that the batteries were stolen by one boy namely
Rahul and the accused was only accompanying him to the police station as he used to
assist Rahul in doing electricity work at different houses. He admitted that the
batteries were recovered at his instance however, he stated that the same were
recovered as he was aware of the shop where Rahul has sold those inverter batteries.
The accused claimed false implication and stated that he does not wish to lead
defence evidence. 10. I have heard the Ld. APP and Ld. defence counsel and have perused the case
file. 11. The Ld. APP urged that testimonies of the material witnesses have remained
unchallenged in the cross­examination and there is no reason to doubt their
testimonies. The Ld. Counsel for the accused, on the other hand, argued that material
contradictions have appeared in the testimonies of the PWs and prosecution has not FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 7 been able to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. Hence, benefit
of doubt must be given to the accused. 12. For the sake of convenience, I shall be discussion the culpability of accused
U/S 380/411 IPC . CULPABILITY OF ACCUSED U/S 380 IPC 13. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs of this judgment, the accused Sanjay
Kumar Matre has been charged for the offence of theft punishable U/S 380 IPC .
Perusal of testimonies available on record clearly suggests that there is absolutely no
incriminating evidence against accused Sanjay Kumar Matre which shows that the
accused has committed the theft of inverter batteries from the house of the
complainant on 02.08.2022 between 5 to 5:15 AM. Admittedly, there is no direct
evidence of the occurrence of theft from the house of complainant. The only public
witness of the prosecution is PW­1 Narender Dixit however, admittedly, this witness
was not even present in the house when the alleged occurrence had happened and as
apparent from the charge­sheet, he was informed about the occurrence of theft by his
wife and he was in his office at the time of alleged occurrence. The prosecution has
not even cited the wife of the complainant as witness in this case FIR. Further, in the
charge­sheet, it is nowhere stated that the wife of the complainant had seen the
accused committing the offence of theft from her house. Further, admittedly, no TIP
of the accused and no TIP of the case property was conducted in this matter. PS Palam Village 8 14. PW­1 is the complainant and only public witness in the present case however,
he too failed to support the case of prosecution qua the fact that accused Sanjay
Kumar Matre had stolen his inverter batteries from his house. During his testimony,
though, he correctly identified the accused however, he himself stated that he was
told by police officials in the police station that accused along with one other person
has committed theft of his batteries. Thus, the identity of the accused as the offender
was disclosed to this witness by police official and admittedly, he was not even
present at his house at the time of alleged occurrence thus, he could not have
identified the accused, as the one who had committed the theft of batteries from his
house. Thus, the prosecution has failed to establish the identity of the accused as the
person who had committed the offence of theft. The identity of the accused in a
criminal trial is of utmost importance and the prosecution is required to establish the
same beyond reasonable doubt. 15. In the instant case, there is no eye witness of the alleged occurrence of theft.
Admittedly, the complainant himself is also not eye witness of the occurrence as he
was in his office at the time of alleged occurrence and he was intimated by his wife
about the alleged occurrence. Rest of the witnesses examined by prosecution were
police witnesses who were not present at the spot at the time of incident. Their
testimonies are entirely based upon the disclosure statement of the accused which is
not admissible in evidence. Hence, their testimonies would not be sufficient enough
to properly establish the identity of the accused in the present case as the person who
has committed the theft of batteries from the house of complainant. PS Palam Village 9 16. Therefore, in view of the discussions made above, I am of the considered view
that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of accused Sanjay Kumar Matre
beyond reasonable doubt for the offence of theft. CULPABILITY OF ACCUSED U/S 411 IPC 17. As discussed in the preceding paragraphs of this judgment, as per the case of
prosecution, accused had allegedly committed theft of batteries from the house of
complainant and the same were recovered from the possession of the accused, and,
therefore, an alternate charge was framed against him for the offence U/S 411 IPC . 18. Section 411 IPC deals with the offence of dishonestly receiving stolen
properties. It reads as under: 19. In the case of Rajender Kumar Vs. State (Delhi Administration ), (1983) 23
Del LT 42, it was held that in order to bring home the guilt of the person under this
provision, it is the duty of the prosecution to prove the following; (i)That the stolen property was in the possession of the accused; (ii)That some person, other than the accused had the possession of the
 property before the accused got possession of it, and FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 10 (iii)That the accused had knowledge that the property was the stolen property. 20. Therefore, the crucial fact which needs to be established by the prosecution in
order to bring home the culpability of accused is the existence of knowledge about
the batteries being a stolen property and the accused having received possession of
the same from some other person. In order to prove liability of accused U/S 411 IPC ,
the prosecution has primarily relied upon the testimony of PW­2 HC Surender. 21. PW­2 HC Surender was the police official who had arrested the accused in
case FIR no. 582/22 and recovered stolen batteries from his possession (from the
house of the accused during the investigation in case FIR no. 582/22 pursuant to
disclosure made by accused in case FIR no. 582/22). In his testimony, PW­2 had
completely supported the case of the prosecution that the stolen batteries belonging to
the complainant were recovered from the house of the accused. 22. It should be noted that the alleged recovery of the stolen batteries from the
accused could not be conclusively established by the prosecution in as much as no
public witness or independent witnesses were examined by the prosecution during the
trial. In fact, none of them were joined in the investigation. PW­2 in his cross­
examination had admitted that the place from where the stolen batteries were
recovered was a residential area and public persons were available there and he had
tried to join the public persons in the investigation, however, they refused and left the
place. Similarly PW­4 and PW­5 during their cross examination, had admitted
availability of public witnesses at the spot of recovery. PS Palam Village 11 23. If the public persons were really present at the spot, then the police officials
should have made endeavor to get them join the investigation. They should have
issued notice asking them to join the investigation. On their refusal, necessary action
as per law could have been taken against them. 24. The failure on the part of PW­2 to give notice to the public persons would go
on to suggest that he was not interested in joining them in the police proceedings.
Failure on the part of the police officials to make sincere effort to join public
witnesses for the proceedings when they may be available creates reasonable doubt in
the prosecution story. Reference can be taken from the decision of Anoop Joshi Vs.
State 1992 (2) C.C. Cases 314 (HC), Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has observed as
under; 25. While the testimony of the police officials cannot be discarded away merely
because of the fact that no public witnesses were not examined, however, their
testimonies should be scrutinised in more detail. If it is found the police officials FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 12 during the course of investigation did not even make endeavour to ask the public
witnesses to join the investigation, did not even ask their names and details etc. then
it would cast a very serious doubt on the testimonies of the police officials. At this
stage, reference can be taken from the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Tahir v. State (Delhi ) [(1996) 3 SCC 338], dealing with a similar question,
the Hon'ble Apex Court held interalia the following: 26. The requirement of the police officials to make endeavour to ask the public
witnesses to join the proceedings was discussed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
case of Sahib Singh vs. State of Punjab AIR 1997 SC 2417, wherein it interalia held
the following: 27. Similar observation was made by the Hon'ble Punjab & Haryana High Court in
the case of Roop Chand vs. State of Haryana 1999 (1) CLR 69, wherein the Hon'ble
Court while discussing the role of public witnesses in criminal investigation, had
interalia held the following: PS Palam Village 14 28. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Pradeep Narayan
Madgaonkar v. State of Maharashtra (1995) 4 SCC 255 dealt with the issue of the
requirement of the examination of an independent witness, and whether the evidence
of a police witness requires corroboration. The Hon'ble Apex Court held that though
the same must be subject to strict scrutiny, however, the evidence of police officials
cannot be discarded merely on the ground that they belong to the police force and are
either interested in the investigation or in the prosecution. However, as far as possible
the corroboration of their evidence on material particulars should be sought. 29. Therefore, in view of the above mentioned case law, it becomes clear that
while the testimony of the police officials cannot be discarded away forthwith in the
absence of any public witnesses, however, it would be prudent to examine or
scrutinise their testimonies more closely and should preferably be corroborated.
Accused may be convicted on the basis of the testimonies of the police officials if
their testimonies are found to be reliable and trustworthy. 30. In the instant case, as discussed above, no effort was made by PW­2 in order to
join the public witnesses during the recovery. No public witness has been examined
by the prosecution in order to prove the factum of recovery of stolen batteries from
the possession of accused. It is also important to note that no spot map of the place of
recovery has been made. Further, no TIP of the case property has been conducted to
establish the fact that the batteries recovered from the possession of the accused
belonged to the complainant. Further, the case property i.e. batteries were released to
the complainant without preparing detailed Panchnama in terms of order dated FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 15 16.08.2022 passed by my Ld. Predecessor. Further, neither the case property nor its
photographs were produced during trial. Further, as already discussed above, there is
contradiction in the testimony of PW­2, PW­4 and PW­5 with respect to the date of
apprehension of the accused in case FIR no. 582/22 and also with respect to the fact
as to how many persons were apprehended by them. As per version of PW­4 and PW­
5, the accused was apprehended on 10.08.2022 whereas the seizure memo of the case
property was itself prepared on 09.08.2022 which suggests that either both these
witnesses are not deposing correctly or this document i.e. seizure memo Ex. PW­2/A
is anti­timed, in any of the scenario, doubt is created in the story of prosecution. 31. Be that as it may, even if I consider testimony of PW­2 as relevant in evidence,
it should be noted that his testimony would only prove the fact that the stolen
batteries were recovered from the possession of accused. However, it would not
prove the fact the said batteries were retained by him with the knowledge that the
same was a stolen property. Further, the same do not in any manner establish that
accused had received possession of the stolen batteries from some other person. In
fact, this was precisely the duty of prosecution to impute the existence of knowledge
on the part of accused. Mere disclosure of this fact in his disclosure statement would
not be of any help to the prosecution as the disclosure statement is not admissible in
law. Further, since as per the story of prosecution, the batteries were recovered on
09.08.2022 whereas the theft of the same was committed on 02.08.2022, thus, in such
a scenario even presumption provided U/S 114 of IEA is not attracted. If the recovery
would have been recent, then the court may have raised a presumption U/S 114 Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (herein after referred as ' Evidence Act ') regarding the fact FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 16 that the accused is either the thief or a receiver of the stolen property. Reference can
be taken from illustration (a) to section 114 of Evidence Act. 32. It should be noted that in order to raise presumption U/S 114 (a) Evidence Act the interval between the theft and recovery of the stolen articles from the possession
of the accused should be short. Although there is no strait jacket formula to decide the
length of such intervening period, however, the same would depend upon the facts
and circumstances of each case. If the possession vis­a­vis stolen articles recovered
from the accused does not seem to be natural one then the accused can be convicted
even if this intervening period is a bit longer than usual. Reference can be taken from
the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ali Sher vs. State of U.P. AIR
1974 SC 1830. 33. Hence, in view of the above discussions, it becomes clear that in order to raise
presumption U/S 114(a) Evidence Act , the prosecution needs to establish the
following: and (iii) Interval between the theft and recovery of stolen articles from the
 possession of accused persons should be short. 34. In the instant case, the factum of theft of batteries from the house of
complainant has not been proved. Further, as discussed above, the recovery of stolen FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village 17 batteries at the instance of accused is also doubtful as no Public witnesses were
associated in the recovery and even no site plan of the place of recovery has been
made and even TIP of the case property was not conducted. Further, the interval
between the theft of batteries and its recovery is almost a week, thus, a presumption
U/S 114 Evidence Act can not be raised against the accused. Further, the accused in
his statement U/S 313 Cr.P.C , also did not admit the recovery of stolen batteries from
his house and even claimed that the same were recovered at his instance from one
shop where the accused used to sell the stolen batteries. 35. Therefore, in view of the discussion made above and finding, I am of the
considered view that the while there maybe grave suspicions against the accused
Sanjay Kumar Matre, however, the prosecution has failed to prove his guilt for
offence U/S 411 IPC beyond reasonable doubt. 36. Hence, the accused Sanjay Kumar Matre stands acquitted for the offence
punishable U/S 380/411 IPC . It is certified that this judgment contains 17 pages and each page bears my
signatures. (Aishwarya Sharma)
 MM­01 South West District, Dwarka,
 New Delhi FIR NO. 554/2022 PS Palam Village