The Ministry of Finance released a draft bill that proposes to ban unregulated lending alongside prohibiting advertisements, promotions and wrongful inducement related to such lending practices. The bill, reviewed by MediNama, was laid open for stakeholder consultation and circulated with several government departments and industry bodies in the banking and finance sector.

Termed the Banning of Unregulated Lending Activities (Draft) Bill, it defines unregulated lending as any lending activity not covered by existing banking and finance laws, including but not limited to digital lending. The bill also allows the government and regulators to notify additional activities as “unregulated lending” at a future point in time and ban them.

The government will appoint officers of the rank of secretary or above as the “Competent Authority” entrusted with enforcing the Act. If said authority believes that an entity may be engaged in unregulated lending, then it has the power to provisionally attach the entity’s accounts.

The authority would also have the same powers as a civil court while conducting an investigation, allowing it to summon and examine individuals under oath and compel the production of records. The proceedings of the authority’s investigation will have the same status as judicial proceedings under sections 227 (pertaining to false evidence) and 265 (obstruction to apprehension) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), India’s Penal Code.

The government shall also have to assign a Designated Court to examine matters under this Act.

Under the bill, the government shall designate an authority to create and maintain a central database of lenders operating in India. This database would also be accessible to the public, allowing them to search for information about regulated lenders and report illegal practices.

Lenders would also have to intimate the authority about their business and provide any information or documents if the latter suspects ongoing practices of unregulated lending. Further, any banking company who believes that their client is an unregulated lender must inform the authorities.

Under the bill, unregulated lenders face jail time from two to seven years alongside a fine ranging from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 1 crore. If the lender is not an individual, then those in charge of the operation, alongside other members will be punished.

Those found guilty of wrongful inducement, which refers to influencing people to take loans from unregulated lenders through deceptive or misleading statements, face a jail term between one and five years and a fine up to Rs 2 lakh.

Repeat offenders, meanwhile, are liable to serve time from five to ten years with a fine ranging from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 crore.

All of the above offences are cognizable and non-bailable.

Lenders who do not inform the government of their business or fail to provide the requested information will have to pay a fine of up to Rs 5 lakh.

If a newspaper or other publication carries an advertisement or statement promoting unregulated lending, then the government may direct them to publish a full retraction.

The bill also grants power to police officers to enter and search buildings without a warrant, as well as seize any records or properties found therein. The police may also forgo written authorization for the above, if they believe that it would allow for the concealment of evidence. If it is not practicable to seize evidence, then the police may order the freezing of bank accounts or properties that may be related to unregulated lending.

This draft bill comes after multiple reports of illegal and predatory digital lending operations in India. Just last month, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested two Chinese individuals for operating a predatory digital lending scheme where they disbursed short-term loans with high interest rates. The lenders then recollected the loans by harassing and blackmailing the borrowers and sent the proceeds abroad through cryptocurrencies.

In 2022, the ED raided the offices of Cashfree, RazorPay and Paytm in connection with these apps. The government also blocked 138 betting apps and 94 loan lending apps over alleged Chinese links.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event