SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: WTF is Demonetisation - Part II
DATE: 2016-11-30
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5fpo2v/wtf_is_demonetisation_part_ii/

--- POST TEXT ---

What is Participatory Note?
Participatory notes are not mere instruments used by Pakistan to invest in our economy. Modi says he goes to a lot of foreign countries to bring in Foreign Investment.

Out of such Foreign Investments, the highest a country has invested is not US or the UK or France or Germany or any other major country but a tiny island called Mauritius. 

A small Island off Indian Ocean whose total population would be about 12 L! Mauritius has invested more than 40% in India. 

Many other such islands like Cayman islands etc exist. How did such islands get such huge money to invest in India and who exactly are those people? Whose money is it anyways? 

That money is none other than the illegal stash of the Indian crony capitalists! The money starts from India and goes on a sight seeing trip across many countries and finally gets to Mauritius - which then finds its way back to India as Foreign Investment!

If the illegal money that is in circulation in India is Jeevatma, the illegal money circulating around the globe is Paramatma - in the language the BJP folk can understand!

Jeevatma becomes one with the Paramatma, this indian sewer water gets mixed with International sewer waters, then when it comes back to India again via Mauritius, it is the Pure Virgin Ganges water or Foreign Investment - Modi will do snanam and worship it and welcome it with folded hands!

The very same black money that they say they are trying to eradicate, has come back as Foreign Investment, and it gets lots of subsidies when it comes back to India!

So who's taking it away to Foreign countries? How do they take it?Let's for a moment forget TATA, Birla, Ambani, Adani etc, among the fat cats there are individual fat cats like our ministers - yes Ministers! Many of these Ministers who do not even have a standard education have property in foreign countries, coal, iron ore factories abroad and even whole islands in their names! Some of it has come out in the newspapers too!

People like Adani sell solar electricity to states and these ministers make a huge cut out of it. But do they get bribes in a sack and then carry it abroad? No, they just show a benami name and a property will be bought in that name or money transferred in his HSBC bank! So next this minister or that benami comes back as Foreign Investor!

Many of our ministers go on trips to such islands like Cayman Islands - does Modi not know of this? Will Modi ask all of his ministers to submit their travel itinerary for the period they have been in power for audit? 

Let's take an example: The Central Board of Excise and Customs, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence has given a report - 'a scam involving companies inflating the value of coal imports from Indonesia for their power plants thus siphoning money abroad. Initial estimates by the agency pegged the overvaluation at Rs 29,000 crore in the period 2011-2014.'

How did this scam happen? If we had purchased directly from Indonesia, a tonne of coal cost $50. However, it was handed over to other brokers and middlemen aka crony capitalists to purchase it. Coal is still in Indonesia - but it changes hands to 7-8 different countries on paper alone! So when it comes back to India it costs $87! 

So multiply 37 * 70 for a tonne. It involves states Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Kerala! Each state has lost about 1500 Cr due to this scam.

The culprits include state parties and its minister in this along with Adani, Ambani, Ruia, Jindal, India cements etc. Adani has gained 6000 Cr illegally by supplying industrial parts for Gujarat State Electricity Ltd according to Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.

Modi travelled all over India during his election campaign using Adani's Jet. Its behind Adani's money that Modi was able to fund his political campaign!

He travelled with same Adani to Australia to get him permission for mining rights. Just this Nov 18, Adani was given 6000 cr loan for the same Australia mining project!

Can Directorate of Revenue Intelligence ask why coal sold at $50 was sold at $87 - even if they ask they'll say it is business practice - Standard Operating Procedure! Its perfectly legal and cannot be questioned in court too!

All those companies that changed hands in the process just exist in letter pads! Benami Companies! So DRI cannot do anything about this illegal money and all these companies have understanding with the countries where they are stored - so they wont ask and even if they ask it will fizzle out!

So when the govt itself is supporting this washing of Black Money to White through such routes, where does the question of catching the Black Money arise?

Atleast here coal was bought and 29000 cr lost, but there are examples where such operations have taken place in paper alone!

There is another such Island Bahamas whose population is 3.5L only. In 2008, export from India is $ 22,00,000. In 2010 it grew to $ 280,00,000. What do you think that this 3.5 Lakh people bought from India? What was being exported from India? Two companies have done it - Reliance &amp; Essar - petroleum has been exported. Even if the 3.5 Lakh people drive around 24*7 and eat drink and shit petrol, they can't possibly use such a huge amount of petrol as was being exported! So there you go!

This was not just carried out by Ambani's but by Reddy brothers - who swallowed the Bellari, who were powerful to move the state border of karnataka into Andhra! Such efficient people - Sushma Swaraj's disciples! They have exported very high quality iron ore - how much? From the ports the reports says 5000 shiploads have been exported. But Excise has reports only 4000 shiploads. What happened to the remaining 1000 shiploads? Where is the revenue from it? Where has it been invested?

Doesn't Modi know all this?

So Black Money is not something in a hidden box which you can go and collect it and bring it back and deposit Rs. 15,00,000 in everyone's account. Its about handling black money practices - as we've seen above they've devised ways to make such black money laudering routes and practices as legal. This incidentally has happened more during BJP rule. No its not a biased statement.

According to World Bank report during the period 1998 - 2004, it was during the vajpayee rule that such black money practices and black money has flourished to the maximum extent in India. Now you can understand why the news came in today about BJP leading the parties in income from unknown sources. 

In 2011, after scams such as 2G etc started surfacing, Advani started a Rath Yathra against Corruption and Black Money, saying there are 70 Lakh Crores of Black Money stashed abroad, I'll bring it back". Advani was held up as the iron Man - Lauh Purush - as if he'll act like a superman bomb all illegal stashes abroad and bring all black money back but he was bombed by Modi in 2014 who took over his role and got involved with Anna Hazare etc and personally making gullible statements to fool people about 15 L for each account.

However, during UPA rule, in a very important case for Black money, the tax evasion case by Vodafone, the SC ruled that we cannot demand such tax from them. After that, when Pranab Mukherjee brought in rules to avoid such malpractices namely, GAAR - General Anti Avoidance Rules, the person who spoke vociferously against it and did not allow it was none other than our present FM Arun Jaitlee! Not just FM but all the corporates and crony capitalists were against bringing in this rule!

During UPA rule, the BJP asked Congress to bring out names of Swiss Bank holders in Parliament. Pranab Mukherjee ridiculed them in Parliament. Swiss Banks are not giving out names, shall we send the Army? BJP kept quiet and then turned it as if Congress is not giving out names. Today, when BJP is in power, Modi is giving the same answer to SC!

Now, BJP is not keen about money stashed abroad. So they turned their attention towards internal black money (Jeevatma, remember?) So doesn't Modi know who are the kingpins involved? Ok if you don't know who can find it out - Income Tax, Enforcement directorate, Revenue Intelligence, CBI, Finance Ministry are at his disposal! So what are those departments doing?

Either they are in the payrolls of such kingpins or you all have decided not to act on them. So this whole system is nothing but a farce!

So now Modi is trying to bring Black Money out of ordinary people - who have never seen such huge amount of money as quoted in this post - let alone black money! Modi has brought in an emergency situation and panicked the people. Just before this demonetisation, Modi met and discussed with 3 chiefs of Army Navy &amp; Airforce. Why? Because, he feared a civil unrest and wanted to avoid it. This Army has not been sent against the kingpins of black money but if the ordinary people are put to much hardships they know it will lead to outcry and want to avoid it and have taken measures for that.

After doing all this, the BJP representatives when asked if by removing 500 &amp; 1000 notes will BM be curbed, on talk shows they are saying "We never said anything like that. This is a step towards curbing black money."

So why such a drastic measure has been thrust on the common man? There's a reason for their activity. Its not about Black Money or Fake Money but totally irrelevant to it!

Edit:

[Part I](https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5fiory/wtf_is_demonetisation_part_i/)

[Part III](https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/5fxbub/wtf_is_demonetisation_part_iii/)