SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [NP] Got scammed by a summer training institute. Need advice.
DATE: 2017-07-12
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6mpz3z/np_got_scammed_by_a_summer_training_institute/

--- POST TEXT ---

As the title says and here's the full story:

I applied for a summer training for mta education which is associated with Microsoft. They told me that classes will be starting from the 3rd of july in an engineering college nearby. I forwarded this information to one of my friends who went to the college that same day to find out more information and she found out that classes have already started. So the next day we(a group of 3 friends) went to the college and got admission by paying 12.5k and got told our batch would start from 3rd of july. Everything seemed good so far. 

So 3rd of july arrived and we started attending classes. I actually liked the way of teaching and the faculties were friendly to us. There were 3-5batches but about 10-15 students each. This was understandable since my city lacks good training facilities. 

Yesterday our teacher made us all sit down closely and told us his grandmother was sick and he would be leaving for his home. The rest of the course would be done online since we had a little theoretical part left and the rest was practical/project work anyways. This is where we made a mistake of letting him go. Even though i protested a bit, the teacher was ready to talk to our parents if needed and assured us again and again that we would receive our certificates. It was getting late and we had to go home so we did thinking we would discuss it with our families. 

Today came the biggest shock when we learnt that the ones who taught us were from mta india which is a fraud and the legit one was mta education which had recently started classes. The marketing manager of mta india was posing as the manager of mta education all this time and has left the "company" as of now. 

The teacher who taught is still picking up calls and is in contact with us and even now he's assuring us that we will receive our certificates but that certificate has no value since they are a fraud. 

Tldr: Summer trainer posing as another legit trainer scammed us of 12.5k each. 

What do I do? 

Apologies if my writing comes off as "broken", it's 5am and I'm frustrated beyond anything.