1. This order shall dispose of the above mentioned three petitions filed on behalf

 of petitioners Sukhwinder Singh, Randhir Singh and Ravinder Singh @

 Ravinder Singh Parihar seeking grant of regular bail in respect of a case

 registered vide FIR No.015, dated 29.8.2022 at Vigilance Bureau Range,

 District Jalandhar, under Sections 13(1)A read with Section 13(2) of

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Sections 406 , 409 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 471 , 477-A , 120-B of Indian Penal Code. 2. The allegations, in nutshell, are that during the course of checking/audit of

 Karnana Multipurpose Cooperative Agriculture Society Ltd., Village

 Karnana, District SBS Nagar, embezzlement to the tune of

 Rs.7,14,07,596.23/- came to notice and it was found that the said

 embezzlement had been committed by Randhir Singh, Committee Member

 (Ex. President), Sukhwinder Singh, Vice President, Ravinder Singh,

 Committee Member, Mohinder Lal, Committee Member, Kanwaljit Singh,

 Committee Member, Inderjit Dhir (Ex. Secretary) and Harpreet, Cashier. It

 was found that the accused were maintaining 2 computers, wherein in one of

 the said computers, the actual entries were being made, but in the other one,

 false entries were being made and the amount which had been deposited by

 the loanees/investors was not being recorded and it is the said computer

 which used to be shown at the time of audit. PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.02.10 11:11 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioners were

 merely acting as Vice President/Members of the Society and as such, would

 not have any role in the alleged embezzlement and that it is the then Secretary

 and the then Cashier, namely, Inderjit Singh and Harpreet Singh respectively,

 who are the main accused, who had embezzled the amount in question. It has

 further submits that since identically situated co-accused namely Mohinder

 Lal and Kanwaljit Singh @ Kawaljit Singh have already been granted bail by

 this Court, the petitioners deserve the same concession on grounds of parity. 4. Opposing the petition, learned State counsel has submitted that the petitioners

 were very much part & parcel of the entire scam and that they were signatory

 to several resolutions which had been passed authorizing Inderjit Singh to

 withdraw the payments, which would clearly show the complicity of the

 petitioners. Learned State counsel has, however, informed that the petitioners

 as on date have been behind bars since the last more than 5 months and that

 they are not involved in any other case. It has also been informed that charges

 have been framed, but none out of cited 40 PWs has been examined so far. 5. This Court has considered the rival submissions addressed before this Court 6. The petitioners are specifically named in the FIR and during investigation,

 they are also prima facie found to be involved in the scam. However, this

 Court finds that the petitioners have been behind bars for a substantial period

 of more than 5 months. Though charges have been framed, but none out of

 cited 40 PWs has been examined till date. Conclusion of trial is likely to

 consume time. In these circumstances and while also noticing that identically

 situated co-accused namely Mohinder Lal and Kanwaljit Singh @ Kawaljit

 Singh have already been granted bail, further detention of the petitioners, who PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.02.10 11:11 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document (4) CRM-M-5312-2023 (O&M); CRM-M-5319-2023 (O&M) &
 CRM-M-5656-2023 (O&M)

 otherwise have a clean record, will not serve any useful purpose. All the three

 petitions, as such, are accepted and the petitioners are ordered to be released

 on regular bail on their furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the satisfaction

 of learned trial Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned. 7. A copy of this order be placed on the file of each connected case.