1. This is an appeal filed by the Appellant/accused Meenu Arora,
 U/s 374 Cr.P.C ., who is the respondent/complainant before the
 Ld. Trial Court, for setting­aside the impugned judgment dated
 04.06.2022 and order on sentence dated 08.06.2022 (hereinafter
 referred to as impugned order) passed by the Court of Mr.

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.1 of 13 Shashank Nandan Bhatt, Ld. MM, NI Act, South West, Dwarka,
 New Delhi (hereinafter referred to as Ld. Trial Court) in C.C No.
 8046/2022, titled as 'Renu Ahuja vs. Meenu Arora ', U/s 138 NI
 Act , whereby the Ld. Trial Court has convicted the
 Appellant/accused for offence u/s 138 NI Act. 2. Being aggrieved by the impugned orders, the Appellant/accused
 has moved the present appeal on the following grounds : (ii) Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that the
 respondent/complainant in her complaint stated that the
 Appellant/accused has taken loan of Rs. 6,30,000/­ on
 different dates, between March 2013 to September 2013
 and the same has been acknowledged by the
 Appellant/accused on 23.06.2014, 09.07.2014 and
 18.09.2013, but in the cross examination dated
 16.05.2019, the respondent/complainant admitted that the

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.2 of 13 accused demanded the loan in 2009. It is further stated
 that the respondent/complainant further deposed that she
 cannot tell the exact date of loan but, the same was given
 on many occasions and further admitted that she does not
 remember on how many occasions, she advanced the loan.
 She further deposed that she does not remember the month
 and year of said loan and have also not executed any
 receipt or document in this regard. Thus, it is not possible
 that the loan was demanded by the accused in the year
 2009, same was advanced in the year 2013 and
 acknowledged in the year 2014. (iii) In her complaint, respondent/complainant has mentioned
 that the Appellant/accused issued one cheque bearing no.
 781947 dated 28.10.2015, drawn on Punjab National
 Bank, Tilak Nagar, New Delhi­110018, against the loan
 amount of Rs. 6,30,000/­. Further, during the course of her
 cross­examination, respondent/complainant admitted that
 she is house wife as well as giving tuitions and she used to
 earn Rs.20,000 to Rs 22,000 from tuitions. She further
 deposed that she used to file ITRs and had not shown the
 loan of her sister in her ITRs. She further deposed that
 she does not remember as to on how many occasions, she
 advanced the loan and the said loan was not withdrawn
 from her bank account and was given from her savings.
 She further admitted that the present complaint is for Rs. 5
 Lacs and in her complaint as well as in legal demand

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.3 of 13 notice, she mentioned the cheque amount of Rs.
 6,30,000/­. She further admitted that the details of cheque
 were filled by her. Therefore, it is averred that the said
 deposition raises doubt on the case put forth by
 respondent/complainant as to a person, who is earning Rs
 20,000/­ ­ Rs 22,000 per month and having family and
 personal expenses can advance such a huge loan in cash
 and a person who used to file ITR did not show the said
 amount in her ITR and the same highlights that the
 respondent/complainant cooked up a false story. (iv) Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that the
 respondent/complainant has nowhere mentioned about the
 agreement i.e. (Ex CW 1/1) in her complaint or in Legal
 notice but, admitted in her cross examination that
 document Ex. CW1/1 is executed at her residence and her
 husband purchased the stamp paper for the same. She
 further admitted that at the time of execution of said
 document, she was accompanied by her husband and the
 appellant/accused. She admitted that contents of Ex. CW1/1 were dictated by her husband to the
 appellant/accused and that the said document was
 executed in the year 2014 but, she does not remember the
 dates. It is further contended that the
 respondent/complainant deposed that she does not
 remember the date, when she received the disputed cheque
 from the appellant/accused but, the said cheque was

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.4 of 13 received at the time of execution of document Ex CW1/1.
 Thus, it is averred that the said deposition shows that the
 said document is false and fabricated and the
 Appellant/accused had not taken any loan from the
 respondent/complainant (v) Ld. Trial Court has failed to appreciate the fact that the
 agreement (Ex CW1/1) is executed on different dates,
 without any witness, not having clear title and not attested
 or executed. It is further contended that Ld. Trial Court
 has failed to appreciate the fact that the stamp paper of Rs.
 10 for affidavit purpose was also purchased by the
 husband of the respondent/complainant, who was also not
 been examined as witness. It is further contended that the
 said document is running in two pages, having different
 dates and year and in the said document, even name of
 respondent/complainant is not mentioned and it is
 addressed to the husband of respondent/complainant and
 same clearly shows personal communication between
 accused/ appellant and husband of respondent/
 complainant. (vi) The Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that the
 respondent/complainant has mentioned in her complaint
 that the appellant/accused has not replied to the Legal
 notice sent by the respondent/complainant but, the fact is
 that the Appellant/accused duly replied to the legal notice
 sent by the complainant/respondent. Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.5 of 13 (vii) The Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that the
 respondent/complainant has filed the wrong affidavit with
 her complaint of a person namely Tulsi Ram and in list of
 documents also mentioned her statement of account but,
 no such statement of account is filed by the
 respondent/complainant. (viii) Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that the

 respondent/complainant has not filed any document
 regarding the advancement of loan amount and not
 mentioned clear dates of advancement of loan, which is all
 in cash and failure to disclose the amount in the ITR is
 also violation of Income tax rules. (ix) The Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that the
 respondent/complainant has not filed any evidence with
 regard of loan, which clearly shows that the
 respondent/complainant has made totally false and
 concocted story. (x) In the conviction order dated 08.06.2022 also, there is
 error and defect as the name of convict in para no.1 is
 mentioned as Bansi Lal, instead of Appellant/accused and
 also on every page title is showing Dharampal Vs Bansilal
 CC No. 3068/19 which is not related to the present case. 3. Without filing any reply, Ld. Counsel for
respondent/complainant herein has refuted all the allegations raised
by Ld. Counsel for the Appellant/accused herein. It is further

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.6 of 13 submitted that the Ld. Trial Court has rightly passed the impugned
judgment. 4. I have given thoughtful consideration to the arguments
advanced on behalf of Ld. Counsel for the Appellant/accused and Ld.
Counsel for the respondent/complainant. 5. Ld. Counsel for Appellant/accused has raised the objection
that the respondent/complainant has concealed material fact, as the
Appellant/accused and respondent/complainant are real sisters yet, in
her complaint, the respondent/complainant mentioned that they are
known to each other since long, therefore, the same raises doubt on
the version of the complainant/respondent but, the same cannot be
said to be a material averment, which will raise doubt, as to the
statutory presumption, regarding existence of legally enforceable
liability and cannot be said to be an admission, that will raise doubt
on the credibility of witness. 6. The next ground raised by the Appellant/accused in present
appeal is that the Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the fact that as
per her complaint, the respondent/complainant averred that
Appellant/accused had taken loan of Rs. 6,30,000/­ on different dates
in between March 2013 to September 2013 and same have been
acknowledged by Appellant/accused on 23.06.2014, 09.07.2014 and
18.09.2013 but, in her cross­examination, the respondent/
complainant admitted that the accused demanded loan in the year

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.7 of 13 2009. So, it is not possible that loan which has been demanded in the
year 2009, advanced in the year 2013 and acknowledged in the year
2014. 7. To this averment, this Court is of the opinion that perusal of
the contents of Ex. CW1/1 prima facie reveals that the
Appellant/accused was in dire need of money and even tried to
commit suicide on various occasions and respondent/complainant
being her real sister advanced her money from time to time,
considering her requirement. Thus, demand of loan by accused in the
year 2009 and its advancement by respondent/complainant in the year
2013, does not creates any doubt, on the case put forth by the
respondent/complainant. Further, though the Appellant/accused raised
the defence that Ex. CW1/1 was got written from her under coercion
however, the Appellant/accused failed to elicit any admission of CW1
to prove the same and has also not led any positive evidence in
defence to prove that Ex. CW1/1 was executed under coercion. 8. Third ground of appeal as raised by Appellant/accused is that
the respondent/complainant failed to prove her source of income in
advancing loan of Rs. 6,30,000/­ to the Appellant/accused, as during
the course of her cross­examination, the respondent/CW1 admitted
that she used to earn Rs. 20,000/­ to 22000/­ from tuitions and has not
shown the loan amount in her ITRs. She further admitted that she has
not withdrawn the amount from her bank account and loan amount
has been given by her from savings. Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.8 of 13 9. To this argument/defence, it is worthwhile to mention here
that as per the case of the respondent/complainant, she has not
tendered the amount to the Appellant/accused at one time and has
tendered the same from March 2013 to September 2013 and the same
was acknowledged by the Appellant/accused, as evident from Ex.
CW1/1. 10. Though, the Appellant/accused disputed the said document
stating that the said document Ex. CW1/1 is false and fabricated
however, the Appellant/accused has failed to prove the said defence.
During the course of cross­examination of CW1, the Appellant/
accused has raised the defence that the said acknowledgement was
written by the Appellant/accused on dictation of the husband of
respondent/complainant, which CW1 admitted. However, the same
does not prove that the said document is false and fabricated. No
question was put to CW1, as to why the Appellant/accused was
forced by the husband of CW1/respondent/complainant to
acknowledge a debt, which the Appellant/accused does not owe. 11. Perusal of the application of the Appellant/accused under section 145 (2) of NI Act, shows that the Appellant/accused has
raised the defence that the husband of the respondent/complainant
was blackmailing her, as he was having her nude photographs and
videos, as he had raped her and because of alleged blackmailing, she
was coerced to write Ex.CW1/1 but, no such question or suggestion

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.9 of 13 was put to the respondent/CW1. Further, the Appellant/accused
failed to lead any evidence in defence to prove that Ex. CW1/1 was
got executed from her under coercion. In her statement under section
313 Cr.P.C., the appellant/accused has not stated anything about Ex.
CW1/1. Per contra, the respondent/complainant during the course of
her evidence exhibited reply to legal notice sent by Appellant/accused
to respondent/complainant which is Ex. CW1/8, wherein she raised
the defence that her six cheques including impugned cheque was
taken out by her landlord, from her tenanted premises, as her premise
has caught fire and same was misappropriated by him. Thus, the
defence raised by Appellant/accused in reply to legal notice Ex.
PW1/8 and in present case are contrary. 12. The Appellant/accused has further raised the objection that by
not showing the alleged loan amount in her ITR by the
respondent/complainant is a material fact and since in her cross
examination, the respondent/complainant admitted that she had not
shown the loan amount in her ITR, therefore, the same disputes the
factum of existence of legally enforceable liability. To this
contention, this court is of the considered opinion that merely because
the said alleged loan amount was not mentioned in the ITR, the same
is not sufficient to dispute the factum of existence of legally
enforceable liability, when the complainant was able to prove the
same by other means i.e. by proving Ex. CW1/1 i.e. the handwritten
acknowledgement of the Appellant/ accused. Contents of Ex. CW1/1
prima facie reveals that the Appellant/accused admitted that the

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.10 of 13 respondent/complainant has tendered her the loan amount, on various
occasions, so that the Appellant/accused would be able to repay her
loan liability, which she has taken from some other person at interest
of 10%. She also admitted handing over of the cheque in question to
the respondent/complainant. Thus, the objection as raised by the
Appellant/accused is without any basis. 13. The next ground raised by the Appellant/accused is that Ld.
Trial Court has failed to appreciate the fact that in her complaint, the
respondent/complainant has mentioned that the Appellant/accused has
not replied to the legal notice but, the Appellant/accused duly replied
to the said notice. The said contention is also of no assistance to the
Appellant/accused, as the respondent/complainant along with her
complaint, has placed on record the copy of reply of the
Appellant/accused and has also tendered the said reply in her
evidence as CW1/8, therefore it cannot be said that there is
concealment of the said fact by the respondent/complainant. 14. The next ground raised by the Appellant/accused is that
respondent/complainant along with the complaint, has filed a wrong
affidavit in the name of the person Tulsi Ram. However, perusal of
the TCR prima facie reveals that though the name of Tulsi Ram has
been mentioned in the affidavit but, the same appears to be a
typographical error, as the affidavit was signed by the
respondent/complainant and further, as the respondent/complainant

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.11 of 13 entered into the witness box to prove the contents of her complaint
therefore, the same does not vitiate the trial. 15. The Appellant/accused has further raised the contention that
the respondent/complainant has mentioned that the Appellant/accused
has taken loan of Rs. 6,30,000/ however, the impugned cheque in
only for an amount of Rs 5 lacs and the variation in the two amount
casts doubt on the case put forth by the respondent/complainant. In
the opinion of this court, since both the parties are related to each
other being real sisters and as evident from the contents of Ex.
CW1/1, the reason for tendering of loan by the
respondent/complainant, to the Appellant/accused was due to
financial constraints of the Appellant/accused, therefore, it is not
beyond human conduct that the respondent/complainant have waived
some amount out of the loan amount. Thus, merely because the
respondent/complainant has claimed a lesser amount, the same does
not cast doubt on the case put forth by the respondent/complainant
and the same was rightly decided by Ld. Trial Court. 16. The Appellant/accused has raised the contention that at the
time of passing of order on sentence, Ld. Trial Court has mentioned
the name of the convict as Bansi Lal instead of Appellant/accused and
on every page in the title, it is showing as Dharmpal vs. Bansi Lal.
However, perusal of the record reveals that in the title of the case, the
title mentioned as Renu Ahuja vs. Meenu Arora CC No. 8046/16 and
the amount of cheque has been also rightly mentioned, therefore,

Meenu Arora vs. Renu Ahuja CA No. 221/22 Page No.12 of 13 mention of name of Appellant as Bansi Lal in the first para and
description of the title in footer appears to be a typographical mistake
and the same can be corrected by moving an application, seeking
necessary correction before the concerned Court but, the same does
not give any benefit to the convict. Therefore, objection as raised by
the Appellant/accused that the conviction order has not been passed
against him, is without any basis. 17. Thus, this Court does not find any illegality, infirmity or
perversity in the impugned judgment dated 04.06.2022 and order of
sentence 08.06.2022 of the Ld. Trial Court and the same is
accordingly upheld. 18. Accordingly, present appeal filed by the Appellant/accused is
hereby dismissed being without any merits. 19. A copy of this judgment be sent to the Ld. Trial Court
alongwith the TCR. 20. Appeal file be consigned to Record Room after due
compliance.