(1)	I drop the demand of ₹9,08,15,881/- proposed under the provision of Section 74(1) of the CGST Act, 2017 read with Section 20 of the IGST Act, 2017 against M/s Patanjali Ayurved Ltd, Uttarakhand." Contentions of The Petitioner 3.	Mr. Arvind Datar, Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner has made the following submissions: 4.	Mr. N. Venkatraman, learned Additional Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf of department has made the following submissions: Explanation 1(i) makes it clear that the expression "all proceedings in respect of the said notice" shall not include proceedings under Section 132 of the CGST Act for the only reason that Section 132 is criminal in nature and deals with punishment for offences. If the legislative intent to Section 122 was also envisioned to be criminal, then Explanation 1(i) would have also contained Section 122 and the same would also have been benchmarked along with Section 132 in the said provision. i.	Explanation 1(i) to Section 74 deems closure of all proceedings against all persons liable to penalty under Section 122 and Section 125 , if the proceedings against the main person stands concluded under Section 73 or 74 of the CGST Act . Herein, Section 122 has been benchmarked with Section 125 and not with Section 132 , and Section 125 deals with general penalty, which may extend to twenty five thousand rupees. The legislative intent of Section 122 is evident one more time that it is merely a penalty in the nature of civil liability and not a criminal offence as contended by the petitioner. Since, Sections 122 and 125 deal with penalty, the same have been equated together. It is well settled principle of law that closure of civil proceedings/civil liability does not result in automatic closure of criminal proceedings and this intention is reflected one more time vide Explanation 1 to Section 74 wherein it clearly conveys that the purpose of Section 122 is only a penalty in the nature of civil liability. Furthermore, in relation to explanation 1 to Section 74 of the CGST Act it is submitted that these provisions shall apply in the situations where main persons to whom demand was made under the provisions of Section 74 of the CGST Act have deposited due tax along with applicable interest and penalty, and the proceedings against the main person have been concluded. j.	With regard to the argument of the petitioner that there is no reference to "proper officer" under Section 122 of the CGST Act and it is therefore indicative of the fact that the provision is only criminal in nature and that in terms of Section 74 , the proper officer is entitled to issue show-cause notice both for non-payment of taxes and also for wrong availment of input tax credit and its utilization, therefore the safeguard being available under Section 74 , a penalty under Section 122 as a civil liability is misconceived and should therefore be held to be only criminal in nature. Counsel on behalf of respondent has rebutted the assumption of the petitioner as both factually and legally incorrect and which was demonstrated by an illustration: The other persons besides the main person in the transactions would not be governed by any proceedings under Section 74 but once proceedings are initiated under Section 74 , the rest of the proceedings under Section 122 would arise as connected or consequential proceedings and therefore there was no need to refer to a 'proper officer' under Section 122 . It is equally for the same reason that Explanation 1(ii) gives a deemed closure to the proceedings under Section 122 , if proceedings under Section 73 and 74 gets concluded against the main person. k.	Furthermore, the aforesaid contention of the petitioner that since there is no reference to a proper officer in Section 122 , the same should be construed as criminal in nature should also fail for the following reasons: l.	To buttress his arguments, counsel has placed reliance on the following cases: Issues 5.	Considering the contentions canvassed by both the sides, the following issues arise for consideration before this Court, which are as follows: Relevant Provisions 6.	Before we assess the rival submissions canvassed by both the parties, it becomes necessary at the outset to refer to the relevant provisions of the CGST Act . They are delineated below: Section 74 :	Determination of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud or any wilful-misstatement or suppression of facts. (1) Where it appears to the proper officer that any tax has not been paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or where input tax credit has been wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud, or any wilful-misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, he shall serve notice on the person chargeable with tax which has not been so paid or which has been so short paid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, or who has wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit, requiring him to show cause as to why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice along with interest payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to the tax specified in the notice. (2) The proper officer shall issue the notice under sub-section (1) at least six months prior to the time limit specified in sub-section (10) for issuance of order. (3) Where a notice has been issued for any period under sub-section (1), the proper officer may serve a statement, containing the details of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised for such periods other than those covered under sub-section (1), on the person chargeable with tax. (4) The service of statement under sub-section (3) shall be deemed to be service of notice under sub-section (1) of section 73 , subject to the condition that the grounds relied upon in the said statement, except the ground of fraud, or any wilful-misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, for periods other than those covered under sub-section (1) are the same as are mentioned in the earlier notice. (5) The person chargeable with tax may, before service of notice under sub-section (1), pay the amount of tax along with interest payable under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to fifteen per cent. of such tax on the basis of his own ascertainment of such tax or the tax as ascertained by the proper officer and inform the proper officer in writing of such payment. (6) The proper officer, on receipt of such information, shall not serve any notice under sub-section (1), in respect of the tax so paid or any penalty payable under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder. (7) Where the proper officer is of the opinion that the amount paid under sub-section (5) falls short of the amount actually payable, he shall proceed to issue the notice as provided for in sub-section (1) in respect of such amount which falls short of the amount actually payable. (8) Where any person chargeable with tax under sub-section (1) pays the said tax along with interest payable under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to twenty-five per cent. of such tax within thirty days of issue of the notice, all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be concluded. (9) The proper officer shall, after considering the representation, if any, made by the person chargeable with tax, determine the amount of tax, interest and penalty due from such person and issue an order. (10) The proper officer shall issue the order under sub-section (9) within a period of five years from the due date for furnishing of annual return for the financial year to which the tax not paid or short paid or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised relates to or within five years from the date of erroneous refund. (11) Where any person served with an order issued under sub-section (9) pays the tax along with interest payable thereon under section 50 and a penalty equivalent to fifty per cent. of such tax within thirty days of communication of the order, all proceedings in respect of the said notice shall be deemed to be concluded. Explanation 1.--For the purposes of section 73 and this section,-- (i) the expression "all proceedings in respect of the said notice" shall not include proceedings under section 132 ; (ii) where the notice under the same proceedings is issued to the main person liable to pay tax and some other persons, and such proceedings against the main person have been concluded under section 73 or section 74 , the proceedings against all the persons liable to pay penalty under sections 122 and 125 are deemed to be concluded. Explanation 2.--For the purposes of this Act, the expression "suppression" shall mean non-declaration of facts or information which a taxable person is required to declare in the return, statement, report or any other document furnished under this Act or the rules made thereunder, or failure to furnish any information on being asked for, in writing, by the proper officer." Section 83 . Provisional attachment to protect revenue in certain cases.-- (1) Where, after the initiation of any proceeding under Chapter XII, Chapter XIV or Chapter XV, the Commissioner is of the opinion that for the purpose of protecting the interest of the Government revenue it is necessary so to do, he may, by order in writing, attach provisionally, any property, including bank account, belonging to the taxable person or any person specified in sub-section (1A) of section 122 , in such manner as may be prescribed." (2) Every such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect after the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the order made under sub-section (1). Section 122 : Penalty for certain offences.--(1) Where a taxable person who-- (i) supplies any goods or services or both without issue of any invoice or issues an incorrect or false invoice with regard to any such supply; (ii) issues any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services or both in violation of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; (iii) collects any amount as tax but fails to pay the same to the Government beyond a period of three months from the date on which such payment becomes due; (iv) collects any tax in contravention of the provisions of this Act but fails to pay the same to the Government beyond a period of three months from the date on which such payment becomes due; (v) fails to deduct the tax in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 51 , or deducts an amount which is less than the amount required to be deducted under the said sub-section, or where he fails to pay to the Government under sub-section (2) thereof, the amount deducted as tax; (vi) fails to collect tax in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 52 , or collects an amount which is less than the amount required to be collected under the said sub-section or where he fails to pay to the Government the amount collected as tax under sub-section (3) of section 52 ; (vii) takes or utilises input tax credit without actual receipt of goods or services or both either fully or partially, in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; (viii) fraudulently obtains refund of tax under this Act; (ix) takes or distributes input tax credit in contravention of section 20 , or the rules made thereunder; (x) falsifies or substitutes financial records or produces fake accounts or documents or furnishes any false information or return with an intention to evade payment of tax due under this Act; (xi) is liable to be registered under this Act but fails to obtain registration; (xii) furnishes any false information with regard to registration particulars, either at the time of applying for registration, or subsequently; (xiii) obstructs or prevents any officer in discharge of his duties under this Act; (xiv) transports any taxable goods without the cover of documents as may be specified in this behalf; (xv) suppresses his turnover leading to evasion of tax under this Act; (xvi) fails to keep, maintain or retain books of account and other documents in accordance with the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; (xvii) fails to furnish information or documents called for by an officer in accordance with the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or furnishes false information or documents during any proceedings under this Act; (xviii) supplies, transports or stores any goods which he has reasons to believe are liable to confiscation under this Act; (xix) issues any invoice or document by using the registration number of another registered person; (xx) tampers with, or destroys any material evidence or document; (xxi) disposes of or tampers with any goods that have been detained, seized, or attached under this Act,
 
shall be liable to pay a penalty of ten thousand rupees or an amount equivalent to the tax evaded or the tax not deducted under section 51 or short deducted or deducted but not paid to the Government or tax not collected under section 52 or short collected or collected but not paid to the Government or input tax credit availed of or passed on or distributed irregularly, or the refund claimed fraudulently, whichever is higher. (1A) Any person who retains the benefit of a transaction covered under clauses (i), (ii), (vii) or clause (ix) of sub-section (1) and at whose instance such transaction is conducted, shall be liable to a penalty of an amount equivalent to the tax evaded or input tax credit availed of or passed on. (2) Any registered person who supplies any goods or services or both on which any tax has not been paid or short-paid or erroneously refunded, or where the input tax credit has been wrongly availed or utilised,-- (a) for any reason, other than the reason of fraud or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, shall be liable to a penalty of ten thousand rupees or ten per cent. of the tax due from such person, whichever is higher; (b) for reason of fraud or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts to evade tax, shall be liable to a penalty equal to ten thousand rupees or the tax due from such person, whichever is higher. (3) Any person who-- (a) aids or abets any of the offences specified in clauses (i) to (xxi) of sub-section (1); (b) acquires possession of, or in any way concerns himself in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing or in any other manner deals with any goods which he knows or has reasons to believe are liable to confiscation under this Act or the rules made thereunder; (c) receives or is in any way concerned with the supply of, or in any other manner deals with any supply of services which he knows or has reasons to believe are in contravention of any provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; (d) fails to appear before the officer of central tax, when issued with a summons for appearance to give evidence or produce a document in an inquiry; (e) fails to issue invoice in accordance with the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder or fails to account for an invoice in his books of account,
 
shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees. (1B) Any electronic commerce operator who-- (i) allows a supply of goods or services or both through it by an unregistered person other than a person exempted from registration by a notification issued under this Act to make such supply; (ii) allows an inter-State supply of goods or services or both through it by a person who is not eligible to make such inter-State supply; or (iii) fails to furnish the correct details in the statement to be furnished under sub-section (4) of section 52 of any outward supply of goods effected through it by a person exempted from obtaining registration under this Act,
 
shall be liable to pay a penalty of ten thousand rupees, or an amount equivalent to the amount of tax involved had such supply been made by a registered person other than a person paying tax under section 10 , whichever is higher." Section 124 : Fine for failure to furnish statistics--If any person required to furnish any information or return under section 151 ,-- (a) without reasonable cause fails to furnish such information or return as may be required under that section, or (b) wilfully furnishes or causes to furnish any information or return which he knows to be false,
 
he shall be punishable with a fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees and in case of a continuing offence to a further fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for each day after the first day during which the offence continues subject to a maximum limit of twenty-five thousand rupees." Section 125 . General penalty--Any person, who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any rules made thereunder for which no penalty is separately provided for in this Act, shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to twenty-five thousand rupees. Section 128 : Power to waive penalty or fee or both.--The Government may, by notification, waive in part or full, any penalty referred to in section 122 or section 123 or section 125 or any late fee referred to in section 47 for such class of taxpayers and under such mitigating circumstances as may be specified therein on the recommendations of the Council. Section 131 : Confiscation or penalty not to interfere with other punishments.--- Without prejudice to the provisions contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), no confiscation made or penalty imposed under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall prevent the infliction of any other punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under the provisions of this Act or under any other law for the time being in force. Section 132 : Punishment for certain offences.--(1) Whoever commits, or causes to commit and retain the benefits arising out of, any of the following offences, namely:-- * * * * * (h) acquires possession of, or in any way concerns himself in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing or in any other manner deals with, any goods which he knows or has reasons to believe are liable to confiscation under this Act or the rules made thereunder; (i) receives or is in any way concerned with the supply of, or in any other manner deals with any supply of services which he knows or has reasons to believe are in contravention of any provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; * * * * * (l) attempts to commit, or abets the commission of any of the offences mentioned in clauses (a) to (f) and clauses (h) and (i) of this section, shall be punishable-- (i) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine; (ii) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds two hundred lakh rupees but does not exceed five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine; (iii) in the case of an offence specified in clause (b) where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds one hundred lakh rupees but does not exceed two hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and with fine; (iv) in cases where he commits or abets the commission of an offence specified in clause (f), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or with both. (2) Where any person convicted of an offence under this section is again convicted of an offence under this section, then, he shall be punishable for the second and for every subsequent offence with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine. (3) The imprisonment referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) shall, in the absence of special and adequate reasons to the contrary to be recorded in the judgment of the Court, be for a term not less than six months. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 (2 of 1974), all offences under this Act, except the offences referred to in sub-section (5) shall be non-cognizable and bailable. (5) The offences specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (1) and punishable under clause (i) of that sub-section shall be cognizable and non-bailable. (6) A person shall not be prosecuted for any offence under this section except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section, the term "tax" shall include the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or refund wrongly taken under the provisions of this Act, the State Goods and Services Tax Act, the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act or the Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Act and cess levied under the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act . Section 134 : Cognizance of offences.--No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act or the rules made thereunder except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner, and no court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the First Class, shall try any such offence. Section 138 . Compounding of offences.--(1) Any offence under this Act may, either before or after the institution of prosecution, be compounded by the Commissioner on payment, by the person accused of the offence, to the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, of such compounding amount in such manner as may be prescribed: Rule 142 of the CGST Rules. Notice and order for demand of amounts payable under the Act. -(1) The proper officer shall serve, along with the (a) Notice issued under section 52 or section 73 or section 74 or section 74A or section 76 or section 122 or section 123 or section 124 or section 125 or section 127 or section 129 or section 130 , a summary thereof electronically in FORM GST DRC-01,
 
***
 
(5) A summary of the order issued under section 52 or section 62 or section 63 or section 64 or section 73 or section 74 or section 74A or section 75 or section 76 or section 122 or section 123 or section 124 or section 125 or section 127 or section 129 or section 130 shall be uploaded electronically in FORM GST DRC-07, specifying therein the amount of tax, interest and penalty, as the case may be, payable by the person concerned." Analysis 7.	We have considered the rival submissions and have perused the materials placed on record. Mr. Arvind Datar, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of petitioner has addressed his arguments meticulously before us and Mr. Venkataraman, learned ASGI has vehemently debunked the arguments placed by the counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner. 8.	The arguments canvassed by the learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner is mainly based on two pillars. Firstly, he submits that levy of penalty under Section 122 of the CGST Act attracts criminal liability and does not impose civil liability. To buttress his arguments he has pointed out various indicia to depict the same and secondly, he submits that proceedings under Section 122 cannot uphold its integrity subsequent to dropping of proceedings against the same person, that is, the petitioner under Section 74 of the CGST Act in view of Explanation 1(ii) to Section 74 . 9.	Per contra, the learned ASGI appearing on behalf of the respondents confutes the aforesaid arguments of the petitioner mainly on two-fold points. Firstly, Section 122 of the CGST Act attracts civil liability and not criminal as penalty in taxation matters subsumes civil liability. Furthermore, penalty provision prescribed under Section 122(1) is for offences committed by a taxable person and is different from penalty prescribed under the head 'Chapter XV: Demand and Recovery' that includes Sections 73 / 74 . Issuance of tax invoice without actual supply of goods and utilisation of input tax credit without actual receipt of goods are different acts of omission and commission and hence penalty provisions under Section 122(1) of the CGST Act would be attracted. Secondly, with regard to abatement of proceedings under Section 122 in view of the explanation (1)(ii) to Section 74 , it is submitted that a taxable person is liable for penalty under Section 122(1) , if it violates the provisions of the CGST Act . Merely because no tax is demanded subsequent to dropping of proceedings under Section 74 by the department, it cannot exonerate the taxable person from the penalty for the wrongs committed by it under any of the sub-sections in Section 122(1) , and therefore, Section 122(1) can very well be imposed. Meaning of 'Offence' and 'Penalty' 10.	For the purpose of understanding, it is necessary to first deal with regard to the meaning of the words 'offence' and 'penalty' as used in Section 122 of the CGST Act. The myriad definitions of the words 'offence' and 'penalty' as given in Black's law dictionary, P Ramanatha Aiyar's, The Law Lexicon are quoted herein below: (ii)	The word 'Offence' as has been defined in P Ramanatha Aiyar's 'The Law Lexicon' (4th Edition, page 1316) is quoted in verbatim as: ***
 
"Offence: Crime. The word "offence" is another name for crime. Crimes in the broad sense include not only the major crime (indictable offences) but also summary offences. The Latter regulate many trades and special activities (the so-called "regulatory offences"), as well as the conduct of ordinary people in their daily life." Definition of 'Penalty' (iii)	The word 'Penalty' as has been defined in Black's Law Dictionary (9th Edition, page 1247) is quoted in verbatim herein below: (iv)	The word 'Penalty' as has been defined in P Ramanatha Aiyar's, 'The Law Lexicon' (4th Edition, page 1404) is quoted in verbatim as herein below: ***
 
"A punishment imposed for any breach of law, rule or contract a sum named in a bond as the amount to be forfeited by the obligor in case he does not comply with the conditions of the bond; money recoverable by virtue of a penal statute; a sum agreed to be paid on breach of an agreement or some stipulation in it." ***
 
"The expression 'penalty' is a word of wide significance. Sometimes, it means recovery of an amount as a penal measure even in civil proceedings. An exaction which is not compensatory in character is also termed as a penalty. When penalty is imposed by an adjudicating officer, it is done so in 'adjudicatory proceedings' and not by way of fine as a result of prosecution of an accused for commission of an offence in a criminal Court. Director of Enforcement v. M/s MCTM Corpn. Pvt. Ltd., AIR 1996 SC 1100,1104, [ Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (7 of 1947), S. 23(1)(a) ]" ***
 
"Penalty and punishment. 'Penalty is synonymous with 'punishment, in connection with crimes and is fixed by the law defining the criminal act." (v)	The word 'Penalty' as has been defined in P Ramanatha Aiyar's, 'The Law Lexicon' ( 6th Edition, Volume 3, page 4112- 4114) is quoted in verbatim as herein below: ***
 
"Penalty' ordinarily becomes payable when it is found that an assesse has wilfully violated any of the provisions of the taxing statute. [ Associated Cement Co Ltd. v Commercial Tax Officer , (1981) 4 SCC 578, 600, para 23]" ***
 
"Creating circumstances for compelling the assesse to discharge his statutory obligation cannot be termed to be a 'penalty'. The collection of tax being an act of the State for providing protection, security and other amenities to the society, cannot, in all circumstances, be termed to be a 'penalty' or 'punishment [ S. Reddappa v UOI , (1998) 232 ITR 62 (Kar.)]" ***
 
""Penalty" is a slippery word and it has to be understood in the context in which it is used in a given statute. A penalty may be the subject-matter of a breach of statutory duty or it may be the subject-matter of a complaint. In ordinary parlance, the proceedings may cover penalties for avoidance of civil liabilities which do not constitute offences against the State. This distinction is responsible for any enactment intended to protect public revenue. Thus, all penalties do not flow from an offence as is commonly understood but all offences lead to a penalty. Whereas the former is a penalty which flows from a disregard of statutory provisions, the latter is entailed where there is mens rea and is made the subject-matter of adjudication. Penalty under Section 10(3) of the Act is compensatory. It is levied for breach of a statutory duty for non-payment of tax under the Act. [ State of UP v Sukhpal Singh Bal , (2005) 7 SCC 615, 622, para 15] [UP Motor Vehicles Taxation Act (21 of 1997), section 10(3) ]" 11.	The Supreme Court judgment in Standard Chartered Bank (supra) relied upon by the petitioner has defined 'offences' which is quoted verbatim as follows: According to Jowitts Dictionary of English Law, Vol. 2, (2nd Edn. by John Burke), punishment is the penalty for transgressing the law. It is significant to notice that Section 68 , both in sub-section (1) and in sub-section (2) uses the expression, shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. There does not appear to be any reason to confine the operation of Section 68 only to a prosecution and to exclude its operation from a penalty proceeding under Section 50 of the Act, since the essential ingredient of both is the contravention of the provisions of the Act. A company is liable to be proceeded against under both the provisions. Section 68 is only a provision indicating who all in addition can be proceeded against when the contravention is by a company or who all should or could be roped in, in a contravention by a company. Section 68 only clarifies the nature and mode of proceeding when the contravention of any of the provisions of the Act is by a company, whether it be by way of adjudication to impose a penalty or by way of prosecution leading to imprisonment and a fine. " 12.	The Supreme Court in Shiv Dutt Rai Fateh Chand (supra) relied upon by counsel appearing on behalf of both the parties has defined 'penalty' which is quoted verbatim as hereinbelow: (Emphasis added) 13.	The Supreme Court in State of U.P. v. Sukhpal Singh Bal reported in 7 SCC 615, 622 with regard to the term 'penalty' has held that penalty does not precede offences but offences precede penalty. The relevant paragraph of the judgment is quoted herein below: (Emphasis added) 14.	Upon a careful perusal of the multifarious definitions in the legal dictionaries and judgments noted herein above, one would come to the following conclusions: 15.	Principles enunciated above clearly indicate that the word 'offence' does not necessarily under all circumstances mean a crime that is required to be tried by the criminal court. A contravention of a rule/law wherein criminal proceedings are not initiated but only penalty is imposed for the purpose of deterrence would also amount to an offence. Similarly, 'penalty' is a slippery word and the same has to be understood in the context in which it is used in a given statute. In ordinary parlance, the proceedings may cover penalties for avoidance of civil liabilities which do not constitute offences against the State. However, there would be circumstances for certain offences, penalty may not be imposed and the same may be punishable by incarceration. Penalty may be imposed in cases where there is a simple violation of a law or for omission to do a particular act without there being any mens rea. On the other hand, penalty may also be imposed for serious contravention of the law with or without mens rea that may amount to an offence for the purpose of deterrence and punishment. A statute may provide for further punishment by prosecution for the same offence/contravention, if the legislature deems it necessary. Interpretation of Statutes 16.	Now, we will deal with the interpretation of the relevant provisions involved in the present case, specially Sections 74 and 122 of the CGST Act. Before interpreting a taxing statute, it is necessary to quote the observation of Justice Das in Nalinakhya Bysack v. Shyam Sundar Haldar reported in AIR 1953 SC 148 that in construing a statutory or constitutional provision, the Court should not presume that the legislature has either committed a mistake or has omitted something which was very necessary and there should be no presumption of mistake of the legislature. The relevant extract from the judgement is quoted herein below:- 17.	A taxing statute consists of three stages, firstly, charging provision to ascertain the subject upon whom tax is to be imposed; secondly, machinery provision for assessment or quantification of the tax, interest and penalty to be imposed and thirdly, provisions for recovery of tax, interest and penalty assessed in the previous stage. Lord Dunedin in Whitney v. Inland Revenue Commissioners reported in (1926) AC 37 in this regard has made the observations, which are quoted as under: 18. Section 74 of the CGST Act provides for determination of tax not paid or short paid or erroneously refunded or input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud or wilful mis-statement or suppression of facts to evade tax. Section 74 in its characterization is an anti-evasion provision in nature as it is aimed at curbing evasion of tax. This is a provision which in itself consists of two stages of taxing statute. It is a charging provision for the reason, it fixes the liability upon the person chargeable with tax. It is a machinery provision as it provides for determination/quantification of tax and penalty. Ergo, Section 74 at once is a charging and a machinery provision for the recovery of tax assessed and imposition of penalty. 19. Section 122 of the CGST Act provides for penalty on taxable persons for committing offences as mentioned in twenty-one sub clauses. It is aimed at discouraging tax payers from indulging in unlawful activities with regard to supplying goods without invoice, issuing fake invoices, non payment of tax to Government after collection, non deduction or non remittance of tax, claiming wrongful input tax credits, fraudulently obtaining tax refunds, inter alia. Ergo, Section 122 is a penal provision aimed at curbing evasion of taxes. 20.	For construing fiscal statutes, one must have regard to the letter of the law as the subject cannot be taxed by inference and analogy. Taxing statute aimed at exaction of any money should contain specific provisions for the same and there is no room for intendment. Nothing is to be read and nothing is to be implied and one should look fairly at the language used. It has to be construed strictly as it is. Rowlatt, J. in Cape Brandy Syndicate v. Commissioner of Inland Revenue reported in (1921) 2 KB 403 has observed as quoted herein: 21. In Film Exhibitors, Guild v. State of A.P. reported in AIR 1987 AP 110, with regard to the charging provision of a taxing statute, the Court held that it must be strictly interpreted and laid down following principles for interpretation of taxing statutes: (Emphasis added) 22.	The Supreme Court in CST v. Shri Krishna Engg. Co. reported in (2005) 2 SCC 692 further held as follows: A few years later another Constitution Bench in the case of CST v. Modi Sugar Mills Ltd. [(1961) 2 SCR 189 : AIR 1961 SC 1047] observed thus: (SCR p. 198)
 
"In interpreting a taxing statute, equitable considerations are entirely out of place. Nor can taxing statutes be interpreted on any presumptions or assumptions. The court must look squarely at the words of the statute and interpret them. It must interpret a taxing statute in the light of what is clearly expressed; it cannot imply anything which is not expressed; it cannot import provisions in the statutes so as to supply any assumed deficiency." (Emphasis added) 23.	The Supreme Court in State of Tamil Nadu v. M.K. Kandaswami reported in (1975) 4 SCC 745 has held as follows: (Emphasis added) 24.	The Court while interpreting a taxing statute in Sheffield City Council v. Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. reported in (1979) 2 All ER 91 held as under: 25.	The Supreme Court in Sanjeev Coke Mfg. Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. reported in 1983 (1) SCC 147, relied upon by the petitioner, has held that once the statute leaves the parliament, Court is the sole authority to interpret what the parliament intends through the language of the statute and other permissible aids. The relevant paragraph of the judgment is quoted herein below: (Emphasis added) 26.	Upon sifting through the various judgments quoted above, one may pen down the salient rules to be applied for interpretation of all statutes especially taxing statutes: 27. Section 74 is clearly a charging and machinery provision for determination/quantification of tax and penalty while Section 122 is a penal provision in discouraging the tax payers from indulging in unlawful activities of various kinds, and accordingly, is a penal provision for deterring evasion of taxes. 28.	Upon perusal of the various judgments and interpretation of statute, one may conclude that both Sections 74 and 122 being charging sections are required to be interpreted strictly and plain meaning to the word used therein should be provided by the courts. An absurd interpretation that makes the charging sections unworkable should be avoided. This does not mean that a person who is not liable to tax or to penalty should be roped into the charging provision simpliciter to curb evasion of taxes. However, the court is allowed to look at all the provision of the statute to bring about a harmonious construction and come to an interpretation which could make the statute workable. A word may have several meanings and the court may choose the meaning that could harmonise the entire statute instead of putting a meaning that would be contrary to the intention of the Legislature. At this stage, one is reminded of the famous quotation of Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., who aptly stated - a word is not a crystal, transparent and unchanged; it is the skin of a living thought and may vary greatly in colour and content according to the circumstances and time in which it is used. Penalty in Tax Delinquency Cases 29.	The Supreme Court in Shiv Dutt Rai Fateh Chand (supra) relied upon by both the parties while dealing with legal scrutiny of a retrospective amendment made to Section 9(2)(A) of the Central Sales Tax Act has held with regard to taxation matters in relation to penalty proceedings under the Income Tax Act that it attracts civil liability. The relevant paragraph of the judgment is quoted herein below: "30. On the other hand, a Full Bench of the High Court of Allahabad has held in Raghunandan Prasad Mohan Lal v. ITAT [AIR 1970 All 620 : (1970) 75 ITR 741 : (1970) 1 ITJ 195] that Article 20 of the Constitution contemplates proceedings in the nature of criminal proceedings and it does not apply to penalty proceedings under the Income Tax Act, 1961 which have a civil sanction and are revenue in nature. The High Court of Madhya Pradesh has held in Central India Motors v. Asst . CST [(1980) 46 STC 379 (MP).] that Article 20(1) is not attracted to the case of a levy of penalty made with retrospective effect under the Madhya Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1958. 31. After giving an anxious consideration to the points urged before us, we feel that the word 'penalty' used in Article 20(1) cannot be construed as including a 'penalty' levied under the sales tax laws by the departmental authorities for violation of statutory provisions. A penalty imposed by the Sales Tax Authorities is only a civil liability, though penal in character. It may be relevant to notice that sub-section (2-A) of Section 9 of the Act specifically refers to certain acts and omissions which are offences for which a criminal prosecution would lie and the provisions relating to offences have not been given retrospective effect by Section 9 of the Amending Act. The argument based on Article 20(1) of the Constitution is, therefore, rejected." (Emphasis added) 30. In Sukhpal Singh Bal (supra), the Supreme Court while pondering the vires of penalty imposed under Section 10(3) of the Uttar Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1997, in relation to the object behind imposing penalty in tax statutes has held that the penalty provision is enacted to protect public revenue and deter tax evasion while serving a compensatory role for breaches of statutory tax duties. The relevant paragraph of the judgment is quoted herein below: 19. In our view, the judgment of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Rahimbhai Karimbhai Nagriwala[(1974) 97 ITR 660 (Guj)] is squarely applicable to the present case. Deterrence is the main theme or object behind the imposition of penalty and, therefore, it is not possible to say that in the instant case the provision of Section 10(3) infringes Articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, as held in the impugned judgment. (Emphasis added) 31.	The Supreme Court in Gujarat Travancore Agency (supra), relied upon by both the parties while distinguishing between imposition of civil penalty under Section 271 (1)(a) and criminal penalty under Section 276-C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 has essentially held in relation to penalty in tax delinquency matters that such penalty is a civil liability being remedial and coercive in character and far distinct from the penalty imposed in criminal or penal laws. The Supreme Court has heavily relied on the definition of penalty as given in Corpus Juris Secundum. The relevant paragraph of the judgment is quoted herein below: (Emphasis added) 32.	The Supreme Court in M.C.T. M. Corpn. (P) Ltd. (supra) relied upon by both the parties has held that mens rea is an essential element in criminal law for prosecuting an accused whereas in civil matters such as taxation mens rea is irrelevant for imposing civil liability. The Court while dealing with civil liabilities imposed under Section 14B of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 has held that imposition of penalty does not require the traditional proof of mens rea, only the breach of statutory provision or blameworthy conduct of the recalcitrant tax payers is enough to trigger the penalty in such matters The relevant paragraphs of the judgment are quoted in verbatim herein below: 13. We are in agreement with the aforesaid view and in our opinion, what applies to "tax delinquency" equally holds good for the 'blameworthy' conduct for contravention of the provisions of FERA, 1947. We, therefore, hold that mens rea (as is understood in criminal law) is not an essential ingredient for holding a delinquent liable to pay penalty under Section 23(1)(a) of FERA, 1947 for contravention of the provisions of Section 10 of FERA, 1947 and that penalty is attracted under Section 23(1)(a) as soon as contravention of the statutory obligation contemplated by Section 10(1)(a) is established. The High Court apparently fell in error in treating the "blameworthy conduct" under the Act as equivalent to the commission of a "criminal offence", overlooking the position that the "blameworthy conduct" in the adjudicatory proceedings is established by proof only of the breach of a civil obligation under the Act, for which the defaulter is obliged to make amends by payment of the penalty imposed under Section 23(1)(a) of the Act irrespective of the fact whether he committed the breach with or without any guilty intention. Our answer to the first question formulated by us above is, therefore in the negative." (Emphasis added) 33.	The Supreme Court has affirmed the view taken by the Bombay High Court in Cabot International Capital Corporation (supra), in its various judgments. The Bombay High Court in the said judgment has laid down the canons of interpretation. The relevant paragraph of the said judgment is quoted as under: 34.	This Court in M/s Hindustan Herbal Cosmetics vs State Of U.P (Neutral Citation No. - 2024:AHC:209) has held that penalty in tax matters in some cases may require an element of mens rea. The relevant paragraph of the judgment is quoted hereinbelow: 35.	The Supreme Court in CST v. Satyam Shivam Papers (P) Ltd. reported in (2022) 14 SCC 157 has upheld the judgment of Telangana High Court wherein the Court has held in favour of assessee and underscored that authorities must not presume evasion of tax solely on procedural lapses such as expiry of an e-way bill, specially when valid reasons are provided. It is implied by the Court that penalty by the Assessing Officer under Section 129 of Telangana Goods and Services Tax cannot be imposed in absence of mens rea. The relevant paragraphs of the judgment are quoted herein below: 36.	In Veena Estate (P.) Limited v. Commissioner of Income Tax reported in [2024] 461 ITR 483 (Bombay), the Bombay High Court while dealing with the procedural defects in furnishing notice under Section 274 of Income Tax Act, 1961 has upheld the view of Tribunal in imposing penalty against assessee for concealment of his income due to presence of mens rea. 37. In Chemmancherry Estate Co. v. Income Tax Officer Ward VIII (2) reported in (2020) 268 Taxmann 29 (Madras), the Madras High Court has upheld the findings of Tribunal wherein the Tribunal has imposed penalty upon the assessee under Section 271(1)(c) for concealment of non-agricultural land and knowingly furnishing inaccurate particulars of income in return that the land sold was an agricultural land. The Court held that there was wilful concealment and penalty was appositely levied by the Tribunal under the said provision. 38.	Upon perusal of the various judgments which have dealt with penalty in tax delinquency cases, one may summarise the same as follows: g.	In relation to Section 129 of the CGST Act, this court in M/s Hindustan Herbal Cosmetics (supra) has held that the principle that emerges is that in certain cases the presence of mens rea for evasion of tax is a sine qua non for imposing of penalty. 39. Upon a perusal of the above principles, it is blatant that penalty may be imposed in cases where men rea is a requirement. It is the scheme of a particular statute that shall determine whether for imposition of penalty there is a requirement for men rea or not. However, when a taxing statute speaks of prosecution, for those offences mens rea or guilty intent is a sine qua non. As held in Cabot International Capital Corporation (supra), if from the scheme, objects and words used in the statute, it appears that the proceedings for imposition of penalty are adjudicatory in nature, in contradistinction to criminal and quasi-criminal proceedings, the determination is of the breach of civil obligation by the offender. The word penalty by itself will not be determinative to conclude the nature of proceedings being criminal or quasi-criminal. It is crystal clear that in a particular statute penalty may be imposed for certain contraventions that do not require mens rea and in the same statute penalty may be imposed for contraventions which are far more serious in nature wherein mens rea would be a desideratum. Dealing With The Submissions of The Petitioner 40.	Keeping in mind the principles that have been culled out in the previous section with regard to the meaning of the words 'offence' and 'penalty', the manner of interpretation of taxing statutes specifically imposition of penalty in taxing delinquency cases, I shall proceed to examine the umpteen contentions raised by the counsel appearing on behalf of petitioner. 41.	The crux of the argument of Mr. Arvind Datar on Issue (I) is that Section 122 of the CGST Act, 2017 specifically deals with 'offences' and therefore the same has to be read with Section 134 of the CGST Act. Hence, he argues that penalty for such offences would have to be imposed by the criminal courts and cannot be adjudicated by the proper officer. To support his arguments he submits that unless there is determination of tax under Section 73 and Section 74 of the CGST Act, no penal provision can be invoked under Section 122 of the CGST Act as there is a requirement for a predicate offence of tax evasion before any penal action can be taken under Section 122 . Upon a reading of Section 2(107) of the CGST Act, it is clear that a taxable person means a person who is registered or liable to be registered under Section 22 and Section 24 of the CGST Act. Upon perusal of Section 22 and Section 24 , it is clear that persons liable for registration would include persons who are exclusively in the supply of goods even if the same are exempted. Section 24 , in fact provides for compulsory registration in certain cases. Accordingly, since the petitioner is registered under the CGST Act , he would fall under the definition of taxable person as mentioned in the very opening sentence of Section 122 of the CGST Act. The argument that one would have to be first taxed under Sections 73 / 74 and only thereafter penalty can be imposed is fallacious in nature and is accordingly rejected. Under the present GST regime, persons who are not liable to pay tax under Sections 73 / 74 of the CGST Act may very well be liable for penalties as described in the twenty-one sub-sections of Section 122(1) and under sub- sections 122(2) and 122(3) . 42.	The second argument raised by Mr. Datar is that, Section 122 of the CGST Act falls under the Chapter XIX: 'Offences and Penalties' and the very heading of Section 122 reads 'Penalty for certain offences'. He argues that the definition of offences is not made available in the CGST Act and therefore has to be imported from either the General Clauses Act, 1897 or the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973. Upon a plain reading of Section 2(38) of the General Clauses Act, 1897, and Section 2(n) of CrPC it is clear that an offence is any act or omission made punishable by law for the time being in force. Punishment need not always be imposed by way of a criminal trial and it could very well be imposed by way of penalty. 43.	Moreover, Section 4(2) of CrPC states that all offences under any law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried, and otherwise dealt with, according to the provisions under the CrPC , if no separate provisions are envisaged in other laws. In the present case we find that for the offences enumerated under Section 122 of the CGST Act, punishment has been imposed in the form of penalty. Ergo, Section 4(2) of CrPC would not apply in the present case as a separate provision has been envisaged for the offences under Section 122 of the CGST Act by way of imposition of a penalty. Furthermore, if one were to give a plain meaning to the word 'penalty', the same normally refers to a civil liability and not a criminal liability. Various statutes like the Income Tax Act,1961 the erstwhile Central Excise Act, the Customs Act, all use the word penalty for imposition of a civil liability. The argument of Mr. Datar that penalty and fine are interchangeably used by giving reference to the two sections of CrPC , that is, Sections 136 and 141 which culminates in fines provided under Section 188 of the IPC do not assist his argument. 44.	The next argument raised by Mr. Datar is that penalty is also being imposed under Section 74 of the CGST Act and therefore imposing a further penalty under Section 122 of the CGST Act for the same contravention would not have been the intention of the legislature. Upon a perusal of Section 74 , it is crystal clear that the penalty imposed under this section is for non payment of tax or where tax had been short paid or erroneously refunded or where ITC has been wrongly availed of or utilised. Ergo, this penalty is very specific in nature in contradistinction to the penalties envisaged under Section 122 of the CGST Act that are far broader and for different actions/omissions that amount to contraventions, not necessarily covered under Section 74 of the CGST Act . 45.	The next argument raised by Mr. Datar is that Section 122 (penalty for certain offences) and Section 132 (punishment for certain offences) of the CGST Act reveal that several sub-sections are identical and therefore the same can only be done by way of conviction under Section 122 of the CGST Act read with Section 134 of the CGST Act. At this stage, one may look at the scheme of the CGST Act and specifically Chapter XIX that starts from 122 and ends with Section 138 . To give a purposeful meaning and interpretation to the various sections provided herein one finds that Section 122 to Section 130 deal with levy of penalty for various contraventions. Thereafter, Section 131 , categorically states that without prejudice to the provisions contained in CrPC , no confiscation made or penalty imposed under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall prevent the infliction of any other punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under the provisions of this Act or under any other law for the time being in force. Subsequent to this, is Section 132 of the CGST Act which relates to punishment for certain offences. The section that follows Section 132 , all deal with punishments that are for serious offences enumerated under Section 132 . Notably, Section 132 lists out only nine offences in contradiction to Section 122 of the CGST Act that enumerates twenty-one offences. Upon a perusal of these offences under Section 132 , it is patently clear that these offences are far more serious in nature and therefore the legislature has chosen to impose criminal punishment for the same. One may also note that before imposing any such punishment, Section 132(6) specifically states that a person shall not be prosecuted for any of the offences provided in the section except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner. One may mark that this requirement is clearly absent in Section 122 of the CGST Act. Upon a further reading of the chapter, one finds Section 138 of the CGST Act relating to compounding of offences, which deals with offences that may be compounded but provides for a proviso that is delineated below: 46.	 The argument of Mr. Datar that Section 134 of the CGST Act envisages that no court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act without the previous sanction of the Commissioner and no court inferior to that of Magistrate of the First Class shall try any such offence would obviously include Section 122 as the word offence is used in the heading of the section as well as in Section 122(3)(a) is a plausible argument that we would have to reject with great humility for the reason that the words used in Section 134 are 'offence punishable under this Act'. On a proper interpretation of the heading of Section 122 of the CGST Act it is clear that penalty is being imposed for the offences enumerated therein whereas in Section 132 of the CGST Act punishment is being imposed for the offences enumerated therein. Coupled with the fact that Section 132 categorically states that previous sanction of the Commissioner is required which is once again reiterated in Section 134 that further clarifies that criminal court that shall try the offences under Sections 132 to 138 . 47.	Mr. Datar has further relied on the notes on clauses of Section 122 of the CGST Act to submit that the word 'offence' has been used in the said notes on clauses. However, the notes on clauses make it categorically clear that for the list of offences enumerated under Section 122 , the same shall only be liable to penalty. There is a stark omission in the notes on clauses with regard to any trial to be carried out before coming to the imposition of such a penalty. On a further reading of the sections provided in chapter XIX one may look at Section 128 of the CGST Act that provides for power provided to the Government to waive penalty or fees or both. It is seen that this provision empowers the GST Council to recommend waiver of any penalty referred to in Section 122 , 123 and 125 or any late fee referred to in Section 147 of the CGST Act and upon such recommendation the Government may by notifications waive these penalties and late fees. Ergo, one would come to the conclusion that the above sections are clubbed in the same bracket and are of the same specie/genus and are clearly civil in nature and on these only penalty or late fees is leviable. 48.	In fact the definition of 'penalty' as cited in Corpus Juris Secundum (Volume 85, page 580, para 1023) relied upon by the petitioner specifically states that a penalty imposed for a tax delinquency is a civil obligation, remedial and coercive in nature. In a taxing statute, one has to give the plain meaning to a particular word and in a catena of judgments of the Supreme Court referred above it has been clarified that penalty for contravention/offences is distinct from prosecution for the same contravention/offences. 49.	The argument of Mr. Datar that the exclusion of certain proceedings/offences under Section 132 of the CGST Act cannot lead to the inference that proceedings under Section 122 of the CGST Act are relatable to a civil liability only for the reason that Parliament could have intended that some of the offences mentioned under Section 122 needed harsher punishment is not acceptable as this submission appears to be contrary to the scheme of the Act. In fact culling out nine offences from Section 122 and creating a separate section for criminal prosecution with the heading punishment for offences itself leads to the inference that Section 122 relates to imposition of a civil liability by way of penalty by the department while for the chosen nine offences criminal proceedings with prior sanction from the Commissioner is contemplated under Section 132(6) of the CGST Act. 50.	The final argument of Mr. Datar on this particular issue is that Section 122 of the CGST Act cannot be adjudicated by department and has to undergo prosecution as it nowhere refers to the word proper officer, and therefore, it has to be concluded that Section 122 is required to be read with Section 134 of the CGST Act and such penalty can only be imposed by way of a criminal trial. He has further referred to CBIC Circular No.3/3/2017-GST dated July 7, 2022 wherein the Board has assigned the proper officer for adjudication in relation to various sections of the CGST Act but has intentionally excluded the proceedings under Section 122 for prosecution by criminal courts. He has further submitted that Section 122 does not contain any reference to proper officer and therefore it implies these proceedings can only be carried out in a criminal court. This argument would have to be rejected on the following grounds: 51.	With reference to the issue (II), it is submitted by the petitioner that if the proceedings under Section 74 of the CGST Act is dropped/concluded against the main person, the proceedings under Section 122 of the CGST Act shall also abate against the main person. The petitioner had relied on the explanation 1(ii) to Section 74 in support of this argument. However, from a reading of the circular no. 171/03/2022-GST dated July 6, 2022, it is clear that the contravention under Section 73 / 74 need not necessarily be a contravention covered under Section 122 of the CGST Act. Explanation 1(ii) of Section 74 categorically states that when the proceedings against the main person under Section 73 / 74 are dropped then the proceedings under Section 122 against the other persons would also abate. However, in a particular case when a show cause notice is issued against the main person under Section 73 / 74 and also against the main person under Section 122 , dropping of proceedings under Section 73 / 74 would not automatically result in dropping of proceedings under Section 122 against the main person as the proceedings are with respect to contravention of two different offences. One may explain this by way of the following example: 52.	In light of the above example, it is clear that there may be scenarios where a proceeding under Section 73 / 74 of the CGST Act may get concluded against the main person but the penalty proceedings under Section 122 of the CGST Act for issue of fake invoices by the main person may stand independent of the proceedings under Section 74 , and therefore, those proceedings under Section 122 would not abate as per the explanation 1(ii) of Section 74 . Conclusion 53.	After detailed analysis, it is clear that the proceeding under Section 122 of the CGST Act is to be adjudicated by the adjudicating officer and is not required to undergo prosecution and also abatement of proceedings under Section 74 of the CGST Act does not ipso facto abate the proceedings under Section 122 which are for completely different offences. 54.	In light of the above discussions, one would come to the inexorable conclusion that Section 122 of the CGST Act is a provision specifically for imposition of penalty to be adjudicated by the proper officer while the provisions from Sections 132 to 138 deal with prosecution to be done by the criminal courts. Moreover, as discussed above, conclusion of proceedings on the main person under Section 74 of the CGST Act shall not ipso facto abate the proceedings under Section 122 of the CGST Act proposed to be imposed on the main person. The scheme of the CGST Act read with CGST Rules lead one to the inescapable conclusion that the arguments raised by the petitioner, though innovative and thought provoking, are fallacious as the interpretation given by the petitioner would lead to obfuscation of the very purpose and objective of the CGST Act . In light of the same, the contentions of the petitioner cannot be countenanced and, are accordingly, rejected. 55.	The writ petition is dismissed. The respondent authorities are directed to continue with the proceedings under Section 122 of the CGST Act in line with the show cause notice issued. 56.	I would like to acknowledge the consummate arguments made by counsel appearing on behalf of both the parties and thank the juniors appearing in the matter for the diligent spadework in preparation of the notes of arguments submitted by both sides. I would also go amiss if I did not appreciate my Research Associates Ms. Saumya Patel and Mr. Ashutosh Srivastava for their in depth research and assistance provided to me. 29.05.2025
 
Kuldeep
 

 

 

 

 
							 (Shekhar B. Saraf, J.)
 

 
 I agree
 

 
			 (Vipin Chandra Dixit, J.)