The complainant/respondent owned a truck which he had got insured with the petitioner company for the period from 12.05.2014 to 11.05.2015.  The aforesaid truck, loaded with goods, was taken from Bahraich on 17.07.2014.  Thereafter, the complainant got no information about the truck and could not contact the driver.  An FIR against the truck driver was therefore, lodged with the police.  The complainant/respondent thereafter, lodged a claim with the insurance company which was rejected by the insurer. Being aggrieved from the rejection of the claim, the complainant approached the concerned District Forum by way of a consumer complaint.  The complaint was resisted by the insurer pleading inter-alia that no intimation of the loss was given to them by the insured.  The District Forum vide its order dated 16.02.2016, allowed the complaint by directing the complainant to present the claim afresh with all necessary documents and directing the insurer to decide the claim within two months thereafter.  The aforesaid order of the District Forum, having not been challenged by the insurer, became final and binding upon the parties. 2.      After the aforesaid order of the District Forum, the insurer again rejected the claim vide letter dated 10.03.2016 which, to the extent it is relevant, reads as under: 3.      Being aggrieved from the second rejection of the claim, the complainant again approached the concerned District Forum by way of a consumer complaint.  The complaint was resisted by the insurer on several grounds including that the driver of the truck having committed criminal breach of trust, the loss was not covered under the insurance policy. 4.      The District Forum having again allowed the complaint vide its order dated 09.01.2018 and having directed the petitioner to pay a sum of Rs.15 lacs to the complainant alongwith interest @ 9% per annum and cost of litigation quantified at Rs.5,000/-, the petitioner approached the concerned State Commission by way of an appeal.  The said appeal having been dismissed, the petitioner is before this Commission by way of this revision petition. 5.      As noted by the State Commission, the Hon'ble Supreme Court clearly held in Galada Power and Telecommunication Limited Vs. United India Insurance Company Ltd. & Anr. (2016) 14 SCC 161, that the insurer cannot be allowed to travel beyond the repudiation letter issued by it and cannot be allowed to contest the claim on a ground which was not the ground of repudiation.  Therefore, the petitioner cannot be allowed to urge a ground other than the ground that the loss was not intimated to it by the insured.  Since the aforesaid ground had already been rejected by the District Forum by allowing the consumer complaint vide its first order dated 16.02.2016, the insurer could not have rejected the claim on that ground, it having accepted the order of the District Forum dated 16.02.2016 by not challenging the same before the concerned State Commission.  Therefore, the petitioner could not have resisted the second consumer complaint on the ground that the loss of the truck had not been intimated to it by the insured. 6.      As far as the plea that the driver having committed criminal breach of trust in respect of the insured vehicle, the loss was not covered under the insurance policy, the plea cannot be accepted for two reasons: Firstly, the aforesaid was not the ground for rejection of the claim vide repudiation letter dated 10.03.2016.  Therefore, in view of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Galada Power and Telecommunication Limited (supra), the said plea cannot be allowed to be taken.  Even on merits, the plea taken by the insurer has no substance. A reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this Commission in Jagrut Nagrik & Anr. Vs. Oriental Insurance Company Limited decided on 09.02.2018, which to the extent it is relevant, reads as under: "7.      This question again came up for consideration of this Commission in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Ravi Kant Gopalka, R.P. No.1958 of 2004 decided on 13.09.2007 by a Bench of three Members.  In the above referred case, the insured vehicle was taken away by the driver for servicing but the driver neither turned up nor did he bring back the vehicle.  An FIR against the driver for committing theft of the vehicle was lodged and the insurance company was also informed.  No claim having been paid, a complaint was filed.  The State Commission ruled in favour of the complainant. Being aggrieved the insurance company approached this Commission and contended that since the police had registered a case under Section 406 of the Indian Penal Code ( I.P.C .), the act of taking away of the vehicle by the driver would not amount to theft.  Rejecting the contention and holding the order of the State Commission, this Commission held as under:- 8.      The learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Ishar Das Madan Lal , (2007) 4 Supreme Court Cases 105.  In the case before the Hon'ble Supreme court, the respondent, which was a Jeweller had lodged a claim alleging theft of jewellery by a customer to whom the jewellery was temporarily handed over by the complainant.  The question before the Hon'ble Court was as to whether the handed over the jewellery to a customer amount to entrustment.  Ruling in favour of the complainant and against the insurance company, the Hon'ble Supreme Court inter-alia held as under:- 16. In Webster's Universal Dictionary meaning of the word 'entrust' reads as under : 17. Apart from the fact that the said meaning of the term "entrustment" goes against the submission Mr. Mehra, we may notice that in Black's Law Dictionary the word "entrusting" in commercial law has been described as: 9.      In the case relied by the learned counsel for the petitioner, the Hon'ble Supreme Court was not concerned with the question as to whether a case of the driver of a vehicle found missing along with vehicle would constitute theft or criminal breach of trust.  On the other hand, the above referred decisions of this Commission directly cover a case where the driver takes a vehicle and then does not return.  Moreover, this Commission has also taken the view that such a case will also amount to a malicious act and therefore the loss would be covered under the insurance policy taken by the owner of the vehicle.  Since I am bound by the previous decisions of this Commission rendered by a Larger Bench, it is not open to me to take a contrary view unless the aforesaid decisions are shown to be per incuriam.  The petitioner however has failed to show that the aforesaid decisions rendered by the Larger Bench of this Commission are per incuriam." 7.      For the reasons stated hereinabove, I find no merit in the revision petition, which is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs. ......................J V.K. JAIN PRESIDING MEMBER