The state of Karnataka released a Cyber Security Policy intended to create a governance structure and chain of command to secure government digital assets and promote awareness about cyber security among citizens. The state government has earmarked over Rs. 100 crore for the policy and collaborated with Cisco to train 40,000 people, half of which will be women, in cybersecurity skills and awareness, The Hindu reported .

The cybersecurity policy has two parts: one which seeks to protect the state’s digital assets and another which will promote awareness, skill-building and innovation.

The policy applies to all state government departments, agencies, and associated private entities. It is intended to protect the government’s information assets from cyber threats, identify vulnerabilities and respond to cyber threats. It also aims to secure electronic services, build user trust, and encourage the adoption of secure IT infrastructure across the state’s economy. Further, the policy outlines objectives including implementing national and international standards, working with law enforcement agencies, and establishing a Security Operation Centre for critical IT infrastructure.

According to the governance structure presented, the Chief Secretary oversees policy implementation and chairs the Cyber Security Committee (CSC). The CSC, comprising senior officials from various departments and external experts, reviews policy, identifies risks, and recommends funding for cybersecurity initiatives. It also includes the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) for the state, who is responsible for setting up a dedicated expert team, evaluating security infrastructure, and maintaining a cyber risk register. Below the CISO, department level Information Security Officers (ISOs) are expected to implement the state policy and ensure cyber security in various government departments.

The policy also presents a number of strategies intended to fulfil the policy’s objectives

The second half of the cybersecurity policy focuses on raising public awareness, promoting research and development and skill-building. It also seeks to include demographics it considers to be more vulnerable to cyber threats:

The policy is expressed through five pillars:

This policy comes in the aftermath of a serious cyberattack on the cryptocurrency platform WazirX , which resulted in the theft of over $230 million.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event