% (Video-Conferencing) 1. By this order, I dispose of I.A. 18292/2019, preferred by the
 plaintiff FDC Ltd under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 of the Code of
 Civil Procedure , 1908 ( CPC ), seeking interim injunction against the
 defendant M/s Faraway Foods Pvt Ltd, from manufacturing,
 marketing or selling products under the mark "MUMUM" which, it is
 alleged, is deceptively similar to the trade mark "MUMMUM", used
 by the plaintiff. Rival Pleadings 2. The plaintiff claims to have coined and adopted the trade mark
 "MUMMUM" in 1986, and has been continuously and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 1 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 uninterruptedly using the said trade mark in India since 2008. The
 trade mark, it is contended, was first used for infant foods. On 28th
 April, 1986, the plaintiff was granted a manufacturing license, for
 manufacturing preparations under the trade mark "MUMMUM". The
 plaintiff also applied for BIS (Bureau of Indian Standards)
 certification, for its products being manufactured and sold under the
 trade mark "MUMMUM" in 2007, and was granted certification as
 sought. 3. It is claimed, by the plaintiff, that the trade mark "MUMMUM"
 is fanciful and inherently distinctive, and cannot be treated as
 descriptive of the product of the plaintiff. By long and continuous
 use, it is contended that the plaintiff has acquired exclusive rights to
 use and exploit the trade mark "MUMMUM". As is customary, the
 plaintiff has also provided a tabular statement of the audited sales
 figures of its products being sold under the trade mark "MUMMUM",
 during the period 2008-2009 till 2019-2020. By long and continuous
 use, therefore, it is claimed that the plaintiff has become the owner of
 the trade mark "MUMMUM". 4. It is further claimed that, in December 2019, the plaintiff
 devised a new, unique and distinctive trade dress, for its products
 bearing the trade mark "MUMMUM", and also launched food
 products for kids over 6 months of age, under the trade mark
 "MUMMUM 2". 5. Prior adoption and long and continuous user have, therefore,
 according to the plaintiff, resulted in creation of common law rights in
 favour of the plaintiff over the trade mark "MUMMUM". The
 plaintiff has provided the details of its registered trade marks thus: The above registrations, it is averred, have been renewed and are
 currently valid and subsisting. The defendant has filed applications
 for rectification, before the Registry of Trade Marks, of the aforesaid
 Registrations 533219 and 533221, granted to the plaintiff, but no
 decision has been taken thereon. It is further claimed that the
 plaintiff's products are sold through various websites and are,
 therefore, nationally popular. 6. The plaintiff claims to have, in May 2018, come across an
 application filed by the defendant, before the Registry of Trade
 Marks, for registration of the following trade mark, in Class 30: 7. Asserting that the aforesaid trade mark, which the defendant
 was seeking to have registered, was deceptively similar to the trade
 mark of the plaintiff, pre-grant oppositions, to the defendant's trade Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 3 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 mark, were filed, by the plaintiff, before the Registrar of Trade Marks,
 on various dates, which have been tabulated, in the plaint, thus: 8. The plaint also relies on the fact that the defendant applied for
 registration of the word mark "MUMUM" in Class 30, but withdrew
 the application on 4th November, 2016. This, it is asserted, was
 consequent to the examination report of the Registrar of Trade Marks. 9. The essential and most prominent part of the defendant's device
 mark, submits the plaintiff, is the word 'MUMUM', which is visually,
 phonetically and structurally similar to the plaintiffs 'MUMMUM'
 trade mark. The plaintiff's trade mark having been registered prior in
 point of time, it is asserted that the defendant cannot be permitted to
 manufacture or sell its products under the 'MUMUM' trade mark.
 Else, it is submitted, confusion is bound to ensue in the mind of the
 unwary customer. The defendant is, therefore, it is claimed, guilty
 both of infringement as well as of passing off its products as those of
 the plaintiff. 10. The defendant has, in its written statement, contested the case
 set up by the plaintiff. It is asserted, in the written statement, that the
 two directors of the defendant-Company are both mothers, who
 coined the "MUMUM Co" trade mark, to apply to snacks for children
 of all age groups. It is further stated that, on 24thFebruary, 2017, the

 defendant's trade mark was registered in Class 29, and that
 the defendant is marketing its product, using the said trade mark, since
 October, 2017. The application of the defendant, for registration of

 the aforesaid Mark in Class 30 is, it is submitted, pending
 before the Registrar of Trade Marks, owing to the opposition filed by
 the plaintiff. 11. The defendant, in its written statement, has disputed the claim
 of infringement and passing off, by the defendant, as set up by the
 plaintiff. The defendant points out that the plaintiff's products are
 infant milk substitutes, which are covered under the description "food
 for babies", in Class 5 of the Fourth Schedule to the Trade Marks
 Rules, 2017. The website of the plaintiff, it is submitted, does not
 disclose the use, by the plaintiff, of the aforesaid 'MUMMUM' trade
 mark for any product falling in Class 29 or 30. 'MUMMUM 2', it is
 submitted, which are also infant milk substitutes but intended for
 babies over 6 months of age, has been sold by the plaintiff only since
 December 2019. In that respect, therefore, the defendant claims to be

 the prior adopter and use of its trade mark , in respect of goods
 falling under Classes 29 and 30. 12. In the Fourth Schedule to the Trade Mark Rules, it may be
 noted that Class 5 covers "pharmaceutical, veterinary and sanitary
 preparations, dietetic substances adapted for medical use, food for
 babies, plasters materials for dressings, material for stopping teeth,
 dental wax, disinfectants", Class 29 covers "meat, fish, poultry and
 game, meat extracts, preserved, dried and cooked fruits and
 vegetables, jellies, jams, eggs, milk and milk products, edible oils and
 fats, salad dressings", and Class 30 covers "flour and preparations
 made from cereals". 13. The defendant also disputes the assertion, of the plaintiff, that
 there is any likelihood of confusion, between the plaintiff's and the
 defendant's trade marks. In this context, it is pointed out that the
 plaintiff's products are regulated by the Infant Milk Substitutes,
 Feeding Bottles and Infant Foods (Regulation of Production, Supply
 and Distribution) Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as "the Infant Milk
 Substitutes Act"), which strictly prohibits direct or indirect
 advertisement or promotion of the plaintiff's product. It is submitted
 that the plaintiff's products could be obtained only on the advice of
 health workers. In view thereof, the defendant submits that the
 plaintiff's and the defendant's products belong to different classes
 altogether, which are used by different categories of consumers.
 Besides, points out the defendant, even visually, the products of the
 plaintiff and the defendant are completely distinct, and there is no
 scope for confusion between them. A tabular comparison of the
 products of the plaintiff and the defendant is provided, in the plaint,
 thus: 14. The defendant contends that the plaintiff's products are not
 available in retail stores or general stores, but could only be obtained
 in pharmacies, on the advice of health workers. As against this, the
 defendant's products are sold in over 250 retail shops and online
 portals. 15. The plaintiff's claim is also sought to be opposed on the ground
 that the expression 'MUMMUM' is descriptive, as the word "mum" is
 synonymous with "mother". Further, it is pointed out, though the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 10 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 trade mark registered in favour of the plaintiff is "MUM-MUM", the
 plaintiff is not employing the said registered trade mark, but is
 manufacturing and clearing its products under the mark
 "MUMMUM", omitting the hyphen. The plaintiff cannot, therefore,
 contends the defendant, claim to be using its registered trade mark.
 The defendant also points out that its mark is a combination trade
 mark, which combines the word "MUMUM" with the phrases "The",
 "Co" and "VERY VERY VERY REAL". It cannot, therefore, be said
 that the defendant's trade mark is visually, phonetically and
 structurally similar to that of the plaintiff. 16. The defendant contends that, though the plaintiff obtained
 registration, for its "MUM-MUM" trade mark, in Classes 29 and 30,
 as far back as in 1990, it has been squatting over the said trade mark,
 without manufacturing or marketing any product, falling under
 Classes 29 or 30, under the said trade mark, till date. In fact, even on
 this ground, contends the defendant, a case for cancellation of the said
 trade mark, under clauses (a) and (b) of Section 47(1) of the Trade
 Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as "the Trade Marks Act ") is

 made out. Further, as is the defendant's registered trade mark,
 in respect of goods falling under Class 29, it is asserted that no case of
 infringement can lie against the defendant, at the instance of the
 plaintiff. 17. The defendant, therefore, prays that the suit be dismissed as
 devoid of merit. Rival Contentions at the Bar 18. I heard, at length, Ms. Swetashree Majumdar and Mr. Rakesh
 Sinha, learned counsel for the plaintiff and the defendant,
 respectively. Learned Counsels have also placed notes of submissions
 on record. 19. The submissions of Ms. Majumdar may be enumerated thus: Ms. Majumdar points out that "use", or working, of the trade
 mark, started from the point of its adoption, and not from the
 point of sale of goods, bearing the trade mark, in the market. (2003) 11 SCC 92 2 (2008) 10 SCC 766 3 2007 (142) DLT 300 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 12 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 (ii) Without prejudice, absence of use, by the plaintiff, of its
 registered trade mark, did not entitle the defendant to infringe it,
 so long as the plaintiff was the prior adopter, as held in Poison
 Ltd. v. Polson Dairy Ltd. 4. As such, submits Ms. Majumdar,
 the registration of the plaintiff's trade marks in Class 5, coupled
 with the phonetic identity between the plaintiff's and the
 defendant's trade marks, and the fact that the marks were used
 on goods which were at least allied or similar, was sufficient to
 make out a case of infringement, by the defendant, of the
 plaintiff's trade marks. (iii) The withdrawal, by the defendant, of its application,
 dated 4th November, 2016, for registration of the word mark
 "MUMUM", in Classes 29 and 30, which was based on
 "proposed use", consequent to objection by the Registry of
 Trade marks on the basis of the similarity of the said word
 Mark with the prior registration as held by the plaintiff,
 amounted to an acceptance, by the defendant, of the said
 similarity. (iv) Allegations of infringement could not be traversed by
 pleading dissimilarity. Section 29(2) of the Trade Marks Act
 encompassed infringement by use of similar marks, in respect
 of similar goods, but similarity was not to be viewed by
 reference to the classification of goods in the Schedule to the
 Trade Marks Rules. Reliance was placed, for this proposition, 4 1994 (56) DLT 102 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 13 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 on the judgment of this Court in FDC Ltd v. Docsuggest
 Healthcare Services Pvt Ltd 5. (v) The test, for assessing whether infringement had, or had
 not, taken place, was to test similarity, and not dissimilarity.
 For this purpose, the plaintiff cites Cadila Health Care Ltd v.
 Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd 6. (vi) The tests of phonetic and visual similarity were
 disjunctive, and not conjunctive. Satisfaction of either test
 resulted in proof of infringement. For this purpose, the plaintiff
 cites the judgments of this Court in South India Beverages Pvt
 Ltd v. General Mills Marketing Inc.7 and Inter Ikea Systems
 BV v. Annanya Gautam 8. (vii) So long as the plaintiff's trade mark possessed
 "distinctive character and repute", similarity of goods was not a
 sine qua non for infringement, under Section 29(4) of the Trade
 Marks Act, as held by this Court in Bloomberg Finance LP v.
 Praful Saklecha 9. (viii) Even usage of the domain name, or email ID, involving
 the trade mark of another, could result in infringement. For this
 purpose, reliance has been placed on the judgments of this
 Court in World Book Inc. v. World Book Company (P) Ltd 10 5 2017 SCC OnLine Del 6381 6 (2001) 5 SCC 73 7 (2015) 61 PTC 231 (DB) 8 2018 SCC OnLine Del 11665 9 2014 (207) DLT 35 10 2014 (215) DLT 511 : (2014) 60 PTC 467 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 14 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 and of the High Court of Madras in ISSAC ISAAC Mathai v.
 Sowkhya Way 2 Health P. Ltd11. (ix) The dominant part of the defendant's mark was the word
 "MUMUM". This was also apparent from the defendant's
 domain name which was www.mumumco.com, as well as from
 the trading style adopted by the defendant on its social media
 and other websites. (x) "MUMUM" and "MUMMUM" were phonetically
 identical. Phonetic similarity was to be gauged, under Section
 29 (9) of the Trade Marks Act on the basis of the spoken use of
 the words. (xi) Even applying the principle of initial interest confusion, a
 clear case of infringement, by the defendant, of the plaintiff's
 trade mark was made out. (xii) Ms. Majumdar has also relied on promotional literature
 of the defendant, which contains the caption "The MUMMUM
 all mothers need!" This, she submits, clearly betrayed the
 defendant's intention of causing actual confusion. (xiii) The two marks were being used for similar goods, the
 defendant's mark being used for food for children and the
 plaintiff's mark being used for food for babies. The customer
 base for the products was, therefore, also the same, i.e. children.
 This, of course, was without prejudice to the submission that, 11 2013 (56) PTC 537 (Mad) Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 15 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 even if the marks were used for goods which were not similar, a
 case of infringement would, nevertheless, exist. (xiv) A logo registration did not confer rights over the word
 contained in the logo. Reliance was placed, for this purpose, on
 Ikea Systems BV8. (xv) The judgment of the Supreme Court in Nandhini Deluxe
 v. Karnataka Co-operative Milk Producers Federation Ltd 12 ,
 on which Mr. Sinha placed reliance, was distinguishable. In
 that case, the Supreme Court was examining whether two trade
 marks could be allowed to coexist on the register. It was not
 examining an allegation of infringement or passing off. The
 Supreme Court held against the respondent, before it, on the
 ground that the respondent had failed to demonstrate
 distinctiveness in its trade mark in the short period between
 adoption and use by the appellants before the Supreme Court. (xvi) The reliance, by Mr. Sinha, on the Infant Milk
 Substitutes Act, was misplaced. The plaintiff's registration was
 not for Infant Milk Substitutes nor was the regulatory
 permission obtained by the plaintiff limited to infant milk
 substitutes. There was, therefore, no such restriction on the
 goods which the plaintiff could clear under the brands
 MUMMUM or MUMMUM 2. (xvii) While it was true that the Infant Milk Substitutes Act
 prohibited consumer focused advertisement, there was no 12 (2018) 9 SCC 183 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 16 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 regulatory embargo on promoting products through other
 channels, such as medical representatives, or directly to
 healthcare workers or doctors. In this connection, reliance was
 placed on the promotional expenses incurred by the plaintiff. (xviii) It was also incorrect to aver that the plaintiff's product
 could be purchased only on the prescription of a healthcare
 worker. Consultation with healthcare workers found place in
 the information published on the containers in which the
 plaintiff sold its goods, but there was no restriction or
 prohibition on sale of the product at chemists or other licensed
 retail establishments. In fact, contends Ms. Majumdar, both the
 plaintiff's and the defendant's products were sold on the
 1mg.com website. (xix) In any event, the Infant Milk Substitutes Act governs the
 method of sale and promotion of a class of products, and could
 not have the effect of extinguishing the plaintiff's trade mark
 rights. For this purpose, the plaintiff cites Playboy Enterprises
 v. Bharat Malik13 . (xx) Finally, relying on the judgments of this Court in
 Automatic Electric Ltd. v. R. K. Dhawan14and Anchor Health
 & Beauty Care Ltd v. Proctor & Gamble Mfg. Co. Ltd 15, Ms.
 Majumdar contends that, having themselves claimed trade mark 13 2001 (91) DLT 321 14 1999 (77) DLT 292 : (1999) 19 PTC 81 15 (2014) 59 PTC 105 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 17 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 rights over identical and similar marks, the defendant cannot
 contend that the plaintiff's trade mark is descriptive in nature. 20. Responding to Ms. Majumdar's submissions, Mr. Sinha
 contends thus: Mr. Sinha also pointed out that, even in affidavits before the
 Registrar of Trade Marks, the defendant had clarified that the
 withdrawal of its application was without prejudice to his rights
 and was essentially intended to avoid multiplicity of
 proceedings. In the circumstances, contends Mr. Sinha, no case for grant of ad
 interims injunction exists. Analysis 21. One may identify, even at this prima facie stage, the following
 clear issues, which arise for consideration: As against this, Ms. Majumdar submits that the "dominant
 feature" of the defendant's trade mark is the word "MUMUM"
 which is identical, phonetically similar, to the plaintiff's
 "MUMMUM" trade mark. (4) Is mere phonetic similarity, in the absence of visual or
 structural similarity, enough, to make out a case of
 infringement? Mr. Sinha would answer in the negative,
 whereas Ms. Majumdar would answer in the affirmative. (5) What is the concept of "use", or "usage", in the context
 of trade marks? Can a trade mark which is registered, but
 which is never used for the product in respect of which
 registration has been granted, be said to be "used", within the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 24 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 meaning of the Trade Marks Act ? Again, Mr. Sinha would
 answer in the negative; Ms. Majumdar in the affirmative. (6) Are the plaintiff's and defendant's products similar or
 identical? To what extent is the classification of the competing
 goods, under the Trade Marks Rules, relevant, in ascertaining
 similarity or identity of the products being manufactured and
 sold by the plaintiff and the defendant? (7) To what extent is "use" or "usage" relevant, in the
 context of infringement? Can the plaintiff plead infringement,
 by a defendant, of a trade mark which, though registered in
 favour of the plaintiff, has never been used by the plaintiff to
 manufacture or sell the products, in respect of which
 registration has been granted to it? Yet again, Mr. Sinha would
 answer in the negative, whereas Ms. Majumdar would answer
 in the affirmative. (8) How far is identity of customer base a relevant
 consideration, while examining a case of infringement? Mr.
 Sinha emphasises that the customer bases, to which the
 plaintiff's and defendant's products cater, are totally different,
 and that the customers for whom the plaintiff's products are
 intended can never consume the defendant's products, nor,
 ordinarily, vice versa. Ms. Majumdar submits that, even if the
 customer bases are not identical, they are, at the least, "allied".
 This throws into focus the issue of whether the customer bases, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 25 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 to which the products cater, if a relevant consideration, are
 required to be identical, or whether it is enough if they are
 allied. If the latter, the question next arises, as to what "allied"
 customer bases would be? (9) What is the "initial interest confusion test", and how far
 is it relevant? (10) Is the defendant estopped from pleading that the
 plaintiff's trade mark is descriptive in nature? If not, is the
 plaintiff's trade mark descriptive? If so, how far does this
 affect the case of the plaintiff? Judicial Authorities 22. The plaintiff has, in the plaint, alleged that the defendant has
 infringed the registered trade mark of the plaintiff, and has also sought
 to pass off its goods as those of the plaintiff. Distinction between infringement and passing off 23. Infringement and passing off are distinct torts which may,
 however, involve overlapping considerations. An action for
 infringement essentially seeks to protect the intellectual property right
 of the holder of a registered trade mark, and is essentially in the nature
 of a proprietorial right, against others who may use trade marks which
 are deceptively similar to the trade mark of the plaintiff. Proof of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 26 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 use of a deceptively similar trade mark, therefore, ipso facto confirms
 the existence of infringement. Nothing more is required. 24. The fact that, by using the same, or a deceptively similar, trade
 mark, a trader may be infringing the trade mark of prior user does not,
 however, necessarily lead to the implication that the trader is passing
 off its goods as those of the registered trade mark holder. In fact, the
 tort of passing off does not require, for its establishment, the trade
 mark of the plaintiff to be registered. This is essentially because the
 tort of passing off is directed against the goods, and not against the
 mark. Simply put, one infringes a trade mark, but one passes off
 one's goods as those of another. Usage of a deceptively similar trade
 mark is only the means by which the tort of passing off is committed.
 The mere establishment of the fact that the defendant is using the
 trade mark which is deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff does
 not, however, necessarily ipso facto lead to an inevitable inference of
 passing off. It is open to the defendant to show, by other means, that,
 even if the trade mark, used by the defendant, is deceptively similar to
 that of the plaintiff, the defendant is, nevertheless, not guilty of the
 tort of passing off, as other factors, seen cumulatively, negate the
 possibility of the customer being deceived or confused. In Satyam
 Infoway Ltd v. Siffynet Solutions (P) Ltd 16, it was held that "the
 passing of action is based on the goodwill that a trader has in his name
 unlike an action for infringement of a trade mark where a trader's
 right is based on property in the name as such." The essence of the 16 (2004) 6 SCC 145 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 27 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 tort of passing of was thus expressed by the Supreme Court, in Cadila
 Health Care6: The Supreme Court also and relied, in this context, on the following
 passage, from Kaviraj Pt. Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna
 Pharmaceutical Laboratories 17 (referred to, hereinafter, as Durga
 Dutt Sharma): 25. Judgments of the Supreme Court have, over a period of time,
 delineated, authoritatively, the torts of infringement and passing off,
 in all their myriad colours and complexions. It would be instructive,
 therefore, to study, chronologically, some of the pronouncements of
 the Supreme Court, which have contributed to the crystallisation of
 the law in this respect. 26. The earliest authoritative pronouncement, in this context, is
 probably the judgment of the Supreme Court in National Sewing
 Thread Co. Ltd v. James Chadwick & Bros . Ltd 18. The appellant
 National Sewing Trade Co Ltd (hereinafter referred to as "NSTCL")
 and the respondent James Chadwick & Bros Ltd (hereinafter referred
 to as "JC") were both engaged in the manufacturing of sewing thread.
 The trade mark of JC consisted of an eagle with outspread wings,
 known as the "Eagle" mark. Sewing thread, bearing the Eagle mark
 was regularly imported into, and sold in, India, on an extensive scale.
 NSTCL, around 1940, started selling cotton sewing thread, under a
 mark consisting of the device of a bird with outspread wings perched
 on a cylinder of cotton sewing thread, with the words "Eagle Brand",
 and the name of NSTCL printed on the mark. On JC objecting,
 NSTCL replaced the words "Eagle Brand", with the words "Vulture 18 AIR 1953 SC 357 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 29 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 Brand". In all other respects, the mark remained unchanged. JC
 alleged that NSTCL was passing off its goods as those of JC. The
 challenge failed. JC also opposed, before the Registrar of Trade
 Marks, the application of NSTCL, for registration of its "Vulture
 Brand" Mark. The Registrar of Trade Marks allowed the opposition
 and rejected NSTCL's application. He also held that the use of the
 words "Vulture Brand", accompanying the pictorial depiction of an
 eagle, was misleading and liable to cause confusion. NSTCL
 appealed against the decision of the Registrar to the High Court of
 Bombay. A learned Single Judge of the High Court allowed the appeal
 and directed the Registrar of Trade Marks to register the trade mark of
 NSTCL. A Letters Patent Appeal, preferred against the decision of
 the learned Single Judge, was allowed by the Division Bench of the
 High Court, which restored the order of the Registrar. NSTCL
 appealed to the Supreme Court. 27. Apparently innocent of the behemoth that infringement and
 passing off jurisprudence would metamorphose into, with the passage
 of time, and the volume of litigation it would spawn, the Supreme
 Court opined that the controversy before it "admitted of an easy
 answer in spite of a number of hurdles and difficulties suggested
 during the arguments". Section 8 of the Trade Marks Act, 1940
 (hereinafter referred to as "the 1940 Act") prohibited the registration
 of any trade mark, "the use of which would by reason of its being
 likely to deceive or to cause confusion or otherwise, be disentitled to
 protection in a court of justice". The Supreme Court observed that,
 plainly read, Section 8 did not permit the registration of any trade Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 30 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 mark which was likely to deceive or to cause confusion, irrespective
 of whether it did, or did not, bear any resemblance with any other
 trade mark. Para 22 of the report went on to hold as under: (Emphasis supplied)

 Thus was born, in our jurisprudence, the mythical "average man of
 ordinary intelligence" who, with the passage of time, got
 transmogrified into the man of "average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection". 28. Applying the above test to the facts before it, the Supreme
 Court held that "the particular feature of the trade mark of the
 respondents by which the goods are identified and which is associated
 in the mind of the purchaser is the representation of an eagle
 appearing in the trade mark". Thus, held the Supreme Court, if the
 trade mark conveyed the idea of an eagle, and if an unwary purchaser
 was likely to accept the goods of the appellant's as answering the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 31 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 requisition for Eagle goods, the trade mark of the appellant's was
 bound to deceive or cause confusion. It was held that "the bird in the
 appellant's trade mark (was) likely to be mistaken by an average man
 of ordinary intelligence as an Eagle and if he asked for Eagle goods
 and he got goods bearing this trade mark of the appellant's it is not
 likely that he would reject them by saying that this cannot be an
 Eagle". The act of NSTCL, in "camouflaging an Eagle into a vulture
 by calling it as such", it was held, was likely to cause confusion. The
 Supreme Court, examining the mark still further, opined that the bird,
 in the trade mark of NSTCL, "certainly (did) not represent a vulture or
 look like a vulture of any form or shape". What had, therefore, been
 named by NSTCL as a vulture, it was held, was "really an eagle
 seated in a different posture". NSTCL had, therefore, it was held,
 failed to discharge the burden, on it, to establish that its trade mark
 was not likely to deceive or cause confusion. 29. Having thus held against NSTCL on the aspect of infringement,
 the Supreme Court tellingly underscored the distinction between
 infringement and passing off, in para 24 of the report, which read
 thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 Seen in the background of the preceding findings of the Supreme
 Court, this passage assumes additional significance, in view of the
 acknowledgement, therein, that "the general get up" of the trade mark
 of NSTCL was different from that of JC. Even so, as already noted
 hereinabove, the Supreme Court held the trade mark of NSTCL to be
 likely to deceive, or cause confusion, in the mind of the "average man
 of ordinary intelligence". 30. Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products
 Ltd19 , again, dealt with an application for registration of trade mark,
 made by the respondent (hereinafter referred to as "Shangrila") and
 opposed by Corn Products Refining Co (hereinafter referred to as
 "Corn Products"). Shangrila manufactured biscuits. It applied for
 registration of the mark "Gluvita" in respect of the biscuits
 manufactured by it. Corn Products had earlier registered the mark
 "Glucovita" in respect of glucose powder, used as an ingredient in
 food. The mark "Glucovita" was also registered in respect of
 "infants' and invalid's foods". Corn Products opposed the application
 of Shangrila, for registration of its "Gluvita" Mark. On the ground 19 AIR 1960 SC 142 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 33 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 that biscuits and glucose powder were not goods in the same Class,
 the opposition was rejected by the Deputy Registrar. In due course of
 time, the matter travelled to the Supreme Court. 31. The Supreme Court held, at the outset, that Corn Products'
 mark had acquired a reputation among the public. Thereafter, on the
 aspect of confusion, the Supreme Court noted that the High Court had
 proceeded on the ground that the various trade marks existed, bearing
 the suffix "Gluco" and "Vita", which made it impossible to hold that
 the common features "Glu" and "Vita" were only associated with the
 biscuits manufactured by Corn Products. In para 15 and 16 of the
 report, the Supreme Court went on to hold thus: After holding that Shangrila had failed to discharge this burden, the
 Supreme Court disagreed with the approach, of the Registrar of Trade
 Marks, who proceeded on the ground that the insertion, between the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 34 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 syllables "Glu" and "vi" in the trade mark of JC, of the syllable "co"
 resulted in absence of likelihood of confusion between the two marks.
 In this context, the Supreme Court held, in paras 18 to 22 of the
 report, thus: case (In re: an application by LadislasJellinek [63 RPC
 59]). The goods there concerned were shoes and shoe
 polishes. It was observed that shoe polishes being used for
 shoes, there was trade connection between them and that this
 might lead to confusion or deception though the goods were
 different. The application for registration was however
 refused under that section of the English Act which
 corresponds to Section 8 of our Act on the ground that the
 opponents, the manufacturers of shoes, had not established a
 reputation for their trade mark among the public. 21. It is true that in both the abovementioned cases the two
 competing trade marks were absolutely identical which is not
 the case here. But that in our opinion makes no difference.
 The absolute identity of the two competing marks or their
 close resemblance is only one of the tests for determining the
 question of likelihood of deception or confusion. Trade
 connection between different goods is another such test. Ex
 hypothesi, this latter test applies only when the goods are
 different. These tests are independent tests. There is no
 reason why the test of trade connection between different
 goods should not apply where the competing marks closely
 resemble each other just as much as it applies, as held in the
 "Black Magic" and "Panda" cases, where the competing
 marks were identical. Whether by applying these tests in a
 particular case the conclusion that there is likelihood of
 deception or confusion should be arrived at would depend on
 all the facts of the case. 22. It is then said that biscuits containing glucose are
 manufactured with liquid glucose whereas the appellant's
 mark only concerns powder glucose. We will assume that
 only liquid glucose is used in the manufacture of biscuits with
 glucose. But there is nothing to show that an average buyer
 knows with what kind of glucose, biscuits containing glucose
 are or can be made. ... So, a trade connection between
 glucose and biscuits would appear to be established. We are
 therefore of opinion that the commodities concerned in the
 present case are so connected as to make confusion or
 deception likely in view of the similarity of the two trade
 marks. We think that the decision of Desai, J., was right." 32. The respondent in Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo
 Gupta 20, the next in the line of authorities for consideration, desired to
 register the tradename of a biochemical medicinal preparation
 commonly known as "Lakshmandhara", which he claimed to have
 been using since 1923, and which had achieved a distinctive
 reputation. The appellant opposed the application on the ground that
 the word "Amritdhara" was already registered as a tradename for the
 medicinal preparation manufactured by it, which had been introduced
 in the market in 1901 and was immensely popular. The preparation
 being sold under the name "Lakshmandhara" was, it was submitted,
 the same as that which the appellant sold under the name
 "Amritdhara". This, it was contended, was likely to confuse an
 unwary purchaser in assuming "Lakshmandhara" to be "Amritdhara".
 The respondent, needless to say, disputed the allegation of similarity
 between the names "Amritdhara" and "Lakshmandhara". AIR 1963 SC 449 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 37 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 33. Two questions were framed by the Supreme Court as arising for
 its consideration, of which we need advert only to the first, i.e.,
 whether the name "Lakshmandhara" was likely to deceive the public
 or cause confusion to trade, in the light of Section 8 of the 1940 Act.
 The test to be applied was thus postulated by the Supreme Court in
 para 6 of the report, relying on the classical enunciation of the law by
 Parker, J., in In re. Pianotist Application21: (Emphasis supplied) 34. Applying the above tests to the facts before it, the Supreme
 Court held that there was likelihood of confusion, in the mind of a
 person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection, between
 "Amritdhara" and "Lakshmandhara", in paras 7 and 8 of the report,
 which read thus: 35. The next significant decision, chronologically, is Durga Dutt
 Sharma17, in 1964. The respondent Navaratna Pharmaceutical
 Laboratories (hereinafter referred to as "NPL") manufactured
 medicinal products, under the trade marks "Navaratna" and
 "Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories". NPL applied for
 registration of the words "Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories".
 The trade mark was registered. In October 1946, Durga Dutt Sharma
 (hereinafter referred to as "DDS") applied for registration of the name
 "Navaratna Kalpa", in respect of Ayurvedic pharmaceutical products
 manufactured by it. The application was opposed by NPL, and the
 opposition was upheld, resulting in refusal of the application for
 registration filed by DDS. The matter was carried by DDS to court,
 culminating in the matter reaching the Supreme Court. 36. The first of the issues considered by the Supreme Court was
 whether the trade mark of DDS, namely "Navaratna Pharmacy" so
 nearly resembled the trade mark of NPL as to be likely to deceive or
 cause confusion in the course of trade. At the outset, the Supreme
 Court observed that it was not in doubt that the words "Navaratna Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 41 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 Pharmacy" and "Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories" were
 similar, in the manner understood by Section 21 of the 1940 Act.
 Next, the contention, of the appellant, that, owing to the dissimilarity
 of the packing in which the goods of NPL and DDS were marketed,
 there was no possibility of deception of confusion, was rejected by the
 Supreme Court on the ground that these considerations were relevant
 to action for passing off, but not for an action for infringement. Qua
 actions for infringement, the Supreme Court went on to hold, in paras
 28 and 29 of the report, as under: (Emphasis supplied) 37. Comparing the marks "Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories" 38. Proceeding to 1969, two significant judgments were delivered
 by the Supreme Court, in the said year, of which the first was K. R.
 Krishna Chettiar v. Shri Ambal& Co.22 The appellant in that case (hereinafter referred to as "KRKC") applied for registration of a trade
 mark, in respect of snuff manufactured in Madras. The trade mark
 consisted of a label containing three panels, of which the first and
 third panels contained the words "Shri Andal Madras Snuff", whereas
 the centre panel contained the picture of the goddess Andal, with the
 legend "Sri Andal". The application of KRKC was opposed by the
 respondent (hereinafter referred to as "SAC") on the ground that it
 was deceptively similar to the registered trade marks of SAC, one of
 which contained a device of the goddess Sri Ambal seated on a globe
 floating on water enclosed in a circular frame with the legend "Sri
 Ambal Parimala Snuff" with the name and address of "Sri Ambal &
 Co., Madras" at the bottom, and the second consisting of the
 expression "Sri Ambal". The Supreme Court decided the matter, in
 paras 5 to 10 of the report, thus: 270 of the same volume it appears that Vick Chemical
 Company were the proprietors of the registered trade mark
 consisting of the word "Vaporub" and another registered
 trade mark consisting of a design of which the words "Vicks
 Vaporub Salve" formed a part. The appendix at p. 226 shows
 that the defendants advertised their ointment as
 "KarsoteVapour Rub". It was held that the defendants had
 infringed the registered marks. Lord Radcliffe said: "... a
 mark is infringed by another trader if, even without using the
 whole of it upon or in connection with his goods, he uses one
 or more of its essential features". 10. Mr Sen stressed the point that the words Ambal and
 Andal had distinct meanings. Ambal is the consort of Lard
 Siva and Andal is the consort of Ranganatha. He said that in
 view of the distinct ideas conveyed by the two words a mere
 accidental phonetic resemblance could not lead to confusion.
 In this connection he relied on Venkateswaran Law of Trade
 and Merchandise Marks, 1963 Ed., p. 214, Kerly Law of
 Trade marks and Trade Names, 9th Edn., p. 465, Article
 852and the decision Application by Thomas A. Smith Ltd., to
 Register a trade mark. [1913 30 RPC 363] In that case
 Neville, J., held that the words "limit" and "summit" were
 words in common use, each conveying a distinctly' definite
 idea; that there was no possibility of any one being deceived
 by the two marks; and there was no ground for refusing
 registration. Mr Sen's argument loses sight of the realities of
 the case. The Hindus in the south of India may be well aware
 that the words Ambal and Andal represent the names of two
 distinct Goddesses. But the respondent's customers are not
 confined to Hindus alone. Many of their customers are
 Charistians, Parsees, Muslims and persons of other religious
 denominations. Moreover, their business is not confined to
 south of India. The customers who are not Hindus or who do
 not belong to the south of India may not know the difference
 between the words Andal and Ambal. The words have no
 direct reference to the character and quality of snuff. The
 customers who use the respondent's goods will have a
 recollection that they are known by the word Ambal. They
 may also have a vague recollection of the portrait of a benign Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 46 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 goddess used in connection with the mark. They are not likely
 to remember the fine distinctions between a Vaishnavite
 goddess and a Shivaite deity." (Emphasis supplied) 39. The Supreme Court, therefore, upheld the challenge laid by
 SAC to the trade mark of KRKC. 40. The second important judgment, also in 1969, is F. Hoffmann-
 La Roche & Co. Ltd v. Geoffrey Manners & Co. Pvt Ltd 23. On the
 aspect of phonetic similarity, this judgment is particularly significant.
 Without intricately going into the facts, it may be noted that the
 controversy, before the Supreme Court, in this case, was whether the
 word "Dropovit" was deceptively similar to the word "Protovit". In
 this context, the Supreme Court observed, in para 6 of the report, that
 it was not necessary that there should be intent to deceive or cause
 confusion; the probability thereof was sufficient. The Supreme Court,
 thereafter, relied on the following passage, from the judgment of Lord
 Denning in Parker-Knoll Ltd v. Knoll International Ltd 24, to
 highlight the distinction between "deception" and "causing
 confusion": 41. On the test to be applied while comparing the two word marks,
 the Supreme Court relied, with approval, on the enunciation of the law
 in In re. Pianotist Application21, already quoted supra. Thereafter,
 the Supreme Court went on to observe, in para 7 of the report, thus,
 inter alia in the matter of phonetic similarity between word marks: It is also important that the marks must be compared as
 wholes. It is not right to take a portion of the word and say
 that because that portion of the word differs from the
 corresponding portion of the word in the other case there is
 no sufficient, similarity to cause confusion. The true test is
 whether the totality of the proposed trade mark is such that it
 is likely to cause deception or confusion or mistake in the
 minds of persons accustomed to the existing trade mark. Thus
 in Lavroma case [ Tokalon Ltd. v. Davidson & Co. , 32 RPC
 at 133 at 136] Lord Johnston said: (Emphasis supplied) 42. The Supreme Court went on to hold that the words "Dropovit"
 and "Protovit" were not phonetically similar or confusing. In para 9
 of the report, the Supreme Court went on to note the statement, made
 by the respondents before it (the manufacturer of "Dropovit") to the
 effect that it was agreeable the Registrar of Trade Marks limiting the
 trade mark "Dropovit" to medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations
 and substances containing principally vitamins. In view of this
 concession, the Supreme Court went on to hold, in para 9 of the
 report, thus: Therefore, even an average customer would know that in
 respect of Vitamin preparations the word "Vit" occurs in
 large number of trade marks and because of this he would
 naturally be on his guard and take special care against
 making a mistake. In this connection the provisions of the
 Drug Rules, 1945 are also relevant. Under Rule 61(2) vitamin
 preparations would be covered by Item 5 in Schedule C(1) to
 the Rules and a licence would be required to stock such
 vitamin preparations and to sell them retail. The question of
 confuse must hence be determined on the basis that the goods
 with one of the two rival trade marks would be sold only by
 such a licensed dealer and would not be available in any
 other shop. The fact that the vendor would be licensed dealer
 reduces the possibility of confusion to a considerable extent." (Emphasis supplied) 43. Skipping three decades, like Hardy's Henchard, we halt, now,
 at the judgment of three Hon'ble judges of the Supreme Court in
 Cadila Health Care Ltd6. The respondent Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
 (hereinafter referred to as "CPL") was manufacturing and selling a
 medicine, for treatment of falciparum malaria, under the brand name
 "Falcitab". This, alleged the appellant Cadila Health Care Ltd.
 (hereinafter referred to as "CHCL"), was deceptively similar to the
 drug, also for treatment of falciparum malaria, being sold by it under
 its brand name "Falcigo", in respect of which it claimed prior user.
 CPL contended, before the Supreme Court, that the prefix "Falci"
 identified the drug as meant for the treatment of falciparum malaria,
 and that such usage of prefixes was common in the pharmaceutical
 trade. It was also contended that, as the products in question were Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 50 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 Schedule L drugs, they could be sold only to hospitals and clinics,
 thereby minimising the possibility of confusion or deception. The
 application for interim injunction, filed by CHCL, was dismissed by
 the learned Trial Court, and the appeal, preferred there against, was
 also dismissed by the High Court, which held that there was no
 likelihood of confusion being caused to an ongoing customer in
 respect of the disputed marks or of the passing off of one product for
 the other. The application for interlocutory injunction thus travelled
 to the Supreme Court, at the instance of CHCL. 44. The Supreme Court, at the outset, in para 10 of the report,
 delineated the contours of passing off actions, in the following words: (Emphasis supplied) 45. The Supreme Court, thereafter, proceeded to refer to, and rely
 upon, in its earlier decisions in National Sewing Thread Co. Ltd18,
 Corn Products Refining Co.19, Amritdhara Pharmacy20, Durga Dutt
 Sharma17 and F. Hoffmann-La Roche23 and, observing that the
 degree of scrutiny while examining claims of infringement and
 passing off, in cases of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations,
 was much higher, in view of the obvious element of public interest
 involved, went on to hold, in para 27 of the report, as under: 46. Without finally pronouncing on the aspect of deceptive
 similarity, qua the products before it, the Supreme Court concluded its
 judgment by postulating the following tests, to be applied while
 examining the claim of deceptive similarity in an action for passing
 off on the basis of unregistered trade marks (in para 35 of the report): These tests, it may be noted, have been regarded as definitive
 principles, to be followed while examining the issue of deceptive
 similarity, not only in passing off actions but also in infringement
 actions, for registered as well as unregistered trade marks, in several
 decisions rendered thereafter. 47. In Mahendra & Mahendra Paper Mills Ltd v. Mahindra &
 Mahindra Ltd 25, the respondent Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.
 (hereinafter referred to as "MML") sued the appellant Mahendra &
 Mahendra Paper Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "MMP"),
 seeking an order of permanent restraint, against MMP, from using, in
 any manner as a part of its corporate name or trading style the words 25 (2002) 2 SCC 147 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 53 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 "Mahendra & Mahendra", or any word which was deceptively similar
 to "Mahindra" or "Mahindra & Mahindra". MML claim that the word
 "Mahindra" was its registered trade mark, in respect of goods in Class
 12, and was the dominant and significant part of the trade mark of the
 respondent and other companies of its group, which were engaged in
 industrial and trading activities in multiple fields such as
 manufacturing of cars, jeeps, tractors, farming equipment, chemicals,
 hotels, real estate, etc. The name and trade mark "Mahindra",
 contended MML, was indelibly associated with its products and
 services. The word "Mahendra", it was contended, was phonetically,
 visually and structurally almost identical to the word "Mahindra".
 This, it was alleged, was done in order to defraud the public into
 believing that MMP was an associate of MML, and, thereby, to pass
 off its business and products as those of MML and, therefore,
 amounted to trading on the goodwill and reputation of MML. As
 against this, MMP contended that "Mahendra & Mahendra" was a
 continuation of their business name, in use since 1974 for various
 businesses. Mahendra, contended MMP, was a household name in
 Gujarat. It was also pointed out that the products of MMP were in no
 way similar to the products or businesses of MML and that there was
 no overlap between the activities of the two companies. 48. The learned Single Judge of the High Court granted ad interim
 injunction, as sought by MML. The appeal, thereagainst, at the
 instance of MMP, was dismissed by the Division Bench, resulting in
 MMP approaching the Supreme Court. 49. Before the Supreme Court, MMP contended that the action
 brought against it by MML was one of passing off, and not of
 infringement and, therefore, required, for its sustenance, similarity of
 the goods manufactured or sold by the parties, in the absence whereof
 there could be no question of deception or confusion amongst
 consumers. 50. In para 16 of its report, the Supreme Court identified the test to
 be applied, in the matter of likelihood of confusion or deception, thus: (Emphasis supplied) 51. In paras 22 and 23 of the report, the Supreme Court went on to
 cite, approvingly, the judgments of the High Court of Allahabad in Bata India Ltd v. Pyare Lal & Co. 26 and the High Court of Bombay
 in Kirloskar Diesel Recon (P) Ltd v. Kirloskar Proprietary Ltd 27. In
 Bata India Ltd26, the High Court, dealing with the defence of the 26 AIR 1985 All 242 27 AIR 1996 Bom 149 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 55 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 defendant Pyare Lal & Co., against an action of passing off brought
 by the plaintiff Bata India Ltd (hereinafter referred to as "Bata"), to
 the effect that Bata was not manufacturing foam, which was the
 product manufactured by the defendant, held that this distinction was
 "not enough to hold that there could be no passing off action in
 respect of the user of the name 'Bata' to the products marketed by the
 defendants". To so hold, the High Court observed that "the name
 'Bata' was well known in the market and the user of such an name
 (was) likely to cause not only deception in the mind of an ordinary
 customer but... also cause injury to the plaintiff Company". The mere
 use, by the defendant, of the name or Mark 'Bata', it was held, was
 "indicative of their intent". The passages, from Kirloskar Diesel
 Recon27, which were approved by the Supreme Court in Mahendra &
 Mahendra Paper Mills25 highlight the aspect of balance of
 convenience, in a case where the trade mark of the plaintiff is of
 considerable vintage, and the defendant is a comparatively new player
 in the field, and deserve to be reproduced, thus: (Emphasis supplied) 52. The Supreme Court, applying the above principles to the facts
 before it, held that as MML had been using the words "Mahindra" and
 "Mahindra & Mahindra" for over five decades, these names had
 acquired distinctiveness and secondary meaning in business and trade Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 57 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 circles, and persons had come to associate the name "Mahindra" with
 a certain standard of goods and services. Any attempt, by another
 person, to use the same name in business and trade circles, it was held,
 was fraught with the probability of creating an impression of a
 connection with MML, which could prejudicially affect MML's
 business and trading activities. In these circumstances, the Supreme
 Court deemed it appropriate not to interfere with the decision, of the
 learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court of
 Bombay, to grant interlocutory injunction, directing maintenance of
 status quo. 53. The principles governing grant of interlocutory injunction,
 where passing off is alleged, stand tellingly underscored in Laxmikant
 V. Patel v. Chetanbhai Shah28. The plaintiff Laxmikant V. Patel (hereinafter referred to as "LVP") was running a colour lab and
 studio, in Ahmedabad, since 1982, in the name and style of
 "Muktajivan Colour Lab and Studio". The first defendant Chetanbhai
 Shah (hereinafter referred to as "Chetanbhai") was proposing to
 commence a similar business, by adopting the name and style of
 "Muktajivan Colour Lab and Studio". LVP filed a suit, alleging
 passing off, by Chetanbhai, of his business as that of LVP, and sought
 permanent preventive injunction, as well as ad interim injunction in
 the interregnum. LVP lost in its attempt to obtain interim injunction,
 both before the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court. The
 Supreme Court, seized with the matter in appeal, observed, at the
 outset, that it was proceeding on the premise that LVP's business was 28 (2002) 3 SCC 65 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 58 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 running since 1995 at least and that the business of Chetanbhai come
 into existence on or a little before the institution of the suit by LVP.
 The "principal issue determinative of the grant of temporary
 injunction" was identified, in para 7 of the report, as "whether the
 business of the plaintiff run in a tradename of which 'Muktajivan' is a
 part had come into existence prior to commencement of its user by the
 defendant and whether it had acquired the goodwill created property
 in the plaintiff so as to restrain the use of the word "Muktajivan" in
 the business name of a similar trade by a competitor i.e. the
 defendants". The ingredients of an action for passing off, and the
 rationale behind the grant of injunction in such cases were briefly
 delineated, in para 8 of the report, thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 The raison d' etre of passing off, as an actionable tort was, in
 somewhat greater detail, explained thus, in paras 10 to 13 of the
 report: 12. In Oertli v. Bowman [1957 RPC 388 (CA)] (at p. 397)
 the gist of passing-off action was defined by stating that it
 was essential to the success of any claim to passing-off based
 on the use of given mark or get-up that the plaintiff should be
 able to show that the disputed mark or get-up has become by
 user in the country distinctive of the plaintiff's goods so that
 the use in relation to any goods of the kind dealt in by the
 plaintiff of that mark or get-up will be understood by the
 trade and the public in that country as meaning that the
 goods are the plaintiff's goods. It is in the nature of
 acquisition of a quasi-proprietary right to the exclusive use of
 the mark or get-up in relation to goods of that kind because of
 the plaintiff having used or made it known that the mark or
 get-up has relation to his goods. Such right is invaded by
 anyone using the same or some deceptively similar mark, get-
 up or name in relation to goods not of plaintiff. The three
 elements of passing-off action are the reputation of goods,
 possibility of deception and likelihood of damages to the
 plaintiff. In our opinion, the same principle, which applies to
 trade mark, is applicable to trade name. 13. In an action for passing-off it is usual, rather essential,
 to seek an injunction, temporary or ad interim. The principles
 for the grant of such injunction are the same as in the case of
 any other action against injury complained of. The plaintiff
 must prove a prima facie case, availability of balance of
 convenience in his favour and his suffering an irreparable
 injury in the absence of grant of injunction. According to
 Kerly (ibid, para 16.16) passing-off cases are often cases of
 deliberate and intentional misrepresentation, but it is well
 settled that fraud is not a necessary element of the right of
 action, and the absence of an intention to deceive is not a
 defence, though proof of fraudulent intention may materially
 assist a plaintiff in establishing probability of deception.
 Christopher Wadlowin Law of Passing-Off (1995Edn., at p.
 3.06) states that the plaintiff does not have to prove actual
 damage in order to succeed in an action for passing-off.
 Likelihood of damage is sufficient. The same learned author
 states that the defendant's state of mind is wholly irrelevant to
 the existence of the cause of action for passing-off (ibid,
 paras 4.20 and 7.15). As to how the injunction granted by the
 court would shape depends on the facts and circumstances of
 each case. Where a defendant has imitated or adopted the
 plaintiff's distinctive trade mark or business name, the order Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 61 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 may be an absolute injunction that he would not use or carry
 on business under that name (Kerly, ibid, para 16.97)." (Emphasis supplied) 54. The Supreme Court went on to apply these principles to the
 facts before it, thus (in para 14 of the report): 55. In Satyam Infoway Ltd16, the Supreme Court was seized with a
 case of alleged infringement of trade mark in a domain name, adopted
 by the respondents before it. This decision authoritatively held such
 action to be maintainable; for the purposes of the present dispute,
 however, it is not necessary to enter into that aspect of the matter.
 Suffice it to state that the appellant before the Supreme Court, Satyam
 Infoway Ltd (hereinafter referred to as "SIL") had registered several
 domain names, such as www.sifynet, www.sifymall.com and
 www.sifyrealestate.com, in June 1999, with the Internet Corporation
 for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) and the World Intellectual
 Property Organisation (WIPO), and claimed a wide reputation and
 goodwill in the name "Sify", which it claimed to have invented. The
 respondent before the Supreme Court, Siffynet Solutions (P) Ltd
 (hereinafter referred to as "SSPL") was engaged in the business of
 Internet marketing, using the domain names www.siffynet.net and
 www.siffynet.com, since June, 2021. SIL sought an injunction, against
 SSPL, from using the name "Siffy" as part of its domain names.
 Injunction, as sought, was granted by the learned Trial Court, but was
 disallowed by the High Court in appeal, inter alia on the ground that
 the finding, of the learned Trial Court, that SIL had earned a reputation
 and goodwill in respect of the domain name "Sify" was not based on a
 consideration of the necessary factors and that the documents on record Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 63 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 showed, on the other hand, that the business of SSPL was different
 from that of SIL, with no similarity between them, thereby obviating
 the possibility of any confusion or deception in the minds of
 customers. Paras 13 to 15 of the report, in the judgment of the
 Supreme Court, set out, precisely, the three elements governing an
 action for passing off, thus: 15. The third element of a passing-off action is loss or the
 likelihood of it." The Supreme Court re-emphasised the existence of prior goodwill, as
 an indispensable ingredient, for a successful action for passing off, in
 para 26 of the report, thus: (Emphasis supplied) 56. On merits, the Supreme Court went on to rule in favour of SIL
 thus (in paras 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the report): was given extensive coverage in leading national newspapers.
 The appellant has brought on record the stringent conditions
 and deposit of a large fee for having a trade name included in
 the NASDAQ international market. The appellant has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 65 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 complied with the conditions for listing. The appellant has
 claimed that its shares are since 1999 actively traded in on a
 daily basis on NASDAQ. It is also claimed that the appellant
 has widely used the word Sify as a trade name/domain name
 for its software business and services. The appellant's website
 www.sify.com is claimed to be a comprehensive internet site
 with a gamut of subjects to choose from. It has brought out
 brochures and issued advertisements offering services in the
 internet under the name "Sify". It has submitted its sale
 figures and expenses incurred on advertisement and market
 promotion of its business under the trade name Sify. It is also
 claimed that apart from the fact that the appellant is
 popularly known as Sify, it has also applied for registration of
 more than 40 trade marks with the prefix Sify under the Trade
 and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (since replaced by the Trade Marks Act, 1999 ). 28. In support of its claim of goodwill in respect of the
 name of "Sify", the appellant had brought on record press
 clippings of articles/newspapers in which the appellant has
 been referred to as "Sify". For example, a news item
 published in The Hindu on 5-5-2000 talks of "Sify plans of
 internet gateways". Another article published in The Business
 Standard on 11-5-2000 says "Sify chief sees strong dotcom
 valuations rising". There are several other publications filed
 along with the plaint all of which show that the appellant was
 referred to as "Sify". That the listing of the appellant with
 NASDAQ in 1999 under the trade name "Sify" was featured
 on several newspapers has been established by copies of the
 news items. Documents have also been produced to show that
 the appellant had been awarded prizes in recognition of
 achievements under the trade name "Sify". For example, the
 Golden Web Award for the year 2000 was awarded to the
 appellant's corporate site www.sifycorp.com. A number of
 advertisements in connection with "e-market services from
 Sify", "Messaging solutions from Sify" have also been filed.
 It is unfortunate that none of these documents were even
 noticed by the High Court. We have, therefore, been
 constrained to appreciate the evidence and on doing so, we
 have reached, at least prima facie conclusion that the
 appellant has been able to establish the goodwill and
 reputation claimed by it in connection with the trade name
 "Sify". 29. Apart from the close visual similarity between "Sify"
 and "Siffy", there is phonetic similarity between the two
 names. The addition of "net" to "Siffy" does not detract from
 this similarity. ***** 31. What is also important is that the respondent,
 admittedly, adopted the mark after the appellant. The
 appellant is the prior user and has the right to debar the
 respondent from eating into the goodwill it may have built up
 in connection with the name. 32. Another facet of passing off is the likelihood of
 confusion with possible injury to the public and consequential
 loss to the appellant. The similarity in the name may lead an
 unwary user of the internet of average intelligence and
 imperfect recollection to assume a business connection
 between the two. Such user may, while trying to access the
 information or services provided by the appellant, put in that
 extra 'f' and be disappointed with the result. Documents have
 been filed by the respondent directed at establishing that the
 appellant's name Sify was similar to other domain names such
 as Scifinet, Scifi.com, etc. The exercise has been undertaken
 by the respondent presumably to show that the word "Sify" is
 not an original word and that several marks which were
 phonetically similar to the appellant's trade name are already
 registered. We are not prepared to deny the appellant's claim
 merely on the aforesaid basis. For one, none of the alleged
 previous registrants are before us. For another, the word "sci-
 fi" is an abbreviation of "science fiction" and is phonetically
 dissimilar to the word Sify. (See Collins Dictionary of the
 English Language.) 33. The respondent then says that confusion is unlikely
 because they operate in different fields. According to the
 respondent its business is limited to network marketing unlike
 the appellant which carries on the business of software
 development, software solution and connected activities. The
 respondent's assertion is factually incorrect and legally
 untenable. A domain name is accessible by all internet users
 and the need to maintain an exclusive symbol for such access
 is crucial as we have earlier noted. Therefore a deceptively
 similar domain name may not only lead to a confusion of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 67 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 source but the receipt of unsought-for services. Besides the
 appellant has brought on record printouts of the respondent's
 website in which it has advertised itself as providing inter
 alia software solution, integrating and management solutions
 and software development covering the same field as the
 appellant. To take a specific example, the respondent's
 brochure explicitly offers intranet and extranet solutions
 which are also explicitly offered by the appellant. There is
 clearly an overlap of identical or similar services. It may be
 difficult for the appellant to prove actual loss having regard
 to the nature of the service and the means of access but the
 possibility of loss in the form of diverted customers is more
 than reasonably probable. 34. The last question is, where does the balance of
 convenience lie? Given the nature of the business, it is
 necessary to maintain the exclusive identity which a domain
 name requires. In other words, either "Sify" or "Siffy" must
 go. Apart from being the prior user, the appellant has adduced
 sufficient evidence to show that the public associates the trade
 name SIFY with the appellant. The respondent on the other
 hand has produced little proof to establish the averments in
 support of its case that it had a membership of 50,000. We are
 unable to hold, while not commenting on the authenticity of
 the bills relied on by the respondent, as the High Court has
 done, that the bills by themselves show that the respondent
 "has been carrying on conferences at different places and
 enrolling members who would be transacting with them in the
 business and like that they have enrolled about 50,000
 members already". Similarly, several bills raised in the name
 of the respondent in respect of different items do not by
 themselves establish that the members of the public have
 come to associate the word "Siffy" only with the respondent.
 Weighed in the balance of comparative hardship, it is difficult
 to hold that the respondent would suffer any such loss as the
 appellant would unless an injunction is granted. The
 respondent can carry on its business and inform its members
 of the change of name. We are conscious of the fact that the
 grant of an interlocutory order may disrupt the respondent's
 business. But that cannot be seen as an argument which
 should deter us from granting relief to the appellant to which
 we are otherwise satisfied it is entitled. 35. The High Court's finding that no prejudice would be
 caused to the appellant because it had another domain name
 was a consideration which might have been relevant if there
 was a case of bona fide concurrent use and where the right to
 use was coequal. The doubtful explanation given by the
 respondent for the choice of the word "Siffy" coupled with
 the reputation of the appellant can rationally lead us to the
 conclusion that the respondent was seeking to cash in on the
 appellant's reputation as a provider of service on the internet.
 In view of our findings albeit prima facie on the dishonest
 adoption of the appellant's trade name by the respondent, the
 investments made by the appellant in connection with the
 trade name, and the public association of the trade name Sify
 with the appellant, the appellant is entitled to the relief it
 claims. A different conclusion may be arrived at if evidence
 to the contrary is adduced at the trial. But at this stage and on
 the material before the Court, we are of the view that the
 conclusion of the High Court to the contrary was
 unwarranted." (Emphasis supplied) 57. Apart from the guiding principles regarding passing off,
 enunciated in the afore extracted passages - to which more detailed
 allusion would follow hereinafter - the judgment in Satyam Infoway
 Ltd16 instructively pronounces on two principles, which essentially
 stem from equity, in such cases; firstly, that, though grant of an
 interlocutory order may disrupt the business of the defendant, grant of
 relief cannot be inhibited on that consideration, if the plaintiff is
 otherwise found to be entitled to relief and, secondly, that the court
 seized with the issue of whether to grant, or not grant, interlocutory
 injunction, should not be concerned, more than necessary, with the
 possibility of a different conclusion emerging consequent to trial. 58. The next decision that I propose to consider, Khoday
 Distilleries Ltd v. Scotch Whisky Association29 , is somewhat peculiar,
 as it did not involve competing trade marks, but involved,
 nevertheless, an allegation of passing off. Khoday Distilleries
 Limited (hereinafter referred to as "KDL") manufactured "Peter Scot" 59. Inasmuch as the nature of the controversy, before the Supreme
 Court, was fundamentally different from that in the present
 proceedings, it is not necessary to advert to the facts, in this decision,
 in any great detail. The Supreme Court, however, held, in para 42 of
 the report, that the issue of whether a misrepresentation was, or was
 not, made, was a question of fact, which depended on many factors.
 Thereafter, in para 61 of the report, the Supreme Court held that a
 cause of action could be brought by those who (i) owned or had a
 sufficient proprietary interest in the requisite goodwill, provided (ii)
 the goodwill so owned was really likely to be damaged by the alleged
 misrepresentation. Passing off, therefore, is essentially a tort against 29 (2008) 10 SCC 723 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 70 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 goodwill, inhering in goods. In adjudicating on the issue before it, the
 Supreme Court placed reliance, approvingly, on the judgment of the
 High Court of Bombay in Carew Phipson Ltd v. Deejay Distilleries
 (P) Ltd 30 and of this Court in Diageo North America, Inc. v. Shiva
 Distilleries Ltd 31. Para 6 of the report in Carew Phipson30, which
 was cited by the Supreme Court, read thus: (Emphasis supplied)

 In Diageo North America31, this Court, in a somewhat similar vein,
 observed as under, while comparing the marks "SMIRNOFF" and
 "BRISNOFF" when used in respect of vodka: (Italics and underscoring supplied) 60. Echoing the views expressed by the High Court of Bombay by
 this Court in the afore cited decisions, the Supreme Court, in paras 75
 to 77 and 82 of the report in Khoday Distilleries29, held as under: ***** 82. But then we are concerned with the class of buyer who
 is supposed to know the value of money, the quality and
 content of Scotch whisky. They are supposed to be aware of
 the difference of the process of manufacture, the place of
 manufacture and its origin. Respondent 3, the learned Single
 Judge as also the Division Bench of the High Court,
 therefore, failed to notice the distinction, which is real and
 otherwise borne out from the precedents operating in the
 field. (See Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names,
 13th Edn., p. 600.)" which affidavit was filed by the appellant. Further concession
 is already recorded above. 26.5. NANDINI/NANDHINI is a generic term, it represents the
 name of goddess and a cow in Hindu mythology. It is not an
 invented or coined word of the respondent. 26.6. The nature and style of the business of the appellant
 and the respondent are altogether different. Whereas the
 respondent is a Cooperative Federation of Milk Producers of
 Karnataka and is producing and selling milk and milk
 products under the mark "NANDINI", the business of the
 appellant is that of running restaurants and the registration
 of mark "NANDHINI" as sought by the appellant is in respect
 of various foodstuffs sold by it in its restaurants. 26.7. Though there is a phonetic similarity insofar as the
 words NANDHINI/NANDINI are concerned, the trade mark with
 logo adopted by the two parties are altogether different. The
 manner in which the appellant has written NANDHINI as its
 mark is totally different from the style adopted by the
 respondent for its mark "NANDINI". Further, the appellant
 has used and added the word "Deluxe" and, thus, its mark is
 "NANDHINI DELUXE". It is followed by the words "the real
 spice of life". There is device of lamp with the word
 "NANDHINI". In contrast, the respondent has used only one
 word, namely, NANDINI which is not prefixed or suffixed by
 any word. In its mark "cow" as a logo is used beneath which
 the word NANDINI is written, it is encircled by egg shape
 circle. A bare perusal of the two marks would show that there Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 75 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 is hardly any similarity of the appellant's mark with that of
 the respondent when these marks are seen in totality. 27. When we examine the matter keeping in mind the
 aforesaid salient features, it is difficult to sustain the
 conclusion of IPAB in its order dated 4-10-2011 as well as in
 the impugned order of the High Court that the mark adopted
 by the appellant will cause any confusion in the mind of
 consumers, what to talk of deception. We do not find that the
 two marks are deceptively similar." (Italics and underscoring supplied) 64. The most recent judgment, to which I propose to allude, is Wockhardt Ltd v. Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd 32. Interim
 injunction was, in this case, sought solely on the allegation of passing
 off. Wockhardt was the registered holder of the trade mark
 "CHYMORAL" and "CHYMORAL FORTE", which are drugs
 administered after surgery, to treat postsurgical wounds. The
 respondent Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd (hereinafter referred to as
 "Torrent") claimed that Wockhardt was passing off its goods as those
 of Torrent and, accordingly, sued Wockhardt. The High Court held in
 favour of Torrent, holding that the triple test for passing off, i.e.
 establishment of reputation, misrepresentation as understood in law
 and likelihood of injury or damage caused to Torrent, had been found
 to exist. The Supreme Court, in appeal, after extracting the principles
 enunciated in its earlier decisions in Laxmikant V. Patel28 and Satyam
 Infoway Ltd16, regarding the ingredients of passing off, upheld the
 decision of the High Court. The principles that emerge 32 (2018) 18 SCC 346 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 76 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 65. From the aforenoted decisions, the following clear principles
 emerge: The Court would have to decide, on a comparison of the
 two marks, and the parts thereof which are phonetically
 similar, as to whether such phonetic similarity is likely,
 considering all other circumstances, to confuse or
 deceive a purchaser of average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection, always bearing in mind the nature of the
 goods, and the degree of circumspection which would be
 expected of the purchasers who would purchase such
 goods. (i) The Court is required to examine whether the
 essential features of the plaintiff's mark are to be found 59 Ref. F. Hoffmann-La Roche and Cadila Health Care 60 Ref. K R Krishna Chettiar and Cadila Health Care 61 Ref. Nandhini Deluxe Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 85 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 in the mark of the defendant. Identification of the
 essential features is a question of fact, left to the
 discretion of the Court. 62 (j) No objective standards are possible, regarding the
 degree of similarity which is likely to cause deception. It
 has to be seen from the viewpoint of the purchasers of the
 goods.63 (k) The test to be applied would depend on the facts of
 the case. Precedents are valuable only to the extent they
 specify tests for application, and not on facts.64 (l) On the issue of deceptive similarity, and especially
 with respect to the aspect of phonetic similarity, English
 cases are not of relevance. English cases are useful only
 to the extent they aid in understanding the essential
 features of trade mark law. 65 The tests for deceptive
 similarity, which apply in other jurisdictions, may not
 always apply in India. 66 (xii) That the application of the aforesaid tests, in any given
 case, is purely a question of fact, involving exercise of judicial
 discretion by the Court, and that no objective or preset
 standards could be stipulated in that regard, may be apparent
 from the fact that, applying these tests, 62 Ref. Amritdhara Pharmacy, Durga Dutt Sharma and Cadila Health Care 63 Ref. Amritdhara Pharmacy, Durga Dutt Sharma and Cadila Health Care 64 Ref. Khoday Distilleries, Amritdhara Pharmacy and Cadila Health Care 65 Ref. Corn Products Refining Co. and Cadila Health Care 66 Ref. Khoday Distilleries Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 86 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 (a) "Sify" and "Siffy" were held to be phonetically
 and visually similar, with the addition of the suffix "net"
 after "Siffy" being found to be insufficient to tide over
 the similarity67, (b) "Gluvita" and "Glucovita" were found to be
 phonetically similar, with the syllable "co" in the latter
 name being regarded as insignificant 68, (c) "Amritdhara" and "Lakshmandhara" were found to
 be deceptively similar 69, and (d) "Sri Ambal" was found to be phonetically similar
 to "Sri Andal"70, but (e) on an intricate and microscopic comparison of the
 competing words, it was held that "Protovit" and
 "Dropovit" were dissimilar, with no possibility of
 confusion. 71 (xiii) The likelihood of disruption of the business of the
 defendant cannot inhibit the Court from granting relief, where
 the plaintiff is otherwise found entitled thereto.72 The object of
 interlocutory injunction is protection of the plaintiff against
 injury by violation of its rights, for which damages would not
 be adequate compensation even were the plaintiff to ultimately
 succeed in the suit. The Court is required to balance this 67 Ref. Satyam Infoway 68 Ref. Corn Products Refining Co. Ref. Amritdhara Pharmacy 70 Ref. K R Krishna Chettiar 71 Ref.F. Hoffmann-La Roche 72 Ref. Satyam Infoway Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 87 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 consideration against the right of the defendant to protection
 from injury at being prevented from exercising its own legal
 rights for which, too, damages would not be an adequate
 compensation. The balance of convenience, in any given case,
 is to be asserted by balancing one consideration against the
 other.73 In doing so, the fact of whether the defendant has yet to
 commence its enterprise is a relevant consideration.73 "Balance
 of convenience", nevertheless, would be a relevant
 consideration whether the scales are evenly balanced, and not
 where, for example, the plaintiff has extensive business over
 decades and the defendant is a recent entrant with no proof of
 established business. Acquisition of secondary meaning in the
 trade mark of the plaintiff, over the course of time, is also,
 therefore, a relevant consideration.74

 On a prima facie application of these principles to the facts of the
 present case 66. We thus arrive at the stage of application of the above
 principles, to the facts and while doing so, the court is required to be
 mindful of the limited application of precedents, in such cases, on
 facts. The question of grant, or refusal, of interlocutory injunction, in
 cases of alleged infringement of passing off, is doubly discretionary in
 nature, involving exercise of discretion by the court at two stages;
 firstly, while arriving at a prima facie conclusion regarding the
 existence, or otherwise, of deceptive similarity and, secondly, at 73 Ref. Wander Ltd. v. Antox India Pvt. Ltd. 1990 Supp(1) SCC 727 and Mahendra & Mahendra
 Paper Mills 74 Ref. Kirloskar Diesel Recon and Mahendra & Mahendra Paper Mills Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 88 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 deciding whether, in view of its decision regarding the first issue, a
 case for grant of interlocutory injunction, applying the principles of
 existence of a prima facie case, balance of convenience and likelihood
 of irreparable loss to the plaintiff, were injunction not granted,
 counterbalanced with the loss which would ensue to the defendant in
 the alternative, exists or not. The value of precedents, where exercise
 of discretion is involved, is itself circumscribed; in cases such as the
 present, the court has to be doubly cautious while relying, on facts, or
 earlier precedents. The Supreme Court has underscored this position
 in its decisions in Khoday Distilleries29, Amritdhara Pharmacy20 and
 Cadila Health Care6, all of which hold that the value of precedents, in
 such cases, inhere in the tests enunciated therein, and not in the facts
 of the said decisions. 67. Equally, I am not required, at this stage, to enter into a detailed
 evaluation on the aspect of alleged infringement of passing off, as
 these are essentially allegations which involve disputed factual issues,
 and would have to be thrashed out during the course of trial. What is
 required to be examined is whether, viewed prima facie, a case for
 grant of interlocutory injunction exists, or does not exist. 68. Approaching the matter in this fashion, I am unable to convince
 myself that the plaintiff has succeeded in establishing a case for
 injunction, at the interlocutory stage, against the defendant from
 manufacturing or marketing its products using the trade mark

 . The only consideration, which may merit examination, in
 this regard, in my view, is the phonetic similarity between Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 89 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 "MUMMUM" and "MUMUM". That these two words/expressions
 are phonetically similar, rather identical, can hardly be gainsaid. The
 question is whether this factor, in the facts of the present case, would
 justify grant of interlocutory injunction, as sought by the plaintiff. 69. The answer, in my opinion, has necessarily to be in the
 negative, for the following reasons: The mark reads "The MUMUM Co ... very very very real". In
 my view, the words "The" and "Co ... very very very real" (ii) Visually and structurally, the marks of the plaintiff and
 the defendant are, at a plain glance, completely different, and
 cannot be regarded as confusing, or even similar, in the least.
 There is no similarity of colour, pictorial representation, font,
 lettering or even orientation. The plaintiff's trade mark is

 "MUMMUM", and the defendant's trade mark is .They
 are completely distinct. The two marks are so completely
 dissimilar, both in their whole composition as well as visually,
 that no case of infringement can be said to exist. (Besides, as
 pointed out by Mr. Sinha, the registered trade mark of the
 plaintiff is not "MUMMUM", but "MUM-MUM".) (iii) The customers, to whom the products of the plaintiff and
 the defendant cater, are also different. As has been correctly
 pointed out by Mr. Sinha, the products of the defendant cannot
 be consumed by infants, who constitute the customer base of
 the plaintiff, whether in the case of "MUMMUM" or
 "MUMMUM 2". "MUMMUM" is intended for consumption
 by infants below the age of 6 months, whereas "MUMMUM 2" No customer, howsoever average his intelligence, and
 howsoever imperfect his recollection may be, can be expected
 to purchase the plaintiff's products, instead of those of the
 defendant, or vice versa. (viii) On the extent to which the phonetic similarity between
 "MUMMUM" and "MUMUM" would determine the outcome
 in the present case, I am of the considered opinion that Para
 26.7 of the report in Nandhini Deluxe12 (which stands extracted
 in para 63 supra), prima facie, entirely covers the case of the
 parties before me, both in law and even on facts. The
 considerations, in the said passage, which compelled the
 Supreme Court to hold, despite the obvious phonetic similarity
 between the words "NANDHINI" and "NANDINI" were not
 deceptively similar, in my view, apply, mutatis mutandis, to the
 present case. I may also observe that Para 26.7 of the said
 report, in my opinion, constitute a definitive declaration of the
 law, within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution of
 India, in cases which may present similar predisposing
 circumstances, and it would be impermissible for this Court to
 seek to escape the application of the said passage, and the
 principles enunciated therein, by seeking to ferret out factual
 distinctions between the case before the Supreme Court, and the
 case before it. (ix) I am not inclined, therefore, to accept the submission, of
 Ms. Majumdar, that the products of the plaintiff and the
 defendant were allied, or similar. They are, in my view,
 completely distinct and different. They cater to different, and
 non-overlapping, consumer segments, with the consumers of
 the plaintiff's products being incapable of consuming the
 defendant's products, and the consumers of the defendant's
 products being, ordinarily, incapable of consuming the
 plaintiff's products. (That some adults may, with relish, enjoy
 infant milk substitutes, is another matter altogether.) (x) Ms. Majumdar is right in contending that, in such cases,
 the approach of the Court is required to be geared towards
 assessing whether there are similarities between the goods
 before it, and not dissimilarities. The only similarity, between
 the products of the plaintiff and the defendant is, however, in
 my view, the phonetic similarity between "MUMUM" and
 "MUMMUM". This single factor is, prima facie, too loose a
 peg, on which to hang the case of the plaintiff. (xi) Where the products of the plaintiff and the defendant are
 different, sold in different and distinct packagings, at different
 outlets, catering to different customers, as in the present case,
 prima facie, no question of "initial interest confusion" can exist. 70. Take a simple example, to examine whether, realistically, there
 is a possibility of the defendant's product being passed off as those of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 96 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 the plaintiff. Mrs X, the proud mother of a four year old daughter,
 wishes to purchase a snack, for her daughter, who is underweight, to
 consume. The snack should be healthy; she does not want a namkeen,
 in the classical sense. She has heard, in some party perhaps, that such
 products are available. During her child's toddling years, she has
 been feeding her the plaintiff's 'MUMMUM' (which, I hasten to add,
 may not be the reason for her child being underweight). She knows of
 the plaintiff's product. She walks into the shop and asks the shop
 assistant for a children's snack, which could be consumed by her four-
 year old. The shop assistant hands her a packet of one of the
 defendant's products. Is she likely, on seeing the logo on the packet,
 to connect it with the 'MUMMUM' which she had been feeding her
 child as an infant? At a plain glance, the answer has, prima facie, to
 be in the negative. Is she likely to confuse the defendant's product as
 having been manufactured by the plaintiff, or purchase the
 defendant's product because she believes it to have been
 manufactured by the plaintiff? The decision, if any, would have to be
 taken by her on viewing the mark on the defendant's packet. Merely
 because the mark contains the word "MUMUM", would one expect
 Mrs X to notice, solely, the said word, latch onto its phonetic
 similarity with "MUMMUM" and, therefore, regard the product of the
 defendant as having been manufactured by the plaintiff, not noticing
 the obvious dissimilarity, in all other respects, of the two marks?
 Given the essentially different nature of the products themselves, the
 answer has, prima facie, in my view, to be in the negative. If she
 purchases the defendant's product, she would do so solely on its own
 strength, and not because she believes it to be a product manufactured Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 97 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 by the plaintiff. The defendant's products cannot, therefore, in my
 view, be legitimately be regarded as capitalizing on the goodwill
 earned by the plaintiff, for their dissemination and sale. I cannot
 reasonably hold that the defendant is "passing off" its goods as those
 manufactured by the plaintiff. 71. Holistically seen, therefore, I am of the view that there is no
 such deceptive similarity, between the mark of the plaintiff and the
 mark of the defendant, as could make out a case either of infringement
 of passing off. I do not deem it necessary to burden this order, which
 is only prima facie in nature, addressing the prayer for interlocutory
 injunction, with any detailed analysis of all other considerations, to
 which my attention was drawn and which stand noted hereinabove,
 including (i) the extent to which difference in classification of the
 goods, under the schedule to the Trade Marks Rules would be
 determinative, (ii) the issue of whether a prior adopter can infringe a
 trade mark, the "distinctive character and repute", stated to be
 possessed by the plaintiff's trade mark, (iii) the conferment of rights
 over the word contained in a logo, consequent on registration of the
 logo, (iv) the import of the Infant Milk Substitutes Act on the
 controversy in the present case, or (v) the allegedly "descriptive"
 nature of the plaintiff's trade mark. All these issues are left open for
 argument and consideration, at a later, and appropriate, stage. 72. In substance, therefore, I am of the opinion that the plaintiff has
 not been able to make out a case for injuncting the defendant, during
 the pendency of the present suit, from manufacturing or marketing its Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 98 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35 products. The competing trademarks being completely distinct,
 visually and otherwise, the mere phonetic similarity between the
 words "MUMMUM" and "MUMUM" is, in my view, insufficient to
 make out a case of infringement. Given the nature of the products, the
 fact that they cater to different customer groups, and other factors
 highlighted hereinabove, I am not satisfied that, prima facie, a case for
 passing off can be said to exist, either. 73. I have also kept in mind, in this process, the consideration that
 the defendant is not a new entrant in the field, or an entity which is yet
 to commence the process of manufacture. The defendant has been
 marketing its product since long, and its product has been extensively
 advertised and is extensively sold both online and offline. At this
 stage, on the material that has been adduced, and the submissions that
 have been advanced, I am of the view that the balance of convenience
 would not justify bringing, to a halt, the business of the defendant, in
 respect of the allegedly infringing products. Conclusion 74. In view of the aforesaid discussion, no case, for grant of
 interlocutory injunction, against the defendants, as prayed in the
 present application, can be said to exist. 75. The application is, therefore, dismissed. 76. Needless to say, all observations in this order are intended only Signature Not Verified to decide the application for interlocutory injunction under Order 39 Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 99 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021
23:29:35
 Rules 1 and 2 of the CPC , as preferred by the plaintiff, and cannot be
 regarded as a final expression of opinion, by the Court, on the lis in the
 suit, which would have to be decided on a comprehensive evaluation of
 the evidence that may emerge during trial. C. HARI SHANKAR, J. th
 FEBRUARY 10 , 2021 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:SUNIL SINGH NEGI IA 18292/2019 in CS(COMM)720/2019 Page 100 of 100 Signing Date:12.02.2021 23:29:35