Dalveer Bhandari, J. 1. These appeals are directed against the judgment 

delivered by a Division Bench of High Court of Andhra Pradesh 

in Letter Patent Appeal Nos. 12 and 13 of 2001 on 15.06.2001. 2. Brief facts which have been given by the appellant are 

recapitulated as under. 3. The appellant is the sole proprietor of a firm carrying on 

business inter alia as manufacturers of and dealers in incense 2 sticks (agarbathis) in the name and style of Ashika Incense 

Incorporated at Bangalore. 4. The appellant started his business in the year 1988 and 

adopted the mark `Ashika's Eenadu'. According to the 

appellant the word `Eenadu' in Kannada language means `this 

land'. In Malayalam and Tamil language it conveys the same 

meaning. In Telugu language it means `today'. 5. In consonance with the above meaning the appellant 

devised an artistic label comprising a rectangular carton in 

bottle green background with sky-blue border and in the 

centre, in an oval tricolour, the word `Eenadu' is written. 6. According to the appellant, in the year 1993 he honestly 

and bona fidely adopted the trade mark `Eenadu' meaning `this 

land' in Kannada. In the said label the other expressions used 

are `Ashika's original' and the firm's logo printed in red against 

yellow background. The other panel of the carton contains the 

same description in Telugu besides the name and address of 

the appellant. The panel on one side of the carton mentions 3 the name, address, contents and another side contains 

`Eenadu' in Devnagari, Tamil and Malayalam. 7. The appellant applied for registration of trade mark on or 

about 10.02.1994 of the said label bearing application No. 

619177. The appellant made an application to the Registrar of 

the Trade Marks for a certificate under proviso to Section 45(1) of the Copyright Act, 1957. The Registrar issued a certificate 

on 7.3.1996. Thereafter, an application for registration for 

copyright was made by the appellant on 14.3.1997. 8. The appellant's product, incense sticks (agarbathies) 

were well received in the market and according to him, when 

he filed the appeal before this Court, his annual business was 

about rupees eleven crores per annum. 9. The respondent company, who was engaged in the 

business of publishing a newspaper in Telugu entitled as 

`Eenadu', served a cease and desist notice on the appellant 

which was replied by the appellant on 8.3.1995. The 

respondent company in the year 1999 filed a suit for 

infringement of copyrights and passing-off trade mark in the 4 Court of Second Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court, 

Hyderabad. The respondent company therein claimed that 

they have been in the business of publishing a newspaper, 

broadcasting, financing and developing a film city. 10. It was contended by the respondent company that the 

use of the word `Eenadu' by the appellant amounted to 

infringement of their copyright and passing-off in trade mark. According to the respondent company, the business of the 

appellant and the respondent company was different and there 

is no commonality or casual connection between the two 

businesses. 11. The appellant states that the word `Eenadu' is a well 

known and well understood word appearing in all the South 

Indian languages. It means `today' in Telugu. In Tamil, 

Malayalam and Kannada it means `this land'. Therefore, no 

absolute monopoly could either be claimed or vest in any 

single proprietor in respect of the entire spectrum of goods 

and/or services and there have been other traders and 

manufacturers who have been using the word `Eenadu' to 5 distinguish their merchandise from similar merchandise of 

others. 12. The appellant also asserted that in Hyderabad one co- operative bank exists in the name of `Eenadu Cooperative 

Bank Ltd.' and their services are advertised as `Eenadu 

Deposits', a shop also exists in Vijayawada by the name 

`Eenadu Men's Wear' and a film titled `Eenadu' in Malayalam 

and Telugu was produced some time over a decade back. The 

appellant contended that detergent powder, playing cards, hair 

oil, coffee powder, tea powder, papad etc. are being sold with 

the mark `Eenadu'. 13. The Second Additional Chief Judge, City Civil Court, 

Hyderabad on 24.11.1999 had granted an ex-parte ad interim 

injunction restraining the appellant from using the expression 

`Eenadu' and the same was confirmed on 27.12.1999. Thereafter, the appellant, aggrieved by the said order, moved 

the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad. The High 

Court suspended the interim injunction. The High Court 

permitted the appellant to dispose off their finished products 6 to the tune of Rs.1 crore and also permitted the appellant to 

produce goods that were in the process of manufacture to the 

tune of Rs. 78 lakhs. 14. Meanwhile, the trial court on 24.7.2000 partially decreed 

the suit of the respondent company. The appellant was not 

injuncted from using the words `Eenadu' in the entire country 

other than in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 15. The appellant, aggrieved by the order of the City Civil 

Judge filed an appeal before the High Court of Andhra 

Pradesh. The respondent company also filed an appeal 

against the order of City Civil Judge praying that the order of 

injunction to be made absolute and not be confined to the 

State of Andhra Pradesh. The learned Single Judge disposed 

of both the appeals by a common judgment/order dated 

29.12.2000. The appeal filed by the respondent company was 

dismissed and the appeal filed by the appellant was allowed. 16. Aggrieved by the said order of the learned Single Judge, 

the respondent company filed Letters Patent Appeals before 7 the Division Bench of the High Court. The High Court vide 

impugned order allowed its appeals, decreeing the O.S. No.555 

of 1999. 17. The appellant also aggrieved by the impugned judgment 

filed appeals and submitted that the courts below were not 

justified in granting relief which was not specifically prayed for 

in the plaint. The appellant further submitted that the High 

Court erred in holding that the copyrights of the respondent 

company were infringed in the absence of a prayer for 

infringement of copyrights. According to the appellant the 

Division Bench of the High Court erred in holding that they 

were passing-off the copyrights when the Copyright Act, 1957 does not provide for such a remedy. 18. The appellant also submitted that the courts below have 

not properly appreciated the distinction between the existence 

of a copyright and its infringement. 19. According to the appellants, the respondent company 

was aware of the appellant's business since at least 27.2.1995 8 and there has been a gross delay in filing of the suit and 

because of inordinate delay in approaching the court, the 

respondent company is not entitled to any relief. 20. The appellant further submitted that whether an action 

for passing-off could be maintained and injunction granted 

when a mark is used consisting of the word `Eenadu', which is 

a common word. The word `Eenadu' literally means `Today' in 

Telugu and `this land/our land' in Kannada, Tamil and 

Malayalam. 21. The appellant contended that the businesses of the 

appellant and the respondent company are entirely different 

and there is no question of passing-off of the goods of the 

appellant as that of the respondent company. 22. The respondent company denied all the averments of the 

appellant and submitted the following propositions. 1. The essence of an action of passing-off is an attack 

 on or dilution or benefitting from the goodwill and 

 reputation of another person. 2. If such goodwill or reputation arises out of the use 

 of a name in respect of a particular product and the 

 goodwill and reputation is restricted only to such 

 product and unknown outside such product then 

 the use of such name by another person with 

 respect to a totally different product would not 

 affect the goodwill and reputation so as to 

 constitute an action of passing-off 3. If, however, the goodwill and reputation is 

 sufficiently wide and the name is associated with 

 the source in a more general way rather than 

 restricted only to a given product then the use of 

 such name by another trader for even a totally 

 different product could amount to a passing-off. 4. The exception to the three above propositions would 

 be if such name is a generic name for the product 

 being manufactured by the rival trader in which 

 case it would never constitute an action of passing- off. 5. Again, if the said name is descriptive of the product 

 of the rival trader, it would then amount to passing- off only if it is established that it has become a 

 household name of such a nature as to have 

 acquired a strong secondary meaning and it being 

 associated substantially with the first trader, in 

 which case alone it would amount to a passing-off. The standard of proof of such a case would be 

 higher than the standard of proof of first three 

 propositions. 23. Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned senior counsel and Mrs. 

Prathiba Singh, learned counsel arguing on behalf of the 

appellant submitted that in the instant case the suit was in 

fact governed by Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 and 

not by the Trade Marks Act, 1999 which came into force w.e.f. 15.9.2003. It was submitted that this case is covered under 

section 159(4) of the 1999 Act, which specifically provides that 

any legal proceedings pending in any court at the 11 commencement of this Act would be governed by the old Act. Section 159(4) of the 1999 Act is reproduced as under:- Thus, none of the concepts of well-known marks, dilution etc. 

as statutorily applicable under the 1999 Act, have any 

application in this case. It is submitted that the present case, 

as decided by all the courts below, is a case of passing off and 

not of dilution. 24. In reply to the submission of the respondent company, 

learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the passing 

off test is the test of likelihood of confusion. Such confusion 

should be either confusion arising due to get up of products, 

confusion as to sponsorship/affiliation of source or confusion 

arising out of the use of identical/deceptively similar 

trademarks. 25. Learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that 

dilution is a completely different concept, namely, if there is 

confusion, there is no dilution. The concept of dilution steps 

in when in fact the consumer is not being confused but the 

plaintiff's mark is being diluted in some form or the other. McCarthy, a well-known author on Trademarks and Unfair 

Competition clearly states the same in the said publication. Reliance is being placed at para 24.70 wherein it has been 

observed that "the dilution doctrine is concerned with granting 

protection to trademarks beyond that provided by the classic 

`likelihood of confusion' tests." 26. According to the appellant, the principle of dilution 

requires that the consumer in fact should not be confused but 

a well-known mark, in the absence of confusion, is being 

diluted. In the United States of America, dilution is protected 

by a specific statute called the Federal Anti Dilution Act, 1996. The discussion on dilution in McCarthy establishes the 

following:- 27. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that under 

the traditional law of passing off or under the law of dilution, 

the only marks which have been protected across product 

category are marks which can easily be termed even in the 14 common parlance as well-known marks. Such marks such as 

Bata, Volvo, Benz, Mahindra & Mahindra and Tata etc. 28. It was submitted that the case pleaded by the respondent 

company (plaintiff) is one of confusion and passing off and not 

of dilution. The standard for establishing dilution are 

completely different. There is neither a pleading in the present 

case alleging dilution, nor any evidence in support of dilution. The standards for recognizing dilution have not been 

confirmed by any court of law in India and while deciding the 

present case in the courts below the threshold of dilution was 

never applied. 29. In India, the law on dilution has developed through case 

law going back to the Benz's case decided by the Delhi High 

Court in Daimler Benz Aktiegesellschaft and another v. Hybo Hindustan AIR 1994 DELHI 239. However, `Eenadu' 

cannot claim the distinctiveness or the reputation which is 

enjoyed by a mark like Benz or Harrods. `Eenadu' is a very 

ordinary word commonly used in Telugu language and to vest 

a monopoly in favour of the respondent company (plaintiff) for 15 such a common word on the ground of dilution would result in 

conferring an undue monopoly to a generic/descriptive word. There are several marks which are used in the ordinary 

language for different types of products, such as :- 30. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that 

`Eenadu' is a common word used in Telugu language. This has 

been fully established by the evidence on record. 31. He referred to the deposition of Jagannadharao, PW1, Law 

Officer of the plaintiff, who has stated that the literal meaning of 

the word `Eenadu' is `Today'. 32. According to the deposition of PW2, N. Swami, Artist, the 

meaning of the word `Eenadu' is `Today'. 33. Learned counsel for the appellant referred to deposition 

of PW5, R. Kumaraswamy, Advocate who has stated that 

literal meaning of the word `Eenadu' is `Today'. 34. The learned counsel referred to the deposition of PW6, 

T.V. Venugopal, the appellant herein. He has stated that the 

word `Eenadu' was specifically given for the purpose of `daily' 

prayer. 35. The learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the 

word `Eenadu' literally means "Today" or "This Day" and hence 

is not an invented word but is a generic/descriptive word used 

in common parlance. This is further proved by the fact that 

the word `Eenadu' has been used by several parties for various 

products which include :- 36. The appellant submitted that it is clear that `Eenadu' is a 

term which is used in the ordinary Telugu language and in 

Kannada and the same is acknowledged by the respondent 

company itself as is evident from the wide publicity given to 

the film in the respondent company's newspaper. 37. The appellant further submitted that the evidence relied 

upon by the respondent company in order to allege that 

`Eenadu' is a reputed and distinctive mark, is a compilation of 

documents handed over before this court during the course of 

arguments on 23.3.10. In order to show that `Eenadu' is a 

household name, an extract from Wikipedia printed on 

13.4.09 was submitted by the respondent company before this 

court. In fact, all the other internet print-outs annexed by the 

respondent company are based on Wikipedia itself. It is the 

submission of the appellant that it is now an established 

position, internationally in law that Wikipedia does not have 

any evidentiary value in the court proceedings. The same has 

been held by the US Court of Federal Claims in Taylor Mary 

Campbell v. Secretary of Health and Human Services 69 19 Fed. Cl. 775 (2006) and by the US Court of Appeals in 

Lamilem Badasa v. Michael B. Mukasey 540 F.3d 909. As 

against the Wikipedia evidence, the actual evidence on record 

reveals the following:- 38. Thus, `Eenadu' does not enjoy the distinctiveness which 

the respondent company claim and in any event such 

distinctiveness does not span across all classes of goods and 

services. 39. The respondent company has argued before this court 

that the descriptive nature of the mark has to be determined 

with respect to the appellant's goods. This approach 

according to the appellant is completely erroneous. While 

determining the nature of the mark - for the purpose of 

registration or for the purpose of passing-off/infringement, the 

first inquiry which the court ought to carry out is to determine 

whether the applicant's/plaintiff's mark is invented, 

arbitrary/suggestive, descriptive or generic. The nature of the 

mark is always determined with respect to the 

plaintiff's/applicant's goods. For example, if a person applies 

for a trademark called "Extra Strong", the Registrar of trade 

mark has to examine whether the mark is descriptive or 

laudatory for the goods for which it is applied, i.e., the 

applicant's goods. The inquiry does not depend on the person 21 opposing the use of the said mark. Thus, to hold that the 

nature of the mark has to be determined by the nature of the 

appellant's goods is stating the proposition in the reverse. 40. In the present case, the plaintiff/respondent company 

was conscious that `Eenadu' is a descriptive mark and it is for 

this reason that in the plaint, the plaintiff (respondent) 

company has pleaded a secondary meaning with respect to 

their mark `Eenadu'. If the plaintiff's case is based on 

`Eenadu' being a distinctive mark, a suggestive mark and a 

well known mark, then there is no question of pleading 

secondary meaning to its mark. It is only with respect to 

descriptive marks that secondary meaning needs to be pleaded 

and considered by this court. 41. The argument of the respondent company is that 

`Eenadu' is not a generic or descriptive mark but a suggestive 

mark. The difference between categorization as generic, 

descriptive or suggestive is a follows:- 42. The line between suggestive marks and descriptive 

marks is very thin. Various commentaries including 

McCarthy have laid down the imagination test to determine 

as to whether a mark is descriptive or suggestive. When 

this test is applied to the mark `Eenadu' for a newspaper, it 

is clear that the same is descriptive in nature inasmuch as 

it means `Today', i.e. news for today. It does not require 

any imagination at all. Thus in the imagination test, if the 

mark describes a characteristic of the product - in the case 

of `Eenadu' the newspaper, it refers to the characteristic of 

the newspaper, i.e., today's news. `Eenadu' would therefore, 

be an expression which immediately describes a newspaper. In fact with respect to its Agarbathies, `Eenadu' would be a 

completely arbitrary term. However, with respect to 

newspapers, this is a descriptive term. 43. The appellant submitted that the entire object of 

including the 4th Schedule in the Trademark Rules is that 

marks are to be registered for the goods and services for the 

purpose for which they are used. Non-use of a mark entails 

rectification under section 46 of the 1958 Act. Thus, the 

entire object of trademarks is to confer monopoly of a 

particular individual or entity with respect to a mark for a 

particular category of goods or category of services. It is 

only in exceptional cases that a mark is protected across all 

product categories. If that was not the position, then every 

trademark owner whose mark enjoys a reputation in 

whatever limited field and for specific goods/services, would 

be able to claim monopoly for the mark with respect to all 

42 classes of goods and services. This could never have 

been the intention of the Legislature. Even while 

establishing the criteria for the marks which are well- known, the legislature has thought it fit to deal with the 

reputation of such well-known marks by taking into 

consideration factors like section of the public, relevant 

geographical area etc. Thus, every trade mark is not 24 entitled to protection across all categories as every trade 

mark does not automatically become a "well-known mark". If this was not the case, then there would come a time when 

most words would get monopolized across products and 

services which would not conform to the intention behind 

the Law of Trade Marks. 44. Every mark with a reputation cannot be determined as 

a well-known mark as reputation by itself does not escalate 

the mark into the position of a well-known mark. The 

reputation of a mark can be restricted to a particular 

territory, to a particular category of goods or services, to a 

particular category of population, to a particular linguistic 

section of public etc. 45. The appellant submitted that in most of the cases 

where absolute protection has been granted, extending it 

beyond the goods and services in which the plaintiff deals 

with, the mark or name has been an extremely distinctive 

mark. They have either invented the mark or marks which 

are derived from surnames or marks are used across 25 categories of products. The defendant's products may be 

confused from the other products originating from the 

plaintiff, but the plaintiff has to be dealing with more than 

one products or services with respect to the said 

mark/name. 46. In the present case, the evidence on record has 

established that the plaintiff/respondent company has only 

dealt with mark `Eenadu' for newspapers. The television 

channel is known as ETV where the word `Eenadu' is not 

used for the same. The evidence itself establishes the same. Further it is pertinent to note that: 47. The appellant submitted that in the background of this 

evidence emanating from the plaintiff's main witness, it is 

evident that `Eenadu' is not a distinctive mark. It is in fact a 

descriptive mark. At best, a secondary meaning may accrue in 

its favour with respect to only newspapers and nothing more. Descriptive words which have been used only for one category 

of goods cannot claim across the board protection. `Eenadu' is 

not like Volvo or Kirloskar or Harrods or Benz. 48. `Eenadu' would fall in the category of marks like Shell, 

Safeguard, Flexgrip, Imperial, Skyline and Financial Times, 

Heat Piller, One Day Drycleaners, Instea, Kesh Nikhar, Whipp 

Toppings. All these words have not been granted protection 

across the board. 49. The respondent company has argued before this court 

that the appellant's adoption is dishonest in view of the similar 

scripts being used by the defendant. The script being used by 

the appellant is a standard block script in the Telugu 

language. The perusal of all the third party use of the mark 

`Eenadu' would reveal that almost every party uses the same 

script. Thus, there is no dishonesty in adoption of the same 

as the script is commonly used in Telugu language. Even the 

feature film which has been released in 2009 has used the 

same script. There is no dishonesty in the adoption of the 

mark `Eenadu' or the script `Eenadu'. The appellant went 

through the process of applying for a Search as prescribed 

under the Copyright Act . The appellant obtained a No- Objection in accordance with Section 45 of the Copyright Act 

and Rule 24(3) of the Trade Mark Rules, 1959. 50. The mark `Eenadu' meaning DAILY or TODAY, the 

appellant genuinely adopted the same to signify Daily use of 

Agarbathi, which is in fact used on a daily basis by persons 28 performing puja. Thus, the appellant does have a valid and 

acceptable explanation for the adoption. It is submitted that 

for the appellant's goods, it is an arbitrary mark. 51. The appellant submitted that in order to establish the 

appellant's bona fides, the appellant is ready and willing to 

change the script and to prefix the word "Ashika" in order to 

distinguish itself from the respondent company and to ensure 

that there is no confusion as to source. 52. The appellant submitted that as long as the product is 

distinguishable from the product of the respondent company, 

the appellant prays that the injunction ought to be modified 

and the appellant ought to be permitting to adopt the carton 

which it has proposed to use before this court. It is incorrect 

that the trade made application for registration of the trade 

mark was subsequent to the issuance of the notice. The 

appellant submitted that the respondent company has not 

been able to establish bona fide conduct. This is established 

from the following facts:- 53. The appellant submitted that the case law is clear that 

confusion as to source applies only when the source is not 

clearly stated. The appellant in the impugned carton has used 30 the word Agarbathi along with the word `Eenadu'. However, 

Ashika's Eenadu completely distinguishes itself from the 

respondent company. A carton being proposed to be adopted 

by the appellant which would completely eliminate any remote 

chance of any confusion. 54. Mr. R.A. Sundaram, learned Senior Advocate argued on 

behalf of the respondent company. He submitted that 

`Eenadu' is not a common Telugu word meaning "Today" and 

is not a common word. He submitted that `Eenadu' has 

acquired secondary meaning and referred to and relied on the 

trial court findings in that respect. He submitted that the 

appellant failed to note that `Eenadu' Group is inter alia a 

publisher of a newspaper which is the second largest regional 

daily circulating in India and is the largest in Andhra Pradesh. 55. Mr. Sundaram submitted that the appellant is a 

Bangalore based company which started manufacturing its 

products in Bangalore under the name "Ashika" and had 

started selling its products in Andhra Pradesh in 1995. The 

appellant started using the name `Eenadu' for its Agarbathies 31 and used same artistic script, font and method of writing the 

name cannot be a co-incidence. The appellant is a Karnataka 

company after adoption of the name `Eenadu' accounted for 

90% of the sale of their product Agarbathies. The appellant 

was restrained from using the word `Eenadu' in the State of 

Andhra Pradesh, their sales have dropped by 10 times 

although they continued to sell the product under the name 

"Ashika". The appellant glossed over the fact of being 

manufacturer of Agarbathies as is inexplicable as to why they 

had applied for registration of name `Eenadu' not just for 

Agarbathies but inasmuch as 34 classes of the Trade Marks 

Act for goods which they do not even produce or do not have 

any intention to produce which would itself show the intention 

that they can trade on the respondent company's household 

name and goodwill and reputation. According to the 

respondent company, all these facts clearly show that 

adoption of name `Eenadu' was by no means innocent but was 

intended to capitalize and derive benefit on the goodwill and 

reputation of the respondent company which is impressible. 56. Mr. Sundaram submitted the basic underlying fallacy is 

that since after all the readers of a newspaper are literate and, 

therefore, would be able to make out that the Agarbathies are 

by the name "Ashika Eenadu" or that it comes from a different 

source, overlooks completely that it is the purchaser of the 

Agarbathies and not the purchaser of newspaper that we are 

concerned with. The goodwill sought to be cashed in is the 

name `Eenadu" by the appellant who is selling Agarbathies 

and the person so deceived is not the purchaser of the 

newspaper but the purchaser of the Agarbathies. To say that 

all the purchasers of Agarbathies are illiterate people is a basic 

fallacy since the purchasers of Agarbathies will transcend all 

classes of people in the society. The entire submission, 

therefore, overlooks the basic fact that the purchaser of the 

Agarbathies would be deceived into believing that the said 

Agarbathies also come from the House of `Eenadu' and thereby 

they would be deceived as to the source of the product, and 

this cashing in on the goodwill and reputation of the 

respondent company is impressible in law. 57. The respondent company's reply to the appellant's 

contention that `Eenadu' is not a household name since it only 

deals with newspaper is complete fallacy because the group is 

known as "Eenadu Margadarshi Group" and the meaning of 

`Eenadu' in various publications is stated to be the respondent 

company's group. Furthermore, it also overlooked that in 

actual fact there are various products which are also being 

produced and sold by the respondent company under the 

business name of `Eenadu'. It is also relevant to mention that 

the `Eenadu' TV Channel (also known as ETV) is one of the 

most popular channels and, therefore, the word `Eenadu' has 

come to be completely associated with the respondent 

company group and in fact is a household name. He has 

referred to the findings of the Trial Court, the High Court and 

that of the learned Single Judge and submitted that such 

findings are not unreasonable so as to require interference 

under section 136 of the Constitution. 58. Mr. Sundaram submitted that `Eenadu' is not a generic 

name, but in fact would be a `fancy' name outside the State of 34 Andhra Pradesh and within the State of Andhra Pradesh it is a 

name which is not in common use, and therefore, would be a 

`fancy' name. In any event, `Eenadu' is not generic in the 

Trade Mark's sense of the word since it is not the use of the 

product name itself. What is meant by generic for Trade Mark 

law is that when you call a cake a cake or a shoe a shoe. When a shoe is called a cake or a cake is called a shoe, it is 

neither descriptive nor generic. On the contrary, it is `fancy'. The name `Eenadu', therefore, for any of the products of the 

respondent company would not be a generic name at all. The 

appellant overlooks that his complaint as to name being 

generic can only arise qua product using generic or descriptive 

name. It is nobody's case that `Eenadu' is descriptive of 

Agarbathi. 59. All the cases, i.e., Newseek, Ovenchips, MaltedMilk, 

Shredded Wheat etc. were cases where the appellant wanted 

exclusivity of the name which was descriptive of their product 

and the respondent company who was manufacturing a 

similar product objected to the exclusivity on the ground that 35 the name was descriptive of the product in question. In this 

case, for the application of the judgments the following must 

arise:- 60. Mr. Sundaram while dealing with the scope of passing off 

action submitted that the law of passing off can be 

summarized in one short general proposition - no man may 

pass off his goods as those of another. More specifically, it 

may be expressed in terms of the elements which the appellant 

in such an action has to prove in order to succeed. These are 

there in number. 61. Learned counsel placed reliance on the following passage 

from a well-known case Reddaway & Co. and Another v. Banham & Co. and Another 1895-99 All ER 133 which 

reads as under:- 64. He also relied on the judgment of this court in Ruston & 

Hornsby Ltd. v. The Zamindara Engineering Co. - 1969 (2) 

SCC 727 wherein the court observed as under:- But in an infringement action the issue is as 

 follows: 65. He also relied on Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhai 

Shah and Another - 2002 (3) SCC 65. This court observed 

as under:- 66. Mr. Sundaram also placed reliance on a judgment of this 

court in Satyam Infoway Ltd. v. Sifynet Solutions (P) 

Limited - 2004 (6) SCC 145. The relevant passage is 

reproduced as under:- 67. Mr. Sundaram also relied on Ramdev Food Products (P) 

Limited v. Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel and Others - 2006 (8) 

SCC 726 as under:- 68. He also relied on Harrods Limited v. R. Harrod 

Limited - (1924) RPC 74 where the court observed as under:- 69. Mr. Sundaram also placed reliance on Harrods Limited 

v. Harrodian School Limited (1996) RPC 697. In this case 

the court held that the manifold services and activities for 

which the plaintiffs are known, and the wide field of 

recognition of the name "Harrods", would lead to an 

assumption that, the plaintiffs are in some way are connected, 46 associated or mixed-up with the school which bears their 

name in its adjectival form. The court also observed that 

Erosion of distinctiveness of a brand name had been 

recognized as a form of damage to the goodwill of a business 

with which the name is connected in a number of cases, but 

unless care was taken this could mark an unacceptable 

extension of the law of passing off. 70. Learned counsel for the respondent company also relied 

on a judgment of this Court in the case of Midas Hygiene 

Industries (P) Ltd. and another v. Sudhir Bhatia and 

others (2004) 3 SCC 90. The court observed that the law on 

the subject is well settled. In cases of infringement either of 

trade mark or of copyright, normally an injunction must 

follow. Mere delay in bringing action is not sufficient to defeat 

grant of injunction in such cases. The grant of injunction also 

becomes necessary if it prima facie appears that the adoption 

of the mark was itself dishonest. 71. Mr. Sundaram also relied on a judgment of the Delhi 

High Court in the case of Madhubhan Holiday Inn v. Holiday Inn Inc. 100 (2002) DLT 306 (DB) (on which one of 

us, Dalveer Bhandari, J. was the author). The Division Bench 

of the High Court observed as under: 72. Learned counsel for the respondent company also 

submitted that where a trade/business name has acquired a 

reputation such as it has become a household name. In such 

a case anyone who uses the identical name albeit in a different 

field of business altogether would be guilty of passing off by 

cashing in on the reputation and goodwill of the business of 

the plaintiff and would be restrained. 73. Mr. Sundaram also placed reliance on the judgment of Harrodian School Limited (supra). The court observed as 

under: 74. The respondent company also placed reliance on a 

judgment of this Court in the case of Mahendra & Mahendra 

Paper Mills Limited v. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (2002) 2 SCC 147 wherein this Court observed as under: 75. Mr. Sundaram also relied on a judgment of this court in 

the case of Bata India Limited v. Pyare Lal & Company, 50 Meerut City & Ors. AIR 1985 All 242] the Allahabad High 

Court observed that considering the plea of passing-off or 

enabling others to pass-off mattresses, sofa cushions and 

other articles associating them with the name of "Bata" in any 

manner or form held that: 76. Learned counsel for the respondent company also relied 

on a judgment of Delhi High Court in the case of Diamler 

Benz Aktiegesellschaft (supra) wherein the Court observed 

as under: The Court also observed in the said case that: The Court further observed as under: 77. Mr. Sundaram placed reliance on Harrods Limited 

(supra) where the Court observed as under: likely to mislead the public into the belief that 

 the Defendant Company was connected with 

 the Plaintiff Company or that the business of 

 the Defendant Company was the same as or in 

 any way connected with the business of the 

 Plaintiff Company." 78. Learned counsel for the respondent company submitted 

that the scope of passing-off action is wider than in an 

infringement of trademark or copyright action. Therefore, in 

an action of passing-off, an injunction can be granted even 

against a registered trademark holder. 79. Learned counsel for the respondent company also relied 

on a judgment of this Court in the case of N.R. Dongre and 

others v. Whirlpool Corporation and another (1996) 5 

SCC 714. In this case this Court affirmed the concurrent 

findings of the single Judge, as affirmed on appeal by the 

division bench of the Delhi High Court and observed that: 80. Mr. Sundaram also submitted that common words with 

strong primary meaning retain the said meaning and 

protection would then be granted only qua the product for 

which such common word is used viz. Sun TV, Moon, Earth 

etc. In this connection learned counsel for the respondent 

company relied on a case of this Court in the case of Godfrey 

Philips India Limited v. Girnar Food & Beverages (P) 

Limited (2004) 5 SCC 257 where this court observed as under: 81. Learned counsel for the respondent company also relied 

on a judgment of Delhi High Court in the case of Info Edge 

(India) Private Limited and another v. Shailesh Gupta 55 and another 98 (2002) DLT 499 where the Court observed 

that: 82. Mr. Sundaram placed reliance on a judgment of House of 

Lords in the case of Office Cleaning Services Limited v. Westminster Office Cleaning Association 1944 (2) All E R 

269, where the court observed that the word 'office cleaning' 

was held to be a descriptive word, for it is a descriptive of the 

business they carry on. It was held that the plaintiff could 

assume or establish monopoly on the said word only when 

they show that they have acquired a secondary or subsidiary 

meaning. The aforesaid legal principle is well-settled and even 57 the counsel for the defendant did not dispute the aforesaid 

position. 83. In Halsbury's Laws of England, Volume 48 Fourth edition 

at page 190, it is stated that it is possible for a word or phrase, 

which is wholly descriptive of the goods or services concerned, 

to become so associated with the goods or services of a 

particular trader that its use by another trader is capable of 

amounting to a representation that his goods or services are 

those of the first trader and that although the primary 

meaning of the words is descriptive, they have acquired a 

secondary meaning as indicating the products of a particular 

trader. 84. In McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition Vol. 2 3rd Edition in para 12.5 (2) it is stated that in order to 

obtain some form of relief on a "passing off" claim, the user of 

a generic term must prove some false or confusing usage by 

the newcomer above and beyond mere use of generic name. 85. The contention of the defendant is that adjectives are 

normally descriptive words and nouns are generic word. However, McCarthy has said that the said "part of speech" test 

does not accurately describes the case law results. therefore, 

such a criteria cannot be accepted as a safe and sound basis 

to ascertain as to whether a particular name is generic or 

descriptive. Besides, even assuming that the said word is 

generic yet if it is found by the court that such a mark has 

attained distinctiveness and is associated with the business of 

the plaintiff for considerable time and thereafter the defendant 

adopts a similar word as one of his two marks to induce 

innocent internet users to come to the website of the 

defendant, which establishes dishonest intention and bad 

faith, would the court still be not granting injunction to 

protect the business of the plaintiff? The answer to the said 

question has to be an emphatic 'No". User of similar word by a 

competitor coupled with dishonest intention and bad faith 

would empower a court to restrain such user/misuser to do 

equitable justice to the aggrieved party. 86. Learned counsel for the respondent company also 

submitted that the use of the word by another would result in 

diminishing the distinctiveness of the word qua the good and 

reputation of the plaintiff. 87. Mr. Sundaram also placed reliance on Taittinger and 

others v. Allbev Limitd and others (1994) 4 All E R 75. The 

relevant passages are reproduced as under: In Vine Products Ltd. v. Mackenzie & Co. Ltd. Cross J., [1969] RPC 1 commenting with 

approval on the decision of Danckwerts J. in 

Bollinger v. Costa Brava Wine Co. Ltd. (No. 2) 

said: 88. Learned counsel for the respondent company also 

submitted that the protection qua common field of activity has 

now expanded and been interpreted to mean extending to 

other product lines than what is manufactured by the plaintiff 

and hence common field of activity is not restricted to same or 

similar products but extend to all other products. The test of 

common field of activity now accepted is that of "common class 

of consumers". The reason for this is the likelihood of such 

consumers identifying the Defendant's goods as originating 

from the same source as the plaintiff. The question therefore 64 would be, whether from the factual situation, an inference can 

be drawn that a purchaser of the Defendant's product could 

assume such product as originating from the plaintiff. 89. He also relied on Kamal Trading Co., Bombay and 

Others v. Gillette U.K. Limited [1988] IPLR 135 wherein it 

has been observed that: 90. Mr. Sundaram also relied on Honda Motors Company 

Limited v. Charanjit Singh & Others (101 (2002) DLT 359) wherein it has been observed that: The court further observed that: 91. From the above discussions, the following two situations 

arise: 92. Learned counsel for the respondent company also 

submitted that once there is a dishonest intention to adopt the 

mark a mere delay in bringing an action will not be defeated 

because in case of continuing tort fresh period of limitation 

begins to run every moment of the time during which the 

breach continues. 93. Mr. Sundaram relied on a case of this court in M/s. Bengal Waterproof Limited Vs. M/s. Bombay Waterproof 

Manufacturing Company and Another (1997) 1 SCC 99 

wherein it has been observed that: 94. Learned counsel for the respondent company also placed 

reliance on another judgment of this Court in the case of 70 Heinz Italia and another v. Dabur India Limited (2007) 6 

SCC 1 wherein this court observed that: It bears reiteration that the word "Glucon-D" 95. Mr. Sundaram further placed reliance on another 

judgment of this Court in Ramdev Food Products (P) Limited (supra), wherein it has been held that: The court further observed that: 96. Mr. Sundaram, counsel for the respondent company also 

submitted that use of a similar mark(s) by third parties is not 

a defense to an illegal act of passing-off. He relied on a 

judgment of Delhi High Court in Ford Motor Company of 

Canada Limited and another v. Ford Service Centre 2009 

(39) PTC 149, wherein the Court observed that: 97. Learned counsel for the respondent company also placed 

reliance on Prakash Roadline Limited v. Prakash Parcel 

Service (P) Ltd. 48 (1992) Delhi Law Times 390 the Delhi 

High Court held that: 98. Lastly, learned counsel for the respondent company 

submitted that in any one of the following circumstances the 

plaintiff would be entitled to injunctive relief even qua a 

common word: 99. We have heard the detailed and comprehensive 

arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties. We place on record our appreciation for the able assistance 

provided by the learned counsel for the parties in this case. We 

have also carefully examined relevant decided Indian, English 

and American cases. 100. The respondent company's mark `Eenadu' has acquired 

extra-ordinary reputation and goodwill in the State of Andhra 75 Pradesh. `Eenadu' newspaper and TV are extremely well 

known and almost household words in the State of Andhra 

Pradesh. The word `Eenadu' may be a descriptive word but 

has acquired a secondary or subsidiary meaning and is fully 

identified with the products and services provided by the 

respondent company. 101. The appellant is a Karnataka based company which has 

started manufacturing its product in Bangalore in the name of 

`Ashika' and started selling its product in the State of Andhra 

Pradesh in 1995. The appellant started using the name 

`Eenadu' for its Agarbathi and used the same artistic script, 

font and method of writing the name which obviously cannot 

be a co-incidence. The appellant company after adoption of 

name `Eenadu' accounted for 90% of sale of their product 

Agarbathi. 102. On consideration of the totality of facts and 

circumstances of the case, we clearly arrive at the following 

findings and conclusions : ordinary reputation and goodwill acquired by 

 the respondent company over a passage of 

 time; g) Appellant's deliberate misrepresentation has 

 the potentiality of creating serious confusion 

 and deception for the public at large and the 

 consumers have to be saved from such 

 fraudulent and deceitful conduct of the 

 appellant. h) Permitting the appellant to sell his product 

 with the mark `Eenadu' would be encroaching 

 on the reputation and goodwill of the 

 respondent company and this would constitute 

 invasion of proprietary rights vested with the 

 respondent company. i) Honesty and fair play ought to be the basis of 

 the policies in the world of trade and business. 103. The law is consistent that no one can be permitted 

to encroach upon the reputation and goodwill of other parties. This approach is in consonance with protecting proprietary 

rights of the respondent company. 104. Consequently, the appeals are disposed of in terms 

of the aforesaid observations and directions. 105. In the facts and circumstances of this case, the 

parties are directed to bear their own costs. ..................................................J.

 (Dalveer Bhandari)

 .................................................J.

 (K.S. Panicker Radhakrishnan)

New Delhi; March 3, 2011