SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How to deal with relatives who never invite you over, but comes to your place
DATE: 2023-04-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/133i1jc/how_to_deal_with_relatives_who_never_invite_you/

--- POST TEXT ---

So a very close relative (R) mine always always make sure no one enters their house, like a dragon protecting their territory. Like, in the last 10 years I don't remember then ever taking an initiative to host an event at their place. Its not even like their house is bad, or has anything to feel bad about.

LONG RANT AHEAD:

Let's say if someone (A) has come home from abroad, its obvious that A will go visit them as A hasn't seen them for long. R and his wife rushes to visit the person in an attempt to not let anyone enter their house.

On the one festive occasion we celebrate in a year, lets take diwali, if they know that we're stopping by there for a visit, 'just stopping by' to wish, not even enter the house, they say 'no no, we're one our way, we were planning to visit you guys' and visits our house.

R and children visit this year again to our house and says that 'every year you guys come to our house, so just thought of stopping by'. Like really, they come to our house once or twice on the festive occasion and they say this!? 

Later that night I hear that we were supposed to have a party at their house, all of the family members had decided to take turns to host the party at their place every year, and this year was their turn (after everyone else completed their turn, they were last). As always, their granny had back pain *facepalm* Like they always manage to find some reason.

I always invited Rs child when I was a kid as I didn't have any cousins to play with. I invited Rs child every year, every day. Gave all my stuff like a bestie. Not even ONCE, did that kid ever call me home. I only realised this after I became like 20 years old or something.

Now some may argue, they might not have the facilities, mental state, money whatever to host. NO, they do have. Plus, they do all the things mentioned below-
We were out of town for a month or so. One of another relative was getting married (B). Its was late and Bs brides family had to stay somewherw that night. Without even a bit of thought, or permission lets say, R says my house is free, feel free to stay there like its your own house. R didn't even bother asking us, and was glad to show his hospitality. But this hospitality only happens in others peoples houses.

Another day, R's sons 7 friends came for a visit to his house. We were out of town. R's friends were staying overnight, and decided to use our house as their 'hotel'. Didn't even ask us, we didn't know. We came back to see the toilet not flushed and was wondering what happend. Months later, the story of her Rs sons friends story came out Rs younger daughter by mistake, and we realised what happend. Note that, we were still not informed of the sneaky stay. Upon asking R, he is like they did get bus back home, blah blah. All my dad asked was why didn't you inform. Everytime we were not in town we would see the electricity bill high, indicating someone had used AC during summer. Now we kinda know why.

I know this LONGG rant, but R is someone closely related to me and I don't know how to handle them. My dad has installed cameras in our house, so no sneaky stay now. But we act as if we are fools and don't know of anything.

The thing is R is always there for anything else, like paying bills, taking us to and from airport, etc. Anything outside the house. But I kinda feel he is doing it out of obligation. My dad also helps him a lot financially, R still has a debt to pay back. My dad never really asks him about returning the money as R always pays back on time. But we remember when my dad lost his job during covid, R was acting weird, like talking and all. Rs business failed, R started slowly talking again.

I hate being fake. But I realise thats how everyone is here. My gut feeling tells R is all talk, though has a good heart somewhere, but thinks he can fraud people and they won't realise. Rs wife really dislikes people coming to their house, and doesn't really talk to my mom, besides bragging, like - sending their daughter abroad for studies when R has taken money from my dad to pay to bank. We act like we don't about this to not hurt them. But I just can't be fake nice to them, I hate it. Any insights will be helpful on how to deal with this. I cant deal with anything but liers and braggers.