The conspectus of the facts & material, which needs a

 necessary mention for the limited purpose of deciding the instant petition

 for anticipatory bail filed by the petitioners and emanating from the

 record, is that, accused Vishal Gupta son of Om Parkash Gupta was the

 Director/share holder of M/s UFIPL Infrastructure Limited Company. He,

 on behalf of company, fraudulently entered into an agreement to purchase

 the land measuring 43 kanals 13 marlas, situated in the revenue estate of

 villages Uchana and Jhanjari, District Karnal, from accused Vinod Saini

 son of Rajender Kumar Saini for a total consideration amount of ` 10.74

 crores. He has executed an agreement to sell in this respect. Accused

 Vinod Saini has received the earnest money of ` 4.75 crores from the

 company. The date for payment of remaining amount of sale

 consideration and registration of the sale deed was fixed as 5.1.2009. Sharma Arvind Kumar 2013.08.21 18:04 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM No. M-20422 of 2013 2 Complainant Vikas Mallan son of Ram Parsad Mallan (for brevity "the

 complainant"), an authorized signatory of the company, asked accused

 Vishal Gupta to get the sale deed executed and registered from the

 proposed vendor accused Vinod Saini. They delayed the matter on one

 pretext or the other. The other Directors of the company became

 suspicious and tried to find out the actual facts. During the course of

 inquiry, it revealed that Vinod Saini was neither the owner of the land in

 question nor holder of power of attorney of Ram Niwas Jindal son of Lal

 Chand at any time. He has no claim in the land in dispute in any manner.

 It also revealed that in the same manner, accused Vishal Gupta had earlier

 struck the deal of disputed land with Ram Niwas Jindal at a price of `

 1.25 crore per acre and got an agreement to sell executed in the name of

 trusted person and his long time employee Vinod Saini (co-accused). It

 was claimed that the accused have cheated the company and

 misappropriated the pointed earnest money in crores knowing fully well

 that Vinod Saini was neither owner nor has any power of attorney in this

 regard. They have the intention to cheat the company from the very

 beginning. 2. The case of the prosecution further proceeds that Sonia

 Gupta (petitioner No.1) is the real sister-in-law of main accused Vishal

 Gupta, whereas Sarita Takru (petitioner No.2) is Director in eight

 companies with main accused Vinod Saini. They have illegally

 withdrawn and received the huge amount out of the cheated amount from

 the accounts of accused Vishal Gupta & Vinod Saini in order to cause

 disappearance of evidence of offences with the intention of screening the Sharma Arvind Kumar 2013.08.21 18:04 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM No. M-20422 of 2013 3 offenders from legal punishment. 3. Leveling a variety of allegations and narrating the sequence

 of events, in all, the prosecution claimed that the petitioners along with

 their other co-accused, have hatched a criminal conspiracy, prepared the

 forged documents, cheated the company and misappropriated the amount

 of earnest money in crores. In the background of these allegations and in

 the wake of complaint of the complainant, the present criminal case was

 registered against the petitioners-accused and their other co-accused, by

 way of FIR No.263 dated 14.3.2009 (Annexure P2), for the commissioner

 of offences punishable under sections 420 , 406 , 465 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120-B IPC by the police of Police Station Civil Lines, Karnal, in the

 manner depicted here-in-above. 4. Having exercised their right and remained unsuccessful

 before Additional Sessions Judge, now the petitioners have preferred the

 instant petition for anticipatory bail in the indicated criminal case,

 invoking the provisions of section 438 Cr.PC. 5. Notice of the petition was issued to the State. 6. After hearing the learned counsel for the parties, going

 through the record with their valuable help and after deep consideration

 over the entire matter, to my mind, there is no merit in the present petition

 in this context. 7. Ex facie, the arguments of learned counsel that the only

 allegations of receipt of amount from the accounts of main accused are

 attributed to the petitioners and since the main allegations of commission

 of cheating, fraud and misappropriation are assigned to their other co- Sharma Arvind Kumar 2013.08.21 18:04 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM No. M-20422 of 2013 4 accused, so they (petitioners) are entitled to the concession of

 anticipatory bail, are not only devoid of merit but misplaced as well. 8. What cannot possibly be disputed here is that petitioner No.1

 Sonia Gupta is the real sister-in-law of main accused Vishal Gupta,

 whereas petitioner No.2 Sarita Takru is Director in many companies with

 main accused Vinod Saini. There are direct allegations that petitioner

 No.1 has withdrawn and received an huge amount of ` 25 lacs and

 petitioner No.2 has withdrawn and received the amount of ` 30 lacs, out

 of cheated amount, from the accounts of the main accused. The mere fact

 that Krishan Lal Taneja, co-accused of petitioners, has been granted the

 concession of anticipatory bail by this Court, by means of order dated

 27.1.2012 (Annexure P3) rendered in CRM No. M-36413 of 2011, ipso

 facto, is not a ground, muchless cogent, to grant the benefit of

 anticipatory bail to the present petitioners, where in that petition, during

 the course of preliminary hearing, a Coordinate Bench of this Court

 (Rajesh Bindal, J.) had observed that the transaction in favour of Krishan

 Lal Taneja had nothing to do with the sale and purchase of land by the

 parties. The fact was verified and State counsel on instructions from ASI

 Manjeet Singh, Investigating Officer, had stated that accused Krishan Lal

 Taneja had already joined the investigation and was no longer required

 for further interrogation. He was not, in any way, related to the main

 accused, whereas, in the present case, as indicated here-in-above,

 petitioner No.1 Sonia Gupta is the real sister-in-law of main accused

 Vishal Gupta, whereas petitioner No.2 Sarita Takru is Director in many

 companies with main accused Vinod Saini and have withdrawn the Sharma Arvind Kumar 2013.08.21 18:04 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM No. M-20422 of 2013 5 pointed amount out of the cheated amount in order to cause

 disappearance of evidence of offences with the intention of screening the

 offenders from legal punishment. 9. Sequelly, the next contention of learned counsel that neither

 the names of petitioners are mentioned nor any specific role or overt-act

 is attributed to them in the FIR and they deserve to be released on pre-

 arrest bail, again lacks merit. 10. As is evident from the record/status report that the petitioners

 were charged for hatching a criminal conspiracy with the main accused

 and shared the cheated amount. The offence of criminal conspiracy

 punishable u/s 120-B IPC is an independent offence and some general

 evidence pertaining to the conspiracy would be sufficient, to form part of

 the offence of conspiracy. As a matter of fact, some connecting link or

 connecting factor somewhat here and there in the evidence would be

 good enough to involve the petitioners. There is a very less possibility of

 direct evidence and the evidence of hatching such criminal conspiracy

 has to be gathered from the facts, situations and circumstances, oozing

 out from the evidence to be collected by the investigating agency. The

 receipt of huge pointed amount by the petitioners is indicative of the fact

 of their involvement with their acquainted accused. 11. Not only that, the Investigating Officer has submitted the

 status report dated 16.8.2013, in which, it has been specifically

 mentioned that "on 23.04.2011, complainant Vikas Mallan submitted

 complaint No.627 in the office of Superintendent of Police, Karnal

 seeking further investigation on the ground that money has been Sharma Arvind Kumar 2013.08.21 18:04 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM No. M-20422 of 2013 6 transferred in the account of Soniya Gupta, Sarita Takru, Vinod Saini,

 Ram Niwas Jindal, Vishal Gupta, Satpal Chauhan, Sandeep Sumani,

 Pixie Publication, Pixie Consultancy Rochak Feeds, Karnal Projects

 Karnal Residency. It is also submitted that the amount so received by

 Sh.Vinod Saini and it was further transferred in the accounts of above

 named accused persons. The cheques were also issued in favour of the

 petitioners." They have miserably failed to explain the transaction of

 huge amount of ` 25 lacs & 30 lacs. Their complicity in the commission

 of the crime is clearly borne out from the record/status report submitted

 by the prosecution. It cannot possibly be denied that the tendency and

 frequency of hatching such criminal conspiracy in order to cheat the

 people of crores of rupees have been tremendously increasing day-by-day

 in the society, which needs to be curbed with heavy hands. 12. Meaning thereby, the direct allegations of committing

 heinous offence of hatching criminal conspiracy and cheating are

 assigned to the petitioners. To me, their custodial interrogation is

 necessary to, remove the curtain from, ascertain the magnitude of the

 scam, recover the impugned amount and case property. If they are

 allowed the concession of anticipatory bail, then, the recovery of amount

 in question and case property is not possible and police will be deprived

 from unearthing the scam and effective investigation, which would

 naturally adversely affect & weaken the case of the prosecution.

 Therefore, they are not entitled to the benefit of anticipatory bail in the

 obtaining circumstances of the case. 13. Moreover, it is now well settled principle of law that the Sharma Arvind Kumar 2013.08.21 18:04 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM No. M-20422 of 2013 7 anticipatory bail is not to be granted as a matter of course in all cases.

 The grant or refusal of such bail depends on the variety of circumstances,

 the cumulative effect of which, should enter the judicial verdict. The

 power under Section 438 Cr.PC is to be exercised sparingly and in

 exceptional cases keeping into focus the facts and circumstances of each

 case. The order of anticipatory bail cannot be allowed to circumvent

 normal procedure of arrest and investigation of the police. The Court has

 also to see that the investigation is in the province of the police and an

 order of anticipatory bail should not operate as an in-road into the

 statutory investigational powers of the police, in exercising the judicial

 discretion in granting the anticipatory bail. The Court should not be

 unmindful of the difficulties likely to be faced by the investigating

 agency and the public interest likely to be affected thereby in this relevant

 connection. 14. In the light of aforesaid reasons, taking into consideration the

 seriousness of allegations of hatching criminal conspiracy, preparing fake

 documents, cheating and misappropriation of crores of rupees against

 them and without commenting further anything on merits, lest it may

 prejudice the case of either side during the course of trial of main case,

 the instant petition filed by the petitioners is hereby dismissed as such. 15. Needless to mention that nothing observed, here-in-above,
 would reflect, on merits of the main case, in any manner, during the
 course of trial, as the same has been so recorded for a limited purpose of
 deciding the present petition for anticipatory bail. Sd/-