SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Miss India has shamelessly outed themselves as a scam this year and deserve to be exposed
DATE: 2022-12-08
SCORE: 143
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/zfcrky/miss_india_has_shamelessly_outed_themselves_as_a/

--- POST TEXT ---

Young Indian women deserve better than the lies they're selling so help me expose them. 

Almost everyone knows that most winners are predecided. That doesn't stop thousands of women of dreaming about their chance to win. This time however, it is clear as day that no one ever stood a chance. 

I commented about this in the bollywood sub. Personally I am not invested in these competitions, pageants are silly to me. But even if you're like me you cannot deny that they serve as launching pads for lucrative careers in film and modeling. You know, the spaces where it's impossible to get in without nepotism or crazy rich connections? Such pageants are really the only option for many women. I'm writing this on behalf of a couple of friends who've always believed that they had a chance to make it. 

Last year, the auditions were conducted "online", meaning that you had to upload a few videos and they would select people based on that. Oh and instagram followers. Seem a little shady and unfair already? Read on. 

There is no transparency to such audition procedures. If any of you submitted an application and wondered whether they even saw it, chances are no they did not. There's probably about 3-4 "normal" everyday girls who got selected as a top 3 state finalist. And they of course did not win their state anyway. These aren't just salty accusations. The friend who auditioned and was tracking the results they were posting on their instagram noticed something suspicious right away.

They claimed that they only announced the winners on Instagram on the day they were supposed to. This means none of the winners could have known before anyone else. However, when they posted the images of the winners, tagging their accounts, almost all the photographs looked like they had been taken by the same person, at the same place. 

That's not possible is it? All the winners had the time to go and get photographed at the same location by the same person, in similar clothes? When exactly did these pictures take place? If you're curious enough, you can scroll all the way down on their instagram page to find these posts. They were posted around March last year I think. 

Now the kicker for this year. They've shamelessly announced that to apply this year you are required to purchase their "course" for pageantry. This comes at a cost of 2999 + taxes. 

First rule of modeling: if you have to pay someone other than a photographer to get started, its a scam. 

The Miss India organization is led by the monolith that is the Times Group. So this paywall is for two reasons. The first is obviously money and greed. They think that girls all over are pretty blinded by potential fame and will pay. And they aren't wrong. The second is a little gross. **They are effectively getting rid of low income applicants, which is classist. You cannot as an organization sell the Manya Singh story as inspiration and also actively create barriers for more women like her.** 

If you're not aware of Manya Singh, she was the 2020 runner up, and her story became quite famous because she is the daughter of an auto rickshaw driver. Regardless of your opinions on her, she did achieve something through Miss India that improved her situation and girls in similar circumstances may look up to her. Even middle class girls like my friend have parents that wouldn't ever pay for such things. And so this year she cannot participate, which was the catalyst behind this post and my research on the matter. 

And now even the illusion of Miss India's authenticity is shattered. It is now an open scam. They will take all the money from women with hopes and dreams and crown the winners they want anyway. And there are no checks or regulations in place to audit them. Nail in the coffin? They don't require a talent audition video this year, as they did last year. Highly suspicious that in a fair process you don't want to vet the women for the talent round. And Neha Dhupia, the progressive and feminist one, is out there advertising this year's audition by telling everyone about how you will only receive an application confirmation once your payment gets through. Well done Neha, seems like your payment got through. 

Expose them.