SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Indian virtual card or digital wallet service, with minimum KYC requirements, something a foreigner can use?
DATE: 2021-08-30
SCORE: 10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/pe55jn/indian_virtual_card_or_digital_wallet_service/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi

I have a long-time gamer friend and comrade from India to whom I want to gift a couple of certain games on Steam gaming platform.

Issue is, in Indian Steam store those games are a lot cheaper than in my region. And Steam doesn't permit gifting game if the recepient's price on Steam store for a particular game you want to gift has more than 10% (yeah, I know I can just send them a Steam digital gift card code, but I really want to gift a very specific game as a surprise).

I was thinking about creating an Indian Steam account with a VPN, add him to my friendlist, and then just buy the game from that account as a gift to him. To create an account is not a problem at all.

Matter is, I also need a legit valid Indian payment method which a foreigner can use, if I just register an Indian Steam account, then suddenly use some random US bank prepaid card whicj you can find in any corner, it will be a sure way to get banned.

Are there legit no-scam trustable places where one cay buy a prepaid Indian bank virtual (non-physical) card, with Indian rupee as its used currency, and with KYC requirements being low enough for a foreigner to pass? I did some quick googling, it's extremely easy to buy an American bank-prepaid virtual card with minimum KYC requirements, but I can't seem to find anything for Indian bank-virtual prepaid cards I can utilize? Is there anything you can offer?

Alternatively, are there e-money digital wallet services (which again should have lax KYC requirements) that let a foreigner create his wallet account, replenish its balance from his original credit/debit card (and obviously, it's not Indian), so that he can buy games on Steam directly with his wallet?

I have a 2016 list (and it's possibly outdated?) of digital wallets you guys use to buy games for Indian Steam store:

FreeCharge

ICash Card

Idea Money

Jana Cash

JioMoney

Mobikwik

Oxigen

Paytm

SBI Buddy

The Mobile Wallet

Ziggit by IDFC Bank

Anything of this can help me, or any other digital wallet service where I can register from outside India?

Thanks in advance for your tips. And I'm sorry if it's a wrong sub to ask.