1. The prosecution had chargesheeted the accused for
having committed the offences u/s.376 / 506 IPC. 2. It is the case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix
namely 'N' (real name withheld in order to conceal her identity)
had appeared in the police station on 13.2.2013 and made a
complaint that she has been raped by accused Gaurav Sharma.
Her statement was recorded by ASI Savita, relevant part of which
is reproduced herein : 3. After recording aforesaid statement of the prosecutrix,
IO ASI Savita took her to RTRM Hospital and got her medically
examined vide MLC No.743/13. The exhibits given by the doctor
were seized. On the basis of the statement of the prosecutrix and
the result of MLC, ASI Savita prepared rukka and got the FIR
registered u/s.376 / 506 IPC. She produced prosecutrix before the
concerned Ld. M.M. on 14.2.2013, who recorded her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC. The prosecutrix showed the spot of incident i.e.
room in village Mitraon to the IO on 15.4.2012. The mattress
spread on the cot in the room was seized by the IO. She also
noticed certain pieces of papers on the slab in the room. She SC No.139/13. Page 2 of 23 joined the pieces of papers in the form of a page and it was
revealed that there were certain signatures and thumb impression
on these paper pieces. She seized the paper pieces. After intense
search, the accused was arrested on 20.2.2013 pursuant to a
secret information from ISBT Anand Vihar. He was got medically
examined in RTRM Hospital vide MLC No.870/13 and the exhibits
given by the doctor were seized. The accused was taken on one
day police remand during which he made disclosure statement,
admitting his guilt and pointed out the spot of incident. At his
instance, his motorcycle of black colour bearing registration
no.UP-23H-7080 was also seized by the IO from in front of his
house. Thereafter all the exhibits of the case were sent to FSL
Rohini for forensic examination. Both the prosecutrix as well as
accused were produced before the concerned M.M. on 02.3.2013
and their specimen thumb impression and signature were taken
which also were sent to FSL for comparison with signature and
handwriting found on the aforementioned paper pieces. Call detail
records of the mobile phone used by the prosecutrix and accused
were obtained. 4. After completion of the investigation, Charge Sheet
was laid before the concerned M.M., who then committed the case
to the court of Sessions. 5. Upon committal of the case to the court of Sessions,
Charge u/s.376 IPC and u/s.506 IPC was framed against the
accused on 30.5.2013. The accused abjured his guilt and
accordingly trial was held. At trial, the prosecution examined 16
witnesses. Ld. APP also tendered in evidence FSL results Ex.PA and SC No.139/13. Page 3 of 23 Ex.PB. The accused was examined u/s.313 Cr.PC on 05.3.2014,
wherein he denied the prosecution case. He further stated that in
fact, prosecutrix had taken him to the fields of village Mitraon and
she had requested Jagpal, owner of the fields, to permit them to
take some rest in the fields and to consume liquor. According to
him, he was having love affair with the prosecutrix since February,
2012 and they used to meet each other regularly. He asked the
prosecutrix in the month of May, 2012 to marry him but she
refused saying that she wants to concentrate upon her career. He
had given various gifts like mobile phone, clothes etc. to the
prosecutrix and had also paid a sum of Rs.10,000/- as loan to her
friend Deepa. He further stated that one day in the month of
January, 2013, the prosecutrix asked him to reach her college for
the birthday party of her friend Priyanka Rana. Prosecutrix and her
friend came out of the college to meet him and all of them had
already consumed liquor. Prosecutrix was having a liquor bottle in
her bag and told him that he also would have to consume liquor or
otherwise, Priyanka would be annoyed. Thereafter, prosecutrix
asked him to start motorcycle and at her instance they reached
fields of Jagpal where they both consumed liquor. He became
intoxicated. They did not have sexual intercourse on that day. He,
however, admitted that they had physical relations with each
other earlier and it was with the will and consent of the
prosecutrix. He further stated that he got married in June, 2012,
which was within the knowledge of the prosecutrix and they had
intercourse with each other even after his marriage. The
prosecutrix used to ask him to divorce his wife and to marry her,
to which he was not agreeable and for that reason, she lodged a
false complaint against him. Prosecutrix had threatened him that SC No.139/13. Page 4 of 23 she would lodge a false complaint against him when he refused to
seek divorce from his wife and to marry her. 6. I have heard Ld. APP for State, Ld. Counsel for the
accused and have perused the entire material on record. 7. In cases involving the offence of rape, the testimony of
prosecutrix is the most vital and material piece of evidence. Her
statement if found to be worthy of credence and reliable, requires
no corroboration and court may convict the accused on her sole
testimony. A prosecutrix of sex offence cannot be put on par with
an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted unless it is
corroborated in material particulars. She is undoubtable and
competent witness under section 118 and her evidence must
receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of
physical violence. The same degree of care and caution must
attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an
injured complainant or witness and no more. In case involving
sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to
deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions
or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix
should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case. While evaluating evidence, the court must
remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self respecting
woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour. At the same time, it is also settled
position that if for some reason the court is hesitant to place
implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix, it may look SC No.139/13. Page 5 of 23 for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of
corroboration required in case of an accomplice. If the court of
facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix at its
face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial,
which would lend assurance to her testimony. ( See- State of
Maharashtra vs. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain , AIR
1990 SC 658, State of U.P. vs. Pappu @ Yunus and anr., AIR
2005 SC 1248, State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh and Ors.,
AIR 1966 SC 1393). 8. It would also be useful to keep in mind the following
observations of the Supreme Court made in Raju vs. State of
M.P. , (2008) 5 SCC 133 : 9. It can be aptly said that in cases involving sexual
assault upon women, the evidence of the victim should be of
sterling quality as the fate of the case depends upon the quality
and face value of her testimony. Who can be termed as a 'Sterling
Witness' has been dealt with in the case of Rai Sandeep @
Deepu vs. State of NCT of Delhi , 2012 (131) DRJ 3 (SC)
wherein the quality of the testimony of the prosecutrix, which can
be made as a basis to convict the Appellant, was considered in
detail and it was so held: 10. It also needs mention here that the Supreme Court in
Udai Vs. State of Karnataka AIR 2003 SC 1369, has held that
even in cases of rape, the onus is always on the prosecution to
prove affirmatively all the ingredients of the offence which it seeks
to establish and such onus never shifts. It is not the duty of the
defence to explain as to why and how the victim and the other
witnesses have falsely implicated the accused. The prosecution
case has to stand on its own legs and it cannot take the support
from the weakness of the case of defence. However, the great
suspicion against the accused and however strong the moral belief
and the conviction of the court, unless the offence of the accused
is established beyond reasonable doubt on the basis of legally
admissible evidence and the material on record,the conviction
cannot be ordered. There is initial presumption of innocence of the
accused and the prosecution has to bring home the offence
against the accused by reliable evidence. The accused is entitled
to benefit of every reasonable doubt. 11. Keeping in view the aforesaid golden principles laid by SC No.139/13. Page 9 of 23 the Supreme Court in mind, let me proceed to scrutinize the
evidence led by the prosecution in this case. 12. The most vital and material witness for the
prosecution in the instant case is the prosecutrix herself. She has
been examined as PW1. 13. She deposed that she met the accused for the first
time in April or May, 2012 in McDonald Restaurant, Rajouri
Garden, when she was introduced to him by her friend Mani.
Thereafter, they started chatting with each other on Face Book
and used to meet each other about once in a month. This
continued for 5 or 6 months. In the month of July or August, 2012,
the accused had taken her forcibly to the room of his friend/cousin
and committed sexual intercourse with her against her consent
and also prepared her nude video. Thereafter, the accused used to
ask her to subject to his sexual lust as and when he desired or
otherwise, he used to threaten that he would upload her nude
video on the internet. Whenever the accused met her at Bus Stop
or in the market, he used to create a scene by abusing her and
beating her. On account of threats given to her by the accused,
she had no option but to satisfy his sexual lust. The accused
committed forcible sexual intercourse with her on several
occasions in the rooms of his various friends and he used to
threaten her that in case, she did not oblige him he would kill her
as well as her parents. He also threatened her that in case she did
not accede to his demand of sexual intercourse, he would throw
acid upon her as well as her sister. This continued till December,
2012 when she came to know that the accused is already married. Thereafter, she stopped meeting him. However, accused used to
meet her at college as well as at Bus Stop. 14. She further deposed that one day in the month of
February, 2013, when she was present in her college, accused
called her from outside the college and threatened her that if she
did not come out immediately, he would kill her with a gun which
he was carrying. He also made calls to her friends on their mobile
phone and abused them also. When she came out of the college,
the accused took her forcibly to a room in fields in village Mitraon
where he forced her to consume liquor and thereafter committed
sexual intercourse with her against her wish. He also took her
signature as well as thumb impression on two blank papers saying
that he would use these in his defence if she initiated any criminal
action against him. She further deposed that after about 2 or 3
days of the aforesaid incident i.e. on 13.2.2013, she narrated her
ordeal to her sister-in-law (Bhabhi) on phone, who was residing at
Chennai alongwith her husband. The maternal aunt (Mausi) of the
accused called her Bhabhi at Chennai threatening her that if she
initiated any action against the accused, she would be kidnapped
from Chennai. 15. Prosecutrix further deposed that her brother
suggested her to make a call at telephone no.181 which she did at
night and three police officials came to their residence in the
morning on 14.2.2013. They recorded her statement and referred
her to P.S. Najafgarh as the incident had taken place in the
territorial jurisdiction of P.S. Najafgarh. They took her to P.S.
Najafgarh but from there, she was asked to go to P.S. Baba SC No.139/13. Page 11 of 23 Haridas Nagar. The police officials took her to P.S. Baba Haridas
Nagar where her statement was recorded which she proved as
Ex.PW1/A. From the police station, she was taken to RTRM Hospital
where she was medically examined. Doctor took into possession
her blue coloured panty and white coloured brasserie. As per the
explanation of IO ASI Savita, she reached the court the next day
where a Ld. Magistrate recorded her statement which she proved
as Ex.PW1/B. Next day, she took the police officials and showed
them the room in village Mitraon where she had been raped by the
accused. IO prepared site plan of the same which is Ex.PW1/C. The
police officials took photographs of the room and recovered
several pieces of papers which, when joined, formed two separate
pages, which were those on which the accused had taken her
signatures and thumb impressions. Accused had also put his
signatures on those papers. The mattress on the cot found in the
room as well as the aforesaid paper pieces were seized by the IO
in her presence. She identified the mattress, her undergarment
and the paper pieces during the course of her testimony in the
court. 16. In the cross examination, she deposed that Mani, who
had introduced her to the accused, is a girl and is her friend. She
knew Mani since the year 2011. She admitted that she used to
visit Malls and restaurants alongwith accused. According to her,
she had decided after about 2 or 3 months of her first meeting
with the accused at McDonald restaurant at Rajouri Garden that
now it is time to meet him again. She deposed that by the date her
gynaecological examination was conducted by the doctor in this
case, she did not know that the name of the accused is Gaurav SC No.139/13. Page 12 of 23 Sharma. She came to know for the first time in the court that his
name is Gaurav Sharma. She further deposed that the accused
had taken her to the rooms of his cousins Parkshit and Vineet.
According to her, the room of Vineet is at Uttam Nagar but she
could not tell the exact location. She did not know whether the
room of Parkshit was situated. She had shown the room of Vineet
to the police officials after 2 or 3 days of her medical examination
but could not trace the room of Parkshit. Police officials did not
make any inquiry from Vineet and Parkshit in her presence. She
further deposed that she had not told her parents, brother, Bhabhi
or any other relative till 13.2.2013 that the accused was having
forcible physical relations with her. She deposed that she used to
accompany accused on his motorcycle on several occasions to
Palam, Rajouri Garden, Connaught Place etc. Both she as well as
the accused used to make payment at the restaurants, Dhabas
etc. which they visited. She did not raise any alarm when she used
to be with the accused on his motorcycle. She stated voluntarily
that the accused used to keep her under his threat. She had not
told the names of her friends to the police, who used to receive
calls from the accused. She admitted that the accused had once
deposited a sum of Rs.10,000/- in the bank account of her friend
Deepa but denied that he did so on her asking. She stated that
Deepa had herself demanded money from the accused. 17. The prosecutrix was also confronted with her FIR
statement and statement u/s.164 Cr.PC wherein she had not
stated that the accused had threatened her that if she did not
accede to his demand of sexual intercourse, he would throw acid
on her as well as her sister; that in the month of February, 2013 SC No.139/13. Page 13 of 23 the accused had threatened her to come out of the college
immediately or otherwise, he would kill her with a gun which he
was carrying; that the accused had committed forcible sexual
intercourse with her in the rooms of his friends/cousins in July or
August, 2012 and also prepared her nude video; that the accused
had forced her to consume liquor in the fields of village Mitraon;
that the accused had taken her thumb impression on two blank
papers saying that he would use these in his defence if she
initiated any criminal action against him and that Mausi of the
accused had given threatening calls to her Bhabhi at Chennai that
she would be kidnapped from Chennai. 18. In order to appreciate the testimony of the prosecutrix
in proper perspective, I find it useful to produce the contents of
her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC Ex.PW1/B herein : 19. Another material witness for the prosecution is PW4
Sh. Jagpal, the owner of the room as well as fields where the
accused had taken the prosecutrix and committed rape upon her.
He did not remember the exact date of the incident and stated
that it was in the last week of January, 2013. He deposed that on
that day in the afternoon when he was irrigating his fields, he saw
two persons riding on a motorcycle going towards tubewell room
in his fields. They told him that they have come to see the fields
and want to take rest for sometime and also to consume liquor. He
permitted them to do so. He was looking towards them from a
distance and they started consuming liquor outside the room.
When he went nearer, he noticed that one of them was a girl and
both were wearing jeans and pant. The girl was also taking liquor.
Both of them got intoxicated and when he was about to leave, the SC No.139/13. Page 15 of 23 girl requested him to remain there for about ten minutes so that
her companion regained senses. Therefore, he remained there.
Since some passers-by had come by that way, the girl took her
companion inside the room for sometime. After sometime, when
the boy regained senses, he started the motorcycle but the
motorcycle fell on the ground as he was not able to control it. He
helped that boy to lift up the motorcycle and thereafter, both of
them left on the motorcycle. He further deposed after 15 to 20
days of the aforesaid incident, police officials came to his house
and he showed them the aforesaid tubewell room. He also
deposed that on the day when the boy and girl had come to his
room, the girl had taken out some papers from the pocket of the
boy, who had got drunk and had torn the same into pieces. The
police officials lifted those pieces of paper and also took into
possession the mattress, which was on the folding bed lying in the
room. He could not identify those papers pieces when shown to
him during his testimony but identified the mattress Ex.P1. He
identified the accused to be the boy, who alongwith the girl had
come to his tubewell room. 20. PW4 was declared hostile by Ld. APP on certain points
and in the cross examination conducted by Ld. APP, he was
confronted with the statement u/s.161 Cr.PC wherein he had not
mentioned that the accused and the girl had taken liquor near his
tubewell room and both of them had got intoxicated and the girl
had requested him to remain there for 10 minutes more and that
when the accused after regaining senses started the motorcycle
fell on the ground as he was not able to control it and he helped
them to lift up the motorcycle. 21. The testimony of the prosecutrix when read alongwith
her statements recorded during the course of investigation and in
conjunction with the testimony of PW-4, demonstrates that she is
not a trustworthy. Her testimony is not convincing and does not
inspire any confidence. From her FIR statement also it appears
that she is not serious about the allegations which she is levelling
against the accused. She vaguely states in that statement that the
accused had raped her on seven or eight occasions in different
rooms prior to the final incident of rape which had taken place
about two weeks before the lodging of FIR. She has not stated
when, where and in what circumstances did the accused commit
forcible sexual intercourse with her for the first time and how was
he able to repeat the same thereafter also. It is in her statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C Ex. PW1/B that she has tried to explain these acts
of forcible sexual by saying that the accused used to take her to
various rooms where he raped her and when she refused to oblige
him, he used to threaten her that he would make her video and
upload the same on the internet and would also kill her as well as
her family members. However, in this statement also she has left it
unexplained as to when, where and in what circumstances did the
accused commit rape upon her for the first time. 22. In her deposition before this Court as PW-1, she has
stated that in the month of July or August, 2012 the accused has
forcibly taken her to the room of his friend/cousin and committed
forcible sexual intercourse with her against her consent and also
made her nude video clip. She further deposed that thereafter the SC No.139/13. Page 17 of 23 accused used to compel her to subject to his sexual lust as and
when he desired or otherwise he would upload her nude video on
the internet and hence she had no option but to oblige the
accused. I find this too a very vague statement. It is not clear from
her testimony where had the accused met her on the day when he
raped her for the first time and what kind of force did he used to
compel her to accompany him to the room of his friend/cousin.
There is a marked contradiction in her aforesaid portion of
testimony as compared to her statements recorded during the
course of investigation. In the FIR she has not stated that the
accused had made her nude video clip and used to blackmail her
by threatening that he would upload the same on the internet in
case she did not oblige him. However, in statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C
Ex. PW1/B she states that accused threatened her that he would
make her video clip and upload the same on the internet whereas
in her deposition before the Court she has stated that the accused
had made her video clip on the basis of which he used to blackmail
her. Apart from the same, the prosecutrix nowhere states that she
had seen her nude video clip in the mobile phone or camera of the
accused. It is also not clear from her testimony whether accused
had prepared her nude video by mobile phone or by a camera and
if so, at what place. 23. In the cross examination the prosecutrix has, for the
first time come up with the names of the cousins of the accused as
Parikshit and Vineet saying that he had taken her to the rooms of
these two cousins and had raped her there. There is no
explanation from her side as to why did not she disclose the
names of these two cousins of the accused to the police officials SC No.139/13. Page 18 of 23 during the course of investigation. Though she deposes that she
had shown the room of Vineet to the police officials but the
testimony of IO does not corroborate her in this regard. 24. It is very strange that the prosecutrix has referred to
the accused by the name Mani in her statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C.
Ex. PW1/B whereas in her testimony before this Court she has
deposed that she was introduced to the accused by her friend
Mani in April or May, 2012 in Mcdonalds Restaurant in Rajouri
Garden. In cross examination, she has further explained the said
fact by saying that Mani is a girl and was her friend. Therefore, if
we go by the testimony of the prosecutrix, Mani and the accused
are two different persons but if we believe her statement u/s. 164 Cr.P.C, Mani is the accused himself. To complicate the matter
further, the prosecutrix has deposed in the cross examination that
she didn't know that the name of the accused is Gaurav Sharma
and she became aware about his name for the first time during the
hearing of this case in the Court. It is very difficult to accept that
the prosecutrix did not know the name of the person with whom
she had fallen in love and used to meet her regularly. At least her
friend Mani, who had introduced her to the accused for the first
time, would have definitely told her the name of the accused at
the time of introduction. These kind of confusing statements
coming from the prosecutrix only demonstrates that she is telling
lie at every step and has more to hide from this Court than she has
revealed before this Court. 25. The prosecutrix has admitted in her cross examination
that she used to accompany the accused on his motorcycle to SC No.139/13. Page 19 of 23 various places in Delhi, Malls and restaurants. This too makes the
allegations of rape highly improbable. 26. Now, according to the prosecutrix, the accused raped
her for the last time in the month of February, 2013 in a room in
the fields of PW4 Jagpal. She has deposed that the accused took
her forcibly on that day from her college at gun point to the
aforesaid room, forced her to consume liquor and then committed
rape upon her. However, PW4 has testified absolutely contrary to
her deposition. The testimony of the PW4 shows that prosecutrix
had voluntary accompanied the accused to the fields and she did
not seem to be under any threat or pressure. PW4 was there right
from the time accused alongwith prosecutrix arrived there upto
the time they left. He has described in detail everything that took
place between the two in the fields. His testimony does not
indicate that the accused and prosecutrix had engaged in sexual
intercourse in the room, not to speak of forcible sexual
intercourse. He was not declared hostile by the prosecution on this
point and no suggestion has been put to him in this regard in the
cross examination by Ld. APP. Infact the deposition of PW4
corroborate the version of the accused in his statement u/s. 313 Cr.P.C that both he as well as the prosecutrix consumed liquor in
the fields of PW4 and the accused became intoxicated but no
sexual intercourse took place between the two there. 27. There is nothing in the testimony of the prosecutrix as
to why did not she make a call at Tel. no. 100 on the same day or
why didn't she apprise her parents or brother about the incident of
rape on the same day. It is not her case that the accused had SC No.139/13. Page 20 of 23 threatened her not to disclose the incident to anybody. True it is
that, as per her deposition, the accused had taken her signature
and thumb impression on a blank paper but as per her own saying,
the accused intended to use the paper in his defence in a criminal
action. The accused had not issued any threats to her. The
prosecution had even torn that paper into pieces. 28. In this scenario, the delay of three days caused by the
prosecutrix in narrating the incident to her sister in law and in
reporting the matter to the police assumes importance. The delay
has not been satisfactorily explained and hence casts a cloud of
doubt upon the prosecution case. 29. It is stated by the prosecutrix that when she narrated
her ordeal on phone to her sister in law (bhabhi) who resided at
Channai, the maternal aunt (Mausi) of the accused started making
threatening calls to her Bhabi at Chennai that she would be
kidnapped if she initiated any action against the accused. I wonder
how the accused or his Mausi came to know that the prosecutrix
has confided with her Bhabhi at Chennai about her tale of misery.
Hence it seems to be highly unlikely that Mausi of accused made
any threatening calls to Bhabhi of prosecutrix. Where was the
occasion for the accused to make threatening calls to the
prosecutrix and her family members throughout on 13.02.13,
when he was totally unaware that the prosecutrix is going to lodge
a complaint against him on that day. 30. The prosecutrix has not mentioned her mobile number
on which she had received threatening calls or the mobile number SC No.139/13. Page 21 of 23 of the accused from which he used to call her. However, it is the
case of prosecution that accused was using mobile number
8802105355 and the prosecutrix was using mobile no.
9953056538. The call details of these two mobile numbers have
been proved by PW5 and PW6 respectively. Analysis of these call
details shows that no calls were exchanged between the two
numbers in January/February, 2013. However, it is evident from
the call detail records that numerous text messages were
exchanged between these two mobile numbers on daily basis. The
exchange of such large number of text messages indicates that
relations between the accused and prosecutrix were not confined
to only forcible sexual intercourse but probably they were in love
with each other. 31. Another fact which needs note is that the mattress Ex.
P1 which was seized by the IO from the room of PW4, when
examined in FSL, was not found to have any blood or semen
stains. It has to be recalled that this mattress was seized by the IO
at the instance of the prosecutrix, who must have said to IO that
she was raped by the accused on the same. Hence the FSL report
too does not support the prosecution case. 32. The seizure of paper pieces by the police from the
aforesaid room, which were found to have signature and thumb
impression of the accused as well as the prosecutrix, do not
advance the case of prosecution against the accused at all. 33. It is thus found that the testimony of the prosecutrix is
replete with embellishments and prevarications. It is neither SC No.139/13. Page 22 of 23 convincing nor inspires confidence. No reliance can be placed
upon the testimony of prosecutrix. Her deposition does not get
corroboration from other evidence on record including testimony
of PW4 and FSL Report. 34. Thus the prosecution has failed to prove the charges
against the accused beyond doubt. The accused is liable to be
acquitted and is hereby acquitted.