Ad: Our Data Protection Rules 2025 coverage is brought to you in partnership with K&S Digiprotect Services Pvt Ltd: Experts in DPDPA implementation, audits, training and regulatory support. Text us at 98116-74653, 98181-80981 or find more details here .

The draft Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Rules, 2025, explain how Data Principals (individuals whose data is being processed) can exercise their rights through identifiers provided by Data Fiduciaries (entities processing personal data). Identifiers include customer IDs, application references, or license numbers. The rules also outline procedures for data fiduciaries and consent managers for accessing information, erasure requests, and nominating representatives.

The DPDP Rules provide for the necessary details and implementation framework of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDPA), 2023. Read a summary of the DPDPA, 2023 here .

Under the draft Rules 2025, Data Fiduciaries and Consent Managers must:

The public consultation for the rules will close on February 18, 2025, and comments can be emailed here .

Requests to access information about personal data must follow procedures outlined by the Data Fiduciary. Access rights apply to individuals who have consented to data use or provided their data without explicitly withholding consent. The Data Fiduciary may require specific identifiers (e.g., customer IDs, application numbers) to authenticate the request. The DPDPA, 2023 states that:

Data Principals can request to erase their personal data by contacting the Data Fiduciary. The Rules also have a provision for Data Fiduciaries to erase personal data if the Data Principal does not engage with the Fiduciary for a specified time provided that there is no legal obligation requiring the Fiduciary to retain the data.

The retention period varies by the type of Data Fiduciary, as defined in Schedule III. For example:

Data fiduciaries and consent managers must establish a grievance redressal mechanism and publish the timeframe for addressing grievances. They must implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure timely responses.

If grievances remain unresolved, individuals may approach the Data Protection Board after exhausting these mechanisms.

The Data Principal can nominate individuals (e.g., family members) to act on their behalf for data-related matters.

The nomination process must adhere to the Data Fiduciary’s terms of service and relevant laws. The Data Fiduciary must publish procedures for nomination, including the required details.

Under Section 14 of the DPDPA, 2023 , individuals have the right to nominate another person to exercise their rights as a data principal in case of death or incapacity. Incapacity refers to the inability to exercise these rights due to unsoundness of mind or physical infirmity. This provision protects an individual’s data rights even in situations where they cannot act on their own behalf.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event