Heard learned counsel for the petitioner, learned

 counsel for the State and counsel for the Central Selection

 Board, Bihar, Patna. 2. Counsel for the petitioner submits that the present

 writ petition has been filed for acceptance of the joining of the

 petitioner pursuant to the selection made in the light of

 Advertisement No. 01 of 2017 for Samastipur District Police

 Force. Patna High Court CWJC No.2947 of 2020(4) dt.25-01-2024 2/4 3. Counsel submits that in pursuant of the

 Advertisement No. 01 of 2017 published by Central Selection

 Board, Bihar, Patna, petitioner appeared for the post of

 constable and she was selected and joining letter has been

 issued, but at the time of joining, she was taken into custody and

 criminal case has been lodged. Subsequently, she came out from

 jail and tried her level best, but she was not permitted to join

 and due to which she filed writ petition. 4. Counsel for the Central Selection Board on the

 other hand submits that petitioner was declared successful out of

 9900 vacancies. She has considered under the recommendation

 of the successful candidates for appointment on the post of

 constable to the concerned authority. But being successful

 candidate, all original documents for appointment on the post of

 constable had sent to the Superintendent of Police and direction

 for appointment of selected candidates was made. During

 verification of her document, it was found that signature of

 petitioner was not matching with the signature made by the

 petitioner on documents during nomination and she was not

 even able to read and write anything. Upon verification of the

 application form and other documents, doubt has been created

 and for that a Committee was constituted under the direction of
 Patna High Court CWJC No.2947 of 2020(4) dt.25-01-2024 3/4 Dy. Superintendent of Police for verification of petitioner and

 other candidates. The said Committee after personal verification

 of the petitioner and other six candidates through biometric

 method, found that hand writing of the petitioner was not

 matched with the signature present on OMR sheets of written

 examination and on this ground, F.I.R. has been lodged against

 the petitioner and on her helper scholar for committing fraud,

 and as such, the candidature of the petitioner has been cancelled

 with allegation that the written examination for constable

 recruited under Advertisement No. 01 of 2017, has been made

 by fraud and forgery and she was not permitted to join the said

 post. 5. Counsel for the State submits that Annexure-D of

 the counter-affidavit, is the letter dated 30.07.2018 contained in

 memo No. 1161 by which the deficiency of the petitioner has

 been shown. 6. By virtue of the pleadings made, it transpires to this

 Court that opportunity of hearing to the petitioner has not been

 granted at any stage. As such, this writ petition is disposed off

 directing the petitioner to represent before the Superintendent of

 Police, Samastipur showing the reasons as to why her signature

 in the examination hall on OMR sheet as well as her signature
 Patna High Court CWJC No.2947 of 2020(4) dt.25-01-2024 4/4 taken by authority are mismatching and she was not in a

 position to read and write by way of filing representation within

 30 days along with this order and the Superintendent of Police,

 Samastipur is directed to pass a reasoned and speaking order

 within 90 days thereafter. 7. With the aforesaid direction, the present writ

 application is hereby disposed off. (Dr. Anshuman, J.)
Prakashmani/- U