The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has, for the first time, incorporated data from the Digital Crop Survey (DCS) into the First Advance Estimates for Kharif crops in 2024-25. This shift to digital data collection aligns with the government’s intent towards the digitisation of agricultural data collection.

The DCS, conducted under the Digital Agriculture Mission in collaboration with state governments, replaces the traditional manual Girdawari system. It integrates technologies like remote sensing, geospatial analysis and artificial intelligence in generating crop production statistics, reported The Hindu. DCS intends to improve the reliability of crop area data, reduce human error and increase efficiency.

Four major states— Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Odisha— applied the DCS-based estimates. These states covered 100% of their districts under the DCS for Kharif 2024. This reportedly resulted in a substantial increase in the reported area under rice production, particularly in Uttar Pradesh.

Previously, concerns have been reported about the DCS by many Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs). AEOs in Telangana launched an agitation over increased workload, and harassment by higher officials over the DCS survey process, reported The New Indian Express .

The protest followed the department’s decision to suspend 170 AEOs for allegedly neglecting the Digital Crop Survey. The DCS requires AEOs to map crops in 12 states using GPS and online databases. In Telangana, AEOs are tasked with surveying 5,000 acres each, covering 12,000 grama panchayats. AEOs complain about the strain of conducting surveys alone and the lack of an additional workforce. They also faced technical issues, such as limited internet access.

The Central government’s guidelines suggest involving local staff, but AEOs allege that they are burdened with the entire responsibility.

In September this year, the Union Cabinet Committee approved the Digital Agriculture Mission. The budget for the mission is Rs 2,817 crore, including Rs 1,940 crore from the Central Government. The mission includes creating Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) such as AgriStack, Krishi Decision Support System, and Soil Profile Mapping. AgriStack aims to establish a Farmer ID, a digital identity linked to land records, demographics, crops, and schemes. This initiative targets 11 crore farmers by 2027.

It was reported that a digital crop survey will collect data on crops sown across India. The government piloted the Digital Crop Survey in 11 states in 2023-24 to support the Crop Sown Registry and plans to expand it nationwide by 2025-26. In FY 2024-25, the survey aimed to cover 400 districts, with full coverage expected by the following year.

The data will help government agencies work on “MSP-based procurement, crop insurance, and credit card-linked crop loans, and develop systems for the balanced use of fertilizers, etc.,” stated the press release.

Other government rural digitization efforts, such as Bhu-Naksha for land records, have faced scrutiny over issues like accurate mapping to physical boundaries, insufficient documentation, and risks of digital record manipulation. Current regulations lack clarity on how citizens can challenge inaccuracies, raising concerns about their options for correction. Additionally, no grievance redressal mechanism has been provided for individuals encountering errors or disputes in digitized records, leaving them without guidance on addressing mistakes or seeking assistance.

The Digital Crop Survey (DCS), faces several challenges that could impact its effectiveness and reliability.

Read More:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event