SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: New fraud related to cash on delivery, long read
DATE: 2023-07-23
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/157f3kr/new_fraud_related_to_cash_on_delivery_long_read/

--- POST TEXT ---

I generally don’t do cash on delivery. And I just got another reason I would never order anything with cash on delivery.

My mother ordered a sari on 17th on flipkart worth rs 804. Yesterday we got a delivery in the morning for 800 and another in the evening by an ekart delivery person in the evening for 804. My mom paid for both. Now started the part where we started looking which app the first order was from, 2nd one was obviously the original flipkart one.

We just assumed that my mom ordered the other one from some lesser known app like meesho or some shit. In her phone we found a msg from shadowfax where it said an order was booked the same day the original order was done. On calling the number in the tracking page, they started asking account number, my sister was on this call, she refused to give the account no on phone. Then they asked her to install some falana desk app on her phone and share screen. Now she was sure they were frauds and she disconnected.

I am pretty sure how they did this. They have access to the flipkart account my mother uses, when they saw the original order they ordered the same amount order from some random ass seller to the same address. I am closing this account soon.

Coming to the original flipkart order, we didn’t like that too and decided to return. Now the interesting part is, the delivery guy hasn’t marked the package delivered. And to do it manually I need the invoice number on the package, which very conveniently is faded. Now I also think the ekart delivery person is also involved in all of this.

A quick google search of shadowfax revealed multiple such frauds. I fucking despise flipkart now after realising they don’t have the option to set password on phone, only otp and they also don’t provide option to see how many devices has this account logged in.

So guys, satark rahe and avoid cod. We lost 800 bucks but it’s nothing compared to what some other people have lost with the same kind of fraud attempts. 

891-0634711 - no of the guy asking to install the app