IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
 CWP No. 9492 of 2014
 Judgment Reserved on 10.8.2015

 . The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Mansoor Ahmad Mir, Chief Justice.
 The Hon'ble Mr. Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 Yes. For the Petitioner: 2. The facts in brief may be noticed: 3. It is averred by the petitioner that the respondents have

 failed to maintain transparency and therefore, the entire process stands

 vitiated and should be quashed and set aside. In addition thereto the

 selection has also been challenged on the following amongst other

 grounds:- . Technical Services Board are headed by one Hon'ble

 Minister. (d) Respondent No. 3 was not having particular

 expertise available with it to conduct the selection. of (e) Panel of paper setters is provided by respondent

 No. 2 to respondent No. 3 which has no nexus sought to
 rt
 be achieved. (f) Though the test is to be conducted by respondent

 No. 3 but yet interviews are to be again conducted by

 respondent No. 2, resulting in illegal selection. (g) Before conducting interviews result of screening

 test have been illegally handed over by respondent No. 3

 to respondent No. 2. (h) Respondent No. 2 has continuously interfered in

 the selection conducted by respondent No. 3. (i) There are certain candidates whose addresses

 are through missing in their admit cards yet they have

 been interviewed and selected. 4. The Corporation in its reply after raising certain preliminary

 objections has categorically maintained that it has ensured complete

 transparency in the entire selection process. . 5. The H.P. Technical Education Board, which has been

 arrayed as respondent No. 3 has in its reply averred that it has sufficient

 experience in the field of conducting the entrance tests/screening tests

 and therefore, the task of filling up the posts of TMPAs was rightly

 of
 assigned to it by the Corporation. It is further claimed that it had earlier

 conducted the screening tests for the recruitment of Pump Operators,
 rt
 which was entrusted to it by the Irrigation and Public Health Department. It also maintained that the entire process in the instant case was carried

 out in a transparent, impartial and secret manner and no complaint of any

 kind of any irregularity was ever received. 6. The H.P. Subordinate Service Selection Board, i.e.

 proforma respondent No. 5 in its reply maintained that except for

 recruitment of some posts which have specifically been kept out of its

 purview by the State Government, it has been assigned the task of

 making recruitments of all Class-III posts of all Government Departments,

 Boards, Corporations etc. and for this purpose has relied upon Sub Rule

 4.2 of the Rules of Business and Procedure of the Board, which provides

 "all such Class-III posts of the State Public Sector Undertaking, Boards,

 Corporations, Universities and Local Bodies as may be entrusted to the ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:09 :::HCHP 5 Board by such Boards/Corporations/Universities and Local Bodies etc.

 keeping in view the Acts and byelaws governing them". We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and

 . have gone through the records of the case as also the instructions and

 other records, including records of selection as were made available to us

 at the time of final hearing. 7. The learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently

 of
 contended that respondent No. 2, Himachal Pradesh Road Transport

 Corporation Limited is admittedly constituted under the provisions of
 rt Road Transport Corporation Act, 1950 (for short the "Act") and is,

 therefore, bound by the directions issued by the State Government from

 time to time, more particularly the directions relating to recruitment,

 condition of service etc., of its employees. He would contend that State

 Government vide notification dated 6th October, 1998 had issued general

 instructions, whereby all the State Public Sector Undertakings, Boards,

 Corporations, Universities and Local Bodies were directed to fill up all

 Class-III posts, falling within their purview only through respondent No. 5. 8. Respondent No. 5 in turn has supported this claim of the

 petitioner and would contend that respondent No. 5, Board in fact has

 been primarily constituted to make appointments to Class-III posts in all

 Public Sector Undertakings including respondent No. 2, Corporation. 9. It is not in dispute that as per Section 34 of the Act, the

 State Government has been vested with power to give directions to the ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 6 Corporations by way of general instructions, which are required to be

 followed by the Corporations and such instructions may include directions

 relating to recruitment, condition of service and training of its employees

 . etc. Section 34 of the Act reads thus:- 10. However, the moot question is as to whether the

 notification issued on 6.10.1998 (supra) can be considered to be

 "directions" issued by the State government, as contemplated under Section 34 of the Act. The relevant portion of this notification reads

 thus:- and Physically Handicapped; (vi) Such other posts, as may, from time to time, be excluded by
 the State Govt. from the purview of the Board. (2) All such Class.III posts of the State Public Sector,
 Undertakings, Boards, Corporations, Universities and Local Bodies etc.
 as may be entrusted to the Board by such Boards, Corporations,

 of
 Universities and Local Bodies etc. keeping in view the Acts and
 Byelaws governing them." 11. Here we may also note that the State Government vide
 rt
 notification dated 28.1.2004 has framed "Rules of Business & Procedure" 12. Now in case the notification dated 6.10.1998 (supra) is

 minutely perused, it reveals that it is far too general in nature and makes

 no specific reference to the Himachal Pradesh Road Transport

 Corporation and therefore, mere mentioning of the "Corporations" in the

 notification would not make it applicable to all the Corporations, unless it

 is further proved that the notification was in fact issued after consultation

 with the respondent-Corporation, as envisaged under Section 34 of the

 Act. 13. Similar issue came up before the Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh

 High Court regarding the applicability of a Government order issued by

 the State Government of Andhra Pradesh laying down policy to be ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 8 adopted by Public Sector Undertakings for payment of stipend to direct

 recruitees as trainees. There was no reference of Andhra Pradesh State

 Road Transport Corporation or its being consulted in the Government

 . order and it was held by learned Single Judge that mere mentioning of all

 Public Sectors at the beginning of the Government order would not make

 it applicable to all the Public Sector Undertakings and accordingly the

 order was held to be beyond the purview of Section 34 of the Act. of 14. The judgment of learned Single Judge was affirmed by

 learned Division Bench and finally when the matter was carried before the
 rt
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in case reported as A. Srinath and others Vs.

 A.P. State Road Transport Corporation and others , (2002) 9 SCC

 750, it was held that the employees of the Corporations would be

 governed by the Rules and Regulations framed by the Corporations, as it

 was creation of statute and Government orders relating to the condition of

 service, as such, would not apply to the Corporation employees. It was

 observed as under:- 15. In view of the aforesaid, it can safely concluded that the

 instructions issued vide notification dated 6th October, 1998 cannot be

 held to be directions as contemplated under Section 34 of the Act. 16. In this background, the next question which then falls for

 our consideration is as to on what basis was the advertisement inviting

 applications for filing up the posts of TMPAs issued on 18.7.2014 and

 published in newspapers i.e. Divya Himachal and Tribune. 17. As per the minutes of the 126th meeting relating to

 appointment of TMPAs, the Rules were yet under contemplation and had

 been ordered to be finalized by a committee consisting of Principal ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 10 Secretary (Transport), Managing Director, HRTC and Executive Director,

 HRTC and at the same time the process earlier initiated for recruitment of

 Conductors (on contract basis) on 12.7.2012 and 20.5.2015 had been

 . ordered to be cancelled. It is apt to reproduce relevant agenda item,

 which reads thus:- 18. Why the issuance of advertisement assumes great

 relevance in the instant case is because admittedly despite there being

 of
 no mechanism in place whether by way of guidelines, draft Rules, or even

 a decision by any authority, much less a competent authority, the
 rt
 advertisement surprisingly lays down certain conditions with respect to

 age and other eligibility conditions and also makes reference to the

 reservation etc. Here it would be apt to reproduce the relevant extract of

 the advertisement, annexed with the reply as Annexure R-1, which reads

 thus:- 3. Category-wise number of vacancies is mentioned below:- It is evident from clause 7 of the advertisement that last date for receipt of

 application was 14.8.2014, whereas the Rules came to be finalized and

 notified only on 30.8.2014. 19. Now, in absence of any rules, regulations, executive

 orders, guidelines or instructions or even a decision by a competent

 authority, how the aforesaid qualifications came to be incorporated in the

 advertisement, is anybody's guess. When called upon, the learned

 counsel for respondent No. 2 was at a total loss to explain this position

 and has candidly conceded that he could not improve the position, as

 was available on record. 20. It is a trite that an important requirement of public

 appointment is that of transparency. Therefore, the advertisement is

 required to specify the Rules or instructions under which the applications

 . are being invited and upon the basis of which the selection is to be made. The advertisement has essentially to comply with the procedure

 prescribed in the Rules or guidelines of selection. 21. The requirement of the advertisement being in

 of
 consonance to the procedure adopted for conducting the selection is

 necessary to prevent arbitrariness and to avoid change of criteria of
 rt
 procedure during or after the selection process. The absence of arbitrary

 power is the first postulate of rule of law upon which our whole

 constitutional edifice is based. In a system governed by rule of law,

 discretion when conferred upon an executive authority must be confined

 within clearly defined limits. If the discretion is exercised without any

 principle or without any rule, it is a situation amounting to the antithesis of

 rule of law. Discretion means sound discretion guided by law or

 governed by known principles of rules and not by the whim or fancy or

 caprice of the authority. 22. Learned counsel for respondent No. 2 would however

 vehemently argue that the advertisement has no relevance in view of the

 Rules now formulated by it under Section 45 of the Act. 23. Before adverting to the provisions of Section 45 of the Act,

 it is necessary to examine certain other provisions of the Act, which have ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 14 important bearing on the subject matter of the instant case. Section 2(b) defines "Corporation" to mean the Road Transport Corporation

 established under Section 3 of the Act. Section 3 relates to

 . establishment of Road Transport Corporation in States. Under Section 4 ,

 every Corporation shall be a body corporate, by the name notified under Section 3 , having perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall by

 the said name sue and be sued. Section 5 relates to the management of

 of
 the Corporation and to its Board of Directors and under Sub-section (1),

 the general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs
 rt
 and business of a Corporation shall vest in a Board of Directors which,

 with the assistance of its committees and Managing Director, may

 exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be

 exercised or done by the Corporation. Section 45 relates to the power to

 make regulations and reads as under:- . Financial Adviser]; [(d) the issue of passes to the employees of the Corporation and
 other persons under section 19 ; (e) the grant of refund in respect of unused tickets and concessional
 passes under section 19 .]" 24. Undoubtedly, Section 45 of the Act empowers the

 Corporation to make regulations, but that is subject to the previous (i)
 rt
 sanction of the State Government. This necessarily requires three steps:- This third step is necessary because the expression "previous sanction of

 the State Government" necessarily denotes that the Corporation in order

 to "make" the regulation has to do something "after" the sanction of the

 State Government. To put it differently the "previous sanction" is a step ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 16 earlier than the "making of the regulations." (refer M.P.S.R.T.C.

 Bairagarh Bhopal Vs. Ramchandra and others , AIR 1977 M.P. 243)

 (FB). Indisputably, none of the aforesaid processes has been followed

 . by respondent No. 2 before issuing notification dated 30.8.2014. 25. The power conferred on the Corporation to make

 regulations is a power which, under Section 5(1) , vests in and is

 exercised by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Whereas, the

 of
 power to make regulations relating to the conditions of service of officers

 and other employees of the corporation, under Section 45(2)(c) is vested
 rt
 in the Board of Directors of the Corporation and such a power to make

 regulations (commonly termed as Rules by the Corporation) can only be

 exercised with the previous sanction of the State Government. 26. Once statute is clear and unambiguous and clearly uses

 the words "previous sanction", there can be no matter of doubt that before

 resorting to any exercise which would fall within the purview of Section 45 of the Act, the concurrence of the State Government is required whereas

 the records reveal that no such sanction has been obtained. Therefore, it

 can safely be concluded that the so called Rules/regulations have not

 legally come into force. 27. It is more than settled that public offices, both big and

 small, are sacred trusts. Such offices are meant for use and not abuse

 and in case large scale fraud is committed so as to shock the conscious

 of the Court, then the law is not that powerless and would step into quash ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 17 the entire selection. This was so observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in Krishan Yadav and another Vs. State of Haryana and others (1994)

 4 SCC 165 as under:- of
 (Timon of Athens, Act IV, Sc. 3) 17. It may not be too much to draw an inference that all these were
 motivated by extraneous considerations. Otherwise, how does one
 rt
 account for selection without interview, fake and ghost interviews,
 tampering with the final records, fabricating documents, forgery? Each

 of this would attract the penal provisions of Indian Penal Code . They
 have been done with impunity. 18. The story does not end here. From out of the "selection list" secret
 Communications have been sent to the candidates. Selections were

 made without medical test or verification of antecedents. 19. It is highly regrettable that the holders of public offices both big and

 small have forgotten that the offices entrusted to them are sacred trusts.
 Such offices are meant for use and not abuse. From a Minister to a

 menial everyone has been dishonest to gain undue advantages. The
 whole examination and the interview have turned out to be farcical
 exhibiting base character of those who have been responsible for this

 sordid episode. It shocks our conscience to come across such a
 systematic fraud. It is somewhat surprising the High Court should have
 taken the path of least Resistance stating, in view of the destruction of
 records, that it was helpless. It should have helped itself. Law is not that
 powerless. 20. In the above circumstances, what are we to do? The only proper
 course open to us is to set aside the entire selection. The plea was
 made that innocent candidates should not be penalised for the ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 18 misdeeds of others. We are unable to accept this argument. When the
 entire selection is stinking, conceived in fraud and delivered in deceit,
 individual innocence has no place as "fraud unravels everything". To
 put it in other words, the entire selection is arbitrary. It is that which is

 . faulted and not the individual candidates. Accordingly we hereby set

 aside the selection of Taxation Inspectors. 24. All these efforts by us are aimed at cleansing the public

 administration. No doubt, it may be stupendous task but we do hope
 this small step will make great strides in the days to come. Accordingly,
 the appeals stand allowed." of 28. In M.P. State Coop. Bank Ltd., Bhopal Vs. Nanuram

 Yadav and others (2007) 8 SCC 264 the Hon'ble Supreme Court has
 rt
 culled out the following principles to be followed in the matter of public

 appointments:- . (7) If the mischief played so widespread and all pervasive, affecting
 the result, so as to make it difficult to pick out the persons who
 have been unlawfully benefited or wrongfully deprived of their

 selection, it will neither be possible nor necessary to issue
 individual show-cause notice to each selectee. The only way out
 would be to cancel the whole selection. of
 (8) When the entire selection is stinking, conceived in fraud and
 delivered in deceit, individual innocence has no place and the
 rt entire selection has to be set aside." 29. Respondent No. 2 being creation of statute is admittedly a

 State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India and

 cannot therefore, act like a private individual, who can act in a manner

 whatsoever he likes, unless it is interdicted or prohibited by law. Rather

 its power as an employer are more limited than that of a private employer

 inasmuch as it is subject to constitutional limitations and cannot be

 exercised arbitrarily. It is trite that the State and its instrumentalities

 have to act strictly within the four corners of law and all its activities are

 governed by rules, regulations and instructions. It is more then settled

 that when a statutory authority is required to do a thing in a particular

 manner then the same must be done in that manner or not at all. 30. Now once it is established that there was no credible

 mechanism in place whether, by way of guidelines, rules, regulations or ::: Downloaded on - 15/04/2017 18:51:10 :::HCHP 20 instructions, or even a decision by any authority, much less a competent

 authority on the basis of which the advertisement for filling up the posts of

 TMPAs has been issued and thereafter the selection conducted, the

 . entire process of selection as undertaken by respondent No. 2 stands

 vitiated and is therefore, declared as null and void, besides being

 arbitrary and is accordingly set aside. In such circumstances, the other

 contentions as raised in this petition are rendered academic and

 of
 therefore, need not be adverted to. Accordingly, the writ petition is allowed, leaving the
 rt
 parties to bear their costs. (Mansoor Ahmad Mir),
 Chief Justice.