The Competition Commission of India (CCI) imposed a cumulative penalty of Rs.2.69 crore on UFO Moviez, its subsidiary Scrabble Digital, and Qube Cinema Technologies on April 16, along with non-monetary sanctions for their anti-competitive practices.

These companies’ actions resulted in creation of entry barriers for Post-Production Processing (PPP) companies and restricted theatres from screening third-party content.

CCI found the companies guilty of violating Section 3(4) of the Competition Act, 2002 . This section prohibit a company from forming agreements that have adverse effects on competition in India. These agreements include tie-in arrangements, and exclusive dealing/distribution agreements.

The Commission directed these three entities to not re-enter lease agreements with Cinema Theatre Operators (CTOs) imposing restrictions on supply of content from other parties. CCI further ordered that existing agreements with CTOs shall be modified so that they do not impose any such restrictions.

CCI found the companies guilty of creating an appreciable adverse effect on competition (AAEC). This refers to business practices that significantly reduce or harm competition in a market.

UFO and Qube have a vertical relationship with CTOs, and a similar relationship exists between producers, PPP service providers and CTOs, as per CCI’s investigation.

UFO-owned Scrabble Digital Ltd. provides post-production services, including DCP (Digital Cinema Processing) mastering, cloning, and logistics. Scrabble being the subsidiary of UFO, it enabled the UFO to expand its reach beyond content delivery to theatres.

The commission found that UFO and Qube have a duopoly in the market. UFO and Qube almost have a 40% and 48% share respectively in the market for DCI-Compliant DCEs (Digital Cinema Initiative Compliant Digital Cinema Equipment), according to the data provided to CCI by the Central Bureau of Communication.

Notably, Scrabble Digital Ltd. also provides digital content services to “90% Digital cinemas across India,” it claims on its website .

Denying the CCI’s report claiming its market power, UFO Moviez stated that “market shares are insufficient to infer market power.”

In 2019, the case against UFO Moviez, its subsidiary Scrabble Digital and Qube Cinema Technologies was filed by PF Digital Media Services and Ravinder Walia, the producer of the Nawazuddin Siddiqui -starrer ‘Roam Rome Mein’. PF Digital Media Services was involved in the post-production processing of the film.

In the same year, the case was withdrawn from the Delhi High Court (HC) in order to register a formal complaint with the CCI.

Niraj Sanghai, Director of PF Digital Media, said that only UFO/Qube approved content was being allowed to play in theatres which had cinema equipment installed by UFO and Qube. “What UFO and Qube did is, when we supplied the content, they came to know that this business is being taken over by Prime Focus. They inserted a firmware which is like blockage into the server because of which any content which is given by Prime Focus will not play in the theatre.

“So, they even wrote emails to the companies like Viacom that they cannot work with PF and if they work with PF then their content will not be played in the theatres. So, they put this firewall in the software so that if PF sends any content to the theatres, it will not play,” testified Niraj Sanghai to CCI.

In 2002, Digital Cinema Initiatives, LLC. (DCI) was founded by seven international studios: Disney, Fox, MGM, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Universal Studios and Warner Brothers Studios. This consortium was founded with an aim of standardising digital cinema formats.

No one should tamper with these standards to claim a monopolised market, noted CCI while listing out the facts in this case. This reiterates Niraj Sanghai’s idea of DCI being like the internet.

Referring to the Digital Cinema Initiative, Sanghai said: “It is an open source software developed by the international studios which is a free software. Nobody can tamper with it. It is like the internet.

“But UFO and Scrabble, these companies put a firmware into this so that my KDM which I generate does not play in the theatre.”

While explaining their stance, UFO and Qube revealed their three modes of operations:

Qube Technologies also pointed out that it delivers E-cinema equipment, the non-DCI compliant format which is more popular in small towns and cities. These are usually 2K resolution screens, instead of standardised 4K resolution.

Without denying the allegations of locking the theatre owners with their proprietary content, Qube said that the theatre owners are subject to shell out Rs.20,000 once if they want to play any third-party content. CCI didn’t find this argument tenable as this clause “does not vest any choice with the CTO to procure content from third parties.”

In this case, Yash Raj Films noted that third-party Key Delivery Message (KDM), which is required to play an encrypted film, is blocked by UFO, Qube, and Scrabble for their equipment.

Elsewhere, Reliance Entertainment said: “When we tried to avail services of Prime Focus, the KDM provided by Prime Focus would not work in the DCEs because of some encryption done between UFO Moviez and theatres, causing the shows to be cancelled and huge losses to distributor/producers.” It also claimed that Scrabble charged them much higher than other service providers.

Furthermore, T-Series stated: “The limited number of DCSPs prevailing in the market does have an adverse effect on our business. There is high pricing due to high demand and lack of bargaining power to negotiate the same.”

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event