1. Heard Sri Amit Daga, learned counsel for the applicant as well as Sri Jai Kishan Chaurasia, learned State Law Officer for the State and perused the record. 2. Applicant seeks bail in Case Crime No.191 of 2023, under Sections 376 , 420 , 506 I.P.C. and Section 66E of Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008, Police Station- Expressway, District- Gautam Buddh Nagar, during the pendency of trial. PROSECUTION STORY: 3. The applicant is stated to be posted as SRM in Indusind Bank at Noida and the victim is stated to be employed in ICICI Prudential Insurance Company, as such both got well acquainted with each other. The applicant is stated to be a person with criminal antecedents and his modus operandi was to entangle ladies in his net and get their nude videos recorded and blackmail them. 4. The applicant is stated to have made a nude video of the victim herein by his mobile and has even made it viral by sending it to other persons. The applicant is stated to have taken Rs.1,60,000/- from the informant as extortion money, lest he shall make the said video viral. 5. The applicant is stated to be a married person and by concealing the said fact he used to blackmail the ladies by recording their indecent videos. The informant got to know that applicant had an indecent video of one another lady belonging to Delhi and had blackmailed her also and had taken Rs.1,50,000/- from her. The informant is stated to have provided the said video in a pendrive to the police at the time of institution of FIR. 6. The FIR was instituted on 7.11.2023 at 14:43 hours. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF APPLICANT: 7. The applicant is absolutely innocent and has been falsely implicated in the present case. 8. The allegations are false as there is no transaction of money transfer to the account of the applicant. 9. The said other lady belonging to Delhi has not been produced before the Investigating Officer. Her statement has been recorded telephonically by the Investigating Officer, as such it cannot be taken into consideration. Even there is nothing on record to suggest that applicant had taken an amount of Rs.1,50,000/- from the said lady. 10. The victim herein has got her statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. only and has plainly refused to get her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. She has stated that her statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. is enough. 11. The pendrive received by the Investigating Officer has not been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory for analysis. 12. Even the said pendrive provided to the police has not been played by the Investigating Officer as there is no mentioning of having seen the said pendrive by the Investigating Officer. 13. The Investigating Officer did not care to take into possession the mobile of the applicant or the victim to get the said fact established whether there was any obscene video prepared by the applicant or not. 14. The Investigating Officer has also failed to collect any obscene video of the said other lady belonging to Delhi. 15. The Investigating Officer has also failed to obtain any certificate as per the provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, as such the said pendrive cannot be relied upon. 16. The screenshots pertaining to alleged conversation between the applicant, victim herein and the another girl belonging to Delhi on WhatsApp Messenger has not been verified or confirmed from the concerned agency. The WhatsApp messages do not carry any evidentiary value in the eyes of law. 17. The criminal history of one case assigned to the applicant stands explained as he is on bail in the said Case Crime No.180 of 2017, registered under Sections 493 , 506 I.P.C., Police Station Sector-49, District Gautam Buddh Nagar. 18. The applicant is languishing in jail since 9.11.2023 and is ready to cooperate with trial. In case, the applicant is released on bail, he will not misuse the liberty of bail. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF STATE/OPPOSITE PARTY: 19. The bail application has been opposed on the ground that modus operandi of the applicant is that he establishes corporeal relationship with young ladies on the false promise of marriage and records the video of the said act and blackmails them. 20. There is evidence against the applicant of having blackmailed the victim herein and another lady belonging to Delhi. 21. The applicant is wanted in another Case Crime No.180 of 2017, registered under Section 376 I.P.C. at Police Station- New Ashok Nagar, District- East Delhi and the modus operandi in the said case was also the same as the applicant had demanded Rs.10 lakhs and a car from the said victim as mentioned in the said FIR. 22. The applicant is a habitual offender by committing offences of similar nature. The applicant has ruined the life of bright young lady by luring her into his trap, as such he is not entitled for bail. CONCLUSION: 23. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, the evidence on record, taking into consideration that there is an obscene video given by the victim to the Investigating Officer coupled by the fact that there is evidence against the applicant of having blackmailed two other ladies including an FIR instituted at Delhi, I do not find it a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant. 24. The bail application is found devoid of merits and is, accordingly, rejected. 25. It is clarified that the observations made herein are limited to the facts brought in by the parties pertaining to the disposal of bail application and the said observations shall have no bearing on the merits of the case during trial. Order Date :- 28.8.2024/ Vikas
 
(Justice Krishan Pahal)