SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Need help! Messed up by trying to contact an Escort/Call girl service
DATE: 2022-06-25
SCORE: 742
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/vk6hu8/need_help_messed_up_by_trying_to_contact_an/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm 22 year old single guy, just graduated out of college last year. I never had much luck with dating apps in general, and everywhere I look, all my friends and cousins in my age group had a partner, so I decided to approach an escort service agency and just do it (have sex).

I came across a website that claimed to do this, and I got in touch with them. We had a conversation over WhatsApp, and the agent sent me a list of women that I could choose from after paying very little money. He gave me the location of the hotel to visit the next day. Since this was my first time, I had a lot of doubts and worries like whether the women were regularly tested, are they over 20, etc. He eventually convinced me to go ahead with it

Also, I was kind of surprised as it was actually a 5-star hotel, and the price was too good to be true. I wish I had backed out here, but I went ahead. He also told me that I need to pay the actual price of the service (this is in addition to what I paid earlier) after I reach the hotel once the woman actually arrives. I drove there the next day after purchasing a condom on the way since I was really afraid of catching STI's and that was the last thing that I wanted.

I called him after I reached the hotel, and he told me that I needed to pay extra for some verification, security deposit, insurance, etc... before entering the hotel (Yes, at this point I was still outside the hotel, didn't even get in). Don't ask me why, but I ended up making all these payments. I knew I had to backout but I just kept obliging. I guess it was just desperation taking over at this point. Within 5 minutes, I was out 60,000 Rupees. He kept saying that this will be the last payment, but there just seemed to be no end. At this point, he still asked me to pay more, and I decided that I had enough. I declined and told him that I wanted to cancel the service and my money refunded. He accepted and said that it will be done within 24 hours.

He repeatedly asked me not to worry while asking me for money earlier, and told me that he was a genuine guy, and if he wanted to block me or scam me, he could have just stopped answering my calls/texts. He said that he'll refund within the next day and let me know. I was still furious at myself for losing a lot of money and left back home. Just wanted to mention, I hadn't even gotten a chance to enter inside the hotel, forget about getting an actual real look at the woman that I came to meet. All this conversation took place outside the hotel gate. All this happened at round 2:00 pm in the afternoon. I later got a text from him at 9:00 pm in the night, and this in the point from where things went really downhill

He said that one of the payments that I had made was not shown at the receiver's end, though it had clearly been debited from my account. He said that he'll be able to start the refund only after this is complete. Again, I obliged (like an asshole), and sent him 10,000 Rupees more. He said that even this had not appeared, and wanted me to try again. I was having a meltdown at this point and told him there was no way I was paying him a single penny more. He repeatedly tried to reassure me that this would be the last attempt, Again, I bit the bullet and repeated the transaction. To my horror, He said that even this had not appeared. At this point, he told me that he'll add his supervisor to the call, and the supervisor told me that I had to pay 20,000 Rupees extra to initiate the refund. I declined, and I told him that I could not even if I wanted to since my max account transaction limit has been reached.

At this point, I am out 80,000 Rupees in total. I told the guy (not the supervisor), they they were scam artists and had robbed me of a LOT of money, I'll have to escalate this issue, and he'll rot in hell for what he did, etc... and hung up. I repeatedly avoided his calls when he tried to call me back. A few moments later, he texted me saying that he'll register a rape case against me and ruin my future forever. I was in absolute panic mode. In all my life till now, I had never even kissed a girl, let alone attempt to rape. I managed to calm him down, and apologize (even though i really shouldn't have). He calmed down and said that he got really angry since he said he was gonna rot in hell and he had scammed me. He kept saying that he was legit, and that he had been operating for 6 years now. He asked me to pay the extra money tomorrow and reassured me that he wasn't going to do anything, but threatened me saying he could mess up my life if he wanted to and that I should cooperate with him. It was 2:00 AM at this point

I couldn't sleep the rest of the night. I know I messed up really bad. I should have stopped paying him when he asked me for the first transaction at the hotel. Now I really don't know what to do.

At this point, I don't even care that much about the money. I'll taking losing money over permanently scarring my life any day. I don't want to get in any legal trouble. My parents have no idea about this, and I really don't want to drag them into this (I live with my parents at the moment). I am really afraid that I' might have to go to court and testify or something. I'm really scared about what's going to happen now and my parents would be absolutely destroyed if this goes to court or something serious happens. Not to mention, I'll lose my job and all my friends

I have the following things running around in my head about what to do now.

1. Should I approach my local police station and tell them about everything that happened. Afraid of doing this as I might have committed a crime for first approaching the agency as I suppose this type of call girl/escort service is illegal. I don't want to go to the cops and end up getting arrested because of my own initiation of this
2. Should I block the phone number? Afraid that if I actually do this, he might go through with his threat of registering a rape case against me or doing something similar. I really have no idea about how this works. I suppose if he does this, the police are going to come to my house, and everything is going to be messed up
3. Just pay the extra 20000. I really don't want to do this

I wanted to record all my calls with the guy just as proof in case something goes wrong, but I had an iPhone that didn't allow me to record without paying, and I was having trouble making purchases with my apple account.

I guess my best bet is going with option 1 and it looks like there's no way to avoid embarrassment or shame and that my parents might ultimately know about this from the police. I don't even know if the police will believe me. I wish they can just listen to the calls by contacting the mobile service provider but I don't know if that's even allowed

FYI, he has my phone number and location (GPS location of my phone, not the exact house/building)

Reddit, I really need your help on this one. Please advice on what to do next. I know I messed up bad. I'll never ever contact an another escort service ever again. I'm literally dying of stress right now

Edit-1

1. A lot of people have asked me why i include in USD, and India if. I'm anyway posting in this subreddit. I originally wanted to post it in another subreddit.

2. I graduated in CS, and yeah I guess that makes me look more stupid, but I can't really do anything right now except take it as a lesson and move on. I know a lot of people that make more than I do

3. I currently blocked the number, disabled all my bank account avenues just for safety. I still have the same phone no. he hasn't tried to contact me since yesterday. I think I'll just leave it here, and move on. I don't really want to get the police involved as I don't want anyone to find out about this. I'll change my no. if he harasses me again

4. I am not going to try and defend my actions, I realized I messed up.And I guess I do deserve the hate/trolling. I have reached out to some of you via DM. Really appreciate your help. Thanks a lot! I'll make sure I won't fall for this again