1. This is the first petition under Section 483 of the Bharatiya

 Nyaya Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in

 FIR No. 0266 dated 06.11.2025 registered under Sections 318(4), 319,

 336(3), 338, 340(2), 241 and 3(5) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023

 (corresponding to Sections 420 , 416 , 468 , 467 , 471 , 204 and 34 IPC) and

 Section 42(3)(e) of the Telecommunication Act at Police Station Cyber

 Crime, Nuh. 2. The brief facts of the case are that on 06.11.2025, ASI Narender

 along with other police officials was performing online crime and detection

 duty at Khanpur Ghati Bus Stand, Pinangwan, when a secret informer

 informed the police that the petitioner, namely Zaheer Abbas son of Sehjor

 Khan, resident of village Banarshi, Police Station Pinangwan, District Nuh,

 was involved in cyber fraud and had committed fraud outside a shop at

 Banarshi-Dhadoli Road. Acting upon the said information, a raiding party

 was constituted and the petitioner was apprehended at the disclosed place.
ANU
2026.03.13 17:39
I am the author of this document
Chandigarh CRM-M-12463-2026 2 Upon search, one mobile phone make Realme Narzo along with SIM cards

 was recovered from his possession. During preliminary checking of the

 mobile phone, certain WhatsApp accounts were found logged in through

 different mobile numbers and several illegal chats, illicit videos and

 photographs relating to fake gold bricks and biscuits were allegedly

 detected, which were being operated through Facebook accounts in different

 names. It is further the case of the prosecution that another mobile phone

 make Vivo V2022 along with SIM cards was also recovered from the

 possession of the petitioner. On checking the said mobile numbers on the

 online portal, complaints were found to have been registered by

 complainants namely Deepak Raheja and Salamuddin in relation to cyber

 fraud. The recovered mobile phones, SIM cards and other articles were taken

 into police possession vide separate memos and on the basis of the said

 allegations, the present FIR came to be registered against the petitioner. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has argued that the petitioner

 has been falsely implicated in the present case and that he is not involved in

 any cybercrime nor any amount has been recovered from him. It is submitted

 that only a mobile phone and certain SIM cards have been recovered in the

 present case. Learned counsel further submits that the petitioner is in

 custody for the last about four months and the investigation in the present

 case stands completed. It is further argued that the trial is likely to take

 considerable time to conclude and, therefore, no useful purpose would be

 served by keeping the petitioner behind bars for an indefinite period. 4. Notice of motion. ANU
2026.03.13 17:39
I am the author of this document
Chandigarh CRM-M-12463-2026 3 5. Mr. Vaibhav Sharma, AAG, Haryana accepts notice and has

 contested the present bail application. He has placed on record the custody

 certificate, according to which the petitioner is in custody for the last four

 months and six days. 6. Learned State counsel has opposed the bail application on the

 ground that the recovery of mobile phones and SIM cards establishes the

 involvement of the petitioner in the commission of the alleged offence.

 However, he has not controverted the fact that the petitioner is a first-time

 offender and is not stated to be a habitual offender. 7. This Court is mindful of the settled proposition of law laid

 down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in " Dataram Singh vs. State of Uttar

 Pradesh and another ", 2018 (2) R.C.R. (Criminal) 131, wherein it has been

 held that the grant of bail is the rule and refusal is an exception and that a

 person is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty. It has further been

 observed that personal liberty of an individual is a precious fundamental

 right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and the same

 cannot be curtailed for an indefinite period unless there are compelling

 reasons. 8. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and after perusing

 the record of the case, this Court finds that the petitioner is in custody for the

 last four months and six days. The investigation in the present case stands

 completed and the trial is likely to take some time to conclude. The recovery

 effected in the present case is stated to be of mobile phones and SIM cards

 and the petitioner is stated to be a first-time offender, not involved in any

 other criminal case. ANU
2026.03.13 17:39
I am the author of this document
Chandigarh CRM-M-12463-2026 4 9. Keeping in view the custody period of the petitioner, the fact

 that investigation stands completed and without commenting anything on the

 merits of the case, this Court is of the considered opinion that no useful

 purpose would be served by keeping the petitioner behind the bars for an

 indefinite period. 10. Accordingly, the present petition is allowed and the petitioner is

 ordered to be released on regular bail on his furnishing bail bonds and surety

 bonds to the satisfaction of the learned trial Court/Duty Magistrate

 concerned. 11. It is, however, clarified that nothing observed herein shall be

 construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the case. 12. All pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of.