[1] The present 2 (two) bail applications had been filed under section 438 of the Cr.PC praying for issuing a direction to release the petitioners in the

 event of their arrest in connection with FIR No. 33 (4) 2021 PS: Thoubal; U/S AB NO. 33 OF 2021 WITH AB NO. 34 OF 2021 1 420/409/120-B I.P.C . As the present 2 (two) anticipatory bail applications had

been filed in connection with the same FIR and as the facts and

circumstances and the allegations made against the petitioners are the same,

the present 2 (two) bail applications have been heard jointly and the same is

being disposed of by this common order. [2] Heard Mr. N. Mahendra, learned counsel appearing for the petitioners

and Mr. Y. Ashang, learned PP appearing for the respondents. The Deputy Commissioner, Thoubal submitted a report dated

07.04.2021 to the Secretary to the Hon'ble Chief Minister, Manipur in

connection with unauthorized diversion of land classification in respect of 16-

Lilong stating, inter-alia, that a list of 14 persons along the National Highway-

102 have been found to have diverted the land classification without approval

of the competent authority and that out of the above mentioned 14 (fourteen)

cases, 5 (five) have been verified through Director DSLR who reported that as

per resurvey record of 1989, the classification of land was recorded as

Ingkhol class and on the basis of the said report the Sub Divisional Officer,

Lilong issued an order for rectification of the land class and that field inquiries

were conducted through Md. Shah Daud Khan, SK in charge and Md.

Allaodin, Circle Mandol of the Office of SDO, Lilong, etc. Thereafter, the said

record was treated as OE and FIR No. 33 (4) 2021 TBL-PS U/s 409/420/120B IPC was registered by the OC, Thoubal PS on 07.04.2021.

[3] It is submitted by Mr. N. Mahendra, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioners that both the petitioners are Government servants working in the

Revenue Department, Government of Manipur and posted as Mandol and AB NO. 33 OF 2021 WITH AB NO. 34 OF 2021 2 Amin (LDC) respectively at the SDC's Office, Lilong and that both the

petitioners are family persons residing at their residence along with their

family members consisting of all aged mother, wife and children and that they

are the only bread earners of their family. It has also been submitted that the

petitioners are firmly rooted in society and there is no likelihood of the

petitioners fleeing from justice or absconding on their being released on

anticipatory bail. It has also been submitted by the learned counsel appearing

for the petitioner that the allegations made against the petitioners are false

and concocted and they have nothing to do with the alleged commission of

offences. It has also been submitted that the petitioners are innocent and they

have been falsely implicated in the case and that there is not an iota of

evidence for justifying the false implications of the petitioners in connection

with the commission of the alleged offences. [4] It has also been submitted by Mr. N. Mahendra, learned counsel that

no register or records of rights were tempered with or manipulated by the

petitioners while discharging their official duties and that even if all the

allegations against the petitioners are presume to be true, the offences

alleged, i.e., section 409 and section 420 of the IPC are not attracted at all for

the reasons that there is no allegation of commission of criminal breach of

trust in respect of any property by the petitioners in their capacity of being a

public servant and that there is no acquisition of any land by the authorities of

the State for construction or widening of National Highway No. 102, rather

there was/is procurement of land by the authorities of the State for

construction or widening of National Highway No. 102 in terms of mutually AB NO. 33 OF 2021 WITH AB NO. 34 OF 2021 3 agreed upon land value (price) between the parties (i.e., affected land owners

and State authorities), a contractual deal and therefore, section 420 IPC is

also not attracted in the instant case and accordingly, there is no question of

attracting section 120-B IPC since section 409 and section 420 IPC are not

attracted in the instant case. The learned counsel accordingly submitted that

the petitioners are entitled to be enlarged on bail in the event of their arrest by

the police in connection with the FIR case. [5] In support of his above contentions, Mr. N. Mahendra, learned counsel

cited the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of " S.K.

Alagh Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh " reported in (2008) 5 SCC 662 wherein, it

has been held as under:- 16. The Penal code, save and except some provisions specifically
 providing therefore, does not contemplate any vicarious liability on the
 part of a party who is not charged directly for commission of an
 offence. 17. A criminal breach of trust is an offence committed by a person to
 whom the property is entrusted. 18. Ingredients of the offence under Section 406 are: [6] The learned counsel also cited the judgment rendered by the Hon'ble

Apex Court in the case of " Sushila Aggarwal Vs. State (NCT of Delhi )" [7] In the objection filed by the respondent, it has been stated, inter-alia

that- (iii) the petitioners are the custodians of the land records and by

 misusing their official positions they carried out the manipulations in

 the land records illegally and their involvements in the scam is well

 established and that such illegal acts of the petitioners cause loss to

 the Government inasmuch as the conversion of agricultural land to

 homestead land had been carried out for the purpose of enhancing

 the value of the land at the time of taking over the land by the

 Government for public purposes; (iv) the petitioners have signed incorrect field survey reports in

 connection with classification of land and they have also been

 involved in the manipulation of mother records at the Directorate of

 Settlement and that the extent of conspiracy with other revenue

 officials needs to be investigated; AB NO. 33 OF 2021 WITH AB NO. 34 OF 2021 6 (v) as the petitioners are the custodians of the official records, they are

 capable of altering evidences and putting pressure on witnesses if

 not taken into custody. [8] After hearing the submission advanced by the learned counsel for the

parties and after careful perusal of the records of the present cases, it is

clearly evident that from the beginning, i.e., from the time of registration of the

FIR, the petitioners have been trying to evade arrest in connection with the

said FIR and they have not voluntarily cooperate with the police in the

investigation of the case. It is also very clearly evident that as the petitioners

are the custodians of the official records and as they have the accessibility to

the official records they will have the means and the resources or are capable

of altering the evidences and putting pressure on witnesses, unless they are

placed under custody during the period of investigation. In so far as the principles laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the

judgments cited by the counsel for the petitioners is concerned, this Court is

incomplete agreement with the law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court,

however, the judgment in the case of "S.K. Alagh" is of no help to the

petitioners as the same is not applicable in the facts and circumstances of the

present case. In the result, this Court is not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the

petitioners and accordingly, the present applications are hereby dismissed. JUDGE

 FR/NRF
 Sapana AB NO. 33 OF 2021 WITH AB NO. 34 OF 2021 7