The appeal by the Department is directed against the order dated 15-07-2011 of the

ld. CIT(A), Jodhpur. Following grounds have been raised in this appeal. ''On the facts and in the circumstances of the case Ld. C.I.T. (A),
 Jodhpur has erred in - (1) deleting the addition of Rs. 14,59,240 made by the AO on the
 finding that the share transactions were not genuine and had also ignored the
 below mentioned facts :- Ltd. during the period 1.1.2004 to 23.2.2005. (b) that the assessee is stated to have purchased the shares of Shree
 Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. on 26.6.2004. (c ) that the investigation stated to have been made by the Addl.
 Director of Income-tax (Investigation), Jaipur revealed that the share
 broker Shri Ashok Kumar Kayan through whom the assessee is said to have
 purchased the shares was running a racket of providing accommodation
 entries respecting Long Term Capital Gain on shares. (d) that the assessee failed to produce the Contract Note in Form A, the
 vital evidence in the case of the assessee, showing the particulars of purchase
 of shares either before the AO during the course of assessment proceedings or
 before the CIT(A) during the course of appellate proceeding. (e) that the assessee failed to explain the source for the purported
 purchase of shares. (f) that though the assessee is stated to have purchased the shares on
 26.6.2004, the same, as may be seen from assessee's letter dated 30.4.2010
 addressed to the AO and copy of demat account enclosed therewith,
 which were formed part of AO's remand report, were first reflected only in
 the demat account as on 17.6.2005. That the appellant craves leave to add, amend or alter any or all the
 grounds of appeal on or before the date the appeal is finally heard for
 disposal.''

2.1 From the above grounds, it is gathered that the only grievance of the Department

relates to deletion of addition of Rs. 14,59,240/- made by the Assessing Officer by

considering the share transactions as non-genuine. 2.2 The facts of the case in brief are that the assessee E-filed the return of income on

07-02-2008 declaring total income of Rs. 13,44,970/-. Later on, the case was selected for

scrutiny. During the course of assessment proceedings, the Assessing Officer noticed that

the assessee had shown Long Term Capital Gain of Rs. 14,59,240/- which was claimed as

exempt u/s 10(38) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as ' the Act' in

short). The Assessing Officer asked the assessee to furnish complete details of Long Term

Capital Gain i.e. details of purchases of shares, contract note, share-sales details, contract-

cum-bills and Demat statement etc. On verification of the detail filed by the assessee, the

Assessing Officer noticed that during the year under consideration the assessee had shown

sales of shares numbering 9500 of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. which were

purchased on 26-06-2004 through broker @ Rs. 5.20 per share plus 0.02% brokerage for an

overall consideration of Rs. 49,540/- but the copy of contract note in Form-A showing

particulars of purchases so made was not furnished. The Assessing Officer also observed 3 that the assessee had claimed to have sold the above said shares through broker M/s Sikaria

Shares & Stock Broking Services (P) Ltd. between the period 24-08-2006 to 21-09-2006

for an aggregate consideration of Rs. 15,11,870/- less brokerage of Rs. 5,534/- and the sale

price per share varied from Rs. 159/- to Rs. 159.40 per share. The Assessing Officer

pointed out that an investigation was conducted by SEBI in the trading in scrip of M/s

Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. for the period 01-01-2004 to 23-02-2005 and it was found

that shares of the said company went down from Rs. 51.15 on January 1, 2004 to Rs. 4.10

on July 28,2004 and then again went up to Rs. 56.50 on February 23, 2005 at the Calcutta

Stock Exchange and it was alleged that M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. had indulged in

manipulative trading and violated Regulations 3, 4(1), 4(2), (a), (b), (e) and (g) of

Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to securities. The Assessing

Officer pointed out that shares were purchased by the assessee on 26-06-2004 which fell

within the investigation period (01-01-2004 to 23-02-2005) mentioned by SEBI. The

Assessing Officer was of the view that transactions were not genuine and were fraudulently

done with a view to showing Long Term Capital Gain which was exempt u/s 10(38) of the

Act. He, therefore, asked the assessee to show cause as to why an amount of Rs.

14,59,240/- shown as Long Term Capital Gain on the sale of shares of M/s Shree Nidhi

Trading Co. Ltd. may not be treated as assesee's income from the undisclosed sources. In

response, the assessee vide letter dated 16-12-2009 stated as under:- on account of sale of shares numbering 9500 of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading
 Co. Ltd. The said shares were purchased on 26-06-2004. Your goodself has
 already been known that the contract note of purchase of shares has been
 attached with the determination slip while opening and putting these shares
 in Demat account. The copy of Demat account has already been filed
 wherein these shares appears. (ii) The fact shown in para 3 of your letter seems to be correct. 4 (iii) Kindly make available the relevant documents where from your
 goodself found the allegation that M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Company Limited
 had indulged in manipulative trading and violated Regulations
 3,4(l),4(2),(a),(b),(c) and (g) of the prohibition of fraudulent and unfair Trade
 practices relating to securities markets and kindly also indicate and let us
 know the name of broker who was involved in the scam. (iv) The facts given by you does not established that the transactions
 made of the shares of the said M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. on which
 the assessee has shown Long Term Capital Gain at Rs.14,59,240/- are
 not genuine. The transactions are genuine because:- (A) Because
 purchases were made from market on the value as it was on the date on
 stock market. (B) Shares were put in Demat account (C) Sales were made
 after expiry of one year from the date of Demat of Shares (D) Sale of Shares
 was subject to STT and were sold through Stock Exchange (E) A person
 purchasing shares from market through broker how can foresee that said
 Company or Broker is involved in scam and how a layman can come to
 know about this fact which you have alleged. (F) As alleged then why SEBI
 allowed M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. to transit on stock exchange. If it
 was not allowed to be transited then we would not have purchased the
 shares. (v) Kindly treat the transactions made & LTCG earned as genuine
 u/s 10(38) of the Act because as narrated above, the transactions made
 are genuine and within the purview of law.''

2.3 The Assessing Officer did not accept the contentions of the assessee for the reasons

stated in para 5.6 of the assessment order dated 23-12-2009 which read as under:- Ltd. are not genuine and that since the purchase were made from market at
 the price prevailing at that time and that the shares were put into Demat
 Account, is not sufficient ground to accept the said transactions as genuine in
 view of the facts of the case of the Company in respect of which the aforesaid
 transactions in purchase and sales were made. (ii) With regards assessee's contention that sales were made after expiry of one
 year from the date of Demat of Shares and that sales of shares were subject
 to STT and were sold through Stock Exchange, it is seen that the reply is general
 in nature and any transactions in Listed Security through any recognized Stock
 Exchange are subject to STT and are required to be sold through recognized
 Stock Exchange. This fact does not give any sanctity to a particular transaction. 5 (iii) With regards the contention that any person buying shares from
market through broker cannot foresee whether the said broker is involved in
any scam and manipulative activities, it is seen that the case of the assessee in
showing the Long Term Capital Gain which in turn is exempt u/s 10(38) of I.T.
Act is not a solitary case. Apart from the assessee, some of his relatives and
associates namely (i) M/s Pipalia Engg. Co. Pvt. Ltd. and (2) Sh. Abhay Raj Shah
have also shown the Long Term Capital Gain of Rs.33,75,242/- and of
Rs.26,94,325/-respectively during the same period. Besides, it is seen that in
the past also, certain associates of the assessee have shown Long Term
Capital Gain of substantial amount on the sales of shares of M/s Shree Nidhi
Trading Co. Ltd. It is also worthwhile to mention here that in the case of one of
associate concerns of the assessee company M/s Miracle Carriers & Trading Co.,
during the F.Y. 2003-2004 relevant to the A.Y. 2004-05, the said firm had
shown substantial amount of Long Term Capital Gain on the sales of shares of
M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. and while finalizing the assessment u/s
143(3) , the A.O. after enquiring into the facts of the case had made additions
of Rs.27,68,537/- disallowing the claim of Long Term Capital'Gain claimed
as exempt u/s 10(38) of the I.T. Act and the matter is now pending before the
appellate authorities. (iv) It is also worthwhile to mention here that in the case of
M/s Pipalia Engineering Works Pvt. Ltd. in which the assessee is a
Director, the said Company has shown a sum of Rs. 33,75,242/- as Long
Term Capital on the sales of shares of the very same Co. i.e. M/s Shree Nidhi
Trading Co. Ltd. It is also seen that the period of purchase and sales are
almost identical. However, the said M/s Pipalia Engg. Works Pvt. Ltd. has
not claimed the said Long Term Capital Gain of Rs. 33,75,242/- as exempt u/s
10(38) of the I.T. Act. (v) In this context, it is pertinent to mention here that a search u/s 132 was
conducted on 12.04.2005 in the case of M/s B.C. Purohit & Co. and its
associates. Subsequently, the Addl. Director of Income-tax (Inv.) Jaipur
forwarded the contents of the search which reveals that M/s B.C. Purohit &
Co. & its associates were running a racket of providing accommodation
entries respecting Long Term Capital Gain on Shares. It is mentioned by the
ADIT (Inv.) that some Share-brokers are providing the bogus entries by
taking cash from the beneficiaries & depositing the same in the bogus
Account as per direction of the following Brokers of Kolkata :- Following the enquiries made in this regard many assessees of the Jodhpur
 Region have voluntarily surrendered the income which they had shown under
 the head Long Term Capital Gain. (vi) The above facts and circumstances of the case shows that the
 assessee and its associates have history of showing Long Term Capital Gain
 on the sale of the said M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. which in turn they
 have been claiming as exempt u/s 10(38) . The overall facts of the case lead
 to the finding that the transactions in the shares of M/s Shree Nidhi
 Trading Co. Ltd. on which the assessee has shown Long Term Capital Gain
 of Rs.14,59,240/- are not genuine transactions but are managed
 transactions done with a view to showing and claiming Long Term Capital
 Gain as exempt u/s 10(38) of the I.T. Act and that the assessee has brought
 into books of account its unaccounted money in the guise of Long Term
 Capital Gain which in turn is exempt u/s 10(38) of the I.T. Act.''

2.4 In view of the above, the Assessing Officer did not accept the claim of the assessee

for the amount of Rs. 14,59,240/- as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act.

2.5 Being aggrieved, the assessee carried the matter to the ld. CIT(A) and submitted

that the assessee maintained the demat account with DP-ID N300513, A 206, Phoneix

House, Phoneix Mills compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Patel, Mumbai which

showed the balance of 9500 shares of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd.. Those shares

were acquired before 17-6-2005 (date of purchase 26-06-2004) through stock exchange and

put into DEMAT account . It was further submitted that as per norms of SEBI, the purchase

and sales of shares of listed companies has to be made through proper legal system of SEBI

and stock exchange. It was stated that the Assessing Officer had not brought out any

adverse evidence on record to show that purchases were bogus or transactions were not as

per the norms of SEBI or stock exchange and that those shares were part of the balance 7 sheet of the assessee (at the financial year ending on 31-03-05 and 31-03-2006) and the

Department had accepted this fact in the preceding years. It was submitted that shares in the

DEMAT account were concluding evidence about the existence of shares in the hands of

the assessee and that the Assessing Officer had not disputed the purchase of shares and the

DEMAT account. It was further stated that the assessee had sold shares between period 25-

08-06 to 21-09-06 and various expense like brokerage Rs. 3030/- , Service Tax Rs. 369/-,

Stamp Rs. 72/- and Securities Transfer Tax Rs. 1891/- were incurred and that holding of the

shares was for more than one year. Therefore, the investigation of the third party could not

be applicable to the assessee until and unless there was any direct finding against the

assessee. It was stated that the Assessing Officer had not pointed out any substantive

material to establish the non-genuineness of transaction or managed transaction and had not

brought out any material to prove that those DEMAT account with M/s SKK Investor

Services Pvt. Ltd. was fraud or non-genuine. It was also stated that in identical facts, the ld.

CIT(A) allowed the appeal in the case of M/s. Miracle Carriers and Trading Co.

2.6 The ld. CIT(A) after considering the submissions of the assessee observed that the

Assessing Officer treated the transactions in the shares of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd.

as non-genuine but subsequently, the Assessing Officer in his remand report dated 05-05-

2010 stated that in the copy of the DEMAT account as on 17-06-2005 holding of 9500

shares of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. was reflected and 9500 shares were shown as

sold. The ld. CIT(A) also pointed out that the Assessing Officer stated that the assessee

was not having contract note of purchase of shares. However, the assessee had furnished

the copy of contract note regarding sale of shares. The ld. CIT(A) categorically stated that

the Assessing Officer with letter dated 21-05-2010 furnished the letter received from Stock

Exchange where the names and addresses of the directors of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co.

Ltd. were submitted which revealed that for purchase of shares, the assessee had submitted 8 the DEMAT account. The ld. CIT(A) also pointed out that Assessing Officer had not given

any adverse findings about the DEMAT account. The ld. CIT(A) observed that the assessee

had furnished sale contract note and sales were reflected in the DEMAT account and that

the Assessing Officer called for the names and addresses of the directors of M/s Shree

Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. which proved that the company was genuine. The ld. CIT(A) also

pointed out that the Assessing Officer in the assessment order mentioned that in the case of

M/s Miracle Carriers and Trading Co., the shares of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. were

sold and deduction u/s 10(38) of the Act had been disallowed but the assessee furnished

the copy of the order of the ld. CIT(A) wherein the issue was allowed in favour of the

assessee. The ld. CIT(A) therefore, held that transactions were genuine and not managed.

Accordingly , the addition made by the Assessing Officer was deleted.

2.7 Now the Department is in appeal. 2.8 The Ld. D.R. for the Revenue strongly supported the order of the Assessing Officer

and further submitted that transaction in question was not genuine. Therefore, the addition

was rightly made by the Assessing Officer and the ld. CIT(A) was not justified in deleting

the same. 2.9 In his rival submissions, the ld. counsel for the assessee reiterated the submissions

made before the authorities below and further submitted that the assessee during the course

of assessment proceedings furnished the DEMAT account wherein 9500 shares of M/s

Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. were reflected, which were acquired before 17-06-2005

through stock exchange and those were part of the balance sheet of the assessee for the

financial year ended on 31-03-2005 and 31-03-2006, the said fact was accepted by the

Department. It was further stated that the purchase of shares in DEMAT account was the

concluding evidence about the existence of shares in the hands of the assessee and that the

contract note of purchase and sales of the shares were always attached with determination 9 slip which is the basic document to put shares or take out shares from DEMAT account. It

was contended that the Assessing Officer had not disputed the purchase of shares in the

DEMAT account. It was stated that the assessee submitted the Bank receipt note, Statement

of Security, Transaction Note, Form A of Broker to the Assessing Officer for verification

and there was no legal infirmity in the transaction. It was further submitted that the holding

period of shares was more than one year and Securities Transaction Tax was paid.

Therefore, the Long Term Capital Gain amounting to Rs. 14,59,240/- declared by the

assessee on sale of shares was rightly claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act and the

Assessing Officer had not brought out any adverse or contravention of the provision of the Income Tax Act regarding the claim of exemption of the Long Term Capital Gain . It was

stated that the transaction was genuine for the following reasons. (a) Because purchases were made from market on the value as it was on
 the date of stock market. (b) Shares were put in DEMAT account. ( c) Sales were made after expiry of one year from the date of purchase
 or even from the date of DEMAT of shares. (d) Sale of shares were subject to STT and were sold through Stock
 Exchange. (e) A person purchasing shares from the market through broker how can
 foresee that said company or broker is involved in scam and how a layman
 can come to know about this fact which A.O. has alleged. (f) As alleged then why SEBI allowed M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd.
 to transit on Stock Exchange. If it was not allowed to be transited then we
 would not have purchased the shares. It was accordingly submitted that the ld. CIT(A) was justified in deleting the addition

made by the Assessing Officer

2.10 We have considered the submissions of both the parties and carefully gone through

the material available on record . In the present case, it appears that the assessee purchased 10 the shares of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd. from market at the price prevailing at that

time and those shares were put into DEMAT account. The assessee purchased the shares on

26-06-2004 and acquired those shares before 17-06-2005 through Stock Exchange. Those

shares were reflected in the balance sheet of the assessee for the year ended on 31-03-2005

and 31-03-2006. The holding of the shares was more than one year as shares were sold

between the period 25-08-2006 to 21-09-2006 at Rs. 15,11,870/-. The assessee also

incurred the expenses in the form of Brokerage, Securities Transfer Tax, Service Tax,

Stamps etc., those expenses were not doubted by the Assessing Officer. The assessee also

furnished the Bank receipt note, Statement of Security Transaction Note, Contract Note

etc. Therefore, the transaction was genuine and the Long Term Capital Gain on the sales of

shares of M/s Shree Nidhi Trading Co. Ltd., amounting to Rs. 14,59,240/- was rightly

claimed as exempt u/s 10(38) of the Act because the assessee fulfilled both the conditions

for claiming exemption u/s 10(38) of the Act. The first condition was that transaction of

those shares was to be entered into on or after the date on which Chapter VII of the Finance

(No.2) Act, 2004 came into force i.e. 01-10-2004 and the transaction was chargeable to

Securities Transaction Tax under this Chapter. In the present case, shares were acquired by

the assessee on 17-06-2005 through Stock Exchange and put into DEMAT account. When

those shares were sold, the assessee incurred the expenses of Rs. 1891/- on account of

Securities Transaction Tax and those share were held for more than one year. Therefore, the

profit earned on the sale of the shares was Long Term Capital Gain which was exempt u/s

10(38) of the Act. We therefore, considering the totality of the facts of the case as discussed

hereinabove are of the view that the ld. CIT(A) rightly deleted the addition made by the

Assessing Officer. In that view of the matter, we do not see any merit in this appeal of the

Department. 3.0 In the result, the appeal filed by the Revenue is dismissed. (Order Pronounced in the Open Court on this 28-06-2013.)

 Sd/- Sd/-