X (formerly Twitter) will appeal the Karnataka High Court’s decision upholding the Sahyog Portal last week, the company’s government affairs team said in a statement on its platform. The company says that it is deeply concerned by the court’s decision, stating that this will allow “millions of police officers to issue arbitrary takedown orders” solely based on ‘illegality’. This process operates without a judicial review or due process for the people whose speech the portal curtails.

X is deeply concerned by the recent order from the Karnataka court in India, which will allow millions of police officers to issue arbitrary takedown orders through a secretive online portal called the Sahyog. This new regime has no basis in the law, circumvents Section 69A of…

“X respects and complies with Indian law, but this order fails to address the core constitutional issues in our challenge and is inconsistent with the Bombay High Court’s recent ruling that a similar regime was unconstitutional. We respectfully disagree with the view that we have no right to raise these concerns because of our incorporation abroad—X contributes significantly to public discourse in India and the voice of our users is at the heart of our platform,” the company notes, stating that it will appeal to uphold free speech.

The case, which was first filed in March, challenged the constitutionality of the portal as well as the government’s use of Section 79(3)(b) and Rule 3(1)(d) of the IT Act, 2000, and the IT Rules, 2021, respectively, for issuing content takedown notices. Last week, the court rejected X’s petition and also an intervening application that journalist Abhinandan Sekhri and digital media body DigiPub had filed in this case. Through the Sahyog Portal, the government has sought to automate the process of sending takedown notices. X argued that this process was bypassing the content takedown/blocking process specified under Section 69A of the IT Act.

You can read a breakdown of X’s key arguments here and the government’s arguments here . For the specifics of the intervening application, read this .

Sahyog portal is not an instrument for censorship but rather a facilitation mechanism to streamline communication between authorised agencies and intermediaries, the Karnataka High Court observed in its order in the case. The court’s observation stems from the context the Indian Government had provided for setting up the portal, arguing that both law enforcement agencies and intermediaries had cited challenges in ensuring compliance with content takedowns.

“The recital of the difficulties faced by both law enforcement agencies and intermediaries from lack of reliable contact information to duplication of notices, delays, and absence of accountability— demonstrates the pressing need for a centralised and standardised platform. Therefore, the justification is completely acceptable. The nomenclature ‘Sahyog’ means co-operation is itself indicative of collaborative intent underlying its establishment,” the court suggests.

The order emphasises that, as the Solicitor General states, the government’s powers to issue binding blocking orders are restricted to Section 69A of the IT Act and the 2009 blocking rules. Given this, calling Sahyog a censorship portal would be a ‘mischaracterisation’ that the court cannot sustain.

The court notes that various Ministries have issued notices designating nodal officers who can issue takedown notices under Section 79(3)(b) and rule 3(1)(d), including the Ministry of Railways, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Defence. It goes back to the Supreme Court’s decision in the Shreya Singhal case , noting that the apex court had upheld Rule 4 of the 2009 blocking rules, which pertains to nodal officer appointment. “Therefore, Nodal Officers are not dropping from the air, but emanate from statutes,” the court notes.

Then, the court looked at a takedown notice that the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) nodal officer had sent X in July last year. The notice informed X of certain handles that were propagating content that violated provisions of the Bhartiya Nyaya Samhita (BNS, 2023). Karnataka HC suggests that, given the specific sections of BNS quoted in the notice, it is evident that X’s argument that whatever the nodal officer considers a violation becomes a violation is contrary to the facts.

“The nodal officer has never indicated that, according to him, it [the content] is wrong, but according to the law, it is wrong. Therefore, the intermediary has no choice but to obey the takedown orders issued from time to time by the nodal officers. If the document of objections are seen, it shrouds with so much obscenity that is found in the platform. If illegality and unlawful information is floating on the platform and the Government of the day directs taking it down, it cannot be said to be illegal orders. They are orders in consonance with the law,” the court argues.

The Karnataka High Court noted a myriad of issues with social media, quoting scholarly research around misinformation/disinformation, threats and intimidation online, impact of social media on the human psyche. Besides these, the court specifically acknowledged that the technology facilitated violence against women, such as via deepfake pornography, cyber harassment, impersonation, etc.

“Such crimes, it must be underscored, do not ordinarily unfold through sending an email, rather, they insidiously take share across sprawling platform of digital age— X, Instagram, Facebook and at times even on WhatsApp. Primary among these, however, are social media forums whose immense research and immediacy makes them fertile ground for both expression and exploitation,” the court observes.

The high court emphasises that cybercrime doesn’t just emanate from social media. However, when such acts take place through social media, they must be reined in through effective and timely regulation. Its order mentions the details of X’s transparency report for August 2025, noting that the company did not take action against any of the 31 child sexual exploitation grievances it received in the month. This, the court says, validates the Solicitor General’s argument that X is in the habit of violating the law or not adhering to the law that is in force. Besides India, the court argues that X has also shown no respect to content takedown requests in other countries as well, discussing the company’s challenge against the eSafety Commissioner of Australia , its non-compliance with the Brazilian Supreme Court , and the challenge against the European Commission’s takedown order .

The court also draws attention to the fake X account the Government’s lawyers had created, called the “Supreme Court of Karnataka” . Within minutes of finding out about the account during a hearing of the case, X removed it. “If such impersonation of a constitutional court can be permitted to exist, it would underscore the truth that on the petitioner’s platform anything can be done, for no vigilant guards its gates,” it explained.

X’s case challenged two separate provisions under the IT Act and Rules:

The court argues that X cannot rely on the Shreya Singal judgment to argue against the IT Rules 2021 because the rules the Supreme Court had considered in the Shreya Singhal case were entirely different. It rejects the argument that the Supreme Court’s interpretation of Rule 3(4) of IT Rules 2011 is applicable here, stating that this rule is entirely different in juxtaposition to IT Rules 2021.

Discussing the argument that rule 3(1)(d) is vague, the court says that if one reads it with Section 79, it becomes evident that if the government directs a platform to take down and the platform doesn’t act on this direction, it loses its safe harbour. It is at this stage that rule 3(1)(d) springs in to ensure that intermediaries comply with their obligations under Section 79. The word unlawful in both Section 79 and Rule 3(1)(d) is qualified by the words under any law for the time being in force. Based on this explanation, the court argues that it is “understandable” as to how X can construe the rule to be vague.

Even the Supreme Court has noted that the impossibility of framing a definition with mathematical precision cannot become a ground to challenge the validity of an Act, the court mentions. Further, it quotes the Supreme Court’s decision in the Arup Bhuyan vs State of Assam case in reference to X’s demand that the court should read down Rule 3(1)(d). It is mentioned that reading down a provision cannot be resorted to when the meaning of a provision is plain and unambiguous, and the intention of the legislature is not nebulous.

“Rule 3(1)(d) provides information blocking within the scope of Section 79. Section 69A and Section 79 operate at two different and distinct circumstances. Section 79 is to be read with Rule 3(1)(d) and Section 69A separately, for the reason that Section 69A employs elaborate procedure for taking down or blocking,” the court says.

It argues that Section 79(3)(b) and Rule 3(1)(d) of the IT Rules, 2021, only mandate due diligence with conditions. The court says that it is ‘startled’ that X does not undertake due diligence. Establishing the fact that there is nothing vague or arbitrary about the provisions, the court repeals the challenge against them.

The order discusses at length the various speech regulation policies the US has employed, including its Communications Decency Act and the more recent Take it Down Act. Going into specific details of the Take it Down Act, the court notes that it imposes criminal prohibition on a variety of content, including inauthentic intimate visual depictions of adults, publication of authentic visuals depicting minors, and digital forgeries of minors. The act requires platforms to take down such content upon receiving a takedown notice.

By setting the context, the court seeks to emphasise that even in X’s homeland, the government has regulated the spread of information. Despite these regulations in its home country, the court says that X is crying foul about the regulatory regime in India.

Speaking to MediaNama, Principal Consultant at Anekaanta, a law and policy advisory services firm, Pranesh Prakash expressed disappointment about the court’s decision, stating that it runs contrary to the Constitution of India, as well as principles of legal interpretation.

“The court was not asked to rule on whether social media platforms can be regulated, nor on whether freedom of expression is absolute. Those were never argued by X. The court was asked to rule on whether the Sahyog censorship portal was in line with the IT Act and the limitations that the Constitution of India permitted on freedom of expression. It failed to do so,” he explained.

Prakash explained that X’s challenge against the Sahyog Portal was based on the portal being in violation of the IT Act. “The high court’s decision seems to have been guided more by its view that ‘social media must be regulated’ rather than any constitutional analysis of the case before it. Using the Sahyog portal to censor journalism (by Hindustan Times, Lokmat, ABP, Zee Business, and others) is not something that the IT Act permits, and is in violation of the Constitution as well,” he argued. He finds it shocking that the court’s decision does not engage with the fact that tweets by news organizations were ordered to be censored via the Sahyog portal.

Theses are some tweets that @XCorpIndia was ordered to take down via the Sahyog censorship portal. How is this justified? How is the government arguing that this is legal? (from p. 337 of X's petition) cc: @TweetinderKaul @nixxin @apar1984 @prateekwaghre @tame_wildcard https://t.co/mXaYhvk73o pic.twitter.com/ESxBw0201B

Similarly, in a statement about the situation SFLC.In argues that the court’s decision appears to have “understated the profound consequences such a regime has on Indian citizens, journalists, and digital media publishers who rely on protected speech and expression under Articles 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g).” The organisation raises concerns about the validation of content blocking via Section 79(3)(b) through the Sahyog Portal and how it leads to fragmented and opaque governance of online speech. “This parallel enforcement mechanism may lead to varied standards, lack of uniformity, and insufficient legal clarity, thereby increasing the likelihood of overreach and unwarranted silencing of digital expression,” it adds.

While the Solicitor General and the court argue that the government’s powers to issue blocking orders are restricted to Section 69A of the Act, in practice, the ‘intimations’ Sahyog Portal sends out are also binding orders, SFLC.in argues in comments shared with MediaNama. “Intermediaries risk losing their safe-harbour immunity under Section 79(1) if they do not comply,” it adds, explaining the binding nature of these orders.

SFLC.in explains that, given the serious legal and financial consequences of losing immunity, including potential civil and criminal liability for user-generated content, platforms have little real choice but to comply. “Thus, even though framed as mere intimations, Sahyog notices operate as binding orders in effect, creating a parallel regulatory regime unsupported by law,” it points out.

The expansion of platforms covered under the Sahyog Portal introduces a new potential for a chilling effect, specifically on legitimate business activities based on vague and undefined “unlawful” grounds, SFLC.in mentions. “It could also facilitate the takedown of critical or negative, yet truthful, customer reviews and feedback if deemed ‘unlawful’ by government agencies,” it explained, adding that e-commerce platforms are already regulated under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, which provide mechanisms to remove unlawful content. As such, including these platforms under the Sahyog portal for the same purpose could create redundancies and if the platform gets misused, could infringe sellers’ fundamental right to trade under Article 19(1)(g) without safeguards.

SFLC.in emphasised the importance of the Shreya Singhal decision as the “cornerstone for all online content takedowns under Indian law.” Discussing the judgment, SFLC.in said that in 2015, the court had upheld that the government must strictly adhere to the procedures under Section 69A of the IT Act and the Blocking Rules, 2009. “These procedures are explicitly designed in compliance with the principles of natural justice, including the right to notice, the right to be heard, issuance of reasoned orders, and the right of aggrieved persons to receive a copy of the blocking order and seek judicial review,” SFLC.in explains. It argues that the Sahyog Portal runs contrary to this established framework and allows nodal officers to issue blocking orders without the procedure laid out in the 2009 rules.

Meanwhile, Prakash addressed the court’s point about the lack of applicability of the Shreya Signal judgment.

“The Karnataka HC’s oral order suggests that they felt the Supreme Court’s landmark order in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India didn’t apply just because the IT Rules have been amended. What the HC seems to have missed out is that in 2015, the Supreme Court ruled not only on the IT Rules, but also on the IT Act and on Article 19(1)(a) and 19(2) of the Constitution of India,” he pointed out.

Note: The post was updated on September 30, at 4:47 PM to incorporate comments from policy advisor Pranesh Prakash and a statement about the court’s decision from SFLC.in.

Note: The post was updated on October 3, 2025 at 9:30 AM to incorporate comments that address specific questions MediaNama sent to SFLC.in .

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event