SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Flipkart scammed me, need help
DATE: 2023-09-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/16blnpf/flipkart_scammed_me_need_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Ordered Sony earbuds worth 16.5k on 23/08/2023, the courier guy came and called me but I was out of town, nobody was home, so I asked him to give it to my neighbour. 

The delivery was a open box delivery, but the courier guy failed to open it and check it, my neighbour collected the parcel and I asked him to open the parcel and verify the contents, to my and my neighbours surprise I had gotten a fake/wrong product, I got two Nivea face wash along with one pair for wrong/fake earbuds which is totally different from what I ordered but it had all the other contents relating to the Sony earbuds like the booklet and warranty card etc. 

I immediately called the courier guy and asked him to take it back and asked him why did he not check the box as it was an open-box delivery, was he doing something behind my back? He said he forgot and he called his manager and asked him what to do, finally he told please raise a return request and I will come and pick it up. 

Then I got on a call with flipkart and told them about the whole situation. They raised a ticket for it and and I had sent all the supporting documents required including my aadhar. When the resolution came they told me - seller can't provide replacement/refund as the seller contacted the courier service and they have verified the box was intact. I was shocked to hear this, mind you - this is the first time in my entirety of online shopping that I have gotten a fake product. I called them again and registered a second ticket - same response for that as well, meanwhile I registered a complaint on the consumer helpline website - same response there as well. Now I'm feeling very bad that I have lost my money, I have no idea what to do next. 

 
PLEASE HELP ME, WHAT DO I DO NEXT? Has someone experienced this w flipakrt? Please let me know