Rajesh Murmu, aged about 31 years, son of late Doman
Murmu, resident of village Edelbera P.O. and P.S. Ghatshila,
District East Singhbhum.... Anita Mardi, wife of Rajesh Murmu and daughter of Bajun
Mardi, aged about 27 years, resident of village Paruliya, P.O.
Dumuria, P.S. Masabani, District-East Singhbhum
 ... ... Respondent/Respondent ------- CORAM :HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE SUJIT NARAYAN PRASAD
 HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE ARUN KUMAR RAI ------ For the Appellant : Mr. Chandrajit Mukherjee, Advocate
For the Respondent : None -------- Order No. 06 : Dated 17th December, 2025
Per Sujit Narayan Prasad, J: Factual Aspect: So the petitioner-appellant was suddenly surprised on

hearing the fact that the respondent is a widow lady and the -2- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

respondent has falsely represented herself as unmarried,

appeared before the Marriage Registrar Ghatshila and got the

registration of the marriage by making false statement by way

of affidavit before the Marriage Officer at Ghatshila. 5. It is further case of the petitioner-appellant that the

parties have neither cohabited as husband and wife at

matrimonial home and the marriage has not been

consummated. 6. It has been stated that when this fact was disclosed to

the family members of the petitioner-appellant, then the

petitioner-appellant being cheated did not consummate the

marriage. Further case of the petitioner-appellant is that on

12.01.2020 the respondent-wife had left the house of the

petitioner-appellant after taking all her gold and silver

ornaments and other valuable articles and since then she is

residing in her parents‟ House without having any concern

with the petitioner-appellant and his family members. When

the petitioner-appellant contacted the respondent on

24.02.2020 for clarification for such illegal act and for mutual

divorce, the respondent flatly refused for the same rather she

told that she will live in matrimonial house forcefully as such

it has become necessary for the petitioner-appellant to file

this petition for getting the marriage solemnized between the -3- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

petitioner-appellant and respondent dissolved and the

petitioner-appellant is entitled for the same. 7. Further, it is contended that due to such mental torture,

unkind, cruel and harassing conduct of the respondent, the

petitioner-appellant has suffered mental agony and on this

score too, the petitioner-appellant is entitled for a decree of

dissolution of marriage illegally solemnized on 06.01.2020. 8. It has been contended that from the above mentioned

facts and circumstances, it is very clear that the intention of

the respondent was not good from the beginning of the filing

of the marriage application and she has suppressed the

actual facts before the Marriage Officer, Ghatshila and the

certificate obtained by her is a null and void document and

the marriage has not been acted upon and the certificate

issued by the Marriage Officer, Ghatshila is a mere paper

transaction. 9. The cause of action for the suit arose on and from

06.01.2020 and 24.02.2020 and 12.01.2020 and every

subsequent dates at Village Edelbera, Ghatshila, East

Singhbhum. 10. On the aforesaid facts, ground has been taken that the

petitioner-husband has been cheated by the respondent-wife

as such prayer has been made that the marriage certificate

obtained by practicing fraud and cheating the petitioner- -4- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

appellant since is a null and void document as such, the

petitioner-appellant is entitled to a decree for dissolution by

way of divorce. 11. In spite of issuance of notice through registered post

and also through publication in newspaper, the respondent

did not appear, so the suit proceeded ex-parte. 12. The petitioner-appellant, the husband herein examined

himself as P.W. 1 and one other witness namely Sudarshan

Murmu as P.W.2, however, no document in support of the

evidence adduced on behalf of appellant has been filed before

the learned family court. 13. Accordingly, the matter was heard by learned family

court, who on appreciation of evidence adduced by the

appellant and material available before him, dismissed the

suit, against which the present appeal has been filed.

Submission on behalf of appellant: 14. Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that

the factual aspect which was available before the learned

family court supported by the evidences adduced on behalf of

the appellant has not properly been considered and as such,

the judgment impugned is perverse, hence, not sustainable in

the eyes of law. 15. It has been contended that the learned family court has

erred in passing the impugned judgment without realizing the -5- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

fact that the marriage between the appellant and respondent

has not been consummated and they have never started their

life of matrimony between themselves. 16. It has been submitted that it is apparent that the

respondent-wife has suppressed the material fact that she

was married twice and marriage with the appellant was third

one. 17. Further submission has been made that certificate of

marriage obtained from the office of Marriage Registrar,

Ghatshila on 06.01.2020 since has been obtained by

suppressing the fact that the respondent was married earlier

and she is a widow lady but she deliberately sworn the

affidavit stated her to be unmarried. 18. Learned counsel for the appellant has submitted that

the learned family court has taken hyper-technical approach

while appreciating the provisions of Section 25(iii) of the

Special Marriage Act. 19. Learned counsel for the appellant, based upon the

aforesaid grounds, has submitted that the judgment

impugned suffers from perversity, as such, is not sustainable

in the eyes of law. Analysis: 20. This Court has heard the learned counsel for the

appellant and gone through the finding recorded by the -6- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

learned Additional Principal Judge in the impugned

judgment. 21. This Court, in order to come to a finding to the above

point of adjudication has appreciated the testimony of the

witnesses. 22. The petitioner-appellant in order to establish his case

has examined himself and one other witness namely

Sudarshan Murmu as P.W.1 and P.W.2 respectively.

However, no document has been proved and exhibited on

behalf of the petitioner is support of his case 23. This Court in order to appreciate the testimony available

on record has gone through the testimonies of the witnesses. 24. P.W. 1-Rajesh Murmu in his examination-in-chief,

given by way of affidavit, has corroborated his averments/

statements given in his plaint/petition by stating that he is

working as Chief Cashier in Bank of India and he was

married to respondent Anita Mardi on 06.01.2020 before

Marriage Registrar, Ghatshila and it was a love marriage. At

the time of said marriage, the respondent in her affidavit had

deposed that she is unmarried and she also stated before him

that she is unmarried. She got a marriage certificate bearing

no.2/2020 dtd-01.01.20. After the registration of marriage

when he reached his village on 08.01.2020 for performing

marriage through Sarna Customs then he came to know from -7- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

the villagers that respondent Anita Mardi is already married

and her husband has died. But the respondent concealing

this fact by playing fraud got married to him. When he

inquired about this, respondent stopped talking to him. The

villagers stopped them from performing marriage through

Sarna Rituals started giving him mental torture. Their

marriage could not become effective and since 12.01.2020 he

is not having any relation with the respondent and she is

staying at her parental place at Parulia, Khadgadia,

Musaboni. He has further deposed tht he has not filed this

suit with any collusion or hiding any fact and his claim for

nullifying this marriage is correct. When he asked the

respondent to dissolve the marriage she refused to do so and

wrong and since inception her intention was wrong and got

herself married to him by doing fraud by concealing the fact

of previous marriage. 25. P.W.2, who is the cousin brother of the petitioner-

appellant, has also corroborated the fact averred in the plaint

and the evidence of the petitioner-P.W.1 by stating that the

petitioner and respondent were married on 06.01.2020 before

Marriage Registrar, Ghatshila and at the time of marriage the

respondent had given an affidavit with her signature stating

herself to be unmarried. The said fact was told to him by the

petitioner-appellant. On 08.01.2020 when the petitioner- -8- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

appellant told him that he want to get married with the

respondent as per customs and the respondent is from his

village, then he told the petitioner-appellant that she is

already married and her husband has died. The respondent

hiding this fact married the petitioner-appellant by cheating

him. When he made inquiry about this he came to know that

the respondent has cheated the petitioner-appellant and the

villagers stopped them from performing marriage through

Sarna customs. Then the petitioner-appellant told him that

respondent stopped talking to the petitioner-appellant since

08.01.2020. He is also having the knowledge that when the

petitioner-appellant asked the respondent for dissolution of

the marriage, then she flatly refused and threatened the

petitioner-appellant. From the beginning the intention of the

respondent was wrong and hiding the said fact she got

married to the petitioner-appellant and he also knows that

their marriage has not been consummated and the petitioner-

appellant is not having any relation with the respondent since

12.01.2020 and she is staying at her parental place. From

the villagers he came to know that the respondent after

playing fraud got married to the petitioner-appellant

concealing the fact of her earlier marriage. The claim of the

petitioner-appellant to nullify the marriage is correct. -9- 2025:JHHC:37895-DB 26. The learned Family Court, after appreciating the

evidence on record, dismissed the suit by the impugned

judgement and decree. 27. From the testimony adduced on behalf of appellant, it is

evident that the said two witnesses have supported the

contention/averments made in the plaint and have

established from their oral evidence that the petitioner-

appellant was married to the respondent on 06.01.2020

under the Special Marriage Act before the Marriage Registrar

at Ghatshila. 28. It is the case of the appellant-husband that the

respondent-wife at the time of marriage before the Registrar

Ghatshila, while filing application, she on oath stated her

status to be unmarried but latter on when the petitioner-

appellant tried to do marriage with the respondent through

Tribal rituals at his village at Edelbera the villagers opposed

the solemnization of marriage between the petitioner-

appellant and the respondent on the ground that the

respondent is a widow as her earlier husband of village

Benagadiya has died and marriage of a widow cannot be

performed under the tribal rituals. So the said fact came into

the knowledge of the petitioner-appellant when he went for

social marriage as per tribal culture. - 10 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB 29. It is contended that the said fact is a material fact,

which was not disclosed by the respondent at the time of

their registered marriage. So it was a misrepresentation on

the part of the respondent by concealing the fact of her earlier

marriage. Such contention of the appellant-husband has

been corroborated by P.W. 2 also in his testimony. Therefore,

the ground of fraud has been made by the appellant-husband

while giving his consent to the said marriage with the

respondent which was due to concealment of the fact of her

previous marriage by the respondent. Admittedly, before the

learned family court, the petitioner-appellant did not

substantiate his submission with any chit of paper and failed

to produce the affidavit which was submitted by the

respondent at the time of registered marriage in which

allegedly the respondent had stated her status to be

unmarried. 30. If the ground of fraud has been taken on the basis of

affidavit so furnished by the respondent-wife before the

Registrar of Marriage, then it was incumbent upon the

appellant to produce the same but he failed to do so, as such

it draws adverse inference against the appellant due to non

production of said evidence. 31. Further in the plaint there is no averment as to when

the said fraud was detected by the appellant-Rajesh Murmu - 11 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

although in his evidence he has stated that on 08.01.2020 he

came to know about the fact that respondent Anita Mardi is a

widow when he went to his village to get married through

Sarna rituals. P.W.2 has deposed that he came to know

about the said fact from P.W.1 on 08.01.2020. Therefore, as

per testimony of P.W. 2 also, the said fraud was detected on

08.01.2020. 32. From the pleadings available on record, as discussed

above, the moot question which fell for consideration before

this Court is as to whether the respondent-wife played fraud

upon the appellant by not disclosing the fact that she is a

widow and married him through registered marriage at

Ghatshila before the Marriage Registrar under Special

Marriage Act ? 33. In order to appreciate the aforesaid issue, it would be

apt to refer the relevant provisions of Special Marriage Act 1954 (herein referred as Act 1954) which reads as under: 2025:JHHC:37895-DB (ii) though capable of giving a valid consent, has been
suffering from mental disorder of such a kind or to such an
extent as to be unfit for marriage and the procreation of
children; or (iii) has been subject to recurrent attacks of insanity; (c) the male has completed the age of twenty-one years and
the female the age of eighteen years; 5 (d) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited
relationship: Explanation.-- In this section, "custom", in relation to a
person belonging to any tribe, community, group or family,
means any rule which the State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf as
applicable to members of that tribe, community, group or
family: 5. Notice of intended marriage.-- When a marriage is
intended to be solemnized under this Act, the parties to
the marriage shall give notice thereof in writing in - 13 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

the form specified in the Second Schedule to the Marriage
Officer of the district in which at least one of the parties to
the marriage has resided for a period of not less than thirty
days immediately preceding the date on which such notice
is given. 7. Objection to marriage.--(1) Any person may, before
the expiration of thirty days from the date on which
any such notice has been published under sub-section
(2) of section 6 , object to the marriage on the ground
that it would contravene one or more of the conditions
specified in section 4 . (2) After the expiration of thirty days from the date on which
notice of an intended marriage has been published under
sub-section (2) of section 6 , the marriage may be
solemnized, unless it has been previously objected to under
sub-section (1). (3) The nature of the objection shall be recorded in writing
by the Marriage Officer in the Marriage Notice Book, be read
over and explained if necessary, to the person making the
objection and shall be signed by him or on his behalf. 13. Certificate of marriage.--(1) When the marriage has
been solemnized, the Marriage Officer shall enter a
certificate thereof in the form specified in the Fourth
Schedule in a book to be kept by him for that purpose and
to be called the Marriage Certificate Book and such
certificate shall be signed by the parties to the marriage and
the three witnesses. (2) On a certificate being entered in the Marriage Certificate
Book by the Marriage Officer, the Certificate shall be
deemed to be conclusive evidence of the fact that a
marriage under this Act has been solemnized and
that all formalities respecting the signatures of
witnesses have been complied with." - 14 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB 34. Thus, Section 4 of the Act 1954 lays down conditions

relating to solemnization of special marriages. The Section

says "any two persons" of any caste, creed, religion and faith,

domicile or nationality could solemnize marriages with

certain territorial or other limitations. Marriage is to be

performed between two persons in India under certain

conditions as enumerated in clauses (a) to (e) of Section 4 of

the Act 1954. 35. Section 5 of the Act 1954 lays down the procedure of an

intended marriage. This Section envisages that when parties

to the marriage intends to solemnize the marriage under this

Act, they shall give a notice in the prescribed form to the

marriage officer of the district in which at least one of the

parties of the marriage are resided for a period of not less

than 30 days immediately preceding the date on which notice

is given. The provisions are clear and exhaustive in nature

while making it clear that the desirous parties to give their

intention to marry. 36. Section 7 of the said Act envisages that, any person

before expiry of 30 days, notice can object to the marriage on

the ground that it would contravene one or more of the

conditions specified in Section 4 and not otherwise. There is

no special form of marriage solemnization under the Act.

Only certain formalities have to be undergone as per the Act. - 15 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB 37. Section 13 of the Act 1954 envisages that when a

marriage has been solemnized, the marriage officer shall

enter a certificate thereof in the form specified and he shall

enter in the book kept by him for the said purpose and would

be called the marriage certificate book. On the certificate

being entered in the marriage certificate book by the marriage

officer, the certificate shall be deemed to be conclusive

evidence of the fact that the marriage under this Act has been

solemnized and all the formalities respecting the signature of

the witnesses has been complied with. Therefore, the

certificate of marriage issued by the marriage officer is

conclusive proof of the fact of marriage, due consent of the

parties to the marriage. In such cases, it is not open to say

that the marriage was illegal or invalid because, certain

formalities required by the Act were not followed. The

legislature intended that, if this had not been provided, then

the persons other than the parties to the marriage certificate

could also prove the defect in the procedure followed in a

particular marriage with the result that the offsprings of such

union would have become illegitimate children and regarding

succession to male spouse, different course could have

followed i.e., the children born from such alliance could not

succeed. To avoid the complication, the law makers have

attached conclusiveness to the certificate of marriage. - 16 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB 38. At this juncture it is considered view of this Court that

reference of Section 25 of the Act 1954 requires to be referred

herein which reads as under: - 17 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB 39. Section 25(iii) of the Act 1954 envisages that the Court

can grant a decree of nullity on the ground that any marriage

solemnized under Act 1954 can be voidable if the consent of

either party to the marriage is obtained by coercion or fraud.

Sub-clause (iii) of Section 25 of the Act 1954 clearly envisages

that fraud and coercion are the other grounds on which a

decree of annulment of marriage has been provided. The

Section has described the scope of definition by making it

clear that "fraud and coercion" will have the same meaning as

defined in the Indian Contract Act . "Fraud" is defined under Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. 40. The meaning of „fraud‟ as envisaged by Section 25(iii) of

the Act, has its absolute moorings in the Indian Contract Act,

1872 . Section 17 of Act 1872 "Fraud" means as under: - 18 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

 Explanation.-- Mere silence as to facts likely to affect
 the willingness of a person to enter into a contract is
 not fraud, unless the circumstances of the case are
 such that, regard being had to them, it is the duty of
 the person keeping silence to speak, or unless his
 silence, is, in itself, equivalent to speech." 41. Thus, for an annulment of marriage under Section

25(iii) of the Act 1954, it is important to prove that the

consent for the marriage was obtained by coercion or fraud as

defined in Indian Contract Act . 42. In the backdrop of the aforesaid settled position of law

this Court is now re-adverting to the factual aspect of the

instant case. 43. Herein, the appellant/husband is under Section 25(iii) of the Act of 1954 praying for a decree of nullity of the

marriage solemnized on 06.01.2020 under the Act of 1954

vide Marriage Certificate No.2/2020 dated 6.1.2020 on the

ground of it having been solemnized in a fraudulent manner. 44. From the settled position of law as discussed and

referred hereinabove, it is evident that the jurisdiction to

declare a marriage to be nullity under Section 25(iii) of the

Act of 1954 would be available when the consent of either

party to the marriage was obtained by coercion or fraud. 45. The appellant has examined altogether two oral

witnesses in support of his contention and admittedly no - 19 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

document was produced before the learned family in support

of his contention. 46. Furthermore, from the above facts and evidences

brought on record it is evident that the marriage certificate

has been issued by the Marriage Registrar after going

through the processes for registration of the marriage and the

petitioner/appellant was aware that he is appearing before

the Special Marriage Officer for registration of the marriage

and he presented the documents as required and put his

signature. The marriage certificate has validly been issued,

which is not in question rather the declaration given by the

respondent-wife that though she is a widow lady but in the

affidavit she has given declaration that she is unmarried only

on the ground of suit has been instituted seeking decree of

divorce. 47. Herein, it is not the case that appellant married

respondent without his free will and consent and he was not

put under any fraud or coercion. It It is the case of the

appellant that when he went for solemnization of marriage as

per Sarna customs then only in village he came to know that

the respondent is widow, which she concealed as such there

is fraud played by her for contracting marriage. 48. Learned family court further took note of the fact that

as per clause (a) of second proviso to section 25 of the Special - 20 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

Marriage Act, the court shall not grant a decree if proceedings

have not been instituted within one year after the fraud had

been discovered. In the case at hand, the fraud was detected

on 08.01.2020 and the present suit was filed on 18.01.2021

i.e., after more than one years. So the statutory period for

filing the present suit has not been adhered to by the

appellant and has not been filed within prescribed time, so as

per the said provision, he is not entitled for decree of divorce

under section 25(iii) of the Special Marriage Act. 49. For the discussions made hereinabove, this Court is of

the view that there is no reason to take a distinct view as has

been taken by learned family court. 50. The learned family Judge, has also took note that in

Clause (b) of the second proviso to section 25 of Special

Marriage Act, it has been provisioned that after the fraud has

been discovered, the appellant if has with his or her free

consent lived with the other party to the marriage as

husband and wife, the court shall not grant a decree. As per

para 8 of the plaint/petition the parties has neither cohabited

as husband and wife at the matrimonial home and marriage

has not been consummated, although there is no categorical

assertion in the plaint that after 08.01.2020 when the fraud

was discovered the petitioner-appellant and the respondent

did not live as husband and wife with their free consent and - 21 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

even in the evidence of the petitioner-appellant also it has not

been categorically stated that since 08.01.2020, the

petitioner-appellant and the respondent did not live as

husband and wife as per their own free consent and as per

para 11 of his evidence, the petitioner-appellant is not having

any relation with the respondent since 12.01.2020, so the

appellant has also not been able to clearly satisfy the

requirement of said clause (b) also which was also necessary

for getting a decree. So the appellant has not satisfied all the

necessary requirements of law in order to get a decree under

the said provision. 51. On the basis of discussions made hereinabove, this

Court is of the view that all the ingredients of section 25(iii) of

the Special Marriage Act has not been satisfied and the

appellant has accordingly failed to establish his case and

hence he is not entitled to the relief U/s 25(iii) of the Special

Marriage Act of annulling the marriage solemnized between

the petitioner-appellant and the respondent on 06.01.2020

before the Marriage Registrar Ghatshila under the Special

Marriage Act . 52. The learned family judge, taking into consideration the

aforesaid facts, has dismissed the suit filed by the petitioner-

appellant [husband] under Section 25(iii) of the Special - 22 - 2025:JHHC:37895-DB

 Marriage Act, for dissolution of marriage, which according to

 our considered view requires no interference. 53. Accordingly, the instant appeal fails and is dismissed. 54. Pending Interlocutory Application, if any, stands

 disposed of. (Sujit Narayan Prasad, J.)

 (Arun Kumar Rai, J.)
 17th December, 2025

A.F.R.
Alankar/- - 23 -