and background of the case: The CPIO replied vide letter dated 07.10.2024 and the same is reproduced as under:- With Reference to Iron Centre Branch: The Appellant filed a First Appeal dated 24.10.2024 alleging that the information is
denied. The FAA vide order dated 19.11.2024 stated as under:- With Reference to Iron Centre Branch: Aggrieved and dissatisfied, the Appellant approached the Commission with the instant
Second Appeal. Facts emerging in Course of Hearing: The Truth: The suit was filed against the Bank itself to compel the return of
 documents and locker access. The Bank is lying about the nature of the litigation to
 avoid RTI disclosure. 3. CONTRADICTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS: The Bank claims "Legal
 Heirship" is undecided. The Truth: The Sub-Collector's Order and the District Judge's Eviction Order have
 already confirmed the Appellant's possession and rights. The Bank is wilfully
 ignoring executive orders. 1. CONTRADICTION ON KNOWLEDGE: The Bank says they need a

 Court-issued Heirship certificate. In their own reply to the CEO letter clearly
 mentioned the Legal Heir Certificate issued by "Competent Authority/ Court." The
 Sub Collector Order has been submitted multiple times since 27.05.2023, Hence the
 bank is an utter liar. 5. CONTRADICTION ON THE "DISPUTE": The Bank claims they are protecting
 "Third Party" privacy. The Truth: They already allowed the lockers to be opened/settled in 2022. They are
 not protecting privacy; they are protecting the Audit Trail of who emptied the
 lockers BY VIOLATING PMLA/KYC REGULATION under RBI guidelines." The respondent reiterated their written submission dated 10.12.2025 and the same is
reproduced as under:- judice and yet to be disposed by the Hon'ble Civil Court. In the said case, apart from
 the Bank, the third person (by name Smt. Swapna Tapadia) who is also claiming to
 be one of the legal heirs of Govind Lal Tapadia is a party and is represented as
 Respondent No. 3. To date, the Hon'ble Civil Court has neither passed any order of
 ascertaining the rightful heir of the deceased persons or declaring the Appellant as
 the sole legal heirs of all the deceased persons. Due to uncertainty and conflicting
 claims in ascertaining the lawful legal heirs of the all the deceased persons whose
 information is sought in the Original Application, the CPIO & the FAA rejected the
 information request of the Appellant and also informed that the bank has already
 filed its Counter/Written Submission before the Hon'ble Civil Court along with all
 the relevant documents which were duly submitted to the counsel of the Appellant
 and forms part of the Case records. Before institution of the Civil Cases, the bank
 had on several occasions informed the Appellant, during his visits to the bank, to
 produce succession/legal heir certificate from the competent court in respect of all
 accounts/lockers and other assets of the deceased persons, however, the Appellant
 to date has not produced any such certificate to claim sole heirship for all the
 deceased persons. Since, the information of the deceased persons in questions
 involves the interest of other persons who too have claimed to be one of the legal
 heirs, the CPIO and FAA did not disclose the information to the Appellant by duly
 mentioning the reasons for such rejection. 7. It is submitted that the present appeal is liable to be dismissed on the ground that
 CPIO or FAA are not competent to decide disputes among the parties as to their
 rights to obtain information. It is submitted that if the subject matter of information,
 the disclosure of which is connected with rights of several persons who are disputing
 among themselves and have already approached a competent court to settle the
 disputes, any information/document provided by a Public Authority under the RTI

CIC/CANBK/A/2024/139599 Page 9 of 13 Act on sole request of a single party, without the consent of other litigants would
 amount to pre-judging the issues which is sub-judice before a competent court.
 Reference in this regard is invited to the judgment of the Hon'ble CIC passed in the
 matter of Housing Development Finance Corporation vs CPIO: National Housing
 Bank, Lodhi Road, New Delhi. Relevant paras of the decision are reproduced
 hereunder: It is submitted that the CPIO in its reply dated 07.10.2024 and the FAA vide its
 order dated 19.11.2024 have expressly clarified to the Appellant that all the
 information sought by him may be disclosed once Hon'ble Civil Court adjudicates
 the pending case and decides the legal heirs of all the deceased persons, particularly

 Mr. Govind Lal Tapadia. Thus, the CPIO or FAA has not violated the spirit of the RTI Act by deliberately withholding any information as the CPIO and FAA have
 assigned proper and just reasons to the Appellant for their decisions. 8. In addition to the aforesaid ground, it is submitted that the Appellant has made
 several defamator allegations against the bank of committing fraud and colluding
 with other party without any proof or order from a competent court declaring the
CIC/CANBK/A/2024/139599 Page 10 of 13 acts of the Bank as Fraud. It is submitted that the Appellant cannot use the forums
 under the RTI Act to seek information for his personal grievances. It is a settled
 principle of law that for redressal of personal grievance, any RTI applicant is
 advised to approach an appropriate forum. Reference in this regard is invited to the
 judgment of the Hon'ble CIC passed in the matter of Mr. T. C. Sadhwani vs CPIO,
 United India Insurance Company Limited (CIC/UIICL/A/2017/167414-BJ ).
 Relevant paras of the decision are reproduced hereunder: 9. In addition to the aforesaid ground, it is submitted that the present appeal is not
 maintainable before the Hon'ble CIC as the CIC is not a judicial forum to decide
 the disputes among the parties as to their rights to obtain information and thus the

 present appeal is liable to be dismissed. Reference in this regard is invited to the
 judgment of The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Union of India v.
 Namit Sharma in Review Petition [C] No. 2309 of 2012 in Writ Petition [C] No.210
 of 2012 with State of Rajasthan and Anr. vs. Namit Sharma Review Petition [C]
 No.2675 OF 2012 in Writ Petition [C] No.210 of 2012. Relevant paras of the
 judgment are reproduced hereunder: Decision: