SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Kindly help, I don't know what to ahead in my life. 
DATE: 2024-10-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ft58ns/kindly_help_i_dont_know_what_to_ahead_in_my_life/

--- POST TEXT ---

It is one life.
 I really don't want to sacrifice it being a doctor. But I did not take mathematics in +1 and +2 and cannot convince my parents for a career change as I don't know what to do in my life.

I really don't know. I am in that position where I have developed extreme apathy towards anything. Even for me now being a cashier seems viable like that has been the level of apathy I have grown towards every thing.

And why does it all stem down to? Me being a topper. I had a 95 in 12th CBSE and a 99 in 10th ICSE. I was the kid who would do everything bright. But suddenly something changed- I shifted to a house where the lights directly fall on my eyes. 2 years passed with endless fights and abuses from my parents to me and vice versa. 

This ruined up everything. All desires to do anything in life. And then came the d-day NEET- when I decided to score 637. I was sure that atleast college would help me find my interest. I will gather 10L somehow and pay the bind if I quit college or if luck persists, I will perseverance MBBS as I really liked human body.

But then the entire NEET scam fiasco came- I am stuck in my home, NIT studied anything and giving completely up on the idea of doing anything in life.

I don't know- for me it two things- study till a postdoc or fellowship after anything or don't study at all. There are people who have succeded passing 12th ir passing plain graduation- do that. Just don't come in a thankless job with no life, no emotion and no sense of belonging. People should know you however it is- as a topper, as a controversial figure, as a youtuber or as anything. Sacrifice money- would work but never Sacrifice om fame.

Or do something so bad that you end up marrying someone with tons of generation wealth and FAME- a man or a woman (I am bisexual guy, which is another story ahead).

I am at that point of life where I don't know what to do. I know what not to do- no choosing career based on money and placement, no dealing with numbers and no dealing with physically strength demanding jobs (aka Army is out of options for me) or hyper-nationalistic jobs.

Be a director, maybe? But it is so unrealistic for a middle class family from Mumbai with generational trauma. What to do? Unaliving does not seem to be an option. I just know that being an enginer would not help and being a doctor is a thankless job in India. 

Take something in writing? Maybe, but I don't know how to go about it. Will it even work?

Seek therapy? Tried doing that the last 4 years, all the psychiatrist ended up to be more detrimental. Seek going out and enjoying life sometime? No. Won't. Why? I can't. I am raised by strict parents. Not as strict as shown in Bollywood movies but strict enough to sick the mental health out of you.

My parents have stopped giving attention to me for anything. I am stuck in a cage where I will perish. I really don't want that. Life is beyond an exam- and beyond everything. I can't accept something that is not of my accord. I can't. 

Kudos to people who gove up on their dreams to satisfy the society or follow their passion but I don't have dreams- and I know that I will never survive doing anything that is socially acceptable- engineering, CA, business, economics, law (maybe) and don't have the heart for medical.

What to do? I can't take opportunity in my hand- I want to make it big. So big that I want every single person to now my name. But how? 

Join DU? Take something in literature? My stupid ego comes out. Could not fill literature instead opted zoology in DU (KMC). Did not join as everyone would laugh at me.

And why not? 5 people topped my school in 10th. 1 of them bagged a rank under 300 in JEE advanced, 1 bagged a rank under 1000 in JEE Mains and 2 of them ended up getting a premier college. I was the 4th guy left. 

What about others? Some are in IISc, some in AIIMS, some in NLU, some in NIT, majority in BITS and some in state colleges. And some - who took others are in SRCC type colleges in Mumbai (Delhi University is looked as a last option here- I had people comparing KMC with a local engineering college which is popular on reels)

Please help. I want to get out of this shit of life. Please. Could have joined DU but a score of 740/800 could not give me a top DU college- had to reply on science for that. And I am not yet matured to leave my house, settle in another city for something which I don't know I should have pursued or not. (Ah! The irony)

Just please help. And please give viable options. I am already in the middle of a drop year and have not touched a single book. And have not done a single thing productive. And have lost all the motivation to do ANYTHING in life.