NAVIN CHAWLA, J. 1. This appeal has been filed under Section 50 of the Arbitration
 and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the „A&C Act‟),
 challenging the order dated 02.06.2023 passed by the learned Single
 Judge of this Court in OMP(EFA)(COMM) 1/2019, titled The Union Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 1 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 of India v. Reliance Industries Ltd. & Anr. (hereinafter referred to as,
 „Impugned Order‟). 2. The respondents have taken a preliminary objection challenging
 the maintainability of the present appeal under Section 50 of the A&C
 Act. Mr. Harish Salve, the learned senior counsel appearing for the
 respondents, and Mr. R. Venkataramani, the learned Attorney General
 of India appearing for the appellant, therefore, confined their
 submissions to the same issue and by the present judgment, we shall
 be considering only the said objection. We may herein itself clarify
 that any observation made by us in the subsequent part of our present
 judgment, would be only for the purposes of answering the objection
 raised by the respondents and shall not be considered as a reflection
 on the merits of the appeal. BRIEF BACKGROUND OF FACTS: 3. To appreciate the objection raised, a brief background of facts
 in which the present appeal arises, would be necessary. The same are
 as under: 3.2 M/s B.G. Exploration and Production India Limited
 (respondent no.2) entered into the shoes of ENRON in 2004,
 and accordingly, on 10.01.2005, the PSCs were amended.
 3.3 In terms of the PSCs, the respondents together have 60%
 participating interest, while ONGC has 40% interest. The
 respondents were to extract the oil at their own costs,
 recoverable as „Cost Petroleum‟ (hereinafter referred to as
 „CP) from the appellant, however, subject to a specified
 upper „Cost Recovery Limit‟ (hereinafter referred to as
 „CRL‟). Additionally, the appellant and the respondents
 were to be entitled to share in the profit earned by sale of the
 extracted petroleum, referred to as „Petroleum Profit‟
 (hereinafter referred to as „PP‟). These shares were to be
 determined on the basis of an „Investment Multiple‟
 (hereinafter referred to as „IM‟). 3.4 It is the case of the appellant that certain differences arose
 between the parties qua the above and various other
 provisions including royalties, cess, service tax, etc., of the
 PSCs, and the respondents invoked the Arbitration Clause in
 the PSCs. 3.5 The Arbitral Tribunal, vide its Partial Award dated
 12.09.2012, rejected the preliminary objections raised by the
 appellant with respect to arbitrability of disputes raised by
 the respondents. This Award was called the Final Partial Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 3 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 Award on Arbitrability. 3.6 The Arbitral Tribunal passed a Partial Award dated
 10.12.2012 on the interpretation of certain provisions of the
 PSCs. This Award is referred to as the „CRL Award‟.
 3.7 The Arbitral Tribunal, thereafter, gave the Final Partial
 Award dated 12.10.2016 (hereinafter referred to as the „FPA
 2016)‟, by a majority of 2:1, rendering 63 findings. A
 Clarificatory Order dated 28.12.2016 was also passed by the
 learned Arbitral Tribunal. The said Award is the subject
 matter of the Execution Application filed by the appellant
 which has resulted in the impugned order. To understand the
 challenge of the respondent and the impugned order,
 however, developments subsequent to the FPA 2016 are also
 relevant and therefore, are being narrated in brief hereunder.
 3.8 The FPA 2016 was challenged by the respondents before the
 High Court of London. It is the case of the appellant that the
 High Court, vide its Judgment dated 16.04.2018, dismissed
 eight out of nine challenges filed by the respondents qua the
 FPA 2016, however, noted that the Arbitral Tribunal had not
 adjudicated on the issue of Additional Development Costs
 claimed by the respondents herein, and therefore, remanded
 the matter back to the Arbitral Tribunal to adjudicate on the
 said Claim of the respondents. 3.9 It is the case of the appellant that the Arbitral Tribunal, vide
 its Award dated 01.10.2018, partially allowed the claim of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 4 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 the respondents herein qua the Additional Development
 Costs, however, held that a part of the Claim was beyond the
 scope of the principal PSCs, and therefore, dismissed the
 same. 3.10 The Award dated 01.10.2018 was challenged by both the
 parties before the High Court in London.
 3.11 The learned Arbitral Tribunal also rendered a Final
 Partial Award dated 12.03.2019 (CRL Jurisdiction Award).
 3.12 It is the case of the appellant that the challenge of the
 appellant against the Award dated 01.10.2018 was
 dismissed, while the challenge of the respondents accepted
 by the High Court in London, vide its Order dated
 12.02.2020, and matter remitted back to the Arbitral
 Tribunal for adjudicating on the claim regarding the Expand
 Plan of Development, holding the same to be within the
 scope of the present arbitration proceedings.
 3.13 Thereafter, by a majority Award dated 29.01.2021, the
 Arbitral Tribunal deferred the adjudication for the claim of
 the respondents of the increase in cost, to the stage when it
 would consider the case regarding the increase in CRL. The
 said FPA also came to be challenged by the appellant.
 3.14 It is the case of the appellant that, in spite of the above
 developments subsequent to the FPA 2016, the
 determination by the Arbitral Tribunal in its FPA 2016
 remained unaffected qua the Total Cost of Petroleum and Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 5 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 Profit Petroleum, which fell due to the appellant herein.
 3.15 The appellant filed the Enforcement Petition, being
 OMP(EFA)(COMM) 1/2019, seeking execution of the Final
 Partial Award dated 12.10.2016, to recover a sum of USD
 3,856,734,582 purportedly in terms of the said Award. IMPUGNED ORDER 4. The learned Single Judge of this Court, vide the Impugned
 Order dated 02.07.2023, dismissed the Execution Petition filed by the
 appellant, by holding the same to be premature, however, reserved
 liberty with the appellant to move for execution at an appropriate
 stage. 5. The learned Single Judge has held that mere declaratory
 Awards, which cannot be reduced to hard cash, cannot be executed in
 terms of money. It has held that for a purely declaratory Award to be
 executed like a money decree, the Award must, firstly, identify one of
 the parties to the dispute as entitled to receive a quantifiable sum of
 money from the other, and, secondly, set out the principles on the
 basis of which such quantification is to be done, so that all that is
 required to be done by the Executing Court is application of pure
 arithmetic. The learned Single Judge held that the FPA 2016 does not
 meet this test. 6. The learned Single Judge held that the FPA 2016 does not
 award any amount to the appellant herein. It was further held that the
 determination of CRL being the most essential element for computing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 6 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 the amount of claim for Cost Petroleum („CP‟), has not attained
 finality, therefore, the liability of the respondents herein towards the
 appellant for the said claim cannot be determined. 7. It was further held that an Execution Petition cannot be
 preferred under Section 48 of the A&C Act, if the Award decides only
 some of the issues, while deferring the decision regarding the
 remaining. 8. The learned Single Judge further held that the execution sought
 by the appellant for the FPA 2016, was itself contrary to the said
 Award as the Arbitral Tribunal has itself held that the findings therein
 can be implemented only once the application by the respondents
 seeking increase of CRL as well as other issues is adjudicated upon by
 the Arbitral Tribunal. 9. The learned Single Judge also held that while seeking such
 execution, the appellant herein has ignored the subsequent Awards
 passed by the Arbitral Tribunal and hence, the FPA 2016 cannot be
 enforced dehors the findings contained in the other Awards. 10. Importantly, the learned Single Judge held that the grounds set
 out in Section 48(1) of the A&C Act do not imply that an Award
 which is per se inexecutable should be executed by the Court. It held
 that the Court can justifiably refuse to execute the Award applying Section 48(2)(b) read with its Explanation 1(ii) of the A&C Act. 11. We may quote from the Impugned Order as under: (Emphasis supplied)
 What would be required, therefore, for a
 purely declaratory award to be executed like a
 money decree is, therefore, that the award
 must, firstly, identify one of the parties to the
 dispute as entitled to receive a quantifiable
 sum of money from the other, and, secondly, to
 set out the principles on the basis of which
 such quantification is to be done, so that all
 that is required to be done by the executing
 Court is application of pure arithmetic. 56. By no stretch of the imagination, in my
 view, can the 2016 FPA be said to be so
 explicit and clear regarding the existence of a
 definite liability of the respondents to the
 petitioner, and regarding the method of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 11 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 computing and quantifying that liability, that
 all that is required, to work out the annas and
 paise, is mere arithmetic. Nor can the manner
 in which the Execution Petition works out the
 amount which, according to the petitioner, is
 due to it from the respondents, be said to be a
 purely arithmetical exercise, fitting figures
 into the formula which the FPA provides. xxx 58. Rather, the learned AT is explicit in its
 declaration that the implementation of the
 findings in its 2016 FPA would be undertaken
 by the learned AT itself after it pronounced on
 all issues in the arbitral proceedings and went
 on to deliver its final quantum award. Prior
 thereto, applying the principles cited supra, it
 cannot be said that an enforceable declaratory
 award stood rendered by the learned AT, in
 the form of the 2016 FPA. 59. Considerable reliance was placed by the
 learned ASG on Section 48(1) of the 1996 Act
 to contend that, as the grounds urged by the
 respondents to oppose the Execution Petition
 were not among those enumerated and
 envisaged in clauses (a) to (e) of Section
 48(1) , the 2016 FPA was ipso facto
 enforceable. The argument misses the wood
 for the trees. Clauses (a) to (e) of Section
 48(1) merely set out the circumstances in
 which the Court could refuse to execute an
 arbitral award, at the instance of the opposite
 party against whom the award is being sought
 to be executed. It does not, in any way, imply
 that an award which is per se inexecutable
 should be executed by the Court. When the
 CRL has to be known in order for the
 respondents' liability to the petitioner to be
 quantifiable, and the arbitral award, while
 pronouncing on all other issues, defers the
 CRL determination to a later stage, can it be
 said, nonetheless, that, as this factor is not one
 of those enumerated in Section 48(1) , the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 12 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 Court should proceed to execute the award,
 even though all factors which are required to
 be known for the award to be executed are still
 not known? The answer, quite obviously, has
 to be in the negative. xxx 61. To my mind, Explanation 1 to Section
 48(2) of the 1996 Act is a rare case of a
 statutory anomaly; and I say so in full
 awareness of the principle that anomaly is
 ordinarily not to be attributed to the
 legislature. Why, according to me,
 Explanation 1 is indeed a statutory anomaly is
 because, while Section 48(2)(b) refers to "the
 enforcement of the award'' being "contrary to
 the public policy of India", Explanation 1
 "clarifies" not when the enforcement of an
 award would be contrary to the public policy
 of India, but when an award itself would be
 contrary to the public policy of India. Indeed,
 the legislature appears, apparently innocently,
 to have imported, into Section 48 , Explanation
 1 in Section 34 , which applies to Section
 34(2)(b)(ii) , and which envisages, as one of
 the grounds on which an arbitral award can
 be challenged, the award itself being in
 conflict with the public policy of Indian law. xxx 65. "Adopting of a judicial approach" and
 "compliance with the principles of natural
 justice" are, therefore, inalienable insignia of
 the "fundamental policy of Indian law". Where
 adopting of a judicial approach, or complying
 with the principles of natural justice, would
 justify refusing to execute a foreign arbitral
 award in the manner in which the execution
 petitioner desires it to be executed, the Court
 may, therefore, justifiably refuse to execute the
 award, applying Section 48(2)(b) read with
 Explanation 1 (ii) thereto. 66. In the present case, can it be said that,
 in the teeth of the views expressed by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 13 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 learned AT itself, and the fact that the prayer
 of the respondent for third CRL increase, as
 was permissible under Article Article 13.1.4 (c) of the PSCs, was still pending before the
 learned AT after it had already been increased
 twice after the passing of the 2016 FPA,
 execution of the 2016 FPA as the petitioner
 seeks would be "adopting of a judicial
 approach", or in compliance with the
 principles of natural justice? 67. With respect, I should think not. 68. As, even applying the limited grounds
 envisaged in Section 48 of the 1996 Act in
 which a Court could refuse to execute an
 arbitral award, the 2016 FPA is found by me
 to be unexecutable, I do not feel that, in
 adopting the said view, I am in breach of the
 principles enunciated in Vijay Karia. Vijay
 Karia, in fact, envisages failure, on the part of
 the Arbitral Tribunal, to decide on the issues
 which arose for consideration before it as a
 legitimate ground on which the executing
 court could, under Section 48(2)(b) , refuse to
 execute the award. Mutatis mutandis, I would
 hold, the 2016 FPA cannot be enforced where
 one of the issues - of determination of the CRL
 to be applied - was still under seisin before the
 learned AT which had yet to pronounce
 thereon. xxx 70. ... In the present case, the respondents
 have, in Ex Appl. (OS) 1012/2020, indeed
 raised specific issues regarding the
 maintainability of the execution petition and
 enforceability of the 2016 FPA. These two
 issues are, in fact, interlinked, and any attempt
 at unravelling the skeins of one from the other
 is bound to be an abortive exercise. Though,
 superficially, an execution petition could be
 maintained for enforcement of any award,
 whether it is executable or not, the award can Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 14 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 be regarded as enforceable only if it is
 actually executable. Actual executability
 would require, as its sine qua non,
 determination, by the learned AT, of all the
 issues on the basis of which the liability of the
 parties towards each other can be fixed.
 Absent such determination, the award remains
 inchoate - as in the present case- and ex facie
 unenforceable. In the present case, the learned
 AT has itself held as much, on more than one
 occasion, most recently reiterating the position
 in the 2021 FPA by holding that the
 adjustment of the accounts was "an exercise to
 be undertaken after the Tribunal has
 determined all outstanding matters between
 the Parties, notably the Balance EPOD
 Agreements Case and the CRL Increase
 Applications." The 2016 FPA cannot,
 therefore, be enforced in isolation at this
 stage, as the petitioner would desire. As a
 petition which seeks enforcement of an
 unenforceable award, the present Execution
 Petition would also, ipso facto, not be
 maintainable. xxx 73. I am, therefore, of the view that the 2016
 FPA is not an executable arbitral award, for
 the following reasons: 12. Aggrieved of the Impugned Order, the appellant has filed the
 present appeal. SUBMISSIONS BY THE LEARNED SENIOR COUNSEL FOR
 THE RESPONDENTS ON MAINTAINABILITY: 13. Mr.Salve, the learned senior counsel appearing for the
 respondents, has contended that the Impugned Order cannot be said to
 have been passed under Section 48 of the A&C Act. He submits that
 only an Order passed under Section 48 of the A&C Act is appealable
 in terms of Section 50 of the A&C Act. Once it is established that the
 Impugned Order does not refuse to enforce the Foreign Award under Section 48 of the A&C Act, the order would not be appealable and the
 appellant would have to take its separate remedies in accordance with
 law to challenge the same. 14. To substantiate the above submission, the learned senior
 counsel for the respondents has submitted that the learned Single
 Judge, by the Impugned Order, has held that the execution petition
 filed the appellant is not maintainable and, in fact, allowing the prayer
 of the appellant at this stage would be contrary to the FPA 2016 itself,
 of which enforcement is being sought. He submits that this finding of
 the learned Single Judge is not premised on Section 48 of the A&C
 Act, but on the finding as to whether the said Award itself was
 enforceable and binding under Sections 46 and 49 of the A&C Act.
 The Impugned Order, therefore, cannot be challenged under Section
 50 of the A&C Act. 15. He submits that the learned Single Judge has noted that due to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 17 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 the Procedural Order dated 13.01.2014 read with the modified Partial
 Award dated 01.10.2018 and the FPA dated 29.01.2021, passed by the
 learned Arbitral Tribunal, which again was in challenge before the
 English Court, there was no Foreign Award to be enforced in terms of Section 46 of the A&C Act. He submits that, therefore, the Impugned
 Order cannot be read as a refusal of the learned Single Judge to
 execute the Foreign Award under Section 48 of the A&C Act, making
 it appealable under Section 50 of the A&C Act. 16. He submits that an appeal is a statutory right and not an inherent
 right vested in any party. Further, the provisions of the A&C Act are a
 complete Code and therefore, the general provisions of the Code of
 Civil Procedure , 1908 („ CPC ‟) or the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 cannot be invoked to support an appeal. In support, he places reliance
 on the judgments of the Supreme Court in Competition Commission
 of India v. Steel Authority of India Limited & Anr. , (2010) 10 SCC
 744; Amazon.com NV Investment v. Future Retail Ltd. & Ors. ,
 (2022) 1 SCC 209; Mohinder Singh (Dead) through Legal
 Representatives v. Paramjit Singh & Ors., (2018) 5 SCC 698; Union
 of India v. Mohindra Supply Co. , 1961 SCC OnLine SC 344; Fuerst
 Day Lawson Limited v. Jindal Exports Limited , ( 2011) 8 SCC 333,
 and Kandla Export Corporation & Anr. v. OCI Corporation & Anr. ,
 (2018) 14 SCC 715. 17. He submits that there can be various grounds on which the
 enforcement of a Foreign Award may be refused, for example,
 limitation or misreading of the Foreign Award. These circumstances, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 18 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 however, do not fall under Section 48 of the A&C Act and therefore,
 appeal under Section 50 of the A&C Act would not be maintainable. In support, he draws parallels with the judgments of the Supreme
 Court in Hindustan Copper Limited v. Nicco Corporation Limited ,
 ( 2009) 6 SCC 69 and BGS SGS Soma JV v. NHPC Limited , (2020) 4
 SCC 234, wherein it was held that an appeal under Section 37 of the
 A&C Act would lie only when the "preconditions mentioned therein" 18. He submits that Section 50 of the A&C Act must be construed
 literally, there being no ambiguity in the same. He submits that the
 learned Single Judge, by interpreting the FTA 2016, held that the
 same was not enforceable. He submits that this would not fall within
 the grounds of Section 48 of the A&C Act and, therefore, the
 Impugned Order would not be appealable under Section 50 of the
 A&C Act. 19. He submits that it was the own case of the appellant before the
 learned Single Judge and even in the present appeal, that the grounds
 on which the enforcement application has been dismissed, do not fall
 within the ambit and scope of Section 48 of the A&C Act. The
 appellant, therefore, cannot now contend that the enforcement
 application has been dismissed under Section 48 of the A&C Act. 20. He submits that any reference made by the learned Single Judge
 in the Impugned Order to Section 48 of the A&C Act, are obiter dicta
 as they have not been mentioned in the "Conclusion" by the learned
 Single Judge in paragraph 73 of the Impugned Order. 21. We must herein itself note that Mr. Salve also placed reliance
 on the judgments of the Supreme Court in Sarda Prasad & Ors. v.
 Lala Jumna Prasad & Ors. , 1961 SCC OnLine SC 278, and State of
 M.P. v. Mangilal Sharma , (1998) 2 SCC 510, to submit that mere
 declaratory decrees are not enforceable, however, as this would be
 touching also on the merits of the appeal, rather than being confined to
 its maintainability, we shall be refraining ourselves from considering
 the same in extenso, except as far as is considered necessary for
 answering the question of maintainability of the appeal. SUBMISSIONS BY THE LEARNED ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR
 THE APPELLANT ON MAINTAINABILITY: 22. Mr. Venkataramani, the learned AG, in support of the
 maintainability of the appeal submits that any order refusing to
 enforce a Foreign Award under Section 48 of the A&C Act, is
 appealable within the scope of Section 50 of the A&C Act. Once the
 learned Single Judge holds that the enforcement petition itself was not
 maintainable, it is a refusal to enforce the Foreign Award under Section 48 of the A&C Act and is therefore, appealable under Section
 50 of the A&C Act. He submits that the question of maintainability of
 the enforcement petition, cannot be independently considered or
 divorced from the question of enforceability of a Foreign Award under Section 48 of the A&C Act. In support, he places reliance on the
 judgments of the Supreme Court in LMJ International Limited v.
 Sleepwell Industries Company Limited , (2019) 5 SCC 302; Government of India v. Vedanta Limited & Ors. , (2020) 10 SCC 1; Chintels India Limited v. Bhayana Builders Pvt. Ltd. , (2021) 4 SCC
 602, and of the Bombay High Court in Nivaran Solutions, Goa and
 Ors v. Aura Thia Spa Services Pvt. Ltd., 2016 SCC OnLine Bom
 5062. 23. We must herein again note that the learned AG also made
 submissions on the limited scope of the jurisdiction vested in a Court
 to refuse the enforcement of a Foreign Award under Section 48 of the
 A&C Act, and how, according to him, the learned Single Judge has
 transgressed that scope of jurisdiction, especially placing reliance on
 the judgments of the Supreme Court in Vijay Karia & Ors. v.
 Prysmian Cavi e Sistemi SRL & Ors., (2020) 11 SCC 1; Kandla
 Export (supra); Vedanta Limited (supra); LMJ International Limited (supra); Gemini Bay Transcription Pvt. Ltd. v. Integrated Sales
 Services Ltd. & Anr. , ( 2022) 1 SCC 753, and KK Velusamy v.
 N.Palanisamy , (2011) 11 SCC 275, however, as this would again
 require us to consider the appeal on merits, we shall be restraining
 ourselves from considering the same in extenso, except as far as is
 necessary to answer the question of maintainability of the present
 appeal. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 24. We have considered the submissions made by the learned
 counsels for the parties. 25. At the outset, there can be no dispute to the proposition of law Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 21 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 urged by the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents, that
 right to appeal is a creature of a statute and not an inherent right.
 There can also be no dispute to the proposition, that the A&C Act
 being a complete Code in itself, the right to appeal is confined only
 against the limited orders mentioned in Section 37 or Section 50 of the
 A&C Act, as the case may be. In this regard, we would only note the
 judgment of the Supreme Court in Kandla Export (supra), wherein
 Supreme Court observed as under: Section 50 properly read would, therefore,
 mean that if an appeal lies under the said
 provision, then alone would Section 13(1) of the Commercial Courts Act be attracted
 as laying down the forum which will hear
 and decide such an appeal. xxx xxx xxx 25. What is important to note is that it is
 Section 50 that provides for an appeal, and
 not the letters patent, given the subject-
 matter of appeal. Also, the appeal has to be
 adjudicated within the parameters of
 Section 50 alone. Concomitantly, where
 Section 50 excludes an appeal, no such
 appeal will lie." 26. In view of the above, it must be held that, in terms of Section
 50(1)(b) of the A&C Act, an appeal shall lie only from an order
 refusing to enforce of a Foreign Award under Section 48 of the A&C
 Act. 27. Before we proceed further to examine whether the Impugned
 Order can be said to be one which has refused to enforce a Foreign
 Award under Section 48 of the A&C Act, we deem it appropriate to
 study the scheme of Chapter I of Part II to the A&C Act, which deals
 with the New York Convention Awards. The relevant provisions of
 the same are reproduced hereinunder: Explanation.--In this section and in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 24 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 sections following in this Chapter, "Court"
 means the High Court having original
 jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the
 subject-matter of the arbitral award if the
 same had been the subject-matter of a suit on
 its original civil jurisdiction and in other
 cases, in the High Court having jurisdiction to
 hear appeals from decrees of courts
 subordinate to such High Court. 48. Conditions for enforcement of foreign
 awards.--(1) Enforcement of a foreign award
 may be refused, at the request of the party
 against whom it is invoked, only if that party
 furnishes to the court proof that-- (a) the parties to the agreement referred to in
 section 44 were, under the law applicable to
 them, under some incapacity, or the said
 agreement is not valid under the law to which
 the parties have subjected it or, failing any
 indication thereon, under the law of the
 country where the award was made; or (b) the party against whom the award is
 invoked was not given proper notice of the
 appointment of the arbitrator or of the arbitral
 proceedings or was otherwise unable to
 present his case; or (c) the award deals with a difference not
 contemplated by or not falling within the terms
 of the submission to arbitration, or it contains
 decisions on matters beyond the scope of the
 submission to arbitration: Explanation 1.--For the avoidance of any
 doubt, it is clarified that an award is in
 conflict with the public policy of India, only
 if,-- (i) the making of the award was induced or
 affected by fraud or corruption or was in
 violation of section 75 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the fundamental
 policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most basic notions
 of morality or justice. Explanation 2.--For the avoidance of doubt,
 the test as to whether there is a contravention
 with the fundamental policy of Indian law
 shall not entail a review on the merits of the
 dispute. (3) If an application for the setting aside or
 suspension of the award has been made to a
 competent authority referred to in clause (e) of
 sub-section (1) the Court may, if it considers it
 proper, adjourn the decision on the
 enforcement of the award and may also, on the
 application of the party claiming enforcement
 of the award, order the other party to give
 suitable security. 49. Enforcement of foreign awards.--Where
 the Court is satisfied that the foreign award is
 enforceable under this Chapter, the award
 shall be deemed to be a decree of that Court. 50. Appealable orders.--(1) [Notwithstanding
 anything contained in any other law for the
 time being in force, an appeal] shall lie from
 the order refusing to-- (a) refer the parties to arbitration under
 section 45; (b) enforce a foreign award under section 48,
 to the court authorised by law to hear appeals
 from such order. (2) No second appeal shall lie from an order
 passed in appeal under this section, but
 nothing in this section shall affect or take
 away any right to appeal to the Supreme
 Court." 28. Section 46 of the A&C Act states that any Foreign Award
 „which would be enforceable under this Chapter‟ shall be treated as
 binding for all purposes on the persons as between whom it was made,
 and may accordingly be relied on by any of those persons by way of
 defence, set off or otherwise in any legal proceedings in India, and any
 references in the said Chapter to enforcing a Foreign Award shall be
 construed as including references to relying on an Award. Therefore,
 in terms of Section 46 of the A&C Act, a party can seek to rely on a
 Foreign Award in legal proceedings in India, without first seeking its
 formal enforcement in terms of Section 49 of the A&C Act. 29. Section 47 of the A&C Act gives the requisites of an
 application seeking enforcement of a Foreign Award. 30. Section 48 of the A&C Act gives the grounds on which the
 enforcement of a Foreign Award may be refused by the Court. It is in
 two parts; where sub-Section (1) provides for refusal to enforce the
 Award if the party „furnishes to the court proof‟ of any of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 27 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 circumstances mentioned in Clauses (a) to (e) thereof, while sub-
 Section (2) provides for the refusal of the Court to enforce the Award
 where it „finds‟ the existence of the circumstances mentioned in
 Clauses (a) and (b) thereof. 31. Section 49 of the A&C Act states that where the Court is
 satisfied that the Foreign Award is enforceable under Chapter I Part II
 of the A&C Act, the Award shall be deemed to be a decree of that
 Court. 32. A combined reading of the above provisions would show that
 Chapter I of Part II of the A&C Act provides a complete Code for the
 enforcement of a Foreign Award to which the New York Convention
 applies, starting from an application being made under Section 47 of
 the A&C Act for seeking enforcement, the Court considering the
 objections against its enforcement in Section 48 of the A&C Act, and
 if the Court finds that the Foreign Award is enforceable, Section 49 of
 the A&C Act providing that such Award shall be deemed to be a
 decree of that Court. 33. The Supreme Court in LMJ International Limited (supra),
 considering the above provisions, has held that the scheme of Section
 48 of the A&C Act does not envisage piecemeal consideration of the
 issue of maintainability of the application seeking enforcement of the
 Foreign Award, in the first place, and then the issue of enforceability
 thereof. It held that keeping in mind the legislative intent of speedy
 disposal of arbitration proceedings and limited interference by the
 Courts, the Court is expected to consider both these aspects Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 28 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 simultaneously at the threshold. We quote from the judgment as
 under:- 34. In Vedanta Limited (supra), the Supreme Court, examining the
 scheme of Sections 47 to 49 of the A&C Act, held as under: Under the 1996 Act, there is no requirement
 for the foreign award to be filed before the
 seat court, and obtain a decree thereon, after
 which it becomes enforceable as a foreign
 decree. This was referred to as the
 "double exequatur", which was a requirement
 under the Geneva Convention, 1927 and was
 done away with by the New York Convention,
 which superseded it. There is a paradigm shift
 under the 1996 Act. Under the 1996 Act, a
 party may apply for recognition and
 enforcement of a foreign award, after it is
 passed by the Arbitral Tribunal. The applicant
 is not required to obtain leave from the court
 of the seat in which, or under the laws of
 which, the award was made. 83.2. Section 44 of the 1996 Act provides
 that a New York Convention award would be
 enforceable, if the award is with respect to a
 commercial dispute, covered by a written
 agreement in a State with which the
 Government of India has a reciprocal
 relationship, as notified in the Official Gazette. 83.3. Section 46 provides that a foreign
 award which is enforceable under Chapter 1
 of Part II of the 1996 Act, shall be treated as
 final and binding on the parties, and can be
 relied upon by way of defence, set off, or
 otherwise, in any legal proceeding in India. 83.4. Section 47 sets out the procedure for
 filing the petition for enforcement/execution of
 a foreign award. This section replicates
 Article IV(1) of the New York Convention
 which requires the applicant to file the
 authenticated copy of the original award, or a
 certified copy thereof, along with the original
 agreement referred to in Article II, or a
 certified copy thereof, at the time of filing the
 petition. 83.5. Section 47 provides that the
 application shall be filed along with the
 following evidence i.e.: The submission that the execution petition Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 33 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 could not be permitted to convert as an
 application under Section 47 is technical and
 is of no consequence in the view we have
 taken. In our opinion, for enforcement of a
 foreign award there is no need to take
 separate proceedings, one for deciding the
 enforceability of the award to make it a rule of
 the court or decree and the other to take up
 execution thereafter. In one proceeding, as
 already stated above, the court enforcing a
 foreign award can deal with the entire matter.
 Even otherwise, this procedure does not
 prejudice a party in the light of what is stated
 in para 40 of Thyssen judgment." (emphasis supplied)

 83.8. In a recent judgment rendered
 in LMJ International Ltd. v. Sleepwell
 Industries Co. Ltd. [LMJ International
 Ltd. v. Sleepwell Industries Co. Ltd., (2019) 5
 SCC 302], this Court held that given the
 legislative intent of expeditious disposal of
 arbitration proceedings, and limited
 interference of the courts, the maintainability
 of the enforcement petition, and the
 adjudication of the objections filed, are
 required to be decided in a common
 proceeding. 83.9. The enforcement/execution petition is
 required to be filed before the High Court
 concerned, as per the amendment to Section
 47 by Act 3 of 2016 (which came into force on
 23-10-2015). The Explanation to Section 47
 has been amended, which now reads as: means the High Court having original
 jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the
 subject-matter of the arbitral award if the
 same had been the subject-matter of a suit on Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 34 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 its original civil jurisdiction and in other
 cases, in the High Court having jurisdiction to
 hear appeals from decrees of courts
 subordinate to such High Court." (emphasis supplied)

 83.10. Section 48 replicates Article V of
 the New York Convention, and sets out the
 limited conditions on which the enforcement of
 a foreign award may be refused. Sub-sections
 (1) and (2) of Section 48 contain seven
 grounds for refusal to enforce a foreign
 award. Sub-section (1) contains five grounds
 which may be raised by the losing party for
 refusal of enforcement of the foreign award,
 while sub-section (2) contains two grounds
 which the court may ex officio invoke to refuse
 enforcement of the award, i.e. non- arbitrability of the subject-matter of the
 dispute under the laws of India; and second,
 the award is in conflict with the public policy
 of India. 83.11.The enforcement court cannot set
 aside a foreign award, even if the conditions
 under Section 48 are made out. The power to
 set aside a foreign award vests only with the
 court at the seat of arbitration, since the
 supervisory or primary jurisdiction is
 exercised by the curial courts at the seat of
 arbitration. The enforcement court may
 "refuse" enforcement of a foreign award, if
 the conditions contained in Section 48 are
 made out. This would be evident from the
 language of the section itself, which provides
 that enforcement of a foreign award may be
 "refused" only if the applicant furnishes proof
 of any of the conditions contained in Section
 48 of the Act. 83.12. The opening words of Section 48
 use permissive, rather than mandatory
 language, that enforcement "may be" refused. The use of the words "may be" indicate that
 even if the party against whom the award is
 passed, proves the existence of one or more
 grounds for refusal of enforcement, the court
 would retain a residual discretion to overrule
 the objections, if it finds that overall justice
 has been done between the parties, and may
 direct the enforcement of the award. This is
 generally done where the ground for refusal
 concerns a minor violation of the procedural
 rules applicable to the arbitration, or if the
 ground for refusal was not raised in the
 arbitration. A court may also take the view
 that the violation is not such as to prevent
 enforcement of the award in international
 relations. 83.13. The grounds for refusing
 enforcement of foreign awards contained in
 Section 48 are exhaustive, which is evident
 from the language of the section, which
 provides that enforcement may be refused
 "only if" the applicant furnishes proof of any
 of the conditions contained in that provision. 83.14. The enforcement court is not to
 correct the errors in the award under Section
 48, or undertake a review on the merits of the
 award, but is conferred with the limited power
 to "refuse" enforcement, if the grounds are
 made out. 83.15. If the Court is satisfied that the
 application under Section 48 is without merit,
 and the foreign award is found to be
 enforceable, then under Section 49, the award
 shall be deemed to be a decree of "that
 Court". The limited purpose of the legal
 fiction is for the purpose of the enforcement of
 the foreign award. The High Court concerned
 would then enforce the award by taking
 recourse to the provisions of Order 21 CPC ." 35. Applying the above principles to the facts of the present case,
 we now have to determine whether the Impugned Order can be said to
 be an order refusing to enforce the Foreign Award under Section 48 of
 the A&C Act. 36. We have already quoted hereinabove the relevant findings of
 the learned Single Judge. To summarise again, the learned Single
 Judge has held that even a declaratory Award can be enforced under
 the A&C Act, so long as it is practically enforceable and the
 declarations are sufficiently explicit as to require a mere application of
 the principles declared to the accepted facts and figures and an
 application of mere arithmetic to arrive at a liability. The learned
 Single Judge, however, did not find the FPA 2016 to be meeting such
 a standard. The learned Single Judge, in fact, invokes Section
 48(2)(b)(ii) of the A&C Act to hold that in judicial exercise of its
 powers, the Foreign Award cannot be enforced. Only to re-emphasise
 the said finding of the learned Single Judge, we again quote the
 relevant finding of the learned Single Judge as under: 37. Therefore, the refusal to enforce the FPA 2016 by the learned
 Single Judge, is under Section 48 of the A&C Act, which is
 appealable under Section 50(1)(b) of the Act. 38. The reliance of Mr.Salve, the learned senior counsel appearing
 for the respondents, on the judgments of the Supreme Court in Hindustan Copper Limited (supra) and/or in BGS SGS Soma JV (supra) cannot be accepted, as therein, the application under Section
 34 of the A&C Act had been rejected not on the grounds set out in
 Section 34 of the A&C Act but on the issue of maintainability of the
 application before the Court where it was made. This is not so in the
 present case. 39. On the other hand, the learned AG, in our view, has rightly
 relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in Chintels India Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 38 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 Limited (supra), wherein the application filed under Section 34 of the
 A&C Act had been dismissed on the ground of delay. The Court held
 that under Section 37(1)(c) of the A&C Act, appeal is provided
 against an order refusing to set aside an arbitral Award under Section
 34 of the Act and not any particular sub-Section thereof, particularly Section 34(2) of the Act. We quote from the judgment as under: referred to in Essar Constructions is
 statutorily inbuilt in Section 37 of the
 Arbitration Act, 1996 itself. For this purpose,
 it is necessary to refer to Sections 37(1)(a) and
 37(2)(a). So far as Section 37(1)(a) is
 concerned, where a party is referred to
 arbitration under Section 8 , no appeal lies.
 This is for the reason that the effect of such
 order is that the parties must go to arbitration,
 it being left to the learned arbitrator to decide
 preliminary points under Section 16 of the Act,
 which then become the subject-matter of
 appeal under Section 37(2)(a) or the subject-
 matter of grounds to set aside under Section
 34 an arbitral award ultimately made,
 depending upon whether the preliminary
 points are accepted or rejected by the
 arbitrator. It is also important to note that an
 order refusing to refer parties to arbitration
 under Section 8 may be made on a prima facie
 finding that no valid arbitration agreement
 exists, or on the ground that the original
 arbitration agreement, or a duly certified copy
 thereof is not annexed to the application under Section 8 . In either case i.e. whether the
 preliminary ground for moving the court under Section 8 is not made out either by not Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 40 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 annexing the original arbitration agreement,
 or a duly certified copy, or on merits -- the
 court finding that prima facie no valid
 agreement exists -- an appeal lies under
 Section 37(1)(a). 24. Likewise, under Section 37(2)(a), where a
 preliminary ground of the arbitrator not
 having the jurisdiction to continue with the
 proceedings is made out, an appeal lies under
 the said provision, as such determination is
 final in nature as it brings the arbitral
 proceedings to an end. However, if the
 converse is held by the learned arbitrator, then
 as the proceedings before the arbitrator are
 then to carry on, and the aforesaid decision on
 the preliminary ground is amenable to
 challenge under Section 34 after the award is
 made, no appeal is provided. This is made
 clear by Sections 16(5) and (6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which read as follows: section (3) and, where the Arbitral Tribunal
 takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue
 with the arbitral proceedings and make an
 arbitral award. (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral
 award may make an application for setting
 aside such an arbitral award in accordance
 with Section 34." 25. Given the fact that the "effect doctrine" is
 part and parcel of the statutory provision for
 appeal under Section 37, and the express
 language of Section 37(1)(c), it is difficult to
 accede to the argument of Shri Rohatgi." 40. The learned senior counsel for the respondents has placed
 reliance on the grounds urged by the appellant in support of the
 present appeal as also in its rejoinder to submit that it is the own case
 of the appellant that the Impugned Order cannot be said to be based on
 any of the grounds under Section 48 of the A&C Act. In our view,
 though it is the case of the appellant that the Impugned Order is liable
 to be set aside as it travels beyond the ambit and scope of Section 48
 of the A&C Act and the grounds on which the enforcement of a
 Foreign Award can be refused thereunder, this would be an issue to be
 determined on merits of the appeal. These grounds cannot be urged to
 contend that the appeal itself will not be maintainable. To hold
 otherwise would mean that the appellant must, in fact, concede that
 the grounds on which the enforcement has been refused by the Court
 fall within the ambit and scope of Section 48 of the A&C Act and, in
 such event, there cannot be any meaning of the appeal at all and the
 challenge to an order refusing to enforce the Foreign Award will get
 highly restricted. The same cannot be the intent of the legislature. 41. It is the cardinal principle of statutory interpretation that the
 words of the legislature must be constructed in their natural meaning,
 without adding or subtracting therefrom. Applying the above test, the
 words of Section 50(1)(b) of the A&C Act provide for an appeal
 against the order of a court refusing to enforce a Foreign Award under
 Section 48 of the A&C Act, which is the case in hand. Therefore, the
 present appeal is maintainable. 42. Keeping in view the above, we do not find any merit in the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 42 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43 preliminary objection of the respondents to the maintainability of the
 present appeal. The objection is, accordingly, rejected. 43. As the appeal is now to be heard on merits, subject to orders of
 Hon‟ble the Chief Justice, list the same before the Roster Bench on
 17th February, 2026. NAVIN CHAWLA, J

 MADHU JAIN, J
 FEBRUARY 2, 2026/Arya/ns/vs/ik Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed EFA(OS) (COMM) 19/2023 Page 43 of 43 By:REYMON VASHIST Signing Date:02.02.2026 17:58:43