VIPIN SANGHI, J. 1. The present is a reference received from the Learned Additional
District & Sessions Judge- II, North- West District, Rohini Courts, Delhi, CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 1 of 60 Dr. Kamini Lau under Section 395 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1973 ( Cr.P.C . for short). The questions of law framed by the Ld. ASJ for
determination of this Court, read as follows: 2. The aforesaid questions have been framed by the referring Court in
the background that the accused/ respondent-Khimji Bhai Jadeja (hereinafter CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 2 of 60 referred to as "accused") was allegedly one of the promoters of an
investment scheme floated in and around Delhi. It is alleged that around
1,852 different victims were allured; induced and; cheated to invest different
amounts of money, at different points of time, and at different places under
the scheme, on the pretext that their money would be tripled within three
days. The accused allegedly constituted a group, namely, "Bajrang Group" 3. During the hearing of regular bail application of the accused, the ld.
ASJ was, prima facie, of the view that the aforesaid acts constituted separate
and distinct offences, thereby necessitating the registration of separate FIR‟s.
In her order dated 22.02.2014, she relied upon the decision in Narinderjit
Singh Sahni & Anr. Vs. Union of India & Ors. , (2002) 2 SCC 210 : AIR
2001 SC 3810 rendered by a 3-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court, wherein
it was observed that each deposit agreement between a victim and accused
shall have to be treated as a separate transaction. Reference has also been
made by the learned ASJ to the decision of another three-Judge Bench in State of Punjab & Anr. V. Rajesh Syal , AIR 2002 SC 3687, which
reaffirms the view in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra). 4. She has also referred to Mohd. Shakeel vs. State, Crl. MC No.
3374/2008 decided by this Court on 17.12.2008 and Anil Kumar Jain vs.
State (NCT) of Delhi, W.P.(CRL) No.1486/2010 decided by this Court on
10.02.2011. She has referred to the following decisions of other High
Courts as well on the issue: U.T. Chandigarh, 2003 (3) Cri CC 550; iii) Decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in K. Manoj Reddy
 v. Commissioner of Police , 2008 Cr LJ 768. 5. She was also of the, prima facie, view that the registration of a single
FIR and filing of a single charge sheet appeared to be contrary to the
statutory provisions and scheme contained in Section 218, 219, 220, 221 and
222 Cr.P.C., and appeared to be illogical and opposed to the concept of
proportionality of punishment enshrined in the Cr.P.C. 6. In this regard, she sought a response from the EOW, Delhi Police. The
DCP Economic Offences Wing, Delhi submitted that only a single FIR is
required to be registered in the present case, because all investors/ depositors
were allegedly cheated in pursuance of a single conspiracy, constituting a
single transaction and as such, the commission of multiple acts did not
require the registration of separate FIR‟s for each victim. They placed
reliance on the judgments in the cases of S. Swamirathnam Vs. State of CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 4 of 60 Madras. , AIR 1957 SC 340; T. T. Antony vs. State of Kerela , (2001) 6 SCC
181; Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah vs. CBI &Anr. , (2013) 6 SCC 348, and
State vs. Ramesh Chand Kapoor, Crl. MC No. 1369/ 2010 decided by this
Court on 30.08.2012. 7. The Director of Prosecution was also heard on the issue. He
disagreed with the stand taken by the DCP (EOW) and, rather, placed
reliance on the provisions of the Cr.P.C . and also on the law as declared by
the Supreme Court in Narinderjit Singh Sahni and Anr. , (Supra) and the
several other discussions taken note of by the Ld. ASJ in the referring order. 8. Since Ld. Single judges of this court appear to have taken
contradictory views in Mohd. Shakeel (supra) and Anil Kumar Jain (supra),
on the one hand, and Ramesh Chand Kapoor (supra) on the other hand, the
Ld. ASJ has made this reference to invite an authoritative pronouncement by
a larger bench. 9. Vide order dated 12.02.2015, Mr. Hariharan, Sr. Advocate was
appointed Amicus Curiae to assist the Court in rendering our opinion. Court
notice was issued to the accused/ respondent, who has appeared through
counsel. The respondent has filed his short note of arguments on record.
Accordingly, we heard the ld. Amicus Curiae as well as the learned senior
counsel for the Delhi Police, Mr. Sanjay Jain on these issues. Orders were
reserved on 10.08.2018. However, the same could not be pronounced earlier
and, therefore, we listed the matter for recapitulation of arguments on
05.07.2019. We have heard the submissions of Mr. Sanjay Jain, Sr.
Advocate and Mr. Hariharan, Sr.Advocate, the learned Amicus, and we
proceed to answer the reference. No oral submission was advanced on CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 5 of 60 behalf of the respondent. However, his stand is the same as that of the State/
Delhi Police. 10. Before proceeding further, we consider it appropriate to take note of
the relevant statutory provisions contained in the Cr.P.C . These are Sections
218 to 220 , which fall under Chapter XVII titled "The Charge" and sub-
chapter „B‟, which deals with "Joinder of Charges". They read as follows: 219. Three offences of same kind within year may be charged
 together.-(1) When a person is accused of more offences than
 one of the same kind committed within the space of twelve
 months from the first to the last of such offences, whether in
 respect of the same person or not, he may be charged with, and
 tried at one trial for, any number of them not exceeding three.
 (2) Offences are of the same kind when they are punishable
 with the same amount of punishment under the same section of
 the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860 ) or of any special or local
 law: 220. Trial for more than one offence.-(1) If, in one series of
 acts so connected together as to form the same transaction,
 more offences than one are committed by the same person, he
 may be charged with, and tried at one trial for, every such
 offence. (2) When a person charged with one or more offences of
 criminal breach of trust or dishonest misappropriation of
 property as provided in sub- section (2) of section 212 or in
 sub- section (1) of section 219 , is accused of committing, for the
 purpose of facilitating or concealing the commission of that
 offence or those offences, one or more offences of falsification
 of accounts, he may be charged with, and tried at one trial for,
 every such offence. (3) If the acts alleged constitute an offence falling within two or
 more separate definitions of any law in force for the time being
 by which offences are defined or punished, the person accused
 of them may be charged with, and tried at one trial for, each of
 such offences. (4) If several acts, of which one or more than one would by
 itself or themselves constitute an offence, constitute when
 combined a different offence, the person accused of them may
 be charged with, and tried at one trial for the offence
 constituted by such acts when combined, and for any offence
 constituted by any one, or more, or such acts. (5) Nothing contained in this section shall affect section 71 of
 the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860 ). 11. On a reading of Section 218 of the Cr.P.C., the legislative mandate
that emerges is that for every distinct offence of which any person is
accused, there shall be a separate charge, and every such charge shall be
tried separately. This Section embodies the fundamental principle of
Criminal Law that the accused person must have notice of the charge which
he has to meet. The proviso to Sub-Section (1) seeks to carve out an CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 7 of 60 exception to this general rule. This proviso states that the accused may make
an application to the Magistrate that the Magistrate may try all or any
number of charges framed against the person together, provided the
Magistrate is of the opinion that such person is not likely to be prejudiced
thereby. Thus, this exceptional course of action may be adopted only upon
the accused making an application therefor, and upon the Magistrate
forming the opinion that trial of all or some of the charges together would
not prejudice the accused. Sub-Section (2) makes it clear that sub-Section
(1) shall not affect the operation of Sections 219, 220, 221 & 223, meaning
thereby, that the said sections would apply irrespective of: (a) the mandate
of sub-Section (1) - that for every distinct offence, of which any person is
accused, there shall be a separate charge and every such charge shall be tried
separately, and; (b) the order that the Magistrate may pass under proviso to
sub-Section (1) of Section 218 of the Cr.P.C. 12. Sections 219 and 220 deal with different aspects of the matter. For
attracting Section 219 , the necessary circumstance is that the same person is
accused of more offences than one; the offences of which the person is
accused are of the same kind; they are committed in a space of 12 months
from the first and the last of such offences, and; the said offences may, or
may not, be in respect of the same person. The offences need not have any
causal connection between them for Section 219 to be invoked. They may
be completely independent; may have taken place at different points of time
within the space of one year, and; may involve different and unrelated
victims. However, the accused is the same person and the offences are of
the same kind - as defined in Sub-Section (2). Sub-Section (2) explains that CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 8 of 60 offences are of the same kind when they are punishable with the same
amount of punishment under the same Section of the IPC , or of any special
or local law. In such a situation, the person may be charged with and tried at
one trial for any number of them, not exceeding three. For the present, we
are not concerned with the proviso to sub-Section (2) of Section 219 and,
therefore, we need not dwell upon the same. 13. Section 220 , on the other hand, deals with a situation where one series
of acts is connected together to form the same transaction, and in that series
of acts which are connected together, more offences than one are committed
by the same person. In that situation, he may be charged with and tried at
one trial for every such offence. Sub-Section (2) of Section 220 makes it
clear that if a person charged with one or more offences of criminal breach
of trust, or dishonest misappropriation of property is also accused of
committing - for the purpose of facilitating or concealing the commission of
the offences aforesaid, the offence of falsification of accounts, he may be
charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence. Thus, at the same
trial, apart from the offence of criminal breach of trust or dishonest
misappropriation of property, he may be tried for the offence of falsification
of accounts for the purpose of facilitating or concealing the commission of
the primary offence of criminal breach of trust, or dishonest
misappropriation of property. 14. Question "a" of the reference reads as follows: 15. This question relates to the applicability of Section 220 of the Cr.P.C.
to a case of inducement, allurement and cheating of a large number of
investors/ depositors in a criminal conspiracy. The issue posed is whether
the offence of cheating - by acceptance of deposits made by individual
investors - and there would be multiple such investors, would all constitute
the "same transaction" - because the conspiracy or design may be the same
or, whether, the act of cheating - by acceptance of deposits made by
different investors, would constitute separate transactions - because each act
of inducement, allurement and consequential cheating would be unique.
The question is whether such transactions could be amalgamated and
clubbed together into a single FIR, by showing one investor as the
complainant, and the others as the witnesses. 16. Mr. Hariharan, ld. Amicus Curiae, has submitted that each case of
inducement, allurement and cheating of an investor constitutes a separate
transaction, mandating registration of a separate FIR for each such
transaction. On the aspect as to what forms the "same transaction", or a
"separate transaction", he places reliance on elaborate analysis of the law
contained in Shapurji Sorabji v. Emperor , AIR 1936 Bom 154. He further
submits that the Supreme Court decision in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra)
has conclusively settled the legal position, that each transaction of an
individual investor, which has been brought about by the allurement of the
financial companies, must be treated as a separate transactions, for the
reason that the investors/ depositors are different; the amount of deposit is CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 10 of 60 different, and; the period when which the deposit was effected is also
different. He has also placed reliance upon Rajesh Syal (supra), Mohd.
Shakeel (supra), K Manoj Reddy (supra) and Lalu Prasad Yadav (supra) on
the same issue. He submits that amalgamation and clubbing of all
transactions into one would vitiate the trial. The same would be contrary to Section 218 of Cr.P.C., and to the decision in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra). Thus, he submits that in respect of every such case of inducement
and cheating of different investors, the law mandates the registration of
separate FIR‟s. 17. On the other hand, Mr. Sanjay Jain, ld. Senior Counsel appearing for
Delhi Police submits that every case of cheating and inducement of an
investor constitutes the "same transaction", when such transactions are a
sub-specie of a single specie of transaction - i.e. of a single conspiracy. In
this regard, he places reliance upon Ganesh Prasad vs. Emperor , AIR 1931
PC 52; State of A.P. v. Cheemalapati Ganeswara Rao , AIR 1963 SC 1850;
and Mohd. Husain Umar Kochra v. K.S. Dalipsinghji and Another , (1969)
3 SCC 429. He further submits that every act of cheating a large number of
investors is covered under the umbrella of a single transaction, arising out of
a single conspiracy. He places strong reliance on S. Swamirathnam (supra)
in support of this submission. Mr. Sanjay Jain submits that all such
transactions can be amalgamated and clubbed into a single FIR by showing
one investor as the complainant, and others as witnesses. 18. In order to answer question (a) of the present reference, it is vital to
first understand the meaning of the expression "same transaction". What is
it that constitutes "same transaction", and what is it that does not constitute CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 11 of 60 "same transaction" i.e. it constitutes "separate transactions". Pertinently,
these expressions have not been defined in the Cr.P.C. However, the
expression "same transaction" finds mention in Sections 220 and 223 of the
Cr.P.C. 19. The meaning of the expression "same transaction" is no longer res-
integra. 20. We may first refer to the decision of the Division Bench of the
Bombay High Court in Shapurji Sorabji (supra), wherein the issue arose
whether the acts of the accused formed part of the "same transaction" - as
contended by the prosecution, to justify the framing of a common charge and
conduct of one trial (by resort to Section 235 of the Code of 1898, which is
similar to Section 220 of the Cr.P.C.) or, "separate transaction" - as
contended by the accused, who alleged misjoinder of four different charges
extending over a period of nearly two years, thereby contravening Section
233 of the Code of 1898 (similar to Section 218 of the Cr.P.C.). In this case,
the accused had allegedly got multiple spurious ticket books printed. The
accused allegedly sold these spurious tickets - got printed on several
occasions, and misappropriated the sale proceeds, thereby allegedly
committing offences of criminal breach of trust, forgery, use of forged
tickets as genuine knowingly, and of cheating. While determining whether
the said transactions constituted "same transaction‖ or "separate
transaction", the Division Bench observed: 8. That was a case in which it was alleged that a company was
 formed with the object of defrauding the public in a particular
 manner and the promoters of the company were charged with
 several distinct acts of embezzlement committed in the course of
 several years. These acts were all committed in prosecution of
 the general object for which the company was founded. But it
 was held nevertheless that they were not parts of the same
 transaction and could not be joined in the same charge. The
 ratio decidendi of the judgments in this case appears to me to
 apply very closely to the facts of the present case. 9. It seems, therefore, that the main test must really be
 continuity of action. We have to consider what that expression
 means. It cannot mean, I think, merely doing the same thing
 or similar things continuously or repeatedly, for a recurring
 series of similar transactions is not, according to the ordinary
 use of language, the same transaction. Continuity of action in
 the context must, in my opinion, mean this: the following up
 of some initial act through all its consequences and incidents
 until the series of acts or group of connected acts comes to an
 end, either by attainment of the object or by being put an end
 to or abandoned. If any of those things happens and the
 whole process is begun over again, it is not the same
 transaction but a new one, in spite of the fact that the same
 general purpose may continue. So that, I think, if we apply the
 recognised tests, the procuring of 4,100 books of tickets to be
 printed at intervals from May 1933 to February 1935 and the
 disposing of them and misappropriating the proceeds is not one
 transaction but a series of similar transactions. It might well be
 different if the prosecution had alleged a conspiracy between
 the accused to print 4,100 books from the beginning. But there
 is no such charge, and as far as I can see, that is not really the
 prosecution case. At any rate it is perfectly consistent with, the
 prosecution case as presented in the evidence that the accused
 ordered a fresh supply of ticket books when the last was
 exhausted without any definite idea as to the extent of their
 operations, other than the obvious and natural limitation that
 they would not be likely to continue once they were found out. 10. Now every case depends on its own facts and none of the
 authorities cited to us has any close bearing on the present
 case so far as the facts are concerned. The case of Choragudi
 Venkatadri v. Emperor [(1910) 33 Mad. 502.] is perhaps the
 nearest. If I may suggest an analogy it would be this. Suppose
 a man were to forge a railway season ticket and use it daily, it
 may be, for a period of three months without being detected.
 Suppose that having succeeded in doing that he were then to
 forge a new season ticket for the following quarter and were
 to continue to do that with impunity say for a period of two
 years. On the arguments which have been addressed to us on
 behalf of the Crown in this case it would be permissible to
 prosecute and charge such a man at one trial for forging eight
 season tickets and cheating the railway administration of the
 value of those tickets. But I think that would be obviously
 impossible. The forging of each particular ticket together with
 its consequences would be a single transaction. In the present
 case the line of demarcation between the different
 transactions is not so clearly cut, but the principle seems to
 me to be the same.‖(emphasis supplied) 22. Accordingly, for a series of acts to be regarded as forming the "same
transaction", they must be connected together in some way, and there should
be continuity of action. Though: (i) proximity of time; (ii) unity of place;
and, (iii) unity or community of purpose or design have been taken into
account to determine the issue viz. whether the series of acts constitute the
"same transaction", or not, neither of them is an essential ingredient, and the
presence or absence of one or more of them, would not be determinative of
the issue, which has to be decided by adoption of a common sense approach
in the facts of a given case. In Shapurji Sorabji (supra), the expression
"continuity of action" was explained by the Division Bench as "the following
up of some initial act through all its consequences and incidents until the
series of acts or group of connected acts comes to an end, either by CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 17 of 60 attainment of the object or by being put an end to or abandoned. If any of
those things happens and the whole process is begun over again, it is not the
same transaction but a new one, in spite of the fact that the same general
purpose may continue." 23. In Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), the Supreme Court was dealing
with a batch of writ petitions preferred under Article 32 of the Constitution
of India, alleging infraction of Article 21 and to seek bail for the accused.
The accused Narinderjit Singh Sahni (Petitioner in WP (Crl.) Nos.245-
246/2000) was the Managing Director of M/s Okara Group of Companies.
On 25.3.1998, a FIR bearing No. 149/98 was registered at P.S. Prasad Nagar
under sections 420 / 406 / 409 / 120B IPC against the company and its directors
for accepting deposits from large number of people in different schemes and
for failure to make repayment inspite of requests. Charge-sheet was
subsequently field by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police in the Court of
Metropolitan Magistrate, Tis Hazari. Subsequently, on 28.4.98 a FIR being
No. 264/98 was registered at P.S. Prasad Nagar on the complaint of one Om
Parkash Mishra against the petitioner alleging that the latter had defrauded
and cheated him and other members of his family in accepting money in
various schemes of the company and when the complaint asked for the
money, the post-dated cheques issued by the company were dishonored,
since the accounts were closed. It is in regard to the FIR 264/98 that the
petitioner No.1 was arrested by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police on
26.6.1998. In all, about 250 FIRs were registered throughout the country
against the accused. (Vide paragraph 14 of the judgment in Narinderjit
Singh Sahni (supra)) CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 18 of 60 24. It was, inter alia, argued on behalf of the accused that the offence of
conspiracy being in the nature of continuing offence, its inclusion would be
sufficient to establish the connection of one offence with the other for the
purpose of converting all the offences into a single offence, or in the
alternative, into the kind of offence which could only have been committed
in the course of the "same transaction" within the meaning of Section 220 of
the Code. 25. It was argued that all the cases initiated against the petitioner were
basically under section 420 read with section 120B IPC, and as such the
question was whether there are numerous cases of cheating, or there is only
one offence and one case. It was contended that many persons may have
been induced, but since the act of deception was one i.e. the issuance of the
advertisement by the petitioner and his group of companies - even if several
persons stood cheated, it was a single offence. 26. On behalf of the State, it was contended that each act of cheating
constitutes a separate offence, and the attempt on behalf of the accused to
say that only one advertisement had resulted into multitude of consequential
deprivation of property to the thousands of investors was an endeavor to
mislead the court. 27. The bench of 3 Learned Judges of the Supreme Court held: 28. In Rajesh Syal (supra), the accused, who was a Director of M/s.
Golden Forests (India) Ltd, allegedly cheated a large number of investors.
Several FIRs were registered against the accused under section 406 , 420 , 468 , 471 and 120B IPC and section 7(2) of the Punjab Reforms Act, 1972.
The High Court transferred the cases filed in different courts across the State
of Punjab to one Court of the Special Judicial Magistrate. That decision of
the High court was assailed before the Supreme Court. While defending the
decision of the High Court, the accused placed reliance on section 218 of the CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 20 of 60 Cr.P.C . Reliance was also placed on section 220 of the Cr.P.C., evidently, to
claim that the series of acts are so connected together, as to form the "same
transaction" and where more than one offence is committed, there could be
a joint trial. The Supreme Court rejected the aforesaid submissions on
behalf of the respondent/ accused. The Supreme Court, inter alia, observed: 29. Thus, in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra) and in Rajesh Syal (supra),
a similar submission - as advanced by Mr. Jain, that the series of acts were
so connected together as to form the "same transaction", and that even
where more than one offence is committed, there could be a joint trial, was
rejected by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, in clear terms, stated
that each offence is a distinct one, and cannot be regarded as constituting a
single series of acts/transaction. 30. We may now refer to the decisions of learned Single Judges of this
Court and other High Courts, placed before us. In Mohd. Shakeel (supra),
the two petitioners were accused of being involved in serial blasts which
rocked the capital city on 13.09.2008 at five prime commercial locations.
The petitioners had assailed the order passed by the learned CMM granting
police remand of the accused in case FIR No. 418/2008. The accused had CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 21 of 60 earlier been sent to police remand in two FIR Nos.130/2008 and 166/2008,
which were also registered in relation to the said serial blasts. One of the
submissions advanced on behalf of the petitioners/ accused was that since
there was commonality of purpose and design, and since the acts of the
accused are traced to the same conspiracy and there is continuity of action,
the accused were entitled to be treated as having committed offences arising
out of the same transaction, and not different transactions. It was argued that
the initial conspiracy unifies the transaction and, therefore, the plurality of
offence at various places, or at different intervals, would amount to "same
transaction". 31. A learned Single Judge of this Court, after noticing several decisions
including the decision in Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), held that the
investigation being at the stage of infancy, it was difficult to accept the
proposition of counsel for the petitioner that separate occurrences of serial
blasts form part of the same transaction. Registration of independent FIRs,
occurrence of various bomb blasts within jurisdictions of different police
stations, mode and manner of planting bomb, the victims being different,
witnesses also being different, and the investigation to be conducted at sites
also being different - would, prima facie, lead to the conclusion that each
and every incident of blast is an independent transaction, and not the same
transaction. 32. In Lalu Prasad @ Lalu Prasad Yadav (supra), the allegation against
the accused was that money was fraudulently withdrawn from the Treasuries
of the State of Bihar on the basis of forged and fabricated allotment letters
for making payment to non- existent suppliers of feed, fodder, medicines and CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 22 of 60 other equipments. In pursuance of the criminal conspiracy, on the strength
of fake allotment letters, payments to the tune of hundreds of crore were
fraudulently made to the accused supplier, who never supplied the materials.
The accused moved the Jharkand High Court to seek amalgamation of
several distinct cases and for orders that the trial be proceeded as one case.
The CBI opposed the petitions for amalgamation claiming that the cases
were distinct from each other, involving separate transactions. On behalf of
the petitioners, it was contended that the prosecution had alleged a common
and single conspiracy and the modus operandi of the accused persons for
withdrawal of huge amounts from the government treasury was, allegedly,
the same i.e. by submitting fake allotment letters. 33. This plea of the petitioners/ accused was rejected by the Court. After
noticing section 223 of the Code, the learned Single Judge, inter alia,
observed: 34. The learned Single Judge noticed a decision of the Supreme Court in Cheemalapati Ganeswara Rao (supra), as also the circumstance that huge CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 23 of 60 amounts of withdrawal had been made from different treasuries, and the
period of withdrawal was also different spanning between 1990-1996.
Though the modus operandi of the accused might have been the same for
withdrawing amounts from the government treasuries by submitting fake
allotment letters, but the withdrawals were made apparently at different
places, and also at different points of time. Merely because the accused are
alleged to have committed offence with the same motive that, by itself,
would not establish that they had done so in pursuance of a single
conspiracy. The learned Single Judge also held that there was no continuity
of action in the cases at hand, and there was no proximity of time, place,
money etc. Inter alia, for the aforesaid reasons, the petitions were rejected
by the learned Single Judge. The Court held: 35. In K. Manoj Reddy (supra) the petitioner, having received certain
initial deposit and installments from different investors, breached the
contract and refused to register plots in the name of those investors. Separate
FIR‟s were registered against the accused persons for cheating, which was
under challenge before the learned single judge of the Andhra Pradesh High
Court. The single judge held: 36. We may now deal with the decisions relied upon by Mr. jain on behalf
of the State/ Delhi Police. 37. S. Swamirathnam (supra) is a decision of 3 learned Judges of the
Supreme Court. This judgment was authored by Syed Jafer Imam, J. In
paragraph 7 of this decision, the Supreme Court observed as follows: 38. Thus, on the reading of S. Swamirathnam (supra), no doubt, the
Supreme Court held that where there was a single conspiracy, spread over
several years with the object to cheat members of the public, the fact that in
the course of implementation of the conspiracy several incidents of cheating CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 26 of 60 took place in pursuance thereof, the several acts of cheating constituted part
of the same transaction. 39. However, as pointed out by Mr. Hariharan, the learned Amicus
Curiae, firstly, this decision proceeds on the premise that in Shapurji
Sorabji (supra), no charge of conspiracy had been framed. This premise
does not appear to be correct on a complete reading of Shapurji Sorabji (supra) and in particular on reading of the extracts of the decision quoted
hereinabove. Pertinently, the Supreme Court did not observe that the
decision in Shapurji Sorabji (supra), was incorrect. The ratio of that
decision was not disagreed with. Since the Supreme Court proceeded on the
basis that Shapurji Sorabji (supra) was a case which did not involve a
charge of conspiracy, the decision of the Supreme Court in S.
Swamirathnam (supra) has to be read and understood in the context of the
said fact. 40. Secondly, and even more importantly, in another 3-Judge Bench
decision of the Supreme Court in Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody Vs. State of
Bombay, 1964 Mah LJ 1 : 1961 SCC OnLine SC 1, the Supreme Court has
made observations which clearly have the effect of diluting, if not
completely nullifying, the precedential value of the decision in S.
Swamirathnam (supra). It is interesting to note that S. Swamirathnam (supra) was authored by Syed Jafer Imam, J. - while sitting as a puisne
judge. However, in Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody (supra), Syed Jafer Imam, J.
was heading the 3-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court, and the said decision
has been authored by K. Subbarao, J., for the Court. In Natwarlal Sakarlal CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 27 of 60 Mody (supra), the Supreme Court while dealing with S. Swamirathnam (supra) observed as follows: When a member of the public handed over his money, at a
 certain stage, one of the conspirators pretending to be a Police
 Officer would arrest the man who had the box containing their CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 28 of 60 money and take him away with the box. The victim was thus
 deprived of his money without even having a single counterfeit
 currency note in his possession in exchange of the genuine
 money paid by him. It was found on evidence that all the
 appellants took part in the various acts committed pursuant to
 that conspiracy. In such a situation this Court held that there
 was only one conspiracy. The only principle this Court laid
 down is that an accused need not be a member of a conspiracy
 from its inception but he may join it at a later stage, and that
 every one of the conspirators need not take part in every
 incident. If there is one conspiracy, the said circumstances
 cannot obviously make any difference in the application of s.
 239(d) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this context a
 decision of an English Court is rather instructive and that is in
 R. v. Dawson,(1960) 1 All ER 558. In that ease, an indictment
 on which two appellants were charged with other accused
 included fifteen counts. Fourteen of these charged various
 fraudulent offences on dates in and between 1955 and 1957.
 The first count charged conspiracy to defraud between
 November 1, 1954 and December 31, 1957. The transactions
 which were the subject of the other fourteen charges were
 within the purview of the conspiracy charge. Both the
 appellants were convicted on the conspiracy charge and one of
 the appellants was convicted also on other counts. On appeal,
 Finnemore, J., made the following weighty observations (p. 563): Separate trial is the rule and joint trial is an exception. While
 s. 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows a joint trial
 of persons and offences within defined limits, it is within the
 discretion of the Court to permit such a joint trial or not,
 having regard to the circumstances of each case. It would
 certainly be an irregular exercise of discretion if a Court
 allows an innumerable number of offences spread over a long
 period of time and committed by a, large number of persons
 under the protecting wing of all-embracing conspiracy, if CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 30 of 60 each or some of the offences can legitimately and properly
 form the subject-matter of a separate trial; such a joint trial
 would undoubtedly prolong the trial and would be a cause of
 unnecessary waste of judicial time. It would complicate matters
 which might otherwise be simple; it would confuse accused and
 cause prejudice to them, for more often than not accused who
 have taken part in one of the minor offences might have not
 only to undergo the long strain of protracted trial, but there
 might also be the likelihood of the impact of the evidence
 adduced in respect of other accused on the evidence adduced
 against him working to his detriment. Nor can it be said that
 such an omnibus charge or charges would always be in favour
 of the prosecution for the confusion introduced in the charges
 and consequently in the evidence may ultimately benefit some of
 the accused, as a clear case against one or other of the accused
 may be complicated or confused by the attempt to put it in a
 proper place in a larger setting. A Court should not be
 overzealous to provide a cover of conspiracy for a number of
 offences unless it is clearly satisfied on the material placed
 before it that there is evidence to prove prima facie that the
 persons who committed separate offences were parties to the
 conspiracy and they committed the separate acts attributed to
 them pursuant to the object of the said conspiracy." (emphasis supplied) 41. From the above extract, it would be seen that, firstly, the Supreme
Court observed that S. Swamirathnam (supra) was decided "in the peculiar
circumstances of that case". Thus, this itself denudes S. Swamirathnam (supra) of its precedential value, since that decision was subsequently
understood by the Supreme Court as a decision rendered in the peculiar
circumstances of that case. Moreover, the Supreme Court explained the
ratio of the decision in S. Swamirathnam (supra) by observing that: 42. Thus, the observations made by the Supreme Court in S.
Swamirathnam (supra) to the effect that where there is a single and
common conspiracy, and in pursuance of the said conspiracy several acts -
which constitute separate offences are undertaken, then they constitute the
"same transaction" and are liable to be charged and tried at a single trial, has
not been considered as the ratio of the said decision . The observation made
by the Supreme Court in paragraph 14 of Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody (supra)
renders the decision in S. Swamirathnam (supra) of no avail to Mr. Jain,
since it cannot be regarded as a precedent on the issue under our
consideration. Pertinently, the Supreme Court observed in Natwarlal
Sakarlal Mody (supra) that it would tantamount to irregular exercise of
discretion, if the Court were to allow an innumerable number of offences,
spread over a long period of time and committed by a large number of
persons, under the protective wing of all embracing conspiracy, to be put to
joint trial, if different offences are committed, or some of the offences can
legitimately and properly form a subject matter of separate trial. It further
observed that a Court should not be overzealous to provide a cover of
conspiracy for a number of offences, unless it is clearly satisfied on the
material placed before it that there is evidence to prove prima facie that the
persons who committed separate offences were parties to the conspiracy and
they committed the separate acts attributed to them pursuant to the object of
the conspiracy. 43. Mr. Jain has also placed reliance on Cheemalapati Ganeswara Rao (supra). In this decision, the Supreme Court was concerned with Section
239(d) of the Code of 1898 which is para materia to Section 223(d) of the
Cr.P.C. Both these provisions read "The following persons may be charged
and tried together, namely; ... ... ... persons accused of different offences
committed in the course of the same transaction;". The Supreme Court in
this decision, inter alia, observed: occurring in clauses (a), (c) and (d) of s. 239 as well as that
 occurring in s. 235(1) ought to be given the same meaning
 according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
 Looking at the matter in that way, it is pointless to inquire
 further whether the provisions of s. 239 are subject to those of
 s. 236(1). The provisions of sub-section (2) and (3) of s. 235 are
 enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding
 effect. But it would be open to the court to resort to those
 provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons
 permissible under s. 239.‖ (emphasis supplied)" 44. Mr. Jain has emphasized the observation made in this decision that if
several acts committed by a person show unity of purpose or design, that
would be a strong circumstance to indicate that those acts form part of the
same transaction. This observation, firstly, cannot be read as a Statute.
Secondly, this observation cannot be understood to mean that in every case
where there is unity of purpose or design, the acts would constitute the
"same transaction" in every such case. Pertinently, in the same extract, the
Supreme Court observed that series of acts which constitute the "same
transaction", "must of necessity be connected with one another and if some
of them stands out independently, they would not form part of the same
transaction but would constitute a different transaction or transactions". In
the fact situation that we are concerned with, the transaction entered into by
the accused with each of the complainants/ victims stand out independently,
and it cannot be said that the specific transaction entered into with one of the
complainants/ victims is necessarily connected with all other similar CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 34 of 60 transactions. Thus, the decision in Cheemalapati Ganeswara Rao (supra)
supports the submission of the learned Amicus Curiae rather than supporting
the submission of Mr. Jain. 45. Mr. Jain has also placed reliance on State of Jharkhand Through
S.P., Central Bureau of Investigation Vs. Lalu Prasad Yadav Alias Lalu
Prasad, (2017) 8 SCC 1. This is a decision of two learned Judges the
Supreme Court. He specifically relies upon paragraphs 43 & 44 of this
decision, which read as follows: 46. On a bare reading of the aforesaid extracts, we fail to appreciate as to
how the same advances the submission of Mr. Jain. The argument advanced
by the respondent/ accused before the Supreme Court in the aforesaid CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 37 of 60 decision was that the holding of separate trials in respect of separate charges
framed relating to cheating - which stem out of the same conspiracy, would
tantamount to double jeopardy. This submission of the accused was rejected
by the Supreme Court. After referring to several decisions rendered by it
earlier, it held that the substantive offence was that of defalcation.
Conspiracy was an allied offence to the said substantive offence. In
paragraph 38 of its decision, the Supreme Court observed: 47. In paragraph 42 of this decision, the Supreme Court observed: 48. Pertinently, even in this decision, S. Swamirathnam (supra) was
relied upon on behalf of the respondent accused. The Supreme Court
rejected the said reliance by observing that in S. Swamirathnam (supra)

 ―44. ... ... ... this Court did not consider various provisions and
 question of double jeopardy did not arise for consideration. It
 was held in the facts that there was no prejudice to the accused
 persons. There was no misjoinder of the charges. On facts the case has no application and cannot be said to be an authority
 on Article 20 of the Constitution and Section 300 CrPC.‖ CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 39 of 60 49. The Supreme Court in paragraph 50 observed as under: 50. A similar submission on behalf of the appellant in Lalu Prasad Vs.
State through CBI (A.H.D.) Ranchi, Jharkhand, (2003) 11 SCC 786, was
rejected by a three judge bench of the Supreme Court in the following
manner: 51. We have already given our reasons as to why, in our view, the
decision in S. Swamirathnam (supra) cannot be considered to be binding
precedent on the issue under consideration. However, even if the same were
to be treated as a binding precedent, clearly, the ratio of that decision goes
contrary to several subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court itself,
including in Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody (supra), Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), Rajesh Syal (supra), Lalu Prasad Vs. State through CBI (A.H.D.) Ranchi, Jharkhand, (supra) and State of Jharkhand (supra). Pertinently,
Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody (supra), Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), Rajesh
Syal (supra) and Lalu Prasad Vs. State through CBI (A.H.D.) Ranchi,
Jharkhand, (supra) are all decisions of three learned Judges, as S.
Swamirathnam (supra). In this situation, as to what should be the approach
of this Court, and which view the Court should follow was considered by a
learned Single Judge of this Court (Late Valmiki J. Mehta, J.) in Simplex
Waterpipes India Limited Vs. Union of India, ILR (2010) II Delhi 699. The learned Judge cited Smt. Gopa Manish Bora Vs. Union of India, ILR
(2009) 4 Del 61, decided by a Division Bench of this Court, wherein the
Division Bench observed as follows: 20. The Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court
 referred to a Full Bench decision of the Punjab
 and Haryana High Court in the case of Indo Swiss
 Time Limited, Dundahera v. Umrao , AIR 1981
 P&H 213, wherein it was observed as under:-- 21. The Allahabad High Court in Ganga
 Saran (supra) agreed with the view taken by the
 Full Bench of Punjab & Haryana High Court
 in Indo Swiss Time Limited (supra) that when
 there is a conflict between two decisions of equal
 Benches, which cannot be reconciled, the courts
 must follow the judgment which appears to them
 to state the law accurately and elaborately. 22. A Division Bench of this court in Virender
 Kumar (a), Bittoo v. State , 59 (1995) DLT 341
 (DB) also considered the question of conflict of
 judgments of different Benches of the Supreme
 Court of coequal strength. The Division Bench
 noted with approval the decision of the Full Bench
 of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Ganga
 Saran (supra) as having been laid down that if
 there is a conflict between two decisions of equal
 Benches of the Supreme Court, which cannot
 possibly be reconciled, the courts must follow the
 judgment which appears to them to state the law
 accurately and elaborately and particularly so
 when the later decision of the Supreme Court did
 not notice the earlier decision.‖‖
 (emphasis supplied) 52. Thus, assuming that there is a subsisting conflict of opinion of the
Supreme Court in S. Swamirathnam (supra) on the one hand, and Natwarlal
Sakarlal Mody (supra), Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), Rajesh Syal (supra), and Lalu Prasad Vs. State through CBI (A.H.D.) Ranchi,
Jharkhand, (supra) on the other hand, it is left to us to decide as to which of
the two sets of decisions state the law accurately and elaborately. Having
given our thoughtful consideration to the matter, we are of the considered
view that the law declared by the Supreme Court in Natwarlal Sakarlal
Mody (supra), Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), Rajesh Syal (supra), and CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 44 of 60 Lalu Prasad Vs. State through CBI (A.H.D.) Ranchi, Jharkhand, (supra)
is a more accurate and elaborate enunciation of the law. This is for the
reason that while deciding S. Swamirathnam (supra), it did not fall for
consideration by the Supreme Court that conspiracy is an allied offence,
whereas the acts committed in pursuance of the conspiracy, which
eventually led to commission of specific offences, are the substantive and
main offences. We also find that in Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody (supra), the
Supreme Court noticed with approval the legal position as prevalent in the
English Courts even prior to the decision in S. Swamirathnam (supra) was
delivered. In Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody (supra), the Supreme Court quoted,
with approval, the decision in R. Vs. Dawson (supra). Even subsequently,
the Supreme Court on several occasions, while noticing S. Swamirathnam (supra), did not invoke the said decision . We are also of the view that the
enunciation of the law contained in Shapurji Sorabji (supra) is most
elaborate, and we find ourselves in agreement to the said view. Thus, we
reject the reliance placed by Mr. Jain on S. Swamirathnam (supra). 53. We find that the decision in Ramesh Chand Kapoor (supra) - decided
by a learned Single Judge of this Court, merely relies upon the decision of
the Supreme Court in S. Swamirathnam (supra). The learned Single Judge
has not examined the issue independently. The decisions in Natwarlal
Sakarlal Mody (supra), Narinderjit Singh Sahni (supra), Rajesh Syal (supra), and the other earlier decisions relied upon by Mr. Hariharan were
neither cited before, nor considered by the learned Single Judge in this
decision. Thus, reliance placed on Ramesh Chand Kapoor (supra) by Mr.
Jain is equally misplaced. 54. Mr. Jain has particularly placed reliance on Mohd. Husain Umar
Kochra (supra). This decision, in our view, is of no avail since the Supreme
Court was not concerned with the aspect of joinder of charges, or the joinder
of accused persons in the same trial. The Supreme Court framed the
questions considered by it in the said decision , which read as follows: examination?‖ 55. Mr. Jain has also placed reliance on paragraph 15 of this decision.
The same reads as follows: 56. The aforesaid extract would show that the Supreme Court merely
explained the meaning of a criminal conspiracy as defined in Section 120A of the IPC. It went on to observe that a general conspiracy must be
distinguished from a number of separate conspiracies having a similar
general purpose. That is not the issue under our consideration and this
proposition has no bearing on the issue being considered by us. Thus, in our
view, this decision is absolutely of no avail in the present context. 57. The reference order notices the decision of the Supreme Court in T. T.
Antony (supra) and Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah (supra). These decisions CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 47 of 60 are distinguishable, since the issue involved in this case was registration of
two FIRs from the same cause of action. In Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah (supra), the Supreme Court referred to its decision in C. Muniappan v. State
of T.N. , (2010) 9 SCC 567, which explains the "consequence test" i.e. if an
offence which forms part of the second FIR arises as a consequence of the
first FIR, then the offences covered by both the FIRs are the same and,
accordingly, it will be impermissible in law to register the second FIR. The
same shall form part of the first FIR itself. In the present context, it cannot
be said that the cheating of the successive complainants/ victims undertaken
under the same conspiracy is a "consequence" of the offence alleged in the
complaint- on the basis of which, the sole FIR was registered. It was open
to the accused not to proceed to commit the subsequent offence(s), even
after committing the offence of hatching a conspiracy to cheat the people
and even after cheating one or more persons. Thus, neither of the aforesaid
decision is of any relevance for our purpose. 58. Mr. Jain has also placed reliance on Ganesh Prasad (supra). In this
decision, the Division Bench of the Patna High Court observed: 59. This decision, in our view, is of no avail to Mr. Jain. All that this
decision observes - on the basis of the earlier decision in Datto Hanmant
Shahapurkar (supra), is that the "same transaction" suggests, not
necessarily, proximity in time so much as continuity of action and purpose.
As noticed above, continuity in action is an important test and when the
same is applied, that we find that the continuity in action ends in respect of
each act of cheating, when that act is complete. There is no continuity in
action in respect of the act of cheating of another complainant/ victim. We
agree with the submission of Mr. Hariharan that the real test to determine
whether multiple offences form the same transaction, or not, is whether there
was continuity in action. Recurring series of similar transactions cannot be
considered as "same transaction". 60. The practice followed by the Delhi Police/ State of registering a single
FIR on the basis of the complaint of one of the complainants/ victims, and of
treating the other complainants/ victims merely as witnesses, even
otherwise, raises very serious issues with regard to deprivation of rights of
such complainants/ victims to pursue their complaints, and to ensure that the CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 49 of 60 culprits are brought to justice. Firstly, the other complainants/ victims
cannot be merely cited as witnesses in respect of the complaint of one of the
victims on the basis of which the FIR is registered. They may not be
witnesses in respect of the transaction forming the basis of the registration of
the case. In a situation where hundreds of persons claim that they have been
cheated by the same accused at different locations and at different points of
time by adoption of the same modus operandi, it is unthinkable and unlikely
that all the complainants/ victims - who are cited as witnesses, would be
witnesses to the single transaction in relation to which FIR is registered.
They may, at the most, be witnesses only to establish the conspiracy - which
is an allied offence, but unless there is a charge framed in respect of the
specific act of cheating - to which each of the Complainant/ victim is
subjected, it may not be permissible to cite such other complainants/ victims
as witnesses to prove the act of cheating relating to them. Mere citing a
large number of complainants/ victims only as witnesses would also deny
them the right to file their protest petitions in the eventuality of a closure
report being field by the police in respect of the complaint on the basis of
which FIR was registered, or the Magistrate not accepting the final report/
charge-sheet and discharging the accused. (See Bhagwat Singh Vs.
Commissioner of Police , AIR 1985 SC 1285). Their right to oppose, or to
seek cancellation of bail that the accused may seek in relation to their
particular transaction would also be denied. If the accused enters into a
settlement/ compromise with the complainant on whose complaint the FIR
stands registered, and he chooses not to diligently participate in the trial, the
complaints of other victims may go unaddressed. Thus, the practice adopted CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 50 of 60 by the State/ Delhi Police, and which is sought to be defended by them, is
clearly erroneous and not sustainable in law 61. Mr. Jain has also drawn our attention to Section 180 Cr.P.C.
However, the same is completely irrelevant in the present context, since that
Section deals with the aspect of the territorial jurisdiction of the Court which
may inquire into or try the offence. 62. Thus, our answer to Question (a) is that in a case of inducement,
allurement and cheating of large number of investors/ depositors in
pursuance to a criminal conspiracy, each deposit by an investor constitutes a
separate and individual transaction. All such transactions cannot be
amalgamated and clubbed into a single FIR by showing one investor as the
complainant, and others as witnesses. In respect of each such transaction, it
is imperative for the State to register a separate FIR if the complainant
discloses commission of a cognizable offence. 63. We may now turn to question "b" of the present reference which reads
as follows: 64. Mr. Hariharan, the learned Amicus submits that each FIR registered in
respect of the commission of a cognizable offence under Section 154 Cr.
P.C. should lead to investigation on the information disclosed relating to
commission of cognizable offences and, eventually, to the filing of a final CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 51 of 60 report, on completion of investigation, under Section 173 Cr.P.C. Thus, in
respect of each FIR, the Investigating Authority is obliged to file a separate
final report. The Investigating Authority may furnish a further report or
reports in terms under Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. However, in respect of each
FIR, a separate final report under Section 173 would, necessarily, be
required to be submitted. He submits that at the stage of registration of FIR
and its investigation, Section 219 does not come into play. 65. Mr. Hariharan submits that after completion of investigation and after
filing of the charge sheet in respect of each of the FIRs, three cases of the
same kind in a particular year could be clubbed together and tried by virtue
of Section 219 of the Cr.P.C. In this regard, he not only places reliance on
the observations made by the Division Bench in Sharpurji Sorabji (supra),
he also places reliance on Sheo Saran Lal v. Emperor , 5 Ind. Cas. 896. In
this case, the appellant was charged and tried at one and the same trial for
three offences under Section 408 IPC, and three offences for forgery under Section 467 IPC. He was convicted and sentences in respect of the six
offences. The case against him was that three different persons, seeking to
deposit money in the bank, gave certain amounts to him for which he gave
receipts in his own handwriting and even forged the signatures of the
Manager of the bank. However, he embezzled the amounts. 66. The primary question which arose before the learned Single Judge of
the Allahabad High Court was whether the trial of the accused at one trial in
respect of those offences was illegal in view of Section 233 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure 1898, which lays down (like in Section 218 of the
Cr.P.C.), that there shall be a separate charge for every distinct offence and
that every such charge shall be tried separately, except in cases mentioned in CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 52 of 60 Sections 234 , 235 , 263 and 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898(which are similar to Sections 219 , 220 , 221 , 223 of the Cr.P.C.). 67. Section 234 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1898 (similar to Section 219 of the Cr.P.C.) and lays down that when a person is accused of
more offences than one of the same kind committed within the space of
twelve months from the first to the last of such offences, whether in respect
of the same person or not, he may be charged with, and tried at one trial for,
any number of them not exceeding three. Offences are of the same kind,
when they are punishable with the same amount of punishment under the
same section of the IPC , or of any special or local laws. 68. The learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court held that the
trial of the appellant/ accused in respect of those offences at one and the
same trial - though committed within a space of 12 months, contravened
Section 233, read with Section 234 , of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898. 69. The learned Single Judge rejected the submission on behalf of the
respondent/ Emperor that the expression "three offences" should be
understood as three "same transaction". The learned Single Judge observed: L.R. 973 : 9 Cr. L.J. 226 : 4 M.L.T. 45 : 2 Ind. Cas. 277. The
 judgment in that case makes no reference to whatever Clause
 (1), Section 235. Clause (2) of that section and Sections 237
 and 239 were considered, no doubt, but the present point was
 not before that Court and, in my opinion, Clause (1), Section
 235 and Section 234 must be mutually exclusive. Even at the
 trial of Bal Gangadhar Tilak 33 B. 221 : 10 Bom. L.R. 973 : 9
 Cr. L.J. 226 : 4 M.L.T. 45 : 2 Ind. Cas. 277, the prosecution
 was restricted to three offences, although there were two
 similar transactions in each of which two similar offences had
 been committed, and the accused has been committed for trial
 in respect of all four offences. To hold that Section 234
 covered all offences, committed in the course of three similar
 but separate transactions when the number of offences was
 more than three, would, in my opinion, be straining the
 language of the section beyond all bounds, Even in the trial of
 Bal Gangadhar Tilak 33 B. 221 : 10 Bom. L.R. 973 : 9 Cri. L.J. 226 : 4 M.L.T. 45 : 2 Ind. Cas. 277 the Bombay Court did
 not go to this extent, and, in my opinion, the trial of the
 present appellant in respect of six offences, three of
 embezzlement and three of forgery, is an illegality, as was laid down in the case of Subrahmania Ayyar v. King- Emperor‖ CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 54 of 60 70. No doubt, the aforesaid decision cited by Mr. Hariharan supports his
submission, but we may observe that the view expressed by the learned
Single Judge was a prima facie view. 71. Mr. Hariharan has also placed reliance on Chaman Lal Sankhla v.
State of Haryana (2008 CriLJ 2640: 2008 SCC OnLine P&H 207), decided
by learned Single Judge. In this case, the petitioner/ accused was alleged to
have issued 177 driving licenses without following the procedure prescribed
under the Motor Vehicles Act and the rules framed thereunder. FIR 26/2001
was registered against him and another co accused under Sections 218 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 and 120B IPC read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988. The charge sheet was filed on 15.04.2002 under the
aforesaid provisions. The accused were discharged under Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The learned CJM charged the petitioner
under Section 218 , 420 , 467 , 468 IPC while discharging him under Sections
471 and 120B IPC. The learned ASJ, Gurgaon vide his order dated
26.09.2006, passed in revision proceedings, held that issuance of every
license was a separate offence and by virtue of Section 219 of the Cr.P.C.,
the prosecution agency was obliged to submit different charge sheets under Section 173 Cr.P.C. joining 3 offences in one charge sheet. 72. The decision of the learned ASJ was assailed before the High Court.
One of the issues framed by the Court for its determination was whether the
learned Additional Sessions Judge had erred while holding that the issuance
of every licence was a separate offence, and by virtue of Section 219 of
Cr.P.C., separate report under Section 173 of Cr.P.C. are required to be
submitted. 73. The aforesaid issue was answered by the learned Single Judge as
follows: 74. Mr. Hariharan has also placed reliance on K.Manoj Reddy (supra)
notice whereof has been taken hereinabove. In this decision, the learned
Single Judge of the Andhara Pradesh High Court, inter alia, observed: 75. On the aforesaid question (b), the only submission advanced by Mr.
Jain is the one advanced in relation to question (a) i.e. that of acts of
cheating under a single conspiracy constitute the "same transaction". He
further submitted that question (b), as framed by the leaned ASJ, was flawed
since it proceeded on the assumption that number of transactions represents
the same number of offences. We have already rejected the aforesaid
submission of Mr. Jain while dealing with question (a). 76. From Chapter XII of the Cr.P.C ., it is evident that upon disclosure of
information in relation to commission of a cognizable offence, the police is
bound to register the FIR. The registration of FIR sets into motion the
process of investigation. The same culminates into the filing of the final
report by the police officer before the Magistrate. Thus, in respect of every
FIR, there would be a separate final report and, there could be, further
report(s) in terms of Section 173(8). 77. Thus, the observations made by the learned Single Judge in Chaman
Lal Sankhla (supra), though generally correct, do not appear to be correct in
so far as it purports to convey that the report under Section 173 Cr.P.C.
could comprise of up to three offences covered by the different FIRs. In
fact, in our view, the final report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. would be CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 57 of 60 required to be filed in respect of each FIR separately, and Section 219 would
come into play only at the stage of the framing of the charge. It is quite
possible that the final report in respect of one, or the other, of the multiple
FIRs (in relation to the commission of the offence of the same kind), may be
a closure report which is accepted by the Magistrate. It is also possible that
in respect of the Final Report filed in one of the several similar cases, the
Magistrate discharges the accused. Thus, we are of the view that the
observation made in paragraph 14 of K.Manoj Reddy (supra) records the
legal position more accurately than Chaman Lal Sankhla (supra). 78. The Investigating Agency/ Police is not authorized either to charge, or
to try the accused and the same is a judicial function. Thus, the
Investigating Agency/ Police cannot amalgamate the separate offences
investigated under separate FIRs, into one charge sheet. 79. Mr. Jain had also argued that after registration of a single FIR in
relation to commission of multiple offences arising from the same
conspiracy, and after filing of the Final Report under Section 173 Cr.P.C.,
the police could file supplementary/ further charge sheets under Section
173(8) Cr.P.C. in respect of each of the victims. We do not agree with this
submission, firstly, for the reason that to begin with, a single FIR cannot be
registered in respect of separate cognizable offences which do not form the
same transaction. Secondly, the supplementary/ further charge sheet under
Section 173(8) relates to the cognizable offence in respect whereof the FIR
is registered and, therefore, cannot relate to specific offences in respect of
which the victim is other than the complainant on whose complaint the FIR
is registered. 80. Thus, our answer to question (b) is that in respect of each FIR, a
separate final report (and wherever necessary supplementary/ further charge
sheet(s)) have to be filed, and there is no question of amalgamation of the
final reports that may be filed in respect of different FIRs. The
amalgamation, strictly in terms of Section 219 Cr.P.C., would be considered
by the Court/ Magistrate at the stage of framing of charge, since Section
219(1) mandates that where the requirements set out in the said Section are
met, the accused "may be charged with, and tried at one trial for, any
number of them not exceeding three" 81. We may now proceed to answer question (c), which read as follows: 82. In our view, the aforesaid question does not survive in view of the
answer to question (a) and (b). It would be for the Trial Court to consider
the sentence to which the convict may be subjected as per law, keeping in
view the well settled principles of sentencing. In this regard, we may only
refer to Section 31 of the Cr.P.C. which, inter alia, provides that when a
person is convicted at one trial of two or more offences, the Court, may
subject to the provisions of Section 71 IPC, sentence him for such offences
to the several punishments prescribed therefor which such Court is
competent to inflict. It further provides that such punishments, which
consist of imprisonment, would commence one after the expiration of the CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 59 of 60 other, unless the Court directs that such punishments shall run concurrently.
The limitation on the quantum of sentence is prescribed by sub Section 2 of Section 31 of the Cr.P.C., but the same would apply in respect of
convictions at one trial of two or more offences. However, where the trials
are multiple, which result into multiple convictions, the proviso to Section
31(2) would have no application. 83. Accordingly, the Criminal reference is answered in the above terms. (VIPIN SANGHI)
 JUDGE

 (I.S. MEHTA)
 JUDGE
JULY 08, 2019 CRL. REF 1/2014 Page 60 of 60