FACTS: It is important to know what the
 final outcome of the complaints is
 and performance ofthe Complaints
 cell and NCW has a constitutional
 body. This cannot be denied as earlierit
 has been given to me and
 alsoothers. Similar data is also provided
 byPolice in terms of FIR registered
 by them.So, NCW cannot deny this. There is no link that gives
 theinformation that is desired. 2. Minutes of meeting of The information is The link does not open. Thescreen
 NCWBoard and Chairperson available on shot of error message isas under. NirmalaSamantPrabhavalkar conducted an inquiry in Mumbai office of State
Women Commission and said that she is responsible for State of Maharashtra.
She travelled at cost of NCW for such hearings.As per the Chatwal Committee
report initiated pursuant to the order of CIC dated June 12, 2015 under my
complaint u/s 18 of RTI Act dated May 2015 in second appeal no. 332/ 2014,
she was held responsible for loss of documents. In this case also, no action has
been taken against her by NCW and as per the affidavit submitted by CPIO of
NCW in July 2015. She conducted a hearing in Mumbai office of State
Commission on a holiday i.e. 4th Saturday and what transpired at hearing is only
known to her. The minutes were made by her 6 months later for submission in
the High Court of Mumbai onMarch 25, 2014 and which are also under question
as regards the validity.I would like to see the tour report of the members and
also including that of Mrs. NirmalaSamantPrabhavalkar. I am sure it is available
and maintained by their respective admin department. She was asked to resign
just before the CIC hearing on December 30, 2014 in appeal no. 332/ 2014
( Minakshi vs. NCW )". 4. Appellant further submitted: It is known to the CPIO being also the legal
officer that in the writ petition filed by me in Delhi High Court 5892/2015,
pursuant to the notice issued to both Women & Child Ministry and National
Commission for Women, NCW set up a Fact Finding Committee under Mr.
O.P.Chatwal (ex-DIG, CBI) in which it had also dealt with my RTI dated
December 2 and 11, 2013. In this RTI also, I had sought information as regards
the cases filed in NCW. Through a reply dated July 2014, NCW had send me a
detailed reply showing the case no. and other particulars under each category
and for each of the years for which information was requested.Hence, there is no
reason as to why it is denied now on the pretext that it is available on the
website whereas it is not available and then URL link does not display anything.
It is presumed that the level of transparency is higher than it was in 2014 but
such a vague reply is disappointing. The annual report only has the statistical
information of total number of cases but not the manner in which it is sought
giving case no, category, number of hearings, status etc. in the same manner as

CIC/NWCOM/A/2018/610721 Page 4
 was given to me under RTI dated December 2013 which was subject matter of
the Fact Finding Committee and hence, the legal officer and CIC is fully aware
and is on the record and file of NCW.This is the third appeal that has been filed
in 2017 as regards the functioning in NCW. The other 2hearings are scheduled
for January 31, 2018 in appeal no. CIC/MOWCD/A/2018/102543
andCIC/NCFWO/A/2017/607207. There have been other orders also passing
strictures against NCW -CPIO and also levy of penalty of the earlier FAA - Mr.
Raju in another case i.e. CIC/NCFWO/A/2017/135800. 5. She further submitted: There is a repeated abuse of my right and such
disregard has continued despite the earlier warnings in order dated December
30, 2014 in second appeal 332/ 2014 and adjunct to order dated March 28,
2016 in Adjunct to Decision No. CIC/MP/A/2015/001472. Such harassment and
violation of a citizen's right is evident. The CPIO is an advocate and well versed
with the law and legislation. In another matter before Maharashtra State
Information Commission as regards the details of cases registered by cyber
police station in last 3 years, it was provided after order dated November 7,
2017 in complaint to SIC and I was also allowed inspection of the crime register.
I pray for strict action against the CPIO and also penalty to levied and
compensation for trauma and harassment being caused to be repeatedly by
NCW. Such has been NCW's disregard to orders of the Court and also CIC not
only in this case but even others. The grounds are as stated in First Appeal. I
seek exemplary penalty to be imposed for such disregard and abuse by the WCD
despite a detailed First Appeal. I request for compensation for the harassment
and trauma caused to me by denial of information despite warnings in earlier
orders and stricture passed against the NCW CPIO and FAA. I also request for
penalty to be levied for such deliberate delays and replies without any
application of mind in gross negligence of duty and in abuse of the mandate of
the NCW to ensure that rights of women are upheld. 6. Mr. Ravinder Singh, CPIO and Ms. K. Lalita, former CPIO submitted that
the information regarding status of complaints and appeals before NCW for the
period 2014-17 is voluminous an is not available in complied form. The officers
further stated that the total no. of category wise cases pending and disposed off
before the NCW is available at their official web-site and the extract of the same
has been supplied to the appellant. 7. It is unthinkable and devoid of reason that the National Commission
Women contends that the information about complaints, name of
respondent/organization, number of hearings and current status of litigation if
any is information given to NCW is in fiduciary capacity and hence they cannot
disclose it. If that is the case entire activity of NCW is in fiduciary, which
according to it means top secret and cannot be shared with the people. This is
absurd and deliberate denial of information. Another wonderful absurdity is that
this illegal reply was confirmed by the First Appellate Authority. If the higher
authorities above two these officers have approved this reply, it will be a great
tragedy. 8. The decision making process, minutes of meeting and decisions are
supposed to be voluntarily disclosed by the public authority as per Section
4(1)(b) of RTI Act on their own and this has to be updated from time to time.
Surprisingly, this NCW does not host any information about minutes and refuse
such information when asked under RTI by the citizen. This is blatant violation of RTI Act . The FAA has illegally supported the decision of CPIO. 9. Availability of information on website is no defense to deny the
information. There are access problems with the website loaded information. It
may not open at a particular point, and the complainant may not be in a position
to have access because of inability, absence of power and absence of required
band width or server problem. Website cannot answer the applicant's
requirement of certified copy. The CPIO has a duty to furnish information
through certified copy. If annual reports are priced publications, the CPIO can
ask for the price and send it to the RTI applicant. If not he could give at a cost of
Rs 2 per page. Simply intimating applicant that website contains information
sought amounts to insufficient or incomplete information and it is denial. Both
CPIO and FAA did not apply their mind to this aspect also. Sad. 10. On perusal of records submitted by the CPIO and browsing of the official
web-site the Commission finds that the web-site is short of relevant records and
data that supposed to reflect the core functioning of NCW. The sou-moto
disclosures on their website as per Sec. 4(1)(b) of RTI act is totally insufficient.
Instead of giving specific & detailed information regarding 17 categories
mentioned in Sec. 4(1)(b) they have simply furnished the bare Act, rules and

CIC/NWCOM/A/2018/610721 Page 6
 regulations. Details of employees were not made available. There is no mention
of the powers and duties of each & every office with name & designation. It
doesn't convey any information to the viewer as to who will perform what
functions and on what basis. Similarly, the categories of documents are also too
general, nothing is specific. The most important aspect i.e. the Minutes of
Boards, Counsel Committees & other bodies were not provided. There are no
FAQ's. The Public Authority must have provided the detailed procedure for filing
the RTI offline in the same manner as they have provided for online. A practical
guide to filing a complaint & the follow up mechanism along with possibilities of
knowing the status of the investigation & action taken from time to time should
have been provided. Thus NCW is Section 4(1) non-compliant, which means
continuous breach of RTI Act since 2006. 11. The National Commission for Women is a public authority to deal with the
complaints about Bigamy/Polygamy, Cyber Crime, Dowry harassment/ dowry
death, Free Legal Aid, Gender Discrimination including equal right to education &
work,Indecent Representation of Women, Outraging Modesty, Police Apathy
against Women, Privacy and Rights, Reproductive health rights, Right to Exercise
Choice in marriage, Right to live with dignity, Sex selective abortion / female
foeticide / amniocentesis, Sexual harassment including sexual harassment at
workplace, Stalking / Voyeurism, Traditional practices derogatory to women
rights, i.e. sati pratha, devdasipratha, witch hunting, Trafficking / Prostitution of
women, Violence, Women's right of custody of children in the event of divorce,
etc.The Commission functions for the disposal of such complaints after hearing
the parties involved. Therefore, it has a duty and a statutory obligation to
disclose details regarding its functioning, daily proceedings and orders/directions
issued in every case of complaint involving the rights of women, in the public
domain. 12. The National Commission for Women is expected to tell the people in
general what it was doing on complaints and what action resulted. The NCW
cannot deny the information what High Court or Supreme Court or Tribunals or
quasi-judicial bodies are giving. Each and every order given by the Commissions
are available on their websites. The NCW has to mind especially the following
categories of information to be disclosed under Section 4(1)(b) : 13. The information sought by the appellant falls under the above categories
and hence cannot be denied. Section 4(1)(c) and (d) impose the duty of the
public authority to explain the policies and reasons for the decisions. c) publish all relevant facts while formulating important policies or announcing the
 decisions which affect public; d) provide reasons for its administrative or quasi-judicial decisions to affected
 persons. 14. Every administrative direction and decision in every quasi-judicial
proceedingneed to be disclosed. The NCW is refusing to give information about
their minutes and decisions. They have converted their hearings, directions and
actions into some numbers and giving that as the information. The NCW devised
a mechanism of giving statistics and not the required information. Ambiguous
statistics do not amount to denial. All these years the NCW lost the opportunity
of telling the people that they have effectively resolved problems (if any) and
grievances of the women who approached them, by not reporting them. Its most
unfortunate that law-knowing officers consider that such information is 'fiduciary'
and thus 'secret'. If a case is filed in Supreme Court, the complainant and others
get to know what the decision was, but not in NCW. Section 10 of National
Commission for Women Act, 1990 deals with Functions of the Commission
saying.--(1) The Commission shall perform all or any of the following
functions,and they are the questions the NCW has to answer voluntarily. The
questions based on Section 10 are: 15. Their website should contain the report of activities on each of the above
question which is based on the clauses under Section 10 . 16. The CPIO denied even the annual reports, tour details, which is illegal and
not acceptable. NCW has toimmediately initiate the required mechanism for
maintenance of the orders, directions, passed in every case. Except the names
of the victims of sexual assaults every other details need to be disclosed so that

CIC/NWCOM/A/2018/610721 Page 9
 vulnerable sections would find reassurance at the Commission and accused-
respondents would be deterred from repeating the offences, as the NCW will not
spare them.The complaints by victims of sexual assaults and harassment could
be mentioned as Ms. X, and victim children of trafficking could be mentioned as
Child x. The reports of mediation facilitated by NCW in matrimonial disputes if
any need not be reported, except the brief result whether successful. 17. The Commission's order dated 08.06.2018: 18. The Commission recommends NCW to give information on every
 complaint/representation made to it, its action, hearing, decision/direction from
 January 1, 2014 till October 31, 2017 as sought within a month and make it a
 regulardisclosure policy in the format suggested by appellant for all the
 remaining years within two months and update it every week or fortnight or
 month as per their convenience. 19. The Commission directs all the tour details of the Chairpersons and
 members as sought be disclosed to appellant, and hereafter, keep such
 information on the official website regularly. The Commission directs the CPIO to
 report the compliance of orders of the CIC in earlier appeals of this appellant referred above . 20. The Commission directs the CPIOMs. K.Lalitha toshow cause why
 maximum penalty should not be imposed against her for denying the information
 illegally and directs the First Appellate Authority Mr.R C Ahuja, to explain why
 he has confirmed the order of the CPIO without applying mind. 21. The Commission directs the public authority to explain why it should not
 be directed to pay compensation to the appellant, as she was harassed and
 denied the information which NCW should have given on its own. 22. All the responses shall reach by July 4, 2018 and the case is posted for
 compliance and penalty at 2.30 at July 4, 2018. Decision : 2. As per my understanding of the RTI Act, 2005 , the information requested
 for by an RTI applicant, has to be provided in the manner and the form, it is
 maintained and it is not required to be being compiled in a different manner or
 form as may be requested for by the RTI applicant. It is further submitted that
 the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in its decision dated 07/01/2016 [LPA 24/2015 & CM
 No. 965/2015, The Registrar of Supreme Court of India vs. Commodore Lokesh K
 Batra&Ors .] stated that:- 3. Based on the inputs of the concerned sections, the information was
 provided to the Appellant. In this regard, I will make the following submissions: NCW's role is limited to providing support to the complainant by taking
 up the matter with the implementing agencies and providing them
 counselling as to the course of action available to them. The
 information with NCW was provided to the Appellant, however
 regarding the second part of the information sought by the appellant
 was denied u/s Section 8 (1) (e) of the RTI Act, to protect the details
 of the complainants, nature of complaints, that may lead to
 unwarranted invasion of privacy of the concerned complainants and
 also of the alleged respondents/accused. (b) With respect to the question No. 2 of the RTI application of
 Ms.Maheshwari, it is humbly submitted that the information was
 provided to the appellant on the basis of inputs received from the
 Administration Section of NCW. (c) With respect to question No. 3 of the RTI application of
 Ms.Maheshwari, it is humbly submitted that the annual reports of the
 NCW since 2014, as requested by her, is available in its website and
CIC/NWCOM/A/2018/610721 Page 11
 the same is in public domain, The appellant has acknowledged the
 same in her appeal. (d) With respect to question No. 4 regarding tour details, the information
 that was provided to the appellant on the basis of inputs received from
 the concerned section, 3. In view of the above facts it is humbly submitted that the CPIO provided the
 information as was made available by the custodian of information and after
 considering all the aspect replied accordingly to the appellant. In the light of the
 above, I wish to submit that I have made my best possible effort keeping in view
 the spirit of the RTI Act, 2005 . It is therefore, requested, that my submissions
 may be placed before the Hon'ble CIC for considerations and dropping the penal
 proceedings u/s 20 of the RTI Act, 2005." 19. Mr. R.C. Ahuja, Under Secretary, Staff Selection Commission, in his
written submissions dated 03.07.2018, explained that he believed in good faith
the conclusion of the CPIO as proper and legal. He gave a lengthy explanation,
which the Commission takes note of. 20. Upon perusal of the records and submissions made by the parties, the
Commission finds that the information, which could be provided, has been
provided to the appellant. The Commission is also convinced that the
explanation given by Smt. K. Lalita, Assistant Law Officer is reasonable and
satisfactory, hence finds no reason for either to impose penalty on the CPIO or
award compensation to the appellant. In view of this, the penalty proceedings
are dropped. Disposed of. SD/-