Download Karnataka’s Draft Policy for Responsible Digital Use Among Students here .

Karnataka’s Department of Health and Family Welfare has released the “ Draft Policy for Responsible Digital Use Among Students ,” targeting school students (Grades 9–10) and pre-university or higher secondary students (Grades 11–12). The draft is based on consultations led by the Karnataka State Mental Health Authority (KSMHA) and the National Institute of Mental Health & Neurosciences (NIMHANS). These included a multistakeholder consultation held on October 16, 2025, and a focus group discussion on October 31, 2025.

No IT Ministry or tech firms involved : However, despite being described as a “multistakeholder consultation,” the meeting did not see participation from the Karnataka IT ministry, social media companies, smartphone manufacturers, or Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Their participation is significant because the discussions included proposals such as restricting access at the Operating System (OS) level and cutting data access from 7 PM.

MeitY’s stakeholder consultations with tech companies : In contrast to the Karnataka government, the central government’s Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) has held at least three consultations with social media platforms and other stakeholders to assess the technical feasibility of age-gating, according to a report by The Economic Times.

NIMHANS to coordinate the draft policy: As per the draft, NIMHANS will coordinate the policy formulation and design a programme for the responsible use of digital technologies among students. These consultations included professionals from NIMHANS, the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the Department of Education, research scholars, school teachers, and parents.

Some of the key recommendations are:

Most recommendations in the draft policy focus on digital awareness programmes, such as annual workshops or orientation sessions in schools, as well as tech-free periods and digital detox weeks. For instance, it proposes setting up a Digital Wellness Committee in every school , comprising principals, mental health professionals, teachers, student representatives, and cybercrime police officers.

Amid discussions on banning social media for under-16s : Recently, during the 2026–27 state budget session, Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah announced that the government would ban social media for children under 16. However, no bill has yet been introduced to implement such a ban.

Following global trends after Australia’s move to ban social media for under-16s , the state governments of Andhra Pradesh and Goa are also considering similar measures. Meanwhile, instead of a blanket ban, the central government is reportedly exploring a three-tier social media restriction plan .

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event