SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Got seduced by my maid, wanted to but got scared. Need advice on how to move forward.
DATE: 2022-01-20
SCORE: 1105
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/s8lygk/got_seduced_by_my_maid_wanted_to_but_got_scared/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hi,

Throwaway account for only this question.

Serious answers only.

The incident happened today and 100% true, I need advice.

I am 23M in Pune, and today my entire family was not home in the morning except me, I was in my house due to WFH. 
My maid arrived in the house and realized no one is in my house, I have noticed since a long time that she is a bit touchy.

Today, she asked me to check her weight on my weight machine and blah blah, asked me to check the number since she cant read, my weighing machine is placed in a place where you cant look at it sideways so I looked from behind and while checking she started to use her butt to grind against my groin. (She did this multiple times today)

I was taken a back a little, but I didn't pay any heed at that time, then she started throwing small talks and how she feels "nice" touching me, watching porn and stuff (just general seduction talks). So in short, she was trying to seduce me and me being a piece of shit, got seduced. I didn't touch her even when she was provoking me to because I was scared.

She has worked in our house since a long time and doesn't have a husband or kids FYI.

Tbh, the only reason I didn't follow along is because I have 0 experience in all this and I was scared of STD because of no rubber, If I had condoms, I would have 100% gone ahead. 
My real scare would be if I did the act and I come back with a rape/molestation allegation.

After she left, I had my post nut clarity and felt extremely worried and was shaking, what she did was extremely inappropriate and me who did nothing and went along felt even more so.

So, my brain is right now split into 2, ofc there is one side which screams to go with the flow, the other one says its too risky.

Can someone help me with possible legal issues which might appear if I choose to do any of the 2?The entire power play seems to be with her. 
I am really scared that if I reject after showing signs of "interest" (which was just my brain being horny), she might put a molestation charge against me. (I swear to god, I have not touched her inappropriately in any way, I am too much of a virgin to do that) 
And if I go ahead with doing "it" with her, I might end up being blackmailed for things.

The biggest scare I have is having a false rape charge against me.

Also, please don't call me a shit guy, I already feel disgusted with myself.

Thanks.

*Edit*:

Ok, so I am writing this comment as a Q&amp;A since it turns out to very difficult to reply to each and every one of you, rest assured I have read all your comments. All of this means so much to me you guys have no idea. 

Q: First I feel people are having a hard time understanding how did I get seduced and not touch her? 

A: TLDR: I did not have sex with her. 

Long answer: I did not follow up with any sexual advances she made towards me but I did not push her back either. So while I was getting harassed, I just froze. Hope this clears out a lot of air, also this will sound really pathetic of me when I fess up on this but in my mind at that particular moment, I was half horny (ideal scenario when someone gets seduced) and half scared. I think this is the biggest problem with male mindset, we don't have our post nut clarity all the time, I only realized wtf I did (or did not do, should have pushed her away instantly) AFTER I did the nut which was in the bathroom after she left. 

I have been raised with high moral values and probably the reason I still had some sanity left in that situation. 

Q: Sequence of event 
Event was like this: 

\- Asked to check weight 

\- Grinded her back-side on my groin 

\- Started touching my arms with her arms 

\- Grinded her back-side on my groin again. 

\- Tried to hug me, I froze and couldn't respond 

\- Says how she feels very good when she does this 
 
\- Grinds her groin on my groin, totally feeling me up at this point. 

\- Goes back and talks if I know how to do "it" 

\- I tell her I do not know how to do "it" 

\- Tells me I should watch some videos and how she watches videos on her TV 

\- While I was feeding my cats, comes and does the entire sequence of touching me and feeling me up. 

\- Talks about how she sleeps naked etc etc. 

\- Talks borderline romantic and sexual stuff, by this time I am suspecting this is definitely not a hookup call and more towards romantic side of things. Giant red flag. 

\- Finishes her work, informs me and tells me 10 times she is leaving, I said ok 

\- She continues to ask, do I want her to leave 

\- I said yes please 

\- I go to close the door, she again grind herself very hard on me. 

\- Leaves. 

Q: What does harassment feel like? 

A: Terrible, my eyes water whenever I think about it, hands start shaking, it is hard to talk about, and the worst part is, I am not worried about the harassment as much as I am worried about criminal allegations which could be filed against me. Being harassed is bad enough, its even worse when chances of criminal allegations against me are more worrying than that. I am very very scared right now. 

Q: Did I tell anyone? 

A: Yes, I have told my brother everything and borrowed his webcam and hid it under the monitor, I have setup YouCam and will record whenever she is in the house and I will only be sitting in front of my computer. The biggest mistake I did was not turning on my mobile's recorder today. I only plan to tell my parents AFTER I gather enough evidence, things can go down south very quickly if I tell my mother. 

I would first of all like to thank all of you for being so supportive in such a stressful time. I needed some of you talk some rationale into me. I also hope this never happens to anyone, My plan is to record whenever she is in the house and my brother will leave my room and go talk to Dad for a while to open up an opportunity for her to touch me again, I plan to calmly talk to her why is she doing this, this is not morally correct etc. etc. 
I will keep you guys updated with the situation if anything happens, which I am sure will happen.