SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: How corruption works in India: A few observations
DATE: 2022-08-15
SCORE: 558
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/wougqd/how_corruption_works_in_india_a_few_observations/

--- POST TEXT ---

I've worked in various government departments as a consultant specialising in media all across East and North East India. My job usually is to come in and prepare a Public Relations plan for many of these department for various programs and projects like Beti Bachao, Skills Development, Swach Bharat, etc.

In my time working in these places, I've made some interesting observations.

1. Civil Service officers holding down multiple posts in government run companies. Usually an IAS guy will hold a position like CEO or Director of multiple companies. But his focus will be on a few specific companies. Other companies will be run by a deputy director or some such who is usually not IAS but one of the lesser services like Forest or Revenue. Sometimes they don't even attend meetings of these organisations that they supposedly run.

2. The people working in these government companies or departments are all friends or related to each other. In India even among tribal states in NE india, there is a very strong clan/family system. If one gets appointed to a government office, he is expected to bring his friends and family along. Villages actively sponsor and work to make the smartest kids try for civil services or government office. If that kid ends up in government service, he is expected to bring along all his benefactors and family. I remember going to a PSU and the HR were all related to each other or lived in the same neighborhood. Hell they even commute together.

3. The corruption happens not the way you think it does. Ever since 2014 it has become harder to be openly corrupt. But it's still happening. The frontline people like social workers and office staff are usually not corrupt but because most of them got their jobs via nepotism, they all support the corruption. The real corruption starts at the mid and higher level. These departments put out tenders for construction or equipment. But there is collusion between those who put the tenders and those who submit bids. Usually the tenders are worded in such a way that only those who are in the know win the bid.

3. The World Bank, Asian Development Bank and other nebulous foreign organizations practically throw money into hair brained schemes and projects in India with little oversight. It's a pigs trough. I think large parts of Eastern India's economy is propped up thanks to these organisations. Why do they do it? I have no idea. Projects sponsored by these organisations includes building water tanks no one uses, roads that aren't necessary, schools that work well for one or two years before project funding runs out and collapse, tourism sites that no one visits, environmental projects such as afforestatio, etc. Afforestation is one the biggest scams. Some environmentalist organization comes in and declares that it wants to plant trees and is willing to sponsor. But you can not do shit without a government department's approval, they put out a tender for saplings, then nurseries owned by bureaucract/politicians relatives come in and submit inflated bids. They make sure no one else is allowed to bid. They win the bid, the trees are planted using free labour by forcing the local NSS, NCC, Scouts, School/College kids to plant. 99% of the trees die or are cut down a few months later because these lands are usually near farmland and farmers need firewood. The whole process repeats. Money is made. I've seen afforestation programs happen in the same place where trees planted earlier are cut down and replanted. It's absolutely a scam.

5. None of it works. As i alluded to earlier, most of these projects involve the building of infrastructure. But there's no plan for their maintainence after thier construction. So they end up becoming abandoned or fall to disrepair. In the next few years expect to hear a lot stories of bridge/dam/road collapses. 

6. Goals tend to contradictory. You cannot have Development without some environmental impact. You cannot encourage farmers to be more environmentally conscious with out decreasing the capabilities of their fields. These two contradictory goals means that none of the projects work because they clash with each other. The forest department might want to increase forest cover in an area but at the same time the agriculture department will try to increase crop yields in the samep place. 

7. Corruption is lesser in tribal states. There's still plenty of corruption in the the NE tribal states, but it's not as blatant or open as in the plains like Assam and WB. The tribal states however tend to be more incompetent at implementing programs. Usually Byzantine rules and regulations related to the sixth schedule make a lot of implementation virtually impossible. 

8. The Indian government wants to control culture. Many of you won't understand this but those from a media or communication background will know about how the Russians try to control culture within their country. India follows a similar playbook. You cannot hold a cultural event within India without the governments approval. The government sponsors everything from Hindu ceremonies to Metal concerts. You want to hold a football tournament, you need approval from the Deputy Commisioner and the Sports Department. You want to have a writing festival? DC and Arts and Culture department. The government will sponsor a rally race while at the same time sponsor the environment organisation protesting the rally. They want to control everything. In the plains this is actually quite effective. But the hills and the tribes are resistant to this. The mostly Christian tribals don't enjoy intrusion of the government into their churches. Same is true with the animists and tribal religions. There are a lot of illegally festivals, events, etc in the hills. The government has been trying to stamp them out via holding competing events. They try to promote a sanitized and approved versions that tourists can visit and that they can control.

These are some of the observations I've seen. Will post more if I can think of some.

9. The people who work in these organisations are weirdos and near do wells. If you are a smart and a Competent individual, you work on the private sector usually in tech. Some of the Civil services guys might be smart or competent, but the ones I encountered were not the best or brightest. I can't tell if they genuinely believe in the projects they were apart of or whether they were just cynical ly working there to make money. There was Block Development Officer I met in tribal state, a non tribal man living among the tribals. He was not the smartest man or hard working but he was honest in his assesment of his work, paraphrasing what He told me, "I've held this office for 4 + years and I've been part of numerous projects and programs, but I don't think anything I've done has made any difference to anyone life." Some of the low level guys like social workers genuinely want to help people but they know its bullshit and it's genuinely heartbreaking to see people who caret being crushed. Buts there's also plenty of the low level guys who just don't give a crap. The most memorable thing I always saw when we had field visits to project sites was that every government workers would wear high end foreign brands like Nike, Addidas, Puma, saw a Yeezy or two while the villages and towns people they were meeting were lucky to have shoes or even slippers. It's was such a stark contrast.

10. Politicians can't bribe the electorate openly anymore. So now they do this weird accounting trick. Basically any spending by departments and PSU's need the approval of the minister. What happens is that these ministers delay or outright refuse to approve something up until just before an election. Every time you hear of funding shortages or how funding is not being used, it is usually a sign that the politician/party of that state is delaying releasing the funds until just before the elections. That way they can go campaign they can brag about all the funding they are releasing