SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Feeling suicidal, pls help
DATE: 2024-04-19
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1c7vvhg/feeling_suicidal_pls_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

27M in Mumbai. My dad lost all his life savings in some ponzi scheme offering high interest rates. That money was close to 45L. We are not happy in the flat that we live, so have shifted to a rental place, and we pay around 23k p.m. We have sold our prev flat but the money we received is not high enough to fund our new home. So might be I've to take a loan of say around 15 to 25L to be able to buy atleast a 1 bhk in decent locality. I'm already done my MBA last yr, and in a debt of 18L. 
Adding to the woes my father's health worsened last November. Due to the lost money he got a brain stroke, and now he is unable to do even the basic day 2 day functions. He is completely dependent on us. I don't have any siblings. And he doesn't have any decent medical insurance. Also companies are outright rejecting our insurance deal. So if any major surgery happens I might fall in the debt spiral. 
I'm also starting to worry about my mom's health now, and she too is taking it all, and I don't feel she deserves any of this. 
I sometimes feel I've been harsh on my parents for all the bad decisions that they have done and putting us in this place. When I look at insta stories of my other friends whose parents have decent money and are in good healthy condition, I just feel how they are getting to live their life just like a free birds, they go to the gym, party, travel, have lots of friends, etc, but here how miserable I am, and why do I have to live this life. 
It's not all my parents fault, I too am not in to any IIT or IIM so as to have a decent job, that would have taken care of our home issue, as well as offsetted the money my father has lost. 
Only way out for me is to earn as much money as I can, but this won't happen overnight, the condition the economy is in, getting rejections one after the other, is making me feel, my last hope too getting away. Due to all these reasons, I'm unable to focus on my work, as at one point it's going to affect my professional life. 
I might be 47, when things could finally improve after I put in lots of efforts, but what's the point, half of my life will be gone. But sometimes, it makes me wonder for whom am I fighting this battle for? And for what price? My dad has already given up. 
I don't know if I could get any help here, but I feel this step is much better than simply googling how do I end my life. Thanks.