SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: 39-year-old boyfriend just broke it off with... everyone. Need advice.
DATE: 2019-05-26
SCORE: 31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/bsyibm/39yearold_boyfriend_just_broke_it_off_with/

--- POST TEXT ---

Hey, r/india! I'm sorry to invade with another annoying relationship advice post, but I'm emotionally raw and don't know who else to turn to. This is a throwaway account. 

**tl;dr: Last night, my boyfriend told his parents that if he couldn't marry me, then he won't marry anybody, ever. Then he broke up with me because he doesn't want to string me along. He's choosing the single life, but says I'm his best friend. Advice?**

&amp;#x200B;

A little background about me: I'm a 28 year old American female living in a very rural Midwest town. I lived in China for 6 years, had a Chinese husband, but now divorced. He was very traditional conservative Muslim Chinese. I lived with his family after marriage, did all the things a new daughter-in-law was supposed to do, and honestly really enjoyed it. I had a great relationship with my mother-in-law and sisters. I'm not put off by dirt floors or farming responsibilities or anything like that. But the religious differences were just too great, and so we divorced. No anger between us, and not too many hurt feelings. I have a 2 year old daughter (found out I was pregnant shortly before the divorce), and am now living at home with my parents. I'm working and studying full time, will finally earn my bachelor's degree next month, and start my master's in the fall. 

A little background about him: He's a 39 year old Gujarati man who has been in the US for about five years. He works at the gas station down the street. He's the youngest of four, and has never been married. He comes from the village Lodra, near Gandhinagar. I don't know much about that area, but he says it's quite traditional. He worked as a farmer there, and also owned a graphic design business with his best friend for about 15 years. But after the business tanked, he decided to come to the US. Unfortunately, he fell victim to an immigration scam, and ended up being violently coyoted over the Mexican border. He says it was a very traumatic experience. But, he got a lawyer and although he has no visa, he has a work permit. So although he is here legally, he cannot leave the country and return, which means he can't go visit India unless he's done with the US. 

&amp;#x200B;

We've been making eyes at each other for the better part of a year, but it was me that initiated the first non-work related conversation. We fell hard for each other. That instant, comfortable kind of love. It was like settling into your favorite couch after a long day. We have the same values, same politics, same wants out of life, same sense of humor, pretty much the same spiritual beliefs. He's great with my daughter... mind you, he's seen her since she was first born, and she loves him. I've been learning to speak and write Gujarati, and I'm at the point now where I can have a small conversation. We decided to become officially boyfriend and girlfriend in March. He told me it was a very serious thing. I was his first everything... first girlfriend, first kiss, first sexual experience. But he wanted to wait and take it slow in telling his parents. His plan was to first start mentioning me as a friend, and progress it over a few months, to get them used to the idea. He made it very clear that his parent's approval is necessary, however. I spoke with a few other Indian couples who live around this area, and are also from Gujarat, and they advised that convincing the parents to agree to our relationship could take a year, but to keep strong and not give up. Okay, all good. 

But his best friend outed us prematurely. His friend was showing me around their village on video chat, showing me the temples and landmarks. But then he takes me into my boyfriend's house and shows me to his mother, telling his mother who I was. So, my boyfriend then told them about our relationship, and his parents forbade us to have any more communication. I was in the background for that conversation, and although I couldn't understand what was being said, I could definitely understand the emotions. He told his parents that he intended to marry me, and they hung up the call on him. He said it's okay, just need to give them some time to think. 

He kept bringing it up to them, and they kept telling him no. They said they would agree to us being good friends, but not getting married. Then they told him that they were going to find him an Indian girl to marry. We stopped having sex, because he felt it was disrespectful to me, and that if he can't promise me marriage then he feels like he's using me by continuing to have sex. I understand where he's coming from and his feelings on the issue. But a week later, I found out from a blood test (for something completely unrelated) that I was pregnant. It was super early in the pregnancy... the blood test could pick it up, but the urine test could not. He asked me to take the pills to end the pregnancy, and I told him I really didn't want to do that. He said that a pregnancy would be the worst possible thing if we weren't married, especially in the eyes of his parents. I agreed to take the pills, but it was not an easy choice, and something we are both struggling with. I mean, I know that scientifically it was so early that it really can't be considered a baby, and that there was no guarantee that the embryo would have even been a viable pregnancy, but another part of me also feels like I killed my baby. It's hard to explain. 

 
We were fighting a bit during this time, but ultimately it brought us closer. Things were starting to get back to normal, and he told his best friend about what happened. However, his best friend accused me of lying in order to blackmail him (I definitely wasn't lying), and it caused a huge fight between the two of them. They haven't spoken since. 

On Wednesday night, he spoke with his parents again. He asked once more for their approval, but they demanded that he go back to India and get married. He told them no. Furthermore, he told them that if he couldn't marry me, then he won't marry anyone. On Friday night (last night, also my birthday for what it's worth), he told me that he was up all night thinking about what to do, and he decided that being single was the best option. He said he loves me and wants to be with me, but thinks that I'm wasting my life on him. He feels torn between me and his parents, so he decided to choose neither. He told me that he views me as his best friend, and doesn't want to lose my friendship or company, but told me to no longer think of him as my boyfriend, and to stop holding on to hope that his parents will change their mind. 

I'm feeling extremely hurt and angry. A part of me wants to just never speak to him again and move on, but I do love him, and I also consider him to be my best friend. I know he's hurting right now... and I can't help but hope that maybe time will change his mind and soften his parent's hearts. So what should I do? Should I continue to be there for him, be his friend, and hold on to hope that things will change in our favor? Is this just an emotional reaction he's having to a highly stressful situation? 

Or am I just wasting my time?