The question that comes for consideration in the

 writ petition is as to whether the FIRs registered at the

 instance of the four petitioners herein are required to be

 transferred for investigation to the Central Bureau of

 Investigation. The FIR at the instance of the first petitioner

 Joydeb Mondal has already resulted in a charge sheet

 being CS No. 186 of 2022 dated May 31, 2022. The other

 three FIRs being Contai PS Case No. 128 dated March 27,

 2023 under Sections 406 / 420 / 120B of the IPC and Contai

 PS Case No. 129 dated March 27, 2023 under the same

 Sections and Contai PS Case No. 130 dated March 27, 2 2023 has been registered under the Same Section.

Investigation is on. Suffice it to say that complaints have been taken

cognizance by the State police. The crux of the argument of

the counsel for the petitioners is that the entire

recruitment scam relating to recruitment conducted by the

School Service Commission for the year 2016, is being

investigated by the CBI and is being monitored by a Co-

ordinate bench of this Court. The grievance of the petitioners in the complaints

which have resulted in FIR that they have given money, on

being induced by the 5th respondent for securing jobs.

They have not got any job. This must, therefore, be treated

as part and parcel of the main recruitment scam already

been investigated by the CBI. The petitioners, therefore, pray that the subject

FIRs must also be transferred to the CBI for further

investigation. The learned Advocate General represents the State.

A three-fold submission has been advanced. Firstly, it is

submitted that the subject matter of the CBI investigation

is slightly different from the complaints of the petitioners

that have already resulted in FIRs. (a) It is submitted that

the allegations made in the investigation of the CBI are

that successful candidates have got jobs. (b) The mark

sheets and marks obtained by some of the candidates have

been manipulated. (c) There has been large scale 3 irregularities in the recruitment process conducted by the

School Service Commission. By reason of the above, according top the learned

Advocate General, the facts of the instant case and

complaints of the petitioners stand on a completely footing.

The facts in the complaints of the petitioners and the

investigation being currently undertaken by the CBI are

completely different. Mr. Mookherjee next argued that in paragraph 3 of

the writ petition, the petitioners themselves have averred

that the recruitment promised to them was not in the

education department or under the School Service

Commission. It has been averred that the jobs have been

promised to them in the Health Department, Food

Department in various Grades and categories of posts.

There is, therefore, no similarity whatsoever between the

complaints of the petitioners and that being investigated by

the CBI under the ages of the Co-ordinate bench. It is next argued by Mr. Mookherjee that in the case

under investigation of the CBI is that the beneficiaries of

illegal gratification have been identified. They are officials

of the State in the education department. Some

beneficiaries have been named. Some have been traced out

in course of investigation. In the instant case, according to Mr. Mookherjee

there are no named beneficiaries. There is a mere

allegation of a promise of jobs against payment of money. 4 Learned Advocate General has also pointed out that

the 5th respondent is in custody in connection with the

subject FIR. In course of submissions, Mr. Bagchi, learned

counsel for the petitioners would rely upon certain offer

letters for jobs received by some other persons similarly

situated as the petitioners. He submits that the said offer

letters were a result of pressure from local persons. This Court cannot allow the petitioners to introduce

new documents at a final hearing of the writ petition. The arguments advanced by the learned counsel for

the petitioners and the learned Advocate General for the

State have been carefully considered. Indeed, it is a fact that the recruitment promised to

the petitioners as contained in their complaints do not

refer to any in the educational department of the State.

FIRs have already been registered by the police in respect

of the petitioners' complaint. One FIR has already been

investigated and a charge sheet being No. 186 of 2022

dated May 31, 2022 has already been filed. The circumstances under which an investigation is

transferred from the State agency to an independent

agency is now well-settled in the series of decisions of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court. The cases are those where it

cannot be generally expected for the State agencies to be

independent and uninfluenced by any other State

authority or person in power. There is another category of 5 cases where investigation is sought against the State police

officials themselves. The bottom line as evident from the dicta of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court is that investigation must appear

to the public at large to be fair. Such fair investigation

must not only happen but also seen to be happening. The petitioners are 4 in number and a large number

of those similarly situated and/or likely to be situated

cannot be ignored by this Court. The investigation at first

glance has to be directed against the 5th respondent who is

admittedly a teacher in a Government school. The

investigation being conducted by the CBI has in many

cases found similar and immediate beneficiaries of illegal

gratification in return for jobs in the education department

being the school teachers and/or their cronies. One

cannot but take judicial notice of the fact that with each

passing day new facts and leads are emerging before the

CBI. Money trails to different and new persons and entities

are emerging everyday and are in public domain. It is true that not every allegation of payment of

money in lieu of jobs and promises made, would ipso facto

be connected to recruitment scam being investigated by

the CBI. However, the possibility of the complaints in the

instant case having some or substantial nexus with the

jobs scam being investigated by the CBI cannot equally be

ruled out. This Court is, therefore, of the view that the CBI

may conduct a preliminary enquiry and submit a report 6 before this Court as to whether the allegations made by the

petitioners in their complaints which have matured into

FIR would have any nexus with the investigation that

already been conducted by them. For the said purpose the entire case diaries into the

subject FIRs registered by Contai P.S. and the chargesheet

no. 186 of 2022 shall be made available by the State police

to the CBI. The CBI may for the purpose of their enquiry

examine any person. The preliminary report of the CBI shall be

submitted before this Court 3 weeks hence when the

matter shall be taken up for further consideration. List the matter on May 1, 2023. All parties shall act on the server copy of this order

duly downloaded from the official website of this Court. (Rajasekhar Mantha, J.)