Devanahalli,
 Bengaluru - 560 300

 Appearance: 2. When the appeal came up for hearing, Learned Counsel for

the appellant submits that the appellant has not committed any

illegality as alleged. The entire allegation regarding non-bonafide

import is made based on the statement recorded from the

importer at the initial stage of investigations and later, the

importer admitted that the goods are brought by her by taking

assistance from others. Learned Counsel also drew our attention

to finding in impugned order related to release of goods by

importer Ms. Kajal Thakur, proprietress of M/s.K.T. Technologies.

Respondent, released the goods, which were found illegally

imported through co-notice on payment of duty and penalty on

11.01.2022 and proceedings against the importer Ms. Kajal

Thakur, proprietress of M/s. K.T. Technologies and others are

settled as per section 28(6)(i) of the Customs Act,1962. The

Learned Counsel further submits that though the appellant had

facilitated clearance of 6(six) consignments of M/s. K.T.

Technologies and they was subject to open examination before

clearance. Thereafter, alleging under valuation in the said Page 2 of 8 Customs Appeal No. 20767/2023

imports, the investigation was commenced. However, after

Adjudication, as per the impugned order the Adjudication

Authority, held that unfortunately, the investigation could not

find out any under valuation or misdeclaration related to the

6(six) CBEs. The Learned Counsel further reiterated in the

grounds of appeal and submits that the proceedings against the

appellant is illegal and unsustainable. Learned counsel also relied

on the following decisions in support of their submission. -2021(375) E.L.T.245 (Tri.-Bang.) 3. The Learned Authorised Representative (AR) for Revenue

reiterated the finding and drew our attention to the findings in

the impugned order and submits that there was a gross

mis-declaration in the classification, description, quantity, duty

etc., in the bills of entries filed for the said consignments which

were intercepted. The shipments were not only filed without

proper KYC verifications and authorization of the importer, but

were delivered to Mr. Elias, which is in total violation of the

extant legal provisions and the KYC norms. Learned AR further

submits that appellant has contravened the provisions of Page 3 of 8 Customs Appeal No. 20767/2023 Regulation 12(i) of Courier Import and Export (Electronic

Declaration and processing) Regulation, 2010. Learned AR

further submits that the appellant had filed the CBEs and had

facilitated the import of the shipments of M/s K. T. Technologies

in contravention of the Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic

Declaration and Processing) Regulations, 2010, which they are

duty bound to comply. Further, appellant has not fulfilled the

obligations under Regulation 12 of the Courier Imports and

Exports (Electronic Declaration and Processing) Regulations,

2010 and have also not fulfilled the commitments that they

undertook in the bonds executed by them when they were

issued license to operate as an Authorized Courier. They failed to

adhere to the Regulations and the terms and conditions of the

bond. Learned AR further submits that the bills of entry are filed

by a person not entitled to file electronic declarations, for

clearance of imported or export goods, as is required under Regulation 8 or Regulation 19 of the Customs brokers Licensing

Regulations, 2013 and not duly authorized under Section 146 of

Customs Act, 1962. Thus, appellant has contravened the

provisions of Regulation 12(ii) of Courier Imports and Exports

(Electronic Declaration and Processing) Regulations, 2010. 4. Heard both sides and perused the records. 5. We find that as regards penalty on the appellant under Section 117 of the Customs Act, 1962, it can be invoked only

where no express penalty is elsewhere provided for such Page 4 of 8 Customs Appeal No. 20767/2023

contravention or failure. However, in the present proceedings

penalty is proposed by invoking penal provisions under Regulation 14 of the Courier Import and Export (Electronic

Declaration and processing) Regulation, 2010. Thus, invoking

the penal provision under Section 117 of the Customs Act, 1962

is unsustainable. With regard to imposition of penalty on

appellant, omission/commission of the importer will not attract

penalty as they act in the capacity of a facilitator of the customs

transactions and they are duty bound to facilitate the authorized

clearance work of importer/exporter. Therefore, as the appellant

is only facilitating the customs transaction on behalf of principal,

(importer/exporter), the absence of mens-rea, penalty is not

imposable, otherwise all the customs transaction will come to

halt, if penalty is imposed on the customs broker the omission

/commission of exporter/importer. Moreover, in the impugned

order Adjudication Authority itself held that there is no illegality

revealed related to goods cleared through the appellant. 6. Regarding violation of the provisions of Courier Imports

and Exports (Electronic Declaration and processing) Regulations,

2010, as per the evidence available on the record, proceedings

initiated against the appellant is based on the initial statement

recorded from the importer Ms. Kajal Thakur, proprietress of

M/s. K.T. Technologies that she was not aware about the import;

that there existed no GSTIN or IEC in her name..etc. Also, she

denied any knowledge of clearing goods in the name of M/s K T

Technologies, which were subsequently seized by CIU. However, Page 5 of 8 Customs Appeal No. 20767/2023

as evident from the Paragraph 22 of the impugned order, same

Ms. Kajal Thakur, proprietress M/s K T Technologies vide her

letter dated 02.12.2021 claimed the ownership of the goods

seized and requested to release the shipment. It may be noted

that inspite of giving such finding, adjudication authority

accepted the request of Ms. Kajal Thakur made vide letter dated

02.12.2021 and 03.01.2022 and released the goods on payment

of duty and penalty on 11.01.2022. Thus, the allegation

regarding fraud on the Government using a dummy and bogus

importer is unsustainable. Regarding violation of the Regulation

12(i) of the Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration

and Processing) Regulations, 2010, said allegation is made on

the ground that the appellant has not received any authorization

for filing the courier bills of entry. However, while submitting

reply to show cause notice, appellant submits that the importer

is identified and appellant had caried out KYC verification such as

IEC and GST registration as per information provided by Mr. Ajit.

Moreover, the appellant produced Email communication as proof

of authorization and thereby complied with the KYC verification.

The absence of any provision which mandate receipt of KYC

directly by courier agency under section 146 of Customs

Act,1962, finding of violation of the Regulation 12(i) is

unsustainable. 7. Regarding violation of the Regulation 12(ii) of the Courier

Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and Processing)

Regulations, 2010, Shri I.S. Patil is a 'H' card holder of the Page 6 of 8 Customs Appeal No. 20767/2023

appellant and he is only carrying out co-ordination activities. The

bills of entry were filed by G Card holder Shri. V.V.Suresh, who

is an authorized person to file bill of entry as per section 146 of

Customs Act,1962. Thus, in the absence of any evidence

regarding filing of bill of entry by Shri. I. S. Patil and not 'G' Card

holder Shri. V. V. Suresh, violation of the Regulation 12(ii) is

unsustainable as held by the adjudicating authority. 8. As regards violation of the Regulation 12 (iv) & (vi) of the

Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and

Processing) Regulations, 2010, the adjudicating authority held

that the delivery address of the importer is in Delhi and

appellant has not verified the identity of the client by using

reliable, independent document. Considering the finding in ibid

paras, customs authority, who had initially made allegation that

the appellant assisted Shri M. Elias to commit fraud on the

Government using a dummy and bogus importer accepted the

letter of the importer and released the goods after adjudication

to the very same importer, cannot later turn around and

conclude that the import is made in the name of a bogus

importer. Moreover, even as per the allegation in the SCN, there

is no import of prohibited/restricted goods and there is no

allegation related to goods cleared by appellant. 9. Considering the above facts and circumstances of the

case, appeal is allowed by setting aside revocation of courier

license and enforcement of Bond and Bank guaranty executed in Page 7 of 8 Customs Appeal No. 20767/2023

connection with registration/license. Penalty imposed on the

appellant under Section 117 of the Customs Act, 1962 is set

aside. Penalty imposed on the appellant under Regulation 14 of

the Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and

Processing) Regulations, 2010 is also set aside. (Order Pronounced in Open court on 30.04.2024)

 (P.A.Augustian)

 Member (Judicial)

 (Pullela Nageswara Rao)

 Member (Technical)

Sasidhar... Page 8 of 8