This Petition has been filed for a declaration of the marriage solemnized on 22.01.1981 at Roman Catholic Church Thalayavattai Kanniyakumar District as null and void on the ground the same is vitiated by fraud or in the alternative for judicial separation on the grounds of desertion coupled with cruelty. 2. The averments in the petition is as follows:- 3. The gist and essence in the counter affidavit filed by the respondent is as follows: 4. After hearing the arguments on both sides, counsel and perused the materials available on records. The following issues were framed for trial: 5. The additional issues was framed as to whether the plaintiff is entitled to declare that the marriage solemnised on 22.1.1981 between the petitioner and the respondent is null and void on the ground that the same is vitiated by fraud. 6,	Additional Issue : On the side of the petitioner P.W.1 was examined and Exs.P1 to P11 were marked. On the respondent side, R.W.1 was examined and Exs.R.1 to R16 were marked. 7. During the pendency of the trial, the respondent/wife has preferred this application 1542 of 2008 for claiming monthly maintenance of Rs.10,000/- from the date of filing of O.M.S.No.50 of 1990 and claiming Rs.20,000/- being the litigation expenses. At present, the respondent is owning house and commercial property worth of Rs.1.5 Crore at Srinivasa Nagar, Padi, Chennai-50 (4 Commercial & Industrial shops, 6 houses) and about Rs.25 lakhs worth of house building and lands at Nadikavoo near Nagerkoil and also doing real estate and money lending business and is getting monthly income not less than Rs.40,000/- 8. It is an admitted fact that arranged marriage has been solemnized between the petitioner and the respondent at Roman Catholic Church, Thalayavattai Kanniyakumar District on 22.1.1981. Even though the plaintiff has filed this suit under Section 21 of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 for declaration of marriage between the petitioner and respondent as null and void on the ground the same is vitiated by fraud or in the alternative for judicial separation on the grounds of desertion coupled with cruelty. 9. Section 18 and 19 of the Indian Divorce Act is as follows: Nothing in this section shall affect the jurisdiction of the District Court to make decrees of nullity of marriage on the ground that the consent of either party was obtained by force or fraud." 10. But It is contented by the learned counsel for the petitioner that during the trial only he came to know that the respondent/wife has played fraud and obtained consent for marriage since she has not attained puberty. She is not capable of performing conjugality. Hence, she has wantonly suppressed the same and marriage has been performed and fraud has been played by this respondent. Hence the marriage is vitiated by fraud. It is pertinent to note that it is the duty of the petitioner to plead the fraud and prove the same. It is appropriate to incorporate Order VI Rule 4 of CPC . It is as follows: 11. It is pertinent to note that the petitioner has not averred anything about the fraud alleged to be committed by this respondent/wife for obtaining consent from this petitioner. He has merely amended the prayer column. It is pertinent to note that the petition to amend the plaint has been filed which has been dismissed. Against that he has preferred an appeal in that only amendment has been allowed. On that basis the amendment has been carried out. Even for that he has not pleaded. As per Order 6 Rule 4 of CPC fraud is to be pleaded by the person and proved by the person who pleaded. But the petitioner has not pleaded. 12. In the above said circumstances, the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the marriage between the petitioner and respondent as null and void on the ground the same is vitiated by fraud is unacceptable one. 13. Learned counsel for the respondent has raised a plea that this Court has no jurisdiction to entertain this suit. At this juncture, the learned counsel for the petitioner would rely upon the decisions reported in AIR 1978 KARNATAKA 69 ( A.JAYARAJ V. M. FLORENCE ) wherein it is held as follows: (ii) Further he relied on the decision reported in AIR 1993 BOMBAY 61 wherein it is held that "Both District Court and High Court have concurrent jurisdiction" 14. Learned counsel for the respondent would contend that the application has been filed belatedly stating that the respondent/wife is concealing something and prayed fraud and obtained consent for the marriage. So the marriage itself is void. The marriage has taken place on 22.1.1981. He filed application in 1998. Therefore there is a delay. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner has relied upon the decision reported in 1(2001) DMC 640 (SC) (D.BALAKRISHNAN V.PAVALAMANI) and urged that in the matrimonial matter there is no limitation and "annulment of marriage: Non-consummation of marriage due to impotency: petition filed 10 years after marriage:petition cannot be held barred by limitation". 15. It is true in matrimonial matter, there is no limitation. But however, this citation is not applicable to the facts of the case because the marriage has been consummated that admittedly the petitioner/P.W.1 himself has taken the respondent/wife to hospital and took treatment to begot child. As per the documents filed by him and oral testimony of both the parties P.W.1 and R.W.1 corroborated the same. In the above said circumstances the above citation is not applicable. 16. Learned counsel for the petitioner relied upon the following decision in support of his contention that the marriage between the petitioner and respondent as null and void: II (1998) DMC 357 (DB) ( Bindu Sharma Vs. Ram Prakash Sharma "10. From the evidence of the parties and in the facts and circumstances of the case, it is established that respondent No.1 had made false statements to the petitioner that he was employed on monthly salary of Rs.1,700/- in the Sugar Factory and he induced the petitioner to give assent for marriage on the basis that mis-representation and, therefore, the petition for annulment of marriage has to be decreed." AIR 1992 KERALA 176 ( P.J. Moore Vs. Valsa
	"One of the sublime objects of married life is to have offsprings. This is not merely a traditional view, but an established truth which transcends ages and has universal acceptance. Motherhood is one of the cravings of a normal woman. No authority need be cited to support this philosophy. Parties enter into marriage alliance on the assumption that they would become father and mother in due course of time. If a person became incapable of procreation through act of man such as a surgery, he is under a basic duty to disclose that fact to the other party who wishes to join him in the wed-lock. Non-disclosure of this vital information which goes to the root of the married life amounts to fraud in matrimonial relationship. Consent, given by one spouse without knowledge of this basic defect in the other spouse, stands vitiated and tainted. It is open to the affected spouse to petition that his or her consent was wangled by fraud." 2001 (1) Civ.C.R. 826 (Mad) D.Balakrishnan Vs. Pavalamani
	"10. In the light of the medical evidence as seen from C.Ws.1 and 2 and Exs. C.1 and C.2 it is proved beyond doubt that the appellant/husband is impotent. We have already stated that in the petition the wife has claimed for nullity of marriage or in the alternative for divorce on the ground of non-consummation of marriage. The learned Family Court Judge in para 15 after holding that, inasmuch as the marriage was celebrated on 10.06.1982 and the wife has filed the present petition for divorce only on 11.07.1992, i.e., 10 years after the marriage, came to a conclusion that nullity of marriage cannot be awarded as it is barred by the provisions of the Act. After saying so, inasmuch as she had proved her case that the marriage is not consummated and as per expert evidence she continued to be virgin and her husband is impotent, granted a decree for divorce." AIR 1982 ORISSA 37 Ranjuk Ranjan Das VS. Smt.Pranati Kumari Behera 
	"In so far as dissolution of marriage and nullity of marriage on the specific grounds stated in S.19 are concerned both the District Court and the High Court have concurrent jurisdiction and when the case is one for declaration of nullity of marriage on the ground of force or fraud the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Court is saved." Per contra the learned counsel for the respondent would rely upon the following decisions: The learned counsel also relied upon a decision reported in S.M.Ispahani and another v. Harrington House School by its Hon. Secretary, No.21, Dr.Thirumurthy Nagar Main Road, Nungambakkam, Madras-34, 2000(I) CTC 634 and submits that in the absence of proper pleading, the Court has a power to decree which would be warranted by facts established by records even if there is no pleading to that effect. In that decision, it is held as follows: 22.	It is well settled principle of law that the Court has empowered to grant lessor relief on the basis of pleading and evidence before the court to meet out the ends of justice to the parties to the litigation. But keeping it that in mind, while considering the evidence and pleading, the petitioner/plaintiff has filed a suit for dissolution of marriage on the ground of desertion and cruelty and alternatively for judicial separation. After P.W.1 was examined, he has amended the prayer for decree of nullity of marriage stating that the respondent is impotent, not attained puberty and she is not capable of begot child. Hence the marriage is void. 23.	The learned counsel for the petitioner would focus mainly upon the argument that RW.1 wife is so far not conceived as she is having poly cystic ovary and she also underwent a surgery. At this juncture, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent would contend that the Medical Report filed by the petitioner has not been an admissible evidence, since the author of the document was not before the Court. He also relied upon the decision reported in Municipal Corporation of City of Ahmedabad, v. Gandhi Shantilal Girdharlal and another , AIR 1961 Gujarat 196 and Bommidala Poornaish v. The Union of India , AIR 1967 Andhra Pradesh 338. 24.	It is true that if the Court wants to rely upon the opinion of the expert, the expert/author of the document to be examined. Because he would be subjected to cross-examination by the other side. Here he has not examined anyone of the doctors to prove the opinion. At this juncture, the learned counsel for the petitioner would contend that most of the documents are only a prescription and discharge report. To prove that, he has given proper treatment for his wife and given a treatment from 1981 to till she left the matrimonial home in 1995 due to his affection towards his wife. But she is not able to begot child as she is having follicies and the same was mentioned in the Medical Report as follows: It is true that she has not give birth to a child. So, the decision relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner in Jagannath Mudali v. Nirupama Behera, 2009(1) Civ.C.R.37 (Ori.) that a wife who is not fit to have sex or beget child would be a very just and reasonable ground on the part of a husband to refuse to live with wife on such ground, the marriage of the parties declared null and void. In that decision, it is held as follows: But here after marriage she has taken treatment from Dr.Joseph and Dr.Kamala Selvaraj for having begot child. In such circumstances, the marriage has been consummated. Therefore, the decision relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner that she is not fit to have sex or begot child would be an unacceptable one. He also relied upon the decision reported in Geeta Devi Vs. Harish Kumar @ Purshottam and others , II (1996) DMC 551 in which it is held as follows: In this case both the petitioner and the respondent are living together as husband and wife and she has taken treatment for begot child. Therefore, the above stand is not applicable. 25.	Now the learned counsel mainly focussing upon his argument to the effect that the respondent was subjected to cruelty since she has not begot child and she has stolen a child from the G.G. Hospital stating that as if she given birth to a child and she created a document which is marked as Ex.P.1 as if Dr.Kamala Selvaraj has sent a letter to her in respect of her pregnancy. All these documents have concocted one. At this juncture, he relied upon two decisions reported in Kalaimani and another v. Chinnapaiyan @ Perumal Gounder , (2005) 1 MLJ 54 and T.P.Mani and another vs. Krishnan, 2007-3-L.W.196. In Kalaimani and another v. Chinnapaiyan @ Perumal Gounder , (2005) 1 MLJ 54, it is held as follows: and in T.P.Mani and another vs. Krishnan, 2007-3-L.W.196, it is held as follows: As per Section 73 of the Indian Evidence Act, the Court has every power to compare the writing of signature. There is no quarrel over the proposition laid down and especially, this document Ex.P.1 will not help to the case of the petitioner. 26.	The learned counsel would contend that the petitioner has stolen a female baby from the G.G. Hospital stating that as if she has given birth to a child and this fact has been denied by R.W.1. Per contra, R.W.1 in her evidence stated that since her husband wants to adopt a child and a lady staff working at G.G. Hospital is having a female child, wants to hand over the same to her and she brought the child to her home and after seeing the child, the petitioner refused to take the child in adoption since the child was dark and female. It is stated in her cross-examination as follows: Therefore, she denied the averement made by the petitioner. So the story narrated by the petitioner that the respondent has stolen a female baby from the G.G. Hospital is unacceptable one. 27.	The learned counsel for the respondent would contend that she has given a complaint against her husband/the petitioner herein and others. She has also made character assassination against him which defame his reputation before the society. Consequently, he lost reputation in the society and it amounts to cruelty. He also relied upon the decision reported in G.V.N.Kameswara Rao Vs. G.J.Billi , (2002) 2 Supreme Court Cases 296, it which it is held as follows: 28.	At this juncture, while perusing the evidence of P.W.1, it is seen that the petitioner has denied the suggestion that he attempted to evict the respondent and driven her away from the portion by engaging goondas on 7.7.2004. It is not correct to say that the respondent has given complaint to the police, but no action was taken in this regard. It is stated as follows in the evidence of P.W.1 : At this juncture, it is pertinent to note that he is gone to the extent of saying that he is having three children through one Selin. He has deposed as follows: It shows that the petitioner is having illicit intimacy with one Selin. Hence he has driven out his wife from the matrimonial house. 29.	At this juncture, it is appropriate on the part of the court to consider the evidence of R.W.1. R.W.1 in his evidence has made allegation of character assassination against this petitioner. In his cross-examination, she has stated that she has given a complaint against the petitioner stating that he had some illicit intimacy with one Mini, daughter of a teacher. In that complaint, she has also stated that the petitioner had illicit intimacy with one Dasammal and also having illicit intimacy with one Selin and he had such intimacy after sending her to her native place and he subsequently married her. That complaint has been marked as Ex.R.7. It is true that she has also filed a Criminal Original Petition Ex.R.8 seeking direction against the respondent to provide necessary protection for her peaceful living in the house. It is true that the cruelty includes mental as well as physical cruelty. It depends upon each and every person who met out in a matrimonial matter. The cruelty will be weighed on the facts and circumstances of each case. 30.	Considering the situation that since the respondent was driven out from the matrimonial home and the petitioner is having illicit intimacy with one Selin and given birth of three children and when she returned back, she was driven out from the house where she was put up, she filed Criminal Original Petition seeking direction not to harass by the respondent. Considering the fact that merely giving a police complaint would not amount to mental cruelty, the respondent has driven out from the matrimonial home and since the petitioner had an illegal intimacy with a maid and given birth of three children and now he wants to recognize the status of that maid Selin, he has come forward with this divorce petition. In the above said circumstances, I am of the opinion that the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner was subjected to mental cruelty is an unacceptable one and it is not a ground for divorce. 31.	The learned counsel for the petitioner also relied upon a decision reported in Dr.Gopal Ramanathan vs. Jayashree, 2008-3-L.W.864 since the above said decision deals with difference of opinion between both the parties. But here as per the decision reported in Supreme Court merely because the marriage is irrefutable protection, had been the petitioner is not entitled for divorce. Because, the plaintiff/respondent has not begot child and as he had an illegal intimacy with one Selin and given birth to three children, he wanted to lead a happy successful life, he driven out his wife and now he is living with Selin and three children and sought for divorce. So, I am of the opinion that mere irrefutable protection arising out of marriage is not a reason for divorce as per the rulings of the Apex Court. 32.	Another ground raised by the petitioner is that he is entitled for divorce on the ground of desertion. While considering the evidence of R.W.1, it is stated that she was driven out by the petitioner to her native place and then he is living with Selin and three children. When she returned back, he was not permitted by the petitioner to enter into the matrimonial home and she is living in a separate house owned by the petitioner herein and he is taking steps to drive her out. While dissolution is defined in Section 10 , but there must be an animus on the part of the person deserting house to dissolve the marriage. Section 10 is extracted here under : Here there is no evidence before this Court to show that the respondent has deserted the petitioner with an animus to dissolve the marriage, severe the marital tie, she left the matrimonial home and residing out of the matrimonial home. Per contra, the petitioner has himself driven out his wife from the matrimonial home and not permitted after she returned from her native place. She has not permitted to enter the matrimonial home and he sought for divorce on the ground of desertion. The wrong doer cannot seek remedy for his own wrong. 33.	In the original petition, he sought for the following reliefs: 34.	 Even though the petitioner/plaintiff has filed an application for dissolution of marriage on the ground of desertion and cruelty, after amendment he has not prayed for dissolution of marriage on the ground of desertion and cruelty. In the above said circumstances, he is not entitled for the relief of divorce on the ground of desertion and cruelty. The Additional Issue Nos.1 and 2 are answered accordingly. 35.	It is pertinent to note that both the petitioner and the respondent have brought to my knowledge that an application in A.No.5047 of 2008 is pending for awarding maintenance during the pendency of the suit. It is true that the respondent wife is residing at the house belonging to the petitioner/husband. He is doing real estate business and as per his evidence, he is owning four residential portions and three shops in his house at Srinivasa Nagar at Padi and there is a small house plot in the same Srinivasa Nagar. He also owned 38 cents of land in Thiruninravoor and Door No.18, Srinivasa Nagar is also belonging to him. In such circumstances, it is the case of the respondent that he is doing Real Estate Business after he has got voluntary retirement from the Madras Motor Company near Tiruvallur. So, considering the financial status of the respondent, since the respondent wife is residing in the petitioner's house, she is entitled for maintenance only for food, cloth and medical expenses. As per law, she is entitled to reside in her husband' property/petitioner's property and even to-day, she is residing in the house of the petitioner. So, she is entitled for residence till her life time in the property of the petitioner. Apart from that, considering the financial status of the petitioner, the respondent is entitled for Rs.5,000/- per month towards maintenance from the petitioner from the date of the petition. 36.	In fine, the suit is dismissed and the respondent-wife is entitled for maintenance of Rs.5,000/- per month from the petitioner from the date of the petition. She is also entitled for the right of residence in the petitioner's property till her life time. No cost. kua/tsi