?If There’s One Story To Read Today

Back in September 2022, India’s central bank issued digital lending guidelines amidst a sharp raise in consumer complaints against predatory loan apps. In more than a few instances, the borrower was driven to commit suicide due to exorbitant interest and unethical recovery tactics. The guidelines were aimed at improving consumer protection and increasing data protection, among other things.

But as with many other regulations, the digital lending guidelines raised many questions, especially on who and what all fall under its ambit.

Almost five months after issuing the guidelines, RBI has come out with much-needed clarifications for some of the provisions. Well, it’s better late than never.

While the clarifications touch on a lot of topics, an important one is that payment aggregators can rest easy as they are allowed to facilitate loan disbursement and repayments. [ Read , 6 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

What does the future hold for internet, broadcast, and telecom regulation? Find out at the MediaNama discussion in Delhi on February 24. We’ll also discuss issues related to Same Service Same Rules, Quality of service requirements for online services, competition concerns highlighted by the TRAI, and definition of telecommunication services.

MediaNama subscribers can attend this event virtually too!

Click here to know more. Register now!

Authorised personnel only: You no longer have to play guessing games or rely on source based reports to find out who does and doesn’t have RBI’s approval for operating as a payment aggregator. The central bank has released a list of 139 entities who applied for authorisation and the current status of these entities. The list will also be updated every 15 days. But who is a payment aggregator, why do they need authorisation, and which companies want to be PAs. For answers to all this and more, check out our detailed story. [ Read ?, 4 minutes]

Work in progress : The Indian government is trying to digitise one of the country’s largest rural employment schemes. Think: using Aadhaar to hand out wages or an app to mark “daily attendance”. Labour groups aren’t happy—the government’s push for digitisation leads to delayed and denied wages, they say. Amidst the PR blitz for digital governance, who benefits from it in the long run? [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

Leave em kids alone! Bearing down on Diksha’s misuse of students’ and teachers’ data, the Internet Freedom Foundation has now called it out to the NCPCR, asking the child rights body to take action against the app’s failure to protect children’s privacy. In an open letter, the rights group cited multiple reports calling out Diksha’s failings and referred to GDPR and U.S. provisions that may be introduced in India. [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

Promoting digital connectivity infrastructure: India’s telecom regulator is quite busy these days churning out consultation papers at breakneck speed. Its latest deals with a licensing framework for Digital Connectivity Infrastructure providers (DCIP) because the country needs to ensure that communications infrastructure so there is a conducive environment for market growth. [ Read , 8 minutes]

Nuisance called spam: It is a sad state of affairs when you receive more calls in a day from spammers than your friends and family as is evident from a survey done by LocalCircles recently. It is telling that the menace of spam continues to terrorise more than 66 percent of Indians despite the existence of measures floated by TRAI. [ Read ?, 3 minutes]

Judge a book by its cover: Despite the actual saying asking you not to, I’m sure many of us judge things by their appearance. Taking note of this, quick commerce app is letting brands design their owns micro stores within the app to reflect on the design language of the brand. A win-win for brands that want reach and flexibility. [ Read ?, 2 minutes]

The right(s) way : The UN is prepping guidelines on platform regulation. It hopes they’ll help guide countries and companies struggling to regulate the Internet. The Internet Freedom Foundation seems to have given them a thumbs up for the most part—underscoring that the framework needs to match up to international human rights standards. We round up seven highlights from the advocacy group’s response. [ Read ?, 5 minutes]

You.com takes aim at Google and Microsoft with multimodal chat search [Read] (Ron Miller/ Tech Crunch)

Binance Bracing Itself for Fines From US Regulators to Settle ‘Past Conduct’: WSJ [Read] (Cheyenne Ligon/ Coindesk)

Sundar Pichai pushes Googlers to spend more time improving its Bard AI [Read] (BS Web Team/ Business Standard)

Health info for 1 million patients stolen using critical GoAnywhere vulnerability [Read] (Dan Goodin/ Ars Technica)

PayPal tells Australia it supports buy-now-pay-later regulation [Read] (Byron Kaye/ Reuters)

Solaris Setback Spells Trouble For European Fintech Scene [Read] (Meaghan Johnson/ Forbes)

Oakland Declares State of Emergency Due to Ransomware Attack [Read] (Katy St. Clair and Keith Burbank / NBC Bay Area)

Revealed: the hacking and disinformation team meddling in elections [Read] (Stephanie Kirchgaessner, Manisha Ganguly, David Pegg, Carole Cadwalladr and Jason Burke/ The Guardian)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event