1. The instant petition has been filed on behalf of the petitioner seeking grant of

 anticipatory bail in respect of aforementioned FIR. 2. The FIR was lodged at the instance of Gursharan Singh Gogia, wherein it is

 stated that he knows one Ranjit Singh since the last 10-12 years. About 2

 months back, he received a call from said Ranjit Singh and who later came to

 meet him alongwith Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh on 11.10.2023 at his

 house in Khanna and requested him to introduce them to M.K. (Lala), who

 was residing in Khanna. Said Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh proclaimed Pankaj Kakkar 2024.08.02 16:18 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M-37110-2024 (O&M) (2)

 that they have a drug for curing cancer, which is very expensive and that said

 M.K. @ Mursalin has a customer for the same. Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet

 Singh passed on a telephone number of M.K. @ Mursalin to the complainant.

 The complainant called M.K. @ Mursalin telephonically and arranged for a

 meeting. When M.K. @ Mursalin came to meet the complainant, he told the

 complainant that he has a potential customer for the cancer drug and that on

 an earlier occasion he had earned a profit of Rs.1.5 crores by selling the same

 and thus, allured the complainant to get associated with him. On 14.10.2023,

 Ranjit Singh @ Malwai, Harpreet Singh and M.K. @ Mursalin met the

 complainant at Sahil Hotel, Sirhind and told the complainant that Harpreet

 Singh and his other associates have dragon, which is used for treatment of

 cancer and that M.K. @ Mursalin knows a pharmaceutical company

 interested in purchasing the same. It is further alleged that on 16.10.2023,

 M.K. @ Mursalin came alongwith a purchaser party and took the

 complainant alongwith them towards Kalesar forest where Harpreet Singh

 and Ranjit Singh were present and who showed the animal to the purchaser,

 who had come from Delhi. M.K. @ Mursalin agreed to purchase the dragon

 from Harpreet Singh for Rs.5.70 crores and stuck a deal with the purchaser

 for Rs.8.85 crores. The complainant was impressed with the huge amount

 projected as profit. However, the deal could not materialize, as M.K. @

 Mursalin was falling short of some amount. M.K. @ Mursalin allured the

 complainant to invest money by representing that they could earn a profit of

 Rs.3 crores by arranging the deficit payment. It is alleged that the said person,

 thus, induced the complainant to become their partner and on 18.10.2023, the

 complainant alongwith his father Sohan Singh went to the accused alongwith

 an amount of Rs.1.80 crores out of which 1.60 crores was handed over to Pankaj Kakkar 2024.08.02 16:18 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M-37110-2024 (O&M) (3)

 them near Zirakpur and from there, they proceeded to Kalesar, where the

 complainant was made to sign on certain documents on the pretext that an

 agreement is required to be executed. Later, the complainant was dropped at

 Saha. When the complainant demanded his share of profit, the accused kept

 on dillydallying the matter and later started threatening him to cause loss to

 his life as well as of other members of his family. The complainant, thus,

 alleged that he had been defrauded. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has been falsely

 implicated in the present case and that as a matter of fact it is a case of some

 financial transactions between the parties, wherein some compromise had

 also been effected earlier. Learned counsel further submitted that, in any case,

 there is no evidence as regards passing of the amount in question. 4. Opposing the petition, learned State counsel submitted that the petitioner is

 part & parcel of the entire scam and otherwise also stands involved in several

 other cases indicating that he is a seasoned criminal. It has been submitted

 that the name of the petitioner specifically figures in the FIR and as such,

 having regard to the nature of allegations and the amount alleged to be

 defrauded, his custodial interrogation would be required. 5. This Court has considered rival submissions addressed before this Court 6. The allegations pertain to defrauding the complainant of huge amount. The

 petitioner is specifically named in the FIR and that specific allegations have

 been levelled therein. It is a case where all the accused induced the

 complainant to believe that they were actually into the business of selling a

 'dragon' said to be helpful in treating cancer. While some of the accused have

 acted as sellers of the 'dragon' having medicinal properties, some other Pankaj Kakkar 2024.08.02 16:18 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M-37110-2024 (O&M) (4)

 accused projected themselves as prospective customers. The petitioner was

 actively associated with all the co-accused. The petitioner has a chequered

 history having been involved in other cases as well. As such, his custodial

 interrogation would certainly be required to unearth all the finer details of

 entire scam. No special case for grant of anticipatory bail is made out. 7. The petition is sans merit and is hereby dismissed.