SUIT UNDER ORDER XXXVII R/W SECTION 151 CPC RECOVERY OF
 RS.4,00,000/- 1. The present suit is filed u/ Order 37 CPC by the plaintiff praying for
recovery of Rs.4 lakhs against the defendant submitting that plaintiff is a
businessman and doing the business of sale, purchase of the automobiles
and also doing the sale of car accessories in the premises no. 15/10171,
Sunder Plaza Building, Abdul Aziz Road, Karol Bagh, New Delhi-110005.
The elder brother of the plaintiff and father of the plaintiff are also doing
business in the same vicinity. It is submitted that defendant is known to
the father of the plaintiff. The defendant is also having his business of
clothes in the vicinity of Karol Bagh and claims to be an exporter of
readymade garments. It is submitted that defendant visits the business
premises of the plaintiff and as such the plaintiff came in contact of the
defendant. It is submitted that in the first week of January 2013 defendant
requested to the father of the plaintiff to give him loan of Rs.4 lakhs for his
urgent business needs for a short period of two months only. It is
submitted that on the request of defendant and direction of his father
plaintiff delivered a sum of Rs.4 lakhs to the defendant. In confirmation of
his liability and to make payment of the amount of Rs.4 lakhs the
defendant issued a post dated cheque dated 01.03.2013 for a sum of
Rs.4 lakhs bearing cheque no. 654766 drawn on Bank of India, Karol
Bagh branch, New Delhi in favour of plaintiff and assured that he will have
sufficient funds on 01.03.2013. 2. It is submitted that the plaintiff in the first week of March 2013 called
upon the defendant and reminded him that he was going to deposit the
cheque and as requested by the defendant the plaintiff deposited the
 cheque in his bank on 15.03.2013 and also on 06.05.2013. However the
plaintiff was informed by his bankers that the defendant has closed his
account with his bankers even before. Thus, defendant is also guilty of
committing fraud and cheating committed against the plaintiff. The plaintiff
got served the defendant with regd. AD notice/Courier notice dated
25.05.2013 through his counsel but inspite of service he has not paid the
amount of Rs.4 lakhs and as such defendant is guilty of committing an
offence under the provisions of Section 138 r/w Section 141 of N.I. Act
also. Accordingly, plaintiff had prayed for the decree of Rs.4 lakhs with
costs of the suit. Plaintiff has also claimed future interest @ 18% p.a from
the date of filing of the suit till realization of the same. Accordingly the
plaintiff has prayed for decree of his suit. 3. Proceedings during the course of the day are as under: 4. Parties heard and record perused. 5. Since the defendant has failed to deposit the admitted amount due to
 him having effect that the leave to defend is not granted to the defendant
 in terms of second proviso to Sub-Clause (5) of Rule 3 of Order 37 CPC and in terms of Sub-Clause (b) of Clause (6) of Rule 3 of Order 37 CPC the plaintiff is held entitled for judgment. 6. Accordingly, suit of the plaintiff is decreed for a sum of Rs.4,00,000/-
 u/ Order 37 CPC . Interest is allowed to the plaintiff @ 4% p.a. from the date
 of filing of the suit till the realization of the suit amount keeping in view the
 fact that the loan was given due to personal relation between the parties
 which was not a business transaction and keeping in view the current low
 rate of interest in the market which is nearing around 8% p.a for long term
 deposit. The suit is decreed alongwith cost of the suit. Accordingly, suit of
 the plaintiff is decreed. Decree sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to the record room. Announced in the open Court
on 29th January 2018
 (JOGINDER PRAKASH NAHAR)
 ADDL. DISTRICT JUDGE-04
 CENTRAL/TIS HAZARI COURT/DELHI