1.	Through this writ petition a challenge has been made to the award dated 22.08.2016, published on 05.09.2016, by the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (CGIT) cum Labour Court, Kanpur exercising power under Section 11A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter called as "Act of 1947") modifying punishment of dismissal to that of compulsory retirement with superannuation benefits. 2.	Facts, giving rise to the present petition, are that respondent No.2 late R.P.Singh was appointed as a Clerk on 11.01.1971 in Central Bank of India. He was promoted to the post of Special Assistant in the year 1992 with retrospective effect since 1987. While posted as Special Assistant at Extension Counter of main branch, Aligarh at Kshetriya Shri Gandhi Ashram (KSGA), Aligarh during the period October, 2003 to February, 2004, some misconduct was committed by him. He was put under suspension on 17.02.2004. A charge sheet was served on 16.03.2004 alleging ten charges against him, which are as under : 3.	A reply was filed to the said charges, after which an inquiry was conducted. The disciplinary authority passed order of dismissal under Regulation 6(a) of Memorandum of Settlement of Disciplinary Action, Procedure for Workmen dated 10.04.2002 dismissing the petitioner from service on 20.10.2005. The order was challenged before the Appellate Authority who confirmed the same vide order dated 09.01.2006. The order of dismissal as well as appellate order were challenged before the writ Court through Writ Petition No.7726 of 2006 which was dismissed vide order dated 16.02.2006. Against the said order, Special Appeal No.251 of 2006 was preferred which was dismissed on 27.03.2006. 4.	Thereafter, respondent No.2 raised an industrial dispute and the matter referred to CGIT cum Labour Court, Kanpur, which was registered as Industrial Dispute No.24 of 2007. The dispute referred to the Tribunal for adjudication was,
 
"Whether the action of the management of Central Bank of India, Regional Office, Agra dismissing Sri R.P. Singh son of Late Sri Kalyan Singh from the bank services vide orer dated 20.10.05 of disciplinary authority and confirming the same by appellate authority vide order dated 09.01.06 is legal and fair? If not what relief the workman concerned is entitled?" 5.	CGIT, vide order impugned, made an award modifying the punishment of dismissal from service to that of compulsory retirement from service with superannuation benefits. Hence the present writ petition. 6.	Sri Vishnu Pratap, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner-Bank submitted that charges against respondent No.2 were grave and serious and stood proved in the disciplinary proceedings, which stood affirmed by the order of Appellate Authority. Both the orders of disciplinary as well as appellate authorities were subject matter of challenge before this Court in writ petition and special appeal. This Court found that inquiry conducted was fair and charges do not appear to be moon shine and, therefore, no interference was required. 7.	According to counsel for the Bank, once the charges stood proved and it was held that inquiry conducted was fair, the Tribunal, while exercising power under Section 11A of Act of 1947 could not have modified the order of dismissal on the basis of new material on record as proviso clearly prohibits for the same. Moreover, no reason has been assigned by the Tribunal in modifying the punishment from dismissal to compulsory retirement with superannuation benefits except comparing the punishment awarded to the co-delinquent Surendra Kumar against whom charges were not grave and serious. 8.	Reliance has been placed upon a decision of Apex Court in State Bank of India vs. Tarun Kumar Banerjee and others 2000 (4) A.W.C. 3304 (S.C.) : (2000) 8 SCC 12 (Para 3), which is extracted hereasunder : 9.	According to learned counsel, Tribunal has no jurisdiction to sit in judgment over the decision of employer as an appellate body and the interference with the decision will only be justified in case the finding is arrived that inquiry was perverse or management is guilty of victimization, unfair labour practice or mala fides. The Tribunal can take into evidence the documents placed before it for the first time only when no enquiry has been held or the inquiry held by the employer is found defective. 10.	Reliance has also been placed upon a decision of Apex Court in Tripura Gramin Bank and others vs. Tarit Baran Roy and another 2001 (2) AWC 1125 (SC) and judgment of Andhra Pradesh High Court in Harinarayn Seet vs. Andhra Bank 2022 LiveLaw (AP) 125. 11.	Sri Indra Mani Tripathi, learned counsel appearing for legal heirs of respondent No.2 submitted that respondent No.2 was placed at the Extension Counter and Surendra Kumar, the other delinquent employee, who was at the main branch, had sent the advise to the Extension Counter after passing FSCM(s) and on the basis of the same, worker had no authority to further verify the same except giving credit of the amount of cheque. According to him, both respondent No.2 as well as Surendra Kumar were collectively responsible for loss of Rs.7.90 lakhs while in the disciplinary proceedings initiated against Surendra Kumar, the disciplinary authority has proposed punishment of discharge from service but later on, in the final order passed by the disciplinary authority, punishment of reduction by two stages in time scale of pay for a period of five years was awarded. 12.	According to counsel for respondent No.2, once it was found that it was a collective mistake of both respondent No.2 and Surendra Kumar and the punishment awarded was different, the Tribunal, finding the punishment awarded to respondent No.2 being disproportionate to the gravity of charges, reduced the same from dismissal to compulsory retirement with superannuation benefits. Reliance has been placed upon a Full Bench judgment of Rajasthan High Court in Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation vs. Gopal Singh 1998(2) SCT 277; decision of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh High Court in Depot Manager, TSRTC vs. Mohd. Fakruddin and other 2017(155) FLR 263; decisions of Apex Court in Management of Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd. Bangalore vs. Mohd. Usman and another 1984 AIR (SC) 321 and Jitendra Singh Rathor vs. Shri Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Ltd. and another 1984 AIR (SC) 976. 13.	I have heard the respective counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 14.	The short question engaging attention of the Court is, as to the power of CGIT-cum-Labour Court under Section 11A of Act of 1947 in modifying the punishment of dismissal to that of compulsory retirement with superannuation benefits in the facts of the case. 15.	It is an admitted case that respondent No.2 was an employee of the Bank. He was posted at the Extension Counter of the main branch at KSGA, Aligarh during the period October, 2003 to February, 2004. It is during this period that respondent No.2 had opened current account No.176 of M/s Rajesh & Company and also HSS Account No.3825 of Rajesh Kishore. It is during this period that three cheques of Rs.1,60,000/- deposited on 14.10.2003; Rs.3,10,000/- deposited on 04.12.2003; and Rs.3,20,000/- deposited on 11.12.2003 were forwarded for collection to branch office Panchkula, Chandigarh. An amount of Rs.7,90,000/- was withdrawn. Surendra Kumar, who was posted at branch office Panchkula, had cleared these three cheques without tallying the signatures. When the matter came into light, respondent No.2 was posted as Special Assistant at Regional Office Agra, firstly, he was suspended and thereafter a charge sheet containing ten charges were given to him. On 28.09.2004, the charge sheet was also issued to Surendra Kumar containing one charge, which is as under : The signatures of the officials of B/o Panchkula on the above FSCMs are not tallying with their signatures those given in specimen signature album. Mr. Surendra Kumar has passed the credit voucher of FSCM No. 23792 for Rs.3,10,000/- but not passed the manifold with obvious intention. Mr. Surendra Kumar has also not ensured the 2nd signature (counter signature) on all the aforesaid manifolds as per bank's rules. Later on B/o Panchkula has disowned the manifolds and therefore bank has suffered a loss of Rs.7,90,000/- due to negligence of Mr. Surendra Kumar. Thus Mr. Surendra Kumar is charged with gross misconduct for the above acts under para 5(j) of Memorandum of settlement on Disciplinary Action Procedure for Workmen Dt. 10.04.2002." 16.	During the enquiry, charges stood proved against respondent No.2 and the disciplinary authority recommended for dismissal which was approved and the order of dismissal was passed on 20.10.2005, which was affirmed by the Appellate Authority on 09.01.2006. The Division Bench of this Court in Special Appeal No.251 of 2006 declined to interfere in the matter and found that the enquiry was conducted fairly and charges so proved did not require any interference. 17.	The Labour Tribunal also while passing the order impugned had recorded a clear finding to the effect that there was no discrepancy in the enquiry as held against the worker which was done in fair and proper manner and the enquiry officer had rightly arrived at the conclusion. The Labour Tribunal further found charges proved against worker. It is only in the light of the punishment awarded to other co-delinquent Surendra Kumar that the Labour Tribunal proceeded to exercise power under Section 11A and modified the punishment. 18.	The question, which arises for consideration by this Court is to the scope and power of Labour Tribunal to interfere in the punishment awarded by the disciplinary authority and modify the same having been confirmed by the Division Bench of this Court when no illegality, perversity, victimization or unfair labour practice has been found or recorded against the employer/petitioner. 19.	Proviso to Section 11A of Act of 1947 clearly restricts the power of Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal in admitting additional evidence or material, while invoking power under Section 11A and the entire scope of Labour Court rest on the material on record. The satisfaction which a Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal is to record while modifying the order of discharge or dismissal is only on the basis of material on record and no external aid can be taken. 20. In Chairman and Managing Director, United Commercial Bank and others vs. P.C.Kakkar (2003) 4 SCC 364, the Apex Court held that Court should not interfere with administrative decision unless it is illogical or suffers from procedural impropriety. The punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority or appellate authority shocks the conscience of the Court/Tribunal then only the order can be interfered. Relevant paras 11, 12 and 13 of the judgment are extracted hereas under : 21.	The Court further held that a bank officer is required to exercise higher standards of honesty and integrity. He deals with money of depositors and the customers. Every officer/employee of the bank is required to take all possible steps to protect the interests of the bank and to discharge his duties with utmost integrity, honesty, devotion and diligence and to do nothing which is unbecoming of a bank officer. 22. In Canara Bank vs. V.K.Awasthy (2005) 6 SCC 321, the Apex Court while dealing with scope of interference with quantum of punishment held that such interference cannot be a routine matter and held as under : 32. Finally, we come to the present case. It is not contended before us that any fundamental freedom is affected. We need not therefore go into the question of 'proportionality'. There is no contention that the punishment imposed is illegal or vitiated by procedural impropriety. As to 'irrationality', there is no finding by the Tribunal that the decision is one which no sensible person who weighed the pros and cons could have arrived at nor is there a finding, based on material, that the punishment is in 'outrageous' defiance of logic. Neither Wednesbury nor CCSU tests are satisfied. We have still to explain 'Ranjit Thakur [Ranjit Thakur v. Union of India , (1987) 4 SCC 611]." (emphasis in original) 23. In State Bank of India (supra), Apex Court had laid down the scope of interference by the Tribunal. The Court found that interference with the decision of an employer will be justified only when the findings arrived at in the inquiry are perverse or management is guilty of victimization, unfair labour practice or mala fides. It was further held that the Tribunal can only take into consideration the evidence placed before it for the first time in case no inquiry was held or after the enquiry was conducted by the employer it was found to be defective. 24.	In the instant case, the Labour Tribunal had categorically recorded in para 12 of its judgment that whole inquiry proceedings held against the delinquent employee was in a fair and proper manner and the enquiry officer has rightly come to the conclusion that charges stood proved against the worker. Once such finding was recorded by the Tribunal, it had no power to proceed further to modify the punishment awarded from dismissal to that of compulsory retirement with superannuation benefits. 25.	The judgment of the Tribunal is against the dictum of Apex Court not only in case of State Bank of India (supra) but also in other catena of judgments. Reliance placed upon decision of disciplinary authority awarding punishment to Surendra Kumar cannot be taken into consideration in the instant case while modifying the punishment since the charges against both the delinquent employees are different. Moreover, ten serious charges have been levelled against respondent No.2, while only one charge was against Surendra Kumar. The parity drawn by the Tribunal cannot be justified at any cost. The Tribunal sailed beyond its power vested under Section 11A of the Act of 1947. 26.	The comparison drawn by the Tribunal cannot be accepted looking to the gravity of charges levelled against the two delinquent employees of the Bank. The wisdom of the disciplinary action of the bank cannot be questioned as the charges are different. Respondent No.2 was responsible for opening the two accounts one being current account No.176 of M/s Rajesh & Company and the second account in the name of Rajesh Kishore being HSS Account No.3825, while Surendra Kumar had only cleared the cheques without tallying the signature. The misconduct on the part of respondent No.2 was greater having caused loss to the bank. 27.	The Apex Court in case of P.C.Kakkar (supra) held that a bank officer is required to exercise higher standard of honesty and integrity. The parity drawn by the Tribunal does not come under the category that punishment awarded was shockingly disproportionate to the offence which required the interference by the Tribunal under Section 11A of Act of 1947. 28.	Thus, I find that the Tribunal was not justified in modifying the punishment awarded by the disciplinary authority having been confirmed by the Appellate Authority as well as by the Division Bench of this Court in Special Appeal No.251 of 2006 from that of dismissal to compulsory retirement with superannuation benefits. 29.	Considering the facts and circumstances of this case, I find that the impugned award dated 22.08.2016 published on 05.09.2016 is unsustainable in the eyes of law and the same is hereby set aside. The order passed by disciplinary authority dismissing respondent No.2 from services stands confirmed. 30.	The writ petition succeeds and is hereby allowed. Order Date :- 6.3.2024
 
Kushal
 

 
(Rohit Ranjan Agarwal,J.)