These Civil Miscellaneous Appeals have been filed by the

 appellant/husband, challenging the common order passed by the learned

 District Judge, at Nagercoil, Kanyakumari District in I.D.O.P.Nos.84 and 1/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 151 of 2012 dated 27.07.2017. 2.For the sake of convenience, the parties are addressed herein as

 appellant husband and respondent wife. 3.D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 was filed by the appellant/husband under

 Section 10(1)(IX)(X) of Indian Marriage Act to dissolve the marriage

 between the appellant husband and respondent wife. D.O.P.No.84 of

 2012 was filed by the respondent wife under Section 32 of the Indian

 Divorce Act, 1869 as amended by Act, 51 of 2001 for Restitution of

 Conjugal Rights for restitution of conjugal rights of the respondent wife

 with the appellant husband. 4.The learned trial Court has framed two issues. The petitioner was

 examined as P.W.1 and one Lingadurai was examined as P.W.2 and 3

 documents Ex.P1 to Ex.P3 were marked on the side of the petitioner. The

 respondent was examined as R.W.1 on the side of the respondent and 14

 documents Ex.R1 to Ex.R14 were marked. On the basis of the oral and

 documentary evidence and the arguments put forth by the respective 2/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 parties, the learned trial Court allowed D.O.P.No.84 of 2012 filed by the

 respondent wife seeking restitution of conjugal rights with costs and

 dismissed D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 filed by the appellant husband seeking

 relief of divorce. 5.Assailing the said common judgment, the appellant/husband has

 preferred these Civil Miscellaneous Appeals. 6.Heard Mr.T.Arul, learned counsel appearing for the appellant and

 Mr.N.Shankar Ganesh, learned counsel appearing for the respondent and

 perused the entire materials available on record. 7.The learned counsel for the appellant husband claimed that the

 respondent wife always quarrelled with the appellant husband and she

 failed to maintain smooth and cordial relationship with her husband and

 continued disrespecting the appellant husband even after giving birth to

 two children. She went to the extent of stabbing the appellant husband

 with knife. It was also contended by the learned counsel for the appellant

 that the respondent wife did not even take minimum care to maintain 3/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 children and did not even provide the children with food in time, which

 caused untold pain and agony to the appellant husband. That apart, on

 30.05.2005, the respondent wife dropped their children in the appellant's

 parent's house and after which, she failed to come forward to maintain

 her children. 8.It was contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that the

 respondent wife wantonly took away the second child Rakesh Daniel

 with the help of her sister and sister's husband at the time of final

 examination, which resulted in demotion of the second child and the said

 incident caused immense mental agony to the appellant husband. It was

 strongly contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that the

 respondent had spread false news that the appellant husband's mother

 was affected by leprosy disease and advised the children not to take any

 food from the appellant husband's mother and also spread the said news

 to the relatives causing great mental agony to the appellant husband. It

 was further contended that after desertion, the appellant husband came to

 India in order to take back the respondent wife to their matrimonial

 home. When he went to respondent wife parent's house, the respondent 4/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 wife took a chopper and came out of the entrance shouting that she

 would murder the appellant husband and the said incident was witnessed

 by the driver of the appellant husband, namely Lingadurai. 9.The pleadings made by the respondent wife that the appellant

 husband had been a habitual drunkard and that he used to go to Bombay,

 Singapore, Chennai and China were utter false intended with a sole

 motive of defaming and demeaning the appellant husband and it was

 vehemently contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that the

 conjoint reading of the evidence of the respondent wife along with her

 pleadings would prove that all her defence in the petition for divorce and

 her allegations in the petition for restitution of conjugal rights were all

 concocted stories invented exclusively for the purpose of harassing the

 appellant husband. 10.That apart the learned counsel for the appellant contended that

 all the allegations of the respondent wife about the appellant husband

 with respect to his conduct of consuming liquor and that he enjoyed with

 ladies and friends had been intended in assaulting the character of the 5/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 appellant husband and the same would amount to cruelty and on that

 ground, the appellant husband is entitled for a decree of divorce. That

 apart, the respondent wife having introduced an unknown character of

 Sony Disusa in her evidence alleging that the said female stayed in the

 house of the appellant husband at Dubai for six months and that the

 appellant husband had close contact with the said woman was the

 ultimatum of all allegations intended to paint the appellant husband black

 causing great dishonor to him. Highlighting the attitude of the respondent

 wife removing her thali chain from her neck and throwing the same into

 the dust bin in front of the first son, the learned counsel for the appellant

 submitted that the said activity would also amount to cruelty. 11.As far as the point of desertion is concerned, the learned

 counsel for the appellant contended that in the month of October 2004,

 when the respondent wife returned to India voluntarily and thereafter,

 refused to return to their matrimonial home despite the appellant

 husband's efforts to bring her back to her matrimonial home and the same

 was prevented by her atrocities behavior when he visited her in her

 maternal home, by conversing filthy words accompanied by a chopper. 6/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 Refusing to come back to their matrimonial home itself would be a

 sufficient ground for the appellant husband to seek divorce. It is

 categorically contended that the respondent wife after deserting the

 appellant husband in the month of October 2004, there is no contact or

 cordial relationship between the appellant husband and respondent wife

 and there is no phone contact with the respondent wife as well. In view

 of the same, he pleaded for allowing the appeal. 12.Per contra the learned counsel for the respondent refuting the

 arguments put forth by the learned counsel for the appellant, submitted

 that the trial Court has elaborately dealt with both the cases and on the

 basis of the appropriate oral and documentary evidence had proceeded to

 dismiss the petition for divorce and allowed the petition for restitution of

 conjugal rights. In view of the same, he pressed for dismissal of the

 appeal. 13.It is the specific case of the appellant husband that the

 respondent wife had deserted him during October 2003 and right from

 the inception of marriage, the respondent wife never showed any love 7/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 and affection towards him. However, it is pertinent to note that the first

 child Trevor Daniel was born on 29.11.1998 and the second child namely

 Rakesh Daniel was born on 15.05.2000 and during the pregnancy period,

 in both the occasions, the respondent wife was living with the appellant

 husband at Dubai. Hence, it is needless to state that from the year 1997

 till 2000, the marriage between the appellant husband and the respondent

 wife must have been cordial. Hence, the allegation of the appellant

 husband that the respondent wife had not shown any love and affection

 from the inception of marriage need not be true. 14.A perusal of the materials available on record would reveal that

 the respondent wife had travelled to India for both the deliveries and the

 children were born through Caesarian section. It is brought to the notice

 of this Court that the appellant husband had purchased a piece of land

 measuring 12 cents at Parvathipuram, Nagercoil during the year 2002

 and he constructed a new house in six cents of land and house warming

 ceremony was on 03.07.2003 and the photographs taken during the

 ceremony would reveal that both the appellant husband, the respondent

 wife, along with children were cordial on the date of house warming 8/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 ceremony I.e., during the year 2003. 15.However, the fact that the respondent wife had deserted him

 during October 2004 has been strongly defended by the respondent wife

 that on 19.10.2004, she returned to India from Dubai to take treatment

 for her back pain due to Caesarian Section deliveries within an interval

 of 1 ½ years and only due to the refusal of allowing her into her

 matrimonial home by the husband's family, she stayed with her parents in

 her maternal home for taking necessary treatment. It is also specific to

 note that had the respondent wife intended to desert the appellant

 husband would not have left all her belongings at Dubai except few

 dresses while she left for India for the said treatment. However, after the

 respondent's arrival to India, it was found that the appellant husband

 never took any steps to call her back to Dubai. 16.While so, the appellant husband came to India during May

 2005, immediately the respondent's father on 30.05.2005 accompanied

 with the respondent wife and her children came to Oasis, Parvathipuram,

 Nagercoil. At that time, the appellant husband was with his parents at 9/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 their home. When the respondent wife's father returned back at 10.00

 a.m., to attend the work at Kuzhithurai Court, the appellant husband

 convinced the respondent wife that the appellant's mother is very cruel

 and hysterical and that she would become more ferocious if she saw the

 respondent wife. Thereafter, for that reason, he convinced the respondent

 wife that he will bring her back while he leaves for Dubai. He himself

 leaving the children with his parents took the respondent wife to her

 maternal home at Kuzhithurai on the same day at 01.30 p.m., and had

 lunch at Kuzhithurai and left for Nagercoil. When the respondent wife

 after two days was expecting for the arrival of her children tried to

 contact over phone, the appellant husband responded telling that 'he was

 at Dubai and he and his father together admitted the children at CSI

 Matriculation School, at Nagercoil and his mother will take care of the

 children'. He further warned the respondent wife not to go to Nagercoil

 and disturb his children and his parents. Thus, the appellant husband

 cunningly cheated the respondent wife taking the custody of their

 children and leaving them with his parents. The appellant husband and

 his father admitted Rakesh Daniel who did LKG, in the first standard

 directly. The appellant husband did not even know in which standard the 10/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 kid studied at Dubai and Trevor was admitted in second standard.

 Thereafter, the appellant husband and his parents never permitted the

 respondent wife and her parents to see the children at their home. During

 several occasions, the respondent wife stood outside the house and saw

 the children and returned back. Often the appellant husband's parents

 drove the respondent wife outside and locked the gate and children were

 tutored to hate their mother. Though originally the children were too fond

 of their mother in due course of time, they were made puppets in the

 hands of the appellant husband's parents. 17.While so the appellant husband's Driver one Lingadurai

 informed that Rakesh Daniel was admitted at Jeyasekaran hospital and

 that he was seriously ill and the respondent wife and her father went to

 hospital. On seeing them, the appellant husband's mother took a bottle

 full of water and started beating the respondent wife in front her parents

 and hospital authorities out of her rage. The appellant husband's father

 went to the extent of calling few rowdies and the respondent wife and her

 father were surrounded by a group of rowdies and the rowdies took away

 Trevor Daniel from the hospital. Left with no other option, the 11/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 respondent wife has to move away with tears. On the next day, when the

 respondent wife went to the hospital, she found the child was admitted in

 the Intensive Care Unit. Though the respondent wife called the appellant

 husband several times through phone, he did not give any response to

 her. On 08.01.2006, the appellant husband's parents left the child at

 hospital and absconded. The respondent wife and her father cleared the

 hospital charges and dues and took the child to their house. On

 28.01.2005, the appellant husband himself with his driver Lingam and

 some rowdies gone to the respondent wife's house in a drunken mood

 and tried to kidnap Rakesh and kill the respondent wife and her mother.

 The respondent wife got younger son Rakesh and has admitted in Infant

 Jesus School, Thiruthuvapuram. The elder son continued his studies at

 Nagercoil. Just to get undue advantage and to enjoy son's earnings, the

 parents of the appellant husband induced the appellant husband to desert

 the respondent wife. On the last annual examination day on coming to

 know that the visa was cleared for the elder son Traevor Daniel, he had

 planned to take away his elder son on the next day of exam to Dubai by

 giving him in adoption to the appellant husband's sister Beaulah

 Vijayakumar. Hence, the respondent wife rushed to the school wherein 12/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 Trevor Daniel was studying and she took away the elder son from the

 school after informing duly to Vadachery Police on the same day.

 Thereafter, two children and the respondent wife together stayed for the

 annual school vacation at Kuzhithurai that is the maternal home of the

 respondent wife. 18.Thereafter, the appellant husband's father after knowing that the

 respondent wife took the child, foisted false cases and filed complaints

 against the respondent wife and her relatives with the help of a local

 MLA. Influenced by the said MLA, the police had registered five cases

 of kidnapping and tried to arrest the relatives of the respondent wife.

 With the apprehension of the arrest, the respondent wife and her relatives

 took anticipatory bail from this Court. After a month, the case was

 referred by the police due to a compromise arrived at between them. At

 that time, with the help of police, the father in law obtained the passports

 of the respondent wife and her children. 19.On 07.06.2007, after school reopening, the respondent wife and

 her children voluntarily came to the appellant husband's house Oasis at 13/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 S.S.Nager, Parvathipuram to continue her children's education at

 Nagercoil by staying at their house. The appellant husband's father

 admitted the children at Bellfield Matriculation School, Asaripallam.

 From that day, by tolerating the life threat and torture, the respondent

 wife lived continuously at the appellant husband's house till April 2009.

 The appellant husband's parents did not permit the respondent wife to

 sleep with her children. But compelled the children to sleep with them in

 separate room. They even did not permit the respondent wife to talk to

 the children. They treated the respondent wife less than a maid and

 utilized her extracting maximum household work. The appellant

 husband's mother inflicted acute domestic violence and they locked all

 the phone in such a way that the respondent wife could not contact

 anyone from home. That apart the children were trained not to call the

 respondent wife as “Amma”. Many times the children were beaten by the

 grandmother for conversing with the respondent wife. While so, the

 respondent wife's mother passed away on 15.09.2009 and father passed

 away on 15.03.2010. Immediately after the death of the respondent wife's

 father, on 02.04.2010 to the shock of the respondent wife, the appellant

 husband issued an advocate notice to the respondent wife demanding 14/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 mutual divorce. Thus, the appellant husband deserted the respondent wife

 and the respondent wife has no motive or enmity with the appellant

 husband or his parents and has no intention to separate from him. 20.To the scrupulousness of all, the children were continuously

 brain washed by the appellant husband's illusionary versions of living at

 Dubai, Canada, Singapore, Honkong, Bombay and other luxurious

 places. The children's welfare was affected due to the undue influence of

 the appellant husband and his parents directly and indirectly. In the

 meanwhile, he resigned his job as Accountant in 'Zambezi Shipping' and

 started night club. In due course of time, the children who were initially

 innocent were completely brainwashed and trained in such a way as to

 give company to the appellant husband and follow his parents. The

 respondent wife by all means is not willing to consent for divorce. 21.The appellant husband in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012, that is, Anand

 Abeson Daniel examined himself as P.W.1 and his evidence was fully

 based on the contents of the petition in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012, as well as

 the contents of counter in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012. Supporting his version 15/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012, three documents were marked as Ex.P1 to

 Ex.P3, ie., Ex.P1 is the copy of the marriage certificate, Ex.P2 is the copy

 of Advocate notice issued by the petitioner and Ex.P3 is the

 acknowledgement card. The petitioner in D.O.P.No.84 of 2012, that is,

 Sheena Parimala examined herself as R.W.1 and was cross examined by

 the counsel for the petitioner in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012, on the basis of

 the contents of the petition in D.O.P.No.84 of 2012 and the counter filed

 in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 and put up suggestions to the petitioner P.W.1

 Anand Abeson Daniel. He denied the contents of the counter in

 D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 and contents of the petition in D.O.P.No.84 of

 2012. 22.The holistic consideration of the facts and circumstances of the

 case would reveal that the respondent Sheena Parimala had not deserted

 the appellant husband and children. On the other hand, the appellant

 husband had dropped her at her parent's home at Kuzhithurai and

 informed her that he will pick her up back, while he is leaving for Dubai.

 However, he did not do the same. He left for Dubai without taking the

 respondent wife and children with him. He admitted in the cross 16/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 examination that at the time of marriage, he was working in Dubai as an

 Officer in the Shipping and Forwarding Agency. He also admitted in the

 cross examination that when the respondent wife was pregnant, he sent

 her back to India. After the birth of elder son, he admitted that along with

 the infant child, the respondent wife returned to Dubai. He denied each

 and every suggestion putforth by the respondent wife's counsel in terms

 of petition in D.O.P.No.84 of 2012 and counter in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012. 23.Further the facts and circumstances of the his case would

 unfold that the sister of the appellant husband did not have children and

 wanted to adopt the children of the appellant husband. The appellant

 husband was ready to give the children to his sister. However, the same

 was not consented by the respondent wife. The appellant husband took a

 receptionist from Mumbai on a tourist Visa to Dubai and obtained regular

 Visa and later allowed her to reside in the family house, due to which

 serious misunderstanding crept between the appellant husband and the

 respondent wife. The parents of the appellant husband were also there in

 matrimonial home in Dubai. During that evening, the appellant husband

 took the company of the receptionist to the night club and returned home 17/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 early in the morning next day. Such activities of the appellant husband

 gave rise to enormous number of quarrels between the appellant husband

 and respondent wife and however, the appellant husband's parents kept

 supporting the appellant husband. Only on such circumstances, the

 respondent wife got pregnant with the second child and the appellant

 husband has brought her to India. He left her in her parent's house and

 returned to Dubai. Thereafter, the children and the respondent wife were

 residing in the matrimonial home at Parvathipuram. The appellant

 husband used to visit them once in a month or on business tours. While

 so, the custody of the children were cunningly taken by the appellant

 husband and left the custody of the children with his parents. The

 respondent wife was not allowed to live in her matrimonial home. 24.Under such circumstances, the respondent wife had taken the

 children from the school against which the appellant husband gave a

 complaint before All Women Police Station for the custody of the

 children. The appellant husband who was examined as P.W.1 had

 admitted that he had taken the respondent to her maternal house and

 denied the statement that he had not taken her back. In support of the 18/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 petitioner's contention in the petition and the affidavit, the appellant

 husband examined one Lingadurai as P.W.2 and P.W.2 had deposed that

 he had driven a Ambassider car bearing registration No.TN-72-B-7272

 along with the appellant husband to the residence of the respondent

 wife's parents. On seeing the appellant husband, the respondent wife had

 shut the door on the face of the appellant husband and tried to attack the

 appellant husband with aruval and warned the appellant husband that he

 would be attacked by aruval if he dared to enter the house. The appellant

 husband waited outside the gate of the respondent wife's parents house,

 Kuzhithurai. This was witnessed by the said Lingadurai and others at the

 respondent's maternal home. After that incident, the appellant husband

 never visited the wife's maternal house. 25.P.W.2 was cross examined by the respondent wife before the

 learned District Judge, Nagercoil. In the cross examination, he admitted

 that he was awarded life sentence by the very same learned Sessions and

 District Judge's Court, Nagercoil in an alleged kidnapping and murder of

 one Palanivel and the said judgment was confirmed by this Court and on

 appeal by him before the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the Hon'ble 19/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 Supreme Court had reduced the sentence and he was set free in the year

 2011. It was such a person who accompanied the petitioner to the Court

 and deposed evidence in his favour as P.W.2. 26.The respondent Sheena Parimala examined herself as R.W.1

 and she was also examined by the appellant husband. In the cross

 examination, she admitted that when she was in Dubai, there was no

 problem between them. Further she stated that at the time, the parents of

 the appellant husband used to talk to him through phone and only on

 such occasions, the appellant husband picked up quarrels with her and

 used to assault her. She admitted that what was spoken to the appellant

 husband by the mother was not known to her. In the cross examination,

 she has stated that the sister of the appellant husband was also residing at

 Dubai in a different residence and she used to visit the appellant

 husband's family often. On such visit, she used to pick up quarrel with

 the respondent wife and the appellant husband joined her in the quarrel.

 That apart she added that the appellant husband was drunk on the night

 of the marriage itself and he was accustomed to habitual drinking.

 Therefore, in the cross examination, it was suggested that she had not 20/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 mentioned about the appellant husband's drunken habit either in her

 petition or in the counter and the same is admitted by her. However, she

 stated that with her intention to re-join with him, she has not stated the

 same in her pleadings. 27.In the cross examination, she was confronted with the averment

 in the affidavit regarding the women from Mumbai who was taken by the

 appellant husband to Dubai on tourist visa as receptionist and after

 reaching Dubai, the tourist visa was converted into regular visa. She

 promptly deposed the name of the receptionist as Sony Disuza and she

 reiterated that Sony Disuza stayed in the family house at Dubai for six

 months. In the cross examination, for the suggestion, the said Sony

 Disuza left after six months the respondent wife responded that instead of

 leaving her, the appellant husband had driven the respondent wife out of

 the family house. Further she stated that the said Sony Disuza was

 introduced to her by her husband as private secretary in the office. On

 assessment of the evidence of the appellant husband and the respondent,

 it is found that the averments in petition in D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 cannot

 be considered by the Court in the light of the evidence available before 21/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 the Court. 28.The pleadings and the evidence of the appellant husband

 canvasses that the respondent was leading an irresponsible live not

 taking care of the children. When the children were in young and tender

 age at Dubai, she used to go out of house very often leaving the children

 in hunger without taking care of the household chores. It was also

 categorically contended that the petitioner's husband on return from his

 job would take care of the children by cooking food and feeding them.

 However, the learned Trial Court proceeded to held that such averment

 cannot be believed by any person and any women would not decline to

 prepare food for husband and under any circumstances, a woman will

 never leave her child in hunger. The learned Trial Court concluded that

 the pleadings in the petition for divorce is unbelievable. 29.Further the learned Trial Court proceeded to observe that the

 appellant husband had taken the wife to Dubai, which is an unfamiliar

 place for the respondent wife in such circumstances, the respondent wife

 leaving the house is completely unbelievable and given the strict societal 22/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 structure in the Arab, where a woman cannot move freely as in India and

 that the police in Arab had strict moral policing rules. Had the respondent

 wife being roaming around and moving around, a strict punishment

 would have been inflicted on her. While the respondent wife had no

 friends or relatives at Dubai, the question of leaving home and roaming

 around did not sound true. 30.The next contention that the respondent wife suffers from

 mental health issues. The learned Trial Court observed that in that case, it

 is the responsibility of the appellant husband to have given her

 appropriate psychological treatment and that recording the fact that the

 respondent wife is a graduate and that she has completed M.Sc, The

 contention of the appellant husband that the respondent suffered mental

 illness is not acceptable. Considering the fact that the parents of the

 appellant husband is alleged to have instigated the appellant husband

 resulting the appellant husband to pick up quarrel with the respondent

 wife, which in turn taking away the children from the custody of the

 respondent wife, denying the mother's love and affection to the children,

 obviously a women put to such circumstances would be subjected to 23/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 emotional abuse on being forcibly separated from her children and would

 naturally loose her mental balance and composure. Hence, the learned

 Trial Court proceeded to observe that the allegations that the respondent

 wife suffered from mental health would be attributed to the conduct of

 the appellant husband and his parents alone. That apart the Court

 observes that the children of the respondent wife are with the appellant

 husband's parents and the respondent wife is living separately. Moreover,

 the Court observed that the evidence is available that the respondent wife

 is not allowed to enter the matrimonial home and on such circumstances,

 it is needless to state that any woman would be in a condition of

 depression. 31.The contention of the respondent wife that the appellant

 husband went to respondent wife's maternal home with one Lingadurai

 who is a released convict to threaten the respondent wife to part away

 with the younger child cannot be treated lightly or ignored as if the said

 Lingadurai himself has filed an affidavit supporting the appellant

 husband's case. That apart the learned Trial Court has observed that in the

 cross examination, the said Lingadurai was examined as P.W.2 admitted 24/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 that he was convicted in an alleged case of murder and kidnap by the

 learned Additional District and Sessions Court, Nagercoil. Therefore, the

 learned Trial Court took adverse inference under Section 114 of Indian

 Evidence Act against the conduct of the appellant husband in threatening

 the respondent wife with dire consequences. This inference was thrown

 by the Court under Section 114 of Indian Evidence Act in the facts and

 circumstances and on the basis of evidence and from the records. Further

 the learned Trial Court proceeded to observe that the person who was

 convicted by the Court for murder even though the Hon'ble Supreme

 Court has reduced the sentence is still a convict in the eye of law.

 Knowing his criminal background, the appellant husband has exploited

 him to threaten his wife to keep away her from her children, thereby

 threatening her live and forcibly separated her from her children.

 Obviously that would cause unnatural outburst and emotional imbalance

 in her and naturally she would intent to revolt against the atrocious act of

 separating her children forcibly from her and as the result of which, she

 would have behaved awkwardly and the entire unpleasantness is

 attributable by the appellant husband and his parents. Thus the learned

 Trial Court proceeded to conclude that the appellant husband has his own 25/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 reasons to take the side of his parents ignoring the feelings of the

 respondent wife. 32.However, the actions of the appellant husband could not be

 accepted by any Court of law dealing with matrimonial disputes and the

 appellant husband failed to prove before the Court regarding the

 atrocities committed by the wife against the husband that she treated him

 with cruelty warranting divorce. The learned Trial Court proceeded to

 record that by the time, when the Court was deciding the case, the first

 son had completed 12th standard and joined professional course in Marine

 Engineering at Chennai and the younger son also attained the age of 16

 years and the proceeding of connected case in G.W.O.P.No.82 of 2012

 before the same Court would throw light on the entire facts and

 circumstances that both the children had been completely brain washed

 by the appellant husband and his parents utilizing the lack of company of

 the respondent wife with her children for their own evil desire. In view of

 the said observation, the learned Trial Court proceeded to dismiss

 D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 seeking divorce by the appellant husband and

 allowed D.O.P.No.84 of 2012 filed by the respondent wife seeking 26/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 restitution of conjugal rights. 33.Though the appellant husband has claimed divorce on the

 ground of cruelty and desertion, it has elaborately dealt with by the

 learned Trial Court. It was only the appellant husband and his parents

 who forcibly separated the respondent wife from her minor children

 continuously and had inflicted unexplained emotional and psychological

 abuse. The traumatic life in which a mother who had been separated

 forcibly by the husband and was completely compelled to lead a battle

 against her husband seeking custody of her children or atleast to meet her

 children in a plausible and peaceful circumstances would obviously

 subject a women to suffer to an ultimatum and the instant case is a

 notorious case where the appellant husband had continuously succeeded

 in keeping his children away from his wife and succeeded in

 brainwashing his sons to the disadvantage of the mother and had taken a

 matrimonial feud as an egoistic battle and has proceeded to confront his

 wife before the learned Trial Court seeking divorce and has successfully

 managed to keep G.W.O.P. pending till the elder son attained the age of

 majority and the younger son attained the age of 16 years. 27/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018 34.The learned counsel for the appellant has relied upon the

 judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Ravi

 Kumar v. Julmi Devi reported in CDJ 2010 SC 467, relying upon the

 definition of cruelty defined in paragraph no.18 of the said judgment and

 the same is extracted as follows:- 35.The learned counsel for the appellant contended that there is no

 defined form of cruelty and the Court has to test as to how the husband

 has suffered in view of the cruel attitude of the respondent. All along, the

 respondent was adamant in not even providing food to the children and

 she had gone to the extent of taking away younger sons during the last

 exam which spoiled one year career of younger son. Further he relied

 upon the case of K.Srinivas Rao v. D.A.Deepa reported in CDJ 2013 SC

 145 submitted that the Hon'ble Apex Court has held in paragraph no 22

 of the said judgment that the defamatory statement made by the wife

 against the husband amounts to cruelty. He further relied on the case of Vivek Thambuswamy and another v. Maria @ Sijo Paul reported in

 CDJ 2020 MHC 3866 in which the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that

 the allegations of dowry demand amounts to cruelty and accordingly

 granted the decree of divorce. In addition to that, he relied upon another

 Full Bench Judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of Samar 29/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 Ghosh v. Jeya Ghosh reported in CDJ 2007 SC 373, in paragraph no.

 96(xiv), held that “where there has been a long period of continuous

 separation, it may be fairly be concluded that the matrimonial bond is

 beyond repair. The marriage becomes a fiction though supported by a

 legal tie. By refusing to sever that tie, the law in such cases, does not

 serve the sanctity of marriage; on the contrary, it shows scant regard for

 the feelings and emotions of the parties. In such like situations, it may

 lead to mental cruelty.” 36.He relied upon yet another case of C.Sivakumar v. Srividhya

 reported in CDJ 2022 MHC 3632, wherein the Hon'ble Division Bench

 of this Court has held as follows:- 37.He relied upon yet judgment of Samitha v. V.R.Thirumal

 reported in CDJ 2023 MHC 7045, wherein the Hon'ble Division Bench

 of this Court has held as follows:- 38.Per contra the learned counsel for the respondent relied upon

 the order passed by the Delhi High Court in an appeal in case

 no.MAT.APP.(FC).290/2018 and in case no.MAT.APP.(FC).291/2018

 dated 19.09.2023, submitted that the Delhi High Court has reiterated that 31/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 'the District Courts and High Courts are not empowered to pass an order

 of divorce on the ground of “Irretrievable Break Down” and the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court has alone have the power to do the same under Article

 142 of the Constitution of India'. 39.The learned counsel for the respondent has relied upon the

 judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Shyam Sunder

 Kohli v. Sushma Kohli @ Sathya Devi reported in 2004 (7) SCC 747,

 has dealt with the similar issue and the relevant portion of which is

 extracted as follows:- 40.The learned counsel for the respondent has relied upon the

 judgment of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Basanta Das v.

 Shyamali Das reported in 2020 AIR (Calcutta) 47, has dealt with the

 similar issue and the relevant portion of which is extracted as follows:- 41.Having heard the rival contentions raised by both the parties

 and carefully perusal the materials available on record, this Court is of

 the considered view that the instant case, in which the husband as the

 appellant has sought for divorce against the wife on the ground of cruelty

 and desertion, on an elaborate over view of the facts and circumstances

 of the case would unfold the untold miseries suffered by the respondent

 wife who was forcibly separated from her minor children cunningly by

 the husband by taking the custody of the children and handing over the 34/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 custody of the children to the appellant husband's parents and keeping

 the respondent wife run between pillar and post even to have a glance of

 her children even for a moment. 42.Having successfully separated the children from the wife, the

 appellant husband has successfully tutored the children to the

 disadvantage of the mother by poisoning the children's mind about their

 mother to that extent that the children were made to depose evidence in a

 connected G.W.O.P.No.82 of 2012, wherein the children deposed

 evidence narrating unimaginable incidents about their mother. 43.The appellant husband examined himself as P.W.1 and another

 person one Lingadurai as P.W.2. The said P.W.2 was convicted in an

 alleged murder and rape case and was later released on remission by the

 Hon'ble Apex Court after a prolonged period of judicial custody. Various

 circumstances narrated by the parties to the case would reveal that the

 appellant husband had made use of the said P.W.2 Lingadurai to threaten

 the respondent wife and had even taken the said person to the maternal

 home of the respondent wife to deal with her. The respondent wife from 35/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 the instance of filing of D.O.P.No.151 of 2012 seeking divorce by the

 appellant husband had diligently filed counter and had contested the case

 seeking restitution of conjugal rights by consciously filing D.O.P.No.84

 of 2012 seeking to restitute her conjugal rights with the appellant

 husband. 44.The ground of cruelty can never be wrapped up by the appellant

 husband for the reason that all the cruelty has been inflicted on the

 respondent wife only by the appellant husband and his parents by

 creating circumstances of provocation subjecting the respondent wife to

 depression and emotional abuse by forcibly separating the children from

 her and prevented her from meeting her children. 45.The ground of desertion can never be invoked as against the

 respondent. On the basis of the available records and evidence, the fact

 that the house named OASIS was built up at Parvathipuram by the

 appellant husband and after that the respondent had been a companion

 during the house warming ceremony along with the children has also

 been put on record. That apart for the purpose of living with her children, 36/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 she continued to live in her matrimonial home at Parvathipuram

 tolerating all the ill behavior of her in laws till April 2009 in her

 matrimonial home. Only thereafter, the appellant husband had played

 fraud on her by cunning taking her back to her maternal home and

 leaving her in her maternal home. During the interregnum period 2005 to

 2007, the appellant husband made the respondent to remain in her

 maternal home and all the efforts to come and stay in the matrimonial

 home was cunningly prevented by her in laws. However, much efforts

 and several confrontations with the appellant husband and in laws on

 07.06.2007, after school re-opening, the respondent voluntarily came to

 the matrimonial home at Parvathipuram and she tolerated all the torture

 till April 2009. But on April 2009, when she went to visit her ailing

 mother and thereafter, she was not permitted to enter into matrimonial

 home. Following which, on 15.08.2009, the respondent mother and on

 02.04.2010, the respondent's father passed away. On such orphaned

 condition, the appellant husband had completely negated the respondent

 and successfully separated the children from her and fully refused her

 company to his children. In the year 2010, he filed a petition for divorce.

 All the efforts taken by the respondent wife to restitute the company of 37/40 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 C.M.A.(MD).Nos.1118 and 1119 of 2018

 matrimonial life failed and hence, she also filed a petition for restitution

 of conjugal rights. It is not the respondent wife, but only the appellant

 husband who had deserted the company of the respondent wife fully after

 2009. 46.The question of desertion could be decided only if the party

 alleging desertion succeeds on the proving that the other spouse is

 voluntarily living separately and that there is an animus deserendi on the

 part of the wife not to live with the husband. However, the case on hand

 is a clear case where the respondent wife continuously battled to live

 together with her family. It is pertinent to extract the following verse of

 Holy Bible, which reads as follows:- 47.Fully in tune to the Holy verses of the Bible that the wife

 should not be separated from her husband and the husband should not

 divorce his wife, observing that the instant case is where the wife is

 completely put to untold agony by the husband by continuously

 separating their children from the wife on various occasions repeatedly

 and subjecting her to cruelty and claiming a divorce on the ground of

 cruelty that the wife had treated him with cruelty. 48.Recording the fact that the appellant husband failed to prove

 cruelty on the part of the respondent wife and animus deserendi of

 desertion on the part of the wife, C.M.A.(MD)Nos.1118 and 1119 of

 2018 fails the test of proving the traits of cruelty and desertion against

 the respondent wife. 49.Accordingly, these Civil Miscellaneous Appeals stands

 dismissed. There shall be no order as to costs.