We missed this earlier: On May 12, the Allahabad High Court (HC) asked the Uttar Pradesh (UP) State Government to create a high-powered committee to examine the legislative necessity arising out of the “transformed socio-technological” landscape of online betting and gaming. The court recommended Professor K.V. Raju, Economic Advisor to the UP Government, as the chairperson of this committee.

“Modern, technology-sensitive legislation is urgently needed to address the psychological, social, and national security implications of online gaming. Comprehensive reform must include centralised regulation, age restrictions, financial controls, platform accountability, and public awareness campaigns to safeguard the well being of India’s youth and society,” the Allahabad HC said.

The court also suggested that the committee can include Principal Secretary, State Tax as Member Secretary, besides other experts as members. The inputs of these committee members can then be used to “develop a comprehensive and well-structured legislative framework for regulating and monitoring online gaming and public betting,” the court suggests.

Allahabad HC’s direction comes as part of an online betting racket case involving two UP residents, Imran and Irfan Khan. The state police had conducted a raid on the location where the two were allegedly carrying out their betting racket. When the police reached the location, the two allegedly ran out and escaped, dropping a Samsung tablet, which the police have since seized.

Imran and Irfan brought the case to the Allahabad HC, challenging the charge sheet the police had filed against them under the Public Gambling Act, 1867 . Their lawyer argued that the offences registered against the two were non-cognizable and the police cannot investigate said offences without written permission from a Magistrate. Given the absence of a Magistrate’s permission in this case, the entire police proceeding after the FIR is void ab initio (void from the beginning).

On the other hand, the state’s lawyer argued that people have made serious gambling allegations against  Imran and Irfan, and that they are habitual offenders. He mentioned that there are a combined 28 previous cases filed against the two individuals.

The court notes that the Public Gambling Act, 1867 is a colonial-era law which was supposed to address conventional gambling — card games, betting on dice, etc. It makes no mention of digital platforms, servers or cross-border transactions, and has no enforcement power over virtual gambling environments. The court highlights that the penalties under this Act (a maximum fine of Rs 2,000 and imprisonment for up to twelve months after a subsequent offence) are negligible and do not deter large-scale gambling operations.

Further, the Allahabad HC mentioned that there is a lack of clarity on the status of fantasy sports, poker and e-sports in India. “Jurisdictional issues also arise, as online platforms operate across state, national, and international boundaries,” it added.

The court mentions the UK Gambling Act, 2005 , which states that while online casinos and betting platforms are legal, they need appropriate licenses to operate in the country. The Act includes other requirements for betting platform operators such as age verification protocols, responsible advertisement standards, and anti-money laundering measures.

The Act has also established a central regulatory authority to oversee gambling operators (the UK Gambling Commission). In 2023, the British Government proposed measures such as affordability checks for online gamblers and stricter regulations for online slot machines. Other regions, such as Australia, allow for certain types of gambling and prohibit others. While the US determines legality of gambling operations at state level.

In India, betting and gambling are state subjects, which means that State Governments have power to formulate laws on matters related to the two. As such, while the Central Government’s public policy think tank NITI Aayog has released guiding principles for national-level regulation of online fantasy sports, such guidelines are not binding at state level.

“Fantasy sports in India lie in a legal grey area, straddling the line between games of skill (permitted) and games of chance (prohibited under the Public Gambling Act, 1867),” the Allahabad HC notes. It adds that multiple High Court rulings — notably in Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan, and Bombay — have recognised fantasy sports as a game of skill, thereby legitimising platforms that host such games.

The HC also mentioned the fact that the GST (Goods and Services Tax) Council has imposed a 28% tax on the full face value of bets in online gaming, casinos, and horse racing. Notably, the Government recently informed the Supreme Court that it does not distinguish between games of skill and games of chance under the GST law.

The Allahabad HC noted that India’s prevailing framework ignores key concerns surrounding online gaming. These include:

The court says that till a robust framework comes in, the fines and imprisonment terms under the Public Gambling Act can be revised in line with inflation and the scale of operations in UP by bringing in necessary legislative amendments.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event