SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Democratic Daily - A political forum
DATE: 2018-11-27
SCORE: 4
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/a0wsy8/democratic_daily_a_political_forum/

--- POST TEXT ---

A few weeks ago , I thought of forming my political opinions about casting my vote in the upcoming assembly election. 

I thought, maybe I should check how many options do I have? ... 2,3? 😱Well I have 18!, I have 18 different options(19 including NOTA) to choose on who/how should be the administration of my country.

I said.. ok.. I will get my opinions about them from experience, media, internet &amp; discussions with friends. I got satisfactory information to form opinions on the big/visible 4 parties, vague information on 2 parties &amp; nothing from the rest 12 candidates. I tried to go through their affidavits ; Too darkened, illegible scanned copies are available for all candidates (scanner problem at my constituency). Somehow I got some information from the affidavits, I got to know about candidates' wealth, education &amp; criminal cases against them; definitely not enough to form political opinion.

Since information on 77% of the candidates (14of18) are not accessible easily, I am likely to form poor opinions. 

Fast forward today, I have given up and formed an "okay" opinion between the visible 4. 

You might say that even if I had complete information about the rest 14, it wouldn't have mattered as they are nowhere close to winning &amp; I will be just wasting my vote. That's true, but only when, only I have information about them, if every voter gets information about them my vote to them will matter.I want the latter to be a reality and to achieve that I have devised the following plan: 

Creating an online political forum, made with values of non-profit, transparency &amp; no bias. 

Think of a discussion website, free ,open source , no ads, no frills. The forum will be similar to reddit (Topics, Threads, ,Advanced sorting, nested comment etc). 

Building it poses two big challenges which will later be its greatest strength , achieving "No Bias". Meaning no single person/institution can manipulate the website using hacking/money. This will be achieved in 2 ways: 

\#Killing the money : Website will be tailor-made to be low server cost, secure &amp; furnished, financed by a crowdfunded pool where no extra privileges are given to the patrons (Think Lichess). No ads will be hosted, no monetary activity will be there, at any levels. 

\#Killing the Bots\[HARDEST PART\]: ONE PERSON WILL HAVE ONE AND ONLY ONE ACCOUNT. Government issued ID will be used to achieve this, a lot of papad will have to be rolled to get the permissions ,and ensuring security of the data. 

A No Bias is an extremely important requirement, this will bridge the gap between public &amp; those 14 candidates whose presence could not be made known due to lack of resources. Maybe even help bringing a 19th candidate from the forum itself.

No bias will be the soul of this institution. 
 

*Framework will be such that:* 

\*Top layer will have Liberal but unalterable auto-moderation. 

\*Polls, sharing,DMs, differentiated read &amp; write rights, moderated groups, unmoderated groups &amp; everything that doesn't attract high server cost &amp; would ensure automatic democratic promotion of posts will be available. 

\*High levels of profile verification will make allow one to become member of the verified group of his/her constituency. (Later verified ward groups are also a possibility) 

*After technical completion this is how I see to forum going:* 

Phase 1:

For a long period it will work just like reddit's political posts where most members with get polarized &amp; few will remain engaging in debates.

As the number of member increases so does the power of every member. 

Phase 2:

As the crowds from Twitter &amp; Facebook will join, the forum will become even more powerful, political parties/ candidates will automatically get attracted. Manifestos will not only be posted here but also will be discussed &amp; made here (not referring to big parties).

Because of the values of No Bias the forum will then start to have small effect on real world politics. 

Phase 3:

Big political parties will try to exploit the forum. Even though almost entire crowdfunded money will be used in ensuring no bots,no fake accounts and secure verification of member. Big political parties will exploit it by bringing their armies of followers. At the end of the day, if the army will use their own verified account, their opinions will be welcomed &amp; respected by the forum.

If the army starts to create verified accounts of unaware people and then one person starts to use multiple accounts, that's where the problem will start. Members with bot like behaviour and many members from same IP address will attract Red flags which will be asked for reverification. Multiple redflags will lead to temporary ban.(subjectivity will only come if loopholes are observed &amp; violation occurs)

There will be a race between members whose actions are manipulated by big parties and those who are by their free will, at the end in a country like India where internet is accessed by more than 40% of the population...people using free will will easily prevail. 

Phase 4:

Discussions from the online forum will reach offline, networking effect will bring huge crowds of people, members will collectively possess strong political influence and a more democratic world will be created.

 

 

It is widely believed that US Presidential elections where manipulated using social media. The potential is huge..... I am just trying to add fairness.

I have just started working over the idea, working title of the forum is "Democratic Daily"

Would love to hear your opinions , suggestions and criticisms.