ANISH DAYAL, J. 1. This petition is filed seeking quashing of summoning order dated
 22nd May 2017 that took cognizance of offences under Sections Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 1 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 354/354D/354A/509/506/34 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 (" IPC "),
 arising out of FIR No. 0659/2015 P.S. Mayur Vihar dated 9th October
 2015, regards the petitioner. The charge-sheet was filed on 23rd July
 2016. The impugned order simply took cognizance of the charge-sheet
 noting that it was on the basis of the material which had been perused. Factual Background 2. On 9th October 2015, DD No.17A came to be recorded at 12:50
 hours at P.S. Mayur Vihar that two boys were abusing a female caller at
 the BSES office. The IO arrived at the scene of the alleged incident, and
 on the same day, respondent no.2/ complainant filed a complaint and FIR
 came to be registered, also against K. Anirudh Parmar and Girish Kumar
 under Sections 354 / 354D / 34 IPC at 21:05 hours. The petitioner was not
 named in the said FIR. 3. A perusal of FIR would show that respondent no.2/ complainant
 stated that on 9th October 2015, at about 11-11:15 in the morning, when
 she came to the office at Mayur Vihar, she saw Girish and Anirudh, who
 worked with her, standing on the scooty and laughing, which she
 ignored, since they had had a history of teasing her. A bit later, as per the
 complainant, the two co-accused accosted her and got hold of her hands.
 Thereafter, she called the PCR, but could not give a statement as she was
 nervous. She gave a statement at the police station stating that Anirudh
 and Girish were 'electricity bill distributors' in Laxmi Nagar.
 Subsequently, her statement was recorded under Section 164 of Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 (' Cr.P.C .'), on 16th November 2015, where
 she stated, that when she complained about it at the office, the staff said
 they were nephews of Kuldeep, the petitioner. She further stated that Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 2 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 Kuldeep the petitioner was the leader of the DSEWU and was
 threatening her to withdraw the case and also tried to kidnap her son.
 She stated further that she was earlier a Supervisor but these people
 including Kuldeep, Girish and Anirudh had got her transferred and she
 was having trouble at her job and they were threatening her and her
 children. Accordingly, charge-sheet was filed under Sections
 354 / 354D / 354A / 509 / 506 / 34 IPC. The petitioner was granted bail vide
 order dated 22nd September 2017. 4. Counsel for respondent no.2/ complainant stated in reply that the
 complainant was a single mother, employed initially on a contractual
 basis as a 'electricity bill distributor' and thereafter promoted to the post
 of Supervisor in 2013-14. The petitioner was a politically active person
 and had a tremendous influence on the officers of the company. The
 petitioner had bad intent towards the complainant since she was single.
 During 2014, he approached the complainant with indecent proposals,
 which were refused by the complaint. In retaliation, the petitioner
 started harassing her at every available opportunity, either directly or
 through others who were employed with her. The situation at the
 workplace became impossible and she was threatened to not file any
 complaint. The threats included that of kidnapping her children and
 defaming her. There were various complaints made by the complainant
 dated 23rd July 2015, 1st September 2015 and 16th September 2015 to her
 superiors, but no action was taken. These were prior to registration of the
 FIR. She made a request for transfer from Laxmi Nagar office but she
 was transferred to a further location, to Mayur Vihar branch, allegedly at
 the influence of the petitioner. However, she did join the duty at Mayur
 Vihar branch on 3rd October 2015. Submissions on behalf of Petitioner 5. Counsel for the petitioner stated that the petitioner was a Senior
 Trade Union Leader being General Secretary of the Delhi State
 Electricity Workers Union ("DSEWU") and a permanent employee of
 M/s. BSES Yamuna Power Ltd., where he was working as a Technical
 Officer. It is stated that the FIR was an abuse of process of law and did
 not disclose any offence against the petitioner. As per the petitioner,
 there was some discord which developed between him and respondent
 no.2/complainant and several BSES employees, including other co-
 accused; the petitioner had limited interaction with respondent no.2
 /complainant. 6. The petitioner sought to place additional documents on record
 noting that the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) submitted an
 inquiry report on 23rd August 2013 and according to the findings, the
 charges against petitioner were not proved. A copy of the ICC report has
 been placed on record and perused which essentially states that no
 evidence emerged in the inquiry substantiating the sexual overtures made
 by Kuldeep Kumar or his henchmen, at his behest. 7. Reliance is also placed on Johnson Jacob v. State (NCT of Delhi)
 (2022) 4 HCC (Del) 223 wherein a co-ordinate bench of this Court has
 stated that if the department has not been able to prove its charges in the
 departmental proceedings where burden of proof is lower, then, it is
 logical to presume that charges would not be proved in criminal
 proceedings. 8. Counsel for complainant /respondent no.2 however stated that
 they have filed an appeal against the ICC findings however, number of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 4 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 adjournments have been taken in that regard and the appeal has not yet
 concluded. 9. Petitioner produced transcripts of the recordings which have been
 filed by the complainant /respondent no.2. Counsel for petitioner also
 relied upon decision of this Court in State v. Nitin (2019) SCC OnLine
 Del 7239 where a co-ordinate bench of this Court in a situation, where
 name of respondent was not mentioned in the FIR but in a
 supplementary statement, given after a gap of 5 months, did not give
 credence to it and the discharge was approved. Submissions on behalf of complainant 10. Even while giving a statement pursuant to the incident on 9 th
 October 2015, she was threatened by other officers of BSES. The
 complainant adverted to the conversation between the complainant and
 the petitioner, which would disclose that several persons approached the
 complainant and pressure was mounted upon her to withdraw the
 complaint, including by one Mr. Nandlal. 11. She could not state complete facts before the police, considering
 there was constant pressure, and she finally stated the name of the
 petitioner in her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. when there were
 closed chamber proceedings, and she gave a statement without being
 traumatized. The Court has seen the record, and notes that while her
 statement was being recorded before the Magistrate, the IO had been
 asked to wait outside the judges chamber because she wanted to make a
 statement, as per her own will and without any perception of threat. 12. Along with the reply, complainant annexed copies of various
 complaints to senior officers of her Company, Chairman of Women
 Sexual Harassment Committee of Police and Delhi Women Commission.
 However, she stated that due to influence of petitioner, she continued to
 be victimised. Consequently, she was also going for treatment of
 depression, in support of which she has produced the medical record. Analysis 13. A perusal of the transcripts shows that the conversations revolve
 around petitioner and his associates engaging in professional misconduct
 and indecency. Furthermore, statements of respondent no.2 in the
 transcripts show her grievance regarding misuse of petitioner's position
 by him and his associates in order to interfere with her job posting. In the
 transcripts, respondent no. 2 refers to a recording made of her
 conversation, basis which it is alleged that she agreed to withdraw the
 case in exchange of a promotion. Respondent no. 2 clarifies to the
 person on call that such recordings were obtained by a group of people
 surrounding and pressurising her. Respondent no. 2 states in the
 transcripts that such undue professional benefits were not demanded by
 her, rather offered to her by the persons surrounding her and such offers
 were in fact refused by respondent no. 2. 14. Petitioner relies upon the judgment of a co-ordinate bench of this
 Court in Johnson Jacob v. State (NCT of Delhi) (supra) which further
 relies on judgments of the Supreme Court in Ashoo Surendranath
 Tewari v. CBI ( 2020) 9 SCC 636 and Radheshyam Kejriwal v. State of
 W.B. (2011) 3 SCC 581 where the Supreme Court has held that criminal
 proceedings may be quashed basis exoneration in departmental Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 6 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 proceedings, if both the proceedings are on the same set of facts and the
 exoneration in departmental proceedings is on merits. 15. The relevant paragraphs of the judgment in Johnson Jacob
 (supra) are extracted as under: It finally concluded: (emphasis supplied) 16. The cited precedent may not apply to the facts of the present case
 in light of the judgement of a co-ordinate bench of this Court in Ranbir
 S. Arora v. State 2014 SCC OnLine Del 3974 where it was observed that
 judgment in Radheshyam Kejriwal v. State of W.B. (supra) is on the
 ratio that criminal prosecution cannot subsist on the same set of facts as a Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 8 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 departmental proceeding where the proceedings were initiated by
 department itself and accused was exonerated. The said ratio will not
 apply where it is the victim that sets the criminal prosecution in motion.
 Relevant extracts of the said judgment are reproduced as under: (emphasis supplied) 17. It is pertinent to note that in Ranbir S. Arora (supra) as in the
 present case, the FIR was registered prior to the departmental
 proceedings, as regards the same, the court held as under: (emphasis supplied) 18. The Supreme Court in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Ajay Kumar Tyagi (2012) 9 SCC 685 elucidated that exoneration in disciplinary
 proceedings will not ipso facto exonerate the accused in a criminal case,
 following paragraphs are instructive in this regard: (emphasis supplied) 19. It is pertinent to note that even in Ashoo Surendranath Tewari v.
 CBI (supra) the discharge in criminal proceedings was basis a report of
 the Central Vigilance Commission, based on an allegation of corruption
 and other economic offences. 20. Notably, the issue in Radheyshyam Kejriwal (supra) and Johnson
 Jacob (supra) also involved allegations of corruption, initiated by
 employer in department/ vigilance proceedings. In complete
 contradistinction in this case, the ICC proceedings were initiated at the
 victim's behest for sexual harassment and culminated in a decision
 which is pending in appeal. The allegations have been made separately
 as per the registered FIR, now culminating in a chargesheet; the material
 would therefore have to be appreciated in its own light and not merely
 debunked or ignored, basis an ICC finding. The charges have to be tested Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 10 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 on basis of evidence having gone through filtration of a trial, based upon
 its own specific facts and testimonies. The ICC decision cannot simply
 be used to exonerate the accused of all penal charges without even a
 trial. 21. From a background of facts, it cannot be ignored, at this stage, that
 the complainant had consistently complained of harassment and
 intimidation by the petitioner directly or indirectly, where he allegedly
 used his influence in order to corner and coerce the complainant to
 accept his demands. These allegations include intimidation by way of
 threats to her which would, needless to state have to be assessed during
 trial. 22. The Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan v. B.K. Meena (1996) 6
 SCC 417, though in a different context, while deciding on a prayer of
 stay on disciplinary proceedings till the conclusion of the criminal case,
 elucidated as follows, as regards disciplinary proceedings vis a vis a
 criminal trial: (emphasis supplied) 23. A perusal of the transcripts would show that the complainant's
 conversations were based on background of threats, unwanted advances,
 and unwarranted professional interference by the petitioner in what
 prima facie seems a rampant misuse of petitioner's position in DSEWU
 and his influence in the organization. 24. ICC findings will not serve to discharge the accused considering
 they have been appealed against and are vulnerable to be set aside. 25. The trial was stayed on 28th February 2018 and the matter has
 been in limbo. The petitioner will have the right, in accordance with law,
 to prove his arguments during trial. 26. Based on the transcript, it was argued by petitioner that respondent
 no.2 was trying to blackmail by pressing these charges, in order to get a
 proper job, however, this is not evident on reading of these transcripts.
 Rather respondent no. 2 states in the transcripts that such offers of
 professional gain were made to lure her into withdrawing her complaint
 and were accordingly declined by her. 27. It is pertinent to note that the decision of the Court in Nitin (supra) is based on the facts before it. Allegations faced by accused were
 under Section 304/323, whereas the FIR before this Court in the present
 case, alleges offences of sexual misconduct and criminal intimidation. Further, the decision in Nitin (supra) was delivered by this Court in its
 revisional jurisdiction at the stage of discharge whereas the present case
 invokes the inherent power of this Court for setting aside a summoning Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 12 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34 order post cognizance. In Nitin (supra) absent the delayed incorporation
 of the accused persons named by the complainant in the statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C., there was no evidence on record to show his
 involvement in the alleged offence. 28. Meanwhile, in the instant case, considering the consistent and
 longstanding complaints filed by respondent against petitioner, coupled
 with transcripts and various other evidences, it cannot be said that there
 is no material to indicate possibility of the petitioner's involvement in
 the alleged offence. In various administrative complaints filed by the
 respondent, she has consistently maintained her grievance of sexual
 misconduct against the petitioner. Lastly, in Nitin (supra) there were six
 eyewitnesses that maintained that the accused was absent from the place
 of crime, their testimonies directly struck at the heart of the testimony of
 the complainant therein. In this case, the trial is yet to commence. 29. A co-ordinate bench of this Court in State v. Om Prakash 2017
 SCC OnLine Del 11272 elucidated that an FIR is not an encyclopaedia
 of the case and failure to name the accused in the FIR may be important,
 but the entire factual scenario must be examined to conclude
 participation of an accused in the offence, relevant paragraphs of the said
 judgment are extracted as under: (emphasis supplied) 30. The Supreme Court in Hazrat Deen v. State of U.P. 2022 SCC
 OnLine SC 1781 held that discrepancies between the FIR and a
 subsequent statement made under section 164 Cr.P.C. may be a defence
 however, such discrepancies cannot be basis for discharge without
 initiation of trial. 31. It has to be taken into account that complainant had filed multiple
 complaints at various points of time and her situation is not based on
 only one complaint. She was a junior employee in the department while
 petitioner was a very senior union leader. Considering this hierarchy in
 the event of any doubt or inconsistency, presumption must sway in
 favour of the complainant, at the present stage. 32. Reliance is placed in this regard on the following decisions of the
 Supreme Court and co-ordinate benches of this Court: (emphasis supplied)
 ii. A co-ordinate bench of this Court in Rashi v. Union of India 2020
 SCC OnLine Del 1555 while summarising principles involved in
 constitution/ conduct of ICC proceedings emphasised the need for
 proceedings to be unbiased from influence of senior members in
 an organization. The relevant paragraphs of the said judgment are
 extracted as under: 25. The underlying object of constituting the ICC, as laid
 down by the Supreme Court in Vishaka (supra), and the
 various decisions set out above is that the inquiry ought to
 be impartial and fair. For the said purpose to be achieved,
 the ICC ought to be an independent and unbiased body.
 External members are appointed on the ICC to ensure
 neutrality of the ICC. In case complaints are made against
 senior level officers working in ministries/departments, who
 have enormous influence over their subordinates, it is to be
 ensured that the complaints are inquired into in a
 completely unbiased manner. The age old aphorism that
 'Justice must not only be done but also be seen to be done'
 is apt in this context." (emphasis supplied)

 iii. A division bench of this Court in Ruchika Singh Chhabra v. Air
 France India 2018 SCC OnLine Del 9340 took note of the
 sensitivity to be observed in dealing with matters involving sexual
 harassment at workplace, relevant paragraphs have been extracted
 as under: 32. And upon us all-the employer, courts and the society as
 a whole, lies the duty to root out such wholly unwholesome
 behavior." (emphasis supplied) 33. It is to be noted that the present petition has been filed at a very
 nascent stage in the trial and has prayed for quashing an order merely
 taking cognizance and summoning the petitioner. 34. In light of the above discussion and assessment, this petition is
 dismissed along with the pending applications. 35. Judgment be uploaded on the website of this Court. (ANISH DAYAL)
 JUDGE
 SEPTEMBER 11, 2024/SM/kp Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:MANISH KUMAR CRL.M.C. 5351/2017 Page 18 of 18 Signing Date:17.09.2024 16:49:34