1. These are four applications filed under Section 11 of the Arbitration

 and Conciliation Act,1996 (for short 'the Act') whereby the applicants have

 prayed for appointment of an arbitral tribunal to adjudicate the disputes

 and differences which have arisen between the parties under the contract

 dated 28 April 2017 titled as "Deepening and Widening of Mumbai Harbour

 Channel and JN Port Channel (Phase-II)". 1/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc 2. The contract in question in each of these petitions was awarded by

the respondent to the applicant following the usual tender procedure a

public body would follow. The applicants had mobilized and thereafter have

performed and fully executed the contractual work which came to be

completed in the month of February-March, 2019. Such completion is stated

to be much before the prescribed time limit as set out and agreed between

the parties. Under Clause 48.1 of the General Conditions of Contract, the

contractor (petitioner no. 1) was required to issue a notice of completion

and by following the procedure as agreed. A 'Taking Over Certificate (TOC)'

was to be issued by the designated Engineer with the approval of the

Respondent within 21 days from the notice of completion. It is the case of

the applicants that accordingly a completion notice under such clause was

issued by the applicant when the Engineer had recorded and certified the

invoices of the applicant. It is however the case of the applicant that in

respect of certain invoices, the respondent has withheld the approval of the

Engineer, and a TOC to be issued. According to the applicants, the

respondent was in breach of its contractual obligations. 3. The applicants contend that consequently the applicants requested the

respondent to issue a TOC. The respondent by its letter dated 15 March 2/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

2019 addressed to the applicant recorded that issuance of TOC is under its

examination, for ascertaining compliances in accordance with the contract.

There was correspondence between the parties on such issues and

ultimately on 25 March 2019 the Engineer issued Interim Payment

Certificate ( IPC ) for payments amounting to Rs.100.72 crores by the

respondent to the applicant. Such payment, as per the contractual terms,

was required to be made within 21 days of the such certificate being issued

by the Engineer. However, the same was not issued. The applicants

contend that correspondence ensued between the parties on the amounts

due and payable to the applicants. The applicants contend that the disputes

between the parties have arisen in relation to non-payment of Interim

Payment Certificate Nos.12, 13, 14; for failure to accord approval to the

Engineer for issuance of Taking Over Certificate (TOC); for direct losses

and the Claims JNPT01 to JNPT08. 4. The case of the applicants is that a pre-arbitral mechanism namely

that the applicants being required to approach the engineer, was duly

satisfied. The applicants state that the engineer has already undertaken

certification of the amounts payable as noted above. Thus, according to the

applicants, disputes and differences have arisen between the parties under

the said agreement dated 28 April 2017. The applicants contend that 3/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

despite a request being made by the applicants for referring the disputes for

adjudication by appointing an arbitral tribunal, such request was not

accepted by the respondent. In such context, the Court's attention is drawn

to the letter dated 20 November 2019 in regard to the certification of the

claim of the applicants by the engineer and the invocation notice dated 5

December 2019. The applicants have set out details of 26 letters as

addressed by the applicants to the respondent pointing out the entitlement

of the applicant to receive the amounts due and payable by the respondents.

The applicants contend that despite such correspondence on the issue, the

requests as made by the applicants for reference of the disputes to

arbitration was not accepted by the respondent. 5. It is contended by the applicant that the respondent in reply to the

applicants' letters, by its letters dated 6 December 2019, 1 June 2020 and

24 August 2020 raised an ostensible objection to the effect that the

applicants had not resorted to Clause 67.2 of the agreement, whereunder,

an amicable resolution of the disputes was to be attempted before a

reference of the disputes to arbitration, could be made as per the agreed

pre-arbitral mechanism. Such letter in fact notes that in compliance of

Clause 67.2 of the agreement the respondent intended to amicably resolve

the disputes, more particularly when the claims made by the applicants 4/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

were claims as made in August,2019, which were made almost one year

prior to such letter being addressed to the applicant. The applicants contend

that the request as made by the applicants for an amicable settlement as per

Clause 67.2, it did not fructify, and more particularly, as also seen from the

case of the respondents as now presented in these proceedings being

discussed hereafter. 6. Finally, the applicant addressed to the respondent a consolidated

notice dated 27 July 2020 invoking the arbitration agreement and subject

matter of the disputes and differences in relation to these Section 11 applications. The respondent, however, did not accept the request of the

applicants to appoint an arbitral tribunal. Hence, the present applications

came to be filed. The respondents have filed reply affidavits in these four

proceedings. The contents of these affidavits are similar. As to what is set

out in the reply affidavits is quite intriguing. 7. At the outset, it needs to be stated that the reply affidavit is quite

cryptic, it is bereft of any disclosure of appropriate/relevant

correspondence. There is no substantive opposition on the part of the

respondent for appointment of an arbitral tribunal. In paragraph 3 of the

reply affidavit a faint desire and not of any relevance has been made to

oppose the applications on merits of the disputes. Curiously in paragraph 4 5/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

of the reply affidavit a plea has been taken that on the basis of some

investigation being carried out by the Central Vigilance Commission and

thereafter the same being handed over to the Central Bureau of

Investigation, on the issuance and award of the contract in question, the

present case falls under the category of 'fraud/involvement of corrupt

practices'. It is contended that as an investigation is being conducted by the

CBI pertaining to the contract, the respondents have received instructions

regarding non payment, as also for such reason, the permission to the

engineer for issuing a TOC (Taking Over Certificate) was withheld by the

respondent. The reply affidavit also states that the respondents is not aware

about the enquiry resorted by CVC and the investigation being conducted by

the CBI is kept confidential. The respondent has stated in the affidavit that

it has merely complied with the requirements of the letters dated 28 July

2020, 3 September 2020 and 24 December 2020 issued by the Ministry of

Port, Shipping and Waterways, Vigilance Section, in withholding payments

to the applicants. It is thus, the case of the respondent that the disputes

between the parties are not arbitrable as the disputes squarely fall within

the exception as carved out in the decisions of the Supreme Court qua cases

involving fraud, which according to the respondent, are held to be non-

arbitrable. It is necessary to note the relevant paragraphs of the affidavit of

the respondent which read thus:- 6/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

 "3. At the outset, I deny each and every allegation and insinuation
 made against the Respondent with respect to the merits of the alleged
 dispute in the present Application, save and except the facts which are
 expressly admitted herein. Nothing in the present Application ought to
 be deemed as admitted for non-traverse. I crave leave of this Hon'ble
 Court to file additional and further affidavits, if and when required. I
 also crave leave to produce other and further relevant documents
 before this Hon'ble Court, as and when required. 4. At the further outset, I say and submit that the present
 Application is not maintainable before this Hon'ble Court as the
 underlying alleged dispute is not arbitrable at the first instance,
 rendering this Application infructuous. I say that the subject matter of
 the alleged dispute/underlying contract is pending investigation
 before the Central Bureau of Investigation ("CBI") pursuant to the
 directions of the Central Vigilance Commission ("CVC") and the
 Ministry of Ports, Shipping & Waterways. The same falls under the
 category of 'fraud/involvement of corrupt practices' pending
 investigation with CBI. Hence the present Application is liable to be
 dismissed. 5. Without prejudice to the Respondent's contentions with respect
 to the subject matter of the alleged dispute, I say and submit that the
 present Application is not maintainable before this Hon'ble Court as
 the underlying alleged dispute is not arbitrable at the first instance,
 rendering this Application infructuous. I say that the subject matter of
 the alleged dispute/ underlying contract is pending investigation
 before the Central Bureau of Investigation ("CBI") pursuant to the
 directions of the Central Vigilance Commission ("CVC") and the
 Ministry of Ports, Shipping & Waterways (hereinafter referred to as
 "the Ministry"). The same falls under the category of
 'fraud/involvement of corrupt practices' pending investigation with
 CBI. Hence, the present Application is liable to be dismissed. 6. The position that at present the investigation is being
 conducted by the CBI pertaining to the Contract and the Respondent
 has received instructions regarding non-payment and consequentially,
 the permission to the Engineer for issuing Taking Over Certificate was
 withheld, is in knowledge of the Applicant. 7. The Ministry has issued the letter dated 28-7-2020, 03-09-
 2020 and 24-12-2020 whereby the Respondent was informed that a
 decision was made with the approval of the Hon'ble Minister of State
 (I/C) for Shipping to constitute a separate four-member Inquiry
 Committee to conduct a detailed investigation into the reported
 irregularities in the Subject Contract. The Respondent was also
 informed that Inquiry Committee submitted its report on 20-04-2020
 is confidential and hence, not available with the Respondent. As per
 the advice given by CVC, the said report dated 20-04-2020 has been 7/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

 forwarded to the CBI for criminal investigation. Hereto annexed and
 marked as "Annexure-B", "Annexure-C" and "Annexure-D" are the
 Ministry's letter dated 28-7-2020, 03-09-2020 and 24-12-2020
 respectively. It is further stated that the present case is pending with
 the CBI. 8. Pursuant to the direction issued by the Ministry of Ports,
 Shipping & Waterways to take action against the Contractor, the
 Respondent had issued a Show Cause Notice to the Contractor and its
 response has also been forwarded to the ministry of Ports, Shipping
 d& Waterways. The matter is still pending investigation. 9. Furthermore, it is submitted that the underlying alleged
 dispute falls squarely under the parameters set up by the Apex Court
 for 'fraud' exception to arbitrability of a dispute. Therefore, the
 remedy sought under the instant Application ought not to be given at
 this stage as the case of fraud pertaining to the Subject Contract on
 the part of the Applicants, which requires evidence and investigation,
 is still pending with the CBI till this date." (emphasis added) 8. Learned Counsel for the applicants would submit that it is quite

surprising for the respondents to take such a plea when a contract was

lawfully entered between the parties and thereafter, the contractual work

was fully performed and completed to the satisfaction of the respondent,

which legitimately entitled the applicants to receive all payments for the

work performed. It is further submitted that peculiarly, neither the

applicants nor the respondents are aware, as to the nature of investigation

being undertaken by the Central Vigilance Commission and now stated to

be by the CBI. In such context, learned Counsel for the applicants has

drawn the Court's attention to a letter dated 28 July 2020 issued by the

Under Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Shipping (for short 8/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

referred to as the "Ministry") to the Chairman of the respondent-Jawaharlal

Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), to submit that the concern in such letters appears

to be completely alien to the work performed by the applicants under the

contract and the consequent entitlement of the applicants to receive

payments thereunder. Such letter is required to be noted which reads thus:- Thanking you,
 Yours faithfully,
 Signed/- Chairman
 Encl.: As above." 12. By a further letter dated 24 December 2020 the Ministry has

informed the Chairman of the respondent of its stand in regard to the

present proceedings. The said letter of the Ministry reads thus:- (emphasis supplied) 13. Learned Counsel for the respondent referring to the reply affidavit

and the above material has submitted that considering the communication

as received from the Ministry the dispute is non-arbitral as it involves an

investigation on fraud. He has accordingly submitted that the applications

deserve to be dismissed. Reasons and Conclusion 14. At the outset it needs to be observed that admittedly there is an

arbitration agreement between the parties as contained in Sub-Clause 67.3

(as amended) which reads thus:- Neither party shall be limited in the proceedings before such
 arbitrator/s to the evidence of arguments put before the Engineer for
 the purpose of obtaining his said decision pursuant to Sub-Clause
 67.1. No such decision shall disqualify the Engineer from being called
 as a witness and giving evidence before the arbitrator/s on any matter
 whatsoever relevant to the dispute. The Place of arbitration shall be Mumbai, India. The language of the
 arbitration shall be English." 15. The respondent has not disputed the arbitration agreement. Also it

clearly appears that there was an appropriate invocation of the arbitration

agreement by applicant's notice dated 27 July, 2020, as addressed to the

respondent calling upon the respondent to appoint an arbitral tribunal to

adjudicate the disputes and differences between the parties interalia in

regard to the amounts due and payable to the applicant by the respondent,

in view of completion of the contract in question, as also the payment of

interest thereon subject matter of the present applications. 16. In so far as the requirement under Section 11 of the Act for the Court

to consider appointment of an arbitral tribunal is concerned, the law is well

settled. The Supreme Court in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd. (2017)9 SCC 729 in the context of the Court's jurisdiction under Section 11 in appointing an arbitral tribunal has held, that the basic consideration for

the Court would be to examine the existence of an arbitration agreement in 16/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

terms of what sub-clause (6A) of Section 11 would provide. The relevant

observations of the Supreme are required to be noted, which read thus:- separate subject matters; separate and distinct work; each containing
 separate arbitration clause signed by the respective parties to the
 contract." Mr.Justice Kurian Joseph (as His Lordship then was) in His Lordship's

concurring judgment has observed as under:- (emphasis supplied)

Thus the primary requirement for the Court to appoint an arbitral

tribunal is to examine the existence of an arbitration agreement.

However, what would be the factors which ought to weigh with the

Court in giving effect to an arbitration agreement in appointing an

arbitral tribunal, is the issue which would fall for consideration in the

present context. 17. In such context, it needs to be stated that the respondent is not

contending that this is not a case of non-existence of an arbitration

agreement. Hence, once the parties have agreed to an arbitration

mechanism for redressal of the disputes which may arise under the contract

in question, the law would ordinarily mandate the reference of the disputes

to be made to an arbitral tribunal, in the event a party to an arbitration

agreement has not consented or agreed to the reference of the dispute to

arbitration after receipt of the invocation notice. 18. The only opposition the respondent has put up for the reference of

the disputes to arbitration, is on the basis of the Ministry's letters (supra), 18/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

that this is a case which involves fraud, and hence, a reference of the

disputes to arbitration would not be available to the applicant. As noted

above, the contention that this is a case of fraud is on the basis of the

alleged investigation being resorted by the Ministry and now the

investigation is stated to be with the Central Bureau of Investigation which

according to the respondent is in relation to the contract in question. 19. It is thus required to be examined as to whether mere allegation of

an investigation, the details of which are not before the Court nor the

respondent being aware of such investigation, can be any impediment for

the Court to refer the disputes to arbitration, in exercise of its jurisdiction

under Section 11 of the Act. More so, by categorizing the case to be a case

falling within the parameters of non-arbitrability, so as to label it as a case

excluded from reference to arbitration. 20. In my opinion, mere allegation of a fraud put up as a defence by the

respondent, on the basis of letters dated 28 July 2020 and 3 September

2020 of the Ministry of Shipping as noted above, certainly would not make

the present case to be categorized 'not to be referred to arbitration', for the

reasons which can be discussed hereafter. 21. It needs to be borne in mind, as to what is the nature of the fraud,

which is being alleged by the respondent, so as to assert a plea of non- 19/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

arbitrability. Such contention as raised on behalf of the respondent appears

to be of quite surprising being not its own plea. Such a plea is taken being

guided by the Ministry as can be seen from the Ministry's letter dated 28

July 2020 and the letter dated 3 September 2020. A perusal of such letters

indicate that the allegations against the applicants on the basis of the report

of the four member enquiry Committee, is to the effect that the applicants

did not disclose its earlier transgression of contracts in Mauritius, Argentina

and Jamaica, which according to the Ministry of Shipping, stated to be

suppression of facts in violation of the Integrity Pact of the Request for

Proposal (RFP), which enabled them to be qualified for participation in the

tender. 22. However, the subsequent letter dated 24 December 2020 of the

Under Secretary of Ministry of Shipping as addressed to the Chairman of

the respondent which is in response to the letter dated 21 October 2020

states that the respondent "may nominate/appoint an arbitrator to defend

the case in this Court." Although such letter is already extracted in

paragraph 12 above, however, the relevant portion can again be renoted

hereunder:- In the supplementing judgment authored by Dr.Justice

D.Y.Chandrachud, it has been observed that the allegations of criminal

wrongdoing or of statutory violation would not detract the jurisdiction of

the arbitral tribunal to resolve a dispute arising out of a civil or contractual

relationship on the basis of the jurisdiction conferred by the arbitration

agreement. It was emphasized that as a matter of first principle in the case

of N.Radhakrishnan vs. Moestro Engineers2 , the Supreme Court had not

held that mere allegations of fraud would exclude arbitrability. It was

observed that the burden must lie heavily on a party which avoid

compliance with the obligation assumed by it to submit disputes to

arbitration to establish that the dispute is not arbitrable under the law for

the time being in force. The observations of His Lordship in the present

context as contained in paragraphs 32, 43, 45.2 and 56 are relevant which

read thus:- (emphasis added) 29. The Supreme Court in Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. & Ors. vs. HSBC PI

Holdings (Mauritius) Ltd.3 , referring to the decision in Ayyaswamy (supra)

has held that serious allegations of fraud arise only if either of the two tests

laid down are satisfied, namely when it can be said that the arbitration

clause or agreement itself cannot be said to exist, in a clear case in which

the Court finds that the party against whom breach is alleged cannot be said

to have entered into the agreement relating to arbitration at all; and the

second test can be said to have been met, in cases in which allegations are

made against the State or its instrumentalities of arbitrary, fraudulent, or

malafide conduct, thus necessitating the hearing of the case by a writ court

3 (2021) 4 SCC 713 27/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

in which questions are raised which are not predominantly questions arising

from the contract itself or breach thereof, but questions arising in the public

law domain. The Court also referring to Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. & Anr

Vs. Cherian Varkey Construction Co. (P) Ltd. & Ors. 4 and the decision in Booz Allen and Hamilton Inc. vs. SBI Home Finance Ltd. & Ors. 5 observed

that the same set of facts may lead to civil and criminal proceedings and if it

is clear that a civil dispute involves questions of fraud, misrepresentation,

etc., which can be the subject matter of such proceeding under section 17 of

the Contract Act, and/or the tort of deceit. The mere fact that criminal

proceedings can or have been instituted in respect of the same subject

matter would not lead to the conclusion that a dispute which is otherwise

arbitrable, ceases to be so. The relevant observations of the Supreme Court

are required to be noted which read thus: "4. The principles of law laid down in this appeal make a
 distinction between serious allegations of
 forgery/fabrication in support of the plea of fraud as
 opposed to "simple allegations". Two working tests laid
 down in para 25 are: (1) does this plea permeate the entire
 contract and above all, the agreement of arbitration,
 rendering it void, or (2) whether the allegations of fraud
 touch upon the internal affairs of the parties inter se having
 no implication in the public domain." 35. After these judgments, it is clear that "serious allegations of
 fraud" arise only if either of the two tests laid down are satisfied, and
 not otherwise. The first test is satisfied only when it can be said that
 the arbitration clause or agreement itself cannot be said to exist in a
4 (2010)8 SCC 24
5 (2011)5 SCC 532 28/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

 clear case in which the court finds that the party against whom breach
 is alleged cannot be said to have entered into the agreement relating
 to arbitration at all. The second test can be said to have been met in
 cases in which allegations are made against the State or its
 instrumentalities of arbitrary, fraudulent, or malafide conduct, thus
 necessitating the hearing of the case by a writ court in which questions
 are raised which are not predominantly questions arising from the
 contract itself or breach thereof, but questions arising in the public law
 domain. 43. In the light of the aforesaid judgments, paragraph 27(vi) of Afcons
 Infrastructure Ltd. vs. Cherian Varkey Construction Co. (P) Ltd.,
 (2010) 8 SCC 24 and paragraph 36(i) of Booz Allen (supra), must
 now be read subject to the rider that the same set of facts may lead to
 civil and criminal proceedings and if it is clear that a civil dispute
 involves questions of fraud, misrepresentation, etc. which can be the
 subject matter of such proceeding under section 17 of the Contract
 Act, and/or the tort of deceit, the mere fact that criminal proceedings
 can or have been instituted in respect of the same subject matter
 would not lead to the conclusion that a dispute which is otherwise
 arbitrable, ceases to be so." 30. In a three Judge Bench decision of the Supreme Court in Vidya

Drolia and others vs. Durga Trading Corporation6 (supra), Mr.Justice Sanjiv

Khanna in His Lordship's majority judgment elucidated and summerized the

legal position, observing that complexity is not sufficient to ward off

arbitration and that the language of Sections 8 and 11 Arbitration Act are

peremptory in nature. It is observed that the Arbitration Act has been

enacted to promote arbitration as a transparent, fair, and just alternative to

Court adjudication, and that, the public policy is to encourage and

strengthen arbitration to resolve and settle economic, commercial and civil

disputes. It is further observed that the party autonomy is now being put on

6 (2021)2 SCC 1) 29/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

a high pedestal, hence, the Act mandates that the parties to a valid

arbitration agreement must abide by the consensual and agreed mode of

dispute resolution. It is observed that the Courts must show due respect to

arbitration agreements. The Court has propounded a four-fold test for

determining when the subject matter of a dispute in an arbitration

agreement is not arbitrable, as set out in paragraph 76. The relevant

observations of the Court in paragraphs 71, 72, 73, 76, 77 and 78 are

required to be noted, which read thus: to observe in Avitel Post Studioz Ltd.47 : (SCC 35)

 "35. ... it is clear that serious allegations of fraud arise only
 if either of the two tests laid down are satisfied and not
 otherwise. The first test is satisfied only when it can be said
 that the arbitration clause or agreement itself cannot be
 said to exist in a clear case in which the court finds that the
 party against whom breach is alleged cannot be said to
 have entered into the agreement relating to arbitration at
 all. The second test can be said to have been met in cases
 in which allegations are made against the State or its
 instrumentalities of arbitrary, fraudulent, or mala fide
 conduct, thus, necessitating the hearing of the case by a
 writ court in which questions are raised which are not
 predominantly questions arising from the contract itself or
 breach thereof but questions arising in the public law
 domain." .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 76. In view of the above discussion, we would like to propound a
 fourfold test for determining when the subject-matter of a dispute in
 an arbitration agreement is not arbitrable: 31/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

 76.1 (1) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute
 relates to action in rem, that do not pertain to subordinate rights in
 personam that arise from rights in rem. 76.2 (2) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute
 affects third-party rights; have erga omnes effect; require centralized
 adjudication, and mutual adjudication would not be appropriate and
 enforceable. 76.3 (3) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute
 relates to inalienable sovereign and public interest functions of the
 State and hence mutual adjudication would be unenforceable.
 76.4 (4) When the subject-matter of the dispute is expressly or by
 necessary implication non-arbitrable as per mandatory statute(s).
 76.5 These tests are not watertight compartments; they dovetail and
 overlap, albeit when applied holistically and pragmatically will help
 and assist in determining and ascertaining with great degree of
 certainty when as per law in India, a dispute or subject-matter is non-
 arbitrable. Only when the answer is affirmative that the subject-matter
 of the dispute would be non-arbitrable. 76.6 However, the aforesaid principles have to be applied with care
 and caution as observed in Olympus Superstructures (P) Ltd.7 : (SCC
 p. 669, para 35)

 "35. ... Reference is made there to certain disputes like
 criminal offences of a public nature, disputes arising out of
 illegal agreements and disputes relating to status, such as
 divorce, which can not be referred to arbitration. It has,
 however, been held that if in respect of facts relating to a
 criminal matter, say, physical injury, if there is a right to
 damages for personal injury, then such a dispute can be
 referred to arbitration (Keir v. Leeman50). Similarly, it has
 been held that a husband and a wife may refer to
 arbitration the terms on which they shall separate, because
 they can make a valid agreement between themselves on
 that matter (Soilleux v. Herbst51, Wilson v. Wilson52 and
 Cahill v. Cahill53)." 77. Applying the above principles to determine non-arbitrability, it
 is apparent that insolvency or intracompany disputes have to be
 addressed by a centralized forum, be the court or a special forum,
 which would be more efficient and has complete jurisdiction to
 efficaciously and fully dispose of the entire matter. They are also
 actions in rem. Similarly, grant and issue of patents and registration of
 trade marks are exclusive matters falling within the sovereign or
 government functions and have erga omnes effect. Such grants confer
 monopoly rights. They are non-arbitrable. Criminal cases again are
 not arbitrable as they relate to sovereign functions of the State.
 Further, violations of criminal law are offences against the State and
 not just against the victim. Matrimonial disputes relating to the 32/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

 dissolution of marriage, restitution of conjugal rights, etc. are not
 arbitrable as they fall within the ambit of sovereign functions and do
 not have any commercial and economic value. The decisions have
 erga omnes effect. Matters relating to probate, testamentary matter,
 etc. are actions in rem and are a declaration to the world at large and
 hence are non-arbitrable. ------------- ------ 78. in view of the aforesaid discussions, we overrule the ratio in N.
 Radhakrishnan39 inter alia observing that allegations of fraud can ( sic
 cannot) be made a subject-matter of arbitration when they relate to a
 civil dispute. This is subject to the caveat that fraud, which would
 vitiate and invalidate the arbitration clause, is an aspect relating to
 non-arbitrability. We have also set aside the Full Bench decision of the
 Delhi High Court in HDFC Bank Ltd.38 which holds that the disputes
 which are to be adjudicated by the DRT under the DRT Act are
 arbitrable. They are non-arbitrable." 31. In a recent decision in N. N. Global Mercantile Pvt. Ltd. vs. Indo

Unique Flame Ltd.7 a three Judge Bench of the Supreme Court approving

the view as taken in the Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. & Ors. (supra), in the

context of fraud, has held that allegations of fraud are not arbitrable is

wholly an archaic view, which has become obsolete and deserves to be

discarded. It is however, observed that the criminal aspect of fraud, forgery

or fabrication, which would be visited with criminal sanctions can be

adjudicated only by Court of law as it may result in a conviction which is in

the realm of public law. The Court referring to the decision in A Ayyasamy (supra), Ameet Lalchand Shah & Ors. v. Rishabh Enterprises & Anr.8 , Deccan

Paper Mills v. Regency Mahavir9, Avitel Post Studioz Ltd. & Ors. (supra),

7 (2021) 4 SCC 739
8 (2018) 15 SCC 678
9 (2020) SCCOnLine SC 655 33/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc Vidya Drolia & Others (supra), in paragraph 40 of the decision has observed

that all civil or commercial disputes, either contractual or non-contractual,

which can be adjudicated upon by a civil court, in principle, can be

adjudicated and resolved through arbitration, unless it is excluded either

expressly by statute, or by necessary implication. The Court observed that

the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 does not exclude any category of

disputes as being non arbitrable. It was observed that the civil aspect of

fraud was considered to be arbitrable in contemporary arbitration

jurisprudence, with the only exception being where the allegation is that the

arbitration agreement itself is vitiated by fraud or fraudulent inducement or

the fraud goes to the validity of the underlying contract and impeaches the

arbitration clause itself. It was also observed that the civil aspect of fraud

can be adjudicated by an arbitral tribunal. The Court in paragraph 42, 45

and 50 observed thus: 32. On general principles, a useful reference can also be made to a

decision of the Supreme Court in Indian Oil Corporation Vs NEPC India Ltd.

& Ors.10 wherein in the context of quashing of the criminal proceedings, the

Court was considering an issue on a contractual dispute, which had arisen

between the parties. The Court observed that a given set of facts may make

out purely a civil wrong, or purely a criminal offence, or a civil wrong as

also a criminal offence. It was observed that a commercial transaction or a

contractual dispute, apart from furnishing a cause of action for seeking

remedy in civil law, may also involve a criminal offence. It was observed

that as the nature and scope of a civil proceedings are different from a

criminal proceeding, the mere fact that the complaint relates to a

commercial transaction or breach of contract, for which a civil remedy is

10 (2006)6 SCC 736 35/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

available or has been availed, is not by itself a ground to quash the criminal

proceedings. The Court also observed that there is growing tendency in

business circles to convert purely civil disputes into criminal cases. It is thus

clear that even if there is a contractual dispute between the parties, which is

purely civil in nature, any element thereunder attracting criminal

consequences under the same set of facts, would stand independent of a

civil adjudication. 33. Thus, adverting to the principles of law laid down in the decisions of

the Supreme Court as discussed above, in the facts of the present case, a

reference of the disputes to arbitration certainly cannot be denied. The

primary reasons being: that indisputedly there is an arbitration agreement

between the parties; there is an invocation of the arbitration agreement in a

manner known to law; that the respondent who is a party to the contract, in

no manner whatsoever has alleged any fraud against the applicants either in

the award of the contract or in the execution of the contract or in relation to

the claim of the applicants on the invoices which are partly certified by the

engineer; this is a case where the respondent has merely recorded a third

party intervention namely of the Ministry, who also for a long time has

remained inconclusive/silent on the involvement of any of the contractual

parties in any criminal acts touching the award of the contract to the 36/39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

applicant. 34. Thus, in my opinion, the present case in no manner can be labelled as

non-arbitrable so as to deny reference to arbitration, applying the settled

principles of law as noted above, which would guide the Courts in rejecting

a reference to arbitration. It would not lie in the mouth of the respondents

to lable this case as non-arbitrable merley on account of some

investigations, which according to the respondents, are pending since 2019.

The contractual obligations cannot be disowned on such premise.

Moreover, the record indicates that when the very first invocation letter(s)

were addressed by the applicants to the respondent, the respondent was not

even aware of any investigation by the CVC and was concerned only in

relation to the agreed pre-arbitral mechanism. In my opinion, there cannot

be such prolonged uncertainty on a finality to be brought about in

resolution of commercial disputes and in the spirit of the contract as agreed

between the parties. This, more particularly, on such considerations which

do not touch the contractual work performed by the applicants and in

regard to which payments are the subject matter of the applicants claim. 35. As a sequel to the above discussion, in my opinion, there is no

impediment whatsoever for this Court to exercise jurisdiction under Section 37/ 39 pvr 13carap140-20.doc

11 of the Act and make a reference of the disputes to arbitration by

appointing an arbitral tribunal as agreed between the parties. In the

arbitration agreement as amended (supra), the parties have agreed that the

disputes be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration and

Conciliation Act,1996 , by constituting an arbitral tribunal which shall

consist of three arbitrators, each of the parties to nominate its arbitrator,

and the arbitrators so nominated would appoint a presiding arbitrator. 36. Accordingly, the present applications are disposed of by the following

order:- 37. Learned Counsel for the parties inform that all the four arbitration

proceedings can be held before the arbitral tribunal as constituted by this

order. 38. Disposed of in the above terms. No costs. 39. Office to forward a copy of this order to the learned members

Arbitrator on the following address: