What’s the news?

The Enforcement Directorate (ED) detected and seized Rs 46.67 crore during ‘search operations’ while investigating the app-based token HPZ and related entities under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, on 14th September.

The website of HPZ, which has now been taken down, promised huge returns to users for investing in mining machines for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

During the search, “various incriminating documents have been recovered and seized. Huge balances were found to be maintained in the virtual accounts of the involved entities with payment aggregators”, the ED said .

Rs 33.36 crore was found with Easebuzz Private Limited in Pune, Rs 8.21 crore with Razorpay Software Private Limited in Bangalore, Rs 1.28 crore with Cashfree Payments India Private Limited in Bangalore and Rs. 1.11 crore with Paytm Payments Services Limited in New Delhi. A total amount of Rs 46.67 crore was freezed in various bank and virtual accounts, according to ED’s press release.

In all, the ED carried out search operations at “6 business and residential premises in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Mumbai, Lucknow, Gaya and 16 other premises of Banks/Payment Gateways branches/offices in Delhi, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bangalore.”

Why it matters: This seems like a continuation of ED’s crackdown on China-linked apps which use exploitative practices against its users. Medianama had reported that ED had previously conducted raids on the premises of Razorpay, Cashfree and Paytm, while investigating loan apps with links to China. There are many such apps with unethical practices in India according to news reports. An Uttar Pradesh police official claims that their cyber cell has unearthed online frauds worth Rs 4,200 crore involving instant loans, crypto investing and part-time jobs with links to China. Another such case has been reported from Uttar Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh and other states as well. The widespread impact of Chinese loan apps including deaths by suicide led Nirmala Sitharaman to organise a meeting with Ministry and RBI officials. RBI has since issued an ‘ Alert list ‘ of 34 unauthorised forex apps and is expected to prepare a ‘ whitelist ‘ of lending apps allowed on app stores.

How HPZ token operated

HPZ’s links to China

“Investigation revealed that the HPZ token was operated by M/s Lillion Technocab Private Ltd and M/s Shigoo Technology Private Limited. M/s Shigoo Technology Private Limited was also found linked to various Chinese controlled companies,” the press release said.

ED found that multiple firms “were indulged in receiving funds from public on pretext of operating various Apps/Websites for gaming/loan/others”. Moreover, their involvement with Jilian Consultants, a company with links to Hong Kong is suspected as well. Last week, a board member of Jilian Consultants was arrested on the allegation of being a mastermind of various “shell companies”.

Razorpay’s response:

The story was updated on 21 September, 2022 at 5:52 pm to include a response from Razorpay.

“With regards to the ongoing investigation against a few suspicious entities who conducted illegal business through multiple payment gateways/banks about 1.5 years ago, we proactively blocked all those suspicious entities and funds associated with them, and have shared their details with authorities. None of the funds which have been directed to be frozen by the authorities”, a Razorpay spokesperson informed Medianama.  The company “will continue to provide necessary information to authorities to assist in this investigation”, the spokesperson added.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event