The Centre has stated that Shamnad Basheer’s Delhi HC petition seeking damages due to Aadhaar data leaks is non-maintainable given that the Supreme Court has already passed its judgment on the Aadhaar matter . Basheer is the founder of SpicyIP and a lawyer.

However, Basheer pointed out that the SC had specifically stated that it was not dealing with the issues raised in his petition . In the KS Puttaswamy judgment, the SC had noted that, “Section 43A of the IT Act attaches liability to a body corporate, which is possessing, handling and dealing with any 68A challenge to the Aadhaar project for violation of IT Act and Rules has been filed in the Delhi High Court in the matter of Shamnad Basheer v UIDAI and Ors. Therefore, we are not dealing with this aspect, nor does it arise for consideration in these proceedings .”

Apart from claiming that the petition was non-maintainable, the Centre argued that the petition was misplaced and based on unverified reports. The Centre said:

Demanded the rejection of the PIL

Basheer filed his petition in May 2018 in the Delhi HC, alleging a violation of privacy as guaranteed by the KS Puttaswamy judgment. He sought action against the UIDAI and the Union government, for being negligent in securing citizens’ Aadhaar data. Basheer demanded exemplary damages for the Aadhaar data breaches, the provision to opt out of Aadhaar, and that all existing Aadhaar data be deleted via Write of Mandamus.

In November 2018, the Delhi HC granted the UIDAI four weeks’ time to file a response to the petition, and posted the next hearing for February 14. Earlier in August, the court had given more time to the UIDAI and other government bodies in view that the final judgment in the Aadhaar matter was looming at the time.

In his PIL, Basheer elaborates that he signed up for an Aadhaar Card in 2015, believing the project to be safe, secure, and consent based . He later also linked his bank account with Aadhaar for fear of his account being suspended.

Basheer in his petition further demands:

(all emphasis ours)

Also read:

IT Minister says no risk of data theft as Aadhaar amendment bill tabled in Parliament

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event