SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Could someone give me a non partisan view what holds for the Indian economy in the next 10 years?
DATE: 2021-01-30
SCORE: 23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/l8io1u/could_someone_give_me_a_non_partisan_view_what/

--- POST TEXT ---

I consider myself a patriot. I passed on a few things in life just to be in India. I wanted to bet on Indian economic growth, and therefore was always optimistic. But now that optimism is quickly changing to pessimism (will come to reasons). 2020 was fortunately was a good year for mez infact much better than some of the years, solely because I bought the dip in the stock market.

 I consider myself successful, and I did have it comparatively easy. I started with a salary of Rs 50000 per annum and grew to over 60 lakhs per annum in 13-14 years and now my business+passive income is in the 30 lakh per annum region which I am very satisfied with because the potential is visible.

Empirical reasons:

Reasons1: But then 3 years ago I had a kid. And that's where the pessimism began. Air, water, healthcare things I was taking for granted totally started pissing me off.

Reason2: we had a small house and we have been trying to sell for 10 years. Poor condition houses next door get sold for higher prices but ours doesn't even get sold. Why? Because we ask for cheque payments. We are asking for 60 paise on the rupee, and the government collector/circle rates are 25 paise on the rupee. So the property next door gets sold for 25+75. And we cant even get 60.

Reason3: Our cities look like slums (apologies for the analogy). Sanitation, infra is in doldrums, and I am in the f*ing capital city!

Reason4: saffronisation

Reason5: Zero manufacturing

Reason6: pump and dump/ponzi start-ups. Bad money, would have no trickle down effect.

Reason7: lack of creation and innovation. I have been noticing this after a friend who is a major youtuber pointed it out how Indian youtubers, SMEs are basically copying each other and have zero differentiation at scale. Since then I have started noticing small small things everywhere. One person opens a mobile store, 40 others in the market seeing the success blindly copy. During the lockdown a cycle store did well in my parents neighborhood, and 5 cycle stores opened up.

Reason8: economically most worrying for me. The government wants the poor to remain uneducated and just keep expecting sops in exchange for votes. And this has not changed in my lifetime. 

Reason9: absolutely no value for the taxes. I pay 40 percent on earnings and 18 percent on consumption. And then I pay fat maintenance bills to my society. What the F is this?

So, those are my somewhat stupid reasons. But within them hide some facts and truths about our state as a nation.

Now I urge any of the folks around here to help me navigate what the economic outlook of India is?

Or the things I am pointing to are just noise, compared to the signal.

Apologies for the long winded post. Thanks for reading.