Dr. B. S. CHAUHAN, J. 1. This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order 

dated 3.8.2009 in Civil Revision Application No. 564 of 2008 passed 

by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay affirming the judgment and 

order of the Small Causes Appellate Court dated 14.8.2008 in Appeal 

No. 627 of 2006 by which the appellate court has affirmed the 


judgment and decree dated 5.8.2006 in TE & R Suit No. 311/326/2001 

passed by the Court of Small Causes at Bombay. 2. FACTS: Trust issued a notice for terminating the tenancy of the appellant vide 

notice dated 26.9.2000. The respondents/plaintiffs after withdrawal of 

the suit filed under the Act 1947, filed a fresh suit in the Small Causes 3 Court at Bombay seeking eviction of appellant and for a decree of 

mesne profits on 20.4.2001. The appellant filed the written statement 

denying the pleas taken by the respondents/plaintiffs. The suit was 

decreed in favour of the respondents/plaintiffs vide judgment and 

decree dated 5.8.2006 by which the appellant was directed to hand over 

vacant and peaceful possession of the suit premises to the respondents 

within four months. E. Being aggrieved, the appellant preferred Appeal No. 627 of 2006 

to the Division Bench of the Small Causes Court at Bombay on 

13.11.2006 which was dismissed by the appellate court by affirming 

the judgment and decree of the trial court vide judgment and decree 

dated 14.8.2008. The appellant preferred civil revision before the High 

Court of Bombay, which has been dismissed vide impugned judgment 

and order dated 3.8.2009. Hence, this appeal. 3. Shri Prag P. Tripathi, learned Additional Solicitor General, 

appearing for the appellant has submitted that the judgments and 

decrees of the courts below have to be set aside as none of the courts 

below has taken into consideration the effect of the provisions of the 4 Act 1995 by virtue of which the textile undertaking stood absolutely 

vested in the Central Government and further vested in the appellant. As on the expiry of the lease of 99 years on 22.10.1990, the Act 1947 

was in force, the then tenant, Poddar Mills became the statutory tenant. Such tenancy rights stood vested absolutely in the Central Government 

on commencement of the Act 1995 by operation of law. The appellant 

stepped in the shoes of the Central Government merely as an agent, 

thus, the Central Government remained the tenant. The Central 

Government continued to be a tenant in the suit premises and thus, 

would be protected in terms of Section 3(1) (a) of the Act 1999 being 

premises let out to the Government. The courts below failed to 

consider this vital legal issue. The suit filed by the respondents was 

not maintainable. The judgments and decrees of the courts below are 

liable to be set aside. 4. Per contra, Shri Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel 

appearing for the respondents, submitted that it is not permissible for 

the court to travel beyond the pleadings. No evidence can be led on an 

issue in respect of which proper pleadings have not been taken. Findings of fact cannot be recorded on a issue on facts in respect of 

which no factual foundation has been laid. The appellant had never 5 raised the issue before the courts below that the Central Government 

was the tenant and it was holding the premises merely as an agent. In 

the written statement filed by the appellants, no reference was made to 

the provisions of Act 1995. Even otherwise, the tenancy rights which 

had vested in the Central Government, stood vested immediately, by 

operation of law, in the appellant, a public sector undertaking as well as 

the public limited company having a paid up share capital of more than 

rupees one crore, thus the appellant has no protection of the Act 1999. As the said provisions of Act 1999 are not attracted in the instant case, 

the suit for eviction was filed before the Small Causes Court at 

Bombay. All issues raised in the plaint have been adjudicated by three 

courts. The power of the revisional court, in view of the provisions of 

Section 115 of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter called as 

`CPC'), remains very limited after the amendment Act 2002, w.e.f. 1.7.2002. Being the fourth court, in exercise of its power under Article 

136 of the Constitution, this Court should not entertain the appeal. The 

appeal lacks merit and is liable to be dismissed. 5. We have considered the rival submissions made by the learned 

counsel for the parties and perused the record. 6. In the instant case, no reference had ever been made by the 

appellant to the effect of the provisions of the Act 1995 before the trial 

court while filing the written submissions; neither any issue has been 

framed; nor arguments had been advanced in regard to the same; this 

issue has not been agitated either before the appellate court or 

revisional court. Before us, an application has been filed to urge 

additional grounds regarding the application of the Act 1995 without 

seeking amendment to the pleadings (WS). 7. Pleadings and particulars are necessary to enable the court to 

decide the rights of the parties in the trial. Therefore, the pleadings are 

more of help to the court in narrowing the controversy involved and to 

inform the parties concerned to the question in issue, so that the parties 

may adduce appropriate evidence on the said issue. It is a settled legal 

proposition that "as a rule relief not founded on the pleadings should 

not be granted". A decision of a case cannot be based on grounds 

outside the pleadings of the parties. The pleadings and issues are to 

ascertain the real dispute between the parties to narrow the area of 

conflict and to see just where the two sides differ. (Vide: M/s. Trojan 

& Co. v. RM N.N. Nagappa Chettiar , AIR 1953 SC 235; State of 

Maharashtra v. M/s. Hindustan Construction Company Ltd., AIR 7 2010 SC 1299; and Kalyan Singh Chouhan v. C.P. Joshi , AIR 2011 

SC 1127). 8. In Ram Sarup Gupta (dead) by L.Rs. v. Bishun Narain Inter 

College & Ors. , AIR 1987 SC 1242, this Court held as under: Similar view has been reiterated in Bachhaj Nahar v. Nilima 

Mandal & Ors. , AIR 2009 SC 1103. 9. In Kashi Nath (Dead) through L.Rs. v. Jaganath, (2003) 8 SCC 

740, this Court held that "where the evidence is not in line of the 

pleadings and is at variance with it, the said evidence cannot be looked 

into or relied upon." Same remain the object for framing the issues under Order 

XIV CPC and the court should not decide a suit on a matter/point on 

which no issue has been framed. (Vide: Biswanath Agarwalla v. Sabitri Bera & Ors., (2009) 15 SCC 693; and Kalyan Singh 

Chouhan (supra). 10. In Syed and Company & Ors. v. State of Jammu & Kashmir 

& Ors., 1995 Supp (4) SCC 422, this Court held as under: 11. In Chinta Lingam & Ors. v. The Govt. of India & Ors. , 

AIR 1971 SC 474, this Court held that unless factual foundation has 

been laid in the pleadings no argument is permissible to be raised on 

that particular point. 12. In J. Jermons v. Aliammal & Ors , (1999) 7 SCC 382, while 

dealing with a similar issue, this Court held as under: 13. In view of the above, the law on the issue stands crystallised to 

the effect that a party has to take proper pleadings and prove the same 

by adducing sufficient evidence. No evidence can be permitted to be 

adduced on a issue unless factual foundation has been laid down in respect of the same. 14. There is no quarrel to the settled legal proposition that a new plea 

cannot be taken in respect of any factual controversy whatsoever, 

however, a new ground raising a pure legal issue for which no 

inquiry/proof is required can be permitted to be raised by the court at 

any stage of the proceedings. (See : M/s Sanghvi Reconditioners Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India & Ors. , AIR 2010 SC 1089; and Greater 

Mohali Area Development Authority & Ors. v. Manju Jain & Ors. , 

AIR 2010 SC 3817). 15. The questions do arise as to whether in the facts and 

circumstances of this case the Government is a tenant or the appellant 

can be termed as "Government" or "Government Department" or 

"agent" of the Central Government in the context of the Act 1999. The Government loosely means the body of persons authorized 

to administer the affairs of, or to govern, a State. It commands and its 1 decision becomes binding upon the members of the society. Government includes, both the Central Government as well as the State 

Government. The government is impersonal in character having three 

independent functionaries as its branches. It performs regal and 

sovereign functions, which are not alienable to any other person, e.g. 

defence, security, currency etc. Government means a group of people 

responsible for governing the country. It consists of the activities, 

methods and principles involved in governing a country or other 

political unit. The Government is a body that governs and exercises control 

by issuing directions and is not governed by any other agency. It is a 

body politic that formulates policies and the laws by which a civil 

society is controlled. It is a political concept formulated to rule the 

nation. It is not a profit and loss establishment. "From the legal point of 

view, government may be described as the exercise of certain powers 

and the performance of certain duties by public authorities or officers, 

together with certain private persons or corporations exercising public 

functions." Thus, Government Department means something purely 

fundamental, i.e. relating to a particular government or to the practice 

of governing a country. It has different Wings. However, the expression `Government' may be required to be 

interpreted in the context used in a particular Statute. The expression 

denotes the Executive and not the Legislature. (Vide: State of 

Rajasthan & Anr. v. Sripal Jain, AIR 1963 SC 1323; Pashupati 

Nath Sukul v. Nem Chandra Jain & Ors., AIR 1984 SC 399; R.S. 

Nayak v. A.R. Antulay, AIR 1984 SC 684; and V.S. Mallimath v. Union of India & Anr., AIR 2001 SC 1455) 16. To perform the functions, the Government has its various 

departments and to facilitate its working, the Government itself may be 

divided into various Sections. To carry out the commercial activities by 

the State, the Corporations have been established by enactment of 

Statutes and the "power to charter Corporations is incidental to or in 

aid of Governmental functions." Such Corporations would ex- hypothesis be agencies of the Government. (Vide : Sukhdev Singh & 

Ors. v. Bhagatram Sardar Singh Raghuvanshi & Anr. , AIR 1975 1 SC 1331; and Ramana Dayaram Shetty v. The International 

Airport Authority of India & Ors. , AIR 1979 SC 1628). 17. Banks and Financial institutions carrying out financial 

transactions, are independent to do business subject to the regulatory 

laws made by the legislature. They are not under the direct executive 

control of the government. They are profit and loss earning 

organisations coupled with all connected financial and economic 

activities. They are a body corporate with a limited role to play and do 

not "govern" people as understood by governance. (See: Federal Bank 

Ltd. v. Sagar Thomas & Ors. , AIR 2003 SC 4325). 18. In State of Punjab & Ors. v. Raja Ram & Ors. , AIR 1981 SC 

1694, this Court considered the provisions of the Food Corporation 

Act, 1964 and held that Food Corporation of India was not a 

Government department but a Government Company. The Court 

observed : (See also: The State of Bihar v. The Union of India & Anr., AIR 

1970 SC 1446; S.S. Dhanoa v. Municipal Corporation Delhi & 

Ors., AIR 1981 SC 1395; K. Jayamohan v. State of Kerala & Anr., 

(1997) 5 SCC 170; Hindustan Steel Works Construction Ltd. v. State of Kerala & Ors., AIR 1997 SC 2275; Mohd. Hadi Raja v. State of Bihar & Anr., AIR 1998 SC 1945; and State through 

Narcotics Control Bureau v. Kulwant Singh, AIR 2003 SC 1599). 19. In Food Corporation of India v. Municipal Committee, 

Jalalabad & Anr. , AIR 1999 SC 2573, this Court considered the case 

of imposition of house tax under the provisions of the Punjab 

Municipalities Act, 1911 and held that Food Corporation of India was a 

Government Company and not a Government Department - a distinct 

entity from Central Government. Thus, was not entitled to 

exemption from tax under Article 285 of the Constitution. While 

deciding the said case, reliance had been placed by the Court on its 

earlier judgment in M/s. Electronics Corporation of India Ltd., etc. 

etc. v. Secretary, Revenue Department, Government of Andhra 

Pradesh & Ors., etc. etc., AIR 1999 SC 1734. 20. In A.K. Bindal & Anr. v. Union of India & Ors. , (2003) 5 

SCC 163, this Court clarified: (Emphasis added) 21. In Southern Roadways Ltd., Madurai v. S.M. Krishnan , 

AIR 1990 SC 673, this Court examined an issue whether the 

possession of the agent can be termed to be the possession of the 

principal for all purposes including the acquisition of title and held 

that agent who receives property from or for his principal, obtains 

no interest for himself in the property for the reason that 

possession of the agent is the possession of the principal and in 

view of the fiduciary relationship the agent cannot claim his own 

possession. While deciding the said case reliance was placed on 1 various earlier judgments including Smt. Chandrakantaben v. Vadilal Bapalal Modi, AIR 1989 SC 1269. In Prem Nath Motors Ltd. v. Anurag Mittal , AIR 

2009 SC 569, this Court dealt with the relationship of agent and 

principal and held that in view of the provisions of Section 230 of 

the Indian Contract Act 1872 (hereinafter called the ` Contract 

Act '), an agent is not liable for the acts of a disclosed principal 

subject to a contract to the contrary. Where the relationship of 

principal and agent is established the agent cannot be sued when 

the principal has been disclosed. (See also: Vivek Automobiles 

Ltd. v. Indian Inc., (2009) 17 SCC 657). Thus, it was made clear that suit does not lie against 

an agent where the principal is known or has been disclosed. The appellant may be called `agency' or `instrumentality' of 

the Central Government for a limited purpose, namely to label it to 

be the "State" within the ambit of Article 12 of the Constitution. (See: Pradeep Kumar Biswas v. Indian Institute of Chemical 

Biology & Ors. , (2002) 5 SCC 111). However, even by stretch of imagination, the appellant 

cannot be held to be an `agent' of the Central Government as 

defined under Section 182 of the Contract Act. 22. Thus, if the aforesaid settled legal principles are applied to the 

appellant, it becomes evident that appellant is neither the government 

nor the department of the government, but a Government Company. Appellant cannot identify itself with the Central Government. The 

submission made by Mr. Tripathi that appellant is merely an agent of 

the Central Government is not worth consideration at all for the simple 

reason that rights vested in the appellant stood crystallised after being 

transferred by the Central Government. Appellant is being controlled 

by the provisions of the Act 1995 and not by the Central Government. Whereas an agent is merely an extended hand of the principal and 

cannot claim independent rights. 23. Section 3 (1) (a) & (b) provide for exemption from the 

application of the Act 1999. This Court examined the validity of 1 provisions of Section 3(1) (a) and (b) of the Act 1999 in Saraswat 

Coop. Bank Ltd. & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra & Ors. , (2006) 8 

SCC 520 and came to the conclusion that it was within the exclusive 

domain of the legislature to decide which section of tenants should be 

afforded protection on the basis of economic criteria. If a particular 

section of tenants is not protected considering their economic 

conditions it can be held to be a reasonable classification and making 

such distinction is valid. The exclusion of premises let or sub-let to 

banks or any public sector undertaking or any corporation established 

by or under any Central or State Act or foreign missions, international 

agencies, multinational companies and private and public limited 

companies having paid up share capital of rupees one crore or more 

could not be held to be arbitrary. The Court further held that the 

provisions of Section 3(1)(b) are applicable to all premises whether let 

out before or after commencement of the Act 1999. 24. In Leelabai Gajanan Pansare & Ors. v. Oriental Insurance 

Company Ltd. & Ors. , (2008) 9 SCC 720, this Court dealt with the 

same issue as which of the categories of tenants have been excluded 

from the operation of the Act 1999 and held as under: (Emphasis added)

(See also: D.C. Bhatia & Ors. v. Union of India & Anr. , (1995) 1 

SCC 104). 25. The case stands squarely covered by the judgment of this Court 

in Leelabai Gajanan Pansare (supra) so far as the issue of exemption 

to the Act 1999 is concerned. 26. Section 3(1) and (2) of the Act 1995 reads as under: 27. `Vesting' means having obtained an absolute and indefeasible 

right. It refers to and is used for transfer or conveyance. `Vesting' in 

the general sense, means vesting in possession. However, `Vesting' 

does not necessarily and always means possession but includes vesting 

of interest as well. `Vesting' may mean vesting in title, vesting in 

possession or vesting in a limited sense, as indicated in the context in 

which it is used in a particular provision of the Act. Word `Vest' has 2 different shades, taking colour from the context in which it is used. It 

does not necessarily mean absolute vesting in every situation and is 

capable of bearing the meaning of a limited vesting, being limited, in 

title as well as duration. Thus, the word `vest' clothes varied colours 

from the context and situation in which the word came to be used in the 

statute. The expression `vest' is a word of ambiguous import since it 

has no fixed connotation and the same has to be understood in a 

different context under different set of circumstances. (Vide: Fruit & 

Vegetable Merchants Union v. Delhi Improvement Trust , AIR 1957 

SC 344 ; Maharaj Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. , AIR 

1976 SC 2602; Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad v. P.N. 

Murthy & Ors. , AIR 1987 SC 802; Vatticherukuru Village 

Panchayat v. Nori Venkatarama Deekshithulu & Ors. , 1991 Supp. (2) SCC 228; Dr. M. Ismail Faruqui etc. v. Union of India & Ors., 

AIR 1995 SC 605 ; Government of A.P. v. H.E.H. The Nizam, 

Hyderabad, (1996) 3 SCC 282 ; K.V. Shivakumar & Anr. v. Appropriate Authority & Ors., (2000) 3 SCC 485 ; Municipal 

Corporation of Greater Bombay & Ors. v. Hindustan Petroleum 

Corporation & Anr. , AIR 2001 SC 3630 ; and Sulochana 

Chandrakant Galande v. Pune Municipal Transport & Ors. , (2010) 2 8 SCC 467). 28. The Act 1995 has been brought for providing the acquisition and 

transfer of the rights, title and interest of the owners in respect of the 

textile undertakings. Respondents had not been the owner of the textile 

undertaking. They had rented out the premises to Poddar Mills and 

what had vested in the Central Government was only the right, title and 

interest of the Poddar Mills and nothing else. The Poddar Mills was 

having only right in tenancy in the suit premises. The owner had been 

defined in clause (g) of Section 2 of the Act 1995, taking into 

consideration the expression in relation to textile undertaking as a 

proprietor or lessee, or occupier of the textile company undertaking. It 

included even the receiver and liquidator where the companies had 

gone under liquidation. Textile undertaking has been defined in Section 2(m) which means undertaking specified in column (2) of the First Schedule to the Act 1995 i.e., the textile undertakings, 

management of which had been taken over by the Central Government 

under the Act 1983. The First Schedule included Poddar Mills at Sl. No.9 and Poddar Mills had been paid compensation to the tune of 

Rs.7,46,30,000. Nothing has been paid so far as respondent No.1 is 

concerned. Sub-section (6) of Section 4 of the Act 1995 provides that 2 any suit, appeal or other proceedings of whatever nature in relation to 

any property which had vested in the Central Government under Section 3 on the appointed day, instituted or preferred by or against the 

textile company is pending, the same shall not abate or adversely affect 

the rights of the parties by reason of the transfer of textile undertaking. Thus, the commencement of the Act 1995 does not really affect even 

the pending cases. In view thereof, it is beyond our imagination as how 

the Act 1995 would prejudice the cause of the respondents in the 

proceedings which arose subsequent to the commencement of this Act. 29. It is not permissible for the appellant to canvass that the Central 

Government has any concern so far as the tenancy rights are concerned. Right vested in the Central Government stood transferred and vested in 

the appellant. Both are separate legal entities and are not synonymous. The appellant being neither the government nor government department 

cannot agitate that as it has been substituted in place of the Central 

Government, and acts merely as an agent of the Central Government, 

thus protection of the Act 1999 is available to it. Appellant cannot be 

permitted to say that though all the rights vested in it but it merely 

remained the agent of the Central Government. Acceptance of such a 

submission would require interpreting the expression `vesting' as 2 holding on behalf of some other person. Such a meaning cannot be 

given to the expression `vesting'. It is a settled legal proposition that an agent cannot be 

sued where the principal is known. In the instant case, the 

appellant has not taken plea before either of the courts below. In 

view of the provisions of Order VIII Rule 2 CPC , the appellant 

was under an obligation to take a specific plea to show that the suit 

was not maintainable which it failed to do so. The vague plea to 

the extent that the suit was bad for non-joinder and, thus, was not 

maintainable, did not meet the requirement of law. The appellant 

ought to have taken a plea in the written statement that it was 

merely an `agent' of the Central Government, thus the suit against 

it was not maintainable. More so, whether A is an agent of B is a 

question of fact and has to be properly pleaded and proved by 

adducing evidence. The appellant miserably failed to take the 

required pleadings for the purpose. 30. Thus, in view of the above, we reach the inescapable 

conclusion that appellant is not entitled for exemption under 2 Section 3(1)(a) or 3(1)(b) of the Act 1999. Nor can it claim the 

status of an `agent' of the Central Government. Submissions 

advanced on behalf of the appellant are preposterous. Facts and 

circumstances of the case do not warrant review of the impugned 

judgment. However, considering the nature of business of the 

appellant, it is in the interest of justice that appellant be given time 

upto 31.12.2013, to vacate the premises. Appellant shall file a 

usual undertaking within four weeks from today to hand over 

peaceful and vacant possession to the respondent No.1. With the aforesaid observation, appeal stands 

dismissed. ............................J.

 (P. SATHASIVAM)

 ...........................J.

 (Dr. B.S. CHAUHAN)

New Delhi,

September 5, 2011 2 2