SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A new type of scam happening with my mom?!
DATE: 2024-09-30
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1fss2i3/a_new_type_of_scam_happening_with_my_mom/

--- POST TEXT ---

1. It started on 23rd September, my mom ordered 3 kurtis from flipkart, did online payment from gpay
2. Next day someone from flipkart called, telling our address to confirm the delivery, the address he said was right then an otp came on mom's phone from flipkart. I told the otp to confirm the order. He then kept telling me to say my address again and again, my mom told me it might be a scam , so I hung up
3. After 2 hrs mom again got the call from him. He told me that the orders will be cancelled bcz of the price change...the amount we paid isn't the price anymore. He also told me he can cancel and order on my behalf again if I pay the amount now. Smelling a scam, I said no worries I will cancel myself. Within 5min of hanging up, flipkart automatically canceled my order and I got refund message from flipkart. Within 1 hour all refund was credited in my mom's account. 
4. But after 1 hour of hanging up the call I opened flipkart app on her phone, and to my surprise someone ordered a slutty lingerie set from her account to our address on COD. There's no way someone from our family ordered that. I canceled the order and deactivated her account. 
5. Cut to today 30th September, she got a saree delivery on her name, address and her name everything was written on the cover. It came through amazon shipping. It was a cash on delivery my dad took it thinking she ordered it but she didn't! !! They took fucking 760/-. I searched on every app she didn't order anything. Then I saw her sms, by god I saw amazon shipping has been sending her message about this order. The order was placed on 24th September!!!! She even got two more messages this morning telling about the order is coming. I went to the tracking link no idea about the sender name.
 Outside the packet label, there was a shop name and shipper address from Gujarat like it was shipped from there . No bill in there and nothing else. She's so frightened rn and I don't know what to do any help?