This order shall dispose of a bunch of 8 writ petitions bearing CWP

Nos.2943, 3287, 3407, 3609, 3655, 3675, 3676 and 3870 of 2019, in which

various issues have been raised by the petitioners. However, for the sake of

convenience, the facts are being extracted from the lead case bearing CWP

No.2943 of 2019, in which the respondents have filed their reply. In brief, the Haryana Public Service Commission (hereinafter referred to

as the "Commission") issued an advertisement no.6 of 2016 on 20.03.2017,

inviting applications from the eligible candidates to fill up 109 posts of Civil

Judge (Junior Division) in the cadre of Haryana Civil Services (Judicial

Branch). The category-wise break-up of the aforesaid 109 posts is as under:- It is provided in the advertisement that selection of the suitable

candidates for appointment in the cadre of Haryana Civil Services (Judicial

Branch) will be made by holding the examination, which shall be conducted in

three stages, namely, (i) Preliminary Examination; (ii) Main Examination, and (iii) Viva-Voce. The syllabus for preliminary examination was also provided in

para 12 of the said advertisement, which read as under:- In continuation of the aforesaid advertisement, the Commission issued a

corrigendum on 27.08.2018, by which the total number of posts were reduced

from 109 to 107 and the category of EBP(G) was abolished and specific notes

were added, which read as under:- In response to the aforesaid advertisement, the Commission received

32230 applications. The preliminary examination of the said applicants was

held on 22.12.2018. The question paper of the preliminary examination was set

in the form of four question booklets, to which paper code was given as `A',

`B', `C' and `D'. All the question papers were of 125 questions, carrying four

marks each, maximum 500 marks and time of two hours was allowed to

attempt the said paper. It was made clear to the candidates that they have to

 4 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:18 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [5]

choose the best option out of the options given as answer to a particular

question. The answer key of the examination held on 22.12.2018 was uploaded

on the website of the High Court on 23.12.2018 and a separate notice was given

for the purpose of inviting objections, if any, to the answer key, for which 10

days' time was provided. Admittedly, 2203 emails were received by the High

Court raising anomalies in the formation of answer options of 91 questions. All

the objections were dealt with by the Recruitment Committee of the High Court

comprising of five Hon'ble Judges and a decision was taken on 11.01.2019 to

delete six questions and revise the answer key of 8 questions. The chart of the

deleted as well as revised questions, which is provided in the reply of the

respondents, is reproduced as under for ready reference:- 5 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:18 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [6]

 Code Code Code Code Proposed Proposed
 'A' 'B' 'C' 'D' Answer change of
 Key option
 Question No. 3 8 18 33 D A
 Question No. 12 27 37 52 C B
 Question No. 13 28 38 53 C A
 Question No. 39 79 89 104 A C
 Question No. 85 105 95 110 A A
 Question No. 102 42 52 67 C A
 Question No. 111 21 31 46 A B
 Question No. 113 23 33 48 B D

 Thereafter, the High Court uploaded the revised proposed answer key on

the website of the High Court on 11.01.2019 again inviting objections upto

10.00 am on 14.01.2019. This time, 407 emails, raising cross-objections were

received and after re-consideration of the matter, the Committee found that

Option `A' of question No.85 of Question Booklet Code `A', which originally

appeared in the proposed answer key, would be the right answer. However, the

Committee did not find any substance in rest of the cross-objections and,

therefore, direction was issued to finalize the result. The said decision was

taken on 14.01.2019 and accordingly, the result was declared on 16.01.2019

and the final answer key was uploaded on the website of the High Court on

17.01.2019. It was decided by the Commission to invite 10 times of the

candidates of the available posts in each category, for undertaking the main

written examination, for which different cut off was provided. For example,

there are 75 posts of general category, the Commission has invited 750+14

(total 764) candidates with the cut off 326.40 marks. In the category of

Scheduled Castes, there were 14 posts and accordingly, 140 candidates plus 3

bracketed are invited to undertake the main written examination. 6 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:18 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [7]

 After the cut off was declared, the present petitions have been filed

which have been clubbed together as the issues involved in all the petitions are

similar. However, the respondents have chosen to file reply in one of the

petitions because in most of the cases, the petitioners have raised the question

of jurisdiction of the respondents to delete the questions, some questions have

wrongly been deleted without there being any ambiguity, the answer key has

wrongly been changed, some of the questions were out of syllabus and certain

questions require revision, which has not been taken into consideration by the

respondents while deciding their objections filed twice. We have heard learned counsel for the parties in detail and from their

respective arguments formulate the following four questions for the purpose of

adjudication:- 7 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:18 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [8] 3. Whether the respondents have erred in revising the answer key of

 8 questions despite the fact that the answers are demonstrably and

 palpably erroneous? 4. Whether the questions disputed by the petitioners also require

 revision at the hands of the respondents because the final revised

 answer key of the said questions also are demonstrably erroneous

 and escaped the notice of the Recruitment Committee?

 In regard to the first question, Shri Sourabh Goel, learned counsel

appearing on behalf of one of the petitioners, has submitted that the

respondents have not referred to any rule which permits deletion of an

ambiguous or defective question, rather the proper course should have been for

the candidates to have applied to the Court for such recourse. In support of his

submissions, he has relied upon a judgment of the Supreme Court rendered in

the case of Guru Nanak Dev University vs. Saumil Garg, (2005) 13 SCC 749.

 In this regard, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the

respondents has submitted that all the deleted questions were either ambiguous

or were having more than one correct answers or serious spelling mistake,

whereas in the question booklet, it has been specifically mentioned as one of

the instructions that the candidate/examinee has to choose one of the best

answer. To support her submissions, learned counsel for the respondents has

relied upon the following decisions:- Learned senior counsel for the respondents has submitted that in Ran

Vijay Singh 's case (supra), the dispute was in regard to re-evaluation of the

disputed questions and re-examination of the answer sheets. In the said case,

Hon'ble the Supreme Court has laid down certain conclusions, which read as

under:- She has further referred to para 31 of the said judgment to contend that

the Supreme Court has considered the process of deletion as one of the ways

out and the exact language used by the Supreme Court is that "this Court has

shown one way out of an impasse - exclude the suspect or offending question". 9 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 10 ]

 In Richal's case (supra), Hon'ble the Supreme Court was also dealing

with the scope of judicial review of opinion of the subject expert. Learned

counsel for the respondents has pressed paras 24 and 25 of the said judgment,

which read as under:- In Varun Chandiok's case (supra), the judgment relied upon by the

counsel for the petitioners in Guru Nanak Dev University's case (supra) has

been referred to in extenso and the following observations have been made:- 10 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 11 ]

 deserves to be re-examined without cancelling the entire Entrance Test.
 It was ordered that the majority view of the Committee appointed by
 the High Court would be the basis of the revised/correct key answers.
 In an appeal, the Hon'ble Supreme Court sought report from the CBSE
 as well as from the Delhi University on the correctness of 10 key
 answers. The Court found that out of such questions, 8 questions are
 demonstrably erroneous, whereas in respect of 2 questions, benefit of
 doubt as per law well settled has to go in favour of the examining body.
 The Hon'ble Supreme Court directed that the key answers of such
 questions should be re-examined by the University in the light of the
 reports of the CBSE and the Delhi University. 8. The Court also found that 7 questions are so vague as that they
 are incapable of having a correct answer. The University has given
 credit to all the students, who had participated in the Entrance Test.
 Such course was not found to be proper. Having said so, the Court
 found that the reasonable procedure would be to give credit only to
 those, who attempted such questions or some of them. The University
 was directed to revise the result accordingly. 9. We do not find that the said judgment provides any assistance to
 the arguments raised. The action of the University in giving credit to all
 the students, whether they have attempted the questions or not, was
 found to be unjustified. In the present case, the examining body has
 taken a conscious decision that credit or discredit of such questions
 shall not be given to any student irrespective of the fact whether a
 student has attempted such questions or not. Therefore, all students
 have been assessed on the basis of 120 questions rather than on the
 basis of 125 questions. Numerous eventualities can be conceived as a
 result of such decision; such as, a candidate, who has answered the
 questions correct, has been deprived of the marks, whereas a candidate,
 who has not understood the questions correctly and not attempted the
 same or attempted wrongly, would stand to benefit. 10. In a writ petition, we are not to examine the numerable
 circumstances, which may ensue as a result of deletion of such
 questions. As a part of judicial review, the jurisdiction of this Court is
 to examine the decision making process. Whether the decision making
 process of deleting the questions is so arbitrary, unreasonable or
 irrational that it cannot be sustained. The examining body is the most

 11 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 12 ]

 suitable to decide, whether such questions are vague or the options are
 incorrect or not possible. Such decision of the examining body has to
 be respected. The decision of the examining body that questions need
 to be deleted cannot be said to be arbitrary, unreasonable or irrational,
 which may warrant interference by this Court in exercise of its writ
 jurisdiction. 11. We find that the argument of learned counsel for the petitioner
 to be contradictory, when the petitioner seeks deletion of three
 questions i.e. 78, 83 & 125. Again, whether the question should be
 deleted or not depends upon the opinion of the examining body. The
 decision of the examining body to delete some questions or not to
 delete other questions cannot be said to be violative of any principle of
 natural justice or arbitrary or irrational, which may warrant interference
 in any manner." In Monika Goyal 's case (supra) also, this Court was dealing with the

correctness of the answer key in regard to the preliminary examination held for

the selection in the cadre of Punjab Civil Services (Judicial Branch). In the

said case, question No.55 was challenged on the ground that it has wrongly

been deleted. In this regard, the Court has recorded the following

observations:- "7B) Question No. 55 12 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 13 ]

 possession or power of the mortgagee] of the mortgaged property, to
 deliver possession thereof to the mortgagor, and (c) at the cost of the
 mortgagor either to re-transfer the mortgaged property to him or to such
 third person as he may direct, or to execute and (where the mortgage
 has been effected by a registered instrument) to have registered an
 acknowledgment in writing that any right in derogation of his interest
 transferred to the mortgagee has been extinguished: xxxxxxxxxxxxx" 13 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 14 ]

 comes to an end only by the action of mortgagee when he secures
 orders for sale or foreclosure. Nevertheless the parties are debarred
 from entering into any agreement not to claim redemption which is a
 statutory right. Section 67 of Transfer of Property Act clearly makes right to
 foreclosure subject to contract to the contrary between the parties
 which means they can by agreement abrogate the right of foreclosure.
 In this way options B, C and D all are right options/ answers.
 Candidates have definitely been prejudiced in selecting right
 answer out of options B, C and D. Therefore, the Recruitment
 Committee was of the considered opinion that decision to delete
 this question (without awarding or deducting any marks) is
 justifiable and there is no need to change the same."
 And ultimately the decision has been taken that there is no impropriety

in deletion of the questions. We have heard learned counsel for the parties in respect of the first

question in detail and are of the considered opinion that the law has already

been settled by the Supreme Court in Ran Vijay Singh 's case (supra) to the

effect that "the entire examination process does not deserve to be derailed only

because some candidates are disappointed or dissatisfied or perceive some

injustice having been caused to them by an erroneous question or an erroneous

answer. All candidates suffer equally, though some might suffer more but that

cannot be helped since mathematical precision is not always possible. This

Court has shown one way out of an impasse - exclude the suspect or offending

question". Similar is the view expressed by the Supreme Court in Richal's case

(supra) wherein it has been held that "the questions having been deleted from

the answers, the question paper has to be treated as containing the question

less the deleted questions". In the said case, the matter was pertaining to the

redistribution of marks of the deleted questions. 14 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 15 ]

 In Varun Chandiok's case (supra), this Court, while referring to the

case of Guru Nanak Dev University's case (supra), has observed that

"numerous eventualities can be conceived as a result of such decision; such as,

a candidate, who has answered the questions correct, has been deprived of the

marks, whereas a candidate, who has not understood the questions correctly

and not attempted the same or attempted wrongly, would stand to benefit". It

has been further held that "the examining body is the most suitable to decide,

whether such questions are vague or the options are incorrect or not possible.

Such decision of the examining body has to be respected. The decision of the

examining body that questions need to be deleted cannot be said to be

arbitrary, unreasonable or irrational, which may warrant interference by this

Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction". In the present case also, we are of the considered opinion that the

examining body has not acted arbitrarily or irrationally at the time of deleting

the questions because it has been found that the deleted question carried more

than one correct answer, whereas the examinees have to choose only one

answer. The first question is, therefore, decided against the petitioners and in

favour of the respondents. At this stage, learned counsel for the petitioners have referred to a

decision of the Delhi High Court rendered in the case of Anjali Goswami &

Ors. vs. Registrar General, Delhi High Court, W.P.(C) No.963 of 2019,

decided on 30.01.2019 to contend that in cases where more than one correct

answer exists, the Court has ordered for awarding marks for choosing both the

answers in the said case. We have considered the judgment relied upon by the counsel for the

petitioners but the judgment rendered by this Court in Varun Chandiok's case

 15 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 16 ]

(supra) has to be followed in which it has been held that until and unless the

decision is arbitrary, unreasonable or irrational, it would not warrant

interference by this Court in exercise of its writ jurisdiction. Now, we would advert to the argument of the petitioners about

correctness of the decision of the respondents in deletion of certain questions.

It may be noticed that we have picked up the questions from Question Booklet

Code `A' and are referring to question Nos.35, 53, 100, 118, 56 and 61. The

initial answers given to all the aforesaid questions were `A', `D', `B', `A', `B'

and `E' respectively but at the time of re-consideration, on account of

objections received from the petitioners and other candidates, it has been found

that certain questions were carrying more than one correct answers, i.e. `A' &

`E' in question No.35, `B' & `C' in question No.53, `B' & `E' in question

No.100 and `B' & `D' in question No.118, whereas in question No.56, there

was erroneous spelling of Option `B' and in question No.61, all the options

were found to be correct and, thus, the said question was deleted. The

respondents have given justification in their reply about deletion of the

aforesaid questions, which is reproduced as under:- "A) Question No. 35 16 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 17 ]

 incorrect for the reason that the examination carries negative marking
 and any candidate, while exercising reasonable diligence and finding
 more than one correct options, would avoid attempting such a question.
 Consequently, a number of candidates might not have attempted such
 questions and thus, in order to avoid any prejudice being caused to any
 candidate, a conscious decision was taken to DELETE this question.
 Hence, Question No. 35 was DELETED. Both options 'B' and 'C' were correct. Hence applying the reasoning
 given by the Answering Respondent in response to Question No. 35, as
 aforesaid, mutatis mutandis to the instant question, the same was
 DELETED. Both options 'B' and 'E' were correct. Hence applying the reasoning
 given by the Answering Respondent in response to Question No. 35, as
 aforesaid, mutatis mutandis to the instant question, the same was
 DELETED. The judgment reported as AIR 1965 SC 1970 passed by a
 Constitution Bench of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India is not
 applicable or material for determining the correct answer to the
 aforesaid question in view of the fact that the Hon'ble Apex Court, in
 the aforesaid case, was not determining or considering the entitlement
 of a concubine to seeking maintenance under Section 125 Cr. PC. The

 17 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 18 ]

 matter considered by the Hon'ble Apex Court was restricted and
 limited to the entitlement of a concubine and her children to seek
 maintenance in terms of the mandate of the Hindu Adoptions and
 Maintenance Act, 1956 . The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, in its judgment rendered in Kamala v. M.R. Mohan Kumar, Criminal Appeal Nos . 2368 and 2369
 of 2009 decided on 24.10.2018, while examining various judgments
 rendered by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the context of Section 125 Cr.
 PC, has observed that only such a woman who had cohabitated
 continuously with a man for a number of years, leading to a
 presumption in law to be drawn in favour of marriage and against
 concubinage, would be entitled to seek maintenance under Section 125 Cr. PC. In view of the aforesaid judgment, it is thus evident and clear
 that an unmarried sister as well as a concubine were not entitled to
 claim maintenance under Section 125 Cr. PC. Consequently, in view
 two correct answers to the aforesaid question, the same was
 DELETED. Options 'B', 'C' and 'E' were the correct answers. A Muslim gift is not
 compulsorily registrable and consequently, whether it is said that such a
 gift is optionally registrable or not necessary to be registered are one
 and the same thing. Therefore, on account of existence of more than
 one correct answer to the aforesaid question/incomplete phrase, the
 above mentioned question was DELETED while adopting the same
 yardstick as followed in respect of the Question Nos. 35, 53 and 100.
 The detailed reasoning given in response to Question No. 35 in the
 instant written statement may kindly be read as a part of the instant
 paragraph/question as well. 18 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 19 ]

 B. Jus in peronum
 C. Ubi jus ibi remedium
 D. None of the above" 19 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 20 ]

 Hon'ble Kerala High Court on 9.2.1959 and held office till 5.4.1967.
 Thus, as none of the options gave the correct answer, the aforesaid
 question was DELETED." Learned counsel for the petitioners, while referring to question No.35,

has submitted that although the respondents have alleged that there are two (`A'

& `E') correct answers but as per Section 2(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure,

1908, there are many other circumstances in which there would not be a decree. In this regard, learned counsel for the respondents has submitted that the

form of the question has to be read in order to find out the answer and the sine

qua non was that the examinee has to find out only one correct option amongst

the options given. We are in agreement with the explanation given by the

respondents that the Option `A'- "dismissed in default" is the right answer

because a suit/case dismissed in default cannot be a decree and at the same time

Option `E', which also says the Option `A', should not have been there.

Therefore, because of this confusion, which has been crept in, the question

itself has rightly been deleted by the respondents. Insofar as question No.53 is concerned, the initial answer given by the

respondents was Option `D', i.e. all the circumstances mentioned in Options

`A', `B' and `C', but on reconsideration, it has been found that the Options `B'

& `C' both are correct answers and in this regard, learned counsel for the

respondents has drawn the attention of this Court to Section 12 of the Specific

Relief Act, 1963 (hereinafter referred to as the "Act'), which reads as under:- 20 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 21 ]

 proportion to the whole in value and admits of compensation in money,
 the court may, at the suit of either party, direct the specific performance
 of so much of the contract as can be performed, and award
 compensation in money for the deficiency. (3) Where a party to a contract is unable to perform the whole of his
 part of it, and the part which must be left unperformed either- he is not entitled to obtain a decree for specific performance; but
 the court may, at the suit of other party, direct the party in
 default to perform specifically so much of his part of the
 contract as he can perform, if the other party- (i) in a case falling under clause (a), pays or has paid
 the agreed consideration for the whole of the
 contract reduced by the consideration for the part
 which must be left unperformed and a case falling
 under clause (b), 2[pays or had paid] the
 consideration for the whole of the contract
 without any abatement; and (ii) in either case, relinquished all claims to the
 performance of the remaining part of the contract
 and all right to compensation, either for the
 deficiency or for the loss or damage sustained by
 him through the default of the defendant. (4) When apart of a contract which, taken by itself, can and ought to
 be specifically performed, stands on a separate and independent footing
 from another part of the same contract which cannot or ought not to be
 specifically performed, the court may direct specific performance of the
 former part. Explanation: For the purposes of this section, a party to a contract shall
 be deemed to be unable to perform the whole of his part of it if a
 portion of its subject matter existing at the date of the contract has
 ceased to exist at the time of its performance." 21 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 22 ]

 It is submitted that Section 12(1) of the Act deals with Option `B' and Section 12(2) of the Act deals with Option `C' but the knowledge of the entire Section 12 deals with the Option `A'. We have considered the explanation given by the learned counsel for the

respondents and have found it to be plausible, therefore, this question has also

rightly been deleted by the respondents. Insofar as question No.100 is concerned, the initial answer given was

Option `B', i.e. unmarried sister, but the respondents have given explanation

that since Options `B' & `E' both were correct, therefore, the said question was

deleted. In this regard, reference could be had to the explanation of the

respondents given in the reply, which has already been reproduced here-in-

above. After going through the reply given by the respondents, we are of the

considered opinion that there is no error in it. Insofar as question No.118 is concerned, the initial answer given by the

respondents was Option `A' but ultimately it has been found that there were

more than two correct answers to this question, i.e. Options `B, `D' and `E'.

Since there were three correct answers available in the given options, therefore,

after thoroughly considering all the options, the respondents found that in view

of the mistake having been committed by the examiner in giving three correct

options for the said question, the irresistible conclusion taken was to delete the

said question. We do not find any error in this regard in the decision of the

respondents. Insofar as question No.56 is concerned, much arguments have been

addressed by the learned counsel for the parties in this regard. The said

question has been deleted because Option `B' was mentioned as "jus in

 22 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 23 ]

peronum". Counsel for the respondents has given the reasoning that there is no

phrase as "jus in peronum". It is submitted that the options given in this

question are all of Latin words and since there is no such word given in Option-

B "jus in peronum" and the last Option `D' "none of the above" was also there,

therefore, they have to delete the entire question. Counsel for the petitioners has referred to question No.62 and question

No.79 of Question Booklet Code `A', which reads as under:- 23 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 24 ]

one Indian who has won the "justice prize", namely, Sh. Fali S. Nariman,

Senior Advocate and, therefore, this question did not deserve deletion. We are in agreement with the contention of the learned counsel for the

respondents in this regard. Counsel for the petitioners have referred to the decision of this Court

rendered in Monika Goyal 's case (supra) in which there was a typographical

error in question No.27, which reads as under:- 24 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 25 ]

 question booklet Code A vis-à-vis candidates who attempted question
 booklets code B, C and D. It is not out of place to mention here that a
 similar typographical mistake was reported during the examination in a
 question No.26 of Code B (86 of Code A) and it was ordered to be
 deleted to avoid any disadvantage to any candidate. On the same
 analogy, question No.27 has been deleted finding the objections as
 valid. On deletion of question, no marks have been awarded or
 deducted. Accordingly, the Recruitment Committee found to change
 the decision already taken. Our decision - It transpires that there was a printing mistake in this question only in
 the Booklet Code 'A', which has also been highlighted by us in Bold
 Font while reproducing the question earlier. Undoubtedly, the Question
 as printed in the concerned Booklet is Grammatically incorrect,
 although a common sense inference might be drawn that what was
 being asked is which of the given Answers could be described as
 'Immovable Property' under Section 3 of the Transfer of Property Act.
 The Committee however chose to play safe and therefore deleted this
 question altogether on the premise that it could have prejudiced some
 of the candidates, who were provided with the Booklet Code 'A'.
 Admittedly, there was no printing mistake in relation to this question in
 Booklets 'B', 'C' and 'D'. It emerges that the question was deleted
 only after the examination had already been completed. Consequently,
 three quarters (3/4ths) of the candidates in whose booklets, where there
 was no mistake, surely stand to be prejudiced for deletion of this
 question after they had attempted it and presumably given the correct
 answer. Even in relation to the small typographical error in the question
 where the letter 'f' has been printed in place of the words 'is' or 'can be',
 our view is that question was certainly capable of being understood by
 any average student of Law conversant with the relevant Section of the
 Transfer of Property Act. We therefore, are of the opinion that total
 deletion of this question was not justified. On the other hand, we can
 protect the interest of any affected candidates who were supplied with
 the question booklet 'A' by awarding full marks to those of them who
 had answered this question correctly by choosing the initial correct
 option of 'C' and not penalizing with negative marking in case of the
 candidates from this particular segment (supplied with booklet-A) who

 25 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 26 ]

 had chosen an incorrect option, to preclude any prejudice to anyone due
 to the visible printing error." But there were four booklets `A', `B', `C' and `D' and the

mistake/misprinting only occurred in booklet `A' and there was no mistake in

booklets `B', `C' and `D'. Consequently, there were three quarters (3/4th) of

the candidates whose booklets had no mistake with regard to that question,

therefore, in case the said question is deleted, then it would prejudicially affect

the interest of those candidates. Thus, the reasoning given by the respondents in this regard is accepted

because in this case, question No.56 is the same in all the four booklets. Insofar as question No.79 is concerned, counsel for the petitioners have

submitted that the word "dolyincapax" has been wrongly spelt because the

actual spelling is "doli incapax", whereas in the said question, the word has

been spelt as "dolyincapax". In this regard, learned counsel for the respondents has submitted that

change of an alphabet (i) in a latin word cannot change the whole complexion

of that word, which can easily be understood by a student of law because the

word "doli incapax" has a reference in regard to Section 82 of the IPC which

can easily be understood. We are totally in agreement with the contention of the learned counsel

for the respondents in this regard. Insofar as question No.61 is concerned, initially the answer was given as

Option `E' but ultimately it has been found that all the options were incorrect

because Justice Leila Seth was the first woman Chief Justice of any High Court

in India and not the first woman High Court Judge in India and in fact Justice

Anna Chandy was the first woman in India to become a High Court Judge

when she was elevated as a Judge of the Kerala High Court. Thus, none of the

 26 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 27 ]

options given in the question gave the correct answer and the respondents have

rightly chosen to delete that question. In view of the above, we do not find the action taken by the respondents

of deletion of aforesaid questions to be arbitrary, unreasonable or irrational and,

thus, we answer the first question accordingly. The second question is in regard to the two questions which, according

to the petitioners, were posed out of the syllabus. The said two questions are as

under:- Learned counsel for the petitioners have sought to argue that question

No.6 has been set down by the examiner from the Transfer of Property Act,

1882 and question No.83 has been set down from the Indian Easement Act,

1882 , which are not the part of syllabus. In this regard, they have relied upon

para 12 of the advertisement to contend that it has been categorically mentioned

that "the objective type multiple-choice questions for the Preliminary

Examination shall be from the syllabus for the Main Examination". He has

 27 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 28 ]

also referred to the syllabus of the main examination, which is reproduced here-

as-under:- 28 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 29 ] Property Act, 1882 and the Indian Easement Act, 1882 are conspicuous by their

absence in both the papers. The question, thus, arose as to whether the

petitioners have been taken by surprise by the examiner by inserting these two

questions in the question paper. Had the questions been inserted from some

subjects other than law, then the matter would have been different but since the

examinees are aspirants to become judicial officers, the said questions have

been asked by the examiner generally to test their legal aptitude. In this regard,

counsel for the respondents has referred to the following part of para 12 of the

advertisement:- We are sanguine of the fact that the petitioners, who are appearing in

such a prestigious examination after completing their 5 or 3 years law degree,

must have read all these subjects during their studies and, therefore, these two

questions were not put in regard to the provisions of law but were put generally

to test as to whether the candidates actually have the knowledge of law beyond

the syllabus. Thus, we do not find any error on the part of the respondents in

asking these two questions from the candidates as the said questions are meant

for testing the legal aptitude of the candidates who are aspiring to become

judges and expected to have a general and basic overview of the various

subjects of law and also the ability to answer questions on current events of

national and international importance. We answer the second question accordingly. 29 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 30 ]

 Insofar as the third question is concerned, counsel for the petitioners

have submitted that the respondents have erred in revising the answer key of

three question Nos.111, 18 and 38. They have submitted that earlier, the

answer of these three questions was Options `A', `D' and `C' respectively,

which have been revised to Options `B', `A' and `A' respectively. Counsel for the petitioners have submitted that the revision of the answer

key is totally wrong. In this regard, it is argued that in question No.111, Option

`A' was correct because the question was put "delay in filing the suit _____" A close look on the above provision provides that every suit instituted,

appeal preferred, and application made after the prescribed period shall be

dismissed although limitation has not been set up as a defence, which means

that if there is any delay, it cannot be condoned but Order 7 Rule 6 of the CPC ,

to which reference has been made by the petitioners, reads as under:- In this regard, counsel for the respondents has submitted that the

question was plain and simple that what would happen in case the suit is filed

with delay and according to the respondents, as per the Limitation Act, 1963 , if

the suit is instituted after the prescribed period, then the delay cannot be

condoned. It is further submitted that had the language of the question been

 31 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 32 ]

that where the delay in the institution of a suit after expiration of the limitation

can be condoned by invoking exemption of any law, then perhaps the Option

`A' could have been taken into consideration. We are in full agreement with the contention of the learned counsel for

the respondents and, thus, the objection raised by the petitioners is hereby

rejected. Question Nos.18 and 38 and the reply given by the respondents in regard

to those questions is reproduced here-as-under for ready reference:- "Question No. 18 The correct answer is option 'A'. Section 145 Evidence Act, 1872 is
 unambiguously worded in so far as wherever a witness is sought to be
 contradicted with an earlier statement of the in writing, he is required to
 be shown those parts of his earlier statement in writing relevant for the
 purpose of contradicting him before the said writing can be proved.
 Thus, it is not necessary at that stage to prove the earlier statement in
 writing before showing the same to the witness. Consequently, where
 the aspect of proving the previous statement in writing was to be
 deliberated upon or done after showing the relevant portion of the
 earlier statement for the purpose of the confronting/contradicting a
 witness, the suggestion made by the Petitioner for declaring option 'D'
 as the correct answer is legally untenable and the correct answer is
 required to be maintained as option 'A'. 32 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 33 ]

 A. Substantially
 B. Beyond reasonable doubt
 C. Prima facie
 D. None of these" 33 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 34 ]

 writing can be proved, be called to those parts of it which are to be used
 for the purpose of contradicting him." According to the petitioners, the first part of the said provision deals

with the word "showing" and later part deals with the word "attention". In this

regard, counsel for the respondents has submitted that merely the use of word

"attention" would not mean that the document/statement, with which a witness

is intended to be contradicted, cannot be shown to him. The explanation given in the reply is not such which can be said to be

demonstrably or palpably erroneous and since we do not find any substance in

the arguments raised by the counsel for the petitioners, therefore, the objection

raised by the petitioners in this regard is overruled. Insofar as question No.38 is concerned, the petitioners have alleged that

in criminal trials, the accused has to establish his plea for mitigation or

justification of an offence prima facie, whereas the respondents have found that

it cannot be prima facie but has to be substantial. In this regard, counsel for

the petitioners have referred to Section 105 of the Evidence Act, 1872, whereas

the counsel for the respondents has referred to a decision of the Supreme Court

rendered in the case of Krishnan vs. State of Tamil Nadu , 2006(3) Crimes

257 and more particularly, referred to paragraph 9 of this judgment, which

reads as under:- In Sekar vs. State [2002 (8) SCC 354], this Court observed : A plea of
 right of private defence cannot be based on surmises and speculation.
 While considering whether the right of private defence is available to
 an accused, it is not relevant whether he may have a chance to inflict
 severe and mortal injury on the aggressor. In order to find whether right
 of private defence is available or not, the injuries received by the
 accused, the imminence of threat to his safety, the injuries caused by
 the accused and the circumstances whether the accused had time to
 have recourse to public authorities are all relevant factors to be
 considered. Whether in a particular set of circumstances, a person acted
 in the exercise of the right of private defence, is a question of fact to be
 determined on the facts and circumstances of each case. No test in the
 abstract for determining such a question can be laid down. In
 determining this question of fact, the Court must consider all the
 surrounding circumstances. It is not necessary for the accused to plead
 in so many words that he acted in self-defence. If the circumstances
 show that the right of private defence was legitimately exercised, it is
 open to the Court to consider such a plea. In a given case, the Court can
 consider it even if the accused has not taken it. If the same is available
 to be considered from the material on record. (emphasis supplied). The above legal position was reiterated in Rizan v. State of
 Chhattisgarh [2003 (2) SCC 661]. After an exhaustive reference to
 several decisions of this Court, this Court summarized the nature of

 35 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 36 ]

 plea of private defence required to be put forth and the degree of proof
 in support of it, thus : In view of the above, we have found the explanation given by the

respondents to be justified and, thus, this objection is also rejected. Thus, the 3rd question is answered accordingly. Insofar as the 4th question is concerned, various other questions have

been brought to the notice of the Court about which they have claimed that the

respondents should have either changed the answer key or deleted the said

questions. The said questions are question Nos.40, 49, 62, 112, 114, 117, 27, 6,

 36 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 37 ]

9, 47 and 85. The respondents have given explanation regarding almost all the

questions, which reads as under:- G) Question No. 40 The correct answer is 'D'. The form of question is self-explanatory in the
 sense that the candidates were required to answer in what context the Hon'ble
 Apex Court rendered its judgment in the year 2017 i.e. Justice K.S.
 Puttaswamy (Retd.) Vs. UOI and Others, AIR 2017 SC 4161 holding that the
 right to privacy was protected under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.
 For this purpose, reference is required to be made to the aforesaid judgment
 and the reason behind Constitution of a Nine Judge Bench of the Hon'ble
 Apex Court to determine whether Right to Privacy was also protected under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The factually narration behind
 constitution of the Nine Judges Bench and the underlying reason for the same
 were extracted in the lead judgment rendered by Hon'ble Mr. Justice D.Y.
 Chandrachud, the relevant paragraphs under the Section 'Reference' are
 extracted hereunder:- 37 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 38 ]

 Petitioners was that M P Sharma and Kharak Singh were founded on
 principles expounded in A K Gopalan v. State of Madras , AIR 1950
 SC 27 ("Gopalan"). Gopalan, which construed each provision
 contained in the Chapter on fundamental rights as embodying a distinct
 protection, was held not to be good law by an eleven-judge Bench in Rustom Cavasji Cooper v. Union of India , (1970) 1 SCC 248
 ("Cooper"). Hence the Petitioners submitted that the basis of the two
 earlier decisions is not valid. Moreover, it was also urged that in the
 seven-judge Bench decision in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India ,
 (1978) 1 SCC 248 ("Maneka"), the minority judgment of Justice
 Subba Rao in Kharak Singh was specifically approved of and the
 decision of the majority was overruled. 4. While addressing these challenges, the Bench of three judges of this
 Court took note of several decisions of this Court in which the right to
 privacy has been held to be a constitutionally protected fundamental
 right. Those decisions include: Gobind v. State of Madhya Pradesh ,
 (1975) 2 SCC 148 ('Gobind"), R Rajagopal v. State of Tamil Nadu,
 (1994) 6 SCC 632 ("Rajagopal") and People's Union for Civil
 Liberties v. Union of India , (1997) 1 SCC 301 ("PUPCL"). These
 subsequent decisions which affirmed the existence of a constitutionally
 protected right of privacy, were rendered by Benches of a strength
 smaller than those in M P Sharma and Kharak Singh. Faced with this
 predicament and having due regard to the far-reaching questions of
 importance involving interpretation of the Constitution, it was felt that
 institutional integrity and judicial discipline would require a reference
 to a larger Bench. Hence the Bench of three learned judges observed in
 its order dated 11 August 2015: 13. Therefore, in our opinion to give a quietus to the kind of
 controversy raised in this batch of cases once for all, it is better
 that the ratio decidendi of M.P. Sharma (supra) and Kharak
 Singh (supra) is scrutinized and the jurisprudential correctness
 of the subsequent decisions of this Court where the right to
 privacy is either asserted or referred be examined and
 authoritatively decided by a Bench of appropriate strength." 5. On 18 July 2017, a Constitution Bench presided over by the learned
 Chief Justice considered it appropriate that the issue be resolved by a
 Bench of nine judges. The order of the Constitution Bench reads thus: That further, Part-I of the judgment authored by Hon'ble Mr. Justice S.A.
 Bobde also refers to the Aadhaar project and makes reference to the biometric

 39 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 40 ]

 scheme introduced by the Government of India. Thus, the question being
 generic in nature, option 'D' was the correct answer in so far as the 2017
 judgment of the Hon'ble Apex Court holding right to privacy as being
 protected under Article 21 of the Constitution of India was rendered in the
 context of rivaling questions/claims and counter claims in respect of the
 constitutional validity of the Biometric Identification Scheme introduced by
 the Government of India where the Hon'ble Apex Court was seized of an issue
 regarding constitutional validity of such a scheme and whether the same
 infringed the Fundamental Right of a Citizen of India under Article 21 of the
 Constitution of India. As the aforesaid judgement was rendered by the
 Hon'ble Apex Court in the context of the Indian Biometric Identification
 Scheme, thus option 'D' was the correct answer. Option 'C' is the correct answer. As per Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act,
 1963 any person who is dispossessed without his consent from immovable
 property otherwise than in due course of law, may file a suit to recover
 possession thereof within a period of six months from the date of
 dispossession. Thus, for agitating a claim in respect of wrongful dispossession,
 the person ought to have been in possession of immovable property in the first
 place. A mere trespasser is not entitled to claim the remedy under Section 6 of
 the Specific Relief Act, 1963 and only a trespasser in settled possession of
 immovable property claim seek recourse to the aforesaid remedy. In view of
 the judgment passed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Rame Gowda (D) By
 Lrs v. M. Varadappa Naidu (D) By Lrs . & Anr, in Civil Appeal 7662 of 1997,
 only a trespasser in settled possession can file the suit under Section 6 of the
 Specific Relief Act, 1963. In option 'D', only the word trespasser has been
 used and not a trespasser in settled possession and consequently, a mere
 trespasser, in the absence of being in settled possession, could legally not
 institute a suit under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 as a result
 whereof, option 'D' is not the correct answer but, instead, the right option is
 'C'. 40 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 41 ] I) Question No. 62 "62________ won the "first justice prize" from India who is also
 named as "Living Legend of Law" by the International Bar
 Association? Option 'B' is the correct answer. As a matter of fact, whereas Anthony
 Gubbay, former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe was the first
 recipient of the Justice Prize, the first Indian to win the Justice Prize was Mr.
 Fali S. Nariman, Senior Advocate and thus option 'B' is the correct answer. J) Question No. 112 41 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 42 ]

 both independent and not mutually exclusive, as a result whereof, option 'A' is
 the correct answer to the aforesaid question. According to her, there was no judgment delivered by the Supreme Court in the

year 2017 in regard to Article 21 of the Constitution of India and the only

judgment which was delivered by the Supreme Court in 2017 is in regard to

"Indian Biometric Identification Scheme", which is commonly called as

"Aadhaar". In view of the above, we are one with the contention raised by the

counsel for the respondents and, thus, the objection raised by the petitioners in

this regard is rejected. Insofar as question No.49 is concerned, the answer given by the

respondent is Option `C', whereas the petitioners have claimed that it should

have been Options `C' and `D' both. The argument of the petitioners is that

Option `D' is correct as a trespasser can also file a suit under Section 6 of the

 44 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 45 ] Specific Relief Act, 1963 . Learned counsel for the respondents has submitted

that a trespasser in settled possession alone can file a suit against a true owner. In this regard, she has relied upon a decision of the Supreme Court rendered in

the case of Rame Gowda (D) by LRs v. M. Varadappa Naidu (D) by LRs &

anr., Civil Appeal No.7662 of 1997, in which it has been held that a trespasser

in settled possession can file the suit under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act,

1963. It is further submitted that the examiner wanted to test the knowledge of

the examinees else he would have definitely mentioned in one of the answers to

the question, a trespasser in settled possession. Since it has been categorically

mentioned "a trespasser", therefore, the answer cannot be "a trespasser" and it

should have been "a trespasser in settled possession" because a trespasser, may

be for a short period, cannot file a suit under Section 6 of the Act of 1963. In

view thereof, the answer given by the respondents is found to be correct. Insofar as question No.62 is concerned, the answer given by the

respondents is Option `B', whereas according to the petitioners, it should have

been Option `D'. Their whole argument is that the question is confusing

because the words "first justice prize" have been incorporated in the question,

whereas it should have been "justice prize". We do not agree with the contention raised by the petitioners because if

the question is read as a whole, then it comes out to be "won the first justice

prize from India" who is also named as "Living Legend of Law" by the

International Bar Association and it is very easily understandable that the first

justice prize winner from India is Fali S. Nariman, Senior Advocate, who is

also named as "Living Legend of Law" by the International Bar Association. Thus, the contention raised by the petitioners in this regard is repelled. 45 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 46 ]

 Insofar as question No.112 is concerned, counsel for the petitioners have

submitted that the answer given by the respondents, i.e. Option `A', is wrong

because they have alleged that it should have been Option `D' because Section

3 and Section 14 of the Limitation Act are not mutually exclusive as both are

not against each other. Counsel for the respondents has explained that Section 3 of the

Limitation Act, 1963 would provide that the suit, if filed beyond the period

prescribed, shall have to be dismissed, whereas Section 14 of the Act provides

the exclusion of time period of limitation for any suit for which the plaintiff has

been prosecuting with due diligence before a wrong forum. Thus, as per Section 14 of the Act, the aforesaid period can be excluded for the purpose of

bringing the suit within the period of limitation. Thus, Sections 3 and 14 are

independent where Section 14 has no applicability in the facts of the case and,

thus, both are independent and operate in different fields. However, where an

application under Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963 has been filed and

warrants adjudication and wherever such an application is found to be

meritorious, the time period spent by a litigant in proceedings before a wrong

forum in a bona fide manner would have to be excluded from the period of

limitation and the bar of limitation under Section 3 would thus be subject to the

provisions contained in Section 14 of the Limitation Act. Thus, the objection raised by the petitioners in this regard is hereby

rejected. Insofar as question No.114 is concerned, it has not been pressed by the

petitioners and, therefore, it is not delved into by this Court. Insofar as question No.27 is concerned, the answer given by the

respondents is Option `D', whereas according to the petitioners, it should have

 46 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 47 ]

been Option `B'. The question was as to what is the effect of opinion of the

experts upon the Court and in this regard, Option `D' says both `B' and `C', i.e.

"only advisory in nature" and "the judge can form an opinion contrary to that of

expert". The explanation given by the respondents is that admittedly, an

opinion of the expert is only advisory in nature and the judge can form an

opinion other than that of the expert, whereas the explanation given by the

petitioners is that the question is "what is the effect of the opinion of the

expert" would carry one answer and Option `B' is the right answer and not

Options `B' and `C' both. We are not satisfied with the explanation given by the petitioners

because the effect of opinion of the experts upon the Court is only advisory in

nature as the judge can also form an opinion contrary to that of the expert,

therefore, the answer Option `D' is found to be more appropriate and hence, the

objection raised by the petitioners in this regard is also rejected. Insofar as Question No.6 is concerned, it pertains to a non-testamentary

document. The answer given by the respondents is Option `D' which says "all

the above", whereas according to the petitioners, it should have been Option

`A' only. However, a testamentary document is a Will while all other

documents are non-testamentary in nature. For example, a document like a sale

deed not only becomes operative immediately on its execution but is also final

and irrevocable until and unless it is challenged before the Court of law by way

of a suit for declaration on the ground of fraud and misrepresentation. Thus, the explanation given by the respondents in respect of their answer

seems to be correct and hence, the objection raised by the respondents is hereby

rejected. 47 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 48 ]

 Now, we would deal with questions Nos.9, 47 and 85, which read as

under:- 48 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 49 ]

Ors., 2010(7) SCC 263. She has also referred to paragraph 223 of the said

judgment in which it has been held that at the time of hearing, the person in

question should also be told in clear terms that the statement that is made shall

not be a "confessional" statement to the Magistrate but will have the status of a

statement made to the police. She has also referred to Section 27 of the Indian

Evidence Act, 1872 to contend that the voluntary confession during the course

of investigation is a disclosure statement, which alone is relevant in case it

leads to any discovery. In this regard, learned counsel for the petitioners has submitted that the

question is not pertaining to discovery of facts but it pertains to the confession. The argument raised by the petitioners to support their contention that

the answer should be Option `B' cannot be taken to be correct because the

ultimate effect is to be seen of a voluntary confession of an accused while

undergoing narco- analysis test because the said statement would lead to

discovery of a fact. Thus, the objection raised by the petitioners with regard to this question

is also rejected. Insofar as question No.47 is concerned, the respondents have given the

answer as Option `A' which includes all the four answers, whereas according to

the petitioners, it should have been Option `B', i.e. all the options but for

answer II that a decree of declaration cannot be prayed as a matter of right. Counsel for the respondents has sought to argue that the relief of

declaration cannot be prayed as a matter of right and in this regard, she has

submitted that if the suit, which is per se fraudulent , in that case , the person has

no right to seek declaration. For example, if a person knows that the State is

universally known as owner of a particular property, then any suit for

 49 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 50 ]

declaration of ownership of that property cannot be entertained and has to be

rejected at the threshold. Thus, we are one with the explanation given by the respondents in regard

to this question and hence, the objection raised by the petitioner is hereby

rejected. Last but not the least, question No.85 pertains to a person who has no

right to partition under Hindu Law. The answer given by the respondents

before revision was Option `A', which was maintained as such in the final

revised answer key as well that a mother has no right to partition under Hindu

Law. Counsel for the petitioners have referred to Section 10 of the Hindu

Succession Act, 1956 and submitted that mother is the legal heir who would

succeed to the property of her son and once she would succeed to the property,

then she would also have a right to partition, whereas counsel for the

respondents has submitted that the examinee has not read the question carefully

as it does not talk of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 but only about the Hindu

Law. Section 4 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has an overriding effect

upon any text, rule or interpretation or Hindu Law or any custom or usage as

part of that law in force immediately before the commencement of the Act with

respect to any matter for which provision is made in the Act of 1956. Section 4 of the Act of 1956 is reproduced as under:- 50 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 51 ] (b) any other law in force immediately before the commencement
 of this Act shall cease to apply to Hindus in so far as it is
 inconsistent with any of the provisions contained in this Act."

 It is submitted that as per the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 , all matters of

customary law which were in force immediately before the commencement of

the Act of 1956 would cease to have effect with respect to a matter for which

provisions have been made in the Act of 1956. So, insofar as the partition of an

immovable property amongst the Hindus is concerned, it is not made part of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and in this regard, counsel for the respondents has

referred to Chapter XVI of Mulla Hindu Law and more particularly, paras 305,

315 and 352, which state that a mother, under Dayabhaga Law as also under

Mitakshara Law, cannot herself demand a partition but if a partition takes place

between her sons, she is entitled to a share equal to that of a son. We are in full agreement with the explanation given by the respondents

in regard to this question and hence, the objection raised by the petitioners is

rejected. Insofar as question No.117 is concerned, the same along with reply

given by the respondents in regard thereto is reproduced hereunder for ready

reference:- "M) Question No. 117 The Ordinance does not prescribe if the offence is bailable or
 non-bailable. However, plain reading of Section 7 (c) read with Section
 4 of the Ordinance goes to show that the offence is bailable, but the
 accused shall not be released on bail unless an application is filed by
 the accused and opportunity of being heard is afforded to the aggrieved
 Muslim women and the Magistrate is satisfied that there exist
 reasonable grounds for granting bail. The maximum sentence
 prescribed under Section 4 of the Ordinance is term of imprisonment
 which may extend to three years and fine also. As the Ordinance does
 not specifically prescribe that the offence shall be bailable or non-
 bailable, hence, the provisions of the General Law i.e. Part II of the
 First Schedule appended with the Code of Criminal Procedure shall
 apply, which provides that if the offence is punishable with
 imprisonment for three years and upwards but not more than 7 years it
 shall be non-bailable and if punishable within imprisonment for less
 than three years or with a fine only, it shall be a bailable. Therefore, it cannot be said that declaration of Talaq under the
 Ordinance is a non-bailable offence as has been claimed by the
 Petitioner. Therefore, Option 'A' is the correct answer. 52 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 53 ]

 In this question, the answer given by the respondents is Option `A', i.e.

the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriages) Ordinance, 2018

provides for declaration of instant triple talaq illegal and criminalizes it and it

entitles Muslim women against whom triple talaq has been declared to seek

subsistence allowance from her husband for herself and for her dependent

children. Whereas, according to the petitioners, the answer to this question

should have been Option `C' that includes the answer II as well that makes

declaration of talaq a non-bailable offence. In this regard, counsel for the petitioners have referred to Section 7 of

the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Ordinance, 2018, which

reads as under:- It is apparent that there is a mistake committed by the respondents as Section 7 of the Ordinance categorically provides that the Magistrate can reject

the bail application if he is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for doing

 53 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 54 ]

so. If that is so, then the offence becomes non-bailable. Even otherwise, for a

bailable offence, the Magistrate does not have the power to consider any

grounds for the purpose of grant or rejection of bail. Counsel for the respondents has also referred to various other judgment

of the Supreme Court rendered in the cases of U.P.P.S.C., Through its Chairman & Anr. vs. Rahul Singh & Anr. , 2018( 3) S.C.T. 298, Ran Vijay

Singh 's case ( supra), H.P. Public Service Commission vs. Mukesh Thakur

& Anr. , 2010( 6) SCC 759, Kanpur University and others vs. Samir Gupta

and others , 1983(4) SCC 309 and a judgment of the Kerala High Court

rendered in the case of H. Nowfal vs. Kerala Public Service Commission ,

2014(22) S.C.T. 662 to contend that no challenge is allowed to be made about

the correctness of the answer key until and unless it is demonstrably and

palpably erroneous. There is no dispute about this proposition of law that the answer key can

only be interfered with when the Court finds that it is demonstrably and

palpably erroneous. Out of the aforesaid so many questions, we could only

find the answer key of this question No.117 to be demonstrably and palpably

erroneous because the answer runs contrary to the Ordinance itself. We do not

accept the explanation which is sought to be given by the learned Senior

Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents that in Bill No.247 of 2017, i.e.

The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017, introduced

in the Parliament, which has ultimately turned out to be an Ordinance, Section

7 specifically recorded that notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of

Criminal Procedure , 1973, an offence punishable under this Act shall be

cognizable and non-bailable within the meaning of the said Code. However,

the aforesaid Bill was not passed by the Parliament and eventually the

 54 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 55 ]

Ordinance dated 19.09.2018 was notified wherein a change had been made in Section 7 and the phrase "non-bailable" was deleted. The submission of the counsel for the respondents is not correct as the

Bill has nothing to do with the Ordinance because it is only the Ordinance

which has the force of law, in which bail cannot be claimed as a matter of right

until and unless the Court satisfies itself about the facts and circumstances for

the purpose of its grant or rejection. Thus, the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the respondents

in regard to this question is hereby rejected and Option `C' is held to be the

correct answer to aforesaid question No.117. In view of the aforesaid detailed discussion, all the writ petitions are

hereby disposed of accordingly with a direction to the respondents to award

marks to the remaining candidates who have attempted question No.117

(question number may be different in other three booklets) rightly by choosing

Option `C' and revise the result of all the remaining candidates accordingly

within a period of one week from today and in case the candidates secure more

than the cut off marks in their respective category(ies) after revision of result,

such candidates shall be allowed to file their examination paper for their

appearance in the main written examination de hors the fact that the

respondents have invited only 10 times candidates against the available

vacancies. We further make it clear that pursuant to these directions, those

candidates who have already been declared qualified to appear at the main

examination, shall not be affected and only those additional candidates who

reach the score of the last qualified candidate in the original result as a

consequence of such re-marking shall be treated as qualified to so appear at the

 55 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 56 ]

main examination. This benefit of being declared qualified after such re-

marking shall be applicable to all candidates irrespective of whether or not they

had approached the court for not having been declared qualified in the original

result. Before parting, we would refer to the decision of the Supreme Court

rendered in the case of Manish Ujwal and others vs. Maharishi Dayanand

Saraswati University and others , 2005(6) SLR 451, in which there was a

dispute about the answer key and the Supreme Court has made the following

observations:- 56 of 57 ::: Downloaded on - 17-02-2019 08:31:19 ::: CWP No.2943 of 2019 and other connected cases [ 57 ]

 taking appropriate action, including the disciplinary action, against
 those responsible for wrong and demonstrably erroneous key answers
 but we refrain from issuing such directions in the present case."
 Thus, we issue only a piece of advice to the respondents to be very

careful in future with regard to framing of questions and finalizing the answer

key(s) whenever any competitive examination is to be held by them.