By the instant petition filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C.
petitioner is seeking quashing of FIR registered against him vide Crime
No. 87/2022 at Police Station Civil Lines, Chhatarpur, District
Chhatarpur for the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 120-B of
the Indian Penal Code,1860. 2. As per the case of the prosecution, an FIR was lodged on
16.02.2022 at about 13.52 hours for an incident alleged to have occurred
on 30.06.2020 at about 12.00 noon wherein it was alleged that the first
informant Seema Rajput @ Sadhna Rajput, d/o Shri Barnarayan Rajput,
aged about 24 years was a resident of Village Shyavan, Police Station
Ajnar, District Mahoba (U.P.) and was prosecuting her GNM studies in
Kamla Modern College Jhansi. It is alleged that she started whatsapp
chatting with the present petitioner and thereafter they started talking on
whatsapp. It is alleged that on 30.06.2020, at about 12.00 hours, the
present petitioner and one Ramjan Saudagar met the complainant at
Panna Naka Chhatarpur and thereafter present petitioner took her to C-
Nit Colony to his house and on the pretext of marriage he committed
sexual intercourse with the complainant. At that time, co-accused
Ramjan Saudagar was sitting outside the room. Later on, the
complainant came to know that the petitioner was already married and
even after asking repeatedly, the petitioner refused to marry the
complainant. As such FIR got lodged against the petitioner. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that there is a
delay in lodging the FIR. He has submitted that the alleged incident took 3 on 30.06.2020 but the report of the incident was lodged on 06.02.2022.
He has submitted that the complainant is operating a racket of honey
trap to extract money from the innocent persons and the present case is
also a case of honey trap. He has submitted that the complainant is a
leader of the said racket. She is also an accused in a crime which reflects
from the fact that she filed a bail application i.e. MCRC No.
18694/2021-Seema Rajput @ Sadhna Rajput vs. State of M.P.. He has
submitted that although the present petitioner has been made accused in
the present case but he never developed the physical relation with the
complainant. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner has also submitted the
petitioner has been made accused because he lodged an FIR against the
complainant, which was registered vide Crime No. 443/2020 at Police
Station Civil Lines Chhatarpur for the offence under Section 384 and 120-B of IPC and thereafter complainant was arrested and was sent to
jail. He has submitted that in the said case i.e. Crime No. 443/2020,
complainant along with Man Singh Rajput, Advocate and Ravindra
Singh Rajput, a Constable of Uttar Pradesh Police posted at Lalitpur are
being prosecuted for blackmailing the petitioner and extorting
Rs.10,00,000/- from him. She had filed an application for grant of bail
but it was rejected by the Sessions Court and therefore she moved a bail
application before the High Court that was registered vide MCRC No.
48625/2020 and by order dated 10.03.2021 the said bail application was
withdrawn. After that, second bail application was move by the
complainant vide MCRC No. 18694/2021, which was rejected by order
dated 03.05.2021. 5. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that after
rejection of the bail application father, mother and sister of the
complainant were continuously seeking apologies and pardon from the
petitioner and his family members upon which the petitioner gave an
affidavit stating that he has no objection if bail is granted to the
complainant and on the basis of the said affidavit the bail was granted to
the complainant vide order dated 27.10.2021 passed in MCRC No.
38618/2021. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that now when
the case is fixed for recording evidence, the complainant is pressurizing
the petitioner for settling the issue, but the petitioner has refused to
compromise the matter and filed a complaint in Police Station, Civil
Lines, Chhatarpur. Thereafter, prosecutrix submitted an application
under Section 156(3) of Cr.P.C. before the Judicial Magistrate First
Class whereupon police submitted a report on 10.07.2021 mentioning
therein that the said incident never occurred. It is stated in the report that
the prosecutrix is in the habit of lodging false reports and is running a
racket to implicate innocent persons and extract money from them. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the aforesaid
facts can be proved from the fact that on 13.08.2019 the complainant
lodged an FIR against one Harishchandra Pandey at Police Station
Fazalganj, District Kanpur City (UP) vide Crime No. 135/2019 for the
offences punishable under Sections 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal
Code and again on 07.10.2019, she lodged an FIR against one Siddharth
Rajavat at Police Station Kotwali Urai, District Jalon vide Crime No.
1339/2019 for the offence under Section 354 of IPC. As such, according 5 to the petitioner, the complainant is in the habit of lodging false
complaints to extract money from the persons against whom false
complaint is made and offence gets registered. 8. It is also submitted that even after lodging FIR on 01.08.2020
against the petitioner, the complainant is still trapping other persons
which is evident from the fact that she had lodged another FIR against
one Rajesh Tiwari and other persons on 26.09.2020 vide Crime No.
241/2020 registered at Police Station GRP Bhopal for the offence under Section 376-D , 120-B , 376(2ij)(i) , 323 , 328 of IPC. 9. There are other documents filed by the petitioner showing that the
prosecutrix made hand written complaint against one Ramkesh Meena at
Police Station Kulphad, District Mahoba. The prosecutrix has also
executed a compromise agreement with one Shri S.K. Gautam son of
Shri R.N. Gautam and has taken Rs. 3,50,000/- from him. As such it is
claimed that the FIR against the petitioner can be quashed on the ground
that it is not a case of committing offence under Section 376 of IPC but
it is a case of honey trap. 10. Learned counsel for the respondent although not denied the
factual aspect but submitted that at this stage it is not proper to quash the
FIR on the fact that the prosecutrix is in the habit of making false
allegation and implicating innocent persons. 11. After hearing the rival contention of the counsel for the parties
and perusal of record, it is clear that the core question involved in this
case is whether on the basis of material available on record this Court 6 should exercise the inherent power as has been provided under Section
482 of Cr.P.C.. It is also to be seen whether in the existing circumstance
the alleged offence of Section 376 of IPC is made out against the
petitioner or not. 12. As per the contents of FIR, on 30.06.2020 the present petitioner
developed physical relation with the complainant making false promise
of marriage and report of the incident was lodged on 16.02.2022 that too
in pursuance to the order passed by the Judicial Magistrate First Class,
Chhatarpur directing concerning police station to register an FIR against
the present petitioner and also against co-accused Ramjan Khan
(Saudagar). The complainant submitted an application under Section
156(3) of Cr.P.C. before the Judicial Magistrate First Class, Chhatarpur
praying for registering an offence against the present petitioner and also
against Ramjan Saudagar under Sections 376 and 120-B of IPC. Copy
of the application available on record is revealing that the same was
filed on 23.06.2021 that too after almost one year of the incident. In the
application it is not disclosed as to why report was not made to the
police for such a long time, although from the contents of FIR it reveals
that when complainant came to know about the fact that present
petitioner is already married then only she decided to take action against
present petitioner and hence she filed an application before the JMFC
Chhatarpur. Although nowhere it is disclosed as to on what basis
complainant came to know about the fact that petitioner was already
married, but the petitioner has denied this fact that he ever developed
physical relation with the complainant. On the contrary, the petitioner
himself made a complaint to the Town Inspector of Police Station Civil 7 Lines, Chhatarpur alleging against the prosecutrix that he was being
harassed and threatened by the prosecutrix as she was demanding Rs. 10
lakhs failing which she would implicate the petitioner in a false case of
rape and threat to life was also given to the petitioner. Thereafter, an
offence got registered against the prosecutrix under Section 384 and 120-B of IPC vide Crime No.0443/2020. In the complaint it is alleged
by the petitioner that the prosecutrix is a habitual criminal and also
running a gang and as such several crimes have been registered against
her. It is alleged by the petitioner that for committing such crimes there
are some other persons in the gang of the complainant and the said
persons are Ravindra Rajput and Mansingh Rajput and with help of
these persons the complainant is extracting money from the innocent
persons giving threat to implicate them in a false case of rape. 13. In the same vein, the complainant lodged other FIRs against
different persons alleging same allegation that the said persons also
developed the physical relation with her, which is demonstrative from
the following fact based upon the documents filed alongwith the
petition: D, 323 and 328 of IPC . The said FIR was registered on the 8 basis of a written complaint made at Police Station Bhopal by
 the complainant. In this case the accused persons got bail by
 the High Court vide orders dated 18.01.2021 passed in
 MCRC Nos.50967/2020 and 51377/2020. (iii) Against one Harishchandra Pandey crime got registered
 vide Crime No. 135/2019 at Police Station Fazalganj, District
 Kanpur City (UP) for the offence under Sections 376 and 506 of IPC. 14. In addition to the above, the complainant made a hand written
complaint against one Ramkesh Meena at Police Station Kulphad,
District Mahoba 15. It is also pertinent to note here that on the FIR lodged by the
present petitioner vide Crime No. 443/2020 against the complainant, she
tried to get bail as she was in jail in the said crime, but initially the bail
was rejected by the Trial Court and also by the High Court. However,
later on, on an affidavit given by the present petitioner pleading no
objection if bail is granted to the complainant, bail was granted to her. 16. An affidavit of complainant is also available on record in which
she has stated on oath that she received Rs. 3,50,000/- from Shri S.K.
Gautam son of Shri R.N. Gautam, resident of Tulsidham, Urai District
Jalon against whom a case got registered at the instance of complainant
under Section 376 of IPC, but after receiving the said amount, she took a
somersault and admitted in the affidavit that accused had not committed
any rape with her and physical relation was developed by her own. 17. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is undoubtedly clear that the conduct
of the complainant was suspicious and under such a circumstance, not
explaining the delay in lodging the FIR can be considered to be a
material aspect. Although in normal circumstances the delay in lodging
the FIR in a case of rape is not considered to be a material aspect, but
here in this case the delay carries importance because on the basis of the
conduct of the prosecutrix and the allegations made by the petitioner
against her, the delay plays important role and makes the total case
suspicious. Even otherwise, in cases of rape when allegation against the
accused is made that he has developed the physical relation on a false
promise of marriage, the Supreme Court and also the High Court have
considered this aspect and observed that if from the very inception
physical relation is developed on an assurance of marriage and consent
is given by the victim under misconception of fact then it falls within the
ambit of rape. However, the Supreme Court has also observed that the
Court has to consider the fact that if accused from the very beginning
acted with malafide intention of seducing the prosecutrix by making
false promise of marriage and not keeping his promise then mere breach
of promise without malafide intention cannot amount to deception and it
does not come within the ambit of rape. Here in this case, though the
petitioner has denied to have made any physical relation with the
prosecutrix but considering the fact that it was not the first occasion
when the complaint was made by the prosecutrix against the petitioner
for committing rape on the allegation of false promise of marriage but in
the same vein she made similar type of allegations against other persons
also and consequently offence got registered under Section 376 of IPC
against the said persons. Thus, it can be clearly gathered that it is 10 nothing but a modus operandi of the complainant to implicate the
innocent persons and extract money from them which is established
from an affidavit given by the complainant admitting therein that the
offence got registered on her false statement about committing rape on
false promise of marriage whereas physical relation got developed by
her as per her own wish and she extracted money from the accused
person. The present petitioner also made a complaint against the
prosecutrix that she was demanding Rs. 10 Lakhs with a threat if the
money is not given, the petitioner could be implicated in a false case of
rape and his complaint was prior in time to the date of registration of
FIR on the complaint made by the complainant and an offence got
registered against the prosecutrix. 18. The Supreme Court in the case of State of Haryana and Others
vs. Bhajanlal and Others reported in AIR 1992 SC 604 has laid down
the guidelines so as to interfere in such type of prosecution exercising
extraordinary power provided under Article 226 of the Constitution of
India or inherent power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure. The said guidelines reads thus:- 19. The Supreme Court in re Bhajanlal (supra) in paragraph 108 has
very specifically categorized the cases wherein such power can be
exercised by the Court. In the present case, Category No. 7 permits this
Court to exercise inherent power provided under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. reason being on scanning overall circumstances of the case at hand, it
can easily be gathered that the instant prosecution is a malicious
prosecution instituted with an ulterior motive and as such appears to be
an abuse of process of law. 20. In the present case, the delay in lodging the FIR, as already
observed, is playing a material role. As such the allegation of false
promise of marriage is nothing but a concocted allegation made by the
prosecutrix so as to bring the case within the definition of rape as
provided under Section 375 of IPC and to formulate the offence of Section 376 of IPC. 21. In the case of Deepak Gulati vs. State of Haryana reported in
(2013) 7 SCC 675, the Supreme Court has considered the scope of
'Consent' and observed as under:- 22. Further in the case of Dr. Dhruvram Murlidhar Sona vs. State
of Maharashtra & Others reported in (2019) 18 SCC 191 the Supreme
Court has considered the aspect of 'Consent' in a case of rape and
observed as under:- or "to secure the ends of justice" do not confer 15 unlimited jurisdiction on the High Court and the
alleged abuse of process of law or the ends of justice
could only be secured in accordance with law,
including procedural law and not otherwise. 9. This Court in State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal [State
of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 : 10. In Rajesh Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi) [Rajesh
Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi), (1999) 3 SCC 259 : 11. In State of Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa [State of
Karnataka v. M. Devendrappa, (2002) 3 SCC 89 : 2002
SCC (Cri) 539] , it was held that while exercising
powers under Section 482 CrPC, the court does not
function as a court of appeal or revision. Inherent
jurisdiction under the section though wide has to be
exercised sparingly, carefully and with caution and
only when such exercise is justified by the tests
specifically laid down in the section itself. It was
further held as under : (SCC p. 94, para 6)

 "6. ... It would be an abuse of process of the court
 to allow any action which would result in injustice
 and prevent promotion of justice. In exercise of the
 powers court would be justified to quash any
 proceeding if it finds that initiation/continuance of
 it amounts to abuse of the process of court or
 quashing of these proceedings would otherwise
 serve the ends of justice. When no offence is
 disclosed by the complaint, the court may examine
 the question of fact. When a complaint is sought to
 be quashed, it is permissible to look into the
 materials to assess what the complainant has
 alleged and whether any offence is made out even
 if the allegations are accepted in toto." 12. Recently, in Vineet Kumar v. State of U.P. [Vineet
Kumar v. State of U.P., (2017) 13 SCC 369 : (2017) 4 19 SCC (Cri) 633] , this Court has observed as under : When there are materials to indicate that a criminal
 proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide
 and proceeding is maliciously instituted with an
 ulterior motive, the High Court will not hesitate in
 exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC
 to quash the proceeding. ... the present is a fit case
 where the High Court ought to have exercised its
 jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC and quashed
 the criminal proceedings." 13. It is clear that for quashing the proceedings,
meticulous analysis of factum of taking cognizance of
an offence by the Magistrate is not called for.
Appreciation of evidence is also not permissible in
exercise of inherent powers. If the allegations set out
in the complaint do not constitute the offence of which
cognizance has been taken, it is open to the High Court
to quash the same in exercise of the inherent powers. 14. In the instant case, FIR was registered against the
appellant and the co-accused under Sections 376(2)(b) , 420 read with Section 34 IPC and under Section 3(1) (x) of the SC/ST Act. Section 376(2)(b) prescribes
punishment for the offence of rape committed by a
public servant taking advantage of his official position
on a woman in his custody as such public servant or in
the custody of a public servant subordinate to him. The
said provision during the relevant point of time was as
under: 15. Section 375 defines the offence of rape and
enumerates six descriptions of the offence. The first
clause operates where the woman is in possession of 21 her senses and, therefore, capable of consenting but the
act is done against her will and the second where it is
done without her consent; the third, fourth and fifth
when there is consent but it is not such a consent as
excuses the offender, because it is obtained by putting
her, or any person in whom she is interested, in fear of
death or of hurt. The expression "against her 'will' " 16. Section 90 IPC defines "consent" known to be
given under fear or misconception: 17. Thus, Section 90 though does not define "consent",
but describes what is not "consent". Consent may be
express or implied, coerced or misguided, obtained
willingly or through deceit. If the consent is given by 22 the complainant under misconception of fact, it is
vitiated. Consent for the purpose of Section 375 requires voluntary participation not only after the
exercise of intelligence based on the knowledge of the
significance and moral quality of the act, but also after
having fully exercised the choice between resistance
and assent. Whether there was any consent or not is to
be ascertained only on a careful study of all relevant
circumstances. 18. In Uday v. State of Karnataka [Uday v. State of
Karnataka, (2003) 4 SCC 46 : 2003 SCC (Cri) 775] ,
this Court was considering a case where the
prosecutrix, aged about 19 years, had given consent to
sexual intercourse with the accused with whom she
was deeply in love, on a promise that he would marry
her on a later date. The prosecutrix continued to meet
the accused and often had sexual intercourse and
became pregnant. A complaint was lodged on failure
of the accused to marry her. It was held that consent
cannot be said to be given under a misconception of
fact. It was held thus : (SCC pp. 56-57, paras 21 & 23)

 "21. It therefore appears that the consensus of
 judicial opinion is in favour of the view that the
 consent given by the prosecutrix to sexual
 intercourse with a person with whom she is deeply
 in love on a promise that he would marry her on a
 later date, cannot be said to be given under a
 misconception of fact. A false promise is not a fact 23 within the meaning of the Code. We are inclined to
agree with this view, but we must add that there is
no straitjacket formula for determining whether
consent given by the prosecutrix to sexual
intercourse is voluntary, or whether it is given
under a misconception of fact. In the ultimate
analysis, the tests laid down by the courts provide
at best guidance to the judicial mind while
considering a question of consent, but the court
must, in each case, consider the evidence before it
and the surrounding circumstances, before reaching
a conclusion, because each case has its own
peculiar facts which may have a bearing on the
question whether the consent was voluntary, or was
given under a misconception of fact. It must also
weigh the evidence keeping in view the fact that
the burden is on the prosecution to prove each and
every ingredient of the offence, absence of consent
being one of them. *** 23. Keeping in view the approach that the court
must adopt in such cases, we shall now proceed to
consider the evidence on record. In the instant case,
the prosecutrix was a grown-up girl studying in a
college. She was deeply in love with the appellant.
She was, however, aware of the fact that since they
belonged to different castes, marriage was not
possible. In any event the proposal for their 24 marriage was bound to be seriously opposed by
 their family members. She admits having told so to
 the appellant when he proposed to her the first
 time. She had sufficient intelligence to understand
 the significance and moral quality of the act she
 was consenting to. That is why she kept it a secret
 as long as she could. Despite this, she did not resist
 the overtures of the appellant, and in fact
 succumbed to them. She thus freely exercised a
 choice between resistance and assent. She must
 have known the consequences of the act,
 particularly when she was conscious of the fact that
 their marriage may not take place at all on account
 of caste considerations. All these circumstances
 lead us to the conclusion that she freely, voluntarily
 and consciously consented to having sexual
 intercourse with the appellant, and her consent was
 not in consequence of any misconception of fact." 19. In Deelip Singh v. State of Bihar [Deelip Singh v.
State of Bihar, (2005) 1 SCC 88 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 253]
, the Court framed the following two questions relating
to consent : (SCC p. 104, para 30)

 (1) Is it a case of passive submission in the face of
 psychological pressure exerted or allurements
 made by the accused or was it a conscious decision
 on the part of the prosecutrix knowing fully the
 nature and consequences of the act she was asked
 to indulge in? (2) Whether the tacit consent given by the
 prosecutrix was the result of a misconception
 created in her mind as to the intention of the
 accused to marry her? In this case, the girl lodged a complaint with the
 police stating that she and the accused were
 neighbours and they fell in love with each other.
 One day in February 1988, the accused forcibly
 raped her and later consoled her by saying that he
 would marry her. She succumbed to the entreaties
 of the accused to have sexual relations with him, on
 account of the promise made by him to marry her,
 and therefore continued to have sex on several
 occasions. After she became pregnant, she revealed
 the matter to her parents. Even thereafter, the
 intimacy continued to the knowledge of the parents
 and other relations who were under the impression
 that the accused would marry the girl, but the
 accused avoided marrying her and his father took
 him out of the village to thwart the bid to marry.
 The efforts made by the father of the girl to
 establish the marital tie failed. Therefore, she was
 constrained to file the complaint after waiting for
 some time. 20. With this factual background, the Court held that
the girl had taken a conscious decision, after active
application of mind to the events that had transpired. It 26 was further held that at best, it is a case of breach of
promise to marry rather than a case of false promise to
marry, for which the accused is prima facie
accountable for damages under civil law. It was held
thus : ( Deelip Singh [Deelip Singh v. State of Bihar ,
(2005) 1 SCC 88 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 253] , SCC p. 106,
para 35)

 "35. The remaining question is whether on the
 basis of the evidence on record, it is reasonably
 possible to hold that the accused with the
 fraudulent intention of inducing her to sexual
 intercourse, made a false promise to marry. We
 have no doubt that the accused did hold out the
 promise to marry her and that was the predominant
 reason for the victim girl to agree to the sexual
 intimacy with him. PW 12 was also too keen to
 marry him as she said so specifically. But we find
 no evidence which gives rise to an inference
 beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had no
 intention to marry her at all from the inception and
 that the promise he made was false to his
 knowledge. No circumstances emerging from the
 prosecution evidence establish this fact. On the
 other hand, the statement of PW 12 that "later on",
 the accused became ready to marry her but his
 father and others took him away from the village
 would indicate that the accused might have been
 prompted by a genuine intention to marry which
 did not materialise on account of the pressure 27 exerted by his family elders. It seems to be a case
 of breach of promise to marry rather than a case of
 false promise to marry. On this aspect also, the
 observations of this Court in Uday case [ Uday v.
 State of Karnataka , (2003) 4 SCC 46 : 2003 SCC
 (Cri) 775] at para 24 come to the aid of the
 appellant." 21. In Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana [Deepak
Gulati v. State of Haryana, (2013) 7 SCC 675 : (2013)
3 SCC (Cri) 660] , the Court has drawn a distinction
between rape and consensual sex. This is a case of a
prosecutrix aged 19 years at the time of the incident.
She had an inclination towards the accused. The
accused had been giving her assurances of the fact that
he would get married to her. The prosecutrix,
therefore, left her home voluntarily and of her own
free will to go with the accused to get married to him.
She called the accused on a phone number given to her
by him, to ask him why he had not met her at the place
that had been pre-decided by them. She also waited for
him for a long time, and when he finally arrived, she
went with him to a place called Karna Lake where they
indulged in sexual intercourse. She did not raise any
objection at that stage and made no complaints to
anyone. Thereafter, she went to Kurukshetra with the
accused, where she lived with his relatives. Here too,
the prosecutrix voluntarily became intimate with the
accused. She then, for some reason, went to live in the
hostel at Kurukshetra University illegally, and once 28 again came into contact with the accused at Birla
Mandir there. Thereafter, she even proceeded with the
accused to the old bus-stand in Kurukshetra, to leave
for Ambala so that the two of them could get married
at the court in Ambala. At the bus station, the accused
was arrested by the police. The Court held that the
physical relationship between the parties had clearly
developed with the consent of the prosecutrix as there
was neither a case of any resistance nor had she raised
any complaint anywhere at any time, despite the fact
that she had been living with the accused for several
days and had travelled with him from one place to
another. The Court further held that it is not possible to
apprehend the circumstances in which a charge of
deceit/rape can be levelled against the accused. 22. Recently, this Court, in Shivashankar v. State of
Karnataka [Shivashankar v. State of Karnataka, (2019)
18 SCC 204] , disposed of on 6-4-2018, has observed
that it is difficult to hold that sexual intercourse in the
course of a relationship which has continued for eight
years is "rape", especially in the face of the
complainant's own allegation that they lived together
as man and wife. It was held as under : ( Shivashankar case [ Shivashankar v. State of Karnataka , (2019) 18
SCC 204] , SCC p. 205, para 4)

 "4. In the facts and circumstances of the present
 case, it is difficult to sustain the charges levelled
 against the appellant who may have possibly, made 29 a false promise of marriage to the complainant. It
 is, however, difficult to hold sexual intercourse in
 the course of a relationship which has continued for
 eight years, as "rape" especially in the face of the
 complainant's own allegation that they lived
 together as man and wife." 23. Thus, there is a clear distinction between rape and
consensual sex. The court, in such cases, must very
carefully examine whether the complainant had
actually wanted to marry the victim or had mala fide
motives and had made a false promise to this effect
only to satisfy his lust, as the latter falls within the
ambit of cheating or deception. There is also a
distinction between mere breach of a promise and not
fulfilling a false promise. If the accused has not made
the promise with the sole intention to seduce the
prosecutrix to indulge in sexual acts, such an act would
not amount to rape. There may be a case where the
prosecutrix agrees to have sexual intercourse on
account of her love and passion for the accused and
not solely on account of the misconception created by
accused, or where an accused, on account of
circumstances which he could not have foreseen or
which were beyond his control, was unable to marry
her despite having every intention to do. Such cases
must be treated differently. If the complainant had any
mala fide intention and if he had clandestine motives,
it is a clear case of rape. The acknowledged consensual 30 physical relationship between the parties would not
 constitute an offence under Section 376 IPC." 23. In view of the aforesaid discussion and also in view of the law laid down by the Supreme Court on the issue, this Court is of the
opinion that the FIR against the present petitioner and also against the
co-accused Ramjan Saudagar lodged by prosecutrix with mala fide
intention and with ulterior motive just to extract money from them. As
such in view of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of
Bhajanlal (supra), this Court is exercising power provided under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and quashing the impugned FIR lodged against
the petitioner. 24. Accordingly, this petition is allowed. The FIR registered against
the petitioner vide Crime No. 87/2022 at Police Station Civil Lines,
Chhatarpur for the offence under Section 376 and 120-B of the Indian
Penal Code is hereby quashed and consequently all the consequential
actions/investigations thereto are also hereby quashed. (SANJAY DWIVEDI)
 JUDGE

Raghvendra

RAGHVENDRA
SHARAN SHUKLA
2024.07.06
12:54:16 +05'30'