- 1. Vide this order, I shall dispose off the above mentioned
criminal revision no. 76/2021 arising out of order dated 20.02.2020

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 1 of 10
 passed by the Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate (Mahila Court-05), West,
Tis Hazari Court in FIR No. 187/2016 in case titled as "State
Vs.Dinesh Kumar Goel". The Ld. Trial court vide order on charge
dated 20.02.2020 has passed the order that prima facie offence u/s
509 / 201 IPC is made out against the accused/revisionist herin. 2. Briefly, it is stated that the complainant/respondent no.2
was working as a teacher of chemistry and was posted in one of the
institutes of FIITJEE, viz Paschim Vihar Centre, New Delhi and the
revisionist herein is the Chairman of M/s FIITJEE. On 04.11.2014, a
scuffle had taken place at the said Paschim Vihar Centre between the
faculty members Vipin Kumar, Sunil Kumar and the complainant
over personal issues arising from the past. Thereafter, a disciplinary
Committee was constituted against the three erring employees
including the complainant/respondent no.2 and further resulted in
termination of services of Vipin and Sunil and complainant was
transferred. Complainant being not satisfied, made a complaint on the
basis of which FIR No. 1073/14 was registered. However, the
complainant kept hounding and harassing the Senior Management of
the institution including the revisionist to get herself reinstated at the
Paschim Vihar Centre and she never complied with the
recommendation of the disciplinary committee and never reported to
work at the new centre despite several requests and reminders and
due to which she lost her job. Complainant held a grudge against the
Senior officials and the revisionist and started to post-defamatory

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 2 of 10
 material of social media and also tried to sabotage the smooth
functioning of the institute to hold protest and Dharna outside the
institute, later on the same was restrained by the Ld. Senior Civil
Judge in favour of the revisionist. Further she also tried to contact the
revisionist various platforms but the revisionist did not respond. On
15.04.2015, through Facebook by posting comment of a webpage
titled as "Fans of D K Goel" a comment was made that "if you have
been raped by a Muslim then please let us know, else do not post
irrelevant comments. We have noted that you have gone to police and
court and trying to defame various people. Women should be of good
character. Using yourself as a woman and befriending the media and
to get false report is not right. Your parents will be ashamed of you".
Thereafter, the present case FIR No. 187/2016 was registered u/s
354A(iv) / 506 / 509 / 201 IPC and vide order on charge dated
20.02.2020, the revisionist was discharged for the offence u/s
354A(iv) / 506 IPC and charges were directed to be framed u/s
509 / 201 IPC. 4. While assailing the impugned order, the grounds taken
by the revisionist that firstly, it is stated that the Ld. Trial Court in
exercise of its jurisdiction has acted illegally with material
irregularities in abuse of process of law and is based it orders on
surmises and conjectures. Secondly, it is stated that Ld. Trial Court
has failed to consider the relevant material evidence. Thirdly, the Ld.
MM has failed to appreciate that the offence u/s 509 / 201 IPC are not

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 3 of 10
 made out and that fact that the offending comment was not found by
the investigating agency on the fan page of the revisionist coupled
with the fact that they failed to get any response from Facebook
regarding existence of comment and the admin of the said fan page
and no action having been taken by the investigating agency to
procure a letterogatory as per procedure in Cr.P.C and the same is
malicious and unsustainable in law. Fourthly, that 509 IPC is not
made out against the revisionist herein as the essential ingredients of
the offence are missing and bare reading of the section postulated that
the offence and the victim being in physical proximity and the
offence is made when a word is uttered or sound is made to the
hearing of the victim and the intention to outrage the modesty of a
woman is an essential ingredient of offence u/s 354 IPC and
language of 509 IPC is also similar to Section 354 and the same is
lacking in the present case. Fifthly, that no offence u/s 201 IPC can be
made out as there is no evidence that the petitioner was responsible
for deleting the comment from the webpage of Facebook. Lastly, the
revisionist prayed that he may be discharged for the offence u/s
509 / 201 IPC and further he has filed authorities to substantiate his
grounds. 5. Notice of the Revision was issued to the respondents on
which the respondent entered appearance. TCR was also summoned. 6. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for respondent has
argued the matter and filed a reply stating that Ld. Trial Court in

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 4 of 10
 exercise of its jurisdiction has acted illegally with material
irregularities in abuse of process of law and is based it orders on
surmises and conjectures and has failed to consider the relevant
material evidence. Further that the investigating agency has failed to
get any response from Facebook regarding existence of comment and
admin of the said fanpage, that contention is a matter of evidence, the
burden of proof will remain on the prosecution to prove its case and
the same cannot be looked at this stage and also that Section 509 IPC
is a remedy which is available to aggrieved women who is harassed
online as well and the same is not limited to physical presence. Also,
the respondent has denied the grounds as false and untrue. Further,
failed to appreciate that the offence u/s 354A(iv) / 506 / 509 / 201 IPC are
made out against the revisionist herein. 6(i). Per contra, Ld. Addl. PP for the State has argued the
matter and stated that there are sufficient material on ground to frame
charge under alleged offences against the revisionist herein and he is
liable to be prosecuted under the alleged offences. 7. It is well settled law that only the sufficiency of grounds
for proceeding against the respondent/accused on a general
consideration of materials placed before the court by the Investigating
Police Officer are to be considered for framing of charge. Truth,
veracity and effect of the evidence which the prosecution proposes to
adduce are not to be meticulously judged. Same standard in
appreciation of evidence as would be applied at the stage of

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 5 of 10
 consideration of framing a charge. At that stage, even a very strong
suspicion founded on materials before the Court which leads the
Court to form a presumptive opinion as to existence of factual
ingredients constituting the offence alleged, may justify the framing
of charge against the respondent/accused in respect of the
commission of that offence. (See Supdt. And Remembrancer of
Legal Affairs, West Bengal v. Anil Kumar Bhunja AIR 1980 SC 52; Nitaipada Das Vs. Sudarsan Sarangi & Anr. 1991 CrilJ 3012 and
Sajjan Kumar Vs. CBI 2010 (V) AD SC 157). Further, it is also
settled law that at the stage of framing of charge, only the police
report as referred to in Section 173 Cr. PC is required to be referred
to. This aspect of the law has been adverted to in State Anti
Corruption Bureau, Hyderabad and Another Vs. P. Suryaprakasam;
1999 SCC (Crl.) 373 where considering the scope of Sections 239 and 240 of the Cr. PC it was held that at the time of framing of
charge, what the trial court is required to, and can consider are only
the police report referred to under Section 173 of the Code and the
documents sent with it. This position of law was reiterated by a three
Judge Bench of the Apex Court in the case of State of Orissa Vs.
Debendra Nath Padhi AIR 2005 SC 359. 8. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case titled
Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), AIR 2010
SC 1446 has held as that, "It is trite that at the stage of framing of
charge, the court is required to evaluate the material and documents

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 6 of 10
 on record with a view to finding out if the facts emerging therefrom,
taken at their face value, disclose the existence of all the ingredients
constituting the alleged offence or offences. For this limited purpose,
the court may sift the evidence as it cannot be expected even at the
initial stage to accept as gospel truth all that the prosecution states. At
this stage, the court has to consider the material only with a view to
find out if there is ground for "presuming" that the accused has
committed an offence and not for the purpose of arriving at the
conclusion that it is not likely to lead to a conviction". 9. Discussing the law on consideration of charge, the
Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in C.P. Malik and Ors. vs. State , (1999)
81 DLT 92 has held as under: 10. While discussing the power of the revisionist court,
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Munna Devi vs. State of
Rajasthan and Ors. , AIR 2002 SC 107, it has been held by the
Supreme Court as under: 11. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in State of
Maharashtra vs. Salman Salim Khan and Ors. , AIR 2004 SC 1189,
the Supreme Court has held as under: 12. The Court at the stage of framing of charge is not
required to meticulously weigh the evidence and the prima-facie view
of the matter is to be taken into consideration. It has to be seen that
on consideration of the material on record, a prima-facie case is made
out and/or grave suspicion exists about the involvement of the

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 8 of 10
 respondent/accused in the crime alleged, it is expected to frame the
charge and put the respondent/accused on trial. At such an initial
stage of the trial, the truth, veracity and effect of the evidence which
the prosecutor proposes to adduce are not required to be meticulously
judged, all that is required is, that the Court must be satisfied that
with the material available, a prima-facie case is made out for the
respondent/accused to stand trial. 13. Perusal of TCR shows that the Ld. Trial Court has taken
into consideration all the material available and rightly passed the
order to frame charges against the accused/revisionist herein Dinesh
Kumar Goel of the offence u/s 509 / 201 IPC. Further that here are
specific allegations against the revisionist. Whether the said page was
operated by him or not is a matter of trial. Also, the said page was
infact deleted or the comment has been deleted by him are a matter of
trial. Under the statement of complainant u/s 164 Cr.P.C she has
stated that she was working in FIITJEE and the Dinesh Kumar Goel
was the owner and she was suspended from the institute after
molestation by other colleagues and her salary was not released.
Further she requested the owner/revisionist herein regarding her
grievances but no heed was given. On 15.04.2014, owner Dinesh
Kumar Goel commented on her facebook that "if you have been
raped by a Muslim then please let us know, Women should be of good
character. Using yourself as a woman is not right".Further she stated
that pressure is being created on her to withdraw the case. At this

CR No.76/2021 Dinesh Kumar Goel Vs. State Page No 9 of 10
 stage, the Ld. Trial Court has to arrive at a prima facie case against
the revisionist which is clearly made out in the present case. The
present Court is of the opinion that the Ld. Trial Court has applied its
judicial mind while passing the impugned order dated 20.02.2020,
taking into consideration, the material on record. And it cannot be
said at this stage that the conclusion arrived at by the Ld. Trial Court
is unreasonable or unjustified calling for the interference by the
present Court. I do not find any infirmity or flaw in the impugned
order dated 20.02.2020 passed by the Trial Court. 14. Revision petition is accordingly disposed of as
dismissed. Nothing said herein shall tantamount to have effect on the
merits of the case. Trial Court record be sent back alongwith the copy Digitally signed of this order. AMBIKA by AMBIKA SINGH SINGH Date: