The petitioner is before this Court calling in question

registration of crime in Crime No.12 of 2021 for offences punishable

under Sections 66 , 66(F) , 84(C) of the Information Technology Act,

2008 ('the Act' for short) and Section 380 of the IPC and pending

before the 1st Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate at Bengaluru. 2. Facts adumbrated, as borne out from the pleadings, are as

follows:- 3. Heard Sri Girish B.Baladare, learned counsel appearing for

the petitioner, Sri H.Shanthi Bhushan, learned Deputy Solicitor

General of India appearing for respondent No.1 and Sri Mahesh

Shetty, learned High Court Government Pleader appearing for

respondent No.2. 4. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner would

vehemently contend that a crime comes to be registered on

17-09-2021 only for offence punishable under Section 66 of the

Act. He would submit that there is gross delay in dragging the

petitioner into the web of aforesaid crime as it is registered in the

year 2021 and the respondents on the strength of the said

registration, for the first time, sought remand of the petitioner for

police custody on 19-03-2022. He would further contend that the

petitioner has done nothing that would bring him into the web of

crime and permitting further investigation against a bright student

like the petitioner would become an abuse of the process of law. He

would seek quashment of registration of the crime against him. 5. On the other hand, the learned Deputy Solicitor General of

India Sri Shanthi Bhushan would vehemently refute the submissions

to contend that when the petitioner was an intern in the Indian

Institute of Science certain projects were sanctioned to be executed

by the Aeronautical Development Agency, Ministry of Defence,

Government of India. He was allowed to work as an intern in the

preparation of code for the Light Combat Aircrafts used during war 6 time. What the petitioner would do is get to know the entire source

code and has published the same for sale on the Dark Web.

Initially it was not known as to who was involved in the entire

process. It took about 18 months for the Department to know that

the petitioner is involved in all these activities. Therefore, he would

contend that the petitioner has compromised the security of the

nation. Investigation is still on, as to the involvement of any other

person in such horrendous acts. He would seek dismissal of the

petition. For a perusal of the Court he has also produced certain

communications in sealed cover as they are communications within

the Defence. 6. I have given my anxious consideration to the submissions

made by the respective learned counsel and have perused the

material on record. 7. The afore-narrated facts are not in dispute. The petitioner

begins to work as an intern in the HAL Aircraft Research and Design

Centre, Design Complex from 09.12.2015 to 05.01.2016 and

undergoes in-plant training, on a no pay, no fee basis. Again he 7 works as an intern in the Department of Aero Space Engineering of

the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru from 20-05-2016 to 28-

06-2016 for about one month. Later, the petitioner from 23-01-

2017 up to 20-02-2017 has undergone training in the project

"Stress Analysis of Gun Installation for a Typical Fighter Aircraft".

The experience certificates for the aforesaid period at three of the

places, are appended to the petition, which are quoted for the

purpose of quick reference: During this tenure he was found to be hardworking,
 committed and sincere in his duties with good work ethics. His 8 abilities to work as a team member as well as independently are
excellent. His conduct during this period was observed to be
good. Best wishes for his future assignments. Sd/- (V.SURENDRA NATH)" ... HAL AIRCRAFT RESEARCH & DESIGN CENTRE (ARDC)
 DESIGN COMPLEX, HINDUSTAN AERONAUTICS LTD. This is to certify that Chennuboina Siva Rama Krishna
 who is a student of B.Tech (Aeronautical),Manipal Institute of
 Technology, Manipal has undergone Project work at HAL
 ARDC, Design Complex, Bangalore from 23.01.2017 to 20-02-
 2017 on "No pay no fee basis". The title of the Project work
 is "Stress Analysis of Gun Installatioin for a Typical
 Fighter Aircraft". He has been punctual, sincere and
 committed trainee. His conduct has been Excellent. The student brings in a lot of energy and enthusiasm in
 the work, he is structured in his approach and methodical in
 resolving a problem. He is resourceful and adaptive to working
 environment. Sd/- (P.Jaiprakash)
 Manager (HR)
 ARDC,Design Complex." (Emphasis added)

The petitioner also appends an experience certificate of Manipal

Academy of Higher Education, where the petitioner claims to have

worked as Research Assistant. 8. It appears that certain project from the Aeronautical

Development Agency of the Ministry of Defence, Government of

India were entrusted to the Indian Institute of Science viz.,

"Experimental Investigation of Lateral Instability 10 Characteristics of AMCA at Moderate to High Angles of

Attack-Phase-I". The project was sanctioned and was sought to

be executed in the Department of Aero Space Engineering, Indian

Institute of Science. This was in the year 2012. It was an on-going

project. The project also sought a non-disclosure agreement from

the hands of the Indian Institute of Science, which was signed and

executed as it was concerning defence of the nation. Another

project comes to be allotted to the Indian Institute of Science on

17-11-2015 viz., "Design and Fabrication and Measurement of

Dynamic Derivatives on 1:20 scale AMCA model using Forced

Oscillating rig and Rotary Derivative Rig". This project was

undertaken by the Indian Institute of Science and completed on 10-

01-2017. It is during the said period the petitioner was working as

an intern in the very Department. Somewhere in the year 2021 it

comes to the notice of the Ministry of Defence that there has been

some foul play by persons working in the Aeronautical Development

Agency and have leaked the data related to the organization. It is

then the Aeronautical Development Agency complains to the

jurisdictional Police in the Cyber Crime Division on 17-09-2021. The

complaint reads as follows: (Emphasis added)

The complaint then becomes a crime in Crime No.12 of 2021

initially for offence punishable under Section 66 of the Act.

Investigation is commenced by the jurisdictional Police of the Cyber

Crime Division, and the investigation leads to the filing of a remand

application, before the concerned Court seeking remand of the 12 petitioner to Police custody on 19-03-2022. The remand sought is

on the following grounds: • Prima facie of the case shows there is digital evidence
 against the accused person. • Confidential materials posted on the deep path to be
 identified. • Seized electronic devices to be forensically examined.
 • Deep path URL to be identified and to verify the present
 activity. • A mahazar to be conducted at Indian Institue of Science
 (IISc) and to obtain digital evidence. • Need to verify Crypto currency wallet details.
 • Encryption keys (Private & Public) to be collected and
 analysed. • Other accused persons involved in the case have to be
 identified and traced. • Accused Bank details need to be obtained from the banks
 and need to verify thoroughly. • The Accused person to be interrogated thoroughly to
 know about commission of any other similar offences.
 • If the accused person is released on bail, he may tamper
 the evidence. • If the accused person is released on bail, it is likely that
 accused person may abscond as he belongs to other State
 (Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh). In the circumstances explained above, it is humbly
 prayed before Hon'ble Court to remand the accused person
 Shiva Rama Krishna Chennuboinato Police custody for 10
 days from 19-03-2022 to 28-03-2022 on the national
 interest." (Emphasis added)

It is noted that the complainant had requested to investigate the

matter and identify persons making available the data of the

organization on the internet and initiate appropriate action. It 14 records that investigation was conducted and during the course of

investigation it was prima facie found that the petitioner was

involved in all the acts. Two of his laptops, two external hard discs,

one pen drive and the mobile of the petitioner were seized on

19-03-2022 and custodial interrogation was sought by the Police.

It is then, the petitioner lost his chance of interview of Senior

Technical Officer-1 Grade-III in the National Aero Space

Laboratories. Interrogation then continues and all leads, lead to the

petitioner's act of stealing the data and publishing them on dark

web for the purpose of sale of such data. Certain documents are

placed for perusal of the Court by the learned Deputy Solicitor

General of India. Recording all those communications which are

classified documents would cause serious prejudice to the case of

the petitioner and the case of the Ministry of Defence against the

petitioner. Investigation is still on. 9. The submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner

that there has been delay as the crime is registered on 17-09-2021

and the petitioner is apprehended only in March 2022 and

therefore, the proceedings should be quashed on that ground is, on 15 the face of it, unacceptable, as the investigation in the nature of the

kind that is necessary in the facts of the case at hand cannot be

concluded overnight, as they involve several intricate facts to be

gone into. If on the plea of the petitioner the present proceedings

are quashed against him, it would amount to putting a premium on

the activities of the petitioner who has acted in a manner that

would compromise security of the nation, as the petitioner has

leaked the data of the Light Combat Aircraft under the Tejas

programme development by the Aeronautical Development Agency.

The data that is leaked is of Aeronautical Technology which is used

for Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft, all of which form defence

documents of the Ministry of Defence. The Investigating Officer,

after the arrest of the petitioner as on 18-04-2022 collected several

documents in which the petitioner was involved and has leaked the

said data. They form part of the statement of objections and are

quoted for the purpose of quick reference hereunder: Therefore, the petitioner has leaked into dark web highly sensitive

data which would have the effect of destabilizing defence of the

nation. Any person indulging in any crime that would destabilize

nation's defence of any kind, even to its triviality, cannot be

countenanced. The petitioner wanting to project himself to be

innocent, in the teeth of the aforesaid facts, can only be a figment

of his imagination. It is a matter to be investigated into and the

investigation is yet to complete. The submission of the learned

counsel for the petitioner may seem to be shrouded with triviality,

but in effect, cascades or snowballs into threatening the defence of

the nation. The petitioner has leaked defence secrets with regard

to installation of characteristics of moderate to high angles of attack 17 concerning aircrafts, its design, fabrication, measurement and

dynamic derivates, into the dark web, all for enriching himself. 10. It is in public domain that there are 3 classifications of

web/internet, one is the "worldwide web", which requires a

search from an operating search engine, this is on the periphery. A

little deeper is the "deep web", both of which, the surface web

i.e., the worldwide web and the deep web are identifiable through

their internet protocol address (IP address). Deeper to these two

is the "dark web", which requires special software solutions and in

some cases, software dependant information technology

knowledge. Dark web is a sophisticated anonymous internet

network used by both criminals and other individuals for manifold

reasons, necessity to regulate the usage of dark web has become

the need of the hour, as it provides anonymity, as the geo location

is hidden. Such usage of dark web for defence secrets to be

uploaded has devastating effect on national security. The

occurrence of massive data theft and auction on the dark web has

been a worrisome concern to all the nations, including ours.

Therefore, it is necessary to investigate into the root of the data 18 thieving, uploading it on the dark web, for illegal financial gains and

bring to book, persons involved in such acts of uploading sensitive

data of defence of the nation, on to the dark web and deal them

with iron hands. 11. The learned Deputy Solicitor General of India and the

learned High Court Government Pleader on instructions, in unison

would submit that, the investigation is nearing completion and final

report would be placed before the concerned Court. Those

submissions are placed on record. In such cases, the investigation

is to be taken up on war footing and complete it in a time frame, so

that illegality would not perpetuate. More than 2 years have

passed by, the matter is still at the stage of investigation. Though

in certain cases time to investigate on deeper issues would be

necessary, but bearing that in mind as well, it should be the

endeavour of the prosecution to conclude the investigation as

expeditiously as possible and file their final report. Four months

time, in the opinion of the Court, would be adequate. 19 12. In the light of the aforesaid facts, no interference is called

for on the projection of innocence of the petitioner. Finding no

merit in the petition, the petition stands dismissed. Consequently, I.A.No.1 of 2023 also stands disposed. Sd/- JUDGE

bkp
CT:MJ