1. Judgment disposes off a suit for permanent injunction,
 restraining infringement of trademark, passing off and rendition
 of accounts filed by the plaintiff claiming violation of its
 intellectual proprietary rights by defendants. 2. Plaintiff ­ Retail Royalty company, a US based Page 2 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . incorporation engaged in trading of ready made clothing and
 proprietor of the trade mark - "AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS", has challenged the use of the trademark ­
 "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS", being used by defendant No.
 1 company, in relation with it's business of clothing. Defendant
 No. 2 is stated to be the Director of defendant No. 1. Defendant
 No. 3 is also a Director, as well as the owner of outfit under the
 name and style M/s CITY TOP operating from Lucknow.
 Defendant No. 5 ­ M/s V3 FASHIONS is a manufacturer of
 cloths, bearing the impugned mark ­ AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS. 3. Plaintiff company is stated to have been founded in the
 1970s and using the corporate name ­ AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS, since 1977. Plaintiff is claimed to be listed
 company, with the New York Stock Exchange, and it's operation
 is stated to be spanning across numerous countries around the
 world, including USA, UK, CANADA and HONG KONG. Plaintiff
 deals in footwear, headgear, belts and jewellery, and the ready
 made clothing is stated to be the largest source of it's revenue.
 As regards the reputation, the plaintiff is stated to be listed first
 in Forbes Platinum; Forbes 500 list of America's 1000 largest
 corporations, and ranked as amongst the most valuable brands
 by inter brand. Plaintiff is stated to have achieved significant
 commercial success and witnessed numerous milestones. It is
 stated to have opened various stores in different countries Page 3 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . between the year 2001 to 2014. Apart from using the
 AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS since 1997, the plaintiff has
 also been using the domain names ­
 americaneagleoutfitters.com and www.ae.com, and stated to be
 using the domain names - www.americaneagleoutfitters.in and
 americaneagleoutfitters.co.in, since the year 2011. 4. It is averred that the plaintiff has affiliates around the
 world. Plaintiff is stated to be the proprietor of Mark­
 AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS, which is claimed to be used
 either by itself or in conjunction with an eagle device for the
 purpose of clothing tags, retail stores, hoardings, signboards,
 invoices, catalogues, gift cards, discount cards, advertisements
 etc. Plaintiff extended it's business for clothing for pets and have
 adopted ­ AMERICAN BEAGLE OUTFITTERS in respect of the
 said business. 5. Plaintiff has more than 1050 stores/licencsed partners
 across the globe and it's marketing site is also stated to be
 accessible from around the world, including from India. 6. It is averred that the plaintiff company has ranked as
 amongst top 100 internet retailers in US and that consumers in
 about 81 countries can purchase their merchandise through it's
 e­commerce web site www.ae.com . Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 7. It is averred that the plaintiff revenue has risen from 1.3
 billion US Dollars to 3.823 billion US Dollars in the year 2014.
 As regards the advertisement, it has been claimed that the
 plaintiff had been advertising through telephone, print media,
 instore, sign­ages, direct mailings, advertisements in magazines,
 etc. and it's expenditure has risen from 44.4 million US dollar in
 2002 to 94.2 million US dollar till the year 2014. It is stated that
 the marks has also acquired the status of well known mark, and
 the mark ­ AMERICAN-EAGLE­OUTFITTERS is registered in
 more than 100 countries. The mark - AMERICAN EAGLE is
 stated to be registered in over 65 countries. The registrations
 pertains to various classes, being class­3, class­9, class­14, class­
 18, class­25 and class­35. 8. In so far as it's registration in India is concerned, it is
 averred that the trademark AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS is
 registered at no. 905098 on 25.02.2000 under class­25 and the
 mark­ AMERICAN EAGLE is registered at no. 1486587 on
 12.09.2000 under class­18 and 25. 9. Plaintiff has further claimed that eversince the year 1995,
 it has been engaged in getting it's merchandise manufactured
 from India, and since the year 2006, the consumers in India
 have been able to purchase plaintiff's goods from the web portal
 wwe.ae.com. Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 10. It is averred that the plaintiff has used it's mark in India
 quite extensively and it is a well known mark, in terms of Section 2 (1) (2g) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999. 11. Plaintiff became aware of the defendants application
 filed by defendant no. 2 for registration of it's impugned mark
 under class­25, relating to ready made garments, clothing,
 apparels, etc. Upon enquiries plaintiff is stated to have found
 that defendant no. 1 M/s Northern Harrier Lifestyles Pvt. Ltd. is
 engaged in the sale of clothing, using the mark­ AMERICAN
 FOX OUTFITTERS Device. It is stated that letter dated
 23.10.2015 for immediate cessation of use were issued, which
 were served upon the agents of defendants. Reply dated
 16.11.2015 is stated to have been received from the defendants.
 Plaintiff has claimed to have responded vide it's communication
 dated 20.11.2015 to the said reply. 12. Plaintiff has claimed that defendants continued to use the
 impugned mark and were also found to have activated the
 website - www.americanfox.co.in. It's merchandise is also
 stated to be available for sale on web portals like Flipkart. 13. It is averred that the business of the plaintiff and
 defendants are identical and that the impugned mark is highly
 similar in terms of it's structure, colour, font style, as well as
 over all impression, and having regard to the fact that the same Page 6 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . are being used in relation with identical goods, there is
 likelihood of confusion amongst the consumers. It is also
 averred that the defendant is neither a registered proprietor, nor
 even a permitted user of the said mark, and that the clothing of
 the defendant does not even match the superior quality of the
 clothing of the plaintiffs. By such adoption and use of the
 impugned trademark, plaintiff's reputation has suffered in terms
 of dilution. Defendant is stated to have committed a tort of
 passing off. 14. As regards jurisdiction, it is averred that the goods of the
 defendant are available within the jurisdiction of this court as
 same can be accessed through the website and purchased from
 within the jurisdiction of this court, as well as on the ground
 that the plaintiffs as it's business partners in Delhi. 15. Claiming cause of action accrued in favour of plaintiff. Following relief has been prayed for grant of permanent
 injunction restraining the Defendant Nos.1 to 5, their directors,
 officers, proprietors, agents, representatives, managers, employees,
 and related entities or persons, any entities or persons operating
 under their control, and all other acting for and on behalf of the
 Defendants, from manufacturing, marketing, offering for sale,
 selling, displaying, advertising, whether directly or indirectly, and
 whether online or offline, goods, including but not limited to,
 readymade clothing baring the Defendants' Mark, the word mark Page 7 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS, the Plaintiff's Marks or any mark
 that is either identical or deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's
 Marks; from doing any act that amounts to infringement of the
 Plaintiff's Marks; from passing­off their goods as those of the
 Plaintiff or from doing any acts that may suggest a connection or
 association with the Plaintiff; and from holding themselves out as
 being related to the Plaintiff in any manner. Plaintiff has further
 prayed for passing order directing the Defendant Nos.1 to 5 to
 immediately terminate the sale of readymade clothing and other
 goods bearing the Defendants' Mark in each of its stores in
 Lucknow, Surat and elsewhere in India; to immediately cease and
 desist from manufacturing readymade clothing and other goods
 bearing the Defendants' Mark, the word mark AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS, the Plaintiff's Marks or any mark that is either
 identical or deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's Marks; directing
 the Defendant No.2 to withdraw the trade mark application
 No.2835651 and give an undertaking to this Hon'ble Court to the
 effect that neither the Defendant No.2 nor the defendant No.2's
 agents/representatives/affiliated entities will apply to register any
 mark deceptively similar to any of the Plaintiff's Marks anywhere
 in the world; for delivery up by the Defendants to the Plaintiff of
 all goods, including readymade clothing, packaging, labels, price
 tickets and any other materials that bear the Defendants' Mark (s), Plaintiff's Marks, or any mark that is either identical of
 deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's Marks, in possession of the
 Defendants or a person or entity related to the Defendants or Page 8 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . under control of the Defendants, whether jointly or severally; as
 well as decree of rendition of accounts of the profits earned by the
 Defendants, either jointly or severally, from the activities
 complained of and a decree for the amount so found due to be
 passed in favour of the Plaintiff. The Plaintiff undertakes to file
 such court fee, as may be required by this Hon'ble Court at any
 point of time in future along with damages. 16. Defendant No.1 to 4 filed their common written
 statement raising the preliminary objections as to the suit being
 an abuse of process of law; not maintainable on the grounds of
 concealment of material facts and misrepresentation; based on
 mala fide & frivolous allegations and concocted stories; bad for
 want of jurisdiction; lack of any cause of action against the
 defendants. Defendants submitted that they are engaged in the
 business of manufacture and marketing of ready­made
 garments, clothing, apparels, footwear etc. and have conceived
 and adopted the trademark "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" in
 the year 2012 in respect of their business only after confirming
 that no other similar trade mark/ trade­name existed in the said
 business of clothing etc. and have also carried out extensive
 advertisement & promotional campaign in respect of their
 trademark "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS". The defendants are
 stated to have gained goodwill and reputation in market and
 have applied for registration of their trademark "AMERICAN
 FOX OUTFITTERS" in India. Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 17. Defendants further submitted that their trademark and
 the plaintiff's trade mark are absolutely different in mark, colour
 and font size and there is no deceptive similarity between the
 two. It is submitted that plaintiff's trademark device is "eagle"
 and defendants' trademark device is "fox" which are
 distinguishable. It is submitted that the plaintiff being a
 franchise of big American Company is mounting unwarranted &
 undue pressure & force upon the defendants to close their
 business, and that the defendants are not indulged in any
 business and trade using identical or similar mark of the
 plaintiff. Defendants' company is stated to have its own entity &
 reputation in the market and amongst the customers as it is one
 of the fastest growing manufacturers of ready­made garments &
 other goods. The plaintiff stated to have not opposed the
 registration of the defendants' trademark. The defendants are
 stated to have neither activated the domain name of plaintiff
 company nor controlled the website and that the domain name
 generated by defendants for their business and the website,
 never belonged to American Eagle Outfitter. 18. On merits, defendants denied the allegations
 made by plaintiff while submitting that the words American and
 Outfitters are common words and no exclusive right is made out
 according to Trademark Act, 1999. Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 19. It transpires that vide order dated 21.03.2016,
 defendant No.5 was proceeded exparte. 20. Vide order dated 20.07.2017, Learned Predecessor
 framed the following issues: 21. Vide order dated 15.03.2018, a Local Commissioner was
 appointed for the purpose of recording of evidence on behalf of
 the plaintiff. 22. Plaintiff examined Sh. Shashi Chaudhary as PW­1, Page 11 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . who tendered his evidence by way of affidavit Ex.PW1/A. He
 relied on the following documents: Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/9; 9. Printout from Whois records of the domain names of
 plaintiff, supported by certificate under Section 65B of
 Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/10; 10. Printouts of screenshots of web pages of the
 plaintiff's India specific website, supported by certificate
 under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/11
 (colly.); 11. Printouts of pictures showing use of American Eagle
 Outfitters mark on clothing, clothing labels, and retails
 stores, supported by certificate under Section 65B of
 Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/12 (colly.); 12. Printouts of pictures showing use of American Eagle
 mark on clothing, clothing labels, and retails stores,
 supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/13 (colly.); 13. Printouts of plaintiff's social media pages and
 printouts of screenshots of plaintiff's Ipad, Iphone and
 Android Apps, supported by certificate under Section
 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/14 (colly.); 14. Printouts of pictures showing use of American Eagle
 and American Beagle Outfitters and Device Mark on and
 in connection with readymade clothing for pets,
 supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/15 (colly.); 15. Printout of representative listing of the plaintiff's
 stores, supported with certificate under Section 65 ­B of
 Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/16; 16. Printout of report of the L2 Digital Index, supported
 by certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act
 as Ex.PW1/17; Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 17. Printouts of press release regarding the announcing
 the launch of the AE all access pass alongwith printouts
 of pictures of pass, supported by certificate under Section
 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/19 (colly.); 18. Printout of press release regarding the announcing
 sponsorship of the TV Show "The Apprentice", supported
 by certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act
 as Ex.PW1/20; 19. Printout of representative sampling the copies of
 advertisement along with Editorial Credits Reports from
 January 2006, April 2006, November 2006 and April
 2007, supported by certificate under Section 65B of
 Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/21 (colly.); 20. Printout of email advertisements by the plaintiff,
 supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/21 (colly.); 21. Printouts of Administrative Panel Decisions in Case
 Nos.DCN­1300514 dated 24.04.2013 and DCN­
 1200495 dated 18.12.2012 passed by Hong Kong
 International Arbitration, supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/24
 (colly.); 22. Copy of order dated 03.12.2014 in CS (OS)
 3705/2014 and order dated 25.10.2013 in CS (OS)
 2039/2013 passed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court as
 Mark­A (colly.); 23. Copy of Resolution No.1109999 dated 26.10.2015
 passed by Ecuadorian Institute of Intellectual Propert in
 process no.IEPI­UIO­OI­SD­2014­59416­RE along with
 certified English translation, supported by certificate
 under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/26
 (colly.); Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 24. A representative list of all the trademark
 registration of the American Eagle Outfitters Mark as of
 19.08.2014, supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/27 (colly.); 25. Copies of the trademark certificates for the Marks
 AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS and American Eagles
 as Mark­B (colly.); 26. Original trademark certificate of the Marks
 AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS, AMERICAN EAGLE
 and AMERICAN EAGLE Device as Ex.PW­1/29 (colly.); 27. Copies of the affidavits executed by Indian
 Manufacturers and copies of invoices issued by Indian
 Manufacturers for the manufacture of plaintiff's goods as
 Mark­C (colly.); 28. Copy of orders received from India and copies of
 invoices issued by the plaintiff company as Mark­D
 (colly.); 29. Printout of photographs of some Indian celebrities
 wearing clothing bearing one or more marks of the
 plaintiff's marks, supported by certificate under Section
 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/32; 30. Printout of the screenshots from few fashion blogs,
 supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian
 Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/33; 31. Copy of online data base of the Trade Mark Registry
 dated 29.12.2015 as Mark­E; 32. Investigation report dated 06.10.2015 as
 Ex.PW1/35; 33. Printouts of pictures showing the defendants Page 15 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . clothing items, supported by certificate under Section
 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/36 (colly.); 34. Two office copies of the cease and desist notice dated
 23.10.2015 alongwith three returned envelops etc. as
 Ex.PW1/37 (colly.); 35. Reply dated 28.10.2015 of the defendants as
 Ex.PW1/38; 36. Reply dated 20.11.2015 to the reply dated
 28.10.2015 as Ex.PW1/39; 37. Printouts of the extracts from the defendants'
 website dated 08.02.2016, supported by certificate under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/40
 (colly.); and 38. Printouts of the extract from the defendants'
 websites dated 09.02.2016, supported by certificate
 under Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act as Ex.PW1/41
 (colly.). 23. During cross examination, PW­1 submitted that he did
 not know as to who signed at Point­A on Ex.PW1/1. He
 submitted that no signature were put in his presence; and that
 he was not present at the time of execution of document
 Ex.PW1/1. He stated that Retail Royalty is an original company
 operating and incorporated in USA and the same has no
 franchise in India; that "American Fox Outfitters" is not the
 mark of the plaintiff and volunteered that the mark "American
 Fox Outfitters" is an infringement of the mark of the plaintiff.
 He admitted that plaintiff never used the word "American Fox
 Outfitters" as it has not been involved in the merchandise of the Page 16 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . same anywhere in the World and volunteered that "American
 Fox Outfitters" have never been used on any of the merchandise
 ever. He submitted that "Fox" has never been used either in any
 of their registered domain name till date or any of the affiliated
 companies all over the world; that there is no domain name
 registered either with only word "American" or with only word
 "Outfitters"; that the word Eagle is being used in the domain
 name and also as a device and neither word American nor word
 Outfitters is being used in the domain names; that the word
 American is used for residents of America or any product
 manufactured by USA or in USA; that word Eagle is a common
 word for bird and the outfitters, as per English Dictionary is
 normally used for tailors. PW­1 denied that America/ American
 and Eagle cannot be used by anyone in registering the domain
 names. 24. He deposed that font size and the font used by the
 company in the domain names are not specific as it can be typed
 in any font/size and the size of the font in Marks depends from
 product to product and he was not aware of the font being used
 by the company on the marks; that he was not competent to say
 about the type of font and its size used by the defendants but
 the use of the words American and the Outfitters in the mark
 and the domain names is sufficient to be deceptive and can be
 mistaken as a mark of the plaintiff company. He further
 submitted that their company has no retail outlets in India and Page 17 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . he was not aware whether defendants are selling their products
 outside India; that he was not aware if any foreign buyer
 outside of India had come across any such problem of
 deception; that they have not attached any complaint from any
 of their customers from anywhere. PW­1 deposed that the
 plaintiff company filed the opposition to the registration
 application of the defendants, but not aware as to passing of
 any order in this respect; and that he could not say anything
 about the losses, but the use of the mark by the defendant being
 deceptively similar to the plaintiff's company does create doubt
 in the minds of the buyers. He denied that the plaintiff company
 is not in loss due to the business of the defendant company or
 that the present suit was filed without any basis and documents;
 or even that defendant company never ever involved in
 infringement, passing off of plaintiff's domain name and marks.
 He further denied that the present suit has been filed to harass
 the defendants and to grab money from them. No other witness was examined on behalf of the plaintiff. 25. Defendants examined Sh. Basant Lal as DW­1 and Sh. Arun Kumar Maurya as DW­2. 26. DW­1 tendered his evidence by way of affidavit
 Ex.DW1/A and relied on the following documents: trademark details of AMERICAN EAGLE as Ex.DW1/12. 27. In cross examination, DW­1 deposed that Sh. Arun
 Kumar Maurya approached him to design the impugned mark;
 that Sh. Arun Kumar Maurya asked him to search/design a
 brand name and a logo in Class 25; that he did not have any
 legal knowledge of Trade Marks laws but he knew what are the
 restricted words or what are common words in Trade Mark
 registration as a layman. He deposed that no document relied
 upon by him is dated prior to 14.01.2016; that he did conduct a
 search in the Trademark Registry in Class 25 for conflicting
 marks before suggesting the impugned mark to defendant
 company. He stated that the examination report issued by
 Registrar of Trademark was shown to him and he asked the
 defendant to file reply; that he advised Sh. Arun Kumar Maurya
 that the words "American" and "Outfitters" are generic words
 and the trademark cannot be seen in individual words and it
 should be in conjunction of device of FOX along with jumble
 words and that trademarks in examination report were neither
 similar nor same. He further deposed that Sh. Arun Kumar,
 during the marketing of clothing, manufactured ready­made
 garments in the name of "American Fox Outfitters" and
 distributed the same to shops and response thereto was
 observed for more than one year; that after Sh. Arun Kumar did
 market research and he created & designed the trademark in the
 year 2012, he could say that the defendants are using
 "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" since 2012. He stated that Page 20 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . upon research, he found that there are many brands which
 either are using American or Oufitters or combination of both
 and if there are multiple brands in mark with similar word like
 American and Outfitter and if someone has exclusive rights on
 these words, the same should not have been used by others;
 that since there were already many people, in the trademark
 register, with the words American and Outfitters, he suggested
 the defendants to use American Fox Outfitters as it would create
 no problem. He further deposed that he designed the device
 FOX in defendants' trademark, which he picked from the
 internet. He denied that defendants' trademark was designed by
 keeping in mind the plaintiff's trademark. 28. DW­2 Sh. Arun Kumar Maurya tendered his evidence by
 way of affidavit Ex.DW2/1 and relied on the documents already
 exhibited as Ex.PW1/37 & Ex.PW1/38 and copy of receipt
 no.1272260 issued by Trade Mark Registry, Dwarka, New Delhi
 as Ex.DW2/4. 29. During cross examination, he deposed that no power of
 attorney was executed by defendant No.3 & 4 in his favour; that
 he personally searched about trade mark "AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS" from Ministry of Commerce and Trade Affairs
 and he took the advice from his technical experts, who, after
 research, informed him that there is no other brand exists in the
 name of "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS"; that Ministry of Page 21 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . Commerce and Industry, Department of Intellectual Property
 and Promotion never issued any conflict report; that he did not
 file any examination report in the present matter as the same
 has no concern with the said report by Trade Mark Registrar;
 that he did not remember that the plaintiff's mark "AMERICAN
 EAGLE OUTFITTERS" was cited as a conflicting mark in the said
 examination report; that he did not file any reply to the
 examination report in the present matter; that he did not know
 about the response in the said reply to the cited mark
 'AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS' vide application no.905098
 dated 22.02.2000; that he did not file any invoice raised by him
 regarding the sale under the Trade Mark AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS. 30. DW­2 deposed that he instructed Sh. Basant Lal to pick
 and design a logo which should be unique but did not instruct
 him to pick the image of FOX in his trademark from the internet
 and volunteered that he picked the FOX on his own; that till
 today he was not informed by Sh. Basant Lal that the device of
 FOX in his trademark was lifted from internet; that he was the
 one who selected the words American and Outfitters in the
 trademark; that there is no trademark licence agreement
 executed between him and defendant No.1; that he adopted the
 impugned trademark in 2012 and applied for registration in
 2014; that he has two trademarks namely "AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS" with device FOX and "BRITISH SQUARE"; that Page 22 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . he was aware that the plaintiff had filed an opposition against
 the registration of "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" with device
 FOX and defendant No.1 filed counter statement against that
 opposition of the plaintiff company; that he never asked/
 suggested by Sh. Basant Lal for withdrawing the trademark
 application after examination report issued by Trade Mark
 Registry; that presently his goods bearing impugned trademark
 "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" with device FOX are being sold
 in Delhi, UP, Bihar, MP, Uttrakhand, Kerala, Maharashtra,
 Gujarat and Karnataka; that the domain www.americanfox.com
 was started in 2015 and he is the owner of the said domain in
 his personal capacity. No other witness was examined by the defendants. 31. I have heard the Learned counsel for the parties and have
 gone through the relevant records as well as written
 submissions filed by the parties. 32. Main contentions of the Learned counsel for the plaintiff
 are: trademark "AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS" since
 1977 regularly and openly and as expended its business
 in number of countries. Plaintiff has also proved on
 record Brand ranking in the year 2009 to 2014, which
 is proved on record as Ex.PW1/8 and its finding place in
 Fortune 500, which is proved as Ex.PW1/7; 3. Plaintiff has also adopted a domain name
 "americaneagleoutfitters.com" in the year 2002 and has
 been using "americaneagleoutfittrs.in",
 "americaneagle.co.in" and "americaneagle.in", which are
 proved on record as Ex.PW1/9 and Ex.PW1/10; 4. Plaintiff has proved its extensive presence and
 advertisements as well as list of stores by means of
 document proved as Ex.PW1/12 to Ex.PW1/16; 5. Plaintiff has got its trademark registered under various
 jurisdictions. The list of which has been proved on record
 as Ex.PW1/27. As records registration in India, the
 plaintiff's trademark "AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS" 6. Plaintiff is the prior user by all means and as would be
 clear from the mark - E, the defendants have claimed
 their user details w.e.f. 01.05.2012, in their application
 dated 02.11.2014. The defendants' user of Mark
 "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" is mala fide adoption
 which is deceptively similar to the plaintiff's mark
 "AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS" and the defendants
 have been riding on the extensive goodwill and
 reputation painstakingly, built by the plaintiff company; 7. The defendants have copied the mark of the plaintiff in Page 24 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . its entirety, including structurally, placement of words,
 font style, etc. and have made cosmetic changes by
 incorporating word "FOX" and replacing the device of
 Eagle by the device of "FOX". The defendants have not
 been able to show that the adoption of the impugned
 mark is bona fide or innocent. The said adoption is
 capable of mis­leading an average and unwary consumer
 into confusion and make them believe that the
 defendants brand is an extension of the plaintiff, in view
 of the over all impression of similarity; 8. Plaintiff has also adopted the mark "AMERICAN BEAGLE
 OUTFITTERS" and accordingly, the use by the
 defendants of the mark "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" 9. Defendants did not exercise due diligence before adopting
 the impugned mark and in its report dated 07.01.2016
 in respect of the defendants' mark, the Registry of
 Trademark has cited the plaintiff's mark, which itself
 shows that the defendants' mark is distinctively similar
 to the plaintiff; 10. The defendant continues to use the impugned mark
 despite Cease & Desist Notice - Ex.PW1/37; 11. Defendants are guilty of infringement as well as
 passing off as all the elements distinctive similarity an
 likelihood of confusion and the plaintiff continue to sell
 identical goods have been proved on record. The plaintiff
 is entitled to damages, delivery­up as well as injunction
 in view of the fact that the defendant has dishonestly
 adopted the mark distinctively similar to that of the
 plaintiff and has not been able to justify the adoption as
 honest. 33. The main contentions of the Learned counsel for the Page 25 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . defendants are: the other party. Font size and alignment of both the
 marks are absolutely different; 6. In terms of Vienna Code, the device of Eagle and Fox are
 different and as such, the plaintiff cannot claim any
 similarity. There is no infringement and passing off by
 the defendants as there is no confusion or distinctive
 similarity, insofar as the trademark of the plaintiff and
 the trademark of the defendants are concerned; 7. No distinctiveness can be claimed by the plaintiff as there
 are more than dozen registered trademarks which
 contain the word "American" or "Outfitters". The
 defendants have already proved the same on record. No
 exclusive rights, thus, can be made out in respect of the
 said words; 8. Insofar as the defendants' mark is concerned, the same
 should be seen in conjunction/conjugation to Fox Device
 along with the jumbled word "AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS" rather than in individual word
 "American", "Fox" and "Outfitters"; 9. There is no direct or indirect adoption of plaintiff's mark
 and there is no element of passing off as the defendants'
 adoption of the mark "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" is
 honest adoption of the mark with device of Fox and that
 the defendants have created a mark of their own as well
 as earned valuable reputation and goodwill because of
 quality of goods. 34. Time now to deal with the issues. 1. Whether the defendants have honestly adopted the Page 27 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . mark AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS & Fox Device on
 and in relation to readymade clothing? OPD 2. Whether the defendant use of the mark AMERICAN
 FOX OUTFITTERS & Fox Device on and in relation to
 readymade clothing constitutes infringement of
 plaintiff's Marks? OPP 3. Whether the defendants by use of the mark
 AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS & Fox Device on and
 in relation to readymade clothing have engaged in
 passing­off? OPP 35. Issue No.1 to 3 are taken up together being
 interconnected. 36. The plaintiff's case is that the adoption of the trademark
 "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" with device Fox by the
 defendants is a dishonest adoption, and that it is deceptively
 similar to the mark of the plaintiff "AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS", not only in terms of the adoption of essential
 features but also structurally. It is their case that the defendants
 have infringed their marks, and as well are liable for
 consequences arising out of passing off considering the
 deceptive similarity of the marks, the identical trade and the
 defendants' failure to desist from using the mark despite Cease
 & Desist Notice. The defendants' narrative, on the other hand, is
 that not only the adoption of mark "AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS" is honest one, effected only after due diligence by
 means of market research, and search in the trademark registry, Page 28 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . but also cannot be interfered with for the reasons that the words
 "American" and "Outfitters" are generic terms, and no monopoly
 can be claimed by the plaintiff on such elements. 37. The narratives in conflict foreground various aspects for
 the consideration of the court, respecting priority of the user,
 similarity of the marks, distinctiveness or lack of it, as well as
 infringement and passing off. 38. To begin with, the question of priority of adoption and
 user is taken up. The plaintiff has invited the attention of the
 court towards various documents proved on record while
 contending that it was in the year 1977 that the plaintiff started
 using the said trademark in relation with its trade of garments.
 The attention of the court is also invited towards Ex.PW1/27­
 list of registrations of the plaintiff's mark "AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS" in different countries. It transpires that the
 earliest registration of the mark "AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS" relates to the year 1993. Attention of the court is
 also invited towards Ex.PW1/29 - registration of trademark in
 India, which shows that the trademark "AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS" was registered at No. 905098 under Class­25 on
 22.02.2000, and the mark is disclosed to be used eversince
 01.01.1991. In respect of mark "AMERICAN EAGLE", the
 registration pertains to 12.09.2006, although it is shown to be
 "proposed to be used". As regard the device, the device stands Page 29 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . registered in the name of the plaintiff under Class­99 on
 30.01.2008. 39. So far as the defendants mark is concerned, it is
 defendants own case that they have started using the impugned
 mark "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS" since the year 2012. Even
 if the records pertaining to the registration of the plaintiff's
 trademark with other countries is over looked for a moment, the
 registration certificate proved as Ex.PW1/29 (colly.) clearly
 indicate that the Trademark of the plaintiff "AMERICAN EAGLE
 OUTFITTERS" was being used by the plaintiff since 1991 under
 Class­25 and registered in India on 22.02.2000. The device as
 well stands registered as on 30.01.2008 and the trademark
 "AMERICAN EAGLE" also stands registered as on 12.09.2006.
 The said certificates read with other material proved on record
 clearly and adequately establishes that the plaintiff is the prior
 adapter, user, and also is registered in respect of the trademark
 "AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS" and "AMERICAN EAGLE" as
 well as device are concerned. 40. Priority of adoption and use of a mark is one of the most
 central tenets of the law relating to intellectual property rights.
 It rigidity neutralizes or trivializes a number of defences that it
 may counter in a given case. The priority of adoption, use and
 registration of plaintiff's mark, definitely makes the defendants'
 burden to prove its mark to be falling within exceptions Page 30 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . identified by law, even heavier. 41. This brings the court to the contention of the defendants
 as to existence of distinguishing features/ dis­similarities.
 Insofar as the distinctive features are concerned, it has been
 contended by the Learned counsel for the defendants that not
 only the marks in question are using different font style/ type,
 font size but also the fact that the plaintiff's mark contains the
 word and device 'Eagle' whereas the defendants' mark contain
 the word and device 'Fox' which are clearly distinguishable. It is
 also contended that the plaintiff cannot claim any rights in font
 colour and as also failed to prove the font style as the same. The
 plaintiff side, on the other hand, has contended that there is
 enough similarity between the two so as to cause confusion,
 which is clear from the structure, placement of the text,
 placement of device and the colour used by the defendants. It is
 impressed that the same could not have occurred except by
 dishonest adoption by the defendants. 42. It has also been contended by the Learned counsel for the
 defendants that for the trademark to be evaluated, it is to be
 seen as a whole and cannot be dissected for the purpose of
 evaluation. It is, accordingly, pressed that the over all
 appearance of two marks in itself are distinguishable and thus,
 there is no likelihood of deception. Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 43. Before proceeding further, reference to the case laws
 appeared to be desirable. 44. In Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma vs. Navaratna
 Pharmaceutical Laboratories (1965) 1 SCR 737: AIR 1965
 SC 980, Hon'ble Supreme Court observed: introduce any element which is not already covered by
 the words "likely to deceive" and it has sometimes been
 answered by saying that it is merely an extension of the
 earlier test and does not add very materially to the
 concept indicated by the earlier words "likely to deceive".
 But this apart, as the question arises in an action for
 infringement the onus would be on the plaintiff to
 establish that the trademark used by the defendant in
 the course of trade in the goods in respect of which his
 mark is registered, is deceptively similar. This has
 necessarily to be ascertained by a comparison of the two
 marks­ the degree of resemblance which is necessary to
 exist to cause deception not being capable of definition
 by laying down objective standards. The persons who
 would be deceived are, of course, the purchasers of the
 goods and it is the likelihood of their being deceived that Page 32 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . is the subject of consideration. The resemblance may be
 phonetic, visual or in the basic idea represented by the
 plaintiff's mark. The purpose of the comparison is for
 determining whether the essential features of the
 plaintiff's trademark are to be found in that used by the
 defendant. The identification of the essential features of
 the mark is in essence a question of fact and depends on
 the judgment of the Court based on the evidence led
 before it has regards the usage of the trade. It should,
 however, be borne in mind that the object of the equity
 in ultimate analysis is whether the mark used by the
 defendant as a whole is deceptively similar to that of the
 registered mark of the plaintiff." 45. In Colgate Palmolive Company vs. Anchor Health 108
 (2003) DLT 51, the Hon'ble High Court held as under: 46. In Cadila Health Care Ltd vs. Cadila Pharmaceutical
 Ltd (2001) 5 Supreme Court Cases 73, Hon'ble Supreme Court
 observed as under: Having come to the conclusion, in our opinion Page 34 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . incorrectly, that the difference in essential features is
 relevant, this Court in Dyechems case (supra) sought to
 examine the difference in the two marks Piknic and
 Picnic. It applied three tests, they being 1) is there any
 special aspect of the common feature which has been
 copied ? 2) mode in which the parts are put together
 differently i.e. whether dissimilarity of the part or parts
 is enough to make the whole thing dissimilar and 3)
 whether when there are common elements, should one
 not pay more regard to the parts which are not common,
 while at the same time not disregarding the common
 parts ?. In examining the marks, keeping the aforesaid
 three tests in mind, it came to the conclusion, seeing the
 manner in which the two words were written and the
 peculiarity of the script and concluded that the above
 three dissimilarities have to be given more importance
 than the phonetic similarity or the similarity in the use
 of the word PICNIC for PIKNIK." 47. In Cadbury India Ltd. v. Neeraj Food Products (2007)
 142 DLT 724, it has been observed that: ...................... 49. Undoubtedly, the law precepts that such an evaluation is
 to be done by looking at the marks as a whole, however, the law
 does not completely proscribes the comparison of dominant and
 essential features of the marks in question. Besides, the
 principles governing the evaluation of marks are "similarity"
 centric as it has been held that for the purpose of arriving at a
 conclusion, the court has to look into the similarities between
 the marks, in preference over dis­similarities. 50. Having regard to the above, it transpires that the
 similarity quotient between two marks is so high and it far out Page 38 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . weighs the dissimilarities. The selection of words "American" &
 "Outfitters" per se, cannot be a mere chance. The use of words
 in Capital letters, and the placement of the word "American" in
 the beginning and the word "Outfitters" towards the end of both
 the marks contributes heavily towards similarity of the marks.
 No doubt, the word in between the two i.e. "Eagle" in the case
 of the plaintiff and "Fox" in the case of the defendants, with
 their corresponding device perched atop are different, however,
 the structural appearances and the first impression of two marks
 are found to have a striking connection. Although, it has been
 impressed by the Learned counsel for the defendants that the
 court cannot dissect the marks so as to find the similarities,
 having regard to the observations made in Kaviraj Pandit
 Durga Dutt Sharma vs. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
 Laboratories (1965) 1 SCR 737: AIR 1965 SC 980; Cadila
 Health Care Ltd vs. Cadila Pharmaceutical Ltd (2001) 5
 Supreme Court Cases 73; and Walter Bushnell Pvt ltd & Ors
 vs. Miracle Life Sciences & Anr. 2014 SCC OnLine Del 3243: and text "Eagle" and "Fox" are different but same are eclipsed
 by other dominant and essential features and the dis­similarity
 on this count is muted further by use of same colour and
 placement of the device. Over all impression of the defendants
 mark shows that its configuration is more aligned towards
 resemblance with plaintiff's mark, to such a degree that
 confusion amongst the class of purchasers, cannot be ruled out.
 There is an extraordinary coherence between the two marks and
 the dissimilarities, as induced by "Fox" and "Fox Device," are
 not too strong or prominent enough to offset the similarities
 that define the marks in question. 51. Having regard to what have been stated by DW­1 as
 regards the adoption of the mark "AMERICAN FOX
 OUTFITTERS" and considering the two marks in question, on
 the touch stones of their structure and general appearance, it is
 clear that the same could hardly occur otherwise then direct
 imitation. Thus, the microcosm and macrocosm of defendants'
 mark, grossly as well as subtly indicate the dishonest adoption
 of plaintiff's mark with introduction of different device in order
 that the mark can be claimed to be different than that of the
 plaintiff's. 52. In Sarabhai International Ltd & Another vs Sara
 Exports International AIR 1988 Delhi 134, where the
 defendant was using similar trade mark and parties were in Page 40 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . similar business, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court held that: 53. Having regard to the similarity quotient of the marks,
 the likelihood of confusion cannot be ruled out. It is impressed
 upon by the Learned counsel for the defendants that the
 plaintiff has not been able to cite even a single instance of any
 confusion or any mistaken purchase. In view of the law settled,
 such instances are not expected to be proved, once the
 deceptive similarity of the marks is proved on record. 54. This brings the court to the next contention of the
 defendants relating to the descriptive and generic nature of the
 terms / words "American" and "Outfitters". Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 55. In the opinion of the court, the defendants' contention to
 the above effect is hedged by two limitations ­ (i) the
 defendants themselves had applied for the registration of their
 mark "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS"; and (ii) that even if the
 word is generic, the mark having attained distinctiveness cannot
 be ruled out. 56. As far as the first limitation is concerned, the court may
 profitably resorted to the observations made by Hon'ble High
 Court of Delhi in Automatic Electric Limited v. R.K. Dhawan &
 Anr. , 1999 IAD Delhi 603, 77 (1999) DLT 292 and Indian
 Hotels Company Ltd. & Anr. v. Jiva Institute of Vedic Science
 & Culture. 57. In Automatic Electric Limited v. R.K. Dhawan & Anr. ,
 1999 IAD Delhi 603, 77 (1999) DLT 292, the Hon'ble High
 Court of Delhi observed as under: registered in Australia. The fact that the defendant itself
 has sought to claim trade proprietary right and
 monopoly in "DIMMER DOT", it does not lie in their
 mouth to say that the word "DIMMER" is a generic
 expression." 58. In Indian Hotels Company Ltd. & Anr. v. Jiva Institute
 of Vedic Science & Culture, the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi
 observed as under: 59. Having itself applied for the registration, the defendants
 side is estopped from claiming any lack of distinctiveness or that
 the words "American" and "Outfitters" are merely generic terms.
 Besides, it is the defendants' own contention, as also recorded in
 their written submissions that their mark should be seen in
 conjunction/ conjugation to Fox device along with jumbled
 words "AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS", which in itself is
 suggestive of the fact that the said words, when read with
 conjunction with other words can be claimed to be distinctive.
 Even otherwise, a word in itself howsoever generic it may be,
 can attain distinctiveness. 60. In case titled as T.V. Venugopal v. Ushodaya
 Enterprises Ltd. (2011) 4 SCC 85, Hon'ble Supreme Court
 observed as under: 61. Considering the above, the plea of the defendants side as
 to the word "American" and "Outfitters" being generic or
 descriptive does not do the defendants' case any good. 62. In order to buttress this contention further, Learned
 counsel for the defendant has also vehemently impressed that in
 terms of Ex.PW1/1 to Ex.PW1/12, the defendants have proved
 that the words "American" & "Outfitters" as well as "Eagle" are
 being used by various third parties including registered
 trademark owners pertaining to the same Class. The court,
 however, is of the opinion that the said contention would not
 advance the case of the defendants as the rights of the parties to
 the lis are to be determined, and existence of several other
 parties using the similar mark would not alter this position. 63. In Amrit Soap Company V/s New Punjab Soap Factory
 1989 (2) ACR 242, where the defendant resisted the
 infringement and passing off action by the plaintiff on the Page 44 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . ground that there are several other parties using the trademark ­
 "Billy" in question, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court, while taking
 into consideration the priority of use, negated the contention of
 the defendant, holding:­

 "11. It was next submitted by counsel for the defendant
 that the plaintiff has no right to use the trade mark
 "BILLY" and artistic wrapper as so many other parties
 who are referred to earlier were also using the same
 trade mark. This contention of the defendant is wholly
 devoid of any force. In this connection it is sufficient to
 say that under the law it is the right of two parties
 before the court which has to be determined and, as
 already discussed, the plaintiff being prior user has the
 better and legal right to seek relief from this court". 64. In Rolex SA vs. Alex Jewellery Pvt Ltd. and Ors. 2009
 (41) PTC 284 (Del.), the Hon'ble Delhi High Court observed: 65. The contention as to the existence of third party users,
 also did not find any acceptance in Tata Iron Steel Co. V/s
 Mahaveer Steels & Ors. 1992 (47) DLT 412 & Jindal
 Industries Ltd. V. Samana Steels Ltd. 1993 (13) PTC 129. 66. Coming now to the aspect of Infringement and passing
 off. Before proceeding further, reference to the case law appears
 to be desirable. 67. In the case of Ruston & Hornsby Limited vs. Zamindara
 Engineering Co. (1969) 2 SCC 727, observed thus: 68. In Laxmikant V. Patel v. Chetanbhat Shah and
 Another, AIR 2002 Supreme Court 275, Hon'ble Supreme
 Court had observed as under: 69. Satyam Infoway Ltd vs. Siffynet Solutions (P) Ltd (2004) 6 Supreme Court Cases 145, Hon'ble Supreme Court
 observed as under: 15. The third element of a passing off action is loss or
 the likelihood of it." 70. In Cadila Health Care Ltd vs. Cadila Pharmaceutical
 Ltd (2001) 5 Supreme Court Cases 73, Hon'ble Supreme Court
 observed as under: are likely to exercise in purchasing and/or using the
 goods. f) The mode of purchasing the goods or placing
 orders for the goods and g) Any other surrounding circumstances which may
 be relevant in the extent of dissimilarity between
 the competing marks. 71. In Walter Bushnell Pvt ltd & Ors vs. Miracle Life
 Sciences & Anr. 2014 SCC OnLine Del 3243: (2014) 213 DLT
 119: (2014) 59 PTC 339, it has been observed that: 72. In the recent judgment passed by the Hon'ble High Court
 of Delhi, the relevant considerations for grant of relief for a
 claim based on intellectual property rights have been
 summarized. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Phonepe Pvt
 Ltd vs. EZY Services & Anr. IA 8084/2019 in CS (Comm)
 292/2019 decided on 15.04.2021 observed as under: customer who would purchase the product is relevant.
 The look/appearance, and the sound, of the trade
 marks, as well as the nature of the goods, are all
 relevant considerations. Surrounding circumstances are
 also relevant. (ii) The onus of proof is on the plaintiff who alleges passing
 off. As against this, in an opposition to the registration
 of a trade mark, the onus to prove deceptive similarity is
 on the defendant who seeks non­registration, or removal
 of the trade mark from the register. (iii) "Confusion" refers to the state of mind of the customer
 who, on seeing the mark, thinks that it differs from the
 mark on the goods which he has previously bought, but
 is doubtful whether that impression is not due to
 imperfect recollection. The question is one of first
 impression. (iv) This is especially true in the matter of phonetic
 similarity. A meticulous comparison of the words,
 syllable by syllable, is to be avoided. The possibility of
 careless pronunciation and speech, both on the part of
 the buyer walking into the shop, as well as the shop
 assistant, is also required to be factored into
 consideration. (v) The matter has to be examined from the point of view of
 a person of average intelligence and imperfect
 recollection. It has to be seen as to how such a purchaser
 would react to the trade mark, the association which he
 would form and how he would connect the trade marks
 with the goods he would be purchasing. (vi) The Pianotist test, postulated over a century ago, has
 repeatedly been endorsed by the Supreme Court, as the
 definitive test to be adopted while comparing rival trade
 marks. According to this test, the Court is required to
 judge the rival trade marks by their look and sound, and Page 52 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . consider, (a) the goods to which they are to be applied (b) the nature and kind of customer who would be likely
 to buy those goods, (c) all surrounding circumstances and (d) the consequences which would follow if each of the
 marks is used in the normal way as the trade mark
 for the goods of the respective owners. While doing
 so, the common part of the words forming the
 competing marks may not be decisive. The overall
 similarity of the composite words is required to be
 seen, having regard to the circumstance (if
 applicable) that both are on like goods of similar
 description. The test to be applied is whether, if the
 two marks are used in a normal and fair manner,
 there is likelihood of confusion or deception. (vii) The whole word/mark is to be considered. An ordinary
 man would not split a word or name, in a trade mark,
 into its components, but would go by the overall
 structural and phonetic similarity of the marks at the
 nature of the goods previously purchased, or of which he
 has been told and which he wants to purchase. It has to
 be examined whether the totality of the trademark of the
 defendant is likely to cause deception/confusion or
 mistake in the minds of the persons accustomed to the
 existing trade mark of the plaintiff. (viii) The resemblance may be phonetic, visual or in the
 basic idea represented by the plaintiff's mark. The Court
 is, however, required to apply both the phonetic and the
 visual tests. At times, ocular similarity may be sufficient
 to find possibility of confusion/deception, even if the
 marks are visually dissimilar, though ocular similarity,
 by itself, may not, generally, be the decisive test. Where,
 however, (i) in all other respects, the marks of the Page 53 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . plaintiff and defendant are different, (ii) the
 word/words, in the marks, which are phonetically
 similar, cannot be regarded as the dominant word, or
 essential feature, in the marks, and (iii) the surrounding circumstances also belie any possibility
 of confusion, it has been held that deceptive similarity
 cannot be found to exist merely on the basis of phonetic
 similarity or even identity. The matter, apparently, is
 always one of fact. The Court would have to decide, on a
 comparison of the two marks, and the parts thereof
 which are phonetically similar, as to whether such
 phonetic similarity is likely, considering all other
 circumstances, to confuse or deceive a purchaser of
 average intelligence and imperfect recollection, always
 bearing in mind the nature of the goods, and the degree
 of circumspection which would be expected of the
 purchasers who would purchase such goods. (ix) The Court is required to examine whether the essential
 features of the plaintiff's mark are to be found in the
 mark of the defendant. Identification of the essential
 features is a question of fact, left to the discretion of the
 Court. (x) No objective standards are possible, regarding the degree
 of similarity which is likely to cause deception. It has to
 be seen from the viewpoint of the purchasers of the
 goods. (xi) The test to be applied would depend on the facts of the
 case. Precedents are valuable only to the extent they
 specify tests for application, and not on facts. (xii) On the issue of deceptive similarity, and especially with
 respect to the aspect of phonetic similarity, English cases
 are not of relevance. English cases are useful only to the
 extent they aid in understanding the essential features of
 trade mark law. The tests for deceptive similarity, which Page 54 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . apply in other jurisdictions, may not always apply in
 India." 73. Having regard to the factual calculus and the law as
 discussed above, the court comes to the following conclusions: are generic / are not distinctive by themselves, there
 conjunction with other and depiction in a particular
 format, renders the same as distinctive, and it is for this
 reason that the plaintiff has been able to secure with the
 registration of its mark. To believe or to hold that there is
 no distinctiveness in the mark of the plaintiff would
 amount to leach the mark of its very protection
 guaranteed by registration. 3. The defendants have not been able even to carve out their
 case as honest and concurrent user, although there is a
 feeble attempt by the defendants to impress upon the court
 that the adoption of the impugned mark is honest and Page 55 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . pursuant to due research. 4. The fact that the defendants have themselves applied for
 the registration, implies a clear divestiture of right to
 claim that the words "American" & "Outfitters" used in
 plaintiff's mark are descriptive/generic. 5. The probability of confusion amongst the class of buyers is
 high having regard to the quotient of similarity between
 the marks in question, which is further sharpened by the
 fact that the marks are being used in identical trade. 6. The plaintiff is a prior user of the mark, and considering
 the rigidity that defines the rights of the prior adapter
 and user, the defendants cannot be permitted to use the
 mark identical or deceptively similar to that of the
 plaintiff. 74. Since the plaintiff has been able to prove the mark of the
 defendants to be deceptively similar, the plaintiff has been able
 to prove it to be a case of infringement as well as passing off.
 What factors in significantly here is that the defendants
 continue to proceed with his business even after the issuance of
 Cease & Desist Notice. 75. In view of the above, issue No.1 is decided against the
 defendants and issue No.2 & 3 are decided in favour of the
 plaintiff. ISSUE NO.4 4. If the above issues or any of them are decided in Page 56 of 58 Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . favour of the plaintiff, then to what relief including
 of damages and if so in what amount is the plaintiff
 entitled to and from which of the defendants? OPP 76. Although, it is impressed upon the court that the plaintiff
 is entitled to damages, having regard to the fact that there is no
 evidence by the plaintiff as to suffering of any pecuniary
 damages, the court is not inclined to grant of damages to the
 plaintiff. RELIEF 77. As a sequel to the findings above, the suit is partly
 decreed and the defendants, their directors, officers,
 proprietors, agents, representatives, managers, employees, and
 related entities or persons, etc. are hereby permanently
 restrained from using the mark AMERICAN FOX OUTFITTERS,
 or any other marks either identical or deceptively similar to that
 of the plaintiff's as well as from using the website/ domain -
 www.americanfox.co.in or any other domain identical or
 deceptively similar to that of the plaintiff. 78. Cost of the suit is also awarded to the plaintiff. Decree
 sheet be prepared. 79. File be consigned to the record room after due
 compliance. Retail Royalty Company vs. Northern Harrier Lifestyle Pvt Ltd . 80. Ahlmad is directed to send the copy of this judgment to
 the Learned counsel for the parties through email, if available
 on record. (NIKHIL CHOPRA)
 (currently posted as)
 SPECIAL JUDGE, CBI ­ 13, (PC ACT)
 ROUSE AVENUE DISTRICT COURT,
 NEW DELHI/15.07.2022

(TO BE ANNOUNCED BY THE COURT OF SH. DINESH KUMAR,
LEARNED ADDL. DISTRICT JUDGE­02, SOUTH, SAKET COURTS,
NEW DELHI ON 15.07.2022) Page 58 of 58