This second application under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure has been filed on behalf of the applicant for grant of bail in
 connection with Crime No.603/2022 registered at Police Station Kolgavan
 District Satna, for the offence punishable under Sections 420 / 34 and 409 of
 IPC. Earlier application of the applicant was dismissed on merit vide order
 dated 05/07/2022. Counsel for the applicant submits that applicant is in jail since Signature Not Verified Signed by: SUSHMA KUSHWAHA Signing time: 9/26/2022 6:26:42 PM 2 28/04/2022. He further submits that as per the case of prosecution, the present
 applicant has committed fraud through online with a blue dot company as he
 has some how acquired the ID password of the employee of the blue dot
 company and by placing an order for purchasing the mobile from Amazon
 company has created fake account. The other co-accused persons have also
 involved along with the present applicant and those accused are resident of
 Jammu and Kashmir. The present applicant had worked with the blue dot
 company as a delivery boy and thereafter got promoted and posted at Baidhan
 branch. He submits that in the month of December 2021, he had resigned from
 the company. He further submits that applicant has been made accused on the

 basis of memorandum and case of Section 409 of IPC is not made out,
 because as per the case of prosecution, he is not the employee of a company to
 which fraud has been committed. He submits that Amazon company has not
 made any complaint against the present applicant. It is the blue dot company
 who is complainant and on their instance offence has been registered. He
 submits that the police has arrested the present applicant and made him
 accused, whereas nothing has been collected by the prosecution, so as to
 implicate him. According to him, memorandum is not admissible, therefore,
 applicant be released on bail. Counsel for State has opposed the bail application, and submitted that
 once application has been rejected on merit second bail application without
 there being any change in circumstance is not maintainable. She submits that
 account details of applicant and documents available in the case diary clearly
 indicate that transaction of huge amount has been made from the account of the
 present applicant. She submits that memorandum is corroborating with the
 statement of account of the present applicant and as such he has rightly been Signature Not Verified Signed by: SUSHMA KUSHWAHA Signing time: 9/26/2022 6:26:42 PM 3 made accused. Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case and the fact
 that there is no change in circumstance, this Court does not deem it appropriate
 to grant bail to the applicant. Accordingly, this application is hereby rejected. (SANJAY DWIVEDI)
 JUDGE
 sushma Signature Not Verified Signed by: SUSHMA KUSHWAHA Signing time: 9/26/2022 6:26:42 PM