This appeal filed by the assessee is directed against the order dated

11.08.2017 of the CIT(A)-XXVI, New Delhi relating to assessment year

2006-07. 2. Facts of the case, in brief, are that the assessee is an individual and

derives income from salary, business and profession and income from other

sources apart from declaring long term capital loss. He filed his return of

income on 30.10.2006 declaring total income of Rs.20,73,131/-. A search and

seizure action u/s 132 was carried out in the case of the assessee on 20.01.2012.

In response to notice u/s 153A, the assessee filed the return of his income on 2 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 22.11.2012 declaring total income of Rs.20,73,131/- which is the same as was

declared in the original return of income. 3. The Assessing Officer issued notice u/s 142(1) to the assessee on

18.07.2013 requiring him to file certain information in respect of HSBC Bank

Switzerland. Since there was no compliance to this notice, the Assessing

Officer levied penalty of Rs.10,000/- u/s 271(1)(b) which was subsequently

confirmed by the ld. CIT(A). Subsequently, the assessee, in response to notice

u/s 143(2) and the questionnaire issued, appeared before the Assessing Officer

through his Authorized Representative and filed details as called for from time

to time. The Assessing Officer observed that as per the information received

under DTAA/DTAC between India and other countries, certain persons in India

(including the assessee) held bank accounts in HSBC Private bank (Suisse), SA,

Switzerland (hereinafter referred to as the HSBC Bank). He observed that in

respect of the assessee, information was received in the form of a 7 page

document which was provided to the assessee. The Assessing Officer observed

that during the course of search u/s 132, statement of the assessee was recorded

u/s 132(4) wherein he was specifically asked to give details of his foreign bank

accounts. The assessee denied to have any such foreign bank account. The

Assessing Officer reproduced the reply given by the assessee in response to

various questions. The important questions that were asked in the said

statement are Question No.56 to 59, the details of which are as under :- 3 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 Q.59 Please furnish details of foreign travel to Switzerland made during 2004,
 2005, 2006 and 1998? 4. He observed that the assessee filed a letter dated 09.02.2012 before the

DDIT (Inv.), New Delhi wherein he clarified that during the search operation

certain documents related to an Overseas Bank account were shown to him

according to which the accounts belonged to some trust/companies. The name

of the assessee appeared in that statement as a beneficiary/attorney holder

together with some of his family members. It was clarified by the assessee that

neither he created such an entity nor is he aware of one existing as on date. The

assessee submitted that not a single document related to the above account was

found from the residential premises of the assessee during the course of search

operation. It was stated that even if the bank statement in respect of the said

bank account are old and may fall outside the block period, however, as

assessee's name accidently happens to appear in the statement as a

beneficiary/attorney holder, in order to buy peace and avoid litigation with the

revenue authorities, the assessee is willing to pay income tax and interest due

thereon for the relevant assessment year, provided no penal action and/or

prosecution action is undertaken. The assessee also requested to keep the

statement confidential and not to share with any agency/individual since offer

has been made to protect the assessee from undue harassment.

4.1 Subsequently, the assessee while filing the return in response to notice u/s

153A filed a letter dated 21.11.2012 retracting from the offer made earlier on

the ground that no letter has been issued to the assessee accepting his request for

non-initiation of penal action and/or prosecution action for concealment of 5 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 income. It was stated therein that he, his wife and mother were put to undue

pressure and the assessee was forced to sign the letter under duress. Even a part

of the jewellery was seized although the same was duly explained and,

therefore, the assessee and his family members do not have peace of mind. In

the said letter, it was further mentioned that the information was passed on to a

TV Channel. 4.2 The Assessing Officer, during the course of assessment proceedings,

recorded the statement of the assessee on 02.12.2014 wherein the assessee again

denied to have any knowledge about the existence of the bank account.

However, the Assessing Officer was not satisfied with the statement given by

the assessee as well as the explanation made during the course of assessment

proceedings. He observed that the assessee has opened and/or operated

account(s) in HSBC Bank and has been given a unique code which is BUP

SIFIC PER ID 9070142903. His profile was found linked to five client profiles

namely, ASPREY WORLWIDE S.A., RONDEBERG LIMITED, TAIRA

FOUNDATION, 12717 RSK AND MENKO FOUNDATION, VADUZ. Although reference(s) has/have been sent to competent authorities in

Switzerland and other countries to verify the above foreign bank accounts

however, till date the verificatory report in respect of above foreign bank

account(s) has not been received. In view of these facts and since the

assessment was getting barred by limitation on 31.03.2015 he proceeded to

complete the assessment. ITA No.5499/Del/2017 5. He observed that : Since in the column maximum balance amount during the period is
 written as [non reference], no amount is being taxed qua this account. (5) Client profile MENKO FOUNDATION, VADUZ (Code- 9072011212) was created on 27.08.1991 and closed on 07.08.1992. Shri
 Parag Dalmia is shown as 'Beneficial Owner' in client profile of Menko
 Foundation, Vaduz. Since in the column maximum balance amount
 during the period is written as [non reference], no amount is being taxed
 qua this account. 6. The Assessing Officer observed that the information in the form of the

document has been collected by the Government of India from credible sources 7 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 wherein the name of the assessee, his date of birth, address and other details are

appearing. The nature of the said details being personal in nature cannot

generally be accessed to without the consent/permission/authorization of the

assessee. The inference is further corroborated by the fact that in the profile of

the client 12717 RSK, in which the assessee has been shown as the account

holder, the name of the family members such as Sangeeta Dalmia - wife, Aruna

Dalmia - mother and Narahari Dalmia - father are appearing as attorneys. This

according to the Assessing Officer gives credence to the genuineness of the

document and veracity to the details mentioned therein. Further from the details

furnished by the assessee regarding his travel to Switzerland, he inferred that the

assessee was physically present in Switzerland when the document was created

and/or some operation has taken place. He observed that the accounts could not

have been opened without the permission of the assessee or without his

knowledge. The link between the travels which the assessee has undertaken to

Switzerland and the creation/modification of the linked client profiles indicate

that there is some relation between the two and there is some further

information which is not being made available to the Department intentionally

thereby concealing the information from the Department. As regards the

submission of the assessee that it is stolen data and he has no idea under what

circumstances his name, name of his family members and other personal

particulars are appearing in the document, the Assessing Officer observed that

the document was received from French Government under mutual agreement 8 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 signed between India and France. Moreover, assuming but not admitting that

the data is stolen, the Assessing Officer held that the contents appearing therein

can still be used against the assessee as the factum of theft does not affect the

evidentiary value of the document and the details appearing therein. The

Assessing Officer further observed that despite repeated requests from the

department to help him getting the true and fair details, the assessee

categorically denied signing the consent waiver form which would have enabled

the department to get the account details from HSBC Bank, Geneva. No

prejudice would have been caused to the assessee had he signed the consent

waiver form especially when he has been telling that the account is not his.

Rather he would have helped the Government of India in its efforts to bring

back the money lying in foreign bank accounts about which the Government has

not been informed of. The submission of the assessee that his name is

accidently appearing in the document was rejected by the Assessing Officer

since the nature of details available in the document are personal and the same

are corroborated with the appearance of the details of his father, mother and

wife. Moreover, the assessee has not taken any action against any entity/agency

for using his particulars without his permission. Even he has not bothered to

contact the bank to know under what circumstances his details are appearing in

the accounts. The Assessing Officer observed that the three accounts to which

he has been related as attorney and beneficial owner has the following

maximum amounts appearing therein which is as under :- ITA No.5499/Del/2017 7. Since these account profiles are linked to his name and it is outside India

and the assessee has not been able to give any satisfactory explanation relating

to the true affairs of these accounts, he proposed to treat these linked profiles as

that of the assessee. 8. He, therefore, again asked the assessee to show-cause as to why the above

amounts appearing in the bank accounts/linked profiles shall not be added to his

income for the assessment year 2006-07. The assessee filed his reply dated

27.02.2015 strongly refuting the allegation of the Assessing Officer which is

appearing at para 15 of the assessment order. However, the Assessing Officer

was not satisfied with the explanation given by the assessee by recording the

following reasons :- 9. The Assessing Officer accordingly made an addition of Rs.1,20,37,863/-

to the total income of the assessee which appears in the bank account/linked

profile u/s 69 of the I.T. Act. The Assessing Officer further made addition of

Rs.1,23,130/- being income on account of undisclosed interest earned on such

undisclosed foreign bank account deposits u/s 69 of the I.T. Act. 10. Before the ld. CIT(A), the assessee made elaborate submission. Apart

from challenging the addition made on merit, the assessee challenged the

validity of the assessment proceedings undertaken u/s 153A of the I.T. Act on

the ground that no incriminating materials were found during the course of

search and the same is also barred by limitation. ITA No.5499/Del/2017 11. So far as the grievance of the assessee that the order passed by the

Assessing Officer is barred by the limitation is concerned, the ld. CIT(A)

rejected the same by holding as under :- 12. Ld. CIT(A) however deleted the interest on such foreign bank account for

which the Revenue is not in appeal and therefore we are not concerned with the

same. 13. So far as the validity of the assessment completed u/s 153A in absence of

any incriminating material found during the course of search is concerned, ld.

CIT(A) also rejected the said ground by observing as under :- 14. Aggrieved with such order of the ld. CIT(A), the assessee is in appeal

before the Tribunal by raising the following grounds :- 3. That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law the impugned
 order passed by the CIT(A) is contrary to law in as much as the addition u/s 69A has
 been made in the absence of any incriminating document unearthed during the course
 of search. 3.1 That on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law the CIT(A) erred
 by not following the proposition of law laid down the jurisdictional High Court in the
 case of CIT Vs. Kabul Chawla 380 ITR 573 (Delhi). 4. That the impugned order passed by the CIT(A) is non-speaking, laconic,
 cryptic and devoid of cogent reasoning. 4.1 That on the facts and circumstances of the case ad in law the CIT(A) erred in
 not following the proposition laid down by the Hon'ble ITAT in the case of Bishwanath Goradia Vs. DCIT 78 taxmann.com 81 ( Kol) and Shyam Sunder Jindal
 Vs. ACIT (Del ). 4.2 That the impugned order passed by the CIT(A) is vitiated as it does not
 address the arguments raised by the Appellant in the preceding ground of appeal. 5. The Appellant craves leaves to add, alter, amend, withdraw or substitute the
 grounds of appeal before or at the time of hearing." 15. The ld. counsel for the assessee strongly challenged the order of the ld.

CIT(A) in sustaining the addition made by the Assessing Officer in absence of

any incriminating material found during the course of search. Referring to the

provisions of section 153A of the I.T. Act, he submitted that making of an

addition in an assessment under section 153A of the Act, without the backing of

any incriminating material found during the course of search is unsustainable

even in a case where the original assessment on the date of search stood

completed by absence of issue of intimation under section 143(1) of the Act or

by not issuing notice u/s.143(2) of the Act within the time limit laid down in the

proviso to Sec.143(2) of the Act. For the above proposition, he relied on the

following decisions :- ITA No.5499/Del/2017 16. In his alternate contention, the ld. counsel for the assessee submitted that

the said document/evidence was not signed by any authority and did not

demonstrate in any manner that the same was a photocopy of bank statement. It

was also not on the letter head of any bank. Neither it was stamped by any bank

nor it bore the signature of any official of any bank. Therefore, it is not clear as

to how and in what manner the said document was considered as the bank

statement of HSBC Bank, Geneva, particularly when there was no indication as

to the branch and country to which the alleged bank statement related. He

submitted that although the Assessing Officer in the present case stated that the

documents had been obtained under DTAA but nowhere it was mentioned that

under which DTAA those documents had been obtained. If the aforesaid

documents had been received under DTAA' nothing is brought on record to

substantiate that any letter was issued by the competent authority of the relevant

country from which the aforesaid documents were obtained. The assessee had

also asked for the same but nothing was provided to the assessee. Therefore, in

the absence of all the relevant documents/evidences on record, it is not possible

to come to a just conclusion relating to the authenticity of the document relied

by the AO or to the facts as to whether these documents pertained to the

assessee. ITA No.5499/Del/2017 17. He submitted that the documents relied on by the AO are inadmissible

evidence as the documents were photocopies which were not duly authenticated.

The documents relied on by the AO are the copies which did not have any

signature of bank official or name of the bank or the place or the country were

the branch was situated. For the above proposition, he relied on the decision of

the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Shyam Sunder Jindal Vs. ACIT reported in 81 Taxmann.com 123 (Del). 18. In his 3rd alternate contention, the ld. counsel for the assessee submitted

that a perusal of the 7 pages received under DTAA confirms that none of the

client profile reflecting outstanding bank balance is in the name of Parag

Dalmia or his family members. The outstanding bank balance is only shown in

the name of Asprey Worldwide SA, Rondeberg Ltd. and Taira Foundation. In

view of the same, no addition can be made in the hands of an individual who is

neither an owner nor a beneficiary nor a beneficial owner of such bank account. 19. He submitted that even assuming but not admitting that such HSBC

account did exist in the name of aforesaid entities, the same cannot be taxed in

the hands of an individual namely Mr. Parag Dalmia in his capacity as Attorney

holder. Even if the allegation that the name of Mr. Parag Dalmia existed in the

bank account of aforesaid entities is believed as true, inspite of the same no tax

liability can be fastened in the hands of an individual as he is neither the owner

of such bank account nor beneficial owner. He submitted that the term

"beneficial owner" (inserted w.e.f. 1.4.2016 by Finance Act 2015) is defined in 16 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 explanation 4 to section 139(1) , according to which beneficial owner in respect

of an asset is an individual who has provided, directly or indirectly,

consideration for the asset for the immediate or future benefit, direct or indirect,

of himself or any other person. In the present case there is no allegation and

evidence that the amount lying in bank accounts of aforesaid entities were

provided by Mr. Parag Dalmia. 20. The ld. counsel for the assessee drew the attention of the Bench to

explanation 5 to section 139 (1) , as per which "beneficiary" (inserted w.e.f.

1.4.2016 by Finance Act 2015) in respect of an asset means an individual who

derives benefit from the asset during previous year and the consideration for

such asset has been provided by any person other than such beneficiary. He

submitted that Sh. Parag Dalmia has not derived any benefit from the bank

account of the aforesaid entities during A.Y. 2006-07. There is no evidence on

record to this effect. Additionally, there is no document/ evidence on record for

alleging that Mr. Parag Dalmia was beneficiary in the assets (i.e. HSBC

Account) of the aforesaid entities. 21. In his further alternate contention, ld. counsel for the assessee submitted

that the surrendered income must be correlated with some incriminating

material found during the search so as to justify the addition. As admittedly no

incriminating material was found during the course of search showing the

involvement of the assessee in the HSBC account for which the concession was 17 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 made or obtained vide letter dated 09.02.2012, the addition cannot be sustained.

For the above proposition, he relied on the following decisions :- 22. Referring to the decision of the Kolkata Bench of the Tribunal in the case

of Bishwanath Garodia vs. DCIT reported in 76 taxmann.com 81, he submitted

that under identical facts and circumstances, the Tribunal has deleted the

addition made by the Assessing Officer and sustained by the ld. CIT(A). Referring to the decision of the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Shyam Sundar Jindal vs. ACIT reported in (2017) 81 taxmann.com 123, he

submitted that under identical circumstances, the Tribunal has restored the issue

to the file of the Assessing Officer. He accordingly submitted that the order of

the CIT(A) be set-aside and the grounds raised by the assessee be allowed. 23. The ld. DR on the other hand strongly supported the order of the CIT(A).

He submitted that the original return filed on 30.10.2006 was processed u/s

143(1) . The Government of India then received information regarding

undisclosed foreign bank accounts of the assessee from another sovereign

nation under relevant international arrangements/treaties the information of

which is placed from page 3 to page 9 of the assessment order. He submitted

that during the course of search, the assessee's statement was recorded u/s 18 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 132(4) and he was also shown the information regarding his undisclosed foreign

bank accounts received (supra). The period of visits to Switzerland furnished

by assessee coincided with the period of opening the aforesaid bank accounts as

per the details given by the Assessing Officer at page 17 and 25/26 of the

assessment order. 24. He submitted that on 9.2.2012, i.e. 20 days after the search date, the

assessee filed one letter in which he agreed to pay tax and interest on the

corresponding income. However, after about 9 ½ months the assessee retracted

the surrender of corresponding undisclosed income for 3 reasons which the

Assessing Officer has reproduced in the assessment order. 25. He submitted that the statement recorded during search and voluntarily

declaration of undisclosed income in post search enquiries constitute evidence

found during the search. For the above proposition, he relied on the decision of

the Apex Court in the case of Mukundray K. Shah reported in 290 ITR 433,

wherein it has held that even if addition arises out of enquiry related to source of

investment in disclosed investment, if details of such disclosed investment were

found during search, addition has to be sustained. He submitted that at that time

simultaneous proceedings u/s 148 /regular assessment and Block Assessment

proceedings were not possible. 26. The ld. DR submitted that limitation to issue notice u/s 148 was available

in this case till 31.03.2013. However, proceedings u/s 153A were pending on

that date. Referring to the decision of the Co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in 19 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 ITA No.2675 & 2676/Del/2010, order dated 8-8-2013, he submitted that the

Tribunal at para 9 has held that during the pendency of proceedings u/s 153A of

the Act, the Assessing Officer is not empowered to issue notice u/s 147 / 148 of

the Act". Therefore, the Tribunal answered the following question of law in the

negative and held that addition for such escapement of income is to be made in

order u/s 153A / 153C proceeding only. 27. Referring to the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Rajat Shubhra

Chatterjee, reported in 47 CCH 0135, order dated 20.05.2016, he submitted that

the Tribunal quashed the proceedings u/s 148 on the ground that for any

evidence which is found/related to search, addition can be made only u/s

153A / 153C . The ld. DR submitted that in this back ground for holding that the

above addition could not have been made u/s 153A , the Tribunal may have to

refer the matter to a Special Bench. He submitted that the decisions of Hon'ble

Delhi High Court in the cases of Anil Kumar Bhatia, reported in 211 Taxman

453(Del) and Filatex India Ltd , reported in 229 Taxmann 555(Del) also support

the stand of the Revenue that this addition is to be made u/s 153A . He

submitted that the decision in the case of Kabul Chawla, reported in 380 ITR

573 does not apply in the present case as in the case of Kabul Chawla, the 20 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 addition made had no connection with any material, evidence or statement

found/recorded, letter filed during search or post search enquiries. 28. So far as merits of the case is concerned, he submitted that the

information was received from a sovereign government. Though, the strict tests

of Evidence Act do not apply to assessment proceedings, even in Evidence Act ,

documents /evidence received from foreign governments the acceptance of such

evidence are different from evidence received from domestic/private sources.

The issue of cross examination in case of information received from another

government does not arise, more so in assessment proceedings where the

principle is "Preponderance of Probabilities" and not "Beyond reasonable

doubt". The presence of assessee in the city/country during the period when the

accounts were opened, specific personal details of assessee in those documents,

assessee's name figuring in a long list of account holders of different countries,

information initially leaked by a whistleblower employee of the bank, bank

publicly apologizing for data leak of its customers, information being shared

with India by a sovereign government and initial surrender of the corresponding

undisclosed income by the assessee satisfactorily meet rather exceed the

standards of test of "Preponderance of Probabilities". 29. The ld. DR submitted that para 11 of assessment order refers to certain

closed accounts for which reference was made to Swiss Authorities. The

corresponding additions have not been made in the assessment order.

Therefore, the said communication to Swiss Authorities is not relevant in this 21 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 appeal. As regards additions made, the basis is the principle of "Preponderance

of Probabilities". He submitted that exchange of information between

Sovereign Nations is governed by treaty provisions and not as per the standards

and procedure laid down by domestic law. For the above proposition, he relied

on the decision of Ahmedabad Bench of the Tribunal in ITA No 3451/Ahd/2014

order dated 30.11.2017 in the case of Mayurbhai Mangaldas Patel. For

information received from Foreign Governments, the corresponding standard

operating procedures apply and not the standard operating procedures applicable

to receipt and verification of documents/ information from domestic sources. He submitted that the decision in the cases of Bishwanath Garodia (supra) and Shyam Sunder Jindal (supra) relied upon by the assessee cannot be

followed. He also relied on the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case

of Mumbai Kamgar Sabha vs Faizullbhai AIR 1976 SC 1455. 30. We have heard the rival arguments made by both the sides, perused the

orders of the Assessing Officer as well as the ld. CIT(A) and the Paper Book

filed on behalf of the assessee. We have also considered the various decisions

cited before us. We find in the instant case information was received by Govt.

of India under DTAA/DTAC between India and other countries that certain

persons in India held bank accounts in HSBC Private Bank (Suisse), SA,

Switzerland which contained the name of the assessee. A search u/s 132 was

conducted in the premises of the assessee on 20.01.2012 during which the

statement of the assessee was recorded u/s 132(4) of the I.T. Act. He was also 22 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 asked to give the details of his foreign bank accounts to which the assessee had

categorically denied to have known or maintained any such foreign bank

account. We find the Assessing Officer, during the course of assessment

proceedings, confronted the information received in the form of 7 page

documents to which the assessee had also denied to have any knowledge about

the existence of such bank account. It is pertinent to mention here that the

assessee vide letter dated 09.02.2012 addressed to the DDIT (Inv.) New Delhi

had clarified that neither he created any such entity nor is aware of one existing

on that date as mentioned in the 7 pages which were confronted to him. He,

however, had stated that in order to buy peace and avoid litigation with the

revenue authorities is willing to pay income-tax and interest due thereon for the

relevant year provided no penal action and/or prosecution action is undertaken

and is kept confidence. The Assessing Officer noted that despite such

undertaking given by the assessee before the DDIT (Inv.) no such amount was

offered to tax in the return filed in communication to notice u/s 153A on the

ground that the assessee did not receive any reasons from the department to his

request and the information was leaked to a TV channel. Since the information

in the form of document has been collected by the Government of India from

credible sources wherein name of the assessee appeared containing his date of

birth, address and other details such as name of father, wife, mother, etc. and

since the details of visit to Switzerland coincided with the details of

creation/operation of the bank accounts and despite being requested to sign the 23 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 consent waiver form, the assessee did not sign the same, the Assessing Officer

rejected the explanation given by the assessee and made addition of

Rs.1,20,37,863/- to the total income of the assessee being the deposit in TAIRA

FOUNDATION, RONDEBERG LIMITED and ASPREY WORLWIDE SA,

the details of which are given at para 6 of this order. The Assessing Officer

further made addition of Rs.1,23,130/- being income on account of undisclosed

income earned for such undisclosed foreign bank account deposits u/s 69 of the

I.T. Act. 31. We find the ld. CIT(A) deleted the addition of Rs.1,23,130/- being the

interest on account of undisclosed interest earned on such deposits for which the

revenue is not in appeal and therefore we are not concerned with the same. He,

however, dismissed the ground raised by the assessee challenging the validity of

the assessment proceedings u/s 153A and sustained the addition made by the

Assessing Officer amounting to Rs.1,20,37,863/-. 32. It is the submission of the ld. counsel for the assessee that in absence of

any incriminating material found during the course of search, no addition can be

made. It is also the submission of the ld. counsel for the assessee that the

documents relied on by the Assessing Officer are inadmissible since these

documents are not signed by any authority and these are merely photocopies

which were not duly authenticated. Further, it is the submission of the ld.

counsel for the assessee that none of the client profile reflecting outstanding

bank balance is in the name of the assessee i.e. Parag Dalmia or his family 24 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 members and, therefore, addition, if any, can be made in the hands of those

entities and not in the hands of the assessee. 33. It is the submission of the ld. DR that the assessee was shown the

information received by the Government of India regarding the undisclosed

foreign bank account during the course of search and his statement was

recorded u/s 132(4) of the I.T. Act. The assessee vide his letter dated

09.02.2012 i.e. 20 days after the search had filed a letter before the DDIT (Inv.)

agreeing to pay the tax and interest due thereon. The declaration of the assessee

voluntarily on such undisclosed income in post-search enquiries and the

statement recorded during the course of search constitute incriminating evidence

found during the course of search. It is also the submission of the ld. DR that

since a search has taken place u/s 132 during which the assessee was confronted

with those 7 pages documents, therefore, the Assessing Officer could not have

issued notice u/s 148 on the basis of the 7 pages received from a sovereign

country containing the name of the assessee of having Swiss bank accounts

which were confronted to him during the course of search. It is also the

submission of the ld. DR since the assessee denied to have signed the consent

waiver form as required by the Assessing Officer during the course of

assessment proceedings and since his travel to Switzerland coincides with the

creation of the documents/operation of the bank accounts, therefore, it is clear

that the accounts maintained with the Suisse Bank belong to the assessee and, 25 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 therefore, the addition made by the Assessing Officer and sustained by the ld.

CIT(A) are justified. 34. So far as the argument of the ld. counsel for the assessee that in absence

of any incriminating material found during the course of search, the proceedings

u/s 153A has to be held as null and void is not applicable to the facts of the

present case. The various decisions relied on by the ld. counsel for the assessee

in our opinion are not applicable to the facts of the present case and are

distinguishable. Since in the instant case the documents in the shape of 7 pages

received by the Government of India from a sovereign country containing

information regarding the undisclosed foreign accounts were received prior to

the search and was confronted to the assessee during the course of search,

therefore, the same, in our opinion, constitutes incriminating material which has

rightly been used by the Assessing Officer in the proceedings u/s 153A / 143(3) of the I.T. Act. Further, since the proceedings u/s 153A was pending, the

Assessing Officer is not empowered to issue notice u/s 148 of the I.T. Act in

respect of income which comes to his knowledge from a source other than the

evidence found during the course of search and continued the said proceedings

simultaneously with proceedings u/s 153A / 153C as held by the Tribunal in the

case of ACIT vs. Vipul Motors Pvt. Ltd. vide ITA No.2675 & 2676/Del/2010

order dated 08.08.2013 and in the case of Rajat Subham Chatterjee vs. ACIT

vide ITA No.2430/Del/2015, order dated 20.05.2016. Such type of argument 26 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 was never taken in the case of Bishwanath Garodia (supra) and Shyam Sunder

Jindal (supra). 35. Now, coming to the merits of the case is concerned, we find the

Assessing Officer at para 11 of the order as observed as under :- 36. This shows that the verificatory letters from the competent authorities in

Switzerland was yet to be received before completion of the assessment. Before

ld. CIT(A) was also, the same was not available. Even before us nothing was

brought to our notice regarding the verificatory letters received from

Switzerland. Since assessee in the instant case was denying from the beginning

that the accounts does not belong to him and since verificatory report in respect

of above is yet to be received, and since in absence of such verificatory letter, it

cannot be conclusively proved that the accounts in fact do belong to the

assessee, therefore, considering the totality of the facts and in the interest of

justice, we restore this issue to the file of the Assessing Officer with a direction

to adjudicate the issue afresh and in accordance with law after obtaining the

verificatory report. The Assessing Officer shall decide the issue as per fact and 27 ITA No.5499/Del/2017 law after giving due opportunity of being heard to the assessee. We hold and

direct accordingly. The grounds raised by the assessee are partly allowed for

statistical purposes. 37. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is partly allowed for

statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open Court on this 26th day of February, 2018.