Online travel agency Travelocity India has filed an FIR against Amit Taneja, former MD of Desiya and Stuart Crighton, CEO, Cleartrip for alleged criminal breach of trust, data theft, cheating, criminal misappropriation and criminal conspiracy. Himanshu Singh, MD, Travelocity India confirmed to Medianama that they have registered a complaint with the Civil Lines Police Station in Gurgoan. Desiya became a subsidiary of Travelocity following the acquisition of Travelguru in August 2009 .

A copy of the FIR in our possession reads that Taneja had allegedly passed on the company’s intellectual property, trade secrets, sensitive data, proprietary technology source codes, their entire hotel business model and projections to Crighton including an excel file named ‘Hotels Growth Model.xls’. It further states that Taneja was terminated from Desiya on 19th September 2009.

It is also alleged that Sanjeet Singh, Regional Manager (North) and Imran Ansari, Travel Consultant, allegedly close associates of Taneja, are accused of criminal breach of trust, misrepresentation and cheating. Singh declined to confirm nor deny these accusations , and also declined to comment on when and how the leak was detected. He also declined to comment on any such specific details on the data shared between Taneja and Crighton.

According to the document, Travelocity has estimated a 15 percent loss in market share which translates to Rs 200 million, over the next year, due to the leak. Singh refrained from commenting on this estimate but agreed that all facts on the FIR are accusations they have made and the matter is under investigation by the police. The police have ceased computers and Blackberries  and are questioning the accused.

On attempting to contact Crighton, a spokesperson from Cleartrip emailed us the following statement: “We are aware that an FIR has been registered in a Gurgaon Police Station.  We are convinced that the said FIR is misconceived, baseless and likely filed with ulterior motives. We have full faith in the judiciary and are extending all cooperation to the relevant agencies.” Taneja’s phone was switched off.

Related: — Indian Online Hotel Site TravelGuru Acquired By Travelocity

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event