Link to the tweet is provided here .

Sagarika Ghose , a Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament from the Trinamool Congress (TMC), said on X that the Maharashtra Cyber Police has sent a takedown notice to X , seeking the removal of her account and a post, along with others. Sharing the notice on X, she raised free speech concerns , writing: “Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution is not optional.”

Dear Maharashtra Cyber Department @MahaCyber1 . You have sent a take down notice to X on one of my tweets . When lawful speech is targeted for removal, it raises serious questions about the health of our democracy. Please note : Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution is not… pic.twitter.com/arwPEDMFBJ

What the police have alleged

The Maharashtra Cyber Police allege that the accused used derogatory and defamatory language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and circulated fabricated AI-generated audio and video . The notice claims that the content was intended to mislead, provoke, and incite the public, disrupt public order, and create hatred and ill will against a constitutional office holder.

FIR charges

What did the post actually contain?

Archived link to the tweet here .

Sagarika Ghose alleged that a “high profile minister” in Narendra Modi’s government exchanged “pally-pally emails” with Jeffrey Epstein and referred to claims of an Indian aiding a murder plot on US soil. She also called it the “worst, most immoral government” and criticised its reliance on “misinformation” and “religious violence”. She did not share any image or video s.

A high profile minister in the @narendramodi government exchanges pally-pally emails with convicted girl child rapist #JeffreyEpstein . Now an Indian admits he worked with a Modi government employee to murder on American soil. @narendramodi himself is prostrate before…

Recent MeitY crackdown on X posts and accounts: In March, users first reported individual posts being withheld under Section 69A orders from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) . The ministry later escalated to blocking entire accounts . No reasons were provided for the blocking of posts, with X notifying users via email but stating that it is “unable to provide additional information due to legal restrictions.”

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event