Heard Sri Rajneesh Sharma, learned counsel for the applicant, learned A.G.A. for the State and perused the material on record. The present bail application has been filed on behalf of applicant Kavendra under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with a prayer to release him on bail in Case Crime No. 457 of 2023 for offence punishable under Sections 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 & 120B of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66(D) of I.T. Act, registered at Police Station Majhola, District Moradabad, during pendency of the trial, after rejecting the bail application of the applicant by Additional Sessions Judge, Moradabad, vide order dated 29.05.2024. Learned counsel for the applicant submits that the applicant is innocent and has falsely implicated in the present case with ulterior motive. It is further submitted that the first information report dated 27.06.2023 has been lodged against the applicant and five other named persons alleging that some boys and girls for the last several times committed fraud to the people by bluffing fake online loan at the floor of Raj Faison shop Putligarh Tiraha, the police raided there and arrested two girls namely Noorie Parveen and Sangeeta and also recovered 11 mobile, two mobile charger, one laptop with mouse, eight register note book, one e-stamp, 11 loan approval letter, fifty five list of customers name and mobile numbers and other papers. No incriminating article has been recovered from the possession of the applicant. The alleged recovery of as shown in the F.I.R. has been made from the possession of the applicant without complying the mandatory provision of Section 100 of Cr.P.C. There is no independent/public witness of the alleged recovery and the alleged recovery is not made under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act. It is further submitted that co-accused Yogesh Tomar has been granted bail by a Coordinate Bench of this Court in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 49517 of 2023 vide order dated 10.1.2024. He has next argued that the applicant has criminal history of two other cases. The applicant is languishing in jail since 12.05.2024. Learned counsel for the applicant has relied upon the judgments of Apex Court in Ash Mohammad Vs. Shiv Raj Singh @ Lalla Babu and another , (2012) 9 SCC 446 and Prabhakar Tiwari Vs. State of U.P. and another, (2020) 11 SCC 648 wherein the Apex Court has observed that pendency of other criminal cases against the accused may itself cannot be a basis for refusal of bail. Per contra, learned A.G.A. has opposed the prayer for bail of the applicant by contending that the innocence of the applicant cannot be adjudged at pre trial stage, therefore, he does not deserve any indulgence. In case the applicant is released on bail, he will again indulge in similar activities and will misuse the liberty of bail. It is well settled position of law that bail is the rule and committal to jail is an exception and refusal of bail is a restriction on the personal liberty of the individual guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution [Vide State of Rajasthan vs. Balchand @ Baliay ( 1977) 4 SCC 308, Gudikanti Narasimhulu And Ors Vs. Public Prosecutor, High Court Of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1978 SC 429 and Satender Kumar Antil Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Another , (2021) 10 SCC 773]. No material or circumstances has been brought to the notice of this Court with regard to tampering of evidence or intimidating of witnesses in previous criminal history. Keeping in mind, larger mandate of Article 21 of the constitution of India, the nature of accusations, the nature of evidence in support thereof, the severity of punishment which conviction will entail, the character of the accused-applicant, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with, the larger interest of the public/ State and other circumstances, but without expressing any opinion on the merits, I am of the view that it is a fit case for grant of bail. Hence, present bail application is allowed. Let the applicant Kavendra be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on his furnishing a personal bond and two reliable sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned subject to the following conditions :- In case of breach of any of the above conditions, it shall be a ground for cancellation of bail. If in the opinion of the trial court that absence of the applicant is deliberate or without sufficient cause, then it shall be open for the trial court to treat such default as abuse of liberty of bail and proceed in accordance with law. The trial court may make all possible efforts/endeavour and try to conclude the trial expeditiously in accordance with law after the release of the applicant, if there is no other legal impediment. It is made clear that the observations made in this order are limited to the purpose of determination of this bail application and will in no way be construed as an expression on the merits of the case. The trial court shall be absolutely free to arrive at its independent conclusions on the basis of evidence led unaffected by anything said in this order. The party shall file computer generated copy of such order downloaded from the official website of High Court Allahabad, self attested by the applicant alongwith a self attested identity proof of the said person (preferably Aadhar Card) mentioning the mobile number to which the said Aadhar Card is linked. The concerned Court/Authority/Official shall verify the authenticity of such computerized copy of the order from the official website of High Court Allahabad and shall make a declaration of such verification in writing. Order Date :- 24.6.2024
 
A.P. Pandey