The Reserve Bank of India has made a series of announcements ranging from banking regulations to fintech innovation to Payment System Operators. Here are the latest updates from the Central Bank:

The RBI has announced its Fifth Cohort under its Regulatory Sandbox Framework. Previous cohorts under the regulatory sandbox covered specific themes such as prevention and mitigation of financial frauds, retail payments, cross-border payments and MSME (Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises) lending. This time however, the RBI has chosen a “neutral theme” and wants to broadly collect evidence on the benefits and risks of new financial innovations.

The RBI selected five entities from from 22 applications to enter the test phase, in this cohort. The entities are:

Connectingdot Consultancy Private Limited: It predicts loan defaults by segregating loan portfolios into high, medium, and low-risk categories. It also aims to provide reasons for borrower’s defaults and recommendations for risk mitigation to banks/lenders.

Epifi Technologies Private Limited: It allows opening of Non-Resident (External) Account and Non-Resident (Ordinary) Account through video KYC and identity validations, completely virtually.

Finagg Technologies Private Limited: It is a blockchain-based financing solution for MSMEs. It allows the conversion of receivables from large enterprises, known as anchors, into blockchain-based tokens. MSMEs can redeem these tokens to avail credit from banks or Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs).

Indian Banks’ Digital Infrastructure Company (IBDIC) Private Limited: It is a blockchain and smart contract based entity, that provides financing to MSMEs that are a part of the supply chain of a creditworthy anchor. The platform tokenises the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) invoice which is accepted by the anchor. The platform then transfers the token to the seller from the buyer in lieu of payment. Lenders can fund the supplier against these tokens digitally on this platform.

Signzy Technologies Private Limited: It allows unassisted video KYC for customers

The RBI has imposed monetary penalties on Manappuram Finance Limited and Ola Financial Services for non-compliance with KYC Directions and Visa Worldwide Pte. Limited for non-compliance in additional factor authentication regulations. Further, the RBI fined Ola Financial Services for failing to comply with regulations for Prepaid Payment Instruments.

The RBI gave Manappuram Finance Limited and Ola Financial Services Pvt. Ltd the opportunity to show cause to deter imposition of penalty. However, the RBI reviewed their submissions and concluded that a penalty was warranted. It fined Manappuram Finance Rs. 41.5 lakh.

Visa Worldwide Pte. Limited had implemented a payment authentication solution without regulatory clearance from RBI. Visa filed an application for compounding of the violation i.e. pled guilty and sought redressal. The RBI approved its application and subsequently imposed a penalty of Rs. 240.75 lakh.

Similarly, Ola also filed an application for compounding of its violation after it reported shortfalls in the balance in its escrow account. The RBI approved this and imposed a penalty of Rs. 33.40 lakh for failing to comply with KYC compliances and Rs. 54.15 lakh for failing to report shortfalls in its balance.

The RBI has released new draft guidelines mandating banks to set aside a higher number of liquid assets against their deposits which have enabled Internet and mobile banking and the Unified Payments Interface (UPI).

The guidelines on ‘Liquidity Cover Ratio’ call for banks to improve their “liquidity resilience” (their ability to manage liquidity) in the event of unforeseen market disruptions. The Central Bank stated that this was a proactive measure to mitigate risks caused by the instantaneous transfer and withdrawals. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had previously called for a review of the Liquidity Cover Ratio , following run-ins on banks in other jurisdictions, in his Bi-Monthly policy statement in April 2024. This was likely a reference to the run on the Silicon Valley Bank , the US Bank that regulators shut down following simultaneous cash withdrawals from customers. Similarly, the RBI had to cap deposit withdrawals to Rs. 50,000 per person during the YES Bank crisis to prevent a bank run.

The RBI has ordered banks to assign an additional 5% run-off factor for retail deposits and a 10% run-off factor for stable retail deposits and unsecured wholesale funding provided by non-financial small business customers. Similarly, less stable deposits must have a higher run-off factor of 15%.

The Central Bank has also provided guidelines for High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA), which are safe assets that banks must set aside in case of emergencies. The Bank said that the Level 1 HQLA in the form of Government securities must not be valued at an amount lower than their current market value.

The rules do not apply to Payments Banks, Regional Rural Banks, and Local Area Banks. It has invited comments from banks and other stakeholders by August 31, 2024. The rules will be imposed from April 1, 2025.

Also Read

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event