SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: A copied essay
DATE: 2017-08-04
SCORE: 5
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6rkosf/a_copied_essay/

--- POST TEXT ---

If Moses would have been an upper-caste Hindu he would have had just one commandment.

Thou shall not eat cow.

Gone are the days when one would learn writing essay with - A cow has four legs. We need to emphasise more than just on the legs of the cow. Cow is now an icon. And how? It is the future national animal. I just hope it does not replace Ashok Chakra. 

A few months back a compatriot in Munich even called me a monster for my diet while he munched mango pickle and bread, being morally bound to protection of "the" cow. He verbally thrashed my present life, my karma and my future birth because for 5 years he survived in Germany on bread and homemade mango pickle and here I was munching away beef. "Aap agle janam mein rakshash banoge" - I was cursed. So I asked him if he can do a critical comparison between cowboys in Texas and gaurakshaks in Rajasthan? He was floored.

A video shows that a cow and a bull were standing side by side and as a motorcyclist rides past the divine couple, the bull plunges into him. A divine justice. How long can the cow take the humiliation? She must have told him, "That's the milkman, the pervert". And then someone in Uttarakhad has been arrested for having sex with a cow. In a sexually repressed country where sexual offences are quite regular, the sexual sanctity of cows might be in jeopardy. Soon cows will get Aadhar card. The Russians sent a dog to space. We will send a cow there. Science and cow is now inseparable. Now chemists are finding gold in cow urine. It is not far when our scientists will find Uranium in Cow urine. Since now we also know that cow urine is the next greatest blessing to biological science since the discovery of human genome, it can be "safely" said that cow will effect our diet one or the other way. Before it used to be on our plates. Now it may come in bottle and can. Can you imagine how much late Morarjiji would be proud of us? We cannot though have the elixir from sexually molested divinity. Cow protection is very much needed. It is because of cows and pigs that our ancestors fought with the East India Company in 1857. They wanted bullets. They got sausage. This started the Sepoy Mutiny. 

But then I keep coming back to the essay. I wonder if now children anymore like to write essays on cow. How risky it might be to write such essays? Can a person be arrested for sedition for writing an essay on cow? Would it be safer to write essay on peacock instead of the controversial cow? Or would it offend the peacock and make him cry? Such profound questions lurk in my mind. As India boldly advances towards superpowerhood such questions do look trivial to some but then I am more interested in the superstitions in the superpower and in the precarious position of the divine bovine.