SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: SCAM I was about to fall into.Assignment submission link for internship leads to OTP from so called "trading" site. Full story and pics given.
DATE: 2025-01-07
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1hv7ixp/scam_i_was_about_to_fall_intoassignment/

--- POST TEXT ---

Ok, so i'm an engineering student and at this point desperately looking for internships, so in search of that i applied to quite a few companies in linkedIn , internshala and other sites,

One of them was this one in internhsala , Subspace, and after a week or so i got an assignment link form them, which was pretty normal till now cause i got quite a few of them. And when i researched about them the company and everything seemed legit to me, like they got fiunding from IITs and many legit places with pictures and all.

But this comapany was a bit peculier from the very begining, they were very active in chat from the first place, wayy more than others, which was quite unusual. And then kept me sending the link to their site for any doubts which was unsual at first but i ignored.

But there were two things in common, every msg they sent had some kind of a link , and when u go to that site, it asked for my phone number.

At first I ignored but it became fishy when i heard the thing called "no rejection policy" , i.e. everyone that submits assignment in time gets selected, now what does that even mean ???

Then today I finally got another link saying assignment submission link , so i went to the site , same , they asked for phone number ,but this time, i gave it , I gave my phone number and then it asked for a OTP,

I got a SMS on my phone, and to my shock, when I saw the msg, i saw that, it was from "Probo", a fantasy gaming / trading / opinion trade / betting / bullshit app. I got OTP to sign up for Probo. For a second I was shocked to see it, i literally went through all 5 stage of greif when i saw that and knew that instance it has to be a scam, and couldnt believe that a company that seem so legit everyway, like trust me every single theing about them seemed to be a legit company, can be something like this. Then i checked the other links too, exact same thing phone numbe to otp from probo, all they were doing was this from day 1.

I researched again about the company and istg, everything seemed so fking legit.

the comapny is even funded by IIT Mdaras and other places , the founder is also from IIT Madras.

And then i had nothing more to do with it, so i just blocked them and now im here writing this. idk if I did right or im just stupid, but its just sad to see people trying to scam other like this, taking benifit of where so many people are desperate for even a single job or internship, even their post had over 1500 applications in a few days and I dont know to how many of them they did this to. i was honestly happy for a second that at least i got response form some place and now when it turns out to be this it just breakes my confidence. Theres this guy scaming people and idk doing what with the accounts and heres me again applying to companies hoping to land one job.

So to whoever it is behind doing this, from the bottom of my heart, FUCK YOU.