SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: ALERT!!! House rent scam
DATE: 2022-04-10
SCORE: 12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/u0cvf1/alert_house_rent_scam/

--- POST TEXT ---

**Beware* - Those putting ad for rent, please take a note for your own good* 

Got this from a friend and the incident happened just yesterday - 

1. I posted an ad online for renting out my flat. 

2. Someone called and he said that he is interested. He said he is in Defence, in Delhi right now. Getting transferred to Bangalore. Has family.

3. Agreed for rent amount immediately without a word. Did not ask any usual questions, at all.

4. Asked me to send pic of flat. I gave him link of my online ad. he said link is not opening (it was opening for me from multiple devices. I had checked it before sending to him). He kept calling a few times, I could not answer as I was in meetings.

5. He asked for pics to be sent, so that his family could see and agree. 

6. I sent pic through whatsapp. He agreed in 2 minutes, said his family liked the house.

7. He asked me to confirm immediately. he kept calling every hour. I said we can chat on whatsapp instead.

8. He had put full family pic in whatsapp DP. Husband, wife, 2 small kids.

9. I asked on chat - which department is he in Defence. In 2 seconds - he sent his all-ID proof – Aadhaar, Driver license, PAN Card, Army ID, Army Canteen ID. I had not even asked for any of those yet. He is a Captain in Army. 

10. I called him few hours later - he said he would shift at next month-start. He said, his office is in Domlur (between Domlur flyover and Ejipura - Army area). I said will it not be too far for him and his kids schools etc? He said - no, it’s ok as the flat is good. 

11. His voice, tone, speaking style etc did not sound like an Army officer or any officer as it would be normally. 

12. He asked some questions – how much rental-agreement document would cost, how much would be painting cost when he leaves etc.

13. He asked to reduce the deposit amount a bit. 

14. Further, he asked me again to confirm immediately. I said other people are interested as well, so I will confirm on weekend. He said he does not have that much time, as he has to start making arrangements – movers/packers etc immediately.

15. I said, I will confirm next day.

16. I had suspicion – many things were not appearing to be normal/usual. so I checked with a few people – some said all sounds ok and not to click on any link if he sends. Some said they have heard of cheating case – where the interested tenant would send deposit amount – by you having to scan QR code etc method and --- your money is gone!

17. As we have another almost-confirmed tenant, we declined this guy.

18. I checked online and, in some forums, as saw the following messages (pics attached)

19. There are also articles online – you can google “fraudster impersonating rent”