How can there be a distinction between messaging and over-the-top (OTT) platforms when it comes to spam regulation? the Chief Regulatory Officer for Bharti Airtel Rahul Vatts asked during the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India’s open house discussion reviewing India’s current spam regulation. “If you really are concerned about spam, you should be more than happy to say that, okay, I’m willingly wanting to agree with the TRAI,” he argued.

TRAI currently regulates spam through the Telecom Commercial Communications Customer Preference Regulations, 2018 (TCCPR). The regulator had put out a consultation paper that suggested changes to the ways in which TCCPR, 2018 currently defines transactional calls and messages. It also suggested proactive steps that telcos could take to curb spam, such as tracking users who make more calls/send more messages than prescribed limits.

Responding to this consultation paper, Airtel had urged the regulator to address OTT spam like WhatsApp and Telegram. It suggested that TRAI should implement specific guidelines for consent on calling and messaging platforms to ensure that businesses don’t send out messages to users without their consent. Similarly, other telecom companies have also argued that TRAI should impose spam regulations on OTTs. They stated that businesses were using these platforms to bypass traditional messaging restrictions such as the requirement to register message headers and templates with telcos through the Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) platform.

During the open house discussion, some mentioned that the government already regulates OTT platforms under the Information and Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act) and the rules (IT Rules) released under it. Responding to this, Vatts argued that the IT Rules do not address unsolicited commercial communication (UCC/spam). “There’s a broad definition agreed, but there is no specific word on unsolicited communication. That needs to be taken into the picture,” he explained.

Debashish Bhattacharya  Senior Deputy Director General of Broadband India Forum (BIF) mentioned that the IT Ministry has already advised OTTs on how they should curb spam on their platforms both in the form of calls and messages. “As long as the government is the same on top, it doesn’t matter if one Ministry is controlling one part of the network and another Ministry is controlling another part of the network,” he added.

Agreeing with Vatts, the Vice President of TRAI policy and operations at Vodafone Idea (Vi) Ajay Mehta empahsised that currently the regulator and the general public have limited visibility of the spam that occurs on OTT platforms. “Once the data is published on a common platform, once a public scrutiny happens, I think the TRAI and all stakeholders who are present here, will come to know, yes, there is a need to give guidance to the OTT sector,” he explained.

In the consultation paper, TRAI suggested that telcos should take proactive measures to detect spammers. One such measure should be to track users who make more calls/send more messages than a prescribed limit. The regulator also asked stakeholders what other measures it should implement for the proactive detection of spam messages and also rules or logic required for effective use of AI-based UCC detection systems.

Responding to this, UK Srivastava President Reliance Jio said that while Jio already deploys honeypots and is using AI-based solutions, the Department of Telecommunications and TRAI should also deploy honeypots. “We feel that this will be more effective. And further, once the delivery TMs [telemarketers] are licensed or registered, the UCC detection will happen at the source itself, obviating the need for deploying any additional measures for detection of UCC,” he added.

Vi, argued that there are already sufficient measures to curb spam on the telco end. “Something more that can come now has to come from principal entities and the telemarketers,” Mehta said. He specified that beyond a point technical solutions will not help curb spam. “Somebody will always try to find a bypass to that. There is a benefit to them for making spam. So therefore, the action also has to reach now the right stakeholder holder, which is principal entities, rather than only through technical systems,” Mehta explained.

Discussing measures to make spam reporting easier, Seema Jindal, Public Affairs Head for Truecaller, suggested that customers should be able to report spam anywhere and not just through telecom companies’ apps. “I think there’s no denying that there has to be collaboration between stakeholders whether those or telcos, non-telcos, or OTT platforms,” she mentioned, adding that the ecosystem has to explore what shape/form this collaboration would take.

Further, Jindal added that fraud is an extension of spam, and as such, platforms that see instances of fraud should communicate them with each other. “Confining that information to one ecosystem is not serving any purpose,” she said. Jindal explained that Truecaller believes that the regulator should explore integrations between telcos and third-party apps given that third-party apps already have a user-friendly interface.

“I think we can look at the opportunity of how we can use this ecosystem better and capture user feedback, because the more feedback we capture, the more visibility we get into as to how the fraudsters are evolving or how the scam is evolving, how the spam is, they are innovating and how we can address that better,” Jindal pointed out.

Srivastava from Jio emphasised that in the spam ecosystem telecom companies are mere intermediaries and the regulator should not penalise them for pushing information from one side of the pipe to another. “The IT Act is the guiding legal document on the role and responsibility of the intermediaries, and the same should be followed in telecom regulations, especially in TCCPR,” he added.

Airtel believes that financial disincentives are not a function of the TRAI under TRAI Act Section 11. For context, this section lists the functions of TRAI and since imposing financial disincentives on telcos isn’t under this section, doing so would be “exceeding TRAI’s jurisdiction” Vatts argued on behalf of the company. “Financial disincentives are applied today on the TSPs have actually failed to address the core issue at hand, mainly because the TSPs themselves are not spam-generating parties,” he mentioned.

To make user complaint redressal more effective, TRAI should hold businesses and their telemarketers accountable for spam, Vatts mentioned during the discussion. “A framework for penalising PEs [pricipal entities/businesses] and TMs [telemarketers] should be framed. Penalties should address recurring violations, focusing on deterrence and ensuring the entities involved in spam or misuse face consequences, proportionate to their actions,” he explained. Further, Vatts added that the Department of Consumer Affairs should work together with TRAI to establish robust enforcement mechanisms for coordinated efforts in addressing consumer grievances.

“Adopting that framework will really create a more balanced regulatory environment where penalties are applied to the correct stakeholders, fosters greater compliance, and reduces the overall unsolicited communications,” Vatts emphasised.

Both Airtel and Jio representatives expressed support for the Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) draft spam guidelines released by the authority in June this year . These guidelines identify what qualifies an entity as a spammer. The companies suggested that the DoCA and TRAI should finalise these guidelines early.

TCCPR 2018 has two separate definitions for transactional (like an OTP which customers get within 30 minutes of transactions) and service messages (communication based on an existing relationship with a user). The regulation distinguishes between the two based on whether or not a user has given explicit consent for the communication. In the consultation paper, TRAI explained that the definition of transactional message was very narrow, and the lack of clarity on what message falls within which category led to businesses sending promotional content through the service message template. As such, TRAI said that it was considering merging transactional and service message categories.

Vi supports this assessment stating that TRAI requires businesses to register their message headers and templates with telecom companies. As such, today both service and transactional messages from businesses come under the same header. The only separate treatment the two categories get is related to the price of the message. “If you merge them, it makes life simpler for everyone,” Mehta from Vi said.

He explained that one can argue that the merger of the two message categories would impact latency. This is because telcos need to deliver certain messages like OTPs quickly. “But that has nothing to with the message category. I can tomorrow very well do a, let’s say, OTP timeline for even a service message, for even a promotional message,” he added.

In its consultation paper, TRAI said that it is considering creating an opt-out mechanism for transactional communication. This includes messages related to OTPs, transaction confirmations, balance alerts, travel reminders, etc. Companies don’t typically ask people for consent to send such communication. Discussing the same, a representative of the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) said that customers typically self-initiate transactional communication. “So having an opt-out mechanism for transactional messages can oftentimes be detrimental to customers themselves. And in specific instances, even lock them out of services that they may already have purchased or paid for,” he said.

Note: The headline was edited for clarity based on editorial inputs on 13/12/2024 at 6:40 pm.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event