On Monday, the Madhya Pradesh High Court granted the Madhya Pradesh government three months to develop a law regulating online gambling in the state, reported LiveLaw . The matter is being considered by a committee of senior state-level secretaries. This time period will also be used to get the law cleared by the state assembly, submitted the Madhya Pradesh government.

The proceedings also saw the Indian government’s counsel inform the Court that gambling is a state subject , one that the Madhya Pradesh government is required to legislate on.

A single-Judge Bench comprising Justice Vivek Agarwal heard the submission during a bail hearing. The matter will be next heard on March 13, 2023.

Earlier this year, a 26-year-old man was charged for allegedly withdrawing Rs. 8.51 lakh from his maternal grandfather’s pension account to play “online satta of [the] IPL”. The man was penalised under provisions of the Indian Penal Code , namely Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing property), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using a forged document), and 34 (acts done by several persons to further a common intention). The Court granted him bail in July provided he deposits 50% of the withdrawn amount before the trial court within 15 days.

The Court had taken suo motu cognisance of online gambling while granting bail, calling for wider interrogation of the legality of “online gambling schemes” by the Central and Madhya Pradesh governments. In particular, the Court focused on whether these games “are just and correct and in accordance with the legal provisions obtaining in the country or there is need [sic] to check such schemes to save the youth of the country from being diverted to unlawful activities spoiling their career”.

Why it matters : As MediaNama has previously reported , online gambling and gaming services have led to rising numbers of financial losses, addiction-related harms, and deaths by suicide in India. This has prompted several state governments to pass laws that regulate the sector. However, many of these laws follow a similar pattern of banning these services wholesale, leading to their being struck down by High Courts across the country on constitutionality grounds. How the Madhya Pradesh government approaches the issue may once again force a reckoning for India’s gaming and gambling sector.

Read More

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event