1. Both these appeals, one preferred by the Revenue and other by

 the assessee, arise out of same judgment of the Income Tax

 Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as ‗the Tribunal'). In

 fact, as noted hereafter at the appropriate stage, some of the

 issues are decided by the Tribunal in favour of the assessee and

 some other issues against the assessee and in favour of the

 Revenue. It is for this reason that both feel aggrieved by some of

 the findings of the Tribunal and have approached this Court in the

 form of these appeals preferred under Section 260A of the Income

 Tax Act (hereinafter referred to as ‗the Act'). ITA No.131 of 2003

 filed by the assessee was admitted on the following substantial

 questions of law: 2. Likewise, in ITA 134 of 2003, the following substantial questions of

 law were framed for determination: Re: Statement of Facts: It also sought some time to file its return of income. Ultimately,

 the return was filed on 30.12.1999, reiterating that no income

 earned by the appellant was chargeable to tax in India. 9. The AO, however, went ahead with the assessment proceedings. The assessment order dated 29.03.2000 was passed assessing the

 income of the assessee at `160,28,03,316. According to the AO,

 the appellant had a business connection in India and, therefore,

 was chargeable to tax in India. He rejected the appellant's

 contention that its revenues ought to be apportioned having

 regard to the number of countries covered by the footprint. ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 6 of 74 According to him, the revenues would have to be apportioned on

 the basis of countries targeted by the T.V. Channels who were the

 appellant's customers. On this basis, he estimated that ninety

 percent of the appellant's revenue was attributable to India. After

 arriving at the income of the appellant, he held that eighty per

 cent thereof was apportioned to India as most of the channels

 were India specific and their advertisement revenue was from

 India. Order of the CIT(A) 10. Being aggrieved by the order of the AO, the appellant preferred an

 appeal to the CIT (A). Various grounds were urged challenging the

 liability to pay tax in India as well as the manner in which the AO

 had computed the appellant's income chargeable to tax. 11. The CIT (A) disposed of the appeal by an order dated 04.12.2000. He noted that there was no dispute that the appellant had not

 received any income in India. The only dispute, according to the

 CITA (A), was as to whether any income could be deemed to have

 accrued to the appellant in India within the meaning of Section 9 of the Act. He held that although it could be said that there was

 some kind of territorial nexus of the beam which was downlinked

 from the appellant's satellite with India, the proprietary rights in

 the nature of copyright, etc. in the down linked beam did not

 belong to the appellant but belonged to the T.V. channels. He

 held that there was no evidence on record to hold that the

 appellant had any India specific beaming facility. He found that on

 the basis of the facts brought on record it could not be said that ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 7 of 74 the down linked beam could be restricted to any particular region

 or country. According to the CIT (A), it was the responsibility of

 the appellant to keep the equipment in good shape and to ensure

 the quality of the down linked beam in the footprint area in

 respect of a beam uplinked by the customer. He found that the

 telemetry, tracking and control operations were carried out from

 Hong Kong and that no beam was uplinked from India. His finding

 was that the agreements were signed outside India and the

 payments were also received outside India. Only the signals could

 be received in India but as a matter of fact these were not

 received in India either by the appellant or its agent but by cable

 TV operators who had agreements for reception of signals with the

 TV channels to whom the property in the signal belonged. He

 accordingly held that as the performance of the contract was not

 in India it could not be said that any income accrued to the

 appellant in India. He found that the circular, being Circular

 No.742 dated 2nd May, 1996, issued by the Central Board of Direct

 Taxes in connection with the taxation of foreign telecasting

 companies would have no application to the appellant's case. He

 rejected the argument of the AO that the waves generated by the

 appellant on which the programmes were mounted penetrating

 Indian space to reach the footprint area. According to him, the

 substance of the agreement was the hiring of transponder time

 and it was not an agreement for carrying programmes of the

 customers. He further held that having regard to the judgment of

 the Supreme Court in the case of 20th Century Finance

 Corporation and Anr. Vs. State of Maharashtra [119 STC ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 8 of 74 182], the taxable event would have to be decided on the basis of

 the execution of the contract and as admittedly the contracts were

 entered into outside India the accrual of income would also take

 place outside India. 12. Thereafter, the CIT (A) dealt with the issue as to whether the

 appellant would have a business connection in India. After

 referring to certain decisions of the Supreme Court, he concluded

 that the appellant did not have any agreement with any Indian

 company and was not rendering any service to any Indian

 company and, therefore, it could not be said that the appellant

 had a business connection in India. He also held that the

 appellant was not carrying out any operations in India as the only

 operations that were carried out by the appellant were in the

 satellite which was located outside India. The mere fact that the

 appellant had put in place a satellite in a manner that downlinked

 signals could be received in Indian territory also did not result in

 an inference that any part of the appellant's business operations

 were carried out in India. As per him, the position may have been

 different if it had been shown that the satellite company, the TV

 channels and the cable operators were interconnected or that the

 transactions among them were not carried out at arms length. But

 as there was no evidence or mention of any of these factors, he

 held that no income could be said to be deemed to accrue or arise

 in India in terms of Section 9(1)(i) . 13. CIT (A) thereafter proceeded to deal with the issue as to whether

 the amounts received by the appellant were liable to be taxed in

 India in terms of Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. Argument of the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 9 of 74 Revenue in this behalf was that the appellant received payments

 from some companies located outside India which companies in

 turn received payments from Indian companies or companies

 operating in India in respect of signals received in India and,

 therefore, the provisions of Section 9(1)(vi) would be attracted.

 According to the AO, the appellant would fall within the definition

 of royalty as the said term was defined in Explanation 2 below Section 9(1)(vi) , as it was a payment for use of ―similar property‖.

 The CIT(A) held that the issue to be decided was whether the

 customers were merely using a physical asset or were they using

 the process installed in the transponder. According to him, the

 signals were uplinked by the customers and were received in the

 transponder. The complicated devices in the transponder

 segregated the programme from the beam, amplified them,

 mounted them on new beams of wavelengths different from the

 original wavelength of the customers and transmitted the

 programmes on the new beam in the footprint area of the beam.

 The payments that are made by the customers were for this

 purpose and not for the use of the physical asset simpliciter. The

 details of the operations carried in the transponder were not

 known to the customer, the customer made the payment because

 they were aware of the fact that the uplinked beam would be

 processed in the satellite and would be downlinked in the manner

 that it could be received by the customers viz., the TV channels,

 communication companies or their agents. The CIT (A) held that

 the customers were, therefore, using the secret process put in

 place in the transponder on the satellite and the payments were ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 10 of 74 made for this purpose and not for merely the use of a physical

 asset. He, therefore, came to the conclusion that the amount paid

 to the appellant by its customers represented royalty as the said

 expression was defined in Explanation 2 below Section 9(1)(vi) .

 He further held that in view of the judgment of the Supreme Court

 in the case of Performing Rights Society Vs. Commissioner

 of Income Tax [106 ITR 11), it would be apparent that the TV

 channels would be making the payment by way of royalty in

 respect of a right or information used or services utilized for the

 purpose of a business carried on by them in India. The TV

 channels which made programmes predominantly meant for

 Indian persons were utilizing the processing facilities of the

 appellant for the business carried on by them in India and hence

 the appellant was chargeable to tax in India. 14. Having regard to the view that he took, viz., that the income was

 chargeable to tax in terms of Section 9 (1) (vi) , he felt that it was

 not necessary to consider the question of deductibility of the

 expenses. Nevertheless, he thought it fit to dispose of all the

 grounds that were raised and were filed before him. Insofar as the

 claim for lease rentals is concerned, he held that 50% of the lease

 rentals payable for AsiaSat 1 ought to be allowed as a deduction.

 Similarly, the expenditure on maintenance and satellite operations

 was also allowed to the extent of 50% insofar as AsiaSat 1 was

 concerned and 75% insofar as AsisSat 2 was concerned. As

 regards the claim for depreciation, he accepted the contention of

 the appellant that depreciation would have to be allowed on the

 actual cost of the satellite and not on a notional written down ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 11 of 74 value which was computed as if depreciation had been allowed in

 the earlier years. However, he rejected the contention of the

 appellant that it was entitled to a deduction by way of

 depreciation on the entire cost of the asset by relying on Section

 38 of the Act. He held that the C Band of AsiaSat 2 generated only

 75% of the total revenues of AsiaSat 2, and therefore, 75% of the

 depreciation that was calculated on the actual cost ought to be

 allowed as a deduction. He considered the question as to what

 portion of the income so arrived at was to be considered

 chargeable to tax in India. He noted that the AO had not given

 any reason as to why 80% of the revenues should be attributed to

 India. He also noted that the appellant was located in Hong Kong

 and, therefore, a substantial part of its business was likely to come

 from clients of Chinese and Japanese origin. He rejected the

 appellant's contention that the test to be applied whilst pro-rating

 the income would be either the number of countries which are

 covered by the footprint or the Gross National Product (GDP) per

 capita of the countries covered by the footprint. He held that

 appropriate ratio to be applied would be the area of the country to

 the total area of the footprint with areas of large water bodies like

 inland lakes, seas and oceans being ignored. He also cancelled

 the levy of interest under Section 234B of the Act, but upheld the

 levy of interest under Section 234A of the Act. The Order of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal: The
 Impugned Order 15. Aggrieved by the said order, both the appellant as well as the AO

 field appeals before the Tribunal, which appeals were consolidated ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 12 of 74 and heard together and have been dispose of the appeals by a

 common order dated 01.11.2002. The Tribunal first addressed the

 issue as to whether income of the appellant was chargeable to tax

 in terms of Section 9(1)(i) . It held that no income accrued to the

 appellant from any property in India or from an asset or source in

 India or through the transfer of a capital asset situated in India. It,

 however, held that the appellant could be said to have a business

 connection in India because according to the Tribunal, in order to

 constitute a business connection, the test to be applied was that

 there must be an activity of the non-resident in India having an

 intimate relationship of a business character with the business of

 the non-resident which contributes to the earning of the profit by

 the non-resident in his business. According to the Tribunal, the

 activity of the appellant was to amplify and relay the signals over

 the footprint once the signals were uplinked to the satellite by the

 TV channels. The Tribunal concluded that the obligation of the

 appellant was to make available programmes of the TV channels

 in India through the transponder on its satellite. The appellant

 could acquire the right to receive its income only if the

 programmes were made available in India, and therefore, the

 Tribunal held that the appellant would have a business connection

 in India. 16. The Tribunal further held that no part of the appellant's income

 was chargeable to tax in India in terms of Section 9 (1) (i) as no

 operations to earn the income were carried on in India. The

 Tribunal held that in order to establish that the business

 operations were carried out in India, it was necessary to point out ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 13 of 74 that some part of the appellant's operations were carried out in

 the territory of India. The Tribunal found that the appellant had no

 office or agent or subsidiary in India which acted between it and

 the cable operators in facilitating the receipt of the signals. No

 machinery was installed by the appellant in India through which

 the programmes were reaching India. The Tribunal further found

 that the Department had not brought to its notice any operation

 which was done by the appellant in India and hence it held that

 the provisions of Section 9(1)(i) would have no application. 17. The Tribunal next dealt with the question as to whether the

 provisions of Section 9(1)(vi) would be attracted. The Tribunal

 noted that the only operation conducted by the appellant was

 confined to receiving the signals, amplifying them and after

 changing the frequency, relaying them back to earth. However,

 the Tribunal held that the word ―used‖ in clause (iii) of Explanation

 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) must be given the meaning which it has in

 common parlance. According to the Tribunal it was not necessary

 that there must be a physical connection with the item to the

 used. It is held that as long as the user derived advantage out of

 the property by amplifying the signals, it would tantamount to

 ―use‖ within the meaning of clause (iii). It further held that there

 was a physical contact of the signal of the TV channels with the

 process in the transponder provided by the appellant. It was only

 when the signals came into contact with the process in the

 transponder that the desired results were produced. Therefore,

 the Tribunal concluded that the TV channels were using

 transponder capacity so as to enable the cable operators to ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 14 of 74 receive the programmes. The Tribunal further held that ―process‖

 referred to in clause (iii) need not necessarily be a secret process

 as the word ―secret‖ only qualified ―formula‖. The Tribunal

 thereafter referred to several dictionary meanings of the word

 ―process‖ as well as the published material filed by the appellant

 and concluded that the TV channels were using the process made

 available by the appellant through its transponder. The function of

 the satellite in the transmission channel was to receive the

 modulated carrier that the earth station emits, to amplify it and

 thereafter relay it for reception at the destination earth station. 18. According to the Tribunal, considering the role of the appellant in

 the light of the meaning of the term ―process‖, it became evident

 that the ―particular end‖ viz. viewership by public at large was

 achieved only through a series of steps taken by receiving the

 uplinked signals, amplifying them and relaying them after

 changing the frequency in the footprint area which would include

 India. As per its findings, the TV channels were not merely using

 the facility but were using a process as a result of which the

 signals after being received in the appellant's satellite were

 converted to a different frequency and after amplification were

 relayed to the area covered by the footprint. The Tribunal held

 that judgment of the Madras High Court in Skycell

 Communications Ltd. Vs. DCIT [251 ITR 53) relied upon by the

 appellant was distinguishable on facts and would not apply. The

 Tribunal thereafter considered the applicability of the decision of

 the Madras Bench in the case of Raj Television Network Ltd. It

 held that the said decision need not be followed inasmuch as the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 15 of 74 Madras Bench did not have the advantage of considering various

 arguments regarding process and other aspects of royalty as were

 urged before it. The Tribunal found that the transponder was not

 ―equipment‖ and hence the payment made by the TV channels to

 the appellant could not be regarded as one for use of equipment.

 The Tribunal held that the appellant had not leased out any

 equipment but had only made available the process that was

 carried out in the transponder to its customers. 19. As regards the contention that even if the payment was to be

 regarded as one falling within the definition of royalty,

 nevertheless, as the TV channels were non residents, the income

 could not be brought to tax by virtue of sub-clause (c) of Section

 9(1)(vi) , the Tribunal held that the TV channels were using the

 services of the appellant for the purpose of their business, which

 business was being carried on in India. The Tribunal took the view

 that business is carried on at a place where some activity capable

 of producing income is carried on. The source of income of the TV

 channels were the Indian advertisers who made payment for

 advertising their products during the course of the relay of the

 programmes in India. The other source of revenue was the cable

 operators who caught the signals and distributed them to the

 public. According to the Tribunal, therefore, the essential activity

 was to make available the programmes of the TV channels in India

 and, therefore, they found that the TV channels would be carrying

 on business in India. The Tribunal also held that in any event, the

 source of the income of the TV channels would certainly be in

 India. It accepted the appellant's contention that the source did ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 16 of 74 not refer to the persons who made the payment but referred to

 the activity which gave rise to the income. According to the

 Tribunal, it was the ultimate viewership of the programmes

 transmitted by the TV channels which actually produced the

 income and, hence, the source of income of the TV channels must

 be regarded to be in India. The Tribunal held that the TV channels

 could earn income in many forms such as receipts from

 advertisers or from cable operators. The possibility of a channel

 not earning income from any source in India also could not be

 ruled out and in such an eventuality, the lease rentals earned by

 the appellant from such TV channels could not be assessed to tax

 in India under Section 9 (1)(vi) . On this premise, the AO was been

 directed to determine the income chargeable to tax after giving an

 adequate opportunity of being heard to the appellant. 20. The Tribunal, thereafter, considered whether it would be open to

 the Revenue to raise an additional ground to urge that the amount

 received would be chargeable to tax under Section 9(1)(vii) as a

 fee for technical service. The Tribunal held that it would be open

 to either party viz., an assessee or the revenue to raise a legal

 ground before the Tribunal for the first time and if the ground is

 only a legal ground which does not require consideration of any

 fresh facts, it was not only the right of the parties but the duty of

 the Tribunal to admit the ground. According to the Tribunal, all

 the facts necessary for adjudication of the issues as to whether

 the amount received was chargeable to tax under Section 9(1)(vii) were available on record and hence they considered it appropriate

 to admit the additional ground. However, having admitted the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 17 of 74 additional ground, the Tribunal felt that it was not necessary to

 deal with the same inasmuch as it had already upheld the

 contention that the amount was chargeable to tax in terms of Section 9 (1)(vi) . 21. The Tribunal, thereafter, proceeded to consider the manner of

 computation of the income. The Tribunal held that the provisions

 of Section 44D would be inapplicable and hence the appellant

 would be entitled to a deduction of the expenditure incurred by it.

 The Tribunal held that the income received by the appellant would

 be chargeable to tax under the head ―Profits and gains of business

 or profession‖. Therefore, the Tribunal held that the computation

 would have to be made in accordance with Chapter IV D. The

 Tribunal stated that if the starting point of the computation of the

 total income was only the revenue relatable to India, then, only

 the proportionate expenses relating to India should have been

 deducted rather than deducting the expenses in total from the net

 revenue relatable to India and thereafter apportioning the net

 income of the South Beam and C Band to India. The Tribunal,

 therefore, set aside the computation and directed that it would be

 done de novo by the AO. The computation to be done would

 involve two steps. First, the AO would have to calculate the gross

 receipts relatable to India and thereafter deduct therefrom the

 expenses in relation to income attributable to India. 22. Having said so, the Tribunal then dealt with the question as to

 what was the depreciation that would be allowed to the appellant.

 The Tribunal held that there was a difference between income

 which was exempt from income-tax and income which was outside ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 18 of 74 the scope of the charging provision. The Tribunal held that

 depreciation allowable to the appellant had to be apportioned.

 However, the Tribunal accepted the contention of the appellant

 that the depreciation would be allowable on the actual cost and

 not on the written down value calculated on the basis of a notional

 allowance of depreciation. The Tribunal also upheld the

 contention of the appellant that the provisions of Section 44C would not be attracted and hence the disallowing provisions

 thereof would be inapplicable. 23. As regards the levy of interest under Sections 234A and 234B was

 concerned, the Tribunal held that the appellant would be liable to

 pay interest under Section 234A . However, with regard to levy of

 interest under Section 234B , the Tribunal held that if the receipt of

 income by the appellant was of such a nature on which tax was

 deductible, then, the appellant would not be obliged to pay

 advance tax and consequently there would be no liability to

 interest. It, therefore, directed the AO to examine whether the

 amount of tax deductible by the TV channels by virtue of the

 provisions of Section 195 was equal to or more than the tax

 payable by the appellant, and if so, then no liability to pay interest

 under Section 234B would arise. If however, the tax deductible

 was less than the tax payable by the appellant, the difference

 would be considered for the purpose of levy of interest under Section 234B . Relevant Statutory Provisions: ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 19 of 74 24. Chapter II of the Income Tax Act under the caption ―Basis of

 Charge‖ enumerates various provisions on the basis on which

 income of a person is exigible to tax in India. Section 4 is the

 charging Section. Section 5 delineates the ‗scope of total income'.

 Sub-section (1) thereof deals with total income earned by a

 resident with which we are not concerned in the instant case, as

 the appellant is admittedly a non-resident. It is the sub-section

 (2), which is relevant for a non-resident, which reads as under: Explanation 1 : Income accruing or arising outside India shall
 not be deemed to be received in India within the meaning of
 this section by reason only of the fact that it is taken into
 account in a balance sheet prepared in India. Explanation 2 : For the removal of doubts, it is hereby
 declared that income which has been included in the total
 income of a person on the basis that it has accrued or arisen
 or is deemed to have accrued or arisen to him shall not again
 be so included on the basis that it is received or deemed to
 be received by him in India.‖ 25. It is clear from the reading of the aforesaid provision that a non- resident is liable to pay tax on the income derived by him, which is

 received or deemed to be received in India or which accrues or

 arises or is deemed to accrue or arise in India during the relevant

 year. Thus, a non-resident is under an obligation to pay tax in

 respect of income generated/earned by him in India. Section 9 of

 the Act lays down the various circumstances under which income

 would be deemed to accrue or arise in India. We are concerned ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 20 of 74 herewith Clause (i), (vi) and (vii) therefore, we are extracting

 below only those portions of this provision and omitting other

 portions of this lengthy Section: Explanation [1] : For the purposes of this clause - (a) In the
 case of a business of which all the operations are not carried
 out in India, the income of the business deemed under this
 clause to accrue or arise in India shall be only such part of
 the income as is reasonably attributable to the operations
 carried out in India; ................ (b) a person who is a resident, except where the royalty
 is payable in respect of any right, property or
 information used or services utilised for the purposes
 of a business or profession carried on by such person
 outside India or for the purposes of making or
 earning any income from any source outside India ;
 or (c) a person who is a non-resident, where the royalty is
 payable in respect of any right, property or
 information used or services utilised for the purposes
 of a business or profession carried on by such person
 in India or for the purposes of making or earning any
 income from any source in India : 26. The facts noted above would demonstrate that the endeavour of

 the Revenue is to bring the case of the appellant within the

 mischief of all or any of the aforesaid clauses (i), (vi) and (vii) of

 sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the Act in order to bring the

 appellant within the tax net in India. For applicability of Clause (i), ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 22 of 74 it is necessary to establish that the appellant has business

 connection in India. It is also necessary to establish that the

 appellant was carrying out some operation in India from which the

 income was earned in this country. Though the Tribunal has held

 that the appellant has business connection in India, it has also

 returned the findings that no operation was done by the appellant

 in India and therefore, Section 9(1)(i) of the Act would have no

 application. The appellant has challenged the finding of the

 Tribunal holding that it had a business connection in India.

 However, it was accepted at the bar that in case the finding of the

 Tribunal that there was no operation in India is affirmed, issue as

 to whether the appellant had business connection in India would

 be of academic interest. 27. Insofar as income earned by the appellant from its customers in

 India is concerned, the Tribunal has held that this would qualify as

 ‗royalty' as defined in Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. 28. As far as applicability of Clause (vii) of Section 9(1) of the Act is

 concerned, though this was an issue raised by the Revenue for the

 first time before the Tribunal, the Tribunal admitted the additional

 ground as purely legal, at the same time the Tribunal also refused

 to answer this issue. Basically, therefore, issues which arise for

 consideration in this appeal concern Clauses (i), (vi) and (vii) of

 sub-Section (1) of the Section 9 of the Act and we proceed to deal

 with these issues in that order. Re: Applicability of Section 9(1)(i) : ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 23 of 74 29. The Tribunal has held that even when the appellant has business

 connection in India, no part of the appellant's income was

 chargeable to tax in India in terms of Section 9 (1) (i) as no

 operations to earn the income were carried on in India. The

 Revenue in its appeal has challenged this finding of the Tribunal.

 On the other hand, the appellant is aggrieved against that part of

 order, which holds its business connection in India and the

 contention is that the appellant does not even have business

 connection in India. 30. We have already reproduced the provision of Section 9(1)(i) of the

 Act along with Explanation 1 thereof. In order to succeed, the

 Revenue has to prove that the income has accrued or arisen,

 whether directly or indirectly in India, i.e. (a) through or from any

 business in India; or (b) through or from any property in India; or (c) through or from any assets or source of income in India; and (d) through or from transfer of capital assets situate in India. The

 case is sought to be covered only on the premise that the income

 to the appellant accrued or arisen through or from business

 connection in India. Explanation 1 clarifies that if a business of

 which all operations are not carried out in India, the income of the

 business deemed under this clause to accrue or arise in India shall

 be only such part of the income as is reasonably attributable to

 the operations carried out in India. In order to bring the case

 within this clause, it was stressed by the learned counsel for the

 Revenue that the business of the appellant was to help its clients

 who were the TV channels , in relaying their programmes from the

 satellites in the footprint including India. It was explained that the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 24 of 74 TV channels were uplinking their programmes and after the

 receipt of the signals at the satellite and processing through

 various processes embedded in the transponders, the appellant

 was making available the signals in the footprint area including

 India; agreements were entered into with these clients by the

 appellant to ensure that the programmes are made available in

 India and it was the duty of the appellant to make available those

 programmes in India. Therefore, urged the learned counsel, not

 only there was a direct business connection of the appellant in

 India, income which was received as a result of these operations

 should be treated as received or accrued or arisen in India. It was

 argued that Explanation 1 created a fiction by laying down a

 deeming provision. It was also argued that the words ‗directly or

 indirectly' used in Clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the

 Act clearly demonstrated that wider possible interpretation tot his

 deeming provision was to be given. It was the endeavour of the

 learned counsel to demonstrate that a causal link was established

 to attract the deeming provision inasmuch as the appellant by

 providing its services to the TV channels was making it possible for

 those TV channels to relay their programmes in India and the

 viewers watching those programmes as well as cable operator

 located in India were making payments to the TV channels and

 these TV channels were in turn out of those earnings were making

 payments to the appellant with whom these TV channels were

 directly connected. 31. On the other hand, Mr. S. Ganesh, learned Senior counsel

 appearing for the appellant, submitted that the Tribunal with well ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 25 of 74 supported reasoning had arrived at the conclusion that income did

 not accrue or arise in India under Clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the Act and heavily relied upon the same. 32. After considering the respective submissions, we are of the view

 that the findings of the learned Tribunal on the non-applicability of Section 9(1)(i) of the Act are proper, justified and legally

 sustainable. We have already taken note of the Explanation (a) to

 this sub-clause, which lays down that in the case of which all the

 operations are not carried out in India, the income of the business

 deemed under this clause to accrue or arise in India shall be only

 such part of the income as is reasonably attributable to the

 operations carried out in India. It, thus, clearly follows that

 carrying out the operations in India, wholly or at least partly, is

 sine qua non of the application of Clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the Act. Can it be said that the appellant, under the

 given circumstances, is doing some business in India, i.e., is there

 any business act of the appellant which could be attributed to the

 Indian territory? Under the agreement with TV channels, role

 attributed to the appellant can be paraphrased in the following

 steps: 33. Accepted position is that the first two steps are not carried out in

 India and the entire thrust of the Revenue is limited to the third

 step and the argument is that the relaying of the programmes of

 in India amounted to the operations carried out in India. Whether

 this argument is sustainable? Answer is emphatic no! Merely

 because the footprint area includes India and the programmers by

 ultimate consumers/viewers are watching the programmes in

 India, even when they are uplinked and relayed outside India,

 would not mean that the appellant is carrying out its business

 operations in India. The Tribunal has rightly emphasized the

 expressions ―operations‖ and ―carried out in India‖ occurring in

 Explanation (a) to hold that these expression signify that it was

 necessary to establish that any part of the appellant's operations

 were carried out in India. No machinery or computer, etc. is

 installed by the appellant in India through which the programmes

 are reaching India. The process of amplifying and relaying the

 programmes is performed in the satellite which is not situated in

 the Indian airspace. Even the Tracking, Telemetering and Control

 (TTC) operations are also performed outside Indian in Hong Kong.

 No man, material or machinery or any combination thereof is used

 by the appellant in the Indian territory. There is no contract or ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 27 of 74 agreement between the appellant either with cable operators or

 viewers for reception of signals in India. 34. We, thus, hold that Section 9(1)(i) is not attracted in the present

 case. Re: Applicability of Section 9(1)(vi) 35. The Tribunal has covered the case of the assessee under this

 provision and therefore, it is the subject matter of challenge in the

 appeal filed by the appellant. To recapitulate briefly the process

 of transmission of TV programmes, it starts with TV channels

 (customers of the appellant) uplinking the signals containing the

 TV programmes; thereafter the satellite receives the signals and

 after amplifying and changing their frequency relays it down in

 India and other countries where the cable operators catch the

 signals and thereafter distribute them to the public. If any person

 has got dish antenna, he can also catch the signals relayed from

 these satellites. The role of the assessee in this cycle is that of

 receiving the signals, amplifying them and after changing

 frequency relaying them on the earth. It is for this service, the TV

 channels make payment to the assessee. The learned CIT(A) held

 that the payment so made by the customers was in the nature of

 royalty liable to tax under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. 36. Royalty is given a specific meaning in Explanation 2 which has

 already been extracted above. The Tribunal is also in agreement

 with the conclusion of the CIT(A) and the reasons which led to

 taking this view by the Tribunal have also been stated above. ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 28 of 74 37. The basic submission of Mr. Ganesh was that the service charges

 received by AsiaSat from its customers are not ―royalty‖ because

 the said charges are not recovered for the use of any equipment

 or process as such by the customer. AsiaSat renders services to

 its customers by operating and using the transponders on the

 satellite. It is emphasized that the satellites and their operations,

 and the processes by which the satellites operate, are used only

 by AsiaSat and not by AsiaSat's customers, because AsiaSat has

 complete control over the operation of the satellites and AsiaSat's

 customers have no control over them. The operation of the

 transponder involves reception of a wireless signal at a particular

 frequency, selection of the component equipment which combine

 to form the transponder by means of commands through AsiaSat's

 Telemetry, (―TT&C‖), conversion of the signal to another

 frequency, amplification of the signal and retransmission of the

 same. There is no confidential or protected intellectual property

 which is at all involved in any of these operations, and further, in

 any event, the equipment and the process involved in the

 operation thereof are used by AsiaSat and not by its customers.

 As the customer does not utilize the said equipment or the process

 involved in its operations, the charges paid by it to AsiaSat are not

 covered by Clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) of the

 Act and therefore, the same are not ―royalty‖. 38. The learned Senior counsel referred to and gave his own analysis

 to the Standard Agreement entered into by AsiaSat with its

 customers, which is summarized below: ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 29 of 74 39. He also referred to the ruling of the Authority for Advance Rulings

 (AAR) in the case of ISRO Satellite Centre [ISACT] Vs.

 Commissioner concerned DIT (Intl. Taxation) [307 ITR 59]

 pointing out that the process of operation of a satellite and the

 role played by the transponder therein and the control and

 operation of the transponder have been discussed in detail in the

 Ruling in the said judgment . It was argued that this judgment

 gives the definition and explains the working of the transponder.

 Every transponder receives a signal at a particular frequency and

 retransmits it at a different frequency over the footprint area of

 the satellite. This is the process employed in the transponder. Further, the transponder may also amplify the signal before

 retransmitting it. In the ISRO (supra) case, there was no

 amplification of the signal, but the ruling of the AAR is not based

 or founded on this fact as such. The learned counsel emphasized

 that ratio of the aforesaid Ruling was that where transponder and

 the process therein are actually utilized by the satellite operator

 for rendering a service to the customer, it cannot be said that the

 transponder or process employed therein are used by the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 30 of 74 customer. On this premise, it was argued that the question of

 receiving any royalty for ‗use' of the transponder does not arise,

 as there was no such user. 40. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in

 the case of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. and Anr. Vs. Union of

 India (UOI) and Ors. [282 ITR 273] wherein the Apex Court laid

 down the crucial significance of holding the license required to

 operate the equipment in question. It is only the person who holds

 the requisite license as required by the statute, who can be said to

 operate, use and control the equipment in question,. In the

 present case, the license required by the statute for operating the

 satellite and all its parts, components and systems is held only by

 AsiaSat and not by its customers. Further, AsiaSat is prohibited

 from parting with control of any part of the operations of the

 satellite to its customers. 41. It was also argued that the essence of the agreement was required

 to be seen and nomenclature as held by the Supreme Court in the

 case of Puran Singh Sahini Vs. Sundari Bhagwandas

 Kripalani & Ors. [(1991) 2 SCC 180]. On the reading of the

 agreement with the customers, argued the learned Senior counsel,

 it was clear that the appellant had not leased out the equipments

 to the customers. On the contrary, the equipment was used by

 the appellant as its owner only to provide and render services to

 its customers, which was a vital distinction brought out clearly by

 the Karnataka High Court in the case of Lakshmi Audio Visual

 Inc. Vs. Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Kar .)

 [124 STC 426], which reads as under: ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 31 of 74 Can it be said that right to use of the lorry has been
 transferred by the carrier to the customer ? The answer is
 obviously in the negative, as there is no transfer of the "use
 of the lorry" for the following reasons : (i) The lorry is never
 in the control, let alone effective control of the customer ; (ii) the carrier decides how, when and where the lorry
 moves to the destination, and continues to be in effective
 control of the lorry ; (hi) the carrier can at any point (of
 time or place) transfer the consignment in the lorry to
 another lorry ; or the carrier may unload the consignment
 en-route in any of his godowns, to be picked up later by
 some other lorry assigned by the carrier for further
 transportation and delivery at destination. (ii) On the other hand, let us consider the case of a
 customer (say a factory) entering into a contract with the
 transport operator, under which the transport operator has
 to provide a lorry to the customer, between the hours 8.00
 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. at the customer's factory for its use, at a
 fixed hire per day or hire per km subject to an assured
 minimum, for a period of one month or one week or even
 one day ; and under the contract, the transport operator is
 responsible for making repairs apart from providing a driver
 to drive the lorry and filling the vehicle with diesel for
 running the lorry. The transaction involves an identified
 vehicle belonging to the transport operator being delivered
 to the customer and the customer is given the exclusive
 and effective control of the vehicle to be used in any ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 32 of 74 manner as it deems fit ; and during the period when the
 lorry is with the customer, the transport operator has no
 control over it. The transport operator renders no other
 service to the customer. Therefore, the transaction involves
 transfer of right to use the lorry and thus be a deemed
 sale.‖ 42. Mr. Ganesh also submitted that the language of Section 9 1(vi) was almost verbatim and identical to the language which also had

 earlier been used in international tax treaties. In that international

 tax treaties, the term ‗royalty' came up for discussion before the

 Courts in the following cases: a) Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Ahmedabad

 Manufacturing and Calico Printing Co. [139 ITR 806

 (Guj)]. b) Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Vishakhapatnam

 Port Trust [(1983) 144 ITR 146 (AP). c) N.V. Philips Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax [172

 ITR 521]. d) Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Neyvali Lignite

 Corporation Ltd. [243 ITR 459 (Mad.)]. 43. It was, thus, urged that the same meaning to the term ‗royalty'

 should be assigned while interpreting Section 9(1)(vi) as well. He

 emphasized that one has to keep in mind that every item in

 Clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) refers to an item of

 intellectual property. The doctrine of noscitur a sociis, therefore,

 applies squarely to the interpretation of Clause (iii) of Explanation

 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) . This doctrine has been applied by this Court

 in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Bharti Cellular

 Ltd. [175 Taxman 573] for the interpretation of Explanation 2 to ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 33 of 74 Section 9(1)(vii) . Therefore, the term ―process‖ occurring in

 Clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to Section 9(1)(vi) means a process

 which is an item of intellectual property. The process employed in

 the transponder of a satellite, i.e., of changing the frequency and

 amplifying the signal is not at all an item of intellectual property

 because that process has been in the public domain for more than

 half a century. The payment received by AsiaSat from its

 customers is, therefore, not a payment for the use of the process

 employed in the transponder any more than the payment made by

 a customer using a chauffeured private taxi is for the use of the

 internal combustion engine in the car. 44. It was further submitted that Section 9(1)(vi)(c) only applies where

 the use of the process in question has taken place in India, just as

 it was held by the Supreme Court in the case of Ishikawajima-

 Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. Vs. DIT [(2007) 288 ITR 408

 (SC)] that Fee for Technical Services is taxable in India under Section 9(1)(vii)(c) only if such technical services are rendered in

 India. The language of Section 9(1)(vi)(c) is similar to that of Section 9(1)(vii)(c) and therefore, the ratio of Ishikawajima-

 Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. (supra) case applies squarely to

 the interpretation of Section 9(1)(vi)(c) . 45. Mr. Sanjeev Sabharwal, learned counsel for the Revenue,

 staunchly refuted the aforesaid contentions. His first submission

 was that whether the appellant had control over the satellite or

 not makes no difference having regard to the language of the

 provision. He drew our attention to sub-section (3) of Explanation ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 34 of 74 2 which according to him, merely states ‗use of standard facility'.

 His submission was that: 46. His alternate submission was that even if the control is relevant,

 the same was with the customer (whom the services were

 provided). For this purpose, he referred to the definition of

 transponder, which makes a difference between satellite as carrier

 and the transponder. According to him, what is relevant is the

 ‗control of the transponder' and not the satellite which merely is a

 carrier, i.e., Nuclear Warhead has two parts, Carrier or rocket and

 ‗payload' or ‗bomb'. Further to determine control, the agreement

 needs to be examined. The agreement states: 6. Physical control is neither necessary nor warranted in

 present context. The control of satellite is with appellant.

 However, more relevant and effective control of the ‗use'

 of the transponder is with the broadcaster. 47. Mr. Sabharwal also joined the issue with the learned counsel on

 the applicability of the judgment in the case of ISRO (supra). He

 submitted that the appellant was not right in relying upon the ISRO (supra) because of the following reasons: 48. He also submitted that argument of the appellant that sub-clause (iii) to Explanation 2 is limited to IPR as ‗process' on the

 application of the principle of noscitur a sociis was incorrect for the

 following reasons: which would always include ‗process patent'

 therefore in case patent is not protected, then over

 a period of time becomes ‗process of general

 application' and thus no infringement is possible. b) The distinction is not only maintained between

 ‗patent' and process but patent is followed by

 ‗process' and thus the legislature while using the

 word process was aware of the restrictive meaning ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 37 of 74 patent connotes and hence in income tax act it has

 been given a ‗wider' definition. c) The usage of the wider word after restrictive word

 would show the intention of the legislature is to

 give it an extended meaning. d) Lastly and more importantly, sub-clause (vi) to

 Explanation 2 further extends its meaning by

 stating that even ‗any services' - all services which

 are not IPR proper are included. 49. He also referred to Article 12-Royalties in the book ―Interpretation

 and Application of Tax Treaties‖ by Ned Shelton. This article with

 captioned ‗Royalties' makes reference to satellite services and

 states that: (i) They were always included; and ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 38 of 74 (ii) In fact for removal of doubts/to clarify Australian- Canadian DTAA has been even amended. Following passage from the book was relied for this purpose: ‗Purely' in this context means that the provider of the
 know-how does not provide additional services to the user.
 If, for instance, the contract also involves technical
 assistance, the character is mixed and the payment should
 be split into a part considered a royalty (to which Article 12 applies) and a part considered a service payment (to which Article 7 applies). Payments for services and advice given
 by engineers, lawyers or accountants do not constitute
 royalties, but are covered by Article 7. The same applies to
 payments made for management and similar services. It
 should be noted, however, that this is often ignored by
 source countries; consequently, these countries
 (particularly developing countries) frequently subject such
 payments to a withholding tax on royalties.‖ 50. Mr. Sabharwal also argued that the ‗process' in sub-clause (iii)

 need not be ‗secret' and following justification was sought to be

 given for this argument: Thus, it was submitted that ‗process need not be secret' but

 should protect the commercial interest of the appellant, which is

 protected in the agreement. 51. His next submission was that the payment of interest, royalty and

 fee for Technical Services (FTS) need not have territorial nexus as ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 40 of 74 the same is governed by ‗Source Rule'. He explained ‗Source

 Rule' to mean that the country from which the services are

 utilized/payments are made, would determine territorial

 jurisdiction. Dealing with the judgment of the Supreme Court in

 Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. (supra), he

 submitted that it was held therein that country from which

 services are ‗received' will have jurisdiction. The said decision

 was rendered on 06.01.2007 by the Supreme Court. According to

 him, this principle is not applicable for following reasons: In nutshell, he submitted that the territorial nexus is not relevant

 in taxing the ‗satellite services'/'utilization of segmented

 transponder capacity' and is to fall in the tax jurisdiction of the

 source country, i.e., where services are utilized in regard to use of

 process embedded in the active transponder, [control whereof is

 with the broadcaster] and in view of use of word ―process‖, which

 does not have to be ‗secret' but having restrictive access to be

 commercially exploitable. 52. The entire controversy revolves round the interpretation which is

 to be given to sub-clause (vi) of Section 9(1) of the Act. This sub-

 clause makes income by way of royalty payable by certain persons

 as chargeable to tax. These persons pay the ‗royalty' made either

 by the Government or a resident or a non-resident. We have to

 keep in mind that Section 9 of the Act is a deeming provision and

 if the situation specified therein exists, it is to be deemed that

 income has accrued or arisen in India. The term ‗royalty' is

 assigned a specific meaning in Explanation 2 to sub-clause (vi) of Section 9(1) of the Act. We have already pointed out above that in

 this case, we are concerned with sub-clause (i), (iii) and (vi) of the

 said Explanation. Though these sub-clauses have already been

 reproduced above, for the sake of continuity in our discussion, we

 take note of these sub-clause once again, which are as follows: 53. Sub-clause (i) deals with the situation when the rights in the

 intellectual property of the nature specified therein are

 transferred. This transfer includes ‗the granting of a licence' as

 well. As per sub-clause (iii), even when the kind of intellectual

 property therein is allowed to be used, consideration paid for use

 thereof would qualify for my ‗royalty'. Sub-clause (vi) makes it

 wider as payments made even when any services are rendered in

 connection with activities referred to in sub-clauses (i) to (iv), (iva)

 and (v), those payments are to be termed as ‗royalty' for the

 purpose of Section 9 . 54. Having commented broadly upon the nature of ‗royalty' specified

 in the aforesaid provision and before we interpret the provisions

 with reference to certain specific language used therein, we deem

 it apposite to lay down the ground rules which are to be kept in

 mind before undertaking the exercise of interpretative process. (1) It is to be kept in mind that Section 9 of the Act is a

 deeming provision and if the situation specified therein

 exists, it is to be deemed that income has accrued or

 arisen in India. (2) Clause says that the imparting of any information

 concerning the working of, or the use of, a patent,

 invention, model, design, secret formula or process or

 trade mark or similar property. ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 43 of 74 (3) It is settled law that the words of a statute are first

 understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense

 and phrases and sentences are construed according

 their grammatical meaning unless that leads to some

 absurdity or unless there is something in the context,

 or in the object of the statute to suggest the contrary.

 In a case if the language of the statute is not clear and

 there is need to resort to aids of construction, such

 aids can be either internal or external. Internal aids of

 constructions are definitions, exceptions, explanations,

 fictions, deeming provisions, headings, marginal notes,

 preamble, provisos, punctuations, saving clauses, non

 obstante clauses, etc. The external aids are

 dictionaries, earlier Acts, history of legislation,

 parliamentary history, parliamentary proceedings,

 state of law as it existed when the law was passed, the

 mischief sought to be suppressed and the remedy

 sought to be advanced by the Act. Therefore, need

 for these aids would arise only if some ambiguity is

 found in the definition of term ‗royalty' as appearing in

 the aforesaid provision. (4) As per Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act, the income by way

 of royalty payable by the Government or a resident; or

 a non-resident shall be deemed to accrue or arise in

 India. The term royalty has been defined in

 Explanation 2 to Section 9(1) (vi) of the Act. In the

 case of Keshavji Ravji & Co. Vs. CIT [(1990) 183 ITR ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 44 of 74 1 (SC), the Supreme Court said that an Explanation

 generally speaking, is intended to explain the meaning

 of certain phrases and expressions contained in the

 statutory provisions. There is no general theory as to

 the effect and intendment of an Explanation except

 that the purpose and intendment are determined by

 its own words. An Explanation depending upon its own

 language might supply or take away something from

 the contents of a provision. It is also true that an

 Explanation may be introduced by way of abundant

 caution in order to clear any mental cobwebs

 surrounding the meaning of the statutory provision

 spun by interpretative errors and to place what

 Legislature considers to be true meaning beyond any

 controversy or doubt. In view of decision of the

 Supreme Court in Keshavji Ravji & Co. (supra),

 Explanation 2 has to be read as part and parcel of Section 9 (1)(vi) of the Act. (5) The Finance Act, 2007 inserted the following

 Explanation to Section 9 with retrospective effect from

 01.06.1976, which reads as under: resident has a residence or a place of business or

 business connection in India or the non-resident has

 rendered services in India. Therefore, once the

 consideration is received by non-resident for the

 transfer or all or any rights including the granting of a

 licence in respect of a patent, invention, model,

 design, secret formula or process or similar property or

 any copyright literary, artistic or scientific work, the

 consideration received shall be deemed to accrue or

 arise in India and will be taxable in India. ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 46 of 74 (6) Section 90 of the Act provides relief from double

 taxation and reads as under: tax chargeable under this Act or under the
 corresponding law in force in that country, or
 investigation of cases of such evasion or
 avoidance, or (d) For recovery of income-tax under this Act
 and under the corresponding law in force in
 that country, and may, by notification in the
 Official Gazette, make such provisions as may
 be necessary for implementing the agreement. (2) Where the Central Government has entered
 into an agreement with the Government of any
 country outside India under sub-section (1) for
 granting relief of tax, or as the case may be,
 avoidance of double taxation, then, in relation
 to the assessee to whom such agreement
 applies, the provisions of this Act shall apply to
 the extent they are more beneficial to that
 assessee. (3) Any term used but not defined in this Act
 or in the agreement referred to in sub-Section
 (1) shall, unless the context otherwise requires,
 and is not inconsistent with the provisions of
 this Act or the agreement, have the same
 meaning as assigned to it in the notification
 issued by the Central Government in the
 Official Gazette in this behalf. Explanation - For the removal of doubts, it is
 hereby declared that the charge of tax in
 respect of a foreign company at a rate higher
 than the rate at which a domestic company is
 chargeable, shall not be regarded as less
 fafourable charge or levy of tax in respect of
 such foreign company.‖ ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 47 of 74 (7) The four clauses of sub-section (1) lay down the scope

 of power of Central Government to enter into an

 agreement with another country. Clause (a)

 contemplates situations where tax has already been

 paid on the same income in both the countries and in

 that case it empowers the Central Government to

 grant relief in respect of such double taxation. Clause (b) of Section 90 which is wider than clause (a)

 provides that an agreement may be made for the

 avoidance of double taxation of income under this act

 and the corresponding laws enforced in that country. investigation of cases and recovery of Income-tax.

 The effect of an agreement made pursuant to the Section 90 is that if no tax liability is imposed under

 this Act, the question of resorting to agreement would

 not arise. No provision of the agreement can fasten a

 tax liability when the liability is not imposed by this

 Act. If a tax liability is imposed by this Act, the

 agreement may be resorted to for negativing or

 reducing it. In case of difference between the

 provisions of the Act and of an agreement under Section 90 , the provisions of the agreement shall

 prevail over the provisions of the Act and can be

 enforced by an appellate authority or the Court.

 However, as provided by sub-section (2), the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 48 of 74 provisions of this Act will apply to assessee in the

 event they are more beneficial to him. Where there is

 no specific provision in the agreement, it is the basic

 law i.e. the Income-tax Act which will govern the

 taxation of income. 55. Keeping in view the aforesaid principles, we now embark upon the

 interpretative process in defining the ambit and scope of term

 ‗royalty' appearing in Explanation 2 to sub-clause (vi) of Section

 9(1) of the Act. Sub-clause (i) deals with the transfer of all or any

 rights (including the granting of a licence) in respect of a patent,

 etc. Thus, what this sub-clause envisages is the transfer of ―rights

 in respect of property‖ and not transfer of ―right in the property‖.

 The two transfers are distinct and have different legal effects. In

 first category, the rights are purchased which enable use of those

 rights, while in the second category, no purchase is involved, only

 right to use has been granted. Ownership denotes the relationship

 between a person and an object forming the subject matter of his

 ownership. It consists of a bundle of rights, all of which are rights

 in rem, being good against the entire world and not merely against

 a specific person and such rights are indeterminate in duration

 and residuary in character as held by the Supreme Court in the

 case of Swadeshi Ranjan Sinha Vs. Hardev Banerjee [AIR

 1992 SC 1590]. When rights in respect of a property are

 transferred and not the rights in the property, there is no transfer

 of the rights in rem which may be good against the world but not

 against the transferor. In that case, the transferee does not have

 the rights which are indeterminate in duration and residuary in ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 49 of 74 character. Lump sum consideration is not decisive of the matter.

 That sum may be agreed for the transfer of one right, two rights

 and so on all the rights but not the ownership. Thus, the definition

 of term royalty in respect of the copyright, literary, artistic or

 scientific work, patent, invention, process, etc. does not extend to

 the outright purchase of the right to use an asset. In case of

 royalty, the ownership on the property or right remains with owner

 and the transferee is permitted to use the right in respect of such

 property. A payment for the absolute assignment and ownership

 of rights transferred is not a payment for the use of something

 belonging to another party and, therefore, no royalty. In an

 outright transfer to be treated as sale of property as opposed to

 licence, alienation of all rights in the property is necessary. 56. As noticed above, the Tribunal has held that the appellant is

 deriving income from lease of transponder capacity of its

 satellites. The appellant is deriving income from lease of

 transponder capacity of its satellites. The appellant is amplifying

 and relaying the signals in the footprint area after having been

 linked up by the TV channels. The essence of the agreement of

 the TV channels with the appellant is to relay their programmes in

 India. The responsibility of the appellant is to make available

 programmes of the TV channels in India through transponders on

 its satellite. The function of the satellite in the transmission chain

 is to receive the modulator carrier that earth stations emitted as

 uplinking, amplifying them and retransmitting them and downlink

 for reception at the destination earth stations. The meaning of the

 word ―process‖ being a series of action or steps taken in order to ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 50 of 74 achieve a particular end, considering the role of the appellant in

 the light of meaning of the term ‗process', it is evident that the

 particular end, viz., viewership by the public at large was achieved

 only through the series of steps taken by receiving the uplinked

 signals, amplifying them and relaying them after changing the

 frequency in the footprint area including India. This is held that

 the TV channels in entire cycle of relaying the programmes in

 India were using the process provided by the assessee and,

 therefore, it is liable to be taxed as royalty income. 57. We have to test the rationality of the aforesaid reasoning and

 consider the attack thereupon by the appellants in their

 arguments recorded above. Before that, we may take note of few

 judgments relevant to the context. In the case of Commissioner

 of Income Tax Vs. Datacons P. Ltd. [155 ITR 66 (Kar.)], the

 company was engaged in processing the data supplied by its

 customers by using IBM unit record machine computer. The

 assessee received vouchers and statements of accounts from its

 customers and converted them into balance sheets, stock

 accounts, sales analyses etc. They were printed as per the

 requirement of the customers. The Karnataka High Court held

 that in all these activities, the assessee had to play an active role

 by coordinating the activities and collecting the information. Such

 activities amounted to processing of goods. In the case of NV

 Philips Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax [172 ITR 521], the

 assessee received the amount for providing specialized knowledge

 of manufacturing particular commodity which included working

 methods, manufacturing process including indications, ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 51 of 74 instructions, specifications, standards and formulae, method of

 analysis and quality control. It was held that the payment for the

 user of such specialized knowledge, though not protected by a

 patent, was assessable as royalty. In the case of DCM Ltd. Vs.

 Income Tax Officer , the issue related to transfer of

 comprehensive technical information know-how and supply of

 equipment. It was held that the collaboration agreement dealing

 with the dispatch of one or more of its engineers, technologists to

 visit the factory site of the assessee, train the factory personnel

 and to commission the specified processes, would not create a

 permanent establishment. Therefore, it was held that the

 payments were not in the nature of ‗royalty'. In Modern Threads

 (I) Ltd. Vs. DCIT, it was held that the payments were made in

 installments to Italian company for supply of technical know-how

 and also for supply of basic process engineering documentation

 for designing, construction and operation of plant subject to their

 liability on account of rectifying form, it was held that the amount

 paid for supply of technical know-how and basic engineering

 documentation for setting of the plant in India for manufacturing

 of PTA was the business profit in the hands of Italian company in

 the absence of permanent establishment in India. 58. In the light of our discussion explaining Explanation 2 to Section

 9(1) of the Act, let us proceed to apply these principles on the

 facts of the case. The starting point has to be the nature of

 services provided by the appellant to its customers as per the

 agreement arrived at between them. Keeping in view the

 aforesaid operation of the satellites, we revert back to the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 52 of 74 agreement entered into between the appellant and its customers.

 It is clear from various clauses of the agreement (and noticed

 above), the appellant is the operator of the satellites. It also

 remains in the control of the satellite. It had not leased out the

 equipments to the customers. On this basis, it is argued by the

 appellant that the equipment is used by the appellant and it is

 only providing and rendering services to its customers and not

 allowing the customers to use the process. In the case of ISRO (Supra), AAR has narrated in detail the process of the operation

 of a satellite and the role played by the transponder therein. 59. Following features of the agreement entered into by the appellant

 with its clients need to be highlighted at this stage: 60. Once we keep in mind the aforesaid important aspects, it is not

 difficult to find the answer to the question posed. In fact, we can

 say that it is SO provided by the AAR in ISRO (supra). A close

 scrutiny of the said ruling of the AAR would clearly reveal that

 where the operator has entered into an agreement for lease of

 transponder capacity and has not given any control over parts of

 satellite/transponder, the provisions of sub-clause (vi) would not

 apply. In the present case also, the appellant had merely given

 access to a broadband with available in a transponder which can

 be utilized for the purpose of transmitting the signals of the

 customer. In that case, after taking note in depth, the operation

 and the functioning of transponder, the AAR emphasized on the

 fact that data sent by the telecast operator does not undergo any

 change for improvement through the media of transponder. ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 54 of 74 Following discussion from the said judgment needs to be

 reproduced: receiver capable of accepting the challenge of an
 interrogator and automatically transmitting an appropriate
 reply‖. In Chamber's Dictionary of Science and Technology,
 ‗transponder' (communication), is defined as an equipment
 forming part of a communications satellite, which receives
 signals from a ground station at one frequency and re- ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 55 of 74 transmits them to another ground station or to domestic
 satellite receivers at another frequency‖. 16. It is clear that the applicant in the course of carrying
 out its objectives and operations will not be using any
 equipment of IGL satellite or the transponder. What the
 applicant needs to do is to adjust or tune its system to
 access the navigation transponder space segment capacity.
 By earmarking a space segment capacity of the
 transponder for use by the applicant, the applicant does not
 get possession (actual or constructive) or control of the
 equipment of IGL. The applicant and the end-users are
 enabled to have the benefit of use of facility provided by
 Inmarsat 4th generation satellite and the navigational
 transponder it has. That is the objective of GAGAN Project.
 The applicant does not use or operate any equipment of
 IGL. The lease of space segment capacity related to L1 and
 L5 transponder only means that a segment of the
 navigational transponder though which the data passes is
 allocated to the applicant so that it could be utilized for the
 specific purpose of making available the augmented data
 sent by the applicant through its ground station to the
 users extensively. The substance of the contract is the
 facility given to the applicant for the utilization of space
 segment capacity of the transponder for transmitting the
 augmented data as to the position of an object on land, air
 or water so that the end user can have access to it through
 SABS receiver. The use of capacity, as clarified by the
 applicant involves the use of bandwidth, that is to say, a
 particular bandwidth in the transponder meant exclusively
 for navigational purposes is linked to the earth station
 (INLUS). The expression ‗use of space segment capacity' of
 transponder has no reference to any operations performed
 by means of the transponder. The use or operation of
 transponder as such is not at all contemplated under the
 Contract. What really happens is that the augmented
 data sent by INLUS reaches the transponder and it is
 transmitted back to the Earth and the same is
 accessed by SBAS user receivers in the coverage
 area. In response to a query, the applicant
 specifically clarified that the transponder does not
 perform any operation with reference to the data
 uplinked and downlinked and "there is no on-board
 data storage.‖ 61. It is worthwhile to note that the contention of the Department that

 there was use of transponder by the applicant was specifically

 rejected in the following terms: 62. It is also clear from the above that the aspect of amplification of

 data by the transponder is taken only as additional factor, but the

 judgment is not entirely rested on that. This Ruling further

 categorically demonstrates that in a case like this, services are

 provided which is integral part of the satellite, remains under the

 control of the satellite/transponder owner (like the appellant in this

 case) and it does not vest with the telecast operator/TV channels. 63. Position is substantially the same in the present case as well. The

 Tribunal has distinguished this judgment and has opined that it is

 not applicable because of the reason that in ISRO (supra), there

 was any amplification of the signal whereas in the present case,

 signals are amplified. That, to our mind, would not make any

 difference insofar as ultimate conclusion is concerned, inasmuch

 as the ruling of the AAR is not founded on the aforesaid

 consideration. It becomes manifest when we take note of the ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 57 of 74 question posed by the AAR before answering the same. The AAR

 expressed this as under: 64. On the aforesaid poser, the AAR discussed the issue and held that

 the transponder and the process therein are actually utilized for

 the satellite use3r for rendering the services to the customer and

 further that it cannot be said that the transponder or process

 employed therein are used by the customer. 65. It needs to be emphasized that a satellite is not a mere carrier, nor

 is the transponder something which is distinct and separable from

 the satellite as such. It was explained that the transponder is in

 fact an inseverable part of the satellite and cannot function

 without the continuous support of various systems and

 components of the satellite, including in particular: 66. It was also not disputed that each transponder requires continuous

 and sustained support of each of the above-mentioned systems of

 the satellite without which it simply cannot function.

 Consequently, it is entirely wrong to assume that a transponder is

 a self-contained operating unit, the control and constructive

 possession of which is or can be handed over by the satellite

 operator to its customers. On the contrary, the transponder is

 incapable of functioning on its own. In fact, the Tribunal has itself

 demonstrated so in the order as is clear from the following: 67. Even after stating so, the Tribunal did not take the aforesaid view

 to its logical conclusion, viz., the process carried on in the

 transponder in receiving signals and retransmitting the same, is

 an inseparable part of the process of the satellite and that process

 is utilized only by the appellant who is in control thereof. Whether

 it is done with or without amplification of the signal would not

 make any difference, in such a scenario. 68. We are inclined to agree with the argument of the learned Senior

 counsel for the appellant that in the present case, control of the

 satellite or the transponder always remains with the appellant.

 We may also observe at this stage that the terms ―lease of

 transponder capacity‖, ―lessor‖, ―lessee‖ and ―rental‖ used in the

 agreement would not be the determinative factors. It is the

 substance of the agreement which is to be seen. When we go

 through the various clauses of the said agreement, it becomes

 clear that the control always remained with the appellant and the

 appellant had merely given access to a broadband available with

 the transponder, to particular customers. We may also point out ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 60 of 74 that against the decision of the AAR in ISRO (supra) case, Special

 Leave Petition was dismissed by the Supreme Court (see Puran

 Singh Sahni Vs. Sundari Bhagwandas Kripalani & Ors. ,

 (1991) 2 SCC 180). 69. We may also refer to the following distinction brought out by the

 Karnataka High Court between leasing out of equipment and the

 use of equipment by its customer. This was done in the case of Lakshmi Audio Visual Inc. Vs. Asstt. Commissioner of

 Commercial Taxes (Kar .) [124 STC 426] in the following terms: 70. Argument was addressed on the meaning which is assigned to

 the term ―royalty‖ occurring in sub-clause (iii) of Explanation 2.

 The learned counsel for the appellant had argued that the

 doctrine of niscitur a sociis would apply and the process should be

 treated as item of intellectual property. On this it was argued

 that the process employed in the transponder of a satellite, i.e.,

 changing of frequency and amplifying the signal, is not at all an

 item of intellectual property. Though there appears to be some

 force in this argument, it is not necessary to answer it

 conclusively. The fact remains that there is no use of ‗process' by

 the TV channels. Moreover, no such purported use has taken ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 62 of 74 place in India. It is stated at the cost of repetition that the

 telecast companies/customers are situated outside India and so is

 the appellant. Even the agreements are executed abroad under

 which the services are provided by the appellant to its customers.

 The transponder is in the orbit. Merely because it has its footprint

 on various continents would not mean that the process has taken

 place in India. This aspect now stands concluded by the Supreme

 Court in the case of Ishikawaima-Harima Heavy Industries

 Ltd. (supra). In that case, the appellant, a non-resident

 company incorporated in Japan, along with five other enterprises

 formed a consortium. The consortium was awarded by Petronet a

 turnkey project for setting up a liquefied natural gas (LNG)

 receiving, storage and regasification facility in Gujarat. The

 contract specified the role and responsibility of each member of

 the consortium and the consideration to be paid separately for

 the respective work of each member. The appellant was to

 develop, design, engineer, procure equipment, materials and

 supplies to erect and construct storage tanks including marine

 facility (jetty and island breakwater) for transmission and supply

 of LNG to purchasers, to test and commission the facilities, etc.

 The contract involved : (i) offshore supply, (ii) offshore services, (iii) onshore supply, (iv) onshore services and (v) construction and

 erection. The price for offshore supply and offshore services was

 payable in US dollars, that for onshore supply and onshore

 services and construction and erection partly in US dollars and

 partly in Indian rupees. The payment for offshore supply of

 equipment and materials supplied from outside India was ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 63 of 74 received by the appellant by credit to a bank account in Tokyo

 and the property in the goods passed to Petronet on the high seas

 outside India. Though the appellant unloaded the goods, cleared

 them from Customs and transported them to the site, it was for

 and on behalf of Petronet and the expenditure including the

 customs duty was reimbursed to it. The price of offshore services

 for design and engineering including detailed engineering in

 relation to the supplies, services and construction and erection

 and the cost of any other services to be rendered from outside

 India, was also paid in US dollars in Tokyo. On these facts the

 appellant applied to the Authority for Advance Rulings (Income

 Tax) for a ruling on the following points: The Authority ruled: 71. In that case, the appellant approached the Supreme Court

 challenging the aforesaid judgment of the AAR. The Supreme

 Court reversed the decision of the AAR and in the process, inter

 alia, held as under: resident by way of technical fees would not always
 come within the purview of Section 9(1)(vii) . It must
 have sufficient territorial nexus with India so as to
 furnish a basis for imposition of tax. (viii) That even in relation to such income, viz., income
 from offshore services, the provisions of Article 7 of
 the Convention would be applicable, as services
 rendered outside India would have nothing to
 do with the permanent establishment in India. Thus, if any services had been rendered by the head
 office of the appellant outside India, only because
 they were connected with the permanent
 establishment, even in relation to the principle of
 apportionment would apply.‖ (emphasis
 supplied) 72. The Tribunal has made an attempt to trace the fund flow and

 observed that since the end consumers, i.e., persons watching TV

 in India are paying the amounts to the cable operators who in turn

 are paying the same to the TV channels, the flow of fund is traced

 to India. That is a far-fetched ground to rope in the appellant in

 the taxation net. The Tribunal has glossed over an important fact

 that the money which is received from the cable operators by the

 telecast operators is treated as income by these telecast operators

 which has accrued in India and they have offered and paid tax. ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 68 of 74 Thus, the income which is generated in India has been duly

 subjected to tax in India. It is the payment which is made by the

 telecast operators who are situated abroad to the appellant which

 is also a non-resident, i.e., sought to be brought within the tax net. 73. For the aforesaid reasons, it is difficult to accept such far-fetched

 reasoning with no causal connection. 74. Even when we look into the matter from the standpoint of ―Double

 Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA)‖, the case of the appellant

 gets boost. The Organisation of Economic Cooperation and

 Development (OECD) has framed a model of ―Double Taxation

 Avoidance Agreement (DTAA)‖ entered into by India are based. Article 12 of the said model DTAA contains a definition of ―royalty‖

 which is in all material respects virtually the same as the definition

 of ―royalty‖ contained in clause (iii) of Explanation 2 to Section

 9(1) (vi) of the Act. This fact is also not in dispute. The learned

 counsel for the appellant had relied upon the commentary issued

 by the OECD on the aforesaid model DTAA and particularly,

 referred to the following amendment proposed by OECD to its

 commentary on Article 12 , which reads as under: 75. Much reliance was placed upon the commentary written by Klaus

 Vogel on ‗Double Taxation Conventions (3rd Edition)'. It is

 recorded therein: 76. Klaus Vogel has also made a distinction between ―letting an asset‖

 and ―use of the asset by the owner for providing services‖ as

 below: 77. The Tribunal has discarded the aforesaid commentary of OECD as

 well as Klaus Vogel only on the ground that it is not safe to rely

 upon the same. However, what is ignored is that when the

 technical terms used in the DTAA are the same which appear in Section 9(1)(vi) , for better understanding all these very terms,

 OECD commentary can always be relied upon. The Apex Court

 has emphasized so in number of judgments clearly holding that

 the well-settled internationally accepted meaning and

 interpretation placed on identical or similar terms employed in

 various DTAAs should be followed by the Courts in India when it

 comes to construing similar terms occurring in the Indian Income

 Tax Act . We may reproduce the following passage from the

 judgment of the Court in the case of Union of India and Another

 Vs. Azadi Bachao Andolan and Another , [(2003) 263 ITR

 706] in the following words: 78. There are judgments of other High Courts also to the same effect. These are as under: ( c) N.V. Philips Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax [172 ITR 521] at pages 527 & 538-539. 79. For the aforesaid reasons, we are unable to subscribe to the view

 taken by the Tribunal in the impugned judgment on the

 interpretation of Section 9(1) (vi) of the Act. We, thus, answer ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 72 of 74 Question No. (3) in favour of the assessee and against the

 Revenue and set aside the order of the Tribunal on this aspect.

 Re: Applicability of Section 9(1)(vii) : 80. It was for the first time that the Revenue argued before the

 Tribunal that income of the appellant was taxable under Section

 9(1)(vii) of the Act as well. The appellant had objected to the

 admission of this ground. The Tribunal brushed aside this

 objection and admitted the ground. At the same time, the

 Tribunal did not decide the issue as the income of the assessee is

 held taxable under Section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. It is for this reason

 both the assessee and the Revenue have challenged the order of

 the Tribunal whereas the appellant states that the Tribunal erred

 in admitting this ground, the Revenue pleads that the Tribunal

 erred in not deciding the issue even after admission. Insofar as

 the objection of the appellant is concerned, we are of the opinion

 that it has no merit. The Tribunal rightly held that the issue raised

 was purely legal, which did not require consideration of any fresh

 facts, as all necessary facts were adjudication of the issue as to

 whether the amount received was chargeable to tax under Section

 9(1)(vii) were available on record. Insofar as the issue on merit is

 concerned, interestingly no arguments were advanced by the

 learned counsel for the Revenue. The ground was admitted at the

 instance of the Revenue. Further specifically, question of law was

 raised and appeal admitted on that ground as to whether the

 Tribunal erred in law in not deciding the issue. In spite thereof,

 during arguments, this aspect on merits was not touched,

 therefore, we cannot accept the submission of the Revenue for ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 73 of 74 covering the case under Section 9(1)(vii) of the Act. Presuming,

 form the aforesaid conduct, the case is not sought to be covered

 under this Section. 81. As a result, the appeal preferred by the assessee is allowed and

 the judgment of the Tribunal is set aside and the appeal of the

 Revenue is dismissed. (A.K. SIKRI)
 JUDGE

 (REVA KHETRAPAL)
 JUDGE
JANUARY 31, 2011
pmc ITA Nos.131 & 134 of 2003 Page 74 of 74