SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Serious Advice needed. Please help
DATE: 2020-09-06
SCORE: 171
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/inqtaz/serious_advice_needed_please_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Greetings,

One month ago, I joined a Indian call centre.

When I initially visited, the boss told me that they were helping people in the United States by providing them with loans and insurance during the interview process. So, I thought it was legit and started working there. ( I am very gullible and stupid so I didn't realize it at the time that it was a scam call centre )

I was instructed to call some numbers given on the list provided to me and tell the people who picked up the call that their loan application was approved upto 10,000$ and if they agreed to take the loan then we were to ask them the loan amount they needed... their routing number, account number and other details which was later used by the boss who asked them to secure their loan amount through a 100$ insurance. 

Slowly I realized, the list i was given mainly targeted very old people and baited them for loan. The 100$ insurance money was never refunded back to them.

This was the opening script that I was made to say on call: (removed for safety)

I worked there for a month until I started getting suspicious because the people who were promised loans kept calling back days after the boss said that loans had been given to them and the boss was ignoring their calls after they had send the 100$ or something for insurance. 

So few days ago, I took phone number of one of the lady whose calls were ignored by the boss and secretly called her today. She said that she got scammed of 1500$ in total. My heart was crushed after listening to her.

That was just one customer. I am pretty sure my boss has scammed many old people in there 70s or 80s baiting them into some personal unsecured loan.

Now, I am feeling really guilty and angry. I'm planning to report these scammers to the cyber cell.

My questions are:

(a) Will I get arrested too if I reported the call centre to police because I worked there for a month being ignorant
... I really had no idea it was a scam until today?

(b) What evidences do I need? (The lady who got scammed told me she was ready to cooperate incase I needed evidence if I reported to the police)

Please guide me. I need some serious legal advice.

tl;dr worked in a scam indian call centre for a month and just realized now

EDIT1 - Karl Rock has replied to my email yesterday and is willing to help. I've shared with him the address, name, phone number and other details of the call centre that I had. He said that he will reply to me soon. 

EDIT2 - I am collecting evidence and the boss has gotten suspicious of me.

Yes, Karl rock told me to collect copy of documents of wrongdoing by the call centre and if possible also take video footage of people working. So.. I went to office yesterday.

For some reason, when I went yesterday the documents weren't at the place they normally are at. It was too strange to be a coincidence. They also wanted me to start taking closing script calls (where the scam happens) which I refused saying I am not feeling well today. One of the senior got very aggressive for some reason and talked to me rudely saying," jab man nhi h to nhi ana chahiye tha na kyu aye tmko bhut din se dekh rhe h calls lene me nautanki kr rhe ho" 

I complained to the supervisor but instead of talking to the senior he blamed it on me. To be honest, my supervision was increased drastically. I've never felt so unsafe before. People had there eyes on me, even when I was missing for a second for like going to washroom they got paranoid looking for me. Even the boss was observing me more yesterday than any other day. 

I did manage to take video footage secretly though. I am very scared now. They even offered to drop me home at 12 o clock in midnight but I refused saying I'll go at normal timing.

Anyhow, I'm 100% sure they have gotten suspicious. So I didn't goto work today. I'll be getting my salary tomorrow and then I'll say goodbye to that scammy place.

Fuck... I just dont want to get in trouble anymore.

EDIT3 - When I went to office on 10th September, my plan was initially to work on that last day and gather more useful evidence while at it. I also went to get my salary. 

When I switched on my work pc, I noticed that more than half of the important files were erased by someone (most likely my boss) which could have be used as major evidence against him if I had managed to steal them as it had call recordings of closing script and other data.

Surprisingly enough, my boss came in immediately as I switched on the pc and told me to go home after taking my salary. He didn't want me to work that day even when I insisted. He reacted aggressively and rudely when I asked if my salary would be counted for 10th september because atleast I came to work and he was the one who didn't want me to work. 

I won't try to stretch this but in short, my boss only gave me salary for 4 days saying I'll have to work 30 days more if I want full salary. He tried to deduct my salary for as many days as he can (even for days when I did work full time). I couldn't do much but listen.

He also tried to intimidate me outside the call centre when I inquired about stuff like why he doesn't want me to work today or why he is deducting salary for days I worked full time. 

Next day, on 11th September I sent my resignation email.