SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Another case of phone fraud. Got duped yesterday.
DATE: 2017-05-16
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/6bitn1/another_case_of_phone_fraud_got_duped_yesterday/

--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday I received a call. My fraud detection antennas got raging hard. "Sir, I am speaking from an NGO, we really need monetary help for a child under critical condition." I had a cunning smile. I thought to have some fun. I thought I would end the call blessing their moms and sisters, but before that I wanted to let them lead me on. 

"Sir you can login to our government website, and verify our credential." I smirked, yeah sure we'd see what 'government' site it is. "Sir please type ngo.india.gov.in and go to NGO directory search." Well, so far so good. I wonder what trickery they would employ. "Now search our unique ID 98685." Ok... "Sir you can see that our NGO is registered with government. You can see our registration number [blah blah..]" Yeah yeah fine. What next? "Sir, you can see the link to our website please open it". Hmmm... "www.prathamfoundation.org"

As I followed their instruction I got to look at their documents. In their About Us section you can see complete documents--Pan registration details, ITR details, and a few other documents. All valid. I sweated. I had been falsely leading these legitimate people to believe I would help them. It couldn't be possible, they have to be fraud, right? I looked some more, searched some more. Couldn't get anything on them.
 
Pictures of the child under treatment were present on their website. They immediately needed money for his treatment. I hesitated on the call. I promised to donate a little and cut the call.

I donated some amount and tried to forget what happened. It was not easy for me to digest the fact that there still are honest selfless people. In this world, we can't even trust our neighbors, but should we really not? Is there really no good left in the world? Have we become too cynical?