(PER : HONOURABLE MS. JUSTICE NISHA M. THAKORE)

1 By this writ application under Article 226 of the Constitution of Page 1 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

India, the writ applicant, a registered partnership firm, through one of
its partners, has prayed for the following reliefs: C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

2 The facts giving rise to this writ application may be summarized as
under: 3 The writ applicant is a limited liability partnership firm and is
engaged in the business of procuring various type of M.S. Scrap used for
the manufacturing of the TMT bars. The writ applicant is duly registered
under the Goods and Services Tax Act . Its principal place of business is
at Rajkot. 4 On 19th November 2021, the officials of the GST Department
undertook search proceedings at the registered premises of the writ
applicant and also at the residential premises of one of the partners
namely Niraj Jaydev Arya under Sub-section (2) of Section 67 of the
Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 [for short, "the Act, 2017"].
The search proceedings were undertaken on the allegation that the writ
applicant has availed Input Tax Credit on the basis of fake invoices
issued by fictitious firms without any movement of goods by the said
fictitious firms for the period of May 2019 till the date of the search
proceedings. 5 It appears that during the pendency of the search proceedings, the
respondent No.3 passed an order provisionally attaching multiple
properties like the factory premises, plant and machinery and bank
accounts including the fixed deposits. The respondent No.3 issued
multiple Form GST DRC - 22 in relation to the attachment of the
aforesaid properties. The multiple Form GST DRC - 22 came to be issued
by the respondent No.3 in exercise of powers under Section 83 of the
CGST Act, 2017. 6 The details of the properties which have been provisionally Page 3 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

attached are as under: 137. Offences by companies. C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

 (3) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
 taxable person being a partnership firm or a Limited Liability
 Partnership or a Hindu Undivided Family or a trust, the partner
 or karta or managing trustee shall be deemed to be guilty of that
 offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
 accordingly and the provisions of sub-section (2) shall, mutatis
 mutandis apply such persons. (4) Nothing contained in this section shall render any such
 person liable to any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves
 that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that
 he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of
 such offence. Explanation.- For the purposes of this section,-(i) "company"
 means a body corporate and includes a firm or other association
 of individuals; and (ii) "director", in relation to a firm, means a
 partner in the firm. Provisional attachment of Immovable Property of partner is
 made in tune with provision and is inevitable to secure
 government revenue." 12 Thus, from the aforesaid, what we have been able to understand is
that the respondent No.3 took the aid of Sections 90 and 137 resply of
the Act. 13 It appears that there is a reason why the respondent No.3 took the
aid of Sections 90 and 137 respectively of the Act. 14 Section 90 fixes the liability of partners of a firm to pay tax. Section 90 provides that in a case where any firm is liable to pay any tax,
interest or penalty under the Act, the firm and each of the partners of
the firm shall jointly and severally be liable for such payment. 15 Section 137 is with respect to the offences by company. Sub-
section (3) of Section 137 of the Act provides that where an offence
under the Act has been committed by a taxable person being a Page 8 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

partnership firm or a limited liable partnership or a Hindu Undivided
Family or a Trust, the partner or Karta or Managing Trustee would be
deemed to be guilty of such offence and would be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly. 16 Section 83 of the Act reads thus: 17 The plain reading of Section 83 referred to above makes it clear
that the property or properties which can be provisionally attached
should belong to a "taxable person". 18 Who is a taxable person? The term "taxable person" is defined
under Section 2(107) of the Act. The same reads thus: 19 Thus, a taxable person is a person who is registered or liable to be
registered under Section 22 or Section 24 of the Act. Section 22 of the
Act reads thus: (2) Every person who, on the day immediately preceding the appointed
 day, is registered or holds a licence under an existing law, shall be
 liable to be registered under this Act with effect from the appointed
 day. (3) Where a business carried on by a taxable person registered under
 this Act is transferred, whether on account of succession or otherwise,
 to another person as a going concern, the transferee or the successor, as
 the case may be, shall be liable to be registered with effect from the
 date of such transfer or succession. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (3), in
 a case of transfer pursuant to sanction of a scheme or an arrangement
 for amalgamation or, as the case may be, demerger of two or more
 companies pursuant to an order of a High Court, Tribunal or otherwise,
 the transferee shall be liable to be registered, with effect from the date
 on which the Registrar of Companies issues a certificate of
 incorporation giving effect to such order of the High Court or Tribunal. Explanation.--For the purposes of this section,-- (i) the expression "aggregate turnover" shall include all supplies made
 by the taxable person, whether on his own account or made on behalf
 of all his principals; (ii) the supply of goods, after completion of job work, by a registered
 job worker shall be treated as the supply of goods by the principal
 referred to in section 143 , and the value of such goods shall not be
 included in the aggregate turnover of the registered job worker; (iii) the expression "special category States" shall mean the States as
 specified in sub-clause (g) of clause (4) of article 279A of the
 Constitution." 20 Section 24 of the Act reads thus: 21 The term "person" has been defined under Section 2(84) of the
Act. It reads thus: C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022 (b) a Hindu Undivided Family; (c) a company; (d) a firm; (e) a Limited Liability Partnership; (f) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether
 incorporated or not, in India or outside India; (g) any corporation established by or under any Central Act,
 State Act or Provincial Act or a Government company as defined
 in clause (45) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013; (h) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a
 country outside India; (i) a co-operative society registered under any law relating to co-
 operative societies; (j) a local authority; (k) Central Government or a State Government; (l) society as defined under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 ; (m) trust; and (n) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the
 above;" 22 The respondent No.3, having realized that it is only the property
belonging to a taxable person that can be provisionally attached under Section 83 of the Act and the partner of an LLP not being a taxable
person in the case on hand, thought fit to take the aid of Section 90 and Section 137 resply of the Act for the purpose of provisionally attaching a
property owned by the partner of the LLP. 23 The moot question is whether Section 90 of the Act has any
application to the case on hand. C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

24 Section 90 of the Act is nothing, but the very same principle of
law, as enunciated under Section 25 of the Partnership Act. Section 25 of the Partnership Act reads thus: "25. Liability of a partner for acts of the firm.--Every partner is liable,
 jointly with all the other partners and also severally, for all acts of the
 firm done while he is a partner." 25 In the case of Her Highness Maharcmi Mandalsa Devi vs. H.
Ramnarain Private Ltd. reported in 65 B.L.R. 31, it has been laid down
by the Supreme Court that a partnership firm is to be treated as a
corporate body only for the purpose of Order XXX of the Code of Civil
Procedure . The legal fiction created by Order XXX cannot be carried too
far. The partnership firm has no legal entity. The persons, who are
individually called partners, are collectively called a firm, and the name
under which their business is carried on is called the firm name.
Therefore, a suit against the firm is really a suit against all the partners
of the firm, and therefore, a decree passed in such a suit is in effect a
decree against all the partners though it may in form be against the firm.
This decision of the Supreme Court merely lays down as a principle of
law that a partnership is not a legal entity distinct from its partners. A
firm and its partners are, therefore, interchangeable firm. If, therefore, a
partnership firm incurs any liability, it is the liability of all the partners. 26 Section 25 of the Partnership Act, 1932 referred to above provides
that every partner is liable, jointly with all the other partners and also
severally, for all acts of the firm done while he is a partner. It is,
therefore, clear that the liability of a partnership is the joint and several
liability of all its partners. C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

27 Thus, what Section 90 of the Act, 2017 conveys is the very same
principle as enunciated under Section 25 of the Partnership Act. In
future, as and when the liability of the LLP as a taxable person is
determined and fixed, such liability would be joint and several liability
of all its partners. In the case on hand, the respondent No.3 committed a
serious error in invoking Section 90 of the Act for the purpose of
provisionally attaching a property owned by a person of the LLP under Section 83 of the Act. There are two reasons why we say so. First, a
partner of an LLP is not a taxable person. It is the LLP i.e. the
partnership firm who is a "taxable person". The liability of the firm is yet
to be determined. There has been no assessment so far as the liability of
the firm is concerned. The day such liability is determined and fixed, it is
open for the department to proceed not only against the firm as a
taxable person, but also against individual partner of the firm. 28 Section 137 of the Act has absolutely no application. Section 137 is a provision which fixes the vicarious liability of the partners in the
event any offence is committed by a firm. 29 Sub-section (84) of Section 2 of the Act, 2017 defines the term
"person" to include an individual, a Hindu Undivided Family, a
company, a firm, a limited liability partnership, etc. Therefore, the Act
recognizes a firm as a dealer and as a person. The legislature having
treated an LLP as a taxable entity, distinct from the individual partners
constituting it, it was not open for the respondent No.3 to provisionally
attach the immovable property owned by a partner of the firm. 30 In the aforesaid context, a reference is made of the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Kapurchand Shrimal vs. Tax Recovery
Officer, Hyderabad and others [AIR 1969 SC 682] wherein the Supreme Page 14 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

Court has held as under: 31 Having regard to the principle enunciated in the above decision as Page 15 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

well as in the light of the above discussion, this Court is of the view that
the respondent No.3 was wholly unjustified in provisionally attaching a
personal property owned by a partner of the firm under Section 83 of
the Act, 2017. 32 In the aforesaid context, we may refer to and rely upon a Division
Bench decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Kaish Impex
Private Limited vs. Union and others [Writ Petition No.3145 of 2019
decided on 17th January 2020], wherein the question that fell for the
consideration of the Bombay High Court was whether the authority
could have proceeded to provisionally attach the property owned by a
person to whom just a summons under Section 70 of the Act was issued.
In the said case, on the date of the provisional attachment of the bank
account, only a summons under the Act was issued to the petitioner i.e.
Kaish Impex Pvt Ltd. The Bombay High Court took notice of the fact that Section 70 has not been mentioned in Section 83 of the Act. The Bombay
High Court also took notice of the fact that no proceedings were pending
against the petitioner therein under Sections 62 , 63 , 64 , 73 and 74 respectively of the Act. In such circumstances, it was contended on
behalf of the petitioner therein that the power under Section 83 could
not have been invoked against the petitioner. The Bombay High Court
proceeded to hold as under: 33 It appears that the respondent No.3 also overlooked the guidelines
issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs dated 23 rd
February 2021 for the provisional attachment of property under Section
83 of the Act. We may remind the respondent No.3 of what has been
stated in Clause 3.4.3, which reads thus: C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

34 We now proceed to consider whether the respondent No.3 was
justified in provisionally attaching the stock lying at the factory premises
and the attachment of sundry debtors. 35 Before we proceed to consider the aforesaid, we must try to
understand the scope and applicability of Section 83 of the Act. 36 In the aforesaid context, we must look into a very pronouncement
of the Supreme Court in the case of M/s. Radha Krishan Industries vs.
State of Himachal Pradesh and others [Civil Appeal No.1155 of 2021
decided on 20th April 2021]. Justice Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud,
speaking for the Bench, laid down the following proposition: (ii) The writ petition before the High Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution challenging the order of provisional attachment was
 maintainable; (iii) The High Court has erred in dismissing the writ petition on the
 ground that it was not maintainable; (iv) The power to order a provisional attachment of the property of the
 taxable person including a bank account is draconian in nature and the
 conditions which are prescribed by the statute for a valid exercise of the
 power must be strictly fulfilled; (v) The exercise of the power for ordering a provisional attachment
 must be preceded by the formation of an opinion by the Commissioner
 that it is necessary so to do for the purpose of protecting the interest of
 the government revenue. Before ordering a provisional attachment the
 Commissioner must form an opinion on the basis of tangible material
 that the assessee is likely to defeat the demand, if any, and that Page 18 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

 therefore, it is necessary so to do for the purpose of protecting the
 interest of the government revenue. (vi) The expression "necessary so to do for protecting the government
 revenue" implicates that the interests of the government revenue
 cannot be protected without ordering a provisional attachment; (vii) The formation of an opinion by the Commissioner under Section
 83(1) must be based on tangible material bearing on the necessity of
 ordering a provisional attachment for the purpose of protecting the
 interest of the government revenue;" 37 It would be apposite at this stage to also look into the guidelines
issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Government
of India dated 23rd February 2021 for provisional attachment of property
under Section 83 of the Act, 2017. We quote the guidelines as under: 3.1.2 Perusal of the above provision of the law suggests that the
 followings grounds must exist for resorting to provisional attachment of
 property under the provisions of section 83 of the Act. (i) There must be pendency of a proceeding against a taxable
 person under the sections mentioned in section 83 of the Act; (ii) The Commissioner must have formed the opinion that
 provisional attachment of the property belonging to the taxable
 person is necessary for the purpose of protecting the interest of
 the Government revenue. 3.1.3 For forming an opinion under section 83 , it is important that
 Commissioner must exercise due diligence and duly consider as well as
 carefully examine all the facts of the case, including the nature of
 offence, amount of revenue involved, established nature of business and
 extent of investment in capital assets and reasons to believe that the
 taxable person, against whom the proceedings referred in section 83 Page 20 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

 are pending, may dispose of or remove the property, if not attached
 provisionally. 3.1.4 The basis, on which, Commissioner has formed such an opinion,
 should be duly recorded on file. 3.1.5 It is reiterated that the power of provisional attachment must not
 be exercised in a routine/mechanical manner and careful examination
 of all the facts of the case is important to determine whether the case(s)
 is fit for exercising power under section 83 . The collective evidence.
 based on the proceedings/ enquiry conducted in the case, must indicate
 that prima-facie a case has been made out against the taxpayer, before
 going ahead with any provisional attachment. The remedy of
 attachment being, by its very nature, extraordinary, has to be resorted
 to with utmost circumspection and with maximum care and caution. 3.2 Procedure for provisional attachment of property

 3.2.1 In case, the Commissioner forms an opinion to attach any
 property, including bank account. of the taxable person in terms of section 83 , he should duly record on file the basis, on which he has
 formed such an opinion. He should, thereafter, pass an order in FORM
 GST DRC-22 with proper Document Identification Number (DIN)
 mentioning therein the details of property being attached. 3.2.2 A copy of the order of attachment should be sent to the
 concerned Revenue Authority or Transport Authority or Bank or the
 relevant Authority to place encumbrance on the said movable or
 immovable property. The property, thus attached, shall be removed
 only on the written instructions from the Commissioner. 3.2.3 A copy of such attachment order shall be provided to the said
 taxable person as early as possible so that objections, if any, to the said
 attachment can be made by the taxable person within the time period
 prescribed under rule 159 of the CGST Rules. If such objection is filed
 by the taxable person, Commissioner should provide an opportunity of
 being heard to the person filing the objection. After considering the
 facts presented by the person in his written objection as well as during
 the personal hearing, if any, the Commissioner should form a reasoned
 view whether the property is still required to be continued to be
 attached or not, and pass an order in writing to this effect. In case, the
 Commissioner is satisfied that the property was or is no longer liable for
 attachment, he may release such property by issuing an order in FORM
 GST DRC-23. 3.2.4 Even in cases where objection is not filed within the time
 prescribed under Rule 159(5) of CGST Rules, the Commissioner may
 take the grounds mentioned in the said objection/representation on Page 21 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022 C/SCA/188/2022 JUDGMENT DATED: 27/01/2022

 record and pass a reasoned order. Where the Commissioner is satisfied
 that the property was or is no longer liable for attachment, he may
 release such property by issuing an order in FORM GST DRC-23,

 3.2.5 Each such provisional attachment shall cease to have effect after
 the expiry of a period of one year from the date of the order of
 attachment. 3.2.6 If the provisionally attached property is of perishable/hazardous
 nature, then such property shall be released to the taxable person by
 issuing order in FORM GST DRC-23, after taxable person pays an
 amount equivalent to the market price of such property or the amount
 that is or may become payable by the taxable person, whichever is
 lower, and submits proof of payment. In case the taxable person fails to
 pay the said amount, then the said property of perishable/hazardous
 nature may be disposed of and the amount recovered from such
 disposal of property shall be adjustable against the tax, interest,
 penalty, fee or any other amount payable by the taxable person.
 Further, the sale proceeds thus obtained must be deposited in the
 nearest Government Treasury or branch of any nationalised bank in
 fixed deposit and the receipt thereof must be retained for record, so
 that the same can be adjusted against the amount determined to be
 recoverable from the said taxable person. 3.3 Cases fit for provisional attachment of property

 3.3.1 As mentioned above, the remedy of attachment being, by its very
 nature, extraordinary. needs to be resorted to with utmost
 circumspection and with maximum care and caution. It normally
 should not be invoked in cases of technical nature and should be
 resorted to mainly in cases where there is an evasion of tax or where
 wrongful input tax credit is availed or utilized or wrongfully passed on.
 While the specific facts of the case need to be examined in detail before
 forming an opinion in the matter, the following are some of type of
 cases, where provisional attachment can be considered to be resorted
 to, subject to specific facts of the case: Sd/- (Sanjay Mangal)
 Commissioner (GST)" (J. B. PARDIWALA, J)

 (NISHA M. THAKORE,J)
CHANDRESH Page 26 of 26 Downloaded on : Sun Apr 24 10:57:58 IST 2022