1. The present appeal has been filed by the appellant u/s

374 Cr.P.C . challenging sentence passed by Ld. ACMM in RC.SIB­

2004­E0001 in FIR No. 442/01 Police Station Darya Ganj on ground of

sympathy. 2. Facts giving rise to the present appeal are that FIR No.

442/01 was registered at Police Station Daya Ganj and investigation later

on was transferred to CBI. The offence in the present case was disclosed

when accused Mansoor was arrested in the case at Police Station Darya

Ganj. It is alleged that complainant Vikas Gupta came to police station

Darya Ganj and gave complaint alleging inter alia that he had placed an

order for non­judicial stamp paper worth Rs.26,000/­ with M/s Capital

Services. Accused Suhail was the managing director and accused

Mansoor was the manager of the said firm. Father of said Mr. Gupta

after seeing the stamps doubted their genuineness. They came to Tis

Hazari Treasury and were informed that those stamps were not issued

from there. He placed another order for non­judicial stamps and

informed the police in advance. The fake stamps were seized from Mr.

Gupta. Accused Mansoor was apprehended when he came to deliver

further stamps and on his disclosure counterfeit stamps worth of Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 2/12 Rs.8,35,515/­ were recovered from Connaught Circus office. On his

disclosure raid was conducted at R. K. Puram and accused Deepak

Bhosle and Wasim Shah were found affixing stamps on the booklets of

M/s Ashok Leyland Finance and M/s Escorts Finance Ltd. Various other

recoveries were made. It was further revealed that accused Dhiraj

Kanwar had opened a bank account in the name of M/s Capital Services

and several lacs of rupees were deposited and withdrawn from the said

account. Accused Ramneek Kanwar who is the brother of accused

Dhiraj Kanwar was also found involved in the whole episode. After

completion of investigation, charge sheet was filed against 19 persons.

Since the offences alleged against the appellant was found triable by the

court of Ld. ACMM, therefore, the case was remanded back to ld.

ACMM by Sessions court. 3. Charge was framed against the appellant to which the

appellant pleaded guilty and he has been convicted vide order dated

20.4.2009 and sentenced vide order dated 11.6.2009 and it is against this

order of sentence, that appellant has filed the present appeal. 4. One of the grounds of the appeal is that appellant is in

jail since 22.7.2005 and is not having any money for making payment of

such huge fine of Rs.5 lacs. An opportunity of reformation should always

be afforded to a convict so that he can lead a normal life on his release

into the society. But in the present case no such opportunity has been Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 3/12 afforded to the appellant and he would be forced to remain in jail for

most of his youthful years, if the impugned order is not set aside. 5. After filing of the appeal, notice was given to the CBI

and the trial court record was summoned. Special PP for CBI appeared

and contested the appeal. 6. I have heard ld. counsel for the appellant and ld. special

PP for CBI and have carefully perused the record. 7. It is an admitted fact that the appellant alongwith the

other co­accused persons in the present case have pleaded guilty to the

charges framed against him by trial court. The appellant has been

sentenced by the trial court which is as under: He is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 5

(Five) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rupees One lac) u/s 120­

B r/w 258/259/420/471/260 IPC and in default of payment of fine, he

shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year; (b) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment

for a period of 5 (five) years and to pay fine of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rupees

One lac) u/s 258 IPC and in default of payment if fine, he shall further

undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year; (c) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment

for a period of 5 (Five) years and to pay fine of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rupees Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 4/12 One Lac) u/s 259 IPC and in default of payment of fine, he shall further

undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year; (d) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment

for a period of 5 (Five) years and to pay fine of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rupees

One Lac) u/s 420 IPC and in default of payment of fine, he shall further

undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year; (e) He is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment

for a period of 5 (Five) years and to pay fine of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rupees

One Lac) u/s 471 IPC and in default of payment of fine, he shall further

undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year; All the sentences shall run concurrently. Benefit of set off

u/s 428 Cr.PC . is given w.e.f. 22.7.2005. 8. There is no definite sentencing policy in India and every

case has to be judged on its own facts and circumstances. The

observation of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in case 2009 V AD (S.C. ) 515

titled as Sahdev vs. Jaibar @ Jai Dev & Ors. can very well be applied

in the present case. The Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under:­­

 "The law regulates social interests, arbitrates conflicting

claims and demands. Security of persons and property of the people is an

essential function of the State. It could be achieved through

instrumentality of criminal law. Undoubtedly, there is a cross cultural

conflict where living law must find answer to the new challenges and the Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 5/12 courts are required to mould the sentencing system to meet the

challenges. The contagion of lawlessness would undermine social order

and lay it in ruins. Protection of society and stamping out criminal

proclivity must be the object of law which must be achieved by imposing

appropriate sentence. Therefore, law as a corner­stone of the edifice of

"order" should meet the challenges confronting the society. Friedman

in his "Law in Changing Society" stated that, "State of criminal law

continues to be­ as it should be­ a decisive reflection of social

consciousness of society". Therefore, in operating the sentencing system,

law should adopt the corrective machinery or the deterrence based on

factual matrix. By deft the modulation sentencing process be stern where

it should be, and tempered with mercy where it warrants to be. The facts

and given circumstances in each case, the nature of the crime, the

manner in which it was planned and committed, the motive for

commission of the crime, the conduct of the accused, the nature of

weapons used and all other attending circumstances are relevant facts

which would enter into the area of consideration. For instance a murder

committed due to deep­seated mutual and personal rivalry may not call

for penalty of death. But an organised crime or mass murders of

innocent people would call for imposition of death sentence as

deterrence. In Mahesh vs. State of MP (1987) 2 SCR 710), this court

while refusing to reduce the death sentence observed thus: Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 6/12 Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence

would do more harm to the justice system to undermine the public

confidence in the efficacy of law and society could not long endure under

such serious threats. It is, therefore, the duty of every court to award

proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the

manner in which it was executed or committed etc. This position was

illuminatingly stated by this court in Sevaka Perumal etc. vs. State of

Tamil Nadu (AIR 1991 SC 1463). The criminal law adheres in general to the principle of

proportionality in prescribing liability according to the culpability of

each kind of criminal conduct. It ordinarily allows some significant

discretion to the judge in arriving at a sentence in each case, presumably

to permit sentences that reflect more subtle considerations of culpability Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 7/12 that are raised by the special facts of each case. Judges in essence

affirm that punishment ought always to fit the crime; yet in practice

sentences are determined largely by other considerations. Sometimes it

is the correctional needs of the perpetrator that are offered to justify a

sentence. Sometimes the desirability of keeping him out of circulation,

and sometimes even the tragic results of his crime. Inevitably these

considerations cause a departure from just desert as the basis of

punishment and create cases of apparent injustice that are serious and

widespread. Proportion between crime and punishment is a goal respected

in principle, and in spite of errant notions, it remains a strong influence

in the determination of sentences. The practice of punishing all serious

crimes with equal severity is now unknown in civilized societies, but such

a radical departure from the principle of proportionality has

disappeared from the law only in recent times. Even now for a single

grave infraction drastic sentences are imposed. Anything less than a

penalty of greatest severity for any serious crime is thought then to be a

measure of toleration that is unwarranted an unwise. But in fact, quite

apart from those considerations that make punishment unjustifiable

when it is out of proportion to the crime, uniformly disproportionate

punishment has some very undesirable practical consequences. After giving due consideration to the facts and circumstances Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 8/12 of each case, for deciding just and appropriate sentence to be awarded

for an offence, the aggravating and mitigating factor and circumstances

in which a crime has been committed are to be delicately balanced on

the basis of really relevant circumstances in a dispassionate manner by

the Court. Such act of balancing is indeed a difficult task. It has been

very aptly indicated in Dennis Councle MCGDautha vs. State of

Callifornia: 402 US 183: 28 L.D. 2d 711 that no formula of a foolproof

nature is possible that would provide a reasonable criterion in

determining a just and appropriate punishment in the infinite variety of

circumstances that may affect the gravity of the crime. In the absence of

any foolproof formula which may provide any basis for reasonable

criteria to correctly assess various circumstances germane to the

consideration or gravity of crime, the discretionary judgement in the

facts of each case, is the only way in which such judgment may be

equitably distinguished". 9. Reliance is also placed upon 2009 IV AD (S.C.) 1 titled as State of Karnataka vs. Muralidhar where in Hon'ble Supreme Court

held as under:­­

 "The object should be to protect the society and to deter the

criminal in achieving the avowed object of law by imposing appropriate

sentence. It is expected that the courts would operate the sentencing

system so as to impose such sentence which reflects the conscience of the Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 9/12 society and the sentencing process has to be stern where it should be. Imposition of sentence without considering its effect on the

social order in may cases may be in reality a futile exercise. The social

impact of the crime, e.g. where it relates to offence against women,

dacoity, kidnapping, misappropriation of public money, treason and

other offence involving moral turpitude or moral delinquency which have

great impact on social order, and public interest, cannot be lost sight of

and per se require exemplary treatment. Any liberal attitude by

imposing meager sentences or taking too sympathetic view merely on

account of lapse of time in respect of such offences will be result­wise

counter productive in the long run and against societal interest which

needs to be cared for and strengthened by string of deterrence inbuilt in

the sentencing system. The court will be failing in its duty if appropriate punishment

is not awarded for a crime which has been committed not only against

the individual victim but also against the society to which the criminal

and victim belong. The punishment to be awarded for a crime must not

be irrelevant but it should conform to and be consistent with the atrocity

and brutality with which the crime has been perpetrated, the enormity of

crime warranting public abhorrence and it should "respond to the

society's cry for justice against the criminal". 10. Now coming to the merits of the case, ld. trial court has Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 10/12 rightly observed that magnitude and impact of offence committed by the

convicts on the society was so adverse that the trust of a common man in

the administration was completely shaken. There remains no doubt that it

is one of the most heinous crimes of the history. Due to scam the trust of

the common man in the administration was completely shaken. Fake

stamps worth hundreds of crores were got printed and sold to the

innocent customer as genuine stamps in a pre­planned and organized

manner and therefore no undue sympathy can be shown to the appellant

as it may result in common man loss of faith and trust in the criminal

justice administration system also. It will further give rise to a premium

on the offence as instead of a deterrent, image it will create in the mind

of common man will be that after committing a fraud of such a great

magnitude, a person can get free after spending some time in jail after

pleading guilty and paying nominal fine. 11. One of the co­accused in the present case namely Mohd. Asif

also moved an appeal against the order of this court wherein this court

dismissed his appeal for setting aside order of conviction and order of

sentence and the appeal against that oder also stands dismissed vide Crl.

Rev.P. No. 134/2010 dated 22.3.2010. There is nothing on record that

the said order has been set aside by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and in

such circumstances, the order of Hon'ble High Court has become final

and binding upon this court. Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 11/12 12. The sentence awarded by the ld. trial court does not call for

any interference. There is no infirmity or illegality in the same. The

order of trial court is upheld. The appeal filed by the appellant is

dismissed. There shall be no order as to cost. Trial court record

alongwith a copy of this order be sent back. A copy of this order be also

sent to concerned jail superintendent. Appeal file be consigned to record

room. (MADHU JAIN)

 ASJ­01/NORTH/DELHI

Announced in the open court today i.e. 27.10.2010. Crl.Appl.No. 43/2010 12/12