SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Gynaecomastia surgery
DATE: 2018-10-11
SCORE: 27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/9n7bxj/gynaecomastia_surgery/

--- POST TEXT ---

I'm a 25 year old male, 5'10 and 68 kgs. 
I'm not sure if this is the appropriate subreddit for it, but I'm in desperate need of advice, so please help me out. 

I have a condition called gynaecomastia - which is essentially female glandular breast tissue in male chest, resulting in really awkward looking puffy nipples and huge tits. And gawd it's so embarrassing.

It has completely ruined my social life since past 6-7 years. I pretty much just sit in my home in front of my laptop and it only makes me fatter. Whenever I go out I wear huge shirts - but they hardly help. And literally every single 'friend' of mine makes fun of me. I've been groped multiple times in public places. It's just driving me insane - 
I don't know how to describe it.

And yes, I've been to the gym, in fact I've lost 12 kgs in past 3 months, became thinner in pretty much every part of my body - except of course my tits. They're as big as they used to be before gymming. No difference at all. 

I need to have gyno surgery to remove the breast tissue. But I'm worried about finding a good surgeon for it. I've heard that in some cases if the surgeon isn't good enough, the nipple gets excessively retracted. Sometimes the scar following surgery looks huge and ugly and doesn't heal properly - and I don't want those kind of complications to happen. 

I've looked up surgeons on practo and justdial and few other such websites, but they seem so fake to me - there are doctors with 1000 reviews and a rating of 4.9 - i mean it's impossible for a surgeon however good he is to have such a high rating right? The language of the reviews seems so fake too.

So any redditors who have had gyno surgery, or know people who have had the surgery - how was your experience? Can you recommend any surgeons or hospitals? How was your post-operative results? Preferably recommend surgeons in Hyderabad if possible.

Would be grateful for your advice.