OPG Securities Pvt. Ltd. LGF-27, C Block,
 Sushant Shopping Arcade,
 Sushant Lok, Gurgaon,
 Haryana Pin Code - 122002. 2. Mr. Sanjay Gupta 3. Ms. Sangeeta Gupta 4. Mr. Om Prakash Gupta
 4/10, 1st Floor,
 Asaf Ali Road,
 New Delhi - 110002. ...Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C-4A,
G Block, Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Mumbai - 400051. ...Respondent 3 Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Ravichandra
Hegde and Ms. Mitravinda Chunduru, Advocate i/b.
Parinam Law Associates for the Appellant.

Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior Advocate with Dr. Poornima
Advani, Mr. Manish Chhangani, Mr. Ravishekhar Pandey,
Ms. Prerna Sharma and Ms. Samreen Fatima, Advocates i/b.
The Law Point for the Respondent. With
 Misc. Application No.250 of 2019
 And Appeal No.331 of 2019 Mr. Ravi Narain
B-3, Diwan Shree Apartments,
30-, Firoz Shah Road,
New Delhi - 110001. ...Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
Plot No.C-4A, G Block,
Near Bank of India,
Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra East, ...Respondent
Mumbai - 400051. Mr. Pesi Modi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Neville Lashkari,
Mr. Rashid Boatwalla, Mr. Aditya Vyas and Mr. Dhruv
Jadhav, Advocates i/b. MKA & Co. for the Appellant.

Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior Advocate with Dr. Poornima
Advani, Mr. Manish Chhangani, Mr. Ravishekhar Pandey, 4 Ms. Prerna Sharma and Ms. Samreen Fatima, Advocates i/b.
The Law Point for the Respondent. Mr. Nithyaesh Natrajan, Advocate for the Intervener. With
 Misc. Application No.298 of 2019
 And Appeal No.336 of 2019 Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna
201, Laxmi Habitat,
7th Cross Raod,
Chembur - 400 071. ...Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhawan, Plot No.C-4A,
G Block, Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Mumbai. ...Respondent

Mr. Prashant S. Pratap, Senior Advocate with Mr. Piyush
Raheja and Ms. S. Priya, Advocates for the Appellant.

Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior Advocate with Dr. Poornima
Advani, Mr. Manish Chhangani, Mr. Ravishekhar Pandey,
Ms. Prerna Sharma and Ms. Samreen Fatima, Advocates i/b.
The Law Point for the Respondent. Mr. Nithyaesh Natrajan, Advocate for the Intervener. With 5 Appeal No.433 of 2019 Mr. A. Kumar
4/131, 7th Main Road,
Valmiki Nagar, Swamnathan Nagar,
Chennai-600 041, Tamil Nadu. ...Appellant

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
Plot No.C-4A, G Block,
BKC, Bandra (East),
Mumbai -400051, India. ...Respondent

Mr. Nithyaesh Natrajan, Advocate for the Appellant.

Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior Advocate with Dr. Poornima
Advani, Mr. Manish Chhangani, Mr. Ravishekhar Pandey,
Ms. Prerna Sharma and Ms. Samreen Fatima, Advocates i/b.
The Law Point for the Respondent. CORAM: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Justice M.T. Joshi, Judicial Member

Per: Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. The Whole Time Member („WTM‟ for short) passed

 an order dated 30th April, 2019 directing: 6 2. Out of 17 noticees, 14 of them were discharged and

 three noticees, NSE, Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna have been indicted. 3. Against the aforesaid order of the WTM dated 30th

 April, 2019, four appeals have been filed, namely, Appeal

 nos.333 of 2019 NSE vs. SEBI , Appeal no.331 of 2019 9 Mr. Ravi Narain vs. SEBI , Appeal no.336 of 2019 Ms.

 Chitra Ramkrishna vs. SEBI and Appeal no.433 of 2019 Mr. A. Kumar vs. SEBI , has not only filed intervention

 application in the above appeals but has also filed a

 separate Appeal No.433 of 2019. In addition to the above, the WTM has passed another

 order dated 30th April, 2019 prohibiting OPG Securities

 Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as „OPG‟) and other

 noticees from accessing the securities market for a period

 of five years and restraining OPG from taking any new

 clients for a period of one year. The WTM further

 directed OPG and its Directors to disgorge jointly and

 severally a sum of Rs.15.57 crores alongwith interest at

 the rate of 12% p.a. w.e.f. 7th April, 2014 onwards.

 Against the order of 30th April, 2019, OPG has filed

 Appeal no.184 of 2019. 4. Since the aforesaid two orders are based on the same

 show cause notice and the issues are common as well as 10 interlinked, as such all the appeals are being decided

 together. 5. We have heard Mr. Darius Khambata, Senior

 Advocate assisted by Mr. Somasekhar Sundaresan, Mr.

 Abishek Venkataraman, Ms. Sonali Mathur, Mr. Prabhav

 Shroff and Mr. Harshit Jaiswal, Advocates for the

 appellant in appeal no.333 of 2019, Mr. Gaurav Joshi,

 Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Ravichandra Hegde and

 Ms. Mitravinda Chunduru, Advocates for the appellant in

 appeal no.184 of 2019, Mr. Pesi Modi, Senior Advocate

 assisted by Mr. Neville Lashkari, Mr. Rashid Boatwalla,

 Mr. Aditya Vyas and Mr. Dhruv Jadhav, Advocates for

 the appellant in appeal no.331 of 2019, Mr. Prashant S.

 Pratap, Senior Advocate assisted by Mr. Piyush Raheja

 and Ms. S. Priya, Advocates for the appellant in appeal

 no.336 of 2019 and Mr. Nithyaesh Natrajan, Advocate in

 appeal no.433 of 2019 and Mr. Rafique Dada, Senior

 Advocate assisted by Dr. Poornima Advani, Mr. Manish 11 Chhangani, Mr. Ravishekhar Pandey, Ms. Prerna Sharma

 and Ms. Samreen Fatima, Advocates the respondent and

 Mr. Nithyaesh Natrajan, Advocate for the Intervener in

 appeal nos.333 of 2019, 331 of 2019 and 336 of 2019. 6. Before we deal with the rival submissions of the

 parties, it is necessary to deal with the intervention

 application and the appeal filed by Mr. A. Kumar. Mr.

 A. Kumar is an advocate practicing in the Madras High

 Court and has filed an appeal praying that the order of the

 WTM dated 30th April, 2019 be set aside and that the

 respondents should be directed to undertake a

 comprehensive investigation into the NSE Colocation

 scam and initiate appropriate proceedings against the

 NSE management who intentionally did not cooperate

 and provided false and misleading information to the

 Technical Advisory Committee (hereinafter referred to as

 „TAC‟) and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLP (hereinafter

 referred to as „Deloitte‟) and to take appropriate 12 proceedings against the directors, principal officers, key

 managerial persons of NSE and further pass appropriate

 orders for disgorgement under Section 11B. The

 appellant prayed for other directions which are spelt out

 in the memo of appeal. In addition to the aforesaid, the

 appellant has also filed an intervention application in the

 appeals filed by NSE, Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna praying that he may be allowed to intervene

 and be impleaded as a party in the appeals. 7. The contention of Mr. A. Kumar is, that being

 aggrieved by the impugned order he filed a complaint

 dated 6th July, 2019 before SEBI complaining about the

 NSE Colocation scandal. According to him, the scandal

 runs into Rs.50,000 crores which has tarnished the

 reputation of the major market infrastructure institution

 and severely dented the integrity of the securities market.

 As a result of the scam, millions of investors have

 incurred huge losses due to delayed dissemination of the 13 „Tick-By-Tick‟ (hereinafter referred to as TBT)‟ data. It

 was contended that in the Colocation scam the NSE had

 violated the fundamental objective of ensuring equal

 access to all market participants and that certain TMs

 with vested interests were given preferential access to the

 data. It was alleged that certain TMs with prior access to

 the data indulged in front running and abused the market

 and committed fraud not only to the detriment of the

 securities market but also to the whole nation. It was

 alleged that no action was taken by SEBI on the

 complaint letter filed by appellant and, therefore, he filed

 a writ petition before the Madras High Court in which he

 prayed for a direction to SEBI to decide his

 representation and reinvestigate the matter. This writ

 petition is still pending. 8. It was urged that during the time of Mr. Ravi Narain,

 NSE had launched its Colocation facility in January, 2010

 which was unauthorized and did not have approval from 14 SEBI and, therefore, such unauthorized activity was

 wholly illegal which SEBI should investigate. It was

 alleged that selected brokers were allowed to misuse the

 Colocation facility by giving them advantage over other

 market participants. It was alleged that the role of Mr.

 Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna should be

 investigated. It was contended that Omnesys

 Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as

 „Omnesys‟) provided technology for trading on NSE. It

 was alleged that Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna was also a

 Director of Omnesys and was also the MD & CEO of

 NSE and, therefore, there was a clear conflict of interest

 and, therefore, investigation should also be made by SEBI

 with regard to the role of the IT Company which had a

 business relationship with NSE. 9. It was also alleged that Mr. Sanjay Gupta, owner and

 promoter of OPG abused the TBT architecture in

 connivance with the officials of NSE on the basis of 15 which it allowed OPG to be the first one to log in the

 exchange server of NSE and, which resulted in unlawful

 gain to OPG and loss to other brokers. It was also alleged

 that Mr. Ajay Shah alongwith his wife Ms. Susan Thomas

 had collected NSE trade data which was subsequently

 passed on to private unknown persons and was used to

 develop algo software called „Chanakya‟. It was alleged

 that this software was sold to brokers including OPG,

 who in turn benefitted it by exploiting the TBT

 architecture of NSE. 10. It was also urged that SEBI should also examine the

 relationship of Ms. Susan Thomas‟ sister with former

 Head of Surveillance, NSE and the role played by Ms.

 Susan Thomas and Mr. Ajay Shah. It was also alleged

 that OPG had various vested interest and had some

 connection with Mr. Ajay Shah and all these facts were

 available with SEBI which forms part of the appellant‟s

 representation as well as the writ petition. It was, thus, 16 urged that directions should be issued to SEBI to conduct

 a fresh comprehensive investigation into the Colo scam

 and the impugned order should be set aside. Similar

 relief was claimed in the intervention application. 11. In addition to the above, it was contended that when

 NSE was involved in the Colo scam it was inappropriate

 for SEBI to direct NSE to conduct an investigation. It

 was contended that SEBI should have conducted its own

 investigation instead of outsourcing the investigation to

 NSE. It was also urged that the TAC report as well as the

 Deloitte report gave a categorical finding regarding non-

 cooperation by NSE inspite of which no action was taken

 by SEBI under Section 11C of the SEBI Act and,

 therefore, suitable directions should be given by this

 Tribunal. It was also contended that the TAC report and

 Deloitte report made scathing observations against NSE

 regarding manipulation of the TBT architecture on

 account of which select brokers benefitted. Further, 17 preferential treatment was given to OPG in connivance

 with certain staff of NSE. It was also contended that the

 WTM committed an error in giving a finding that

 violation of PFUTP Regulations have not been proved. It

 was contended that PFUTP Regulations is applicable in

 the present case. The circumstantial evidence and

 inference can be drawn to invoke the PFUTP Regulations

 and if the said Regulations are applied it would clearly

 reveal that there was a devious ploy to hide and suppress

 material facts, which was a ground by itself to invoke the

 PFUTP Regulations against NSE. It was further urged

 that SEBI should be directed to exercise its powers under Section 24 of the SEBI Act and launch criminal

 prosecution against the erring officers. 12. It was also urged that misuse of secondary server by

 unscrupulous brokers manipulated the market as a result

 of which the purity and sanctity of the securities market

 was compromised. It was urged that the economic fraud 18 of this magnitude and nature deserves no leniency or

 sympathy and that the wrong doers must be punished by

 this Tribunal. It was also urged that the WTM has passed

 two contradictory orders, namely, the order passed in

 NSE matter and in OPG matter. On account of these

 contradictions and inconsistency in the two impugned

 orders, it was urged that the two impugned orders should

 be set aside and a fresh direction should be issued to

 SEBI to reinvestigate the matter and pass fresh orders

 thereafter. It was, thus, contended that the appellant

 should be permitted to interfere and should be impleaded

 as a party. 13. The appeal and the intervention application was

 vehemently opposed by the appellants contending that the

 interveners are not necessary parties nor are interested

 parties and are unnecessarily poking their nose in which

 they have no stake in the matter. The respondent urged

 that Mr. A. Kumar has no locus standi to file the 19 intervention application or to file an appeal as he is not a

 person aggrieved under Section 15T of the SEBI Act.

 The applicant Mr. A. Kumar is neither a proper or a

 necessary party for adjudication in the appeal and,

 consequently, has no locus standi to file the appeal. 14. Insofar as SEBI is concerned, it was urged that they

 would abide by the decision of this Tribunal and in the

 event the Tribunal directs reinvestigation in the matter

 they would comply with the said directions. 15. Considering the submissions made by the parties, we

 are of the opinion that Mr. A. Kumar is neither a

 necessary party nor is an interested party. 16. Section 15T of the SEBI Act provides as under: [***]

(3) Every appeal under sub-section (1) shall be
filed within a period of forty-five days from the
date on which a copy of the order made by the
Board or the adjudicating officer or the
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
or the Pension Fund Regulatory and
Development Authority, as the case may be, is
received by him and it shall be in such form and
be accompanied by such fee as may be
prescribed: 17. A perusal of the aforesaid provisions indicates that

 any person aggrieved by an order of the Board may prefer

 an appeal to the Tribunal. Admittedly, the appellant is an

 advocate practicing in the Madras High Court. The

 impugned order does not affect him in any way nor is he

 concerned with the securities market. Nothing has been

 stated as to how the appellant is aggrieved by any finding

 of the WTM in the impugned order. Shri A. Kumar has 22 not produced any new material or evidence which would

 necessitate an intervention by the applicant in the present

 appeal. Mr. A. Kumar admittedly had not availed any

 Colocation service and, therefore, he is not an aggrieved

 person as an investor or user of NSE services. The

 applicant has no connection with NSE nor is otherwise

 interested in the functioning of NSE and, therefore, we

 are of the opinion that the applicant Mr. A. Kumar is not

 aggrieved by any action of NSE let alone Colocation

 facilities. 18. A perusal of the memo of appeal and the intervention

 application indicates that he is espousing a public cause,

 namely, to ensure that the market is transparent, fair and

 equal access is given to all participants. In this regard,

 the applicant has already made a complaint to SEBI

 which is pending consideration and has also filed a writ

 petition before the Madras High Court seeking a direction

 to SEBI to pass appropriate orders on his complaint. The 23 complaint and the writ petition filed before the Madras

 High Court by Mr. A. Kumar is in the nature of a public

 interest litigation. Since the ground raised in the memo

 of appeal and in the intervention application are pending

 consideration before the Madras High Court which

 directions has been sought to SEBI to decide its

 representation, it is not open to Mr. A. Kumar to make the

 same prayer before this Tribunal. Once the appellant has

 chosen a particular forum for redressal of his grievance it

 is no longer open to the applicant Mr. A. Kumar to

 choose another forum. 19. In any case, since the impugned order does not affect

 the interest of the appellant, we are of the opinion that the

 applicant is not a person aggrieved and is therefore

 neither a proper or a necessary party. 20. Further, the contention raised in the memo of appeal

 directing SEBI to conduct certain investigation cannot be

 taken into consideration for the purpose of deciding the 24 present appeal. We are of the opinion that the applicant

 Mr. A. Kumar has no locus standi to file an appeal or to

 intervene as he is not a necessary or an interested party

 and even though we had heard the applicant at length the

 intervention application cannot be entertained. We are of

 the opinion that the intervener has no locus to intervene

 as he is not a necessary or interested party. Accordingly,

 the appeal and the intervention applications filed by Mr.

 A. Kumar are rejected. 21. On April 3, 2008, Securities and Exchange Board of

 India (hereinafter referred to as „SEBI‟) allowed Direct

 Market Access („DMA‟ for short) facility which allowed

 clients to access the market directly i.e. without human

 intervention, using the software of a trading member and

 routing the orders through the trading member‟s

 infrastructure. This paved the way for algorithmic („algo‟

 for short) trading where the decisions on the trades are

 executed by computer software. The orders are executed 25 using automated preprogrammed trading instructions. The

 absence of human intervention steps up the frequency and

 the speed of the reactions to market movements, and is

 called "High Frequency Trading" („HFT‟ for short), using

 algorithms in trading. 22. Co-location services i.e. (Colo) is a facility

 provided by Stock Exchanges across the globe for all

 trading members for a reasonable fee. Interested member-

 brokers who are engaged in HFT, can avail Colo facility.

 Access to Colo is fairly and equitably available to all

 member-brokers. In HFT, faster access to data and price

 feed helps in swifter execution of a trade (which results in

 a high daily turnover and high order-to-trade ratio). When

 a member-broker avails Colo, trading or data vending

 systems of the broker are allowed to be "co-located" i.e.

 physically located within the very premises of the stock

 exchange. 23. In 2009-10, in line with international best practices,

 NSE decided to provide its Colo facility. This service was

 available to any desirous member-broker, for a fee. The

 member-broker would rent a physical rack space within

 the Colo facility in the premises of NSE, and place their

 servers therein. 24. The technology for dissemination of data in the

 Colo facility is through the „Tick-By-Tick (TBT)‟

 mechanism. TBT comprises dissemination of „ticks‟. A

 „tick‟ is a fundamental unit of data dissemination in the

 TBT architecture. In other words, ticks comprise order

 entries, order modifications, order cancellations, trades

 arising from the orders, and every other piece of data

 related to the market, on a real-time basis. The

 dissemination of such data builds for the trading

 members, their order book (the list of orders that indicates

 the interest of buyers and sellers in a particular security at

 any point of time). 25. The ticks have to be received by the computer

 system of the member-broker, for the order book to get

 compiled and is made available to the trading system of

 the member to enable him to trade. 26. TBT data feed result in members receiving every

 single tick, and thereby compiles the order book. If one

 tick is lost, the entire order book would be out of sync

 with that of the exchange, and members could suffer huge

 losses with the data integrity not being completely

 assured. 27. Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol

 („TCP/IP‟ for short) has an inbuilt flag system that

 acknowledges the receipt of each single TBT data packet

 at the receiving end, and even identifies lost ticks. If

 even one packet of data is lost, the network itself attempts

 to recoup the lost data packet, and transmit it again. It

 therefore ensures the integrity of market data and safe

 delivery of all ticks to the member. 28. On account of the growth of the Colo facility and an

 increase in its demand, in 2013, NSE reviewed the TBT

 architecture and planned the introduction of Multi-cast

 Tick-By-Tick („MTBT‟ for short) because MTBT could

 handle higher volumes and users, more efficiently. 29. Thus, in keeping with the development of technology

 and the advancement of the market, NSE began

 upgrading its system architecture to MTBT in April 2014.

 The architecture was migrated from the TCP/IP-based

 TBT system architecture to the MTBT system, in a

 phased transition, and with effect from December 3, 2016

 it had completely migrated to the MTBT architecture. In

 the intervening period, NSE continued to provide TCP/IP

 TBT feed as well while the market adapted to MTBT.

 Thereafter, from December 2016, NSE discontinued the

 TCP/IP feed, which, since then, is been used as a back-up

 owing to the integrity of dissemination and receipt

 assured by MTBT. Brief description of the TCP/IP TBT System Architecture 30. NSE operates independent trading systems which

 match, buy and sell orders to discover price. From the

 trading system of the exchange, data is communicated/

 disseminated to the members availing the Colo facility

 using the TCP/IP TBT system architecture in the nature

 of ticks. As stated above, each tick denotes a change in

 the order book i.e. order entries, order modifications,

 order cancellations, trades, and other data related to the

 market that can change the order book as they happen.

 The member-brokers‟ trading systems which are co-

 located in the exchange premises connect to the Ports (as

 defined hereinafter) through IPs, for the receipt of

 disseminated data from NSE‟s trading systems. 31. A diagrammatic representation of the TCP/IP system

 architecture in the Cash Market segment, with the

 Secondary Server shown as „POP 4 Receiver‟ in the

 diagram, is produced herein below for easy reference: 30 32. The first part or tier of the TCP/IP architecture is the

 Primary Data Source („PDC‟) which is connected to the

 trading system and receives the TBT data from the

 trading system. The „Epsilon script‟ (a type of software)

 automatically starts the TBT application in the PDC as

 the first step. 33. The three Receivers i.e. Receiver 1, Receiver 2 and

 Receiver 3 receives the information which comes from

 the trading system. The information which is received in

 these three Receivers is received randomly and not in a

 chronological order that is to say „Tick 1‟ which is sent

 from trading system may be received by „Receiver 1‟

 whereas „Tick 2‟ may be received by „Receiver 2‟ and

 „Tick 3‟ may be received by „Receiver 3‟ and „Tick 4‟

 may be received by „Receiver 4‟. The aforesaid

 information from three Receivers percolates to the

 "Sequencer" which sequences this information in the 32 order of the "Ticks". Thereafter, the information goes to

 the "Processor". The "Receivers", the "Sequencer" and

 the "Processor" together makes the „PDC‟.

 Pop Servers 34. From the Processor, the information goes to the

 "Point of Presence Servers" (POP Servers) which is the

 second layer of dissemination of the tick. A POP Server

 comprises of a POP Receiver and three POP Senders.

 The POP Receiver receives the data from the PDC and

 sends it to the POP Server. The order of dissemination

 from PDC to POP Servers during any given day was

 sequential in nature, and depended on the order in which

 the POP Servers got connected to the PDC in the morning

 for the first time. All the POP Servers starts

 automatically almost at the same time using the Epsilon

 script, after the PDC is started. However, the order in

 which the POP Servers actually connect to the PDC

 varies due to random variations in the TBT application 33 start up time within each POP Server. The information

 that goes to the POP servers from the Processor is in a

 sequence, namely, that the information is received in POP

 Receiver 1, then POP Receiver 2 and then POP Receiver

 3 and then POP Receiver 4 which is the secondary server.

 According to SEBI, the sequence in which the POP

 Receivers receives the information is dependent on which

 POP Receiver is switched on first manually.

 Ports 35. From the POP server, the information is transmitted

 to the three Ports. Every POP Server also has three POP

 Senders, also known as „Ports‟. Data which is received

 by the POP Receiver is in turn, disseminated onwards

 through the „Ports‟ to the servers of member-brokers

 sitting on the Colo-rack. 36. Each trading member is connected to a particular Port

 and cannot shift without the express permission of NSE.

 Member-brokers were allotted specific ports & IP 34 addresses on the POP Servers, and could only access the

 POP server through their respectively assigned IP address

 and port. Member-brokers were also given access to the

 secondary server. 37. The information is transmitted out of the Port on the

 basis of „first connection‟ and the order of dissemination

 remains the same throughout the day in the same

 chronology. Secondary Server 38. The term "Secondary Server" is a nomenclature used

 for an additional/alternate/backup POP Server provided

 by NSE. The secondary server was meant to act as a

 back-up server in the event of a primary POP Server

 failure in which case the Secondary Server would allow

 continuous access without disruption to the TBT market

 feed. Each trading member was also given an IP address

 for connecting to the Secondary Server, and it was

 expected and indeed instructed that members must only 35 connect to the Secondary Server only when they were

 unable to connect to the primary POP Servers. The

 purpose was to ensure that trading members could easily

 connect to the Secondary Server in case of primary POP

 Server failure. 39. Much after the „TBT architecture‟ was upgraded to

 MTBT in April, 2014 which system was adopted in a

 phased transition, and entirely with effect from December

 3, 2016 that SEBI received certain complaints dated

 January 8, 2015, August 10, 2015 and October 3, 2015

 from Mr. Ken Fong against NSE with regard to its Co-

 location facilities alleging: 40. Upon receipt of the complaint, SEBI constituted a

 Cross Functional Team („CFT‟ for short) to conduct a

 preliminary fact finding on the veracity of the complaints.

 A report dated 30th November, 2015 was submitted by

 CFT to the Technical Advisory Committee („TAC‟ for

 short). On examination of the preliminary report of the

 CFT, TAC recommended that a detailed analysis be

 carried out by an Expert Committee. The

 recommendation of the TAC was accepted by SEBI and

 an Expert Committee was constituted which submitted its

 report on 2nd March, 2016 contending that: 41. The findings of the Expert Committee alongwith

 TAC report was forwarded to NSE who in response

 refuted the findings of the Expert Committee. The TAC

 considered the response of NSE and issued directions

 dated September 9, 2016 directing NSE to initiate an

 independent enquiry including forensic investigation by

 an external agency as highlighted in the Expert

 Committee‟s report including lack of processes and

 collusion, if any, and fix accountability for the aforesaid

 breaches covering NSE and stock brokers, vendors and

 outsourced entities who were involved allegedly in the

 issue. Directions were also issued to complete the

 investigation within three months. 42. Based on the aforesaid, NSE appointed Deloitte

 Touche Tohmatsu India LLP („Deloitte‟) to conduct the 41 forensic investigation. Deloitte submitted its report on

 December 23, 2016 making the following observations: 43. Subsequently, vide letter dated 28th February, 2017,

 SEBI advised NSE to undertake a forensic audit in the

 Cash Market („CM‟) segment, Currency Derivatives 42 („CD‟) segment and Interest Rate Futures („IRF‟)

segment for the period 2010-15 and to examine the

benefits/profits made by the TMs through the TBT

mechanism. Based on the directions, NSE appointed

M/s. Ernst & Young LLP (hereinafter referred to as „EY‟)

to carry out forensic audit of CM, CD and IRF segments.

NSE also appointed Indian School of Business („ISB‟) to

undertake examination to estimate the benefits/ profits to

the TMs who logged in first. EY submitted its report on

May 18, 2018 and ISB submitted its report on November

14, 2017. TAC after considering the EY report

recommended: 44. In this manner, seven reports were furnished by

 various agencies over a period of time, namely, the CFT

 report in November 30, 2015, the TAC Expert Committee

 report in March 2, 2016, Deloitte report dated December, 44 2016, ISB report in November, 2017, EY report dated

 May 18, 2018 in CM segment, EY report dated June,

 2018 in CD segment and IRF and Deloitte report dated

 July, 2018 with regard to first/early connect and

 connection to secondary server. 45. Based on the findings of the TAC report and Deloitte

 report, a show cause notice dated May 22, 2017 was

 issued to 15 noticees. The show cause notice mainly

 contained allegations regarding: 46. Subsequently, issue relating to access to Non-ISPs for

 laying of Dark fiber within the exchange premises was

 split into different show cause notices in 2018. One set of

 show cause notice was issued on July 3, 2018.

 Supplementary show cause notice was issued on July 31,

 2018 and, in this way, notices initially issued to 15

 noticees increased to 17 noticees. 47. Summary of allegations contained in 2017 show cause

 notice, 2018 show cause notice and supplementary show

 cause notice are as under: f. There were allegedly no policies and procedures for

 allocation/mapping of the IPs of members to the

 dissemination servers, nor was there a Standard

 Operating Procedure („SOP‟) to deal with requests

 for change in IP mapping to a particular server. Such

 requests were left to the discretion of the NSE's

 Project Support and Management ("PSM") Team, 48 which has shown differential treatment / responses

 to members for such requests; g. The Noticee has allegedly violated the provisions of Section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation),

 Act 1956 ("SCRA"), by failing to fulfil its main

 object of ensuring fair dealing; h. The Noticee has allegedly failed to comply with

 Regulation 48 of the Securities Contracts

 (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing

 Corporations) Regulations, 2012 ("SECC

 Regulations") in view of its alleged failure to

 cooperate with SEBI, the SEBI External Committee

 appointed by SEBI, and the forensic auditor

 appointed by the Noticee on SEBI's direction, and to

 provide requisite information as sought by SEBI;

 and

i. The Noticee has allegedly failed to comply with

 Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations by 49 giving preferential access to certain trading

 members. 48. In addition to the above, 2018 show cause notice

 alleged

 a. NSE failed to comply with Regulation 42(2) of the

 SECC Regulations and Clause 3 of SEBI circular

 CIR/MRD/DP/07/2015 dated May 13, 2015 by

 failing to ensure fair, transparent and equitable

 access to all trading members in respect of the co-

 location facility; b. NSE failed to comply with clause 4(i) of SEBI

 circular CIR/MRD/DP/09/2012 dated March 30,

 2012 by failing to have adequate controls and

 policies in respect of the Co-location facility,

 thereby making the system prone to manipulation;

 and

 c. NSE and its employees allegedly violated Section

 12A(a) , (b) and (c) of the Securities and Exchange 50 Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as

 „ SEBI Act ‟), Regulations 3(a), 3(b), 3(c), 3(d) and

 4(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

 (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade

 Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations,

 2003 (hereinafter referred to as „PFUTP

 Regulations‟) by colluding with OPG to provide

 preferential access to OPG, and thereby indulged in

 fraudulent and unfair trade practices.

d. It was alleged that OPG was constantly logging in

 across servers and OPG was aware of the weakness

 of the system architecture and the advantage of

 having first access in terms of trade. Further, OPG

 had designed the software in such a way that OPF

 could connect first and gain advantage.

e. It was also alleged that by assigning multiple IPs to

 OPG to a single Port by NSE allowed crowding by

 OPG enabling OPG to establish first, second, third 51 and even fourth connection to the server and thereby

 in this regard OPG gained advantage over other

 stock brokers and, therefore, alleged NSE has acted

 in a fraudulent manner and had indulged in fraud

 and unfair trade practices in the securities market.

 f. It was further alleged that the manner in which OPG

 gained preferential access day after day on select

 servers indicate complete laxity and dereliction of

 duty on the part of NSE officials and employees and

 failed to prevent manipulation of the system and

 failed to ensure equal, fair and transparent access. It

 was alleged that by not taking preventive as well as

 curative measures proactively Mr. Ravi Narain and

 Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna facilitated fraud and

 manipulation by OPG. 49. The supplementary show cause notice further alleged

 a. that NSE gave inconsistent replies to Deloitte with

 respect to the identification of Primary and 52 Secondary Servers and the data relating to the same;

 and

 b. that in view of absence of proper documentation and

 recording, NSE and its officials had given varied

 response. 50. Based on the above, the WTM framed the following

 issues: 51. Before we proceed to consider the issues on merit as

 framed by the WTM, we feel it necessary to look into the

 choice of the architecture selected by NSE. 52. From the documents/evidence that has come on

 record, we cull out the following, namely, 53. At the time of launching of the Colo facility there were

 two kinds of technology available for implementing the

 TBT system, namely, (i) Transmission Control

 Protocol/Internet Protocol („TCP/IP‟) and (ii) Multi-cast

 TBT („MTBT‟). NSE made a bona fide choice of using

 the TCP/IP protocol for its TBT architecture, for sound

 and valid reasons, as explained in detail below. 54. The Colo facility was being introduced for the first

 time. It was critical to lay a sound foundation. Choices of

 technology were primarily driven by the need to have

 complete and fully assured high integrity of

 dissemination and receipt of the ticks. TCP/IP was seen

 as an appropriate choice of technology for a nascent 54 market. At the relevant time, the F&O segment volume

 was only 3,000 to 5,000 messages/ second, which TCP/IP

 could effectively handle, while even guaranteeing

 absolute market safety and integrity. 55. On the other hand, MTBT is akin to a broadcast, and

 can simultaneously transmit large volumes of data to a

 large number of persons, with the potential downside of

 loss of some data packets. In MTBT, delivery of data is

 on a „best effort‟ basis, i.e., the network does not

 guarantee or confirm data delivery, and this can result in

 loss of packets or the sequence in which packets are

 delivered. In MTBT, the onus of ensuring the receipt of

 data packets is on the members (and not the system),

 wherein members‟ infrastructure would have to be more

 sophisticated as opposed to in the TCP/IP system. 56. At the relevant time, TCP/IP technology was the

 standard protocol that the market was familiar with. On 55 the other hand, MTBT was a more complex technology,

 and its implementation needed extensive programming. 57. At the relevant time, TCP/IP was used by exchanges

 across the world (such as Chi-XJapan, BATS, NYSE

 LIFFE and NSE). 58. Therefore, the MTBT architecture was not chosen

 simply because it would not provide assurance of every

 single tick disseminated actually being received. It is

 pertinent to note that a key element of the MTBT system

 was that it could handle large volumes of data (several

 tens of thousands of ticks per second), which at a

 fledgling/nascent stage was considered less important

 than assuring integrity of data receipt. 59. Additionally, there was no regulatory guidance issued

 by SEBI as to what technology should be adopted. We

 find that SEBI has not raised any issue with regard to the

 choice of the TBT architecture over MTBT architecture.

 No fault has been found either by SEBI or in any of the 56 forensic report with regard to the choice of the

 architecture. Issue No.1 60. Whether TCP-IP architecture for TBT data feed

 provided a fair and equitable access to all TM. This issue

 has been further sub-divided into: 61. The show cause notice is based on the TAC report,

 Deloitte report and EY report, alleging that the

 dissemination of the data form a Port to its members is

 sequential based on their login ranks on a Port.

 Therefore, it is alleged that a member who connects first

 to a particular Port will receive TBT data first before all

 other members connecting to that Port on that server.

 The expression "first connect/early login" has been 57 analysed from two levels, i.e., number of first connects

 across POP server and number of first connects on the

 POP server which was connected first to the PDC. 62. It was further alleged that data was disseminated to

 the members in a sequential manner whereby the member

 who connected first to the POP server received the ticks

 before the members who connected later. It was, thus,

 alleged that a member who received the first tick would

 have an advantage by early login into the system. 63. It was, thus, alleged that the TBT architecture was

 prone to manipulation in the absence of automation,

 random function at POP servers and load balancers, as

 well as allocation to servers with fewer occupants giving

 them an added advantage. 64. The above charge was denied vehemently. It was

 contended that the TCP/IP architecture was not prone to

 manipulation. The sequential dissemination of TBT data

 did not offer any advantage to the members who logged 58 in first nor there is anything on record to support as to

 what advantage was conferred to the members logging in

 first nor any analysis has been done on this aspect. It was

 also urged that the architecture had an inbuilt randomizer

 in the dissemination of the data and that no member could

 be sure of receiving TBT data earlier than others even if

 they connect first to the POP server since it could not be

 ascertained whether their particular POP server was

 connected first. Further, each POP server had three Ports

 and, therefore, members could not be sure which data

 disseminated first on a particular Port. 65. The WTM after weighing the evidence: d. There was no mechanism to shuffle the order of

 ranking of a TM in front of a Port in which he has

 logged in first and, thus, that TM gained an

 advantage as the first connect against other TMs

 who logged in late. e. A software script known as Epsilon was used to start

 the TBT application every morning. The POP

 servers connect randomly depending upon the time

 sequence in which the TBT application processes

 get started in each server. Therefore, POP servers

 get connected to the PDC in a random manner.

 There is some randomness in the sequence of the

 POP servers connecting to the PDC. f. On IP allocation, the WTM found that there was no

 laid down policies and procedure for allocation/

 mapping of the IPs to the dissemination servers.

 Further, there was no Standard Operating Procedure

 (SOPs) to deal with the request for change in IP

 mapped to a particular server. That the shifting of

 IP from one server to another was left at the

 discretion of the PSM team and that different/

 preferential treatment was given to different TMs,

 especially OPG. Since there was no defined policy 61 there was a significant variation in terms of total

 number of IPs allotted to each POP server. The

 limit of 30 connections for each Port of POP server

 exceeded 30 and, therefore, IPs were not allotted

 equally on each Port of POP server. g. Since there was inequitable distribution of IPs on a

 POP server, the load on the Ports on a particular

 server and the load across servers varied

 significantly. h. NSE should have installed a load balancer which

 would have taken care of overcrowding on a

 particular Port. i. The WTM found that absence of load balancer had

 created an advantage to certain TMs in receiving

 ticks first who logged in first before those IPs that

 are connected later in time. j. Had there been a load balancer, each Port across

 each server would get the same/similar number of

 connections without crowding any out. k. Had there been a randomiser, the order of TMs

 connectivity to each Port would be randomized

 thereby negating the effect of first connect/early

 login. l. NSE had implemented a randomiser in Bucker POP

 but no clear reason was given for not implementing

 a randomiser in the TBT architecture. m. Absence of randomiser on the TBT dissemination

 servers created an inherent advantage in receiving

 TBT data by members connecting first. 66. Contention of NSE is, that the sequential data

 dissemination or early login did not confer any benefit or

 advantage for a variety of reasons. It was urged that: 67. The undisputed facts, as held in the impugned order

 itself, are as follows: 68. The contention of the respondent SEBI is, that the

 sequence of the dissemination at the PDC and the POP

 Server level is not disputed. The charge in the show

 cause notice is not in respect to the order of dissemination

 at these levels, i.e. PDC level or the POP Server level.

 The charge is confined to the dissemination of the tick at

 the Port level. It was urged that the TBT architecture was

 prone to market abuse thereby compromising market

 fairness and integrity. The order of dissemination

 connected to the same Port in a server, is on a first come

 first serve basis, meaning thereby a member connecting

 first to a specific Port in a dissemination server will 71 receive the tick before all other members connected to

 that Port on that server. It was urged that the data was

 disseminated in a sequential manner meaning thereby that

 a member who connected first to the POP Server received

 the ticks before the member who connected later. It was

 urged that a member who was aware of the sequential

 nature of dissemination of TBT data would derive an

 advantage by early login into the system. Hence, the

 TBT architecture was prone to manipulation. 69. On the issue of first connect/early login, what we find

 is, that the respondent SEBI has no quarrel with the

 dissemination of tick/data from the trading system to the

 Receiver to the Sequencer to the Processor to the POP

 Receiver and to the Port Servers. The contention of SEBI

 is, that a member who logs in first from his Colo rack to

 the Port gets the first tick before other members who logs

 in after the first member. Further, the sequence of

 receiving the data remains the same throughout the day, 72 meaning thereby, the member who logs in first receives

 the data first and continues to receive subsequent

 ticks/data/feed before other TMs during the course of the

 day. This is on account of sequential dissemination of

 data. 70. Before we look into the dissemination of data from

 the Port Server to the Colo rack server of a TM, it would

 be necessary and essential to trace the path of the

 ticks/data that is disseminated from the trading system. 71. On the basis of the statement made by NSE and the

 analysis made by Deloitte and EY in their reports, it is

 clear that the data comes from the trading system of NSE

 and is received by the PDC. The Epsilon script starts the

 three receivers in the PDC. As per Deloitte report, the

 TBT application is started manually by a member of the

 Production Support and Management Team (PSM) at

 around 7.30 a.m. on trading days followed by the

 application at POP Servers. There are no logs or records 73 to show the process or sequence in which the three

 receivers and the POP Servers were started, namely,

 whether it started simultaneously or sequentially one after

 another. EY in its report stated that on 96% of the trading

 days the three POP Servers started within 60 seconds of

 each other. 72. It is also not clear whether the Epsilon Script was

 activated manually or whether it was automated.

 According to NSE it was automated. Deloitte says

 manually and EY report states automation. However, one

 thing is clear, namely, that the Epsilon script when

 activated starts the three receivers and the three POP

 Servers within 60 seconds. 73. We also find that the information which is received in

 the three receivers at the PDC level is received randomly

 and not in a chronological manner, namely, Tick 1 sent

 from the trading system may be received by Receiver 1,

 whereas Tick 2 may be received by Receiver 2 and Tick 3 74 may be received by Receiver 3. The receiving of the Tick

 1, 2 and 3 is also dependent as to which receiver was

 activated first through the Epsilon script. The Ticks

 received by the Receivers percolates to the Sequencer

 which sequences this information in the order of the

 Ticks. Thereafter, this information goes to the Processor. 74. From the Processor, the information goes to the POP

 Server. The order in which the POP Server gets

 connected to the PDC through Epsilon script is random

 due to the variation in the TBT application start up time

 within each POP Server. According to EY, the

 dissemination sequence from PDC Processor to POP

 Server could be different on each trading day. According

 to SEBI, the sequence in which the POP Receiver

 receives the information is dependent on which POP

 Receiver starts or gets connected first to PDC. 75. We also find that the information sent from the

 Processor to the POP Server is in a sequence, namely, 75 that information is received in POP 1 Receiver, then POP

 2 Receiver and POP 3 Receiver and then POP 4 Receiver

 (Secondary Server). On another trading day, the

 information transmitted by the Processor could be

 received first by POP 2 Server, and, thereafter POP 3

 Server, POP 4 Server and POP 1 Server. This order of

 receiving information would change on every trading day

 as per EY‟s report. 76. Thereafter, POP Server transmits the information to

 the three Ports. Every POP Server has three POP Sender

 known as Ports. Information sent by the POP Receiver

 could reach first on any of the three Ports and it is not

 necessary that information disseminated from POP 1

 Receiver would always reach Port 1. It would be

 received by Port 2 or Port 3 which are all connected to

 POP 1 Receiver. 77. From the above, it is clear that the sequence of

 dissemination of data from PDC to the POP Server is not 76 predetermined. The flow of data from PDC to the layer

of POP Server is in a random sequence. The finding of

the WTM that such randomness was not on the basis of a

system characteristic or a built in design but was a matter

of chance based on unpredictable circumstances is based

on surmises and conjectures. In fact, the process of

dissemination indicated by NSE and anlaysed by EY in

its report clearly indicates that the TBT architecture had

an inbuilt randomiser in the dissemination of the

Ticks/Data/feed starting from the Trading system and

disseminating upto the POP Server. There was no

predetermined sequence as to which tick would be

received first by Receiver 1, Receiver 2 or Receiver 3 at

the PDC level. Further, the information disseminated

from the Processor to the POP Receiver was also random.

The information packet disseminated from the Processor

could be received first by POP 1 Receiver, then POP 2

Receiver, POP 3 Receiver and then POP 4 Receiver on a 77 particular trading day and this sequence could change on

 the next trading day. This randomiser was dependent on

 the starting of the TBT application by the Epsilon script.

 Any Receiver at the PDC level and any POP Receiver at

 the POP level could get activated first before the other.

 The architecture was such that it had an inbuilt

 randomiser in the dissemination of data at the PDC level

 as well as at the POP Server level. This random login

 sequence was also observed in the Experts report and

 SEBI Investigation Report. 78. The WTM accepted this randomness in the impugned

 order holding: 79. The WTM has held that the dissemination of

 information at the Port level was in a predefined

 sequence, i.e., first to Port 1, then to Port 2 and then to

 Port 3. The WTM held that since the dissemination of

 information at the Port level was in a defined sequence,

 the TM who logs in first to Port 1 of the POP Server

 would get the data first at the start of the trading day and

 thereafter the sequence of the IPs in a Port would

 continue to remain the same throughout the day. The

 information dissemination order from a Port would

 remain static throughout the day depending upon the

 ranks established on the strength of log in timings. It was

 thus held that equal access of information was not

 possible to all the TMs logged into the TB data feed

 system at a given point of time and, therefore, the system

 conferred an advantage on early loggers in a Port

 compared to others. 80. The aforesaid conclusion drawn by the WTM was

 primarily based on the fact that the dissemination of

 information at the Sender Port level of a particular server

 was in a predefined sequence, i.e. first to Port A, then

 Port 2 and then to Port 3. In our opinion, this finding is

 not based on any evidence for the reasons stated

 hereunder: ii. There are nine independent dissemination

 queues and dissemination on each Port is

 sequential based on login time of a

 member. iii. NSE provided members access credentials

 to a Port of a POP which could then be

 used to access TBT market data feed. Based on our review of source code of

 POP, each Port was an independent

 dissemination queue and dissemination

 from a Port to members was sequential

 based on their login ranks on a port (login 81 rank was determined based on the login

 time of members on that Port). Such

 sequential dissemination on the Port was on

 account of an array that was designed based

 on login time of member‟s IP. The reason

 for designing the array based on a login

 time of a member‟s IP could not be

 ascertained. iv. Also, a member may not have knowledge

 of his rank in an array as the login

 acknowledgment message sent by the

 exchange did not have this information.

v. The login rank on the different ports and

 not the absolute time of login defined the

 order of dissemination. For e.g. if member

 A and B log in at 8:45 a.m. and 8:50 a.m.

 respectively on Port 10980 and member C

 and D at 7:30 a.m. and 7:40 a.m. on Port 82 10981, each of them will be ranked 1 and 2

 on their respective Ports. However, if Port

 10980 is disseminated the tick first, then

 member A and B who have logged in later

 than member C and D may still be

 disseminated the batch earlier. disseminated a batch before others on that

 Port for that trading day. Similarly a

 member ranked last on the array on a Port

 would always be disseminated a batch last

 on that Port for that trading day. vii. Further, there were three POP servers

 (including secondary) with three Ports each

 and consequently nine independent

 dissemination queues. A member would

 need to be first on all the nine Ports (across 83 three POPs) to be disseminated all the

 batches first on that trading day. viii. Each POP had a receiver and three senders

 (also termed as Ports) since December

 2011. The Port numbers assigned in CM

 were 10980, 10981 and 10982. ix. The Ports would start in the sequence of

 Port 10980, 10981 and 10982. x. POP receiver receives a batch from PDC

 and disseminates it to the respective queue

 of each Port sequentially. define the order of the receipt of batch at

 each Port. xii. An array (dissemination sequence) is

 maintained by each Port which is created

 based on the time of login by a member on 84 that Port, i.e. earliest login is ranked first.

 Dissemination from a Port to members is

 sequential based on their login ranks on a

 Port. xiii. When a member‟s connects to a TBT

 server (on a Port), the member application

 sends a login request and transmits the

 login credentials. The TBT application

 processes the login request and sends a

 login response message to the member

 application. xiv. Based on the information in the above login

 message details, it appears that a member

 may not have knowledge about their rank

 in the array." b. Deloitte in its report has confirmed that they did

 not examine the receipt of ticks. c. The analysis of the EY Report clearly indicates

 that there was variability in order of receipt of

 data at the Port level from the POP Receiver.

 Thus the Port that disseminated the data first did

 not receive all the data first. EY report indicates

 that dissemination of a batch of information was

 received from PDC to each Port sequentially, i.e.

 dissemination first to Port 10980, followed by

 Port 10981 and Port 10982. The source code

 defined the order of dissemination of batches but

 not that of their receipt at each Port within the

 same POP. For example batch 1 may be

 received first by Port 10980, while batch 2 may

 be received first by Port 10981. d. EY in its report further found that TM Mr. A

 even if he logs in at 8:45 a.m. and TM Mr. B

 logs in at 8:50 a.m. respectively on Port 10980

 and TM Mr. C and Mr. D logs in at 7:30 a.m. 86 and 7:40 a.m. on Port 10981, each one of them

 will be ranked first and second in their respective

 Ports. If Port 10980 disseminates the first tick

 then member Mr. A and Mr. B who have logged

 in later than member Mr. C and Mr. D will

 receive the tick first. The EY report further

 analysed that there were three POP Servers.

 Each POP Server had three Ports. Therefore,

 there were nine Ports from which ticks were

 disseminated. The report found that a TM would

 need to be first to log in all the nine Ports in

 order to receive the first batch of information on

 a trading day. e. From the aforesaid, it is clear that even though

 information is disseminated from the POP Server

 sequentially, it is not necessary that the Port

 Server receives it sequentially. The Port may

 receive a batch of information first and the 87 second batch may be received first by another

 Port. Further, a TM who logs in first on a

 particular Port may not receive the information

 first as another TM who logged in at a later point

 of time on another Port may receive the

 information/tick first. f. EY in its report states that the source code

 defined the order of dissemination of batches but

 not that of their receipt at each Port within the

 same POP. For example, batch 1 may be

 received first by Port 10980, while batch 2 may

 be received first by Port 10981. There are nine

 independent dissemination queues and

 dissemination on each Port is sequential based

 on login time of a TM. g. Thus again, we find that there is some

 randomness in the dissemination of data from

 POP Server to Port. The dissemination from the 88 POP Server is sequential but receipt of the

 information at the Port level may not be

 sequential. One batch of information may be

 received first by one Port and another batch of

 information may be received by another Port

 first. h. Each Port was an independent dissemination

 queue and dissemination from a Port to TM was

 sequential based on their ranks on a Port. Such

 sequential dissemination on the Port was on

 account of an array that was designed based on

 login time of a TM IP. i. A TM logging in first on a particular Port may

 not receive the information first. EY in its report

 finds that if TM Mr. A and Mr. B logs in at 8:45

 a.m. and 8:50 a.m. respectively on Port 10980

 and TM Mr. C and Mr. D logs in at 7:30 a.m.

 and 7:40 a.m. respectively on Port 10981, each 89 of them will be ranked 1 and 2 on that respective

 Ports. However, if the information/tick is

 disseminated first on Port 10980, then TM Mr. A

 and Mr. B who have logged in later than TM Mr.

 C and Mr. D will receive the information first.

j. Once a TM Mr. A receives the information first

 as he was ranked first in that Port will always

 receive the batch of information first before

 other TMs on that Port for that trading day.

 Thus, TM Mr. A would receive the information

 first and TM Mr. B would receive the

 information thereafter. The time difference

 appears to be a fraction of a microsecond to a

 nano second. Thus, a TM who is ranked last on

 a particular Port would always be disseminated a

 batch of information last on that Port for that

 trading day. k. EY in its report further found that a member

 would need to be first on all the nine Ports to

 receive the first batch of information on that

 trading day. l. There were nine Ports on which data/information

 was disseminated. A TM would get the

 information first if he logged in first in all the

 nine Ports on that trading day. No such

 instances were found in any of the reports.

m. A TM had no knowledge of his rank in the

 queue on a particular Port. A TM was also not

 aware of the order in which POP Server would

 connect to the PDC on a particular trading day

 nor was he aware whether he was logged in on

 the first Port of a particular server or was first on

 a particular Port. A TM also did not know the

 order of connection of each TM to a Port. n. Thus, we find that the flow of data from the PDC

 to the POP Server followed a random sequence.

 Till this point, there is no dispute. The WTM

 also accepts this randomness till this stage. We,

 however, find that dissemination of data from

 POP Servers is sequential to the Port. But we

 find that receipt of information at the Sender

 Port is not sequential, namely that batch 1 of

 information may be received first by Port 1, but

 batch 2 may be received by Port 2. Thus, till the

 stage of Port, there is some randomness in the

 dissemination of data right from PDC level to

 the Port level. We further find there was

 variability in the order of receipt of data at the

 Port level and even the Port that was

 disseminated data first did not necessarily

 receive all the data first. A TM who logged in

 first would receive the data first on the Port 92 ahead of the TM who logged in after him. The

 TM who logged in first would continue to

 receive the batches of information ahead of the

 TM who logged later from the rest of that

 trading day. We also observe that the TM who

 logs in first may get a probabilistic advantage of

 receiving the data first ahead of other TM who

 logged in later on that particular Port. b) Absence of Randomiser 81. The show cause notice alleged that absence of

 randomiser on the TBT dissemination server created an

 inherent advantage in receiving TBT data by members

 connecting first. It was also alleged that a randomiser

 was developed by NSE in 2011 and was implemented for

 the bucket POP Server in 2012 but the same was not

 implemented in the normal TBT segment server and that

 NSE was unable to explain the reason for not 93 implementing the randomiser in the normal TBT segment

 server. It was also alleged that the development of the

 randomiser and its implementation in the bucket POP

 Server was not disclosed to the forensic auditor by the

 NSE team until it was identified during the forensic

 analysis by the forensic auditor. 82. The WTM after considering the material evidence on

 record came to the conclusion that the TCP IP

 architecture of TBT data feed was inadequate as the

 inherent early log in advantage was not sought to be

 addressed by introduction of a randomiser. The WTM

 concluded that a TM who logged in to the Sender Port of

 a POP Server which had connected first to the PDC on a

 trading day would be disseminated data first on that Port

 throughout the day and that a randomiser after the Ports

 would have ensured that even when a TM consistently

 logged in first in a Port of a POP Server which connected

 first to the PDC it would not guarantee that such TM 94 would receive the data first. The WTM concluded that

 the employment of a randomiser in the normal data feed

 dissemination would have upset the pre-determined

 sequence of IPs based on early logins and would have

 brought in much needed element of unpredictability in the

 sequence of data packet (dissemination). 83. As we have concluded earlier that the flow of data

 from the PDC to the POP Server is in a random sequence.

 The dissemination of data from POP Server to the Port is

 sequential but the receipt of the information at the Sender

 Port is not sequential, namely, that batch 1 of information

 may be received first by Port 1 but batch 2 may be

 received by Port 2. Thus, we find that till the stage of

 Port there is some randomness in the dissemination of

 data already from PDC level to Port level. We further

 found that there was variability in the order of receipt of

 data on the Port and even the Port that disseminated the

 data first did not necessarily receive all the data first. 95 84. In view of the aforesaid finding given by us, the

 WTM has erred in coming to the conclusion that a TM

 who logged in first to the Sender Port of a Pop Receiver

 which was first on a trading day would get the

 disseminated data first on that Port. This is incorrect as

 we have held that even if a TM is connected first to a Port

 it is not necessary that he would receive the data first. A

 TM who logs in later on another Port may receive the

 data first before the TM who logged in first on Port 1. 85. A randomiser is a function which is Sender Port

 specific and which would randomly pick a connection to

 begin dissemination of data. The purpose of a randomiser

 is that it would randomly send the data either to Port 1 or

 to Port 2 or to Port 3 and that there would be

 unpredictability with regard to dissemination of the data

 on a particular Port. As we have found that the

 dissemination of data from the Sender Port to the TM was

 not sequential but there was a randomness and that the 96 receipt of information at the Sender Port was not

 sequential, namely, that batch 1 of the information may

 be received by Port 1 and that batch 2 may be received

 first by Port 2 and, therefore, till the stage of Port there

 was some randomness in the dissemination of the data.

 Thus, introducing a randomiser after the Port level would

 have created a randomness of dissemination of data in

 which randomness was already existing. In our opinion,

 once there was randomness in dissemination of data from

 the Sender Port level there was no requirement of having

 an additional randomiser for further randomness of

 dissemination of data. 86. The finding that absence of randomiser created an

 inherited advantage in receiving TBT data who connected

 first is erroneous as a TM connecting first does not give it

 a guarantee that it would receive the data first when it is

 disseminated from the Port. c) IP Allocation and load balancer 87. The show cause notice alleged that there was no laid

 down policies and procedure for allocation/mapping of

 IPs to dissemination servers and that there was no SOPs.

 It was also alleged that many TMs made a request for

 change in IP mapped to a particular server and such

 request for shifting IPs from one server to another was

 left at the discretion of the PSM Team and, consequently,

 differential treatment was given by PSM Team to

 different TMs. As a result, some TMs were given

 preferential treatment. 88. Deloitte in its report has provided data with regard to

 allocation of IPs across TBT Servers which has been

 tabulated in table XI of the impugned order. The show

 cause notice further contended that the limit of 30

 connections for each Port of POP Server exceeded 30 IPs

 and, consequently, there was significant variation in

 terms of total number of IPs allocated to each POP 98 Server. This variation in the allocation of IPs across each

 POP Server was known to the PSM Team. This fact is on

 the basis of an analysis of emails of the members of PSM

 Team. 89. EY in its report made the following observation: 90. From the aforesaid, the show cause notice alleged: 99 91. It was, thus, alleged that in the absence of a load

 balancer, variation of load on each Port have resulted in

 an inequitable access to the TMs in as much as variation

 of load at each Port had/or would have resulted in varied 100 lagged time for distribution of data under sequential data

 distribution process. 92. The WTM upon consideration of the evidence and

 submissions made by the parties found that there was no

 SOPs for allocation of the IPs but a limitation of 30

 connections per Port of POP Server i.e. a total of 90 per

 POP Server was fixed. The WTM found that there was a

 significant variation in terms of number of IPs allotted to

 each Port within a Port Server and the total number of IPs

 allotted to each POP Server. It was found that though

 there was a limit of 30 servers on each Port of POP

 Server, actual number of IPs allocated exceeded more

 than 30 connections of a Port of a POP Server. The

 WTM further found that the allocation of the IPs to the

 POP Server was done manually. Thus, IPs connected

 ahead would receive data packets before those IPs that

 were connected later in time in the same array. Such

 allocation of IPs done manually exceeded 30 connections 101 per Port on a POP Servers which was not in line with the

 recommendations of the NSE Development Team. The

 WTM further found that in view of exceeding 30

 connections on each Port of POP Server the variation of

 load at a particular Port level would significantly impact

 the data dissemination time in other Ports of the same

 POP Server and across the other POP Servers. The WTM

 found that implementation of the load balancer would

 have resulted in the IPs being mapped to the load

 balancer which would then equitably distribute the

 connection across the POP Server thus eliminating the

 allocation of IPs being done manually and also

 eliminating the time lag in receipt of data packets

 experienced by members on account of having connected

 to a more loaded POP Servers exceeding 30 connections. 93. Before us, the contention of NSE is, that as and when

 NSE received requests from TMs for allocation or

 shifting their IPs to a different Port then NSE would take 102 efforts to accommodate such requests, unless there were

feasibility issues regarding non-availability of Ports on a

particular server etc. NSE contended that no preferential

treatment was shown to any particular broker and, in case

any broker complained about any latency issue, such

requests was considered and IPs were shifted after

considering the evidence. It was alleged that the lack of

load balancer did not make the TBT architecture prone to

manipulation. According to NSE, the load balancer was

initially suggested as an automation measure to address

server failures and avoid manual IP movement by the

TBT team to another Port. It was contended that at the

relevant moment of time there was no regulatory

requirement to implement the use of a load balancer. It

was contended that the issue of implementing a load

balancer was conscientiously considered by NSE and a

bona fide decision was taken not to implement the load

balancer on the ground that it would have increased the 103 latency and that it would present one more single point of

 failure and that an additional hardware device like that of

 a load balancer was generally not used in the TBT

 architecture. In support of his submission the learned

 senior counsel placed reliance on the statements of Ms.

 Mamatha Rangaprasad, Mr. N. Murlidharan. It was

 further stated that in any event the variation in load across

 servers was not significant which would require a load

 balancer. It was urged that the load on each Port

 depended on the number of connections by members on

 that Port on a given day and the load was not dependent

 on the number of allocations of IPs on that Port. It was,

 thus, urged that there was no evidence or material to

 demonstrate that the variation in load resulted in any

 advantage or disadvantage to any TM. 94. Considering the submissions made by NSE and upon

 consideration of the material evidence that has come on

 record, one thing is clear that there were no defined laid 104 down SOPs for allocation of IPs to a TM. Mr. Ravi Apte

 in his submission dated 2nd May, 2018 has categorically

 stated that

 ―there was no system for load balancing/ dynamic
 load balancing‖

 meaning thereby that there was no procedure for

 allocation of IPs. 95. However, one thing is clear that NSE took a decision

 to allocate 30 connections per Port on a POP Server i.e. a

 total of 90 connections per POP Server. This allocation

 of IPs was done sequentially i.e. one POP Server at a time

 and distributing the IPs to one POP Server and then

 moving on to the next POP Server to manage load

 balancing across various POP Servers. However, the

 evidence on record and especially table XI in the

 impugned order shows allocation of IPs exceeded 30

 connections per Port of a POP Server. This table has not

 been denied by NSE and this table has also been given in 105 the Deloitte report. Thus, the policy adopted by NSE to

 limit 30 connections per Port of a POP Server was

 infringed. 96. It has also come on record that the allocations of IPs

 were done manually to the POP Server. The shifting of

 the IPs from one Port to another Port was also done

 manually. Evidence has further come to the effect that

 load balancing of IPs on a given trading day was also

 done manually. We find that the absence of load balancer

 appears to have created an advantage to certain TMs due

 to manual intervention. The PSM/Colo teams were aware

 that the shifting of IPs from one Port to another Port was

 increasing the down time which was inconvenient to most

 of the TMs. The PSM/Colo teams were also aware that

 the manual distribution of IPs created an operational risk

 while balancing the load on the servers continually and

 the process of shifting the IPs from one Port to another

 especially when the number of connections started 106 increasing. Ms. Mamatha Rangaprasad in her statement

 dated 1st August, 2017 stated that a load balancer is used

 to balance the actual connects on the servers and the

 solution of load balancer was suggested to avoid manual

 reconnection and auto connect these members to other

 server. Mr. N. Murlidharan in his statement of 20th April,

 2018 stated that any additional device would create an

 additional hop and that the minimisation of device was a

 critical factor which ensured fewer failure points and,

 therefore, the load balancer was not considered. 97. As early as on 3rd January, 2012, an email from Ms.

 Smrati Kaushik indicated that with the increase in the

 number of TBT connections two major risk opened,

 namely, that in the event of an issue like hardware failure

 for which members had to change the IP to come to the

 Fall-back server would increase the down time and most

 of the members found it inconvenient and that currently

 distribution was manual and recommended 107 implementation of a load balancer. This email was

 followed by another email on 4th January, 2012 from

 Hozefa Poonawala suggesting implementation of a load

 balancer. 98. From the aforesaid, it is clear that NSE was aware of

 the practical difficulties in manually allocating the IPs

 and shifting the IPs from one Port to another Port. A load

 balancer was suggested. The reply of NSE indicates that

 a decision was taken not to implement the load balancer.

 We find that there is nothing on record to indicate what

 bonafide decision was taken by NSE for not

 implementing the load balancer. As we have already held

 there was no laid down defined SOPs for allocation of the

 IPs. 99. This leads us to the question of whether a load

 balancer was necessary in the facts of the given case. 100. A Load Balancer as described in the impugned order

 is as under: 101. We find that the load on the Port on a particular

 Server varies vis-a-vis the load across Ports and across

 Servers and, in the absence of a „Load Balancer‟, such

 variation of load at each Port would have resulted in a

 varied time lag for distribution of data under sequential

 data dissemination process. 102. We also find that the manual load balancing of

 members across servers was not performed equitably by

 NSE. There were significant variations in terms of 109 number of connections across different servers and Ports.

 The load on Ports on a particular server and the load

 across servers varied significantly. In the absence of a

 dynamic load balancer, such variation of load at each Port

 resulted in varied time lag for distribution of data under

 sequential data distribution process. 103. Though NSE claimed that load balancing was done

 manually where members were allocated to servers based

 on existing load, actual number of IPs allocated varied

 significantly across the ports. The variation was even

 more pronounced in terms of number of IPs actually

 connected. This resulted into significant variation in

 crowding at different ports. 104. We are of the opinion that in a system where a Load

 Balancer was employed, the Trading Members would not

 be mapped to any particular server or port, but rather to

 the Load Balancer itself. The function of the Load

 Balancer would be to allocate the TBT IPs of trading 110 members evenly to the servers and ports at the time of

 login itself. Once the trading members have logged in,

 they would have been mapped to the load balancer, which

 will automatically allocate the trading member a lesser

 crowded port vis-à-vis other port. 105. Consequently, if a Load Balancer was installed, it

 would distribute the load at the start of the trading day

 across the ports. It would also distribute the load at every

 stage when there is a subsequent connection during the

 course of the day. This would ensure fairness, equality

 and transparency in the system, which the NSE was

 mandated to comply with. It is trite that the process of

 load balancing is dynamic in terms of continuous

 allocation of lesser crowded ports to the trading members

 at the time of login either at the start of the day or during

 the time of any subsequent connection. 106. In view of the aforesaid, it is apparent that a load

 balancer was essential for equal distribution of IPs on a 111 particular Port. If on a given day there is a load factor on

 a particular Port in contrast to a lesser load on another

 Port, then the load balancer would automatically shift the

 excess IPs on one particular Port to another Port which

 has a lesser number of connections on that day in order to

 equalize and balance the load across all Ports. The load

 balancer distributes the traffic across all Ports and

 eliminates manual intervention which is otherwise

 susceptible to preferential treatment to a given set of

 TMs. 107. The alleged decision taken by NSE not to implement

 the load balancer is not on record and, in any case, does

 not appear to be a bonafide decision. Their contention

 that implementation of load balancer would increase the

 latency is per se erroneous. Latency, if any, would be

 equal for all TMs and it would not be a case where the

 latency factor is for one TM against another TM.

 Implementation of a load balancer if it increases the 112 latency would be equal across all TMs who have logged

 in on that particular date. 108. Thus, non-implementation of a load balancer has not

 ensured the norms of fair access and if the load balancer

 was implemented, norms of fair access would not have

 been breached. Failure to implement the load balancer in

 the TBT architecture, in our opinion, failed to ensure fair,

 transparent and equal access by NSE to its TMs. 109. To sum up, a TM who connected first to the POP

 server was not assured to receive the tick first. The TM

 who logged in first may get a probabilistic advantage of

 receiving the data first ahead of the TM who logged in

 later on that server. Since the TBT architecture created a

 randomness in the dissemination of data also from the

 Sender Port level, there was no requirement for installing

 a randomiser. The allocation of IPs and its shifting from

 one server to another server was not done as per the

 decision taken by NSE. There were overcrowding of IPs 113 on one server as compared to other server. There was

 inequal distribution of IPs on the same server and there

 was no laid down SOP for allocation of IPs to a TM.

 NSE should have implemented a load balancer which

 would have distributed the IPs equally across all servers

 and norms of fair access would not have been breached.

 Failure to implement the load balancer has failed to

 ensure fair, transparent and equal access by NSE to its

 TMs. Issue No.2 110. Whether access of secondary server had advantage of

 receiving information early and what was the mechanism

 in NSE to monitor the secondary server misuse. 111. The show cause notice is based on TAC report,

 Deloitte report and the EY report. The show cause notice

 alleges that NSE did not have any defined policies and

 procedures with regard to accessing the secondary server

 and that guidelines were not issued as circulars. It was 114 also alleged that NSE was selective in reprimanding only

 some brokers who had connected to the secondary server

 and allowed other brokers to continue connecting

 regularly to the secondary server and, thus, showed

 differential treatment to brokers. It was alleged that in

 the absence of any mechanism for stopping TMs to

 access the secondary server it gave advantage to those

 TMs who were connected to the secondary server and,

 thus, received information early than other TMs who

 were logged in to the regular servers. 112. Deloitte in its report submitted that the secondary

 server was also an active server and that a TM could

 receive data if it was connected to the secondary server.

 The report also stated that there was no documented

 policy or procedure with respect to connection to the

 secondary server nor was there any mechanism to identify

 members connected to the secondary servers. Deloitte

 also reported that „Ticks‟ were disseminated faster to 115 members connected to less crowded server thereby giving

 advantage to such members. 113. EY in its report submitted that based on stimulation

 test performed 95% of all the batches were disseminated

 first to the members connected first to Port of secondary

 servers. 114. Thus, the two reports primarily observed that in the

 first few months of 2012 the connection to the secondary

 servers were being monitored by NSE and that certain

 TMs were reprimanded and were directed to disconnect it

 from the secondary servers. The two reports observed

 that whereas certain members were reprimanded other

 TMs were allowed to stay connected with the secondary

 server for no valid reason. EY has given detailed report

 with regard to which members being reprimanded. 115. NSE responded that the secondary server was only a

 backup server to be used only in the event of failure of

 the primary server. NSE submitted that the secondary 116 server would allow TMs to continuously receive TBT

 market feed without disruption and each TM was given

 an IP address for connecting to the secondary server.

 NSE submitted that it was accepted that the members

 would connect to the secondary server only when they

 were unable to connect with the primary servers. NSE

 further submitted that the secondary server was always

 kept in active mode to ensure that members could easily

 and quickly switch to secondary server in the event of

 failure of the primary servers. These guidelines were

 issued to all TMs. NSE, however, admitted that they did

 not have any mechanism of continuously monitoring the

 connection to the secondary server. 116. NSE further responded that since NSE was

 experiencing server failures it was decided to move the

 TBT infrastructure from the PDC to a separate Colocation

 data centre. This migration of TBT server to the new

 colocation data centre was undertaken in the first six 117 months of 2012 and, during this period, in order to ensure

that the secondary server was free in the event that the

primary server went down, during the migration period

with the PSM team performed some limited check with

regard to connections to the secondary server. It was

further contended that the PSM Team, upon checking,

found certain members were connected to the secondary

server, and were reprimanded and were further directed to

disconnect from the secondary server. It was contended

that there was no discrimination and warning was issued

uniformly to all the members who were connected to the

secondary server during the migration period. It was

vehemently contended that at no point of time NSE ever

developed a mechanism to continuously or automatically

monitor connections to the secondary server and only

periodic checks were carried out by the PSM team during

the migration period. 117. The WTM found that there was no defined policy

 with regard to accessing the secondary server and that

 only a guideline was issued which was not in the form of

 a circular. The WTM further observed that in the absence

 of continuous monitoring of the secondary server led

 certain TMs to be given preferential treatment who

 continued to access the secondary server and,

 consequently, misused the secondary server with

 impunity. The WTM further accepted the EY‟s

 stimulation test observing that 95-96% in CM Segment

 and 80-85% in CD Segment of all batches were

 disseminated to members connected first to Port of

 secondary server and thereby certain advantages were

 made by these TMs. This was only possible in the

 absence of strict monitoring which allowed members to

 harvests the benefits of early access to the TBT feed from

 the secondary server. 118. Having heard the learned counsel for the parties and

 having perused the record we find that NSE had issued a

 Colocation guideline on 8th August 2011 which was

 revised on 16th April, 2012 which states as under: 119. According to NSE, the Colocation guidelines was

 sent as a welcome email to all new members in

 Colocation and that the said guidelines was never used as

 a circular. NSE also admitted that there was no

 monitoring mechanism to identify members connected to

 secondary servers nor was there any documented policy

 with respect to TMs connected to fallback servers.

 According to NSE, when a TM took a new TBT

 connection the activation email sent by the membership

 team carried information regarding the primary server

 and port and secondary server and Port and it was 120 expected from the members that they would only use the

 secondary server only in the event of failure of primary

 server. 120. We find it strange that NSE as a regulator did not

 place any mechanism to check unauthorized access to the

 secondary server by the TMs. The reason why we are

 saying this is that there is no difference between the

 secondary server and the three primary servers. As we

 have observed earlier, information is disseminated from

 the PDC Center to the POP 1 Receiver, POP 2 Receiver,

 POP 3 Receiver and POP 4 Receiver. POP 4 Receiver is

 the secondary sever. Each POP receiver has three Ports

 and the secondary server also has three Ports. All TMs

 were required to login in the three servers and not in the

 secondary server. Certain mechanism was placed by

 NSE for balancing the load on the three Ports but no

 mechanism of balancing the load was placed in the

 secondary server and the reason is not far to see, namely, 121 that TMs were not allowed to access the data from the

 secondary server and that the secondary server was only

 to be used in the event of an emergency upon failure of

 the primary server. 121. It was, thus, found that any TMs who logged in

 through the secondary server had an added advantage as

 there was no mechanism to monitor the load factor and

 since there was less load on the secondary server it

 became advantageous to access the data faster ahead of

 other TMs. 122. The guidelines issued by NSE were clear that the

 secondary server could only be used by a TM for

 accessing data only in the event of failure of the primary

 server. A TM could only use the secondary server upon a

 prior intimation and permission given by NSE Colocation

 team. 123. Thus, it was imperative for NSE to have a defined

 policy for use of secondary server and a mechanism 122 ought to have been placed for monitoring connection by

 TMs on the secondary server and reprimanding or taking

 penal action against such TMs who violated and used the

 secondary server to access the data. By not doing so the

 NSE has failed to carry out its duties as the first regulator. 124. Further, we find that the secondary server was also an

 active server meaning thereby that data could be accessed

 at any moment of time if a TM is connected. Thus, in our

 opinion, a system ought to have been placed whereby the

 secondary server could only start when the primary server

 failed or a mechanism should have come into existence to

 ensure that members could connect to secondary server

 only when the primary server failed. 125. It was not sufficient for NSE to hold that the TM was

 made aware of the use of the secondary server through

 their welcome email which, in our opinion, was

 insufficient. We find that when the load on the three

 Ports were being monitored it became essential for NSE 123 to ensure that no TM had access to the secondary server

 for accessing the data. 126. A plausible explanation has been given that the

 monitoring on the secondary server was made only for a

 limited period during the period of data center migration.

 We however find that when NSE came to know about the

 misuse of the secondary server by the TMs, it should

 have set up a monitoring system immediately and ensured

 that no TMs accessed the secondary server without

 permission. We also find that there is no plausible

 explanation as to why during this period only some of the

 TMs were reprimanded and others who had also logged

 in to the secondary server were not reprimanded. Thus,

 an irresistible conclusion can be drawn that certain TMs

 were given preferential treatment and no warning letters

 were issued to them. 127. We also observe that admittedly the secondary server

 was less loaded in terms of IP connection primarily due to 124 the fact that TMs were expected to access only the

 primary server in compliance with the NSE Colocation

 guidelines. In the absence of any mechanism for

 monitoring, TMs who connected themselves to the

 secondary server were able to harvest the benefit of early

 access to the TBT feed in comparison to the other TMs

 who were not connected to the secondary server. 128. In this regard, we find that the EY in its report has

 given details supported by evidence indicating certain

 TMs who continuously logged in to the secondary server

 for a considerable period of time and were also connected

 to the first, second and third Port of secondary server for

 majority of the trading days thus, getting information

 prior and faster to other TMs. In this regard, detailed

 discussion will be made in the latter part of the judgment. 129. In view of the aforesaid, we are of the opinion, that

 NSE did not have any defined policy and procedure

 regarding access to the secondary server except those 125 which were mentioned in the NSE guidelines which were

 basic and inadequate. Further, there was no documented

 policy or procedure regarding monitoring of unauthorized

 access by TMs on the secondary server which resulted in

 the misuse of the secondary server with impunity by

 some of the TMs. Issue no.3 130. Liability of NSE under SEBI PFUTP Regulations,

 2003 and SECC Regulations, 2012. 131. The show cause notice alleged that NSE had violated

 Section 12A(a) of the SCRA Act read with Section 11(1) , 11(2)(a) , 11(2)(j) and 11B of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a) , 3(b) , 3(c) , 3(d) and Regulation 4(1) of

 the PFUTP Regulation, 2003 read with Regulation 41(2)

 and Regulation 42(2) of the SECC Regulations, 2012

 read with Clause 4(i) of the SEBI Circular dated 30th

 March, 2012 and Clause 3 of the SEBI circular dated 13th

 May, 2015. 132. The WTM after considering the response found that

 NSE had not violated any provision of the PFUTP

 Regulations since no fraud was committed by NSE or its

 employees and, consequently, exonerated NSE of the

 charge under the PFUTP Regulations. The WTM held: 133. The WTM further held that failure to place the

 randomizer or load balancer in the TCP IP dissemination

 protocol, cannot be categorised as breach of the principles

 of "fairness and equity" attracting the provisions of 127 PFUTP Regulations. The WTM held that the

 dissemination of information which is in breach of the

 stipulation contained in SECC Regulations cannot

 automatically attract the rigors of PFUTP Regulations,

 without there being any proof to indicate fraud. The

 WTM held that in the absence of any fraud or collusion

 or connivance the possibility of fraud was non-existent. 134. The WTM, however, found that the dissemination of

 information at different stages of the technology process

 was inequitable and that NSE failed to ensure a level

 playing field for the TMs subscribing to the TBT data

 feed of NSE. The WTM found that there was no

 equitable distribution of allocation of IPs and that absence

 of load balancer provided an advantage and disadvantage

 to certain TMs on the basis of their login rank on a

 particular day and that non-inclusion of randomizer gave

 a fair advantage for a TM who logged in first coupled

 with the fact that there was failure on the part of NSE to 128 monitor frequent connection to the NSE server by certain

 TMS. The WTM held that all these factors point out to

 violation pertaining to fair and equitable access to

 information as provided under Regulation 41(2) of the

 SECC Regulations, 2012 and, therefore, came to the

 conclusion that NSE did not comply with the provisions

 of Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations in "letter

 and spirit" and, accordingly, violated the said provision as

 well as Regulation 42(2) of the Regulations. 135. While arriving at the aforesaid conclusion, we find

 that the WTM has taken into consideration the circular of

 13th May, 2015, which in our opinion has nothing to do

 with the present controversy in as much as the alleged

 violation is for the period 2010 to April, 2014 as during

 this period NSE had used the TBT architecture for

 dissemination of data before introducing MTBT system. 129 136. Before we proceed further, it would be appropriate to

 refer to Section 4 of the SCRA Act, 1965 which provides

 as under: 137. Section 4 provides that the Central Government may

 grant recognition to the stock exchange with a view to

 ensure fair dealing and with a view to protect the

 investors. 138. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 ,

 Section 8A and Section 31 of the SCRA Act read with Section 11 and Section 30 of the SEBI Act, SECC 130 Regulations were framed on 20th June, 2012 for the

 purpose of requiring recognition, ownership and

 governance in stock exchange. Regulation 41(2) of the

 SECC Regulations, 2012 provides as under: 139. A perusal of the aforesaid provision indicates that a

 stock exchange is required to ensure equal, unrestricted,

 transparent and fair access to all persons. Clause 4(i) of

 the circular dated 30th March, 2012 issued by SEBI is

 extracted hereunder:- 140. The aforesaid circular provides that the stock

 exchange will ensure that it shall make all arrangements,

 procedures and system capability to manage the load on

 their systems with regard to algorithm trading in such a

 manner so as to achieve consistent response time to all

 stock brokers. Clause 3 of the SEBI circular dated 13th

 May, 2015 provides as under: location/proximity hosting facility have fair and
 equal access to facilities and data feeds provided by
 the stock exchange. 3.3. ensure that all stock brokers and data vendors
 using co-location/proximity hosting, experience
 similar latency with respect to exchange provided
 infrastructure.‖ 141. Under this circular, a stock exchange was required to

 ensure that all participants which avail Colocation facility

 have fair and equal access to facilities and data feeds

 provided by the stock exchange. 142. Based on the aforesaid provisions, regulations and

 circulars, the WTM came to the conclusion that NSE has

 violated Regulation 41(2) and 42(2) of the SECC

 Regulations, 2012. 143. Admittedly, the WTM found that NSE has not

 violated any provisions of the PFUTP Regulations and

 has not committed fraud. In this regard, the WTM

 observed that the charge leveled under Regulations 3 and

 4 of the PFUTP Regulations were not only vague but

 were unsubstantiated. None of the ingredients as 133 provided under Regulation 2(c)(1) and 2(c)(9) of the

 PFUTP Regulations applied to NSE. There was no

 "knowing misrepresentation", "active concealment",

 "false promise", "representation made in a reckless and

 careless manner", "fraudulent act or omission",

 "deceptive behavior", "false statement" etc. which are all

 ingredients of fraud and, therefore, Regulation 3(a) , 3(b) , 3(c) and 3(d) were not attracted. The WTM, on the

 aforesaid basis, rightly came to the conclusion that no

 case of fraud or inducement was made out against NSE

 under Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. 144. The WTM, however, came to the conclusion that

 Regulation 41(2) and 42(2) of the SECC Regulations,

 2012 were violated by NSE in "letter and spirit". The

 WTM found that there was inequity at different stages of

 the technology process i.e. TBT architecture and,

 accordingly, in paragraph 10.1 of the impugned order

 held that NSE had not exercised the requisite due 134 diligence while putting in place the TBT architecture and

 that the same created a trading environment in which the

 information dissemination was asymmetric, which cannot

 be considered fair and equitable and, consequently, the

 failure of NSE to ensure equitable and fair access violated

 Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations, 2012. In

 paragraph 8.3.3.10, the WTM held that the

 omission/commission on the side of NSE was in violation

 of Regulation 41(1) and 42(2) of the SECC Regulation

 read with Clause 4(i) of the circular dated 30th March,

 2012. 145. The conclusion drawn in paragraph 10.1 of the

 impugned order that the dissemination was asymmetric is

 based on the findings given in paragraph 8.3.3.7 of the

 impugned order, namely, inequitable distribution in the

 allocation of IPs, absence of load balancer, non-inclusion

 of randomizer and failure to monitor frequent connection

 to the secondary server. 146. In the instant case, the inequitable distribution as held

 by the WTM in paragraph 8.3.3.7 has nothing to do with

 the TBT architecture. As held earlier in the preceding

 paragraphs the dissemination of information/tick/data

 from the PDC stage to the POP Receiver and thereafter to

 the Ports were random, namely, there was randomness in

 the dissemination of data from the PDC stage right up to

 the Port. No fault has been found in the dissemination of

 data in the TBT architecture. The data was disseminated

 from the Ports to the Colo rack of the TMs and every TM

 had equal, unrestricted, transparent and fair access. 147. The allocation of IP was to be distributed equitably by

 the NSE team. This was a human intervention and had

 nothing to do with the TBT architecture. We have

 already held that there was no requirement of a

 randomizer to be installed, namely, after the Port and

 before the Colo rack as there was randomness in the

 dissemination of the data. Even otherwise, such addition 136 of a randomizer had nothing to do with the existing

 architecture or the distribution of its data. Similarly,

 installing a load balancer was an additional

 hardware/software to be installed in the architecture for

 better distribution of the IP allocation but the same had

 nothing to do with the dissemination of the data by the

 TBT architecture. Similarly, failure to monitor frequent

 connection to the secondary server was a human failure

 and had nothing to do with the functioning of the

 dissemination of the data by the TBT architecture. 148. Thus, the finding of the WTM that because of

 inequitable distribution in the allocation of IPs, absence

 of load balancer and non-inclusion of randomizer and

 failure to monitor frequent connection to the secondary

 server did not ensure a level playing field for TMs

 subscribing to the TBT data feed of NSE and,

 consequently, NSE failed to provide equal, unrestricted

 and fair access is wholly erroneous. 149. The choice of architecture chosen by NSE was never

 doubted. There is no charge against NSE with regard to

 the choice of the TBT architecture. In fact, it has come

 on record that many countries were using the TBT

 architecture. Considering the evidence that has come on

 record and, upon an analysis of the evidence made by us,

 we are of the view that there was a randomness in the

 dissemination of the data/information/tick in the TBT

 architecture starting from the PDC stage till the Ports and

 there was clear, unrestricted, transparent and fair access

 to all the TMs who received the data in their Colo rack

 from their respective Ports. We, thus, hold that there was

 no violation of Regulation 41(2) of SECC Regulations. 150. We also find that the conclusion drawn in paragraph

 10.1 of the impugned order is based on the finding given

 in paragraph 8.3.3.7, namely that the dissemination of

 data was asymmetric which could not be considered as

 fair and equitable and, consequently, resulted in violation 138 of Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations. In the first

 instance, this finding is purely perverse and cannot be

 accepted in as much as the choice of architecture was

 never disputed by the respondent. There was some

 randomness in the dissemination of data even from the

 Port to the Colo rack. It seems that the WTM has

 confused itself between randomness in the dissemination

 of a tick to that of dissemination of the tick being

 asymmetric. The randomness of the dissemination of the

 tick ensured clear and fair access and, consequently, the

 finding that since the dissemination of information was

 asymmetric therefore there was failure on the part of NSE

 to ensure equal and fair access is patently erroneous. 151. There is another aspect, the WTM in paragraph 10.1

 of the impugned order holds that NSE did not exercise

 due-diligence while putting in place the TBT architecture

 and, therefore, violated Regulation 41(1) of the SECC

 Regulations. The choice of the TBT architecture was 139 finalized and put into place in the year 2010 when the

 SECC Regulations, 2012 had not come into existence

 and, therefore, compliance of Regulation 41(2) at the

 stage of putting in place the TBT architecture would not

 and cannot arise. Thus, at the stage when the TBT

 architecture was installed the SECC Regulations had not

 come into existence and, therefore, invoking Regulation

 41(2) for failure of NSE to exercise due diligence while

 putting in place the TBT architecture does not arise. We

 are of the opinion that Regulation 41(2) of the SECC

 Regulation cannot be invoked for placing the TBT

 architecture which had already been placed in 2010. The

 Regulation is prospective in nature and cannot have

 retrospective application. 152. The charge is violation of Regulation 42(2) of the

 SECC Regulations. This provision relates to maintenance

 of books of accounts and records by the recognised

 clearing corporation and has nothing to do insofar as NSE 140 is concerned. Thus, finding of the WTM that NSE has

 violated Regulation 42(2) is patently erroneous.

 Similarly, the circular of 2015 is not applicable. The

 period when the TBT architecture was in use was from

 2010 to 2014. The circular of 2015 is prospective in

 nature and cannot apply retrospectively. 153. However, the circular of 30th March, 2012 is

 applicable which stipulates that the stock exchange while

 promoting algorithm trading will ensure that all

 arrangements, procedures and system capability to

 manage the load on their systems in such a manner so as

 to achieve consistent response time to all stock brokers

 and shall continuously study the performance of its

 systems and, if necessary, undertake system upgradation.

 In the instant case, we find that there was inequitable

 distribution of the IP connection which resulted in

 unequal load on various Ports. We also find that NSE

 should have provided a load balancer to equalize the load 141 on each server. We also find that no laid down policy or

 SOP was made to monitor frequent connection to the

 secondary server and, thus, there was a violation of

 circular of 2012. 154. The SCRA Act was framed with the object of

 preventing undesirable transaction in securities. The Act required all contracts in the securities to be dealt only on

 a recognized stock exchange. The Act conferred a larger

 responsibility upon the exchanges to ensure that

 undesirable transactions do not take place. In U.P. Stock

 Exchange Broker's Association and Ors. v. Securities

 and Exchange Board of India & Anr. , (2014) 3 Comp.

 LJ 462, the Allahabad High Court held: 155. The Jalan Committee report found that the

 information must be accessible to everyone and must be

 governed by a transparent and efficient market economy. 156. Considering the aforesaid, we are of the view that the

 TBT architecture provided equal, unrestricted, transparent

 and fair access of data disseminating from its TBT

 architecture to the TMs. There was no violation of

 Regulation 41(2) and 42(2) of the SECC Regulations.

 Further, the circular of 2015 is not applicable but there is

 a violation of the 2012 circular. However, there was a

 human failure while allocating IPs to TMs of various

 Ports and that there was inequitable distribution of IPs. 143 In this regard, a load balancer should have been placed in

 the system to ensure equitable distribution of the IPs. We

 also find that there was a human lapse in putting the

 system in place to monitor frequent connection to the

 secondary server by certain TMs whereby these TMs

 bypassed the load in the primary servers.

 Issue no.4 157. Liability of employees of NSE for violation of PFUTP

 Regulations and SECC Regulations. 158. 16 employees were issued notice and were charged

 for violating Section 12A(a) , (b) and (c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations,

 2003, Part A and Part B of schedule II of SECC

 Regulations read with Regulation 26(1) and (2) of SECC

 Regulations and clause 3.8.1 of SEBI master circular

 dated 31st December, 2010. The WTM after considering

 the replies and the evidence exonerated all the noticees of

 the charge of violation of PFUTP Regulations. The 144 WTM found that no fraud was committed by any of the

16 employees/noticees and exonerated 12 of the

employees from all the charges. The WTM, however,

found that Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna,

noticee nos.2 and 3 being Managing Directors of the

Stock Exchange (NSE) during the relevant period were

liable for the breaches of the provisions of SECC

Regulations. The WTM found that these noticees held

the senior most management position in NSE and being

in charge of the affairs of the conduct of the stock

exchange business, cannot limit their role to the non-

technology issues of the exchange and cannot abdicate

their responsibilities by citing limited knowledge in

certain spheres of business activities. The WTM came to

the conclusion that they were vested with the general and

overall responsibility of ensuring the implementation of

the principle of equal, fair and transparent access, under

Regulation 41 of SECC Regulations and were therefore 145 responsible for the overall efficiency of the stock

 exchange which they failed to do so. 159. The WTM also found Mr. Mahesh Soparkar and Mr.

 Deviprasad Singh, noticee nos.9 and 10 responsible for

 not monitoring the unauthorized connection in the

 secondary server. The WTM found that these two

 employees headed the Project Management Team (PMT)

 and were responsible in enforcing discipline with respect

 to the connections established by TMs in the secondary

 server. The WTM came to the conclusion that being

 Head of the PSM Team it was their responsibility to

 inform the Colo team with regard to the unauthorized

 connections being done by certain TMs on the secondary

 server and should have followed it up with the Colo team

 for stopping the connection of these TMs to the server.

 The WTM found that these two noticees failed to

 discharge their duties as PSM Team Heads and, 146 consequently, directed NSE to initiate enquiry under its

 employees Regulations. 160. Insofar as Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna is concerned, the WTM directed them to

 disgorge 25% of their salary drawn for the financial year

 2010-11 to 2012-13 and further prohibited them from

 associating with any listed Company or market

 infrastructure institution or any other market intermediary

 for a period of five years. 161. Insofar as NSE is concerned, the WTM directed NSE

 to disgorge a sum of Rs.624.89 crores along with interest

 calculated at the rate of 12% per annum from April 01,

 2014 and further prohibited NSE from accessing the

 securities market for a period of six months from the date

 of the order. The WTM further directed NSE to carry out

 system audit at frequent intervals, after through appraisal

 of the technological changes introduced from time to

 time, reconstitute its Standing Committee on Technology 147 at regular intervals to take stock of technological issues,

 and frame a clear policy on administering whistle blower

 complaints. The aforesaid direction has been passed

 under Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act. 162. Even though Section 11 had no provision for

 disgorgement of an amount, the Supreme Court held that

 the powers given to SEBI under Section 11 included the

 powers to issue directions for disgorgement. However,

 Explanation to Section 11B was inserted by Act no.27 of

 2014 which provided a direction for disgorgement of an

 amount equivalent to the wrongful gain or loss averted.

 For facility, the explanation to Section 11B is extracted

 hereunder: 163. From the above provision, it follows that any

 direction to disgorge must: 164. The contention of NSE is, that the direction to

 disgorge was made without providing an opportunity to 149 show that the quantification is inappropriate. It was

urged that the show cause notice failed to indicate the

nature of the measures or directions which the authority

proposed to take under Section 11 and 11B of the Act. It

was contended that the statutory authority was bound to

set out the exact nature of the measures which it proposed

to take in the show cause notice and by not providing the

requisite measure in the show cause notice the order of

disgorgement was wholly illegal and in violation of the

principles of natural justice. In support of his submission,

the learned counsel placed reliance in the case Gorkha

Security Services v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi & Ors. (2014) 9 SCC 105, wherein the Supreme court held: 165. It was also contended that NSE had been exonerated

 of the charges of fraud and unfair trade practices under

 the PFUTP Regulations. There is no finding of collusion

 or connivance with any TM. It was contended that the

 impugned order records that in the absence of any

 collusion or connivance with the TMs no violation of the

 provisions of PFUTP Regulations is made out. It was

 also contended that the charge of discrimination against

 any specific TM or accrual of any monetary benefit or

 unjust enrichment was also not proved and, consequently,

 contended that NSE did not indulge in any specific

 discrimination towards any specific TM which was in

 contravention of the SEBI Act , Rules or the Regulations. 151 It was contended that issues surrounding the functioning

 of a technology, namely, the TBT architecture cannot be

 considered either a transaction or an activity inviting

 directions under Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act. It

 was contended that since the TBT architecture was not

 under challenge no direction for disgorgement could have

 been passed. 166. It was also urged that before a direction of

 disgorgement could be passed it was necessary for the

 respondent to give a finding of ill-gotten gains or unfair

 profit or unjust enrichment made by NSE by the ill-gotten

 or unethical acts. It was contended that only a wrong

 doer who had made gains from the wrong doing can be

 asked to disgorge. In support of his submission, NSE

 relied upon the decision of this Tribunal in Karvy Stock

 Broking Ltd. v SEBI , 2008 SCC Online SAT 74, wherein

 this Tribunal held: 167. In National Securities Depository Ltd. v. Securities

 and Exchange Board of India , 2007 SCC OnLine SAT

 208, this Tribunal held: 168. It was urged that there has to be a causal link between

 the amounts directed to be disgorged and the alleged

 unjust enrichment derived from the violation. In this

 regard, reliance was made in Sec. & Exch. Comm'n v.

 Wills, 472 F. Supp. 1250, 1276 (D.D.C. 1978), which

 held: 169. In S.E.C. v. Wyly, 56 F. Supp. 3d 260, the US District

 Court of the Southern District of New York, set aside a

 SEC disgorgement order for failure to establish a causal

 nexus between the alleged wrongful conduct and

 wrongful gains sought to be disgorged. The Court held: 170. The D. C. Circuit Court in the case of S.E.C. v. First

 City Fin. Corp., 890 F.2d 1215, 1231 (D.C. Cir. 1989)

 held: Although the SEC bears the ultimate burden of
persuasion that its disgorgement figure reasonably
approximates the amount of unjust enrichment, we
believe the government's showing of appellants'
actual profits on the tainted transactions at least
presumptively satisfied that burden. Appellants, to
whom the burden of going forward shifted, were
then obliged clearly to demonstrate that the
disgorgement figure was not a reasonable
approximation. Defendants in such cases may make
such a showing, for instance, by pointing to
intervening events from the time of the violation. In
SEC v. MacDonald, 699 F.2d 47 (1st Cir.1983) (en
banc), the First Circuit reversed a district court
order requiring the defendant to disgorge all profits
from an illegal insider trade when the defendant had
held on to the stock for more than a year. The court
restricted the amount to a figure based on the price
of the stock ―a reasonable time after public
dissemination of the inside information.‖ Id. at 55.
Similarly, the Second Circuit in SEC v. Manor
Nursing Centers, Inc., 458 F.2d 1082 (2d Cir.1972),
refused to extend the disgorgement remedy to
income subsequently earned on the initial illegal
profits. In those cases, the defendant demonstrated a
clear break in or considerable attenuation of the
causal connection between the illegality and the
ultimate profits.‖ 157 171. It was, thus, urged that the direction of disgorgement

 has been made in the absence of any finding of any ill-

 gotten or wrongful gain and that the basis of

 disgorgement is on the finding of contravention of

 Regulations 41(1) and 42(2) of SECC Regulations read

 with SEBI circular of 2012. It was further urged that on

 the basis of a finding of the WTM that there was lack of

 due diligence on the part of the appellant in placing the

 TBT architecture, it still did not warrant a direction of

 disgorgement under Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act

 without even attempting to establish what gains were

 made or loss averted as a result of the alleged lack of due

 diligence. 172. It was also contended that direction of disgorgement,

 in the instant case was punitive and was not remedial in

 nature. In support of his submission, the learned counsel

 placed reliance upon a decision of this Tribunal Dushyant 158 N. Dalal v. SEBI, Appeal No. 182 of 2009, decided on

 November 12, 2010. 173. It was also urged that the direction for disgorgement

 was also disproportionate. It was contended that the basis

 for calculation of disgorgement was based on the

 percentage of NSE revenue from the operations which

 included co-location and non-colocation operations which

 could not be taken into consideration. At best, the

 disgorged amount could be taken for those transactions

 which were against the Acts, Rules and Regulations. It

 was contended that the profits sought to be disgorged

 were not profits that NSE had earned from the alleged

 acts of "omissions/ commissions" 174. On the other hand, SEBI has supported the order of

 the WTM and the directions issued under Section 11 and 11B . The contention of the respondent is, that the

 impugned order has been passed in terms of the powers

 conferred under Section 11 and 11B of the Act and 159 Section 12A of the SCRA Act. It was contended that the

 powers are wide and designed to account for any and all

 eventualities which may not have been contemplated at

 the time of framing the Regulations and that the measures

 illustrated in Section 11 and 11 B are only indicative and

 cannot be taken to be fetters on the powers of the

 respondent to pass directions in the interests of the

 protection of the participants of the securities market. 175. The respondent placed reliance in SEBI v. Alka

 Synthetics Ltd. , AIR 1999 Guj 221, wherein the Gujarat

 High Court held : 176. Similarly, the Delhi High Court in MZ Khan v. SEBI

 (AIR 1999 Del.164) held: 177. The Bombay High Court in Ramrakh R. Bohra v.

 SEBI (1999) 33 CLA 243 (Bom.) held: 178. This Tribunal in R.K. Agarwal vs. SEBI, Appeal no.1

 of 2001, held: 179. It was further held that: 180. In Anand Rathi v. SEBI 2002 (2) Bom CR 403 has

 held that: 181. In Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. vs. SEBI , 2007 SCC

 OnLine SAT 2, this Tribunal held: .......... As already observed, section 11 is the very heart
and soul of the Act. This provision has been
periodically amended and today it is substantially
different from what it was at its inception in the year
1992. The scope of the power has been considerably
widened. The introduction of sub section (4) 166 in section 11 and various other provisions
 like section 11B is indicative of the legislative intent.
 These provisions are meant to arm the Board with
 authority so as to be able to effectively exercise
 power and achieve the declared objectives of the
 Act. It is clear that a common thread runs through
 the various provisions of the Act and that is to
 empower the Board to take preventive as well as
 punitive measures so as to protect the investor and
 to promote the securities market. ..... In view of the above, we hold that the word 'inquiry'
 used in section 11(4) refers to the inquiries held
 under sections 11 , 11B , also to the enquiry under
 the inquiry regulations framed under section
 12(3) and also to the inquiry held under Chapter
 VIA and it is during the pendency of any of these
 inquiries that an interim order could be passed with
 a view to protect the interests of investors or in the
 interest of the market. It is in this background of the
 legal position that we have to examine the validity of
 the impugned order.‖ 182. In IL&FS Securities v. SEBI & Ors., A.No.138 of

 2019, this Tribunal held: 183. In Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v. SEBI, Appeal No.6 of

 2007 decided on 2nd May, 2009, this Tribunal held: 184. In Dushyant N. Dalal v. SEBI, Appeal No. 182 of

 2009, order dated 12th November 2010, it was argued that

 without a specific provision, direction to disgorge cannot

 be issued, but this Hon‟ble Tribunal held that no specific

 provision in the SEBI Act is required and the power to

 order disgorgement is inherent in the Board. The

 Supreme Court held: 185. In Mahavirsingh Chauhan v. SEBI, Appeal No. 393

 of 2018 dated 18th October 2019, it was held by this

 Tribunal that: 186. In Gagan Rastogi v. SEBI, Appeal No. 91 of 2015

 dated 12th February 2019, this Tribunal held: 187. Certain case laws on disgorgement under US

 Securities Laws were also cited. In this regard, we find

 that The Securities Exchange Act, 1934 did not include

 any separate statutory provision for disgorgement.

 However, in 1971, restitution of unlawful gains was

 considered and upheld in Securities Exchange

 Commission v. Texas Gulf [446 F.2d 1301 (2d Cir.

 1971)]. 188. In the year 1990, the US Congress conferred statutory

 sanction on the remedy of disgorgement by the enactment

 of the Security Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock

 Reform Act, 1990, which expressly authorised accounting

 and disgorgement in securities laws. 189. In SEC v. Great Lakes Equity [775 F. Supp. 211], it

 was held that unjust enrichment is not merely restricted to

 what remains in the pockets of the wrongdoer in the

 aftermath of a fraud, but rather includes the „value of the

 other benefits‟ which accrue to the wrongdoer through a

 scheme. These benefits may be in the form of interest free

 loans, improved reputation, cost defrayments, etc. Thus,

 the definition was given a much wider interpretation by

 the authority. 190. Further, in an order instituting cease-and-desist in the

 matter of credit-rating agency DBRS, Inc., SEC dated

 October 26, 2015 charged the Respondent for

 misrepresenting its surveillance methodology for ratings 171 of certain complex financial instruments during three

 years and directed the Respondent to disgorge an amount

 of USD 2.7 million. In this case, disgorgement was

 directed even though there was no wrongful gain or loss

 caused. It was thus urged that the concept of

 disgorgement cannot be restricted to just recalling

 unlawful gains which would lead to it being given a very

 narrow interpretation. 191. In another matter of TPG Capital Advisors, LLC,

 dated December 21, 2017 SEC charged the Respondent

 for inadequate disclosures that involved a breach of

 fiduciary duty. It failed adequately to disclose or obtain

 the consent of the Funds to its receipt of accelerated

 monitoring fees. Despite the practice of receiving

 accelerated monitoring fees, TPG did not adopt or

 implement any written policies or procedures reasonably

 designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act or its

 rules arising from the conflicts of interest associated with 172 the undisclosed receipt of fees. The Respondent was, inter

 alia, directed to disgorge an amount of USD 9.4 million

 along with interest. 192. Similarly, in the matter of Kestra Advisory Services,

 LLC dated July 9, 2015, the Respondent breached its

 fiduciary duty to advisory clients by failing to provide

 full and fair disclosure regarding two types of

 compensation paid to its predecessor firm and affiliated

 broker, and the conflicts of interest. Further, the

 Respondent did not adopt or implement written policies

 and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations

 of the Advisers Act and the Rules thereunder, and was

 therefore directed to disgorge an amount of USD 7.2

 million along with interest and a civil penalty. 193. It was thus urged that in the US jurisprudence, the

 term "disgorgement" has been given a much wider

 meaning and the said power has been used even in cases

 of violation of statutory obligations and has not just been 173 restricted to cases wherein an unlawful gain has been

 made or a loss has been avoided. 194. In Janak Chimanlal Dave vs. SEBI, SAT A.No.446 of 2020, decided on 20th September, 2021, this Tribunal

 held: 195. It was urged that disgorgement from salary can be

 ordered. In support of this submission reliance was 174 placed in the matter of SEC v Church of God Inc., 429

 F. Supp. 2d 1045, wherein SEC held that: 196. From the aforesaid decisions, it is clear that SEBI has

 wide powers to issue directions for disgorgement under Section 11 and 11B of the Act. However, explanation to Section 11B , as inserted by Act No.27 of 2014 gave

 specific power to SEBI to issue a direction for

 disgorgement of an amount equivalent to the wrongful 175 gain. Further, the direction to disgorge must be in

 relation to any transaction or activity and that such

 transaction or activity is in contravention to the

 provisions of the SEBI Act or the Regulations made

 thereunder. Further, the person must have made profit or

 averted loss from such transaction or activity. 197. Disgorgement means that the act of giving up

 something, namely profit obtained by illegal or unethical

 acts. It is a repayment of ill-gotten gains by the wrong

 doer. Disgorgement is also an equitable remedy that is

 designed to prevent a wrongdoer from unjustly enriching

 himself as a result of his illegal conduct. It is not

 necessary that in each and every case there should be a

 direction to disgorge profits merely because the

 provisions of the Act or Regulations have been violated.

 Disgorgement should be ordered only where persons have

 made gains or averted loss/losses as a result of their

 illegal/unethical acts. 198. Thus, it becomes essential first to pin point a person

 and hold him guilty of making illegal gains and only

 thereafter direct him to disgorge the ill-gotten gains.

 Further, there must be a finding of ill-gotten gains by ill-

 gotten or unethical acts. 199. We are also of the view that the disgorgement

 amount should not exceed the wrongful gain made or loss

 averted by such contravention. Further, the burden of

 showing that the amount sought to be disgorged is

 equivalent to the wrongful gain is upon SEBI. In addition

 to the above, the direction to disgorge an amount must

 establish a causal nexus between the wrongful conduct

 and wrongful gains. 200. The primary function and duty of SEBI is to protect

 the interest of the investors in securities and to regulate

 the securities market. This function is performed under Sections 11 and 11B of the Act. Section 11B was

 introduced by Parliament to enable SEBI to issue 177 directions if it was necessary in the interests of investors

 or orderly development of the securities market. The

 scope of powers under Sections 11 and 11B has been

 considerably widened through various amendments

 issued from time to time. The amendments made

 indicates the legislative intent, namely to arm SEBI with

 such powers so as to enable SEBI to effectively exercise

 power and achieve the objects of the Act and to take

 preventive measure so as to protect the investors and to

 promote the securities market. 201. Disgorgement is not a punishment but only an

 equitable remedy to prevent a wrongdoer from unjustly

 enriching himself as a result of his wrongful acts. As

 stated earlier, disgorgement should be the amount

 equivalent to the wrongful gain made or loss averted by

 such contravention. 202. In the light of the aforesaid, we have already held

 that the inequitable distribution of IPs had nothing to do 178 with the TBT architecture. The dissemination of

 information/data from the PDC center to the POP

 Receiver and thereafter to the Port were random, namely

 there was randomness in the dissemination of data from

 the PDC center right up to the Port and no fault has been

 found in the dissemination of data in the TBT

 architecture. We also find that the data that was

 disseminated from the Port to the Colo rack of the TM

 was equal, unrestricted and transparent and there was fair

 access. 203. We have also found that there was no violation of

 Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations. We also

 observed that Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations

 cannot be invoked for placing the TBT architecture which

 has already been placed in 2010. 204. We found that the TBT architecture provided equal,

 unrestricted, transparent and fair access to data

 dissemination from its TBT architecture to the TMs. We 179 also found that there was lack of due diligence while

 allocating IPs to various Ports and that there was unequal

 load on various Ports and a load balancer would have

 ensured equal distribution of IPs. We also find that there

 was a human lapse in not putting the system in place to

 monitor frequent connections of certain TMs to the

 secondary server. 205. For this lack of human intervention in failing to

 monitor frequent connection to the secondary server by

 certain TMs, equitable direction under Sections 11 and 11B could be issued, but in our view there was no

 occasion to issue a direction for disgorgement. The

 direction for disgorgement is patently erroneous since we

 do not find any unethical act/acts on the part of NSE. 206. NSE has not indulged in any unethical act nor has

 unjustly enriched itself as a result of any wrongful act.

 The direction to disgorge must be in relation to any

 transaction or activity which is contravention of the 180 provisions of the SEBI Act or its Regulations. The

 direction to disgorge can be issued when it is found that

 the person has made profit through illegal or unethical

 acts and is not necessary that in each and every case a

 direction to disgorge should be passed merely because

 some provisions of the Act or Regulations have not been

 adhered to. In the instant case, the lack of due diligence

 is not on account of any violation of any provisions of the

 Act or the Regulations or circulars but is on account of

 human failure to comply with the circulars completely in

 letter and spirit. 207. We further find that the WTM has exonerated NSE of

 the charge of violation of the PFTUP Regulations holding

 that no fraud was committed by NSE or its employees.

 We, therefore, find that the activity of NSE was not in

 contravention of any provisions of the SEBI Act or the

 Regulations or circulars made therein and it is only a case

 of non-adherence of a circular to some extent. No doubt 181 that SCRA Act was framed with the object of preventing

 undesirable transactions in securities. The Act requires

 all contracts in securities to be dealt only on a recognized

 stock exchange. A larger responsibility was placed on the

 stock exchange to ensure that undesirable transactions do

 not take place. In the instant case, the information

 disseminated from the TBT architecture was accessible to

 everyone through a transparent mode which was equal,

 unrestricted and gave fair access. The lapse on the part of

 NSE is not ensuring equitable distribution of IPs can only

 invite a penalty or a direction under Section 11 and 11B but under no circumstances a direction in the nature of

 disgorgement could be passed in the facts and

 circumstance of the present case. In our view, the

 direction to disgorge an amount was totally unwarranted. 208. In view of the aforesaid, it is not necessary for us to

 go into the question raised by the appellant, namely, that

 the respondent was duty bound to set out the exact nature 182 of the measure which it proposed to take in the show

 cause notice and that it did not provide the requisite

 measures in the show cause notice and, consequently, the

 order of disgorgement was in violation of the principles

 of natural justice. 209. Insofar as Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna are concerned, the show cause notice alleged

 that Mr. Ravi Narain being the Managing Director and

 Chief Executive Officer („MD and CEO‟) of NSE from

 2000 to March, 2013 and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna, being

 the Deputy Managing Director from 2008 to 2010; Joint

 Managing Director („JMD‟) from 2010 to 2013 and Chief

 Executive Officer („CEO‟) from April, 2013 to

 December, 2016 and during the relevant period failed to

 take any steps to ensure proper systems, checks and

 balances so as to provide fair and equitable access to all.

 The show cause notice alleged that adherence to the

 principle of fair and equitable access was left to the 183 technology team without any specific guidance and, thus,

 failed to perform their role in establishing adequate

 systems which led to the scenario whereby certain

 brokers were allowed to breach the norms of fair and

 equitable access. It was also alleged in the show cause

 notice that it was the duty of Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms.

 Chitra Ramkrishna to prevent manipulation of the system

 architecture and ensure fair, transparent and equitable

 access and by not taking preventive as well as curative

 measures proactively, they facilitated fraud and

 manipulation by OPG. It was, thus, alleged that Mr. Ravi

 Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna violated Section

 12A(a) , (b) and (c) of the SEBI Act read with Regulations

 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations and SECC

 Regulations. 210. The appellants Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna sought to make out a case that they were

 utterly unaware of the TBT Architecture. It was 184 contended that they had no technical/computer

 knowledge and, for that purpose, had employed experts

 and took decision on the basis of the advice given by the

 experts. It was also contended that Mr. Ravi Apte and

 Mr. N. Murlidharan who were the Chief Technology

 Officer („CTO‟) were involved in choosing the

 technology and that Dr. V.A. Sastry who was a

 technology expert with a Ph.D. in computer applications

 gave his expert opinion and, consequently, are not

 responsible for the alleged violations. 211. The WTM found that Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna were holding the position of MD and CEO

 during the relevant point of time and having held the

 senior most management position in NSE and, being in

 charge of the affairs of the conduct of the stock exchange

 business, could not abdicate their responsibility by citing

 limited knowledge on technology issues. The WTM held

 that being vested with general and overall responsibility 185 of ensuring the implementation of the principle of equal,

 fair and transparent access, as mandated under Regulation

 41 of the SECC Regulations Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms.

 Chitra Ramkrishna being the MDs during the relevant

 period are liable for breach of the provisions of the SECC

 Regulations. The WTM consequently directed Mr. Ravi

 Narain to disgorge 25% of the salary drawn for the

 financial years 2010-2011, 2012-13 and prohibited Mr.

 Ravi Narain from associating with any listed company or

 a market infrastructure institution or any other market

 intermediary for a period of five years. The WTM further

 directed Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna to disgorge 25% of the

 salary drawn for the financial year 2013-14 prohibited her

 from associating with any listed company or a market

 infrastructure institution or any other market intermediary

 for a period of five years. 212. Mr. Ravi Narain holds a degree in Economics and

 according to him does not have any computer technology 186 qualifications. He became the first Deputy Manager of

 NSE and became it MD and CEO in the year 2000. Mr.

 Ravi Narain ceased to be the MD and CEO on 31st

 March, 2017 but continued till June, 2017 as a Non-

 Executive Director, after which he left NSE. 213. Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna was with NSE since inception

 and is a qualified Chartered Accountant. According to

 her, she is not a technical expert nor does she have any IT

 qualification. Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna was promoted as

 Deputy Managing Director in 2003 and all department

 heads were directly reporting to her. After Mr. Ravi

 Narain, Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna became the MD and CEO

 from April, 2013 onwards and resigned on 3rd December,

 2016. 214. We have already held that the TBT architecture

 provided equal, unrestricted and fair access to the data

 dissemination from its TBT architecture to the TMs. We

 also found that there was no violation of Regulation 41(2) 187 of the SECC Regulations. The WTM has also found that

 no fraud was found against the appellants Mr. Ravi

 Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna nor were they

 facilitating any manipulation done by OPG. 215. We also find that being the head of the institution it is

 not necessary that the person should have intricate

 knowledge in technical matters and for such purposes

 even the head of the institution is required to take

 guidance from experts. In this regard, we find that

 experts were appointed and decisions were taken based

 on the expert advice and policies were implemented. In

 this regard, we find that Dr. V.A. Sastry was a technical

 expert with Ph.D. in computer applications and had 30

 years of experience in the software industry including

 with Infosys Ltd. The Board of NSE used to rely on his

 technical expertise. This fact has not been disputed in the

 impugned order. Further, we find that NSE had Chief

 Technology Officers, Mr. Ravi Apte and Mr. N. 188 Murlidharan who as technical experts were involved in

 the choosing of the technology, namely, the TBT

 architecture for the Colo facility. These persons were

 also noticees in those proceedings and their submissions

 have been recorded in detail which upon a perusal we

 find that these noticees have given detailed reasons

 justifying the choice of the TBT architecture. We also

 find that these two noticees have been expressly

 exonerated of the charges leveled against them with

 regard to the choice of the TBT architecture and

 facilitating fraud and manipulation by OPG, etc. 216. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that Mr.

 Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna being the MD

 and CEO of the stock exchange at the relevant movement

 of time cannot abdicate their responsibility by citing

 limited knowledge in certain spheres of the business

 activities. In the changing scenario in the corporate world

 the functions are delegated to professionals who become 189 responsible for their acts and conduct. While functions

 may be delegated, duty of care, due diligence, verification

 by the top management cannot be abdicated. The MD

 and CEO are responsible for the day to day affairs in the

 running of the exchange and cannot pass on the

 responsibility of non-implementation of the load balancer

 or non-monitoring of the secondary server. The

 responsibility at the end of the day falls squarely upon the

 MD and CEO. The implementation of the Colocation

 technology was carried out under the overall supervision

 of Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna and,

 therefore, they cannot abdicate their responsibility for the

 lapse that has been incurred in the monitoring of certain

 areas. 217. We, however, find that there is no finding to the fact

 that Mr. Ravi Narain or Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna has made

 profit or wrongful gain which is a prerequisite for

 issuance of a direction under Sections 11 and 11B for 190 disgorgement. In the absence of any finding of wrongful

 gain being made by Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra

 Ramkrishna, we are of the opinion that no direction for

 disgorgement can be made especially when there is no

 finding of fraud, unfair trade practice or collusion with

 any TM. 218. We also note that the direction to disgorge 25% of the

 salary is patently erroneous. The power under Sections

 11 and 11B for disgorgement cannot be extended to

 recover money from salary. Salary is a periodical

 payment for one‟s labour. As per Black‟s Law

 Dictionary Eight Edition salary means compensation for

 services. Salary is given to a person as a remuneration

 for the work that he does in an organization. Salary is not

 a profit nor can it be termed as an unfair gain for the work

 which the person has done in the organization. If the

 person is not in service/employed, the question of

 disgorgement from the salary does not arise. Recovery 191 from salary can only be done when the person is in

 service/employed. Disgorgement under Sections 11 and 11B can only be made for illegal or unethical acts through

 such transactions or activity which is in contravention to

 the provisions of the SEBI Act or the provisions made

 thereunder. In the absence of any illegal or any unethical

 acts and in the absence of any finding of unlawful gain

 being made by them the direction to disgorge 25% of the

 salary is wholly illegal and cannot be sustained.

 Directions under Sections 11 and 11B are equitable in

 nature. Disgorgement has been held to be an equitable

 direction. In our opinion, direction for disgorgement

 from salary amounts to penal recovery. It becomes

 punitive and not equitable. 219. We do not agree with the decision in the matter of

 United States SEC v Church of God Inc., 429 F. Supp.

 2d 1045, (supra). No reason or analogy has been given

 as to why disgorgement from salary was made. In the 192 context of Sections 11 and 11B of the Act, the decision

 (supra) is not applicable. 220. Now we take the appeal of OPG. The charge against

 OPG and its Directors are as under: 221. Based on the aforesaid charges, for reasons best

 known to the WTM only four issues were framed namely: 222. The WTM exonerated OPG and its Directors on issue

 nos.1 and 2 and found OPG and its Directors guilty of

 unfair access and advantage by consistently logging into

 the secondary POP servers, and on that basis, made unfair

 gain of Rs.15.57 crores. 223. The WTM accordingly prohibited OPG from

 accessing the securities market and from buying, selling

 or otherwise dealing in securities for a period of five

 years. The Directors were also restrained from accessing

 the securities market for a period of five years. Further, 196 OPG in its capacity as a stock broker was directed not to

 take any new clients for a period of one year and further

 directed OPG and its Directors to disgorge an amount of

 ₹15.57 crores along with interest at the rate of 12% per

 annum from April 7, 2014 onwards, till the date of

 payment. 224. On issue no.1, the WTM after considering the

 material evidence on record found that the total number

 of first connect by OPG was 137 days out of 528 trading

 days during the period February, 2012 to 6th April, 2014.

 The WTM upon analysis of the evidence also came to a

 conclusion that advantage accruing to the first connect

 would not continue throughout the day and depending

 upon the load factor in front of each Port, it may get

 diffused and diluted in the course of the trading day to a

 „probabilistic advantage‟. This conclusion was drawn

 considering that while it was possible to identify the POP

 server that logs in first to the PDC and the Sender Port of 197 that POP Server which receives the data first, at the

 starting point of the trading day, the subsequent changes

 in dissemination sequence between the Ports or between

 the POP Servers cannot be ascertained because of the

 variance in the load factor at various Ports of different

 POP servers. This is on account of the fact that the data

 correlating the early login or first connect at each Port

 level was not available for the relevant period. The

 WTM therefore concluded that even though OPG

 consistently logged in to the POP server it did not gain

 any preferential access to TBT architecture and,

 consequently, decided issue no.1 in favour of OPG

 holding that even though OPG logged in first across POP

 server it did not gain any advantage. 225. On issue no.2, the WTM again came to the conclusion

 that even though OPG were allotted several IPs and were

 allocated to a single Port enabling it to establish 1st, 2nd,

 3rd and even 4th connection to the POP server it did not 198 gain any advantage over other TMs. The WTM held that

 since data dissemination occurs first to Port 1 of the POP

 server and then to Port 2 and then to Port 3 OPG was

 allotted Port 1 on only one primary POP server

 (TBTCOLO26) and the secondary POP server

 (TBTCOLO27). The WTM came to the conclusion that

 assigning multiple IPs to OPG on single Port did not

 crowd out the other TMs as data dissemination occurred

 first to POP server and thereafter to different Ports and

 that similar process of allocating multiple IPs on single

 Port were also given to other TMs. Consequently, issue

 no.2 was also decided in favour of OPG and its Directors. 226. Even though there was a specific charge that OPG

 disregarded the norms of NSE and that NSE continued to

 permit OPG to connect to the secondary POP server

 further, NSE did not prevent OPG from accessing the

 securities market and this was possible only through

 active connivance of NSE and OPG. In this regard, we 199 observe that there is no finding or discussion relating to

any connivance of OPG and its Directors with any

employee/officials of NSE. The WTM has also found

that the charge of collusion and connivance of NSE and

OPG was not substantiated as there was no sufficient

evidence. Further, there is a discussion in the impugned

order on the issue that OPG through its Directors

concealed/destroyed vital information but no

consequential penalty/directions has been issued. When

an allegation has been made in the show cause notice, it

was the duty of the WTM to frame as an issue and decide

that matter. We further observe that WTM fell in error in

exonerating the appellant on Issue no.2. Admittedly, the

OPG had multiple IPs to single Ports and established 1st,

2nd, 3rd and even 4th connect to the POP Servers as a result

it gained unfair advantage over other TMs. The tick

received by other TM was after it was received by OPG

causing loss of those few seconds which was 200 advantageous to OPG and disadvantageous to other TMs.

 This aspect has not been considered. 227. On issue no.3, the WTM came to the conclusion that

 unfair advantage was gained by OPG through its

 secondary POP servers connections. 228. On the issue as to whether OPG gained an unfair

 advantage and access by consistently logging into the

 secondary server for a large number of days, the show

 cause notice alleged as under: 229. The WTM after considering the submissions of OPG

 and the material evidence on record as well as the TAC

 report and Deloitte report came to the conclusion that

 OPG was connecting to the secondary server on a regular

 basis and at times had logged in only on the secondary

 server and did not log on the primary POP server. The

 WTM further found that the load on the secondary server

 was very low and inspite of several warnings being issued

 by NSE to shift to the primary server OPG continued to

 ignore those warnings and continued to login on the

 secondary server. The WTM did not accept the

 contention of OPG that it was facing disconnection issues

 which resulted in OPG logging on to the secondary

 server. The WTM found that on account of low load on

 the secondary server OPG gained advantage over other

 TMs who were only logged in to the primary server and,

 therefore, on account of low load factor OPG had faster

 access to the data dissemination from the TBT 203 architecture. The WTM further found that OPG

 displayed complete disregard to the circular and

 guidelines as well as the norms laid down by NSE for

 moving to the secondary POP server and, consequently,

 had indulged in unfair trade practice which was violative

 of Regulation 4(1) of the PFUTP Regulations. 230. In this regard, the contention of the learned senior

 counsel for OPG is that the NSE circular dated 31st

 August, 2009, the Colocation guidelines dated 8th August,

 2011 and the updated guidelines dated 16th April, 2012

 did not contain restriction on the usage of the secondary

 server. These circulars/guidelines only informed the TMs

 with regard to the introduction of the Colocation services

 at the NSE premises. It only provided the information as

 to the facilities that would be made available at the

 Colocation and the process for member applications. It

 was urged that the guidelines dated 8th August, 2011

 which was updated on 16th April, 2012 only provided that 204 ―Member's should always check the secondary TBT
 parameters are working fine with their application
 in case of non-availability of data from TBT primary
 source they can move to secondary source‖. 231. It was urged that the updated guidelines only advised

 the TMs to connect to the secondary server as against

 barring the same and, consequently, the only way to do so

 was by initiating a secondary server connection and

 staying connected to it. The learned senior counsel

 contended that there was no Regulation or norms in

 relation to usage of the secondary server and for

 reprimanding or punishing a TMs for accessing the

 secondary server and, consequently, cannot be charged

 for connecting to the secondary server. It was urged that

 NSE itself admitted that there was no restriction,

 regulation or conditions regarding the usage of

 connection of the secondary server and that NSE had left

 the usage of secondary server to the discretion of the

 TMs. It was contended that since the secondary server 205 was always in active mode, the TMs were free to connect

 to the secondary servers at all times. It was urged that

 there was no violation of any norms for using the

 secondary server. 232. It was also urged that 67 out of 108 TMs were

 connected to the secondary server and only directions

 under Section 11 and 11B has been issued to OPG which

 is arbitrary and discriminatory. It was contended that

 during September to October, 2011, OPG faced

 disconnection issues with the NSE servers which

 continued in the subsequent years. It was contended that

 disconnection/disruption of the servers on a trading day

 even for a few seconds can result in huge financial losses

 and adversely impact the business of OPG. Frequent

 disconnection resulted in potential loss of business and

 this frequent disconnection resulted in connection to the

 secondary server. It was contended that between

 December, 2012 to May, 2014 there were a total of 206 35,817 disconnections from the primary server on 357

 days which came to 98 disconnections per day. NSE was

 aware of such disconnection as OPG made certain

 complaints in this regard which remained unattended and

 which has not been considered in the impugned order. It

 was also urged that in order to avoid trade losses, OPG

 connected one or two IPs to the secondary server and

 minimal business was conducted through the secondary

 server connections. 233. On the other hand, the respondent has supported the

 order passed by the WTM and contended that OPG by

 consistently logging on to the secondary server gained

 advantage over the other TMs as it had less load and,

 therefore, the data was disseminated faster to OPG before

 it reached other TMs. OPG gained advantage and by not

 following the norms laid down by NSE, OPG indulged in

 unfair trade practice in securities which was in violation 207 of Regulation 4(1) read with the Code of Conduct as

 specified in the Stock Brokers Regulations. 234. We find from the evidence that OPG was connected

 to the secondary server in the Futures and Options

 Segment on 31% of the number of trading days in the

 calendar year 2012; 99% of the number of trading days in

 the calendar year 2013; 95% of the number of trading

 days in the calendar year 2014 and 38% of the number of

 trading days in the calendar year 2015. Further, the

 Deloitte report analysed and submitted that OPG was

 only connected to the secondary POP server on 63 trading

 days in 2012, 248 trading days in 2013, 232 trading days

 in 2014 and 92 trading days in 2015. This data clearly

 indicates that OPG was trading only through secondary

 server as on these many days OPG was not even

 connected to the primary POP server. 235. We find that OPG was connected 99% of the number

 of trading days in 2013 and 95% of trading days in 2014. 208 Admittedly, the evidence recorded in the Deloitte and

TAC reports shows that the load on the secondary server

was low and less crowded amongst all the POP servers.

The contention of OPG is that business transacted from

the secondary server was minimal is not supported by any

evidence and, in any case, we refuse to believe this

contention when we find that OPG was connected to

secondary server 99% of the trading days in 2013 and

95% of the trading days in 2014 and 248 days in 2013

and 232 days in 2014 when OPG was only connected to

the secondary server and was not connected to the

primary servers on these days. It is therefore hard to

believe that business conducted through secondary server

was low. It was urged vehemently that OPG was facing

disconnection issues from 2012 and there was a total of

35,817 disconnections from primary server on 357 days

between 2012-2014 which led OPG to connect and use

the secondary server. Such allegation has not been 209 proved and some complaints made in this regard cannot

 be taken to be the gospel truth regarding disconnection on

 all these days as from the logs furnished by OPG itself

 one finds that OPG was connecting to the secondary POP

 server consistently from 7 a.m. to 7.05 a.m. which

 disproves the theory of OPG being disconnected at odd

 times of the day during the trading days. The logging on

 the secondary server from morning itself prior to the start

 of the trading clearly indicated that OPG was

 continuously logging in to the secondary POP server

 irrespective of disconnection issues relating to the

 primary POP server. The contention raised by the

 appellant in this regard is clearly an afterthought and

 against the material evidence. 236. In this regard, the WTM has analysed the complaints

 referred by OPG and found that complaints were only

 made in the Futures and Options Segment on five days.

 Further, OPG itself stated that disconnection in the 210 primary server was less frequent in 2013. These facts

 have not been disputed before us and in view of the

 admission that disconnection to the primary POP server

 was less frequent in 2013 yet the evidence indicates that

 OPG was connected to the secondary server on 248 days

 without being connected to the primary server in 2013

 and that OPG was connected to the secondary server on

 99% of the number of trading days in 2013. In this

 regard, the contention that OPG was connected to the

 secondary server on account of disconnection issues

 cannot be accepted as it is unimaginable that OPG faced

 disconnections on 95% to 99% in 2013-2014. 237. We also find that between January, 2012 to June,

 2012, NSE had issued several warnings with regard to

 connecting to the secondary server and advised OPG to

 shift to the primary server. In spite of issuance of

 warnings OPG continued to remain connected to the

 secondary server which has been analysed and observed 211 in table 20 of the impugned order. This analysis has not

 been disputed by OPG before us. This shows scant

 regards to the norms and guidelines laid down by OPG

 and taking advantage of the laxity by NSE. 238. Since the secondary server was always in active mode

 and running without any time lag and in view of the

 finding that there was less load on the secondary server as

 it was less crowded OPG by consistently logging on the

 secondary server had advantage over TMs logged in

 normal POP servers. Because of the low load since it as

 less crowded on the secondary server OPG gained

 advantage in accessing the data faster than other TMs.

 The variance in time in terms of millisecond and

 microsecond in respect of data was immensely significant

 which was to the advantage of OPG when it accessed data

 from the secondary server. Since the delivery of the data

 can be done only to one recipient at a time OPG 212 connections has to be looked from this aspect and in this

 background. 239. Admittedly, the circular dated 31st August, 2009 was

 not the only circular issued by NSE with regard to

 Colocation facilities. NSE also issued guidelines on 8th

 August, 2011 and 16th April, 2012 wherein TMs were

 advised to move to the secondary server in case of non-

 availability of data from the TBT primary source.

 Guidelines was clear that TMs were required to access

 the data from the primary POP server and the secondary

 POP server connection was to be utilized only when there

 was non-availability of data from the primary POP server.

 Emails were written to OPG inspite of which they

 continued to stay connected with the secondary server.

 We are of the opinion that OPG displayed complete

 disregard for the norms laid down by NSE in its

 circular/guidelines for moving to the secondary server

 such disregard for the norms and the manner in which 213 OPG was connected to the secondary server amounted to

an unfair trade practice which, in our opinion, is violative

of Regulation 4(1) of the PFUTP Regulations. In this

regard, Regulation 4(1) of the PFTUP Regulations is

extracted hereunder: Explanation.-For the removal of doubts, it is
 clarified that any act of diversion, misutilisation
 or siphoning off of assets or earnings of a company
 whose securities are listed or any concealment of
 such act or any device, scheme or artifice to
 manipulate the books of accounts or financial
 statement of such a company that would directly or
 indirectly manipulate the price of securities of that
 company shall be and shall always be deemed to
 have been considered as manipulative,
 fraudulent and an unfair trade practice in the
 securities market.‖ 214 240. Whether an act or practice is unfair is to be

 determined by the facts and circumstances surrounding

 the transaction. In the context, the PFUTP Regulations a

 trade practice may be unfair if the conduct undermines

 the good faith dealing involved in the transactions and

 undermine the ethical standards between parties engaged

 in the business transactions. 241. In Rakhi Trading Pvt. Ltd.v. SEBI (2018) 13 SCC

 753, the Supreme Court held that practice which does not

 conform to the fair and transparent principles of trade in

 the stock market is unfair trade practice. 242. In SEBI v. Kanhaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel &

 Others , 2017 SCC Online SC 1148, the Supreme

 Court held that the concept of unfairness appears to be

 broader than and includes the concept of „deception‟ or

 „fraud‟. 243. Thus, OPG repeatedly connecting to the secondary

 server almost on a daily basis without any valid reason 215 and ignoring the warning and advice given by NSE for

 the purposes of gaining unfair advantage over other TMs

 is, in our opinion, an unfair trade practice which is

 prohibited under Regulation 4(1) of the PFUTP

 Regulations. 244. The show cause notice alleged that OPG gained

 materially by being the first logger as well as by

 connecting to the secondary server. In this regard, NSE

 had appointed ISB to calculate the profits earned by TMs

 including OPG especially on days when they logged in

 first to the PDC either from the primary server or from

 the secondary server. The ISB in its report took 30 days

 on sample basis and analysed the same for the period

 2012 and 2013 which were the days when OPG had

 consistently logged in first. ISB in its report submitted

 that OPG made higher profits close to Rs.25 crores when

 they logged in early. Based on this ISB report, the show 216 cause notice directed OPG to show cause as to why the

 profit of Rs.25 crores should not be disgorged. 245. The WTM after considering the material evidence

 held that the computation of profit made by ISB in its

 report is on the basis of early login by OPG. The WTM

 in paragraph 8.39 of the impugned order held that the

 computation based on analysis of first login cannot be

 adopted. In view of the finding given by the WTM in

 paragraph 8.13 that the first connect early login did not

 give any unfair advantage to OPG and that only a

 probabilistic advantage could be gained by TMs on

 account of early login on such POP servers, the WTM on

 the aforesaid basis held that the computation of unfair

 gains as made out in the show cause notice to the extent

 of first login made by OPG cannot be accepted or

 adopted. 246. The WTM, however, took into consideration table

 A11 and A15 of the ISB report and based on the 217 calculations made in table XXI of the impugned order

 came to the conclusion that OPG had made a profit of

 Rs.15.57 crores on account of unauthorized connection to

 the secondary server. 247. In our opinion, the calculation of profits made on the

 basis of ISB report is patently erroneous. Admittedly, the

 ISB report was made on the allegations that OPG by

 being the first logger/early connection gained materially

 for the purpose of analyzing the profits the sample taken

 of the trading made in the Futures and Options Segment

 was on the basis of OPG logging in first on those days. 248. When a categorical finding has been given by the

 WTM and we have also arrived at the same finding that

 early login or first logger did not create any advantage the

 basis of calculation of profits or unlawful gain cannot be

 made under this criterion. 249. The ISB report used First-In-First-Out (FIFO)

 methodology to calculate both intraday and overnight 218 profits. Intraday profits are profits generated through

 positions that are opened and closed on the same day.

 Overnight profits are profits generated through positions

 opened on a prior day and closed on that particular day.

 The definition of various profit terminologies used in the

 anaysis is as under: 250. A perusal of the terminology „First Prop‟ indicates

 that the profits made by the TM is on the basis of its

 trades made on days when he logged in first into a Port. 219 251. The WTM has calculated the unlawful gain on the

 basis of table A11 and A15 of the ISB report. A perusal

 of the aforesaid tables indicates that the calculation has

 been made on the basis of „First Prop‟ and „Non-First

 Prop‟. The „First Prop‟ analysis is based on when OPG

 logged in first. When the WTM has given a finding that

 early logging in does not give any advantage and could

 only be given a probabilistic advantage the question of

 calculating profits on the basis of early login becomes

 wholly erroneous. The WTM could only consider

 probabilistic advantage, if any, which the OPG may have

 gained by being the first logger. 252. Thus, on this aforesaid short point, the calculation of

 unlawful gain made by the WTM cannot be accepted. 253. Admittedly, seven reports of experts were considered

 while passing the impugned order. OPG submitted a

 report of another expert which is called the „Pasumarthy

 Report‟ which report was rejected by the WTM. OPG 220 submitted that there are infirmities in the investigation

 carried out by SEBI and there are deficiencies in the

 report submitted by Deloitte, TAC, EY etc. The appellant

 contended that the Pasumarthy Report should be taken

 into consideration. 254. Upon a perusal of the Pasumarthy Report, we find that

 it deals with several allegations which has been dealt in

 the impugned order and has been dropped as highlighted

 in paragraph no.8.13 and 8.15 of the impugned order.

 Further, the Pasumarthy Report does not dwell into the

 unauthorized connection by OPG to the secondary server.

 Further, in our view, the Pasumarthy Report does not

 submit its own finding. It only relies on the findings of

 earlier expert committee‟s report. The Pasumarthy

 Report has not based its findings on independent research

 and, therefore, in our opinion the WTM rightly rejected

 the Pasumarthy Report. 255. Before we conclude, we must observe that when

 serious allegations were made against a first level

 regulator, namely, NSE, SEBI should have been proactive

 and should have conducted the investigation seriously.

 We find that SEBI had adopted a slow approach and, in

 fact was placing a protective cover over NSE‟s alleged

 misdeeds. It is only when questions were placed on the

 floor of the Parliament that SEBI woke up and instituted

 an investigation. The scope of investigation was limited

 and not made under Section 11(4) but was conducted by

 another agency under Section 11C . In our opinion,

 considering the gravity of the alleged charges, SEBI

 should have itself conducted an investigation/enquiry

 instead of delegating it to NSE to conduct an

 investigation. It is strange and it does not stand to reason

 as to how SEBI directed NSE to conduct an investigation

 against itself. It is clear that a casual approach was

 adopted. 256. We also find that two separate orders of the same date

 were passed by the same Officer (WTM), one against

 NSE, Mr. Ravi Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna and

 the other order was passed against OPG. We find that

 there are contradictions in the findings arrived at on the

 same issue. For example, on the issue of early login, the

 WTM, in the order against NSE held that early log in by

 TM and OPG created an advantage. The WTM held that

 a TM who logs in first would be disseminated the data

 first at the start of the trading day and, therefore, has an

 advantage over other TMs. On the other hand, the WTM,

 in OPG matter held that the early log in by OPG did not

 make any unfair advantage. This anomaly is one such

 instance and there are more. It is not worthwhile to cull

 out all the contradictions but it is suffice to state that the

 same Officer who has passed the orders on the same date

 cannot make different analysis on the same subject/issue. 223 257. To conclude, we find that all the charges leveled in

 the show cause notice has not been proved. Many of the

 charges were dropped by the WTM himself while passing

 the impugned order. The WTM held that the charge of

 fraud and unfair trade practice by NSE under PFUTP

 Regulation is not made out. The charge that NSE and its

 employees have colluded with TMs, especially OPG has

 not been made out. The allegation of suppression of

 material facts and non-cooperation by NSE with the

 investigating authorities has not been made by the WTM. 258. We also find that early log in by TM did not create

 any advantage with regard to dissemination of data. May

 be a probabilistic advantage is obtained by a TM on

 account of early login, but in the absence of any further

 evidence on this aspect, no adverse orders can be passed.

 We also hold that there was randomness in the

 dissemination of data in the TBT architecture and, 224 therefore, there was no requirement to add a randomiser

 to the existing TBT architecture. 259. We, however, found that there was laxity at the hands

 of the employees of NSE in the distribution of IPs which

 resulted in unequal distribution of IPs on the servers. We

 have opined that a load balancer should have been

 employed which would have allocated IPs of TM evenly

 to the servers at the time of log in itself. The load

 balancer would equally distribute the load at every stage

 and would have ensured fairness, equality and

 transparency in the system which NSE was mandated to

 comply. The decision taken by NSE not to implement the

 load balancer does not appear to be a bonafide decision. 260. We also found that NSE failed to monitor the

 secondary server which led many TMs especially OPG to

 misuse it to their advantage. NSE failed to follow its own

 norms and guidelines framed for such purpose. NSE

 should have placed a mechanism to check unauthorised 225 access to the secondary server by the TMs. NSE should

 have placed a defined policy for use of secondary server

 and a mechanism ought to have been placed for

 monitoring connection by TM on the secondary server

 since it was an active server. 261. We also find that the WTM further held that failure to

 place the randomizer or load balancer in the TCP IP

 dissemination protocol, cannot be categorised as breach

 of the principles of "fairness and equity" attracting the

 provisions of PFUTP Regulations. The WTM held that

 the dissemination of information which is in breach of the

 stipulation contained in SECC Regulations cannot

 automatically attract the rigors of PFUTP Regulations,

 without there being any proof to indicate fraud. The

 WTM held that in the absence of any fraud or collusion

 or connivance the possibility of fraud was non-existent. 262. We also find that the charge that NSE has violated

 Regulation 41(2) and 42(2) of SECC Regulations is not 226 proved. NSE provided a level playing field for TM

 subscribing to the TBT data feed of NSE and provided

 equal, unrestricted and fair access from the TBT

 architecture. We, however, found that the circular of 30th

 March, 2012 was not followed by NSE. 263. We also found that the WTM exonerated OPG and its

 Directors on issue of first login and crowding out other

 TMs. We, however, affirm the findings of the WTM that

 OPG gained an unfair access and advantage by

 consistently log in to the secondary server and made

 unlawful gains. 264. We, however, find that for violation of the circular,

 there can be no disgorgement by NSE or by Mr. Ravi

 Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna. Insofar as Mr. Ravi

 Narain and Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna are concerned, the

 order of disgorgement cannot be sustained. We also find

 that order of disgorgement against NSE also cannot be

 sustained. 265. We have already held that NSE did not commit any

 violation of Regulation 41(2) of the SECC Regulations.

 We have also found that TBT architecture provided

 unrestricted, transparent and fair access to data

 dissemination from its TBT architecture to the TMs. We

 have also found that there was lack of due diligence while

 allocating IPs on various Ports and that there was

 inequitable distribution of IPs. We also found that a load

 balancer should have been placed for equitable

 distribution of the IPs. We also found that there was

 failure to monitor frequent connections to the secondary

 server by certain TMs. Even though NSE has not

 indulged in any unethical act or has unjustly enriched

 itself the direction to disgorge, in our opinion, cannot be

 sustained. However, NSE has not adhered to its own

 norms and guidelines and has not followed the circular.

 The SCRA Act confers a large responsibility upon the

 exchange to ensure that undesirable transactions do not 228 take place. Being a first level regulator it has a front line

responsibility for regulation of the market and has a

mandate to ensure compliance by the TMs of its own

norms, guidelines and circulars. NSE has a duty to

ensure transparency and fair access to all the TMs. For

lapses committed by NSE directions under Sections 11 and 11B could be passed and some of the directions of

the WTM were rightly passed. However, the direction

for disgorgement was unwarranted but the appellant NSE

cannot be allowed go scot free and is required to pay a

price for the lack of due diligence on account of human

failure to comply with the circular in letter and spirit.

Though there are no parameters to quantify the lapse

committed by NSE but taking into consideration all facts

and circumstances of the case and the factors

contemplated under Section 15J of the SEBI Act read

with 23J of the SCRA Act and in exercise of the powers

confirmed upon this Tribunal under Rules 21 of the 229 Securities Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000,

 we are of the opinion that NSE should pay a sum of

 Rs.100 crores for this lapse which is not expected from a

 first level regulator and which would act as a deterrent. 266. In view of the reasons given in the preceding

 paragraph: 267. In the circumstances of the case, parties shall bear

 their own costs. 268. This order will be digitally signed by the Private

 Secretary on behalf of the bench and all concerned parties

 are directed to act on the digitally signed copy of this

 order. Certified copy of this order is also available from

 the Registry on payment of usual charges. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Justice M.T. Joshi
 RAJALAKS Digitally signed
 by
 Judicial Member
 HMI RAJALAKSHMI
23.1.2023 HARISH HARISH NAIR
 Date: 2023.01.23
RHN NAIR 15:47:55 +05'30' 233 GLOSSARY
Sr. Abbreviation Description
No. 1. Algo - Algorithmic 2. CD - Currency Derivatives 3. CEO - Chief Executive Officer 4. CFT - Cross Functional Team 5. CM - Cash Market 6. Colo - Colocation Services 7. CTO - Chief Technology Officer 8. Deloitte - Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP 9. DMA - Direct Market Access 10. EY - M/s. Ernst & Young LLP 11. FSB - Front Side Bus (FSB) speeds 12. HFT - High Frequency Trading 13. IPEF - Investor Protection and Education
 Fund created by SEBI. 14. IRF - Interest Rate Futures 234 15. ISB - Indian School of Business 16. JMD - Joint Managing Director 17. MD and CEO - Managing Director and Chief
 Executive Officer 18. MTBT - Multi-cast Tick By Tick 19. NSE - National Stock Exchange of India
 Ltd. 20. Omnesys - Omnesys Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 21. OPG - OPG Securities Pvt. Ltd. 22. PDC - Primary Data Centre 23. PFUTP - Securities and Exchange Board of
 Regulations India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and
 Unfair Trade Practices relating to
 Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 24. POP Server - Point of Presence Servers or
 dissemination servers 25. PSM Team - Project Support and Management
 Team 26. SCRA - Securities Contracts (Regulation),
 Act 1956 27. SEBI - Securities and Exchange Board of
 India 235 28. SEBI Act - Securities and Exchange Board of
 India Act , 1992 29. SECC - Securities Contracts (Regulation)
 Regulations (Stock Exchanges and Clearing
 Corporations) Regulations, 2012 30. SOP - Standard Operating Procedure 31. TAC - Technical Advisory Committee 32. TBT - Tick-By-Tick mechanism 33. TCP/IP - Transmission Control Protocol/
 Internet Protocol 34. TM - Trading Member 35. UMLO - Unique Multi-Leg Option 36. WTM - Whole Time Member, SEBI. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

 Justice M.T. Joshi
 Judicial Member
 RAJALAK Digitally
 by
 signed

 SHMI RAJALAKSHMI
23.1.2023 HARISH NAIR
 HARISH Date: