?If There’s One Story To Read Today

The government’s used Section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, to block all sorts of things online in the interest of preserving public order, the state, and much more. Sometimes, it’s tweets and Twitter accounts . At other times, it’s a satirical website calculating how much dowry you can demand of an unfortunate bride’s family. The list goes on.

But, there might be a new use case on the block. Suppose you’re a domain name registrar, and you’ve repeatedly not complied with court orders. That could be construed as violating public order—which could be “considered relatable grounds” for a court to block your URL or website under Section 69A!

This isn’t us hypothesising on Section 69A, by the way—this was a thesis presented by India’s IT Ministry to the Delhi High Court in a trademarks violation case last month. Of course, these are just theories for now, but there’s one question on our mind: if a platform gets blocked, what’s the fate of the thousands of domains registered with it? [ Read , 4 minutes ]

Click here to subscribe to MediaNama Daily and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox.

Our hybrid roundtable on ‘Exploring User Verification’ held in Delhi on March 23, 2023, saw some pretty intense discussions on the topic ? Watch the full video here .

?Highlights: February

Following our event on TRAI’s consultation paper on regulatory convergence between the Internet, broadcast, and telecommunication, we have summarised the key issues and concerns that were raised during the discussion in a report.

FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION

What’s press freedom? In India, internet censorship has been taking place alongside suspension of access to telecom services. Condemning the government’s act of censorship on Twitter amid internet shutdown in the Indian state of Punjab, the Editors Guild of India has now written a letter reminding the government of freedom of press. Asking for greater transparency, the Guild calls out the government for creating an atmosphere of fear. [ Read ?, 2 minutes ]

PLATFORM REGULATION

India’s competition regime gets a much-needed update: Given all the ruckus happening in the Indian parliament these days, we didn’t think they’d get much done, but surprisingly, the parliament has passed the Competition (Amendment) Bill, 2023, which brings the most significant set of changes to the Competition Act in the last twenty years. It’s not enough to counter digital markets, but it is what it is. We have summarised the key takeaways of the Bill for you, so that you don’t have to read the lengthy legalese. [ Read , 8 minutes]

PRIVACY AND DATA GOVERNANCE

Criminal use cases of generative AI: While AI experts caution against AI alarmists, it’s also important to be mindful about potential harms of generative AI tools when misused by miscreants. A new Europol report warns that tools like OpenAI’s ChatGPT, GPT-4, and Bard may become a key criminal business model of the future by enabling fraudsters to improve their abilities to scam people. Check out how this can happen. [ Read ?, 5 minutes ]

All rise : From suspicious spyware to prohibited documentaries to contested gambling bans—India’s courts are hearing all sorts of tech policy cases this April. Here are all the important cases worth keeping an eye out for this summer. [ Read , 6 minutes ]

ONLINE GAMBLING

Room for improvement : The faulty implementation of Nagaland’s online gaming law deprived the state’s coffers of Rs. 2 crore, noted a recent government audit. What’s more surprising: the state government admitted that it did “not possess technical expertise” to calculate royalties owed by online gaming companies to it. We’re not the only ones struggling with our taxes, it would seem. [ Read ?, 5 minutes ]

TikTok hit with $15.7M UK fine for misusing children’s data [ Read ] (Natasha Lomas/Tech Crunch)

Australia Bans TikTok From Government Devices as Concern Spreads [Read] (Angus Whitley/Bloomberg)

Italy’s ChatGPT ban attracts EU privacy regulators [ Read ] (Supantha Mukherjee, et al./Reuters)

Google now guarantees some flight prices or your money back [ Read ] (Emily Price/Android Police)

ICE Is Grabbing Data From Schools and Abortion Clinics [ Read ] (Dhruv Mehrotra/WIRED)

Stable Diffusion copyright lawsuits could be a legal earthquake for AI [ Read ] (Timothy B. Lee/Ars Technica)

Labor to consider age-verification ‘roadmap’ for restricting online pornography access [Read] (Josh Taylor/The Guardian)

UK watchdog warns chatbot developers over data protection laws [ Read ] (Dan Milmo and Alex Hern/The Guardian)

Liked this newsletter? Click here to subscribe and receive the best of tech policy in your inbox

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event