SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: [RANT] How do you deal with the daily frustrations of living in India? I just want to give up and leave. I made a huge mistake moving back to India.
DATE: 2019-09-19
SCORE: 7
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/d6ecyi/rant_how_do_you_deal_with_the_daily_frustrations/

--- POST TEXT ---

These are my experiences and advice for any NRIs or OCIs who've drunk the cool-aid and believe the lies that Mudi peddles while abroad. The india of your dreams does not exist. It never did. You'll perpetually be disappointed when it comes to India. Outside of a very tiny bubble, India is a festering shithole. The masses is India get to decide how India will progress or regress, not the educated and affluent urban elite. Your voice will just get completely drowned out. The benefit of being part of this elite is you don't have to experience the shithole-ness of India for the most part. 

India is for the most part a festering shithole. If you are an NRI or a member of the privileged Indian community it is possible to live in a mostly insulated bubble where you can separate yourself from the stench (which is true for any 3rd world country to be honest).

But I think it's important to recognize the rot, the ground reality of India. Unfortunately most of the people who live in a bubble seem to think India is doing just great, and there are people who just don't have any exposure to the developed world to realize how bad things really are on the ground.

A lot of people seem to think corruption is a problem that can be fixed by just going after big ticket scams and prosecuting a handful of individuals in politics involved. The reality is corruption is endemic and most systems are completely broken. Corruption exists at every single level in almost every single industry and sphere or life in India. There just isn't any easy fix to the level of dysfunction India has, I suppose some smug idiots want to feel better about themselves by saying #IndiaSuperpower2030 and the like.

A few days ago I stumbled on a comment elsewhere on this website where someone mentioned the cold reality that Indian women are at the highest risk of getting burned alive in the entire world. Yet another Indianism that even I never really though too much about. A few years ago I learned about the open defecation problem.

I saw a comment the other day about marital rape (which still isn't illegal by the way) with a meme comment about open defecation. What meme'ers don't realize is that India is such a cesspit that women are actually at a risk of rape because of open defecation. Let the implications of that sink in for a moment.

The social rot and dysfunction in India is just unending, so maybe people just want to bury their heads in the sand and carry on as if everything is okay. India as a whole isn't going to change any time soon.

Yep, you can regularly see people going on a rampage with vandalism and murder. Sometimes it escalates into full blown riots with mass killings and mass rapes. A godman gets convicted for rape and these subhuman apes go on rampage to defend a rapist and murderer. This is the reality of India.

You can try to rub this sort of thing into the face of deluded Indian nationalists, but honestly even that is a waste of time. Honor-based ethno-religious chauvinism in India is very strong, and this too won't change. They'll bitch about you being racist of course the reality is that their honor is being undermined.

There are some very simple things that can tell you what India is about:

1. The traffic. Everything about traffic in India screams a total disregard for fellow citizens, disregard for rules and orderliness, and a total lack of civic sense. Indian roads, speed bumps and the moronic use of police barricades (presumably to make collecting bribes easier).
2. Filth, littering and sanitation. Probably the less said the better. Not even going into the topic of open defecation, just look at littering in privileged neighborhoods and how nobody bothers to clean up after themselves in malls.
3. Coins being the same size. Something so simple, yet it tells so much. [A tourist visiting India commented about this at the end of his video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPne-q4ynts)
4. Water from taps is unfit for human consumption. Probably the easiest sign that you're in a shithole.
5. Milk is not safe. Food in general is not safe in India - you can fall ill and government health inspectors are a joke.

Indians still seem to live in the pre-independence era, where they were treated as second-class citizens who had no right to complain, and had to yield to the whims of their masters, the British. Common citizens are treated like dogs both by companies and by the government, and they accept it with no compunction.

Yes indeed. Much of India still lives in the middle ages - a feudal, regressive, tribalistic society where concepts like human rights, justice, equality, protecting the most vulnerable citizens and democracy are all mostly irrelevant. What matters is the honor of the tribe - tribe in India's case consists of community, ethnic/linguistic group, caste, religion and region. As long as this honor is not hurt everything is permissable. This is why India is the honor killing capital of the world.

I moved back earlier this year. It was extraordinarily painful - like a crash landing into an alternate reality. Don't let anyone fool you into moving back by talking about spirituality, humanity and the fun you'll have by being with friends and family again. Unless you are very wealthy (and often not even then) and extremely well networked, everyday life in India can be very hard, in ways you cannot visualize. Things barely work. Get ready for incessant powercuts in the peak of blistering summers, unless you can shell out the five lakhs or so for a powerful generator. Banks services, government services, paying your bills, buying groceries, traveling the shortest distances, trying to get your kids into a halfway decent school, finding a service of any kind - in other words, every day normal activities - are all activities fraught with uncertainty and the prospect of being cheated or asked for bribes. Don't even get me started on the filth. It's everywhere, and no one cares. Everyone adds to it with merry abandon. Waste collection and disposal is dismal, even in nicer neighborhoods. The rivers and waterways are dying, choked with filth and industrial effluents.

There is tremendous competition for resources, for jobs, for everything. I mean, life-and-death-type competitiveness. Because, sadly, this is a country where your life literally depends on whether you can cut some other poor sod out of the running. You could be a nuclear scientist super specializing in building deep sea reactors, and you will still have to compete with 300-400 candidates (minimum) for a lousy job. And the one with the best political approach wins.

Even with all this, the worst perhaps is the ugly attitudes of people. The caste system, raises its ugly head in thousands of big and small ways. The class system pretty much dictates how you will be treated. Elite Indians have no respect or time for someone without visible wealth and status. If you don't have a good amount of money, get used to people treating you like crap, stonewalling, being cold, malicious or utterly indifferent. The elite classes in India really occupy their own physical and mind space, in which ordinary people do not impinge.

People don't respect the concept of personal space. At all. Insofar as a queue forms for anything, don't be too startled if people are stuck to you like glue. If you ask the person behind you to take a step back, you'll get a glare and a look that says 'This person is crazy. What the hell do they mean step back!' They may even start fighting with you. There is no concept of privacy.

There are large swathes of India that are not safe for women. So if you like to go out with friends in the evening, as all normal humans do, this is a huge factor for concern.

We won't talk about pollution today. That's a topic for a different rant. But know this - if you suffer from any kind of respiratory illness, urban India is not the place for you.

I also suggest you take a long holiday in India, i.e. live like a local for six months. It'll cure you good.

Totally fucking disgusted. The system in this entire fucking country is designed to hinder progress and frustrate the living fuck out of anyone.

I can't wait to leave. What a shithole.

/rant