Messaging platform WhatsApp saw the highest number of cybercrime incidents, followed by Telegram and Instagram, as per the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Annual Report 2023-24. Of the major social platforms, a total of 43,797 cyber fraud complaints were registered on WhatsApp, with Telegram and Instagram recording 22,860 and 19,800 complaints respectively in the first quarter of 2024.

The report also highlighted how scammers use major platforms like Facebook and Google to promote cybercrime and the Government’s efforts to curb the same. Firstly, through its collaboration with Facebook, the MHA identifies links to sponsored Facebook ads used to launch and promote illegal digital lending apps and takes necessary action.

Next, the ministry’s partnership with Google allows it to access and act against threat intelligence patterns like phishing advertisers lists, android banking malware (hashes), abuse of Google’s Firebase domain, and fraud funds. According to the report, the ‘pig butchering’ or ‘investment’ scam is the most prevalent global scam on Google involving money laundering and cyber slavery, primarily targeting unemployed youth, housewives, students, and others. Google’s advertisement platform, labelled a “convenient facility for targeted advertisement” across the border, hosts such scams.

The Indian Cybercrime Coordination Centre (I4C) is spearheading these partnerships.

Scammers use Google and Facebook’s ad platforms to run fake ads for loan apps and lure customers into disastrous experiences. As per a MediaNama analysis , these digital lending apps use photos of famous media personalities, trusted bank logos, and misleading interest rates in the advertisements on such platforms. However, the ad policies of both companies explicitly prohibit such harmful advertising.

Additionally, in 2024, Meta-owned WhatsApp became a breeding ground for cybercrime like fake wedding invitations , online trading , and digital arrest scams, among others. Recently, the I4C revealed that it had blocked over 59,000 WhatsApp accounts used for ‘digital arrests’, with police authorities taking similar action against 6.69 lakh SIM cards and 1.32 lakh IMEIs. Besides this, the MHA has also taken several measures like establishing a Cyber Fraud Mitigation Centre, developing a repository of cybercriminals, and engaging in social media awareness campaigns to combat cybercrime.

Cyber fraud on WhatsApp extends to spam and spoof calls as well, with 66% of Indians receiving two to three spam calls daily, as per a survey by LocalCircles back in 2023. To tackle this issue, the government has issued directions to telecom service providers (TSPs) to block international spoof calls. Besides this, telcos have also amped up their efforts, asking the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to bring over-the-top (OTT) platforms like WhatsApp and Telegram under its spam regulations, claiming such platforms have become fertile grounds for spam. Recently, Bharti Airtel in its advocacy for ‘same service same rules’ for OTTs and telcos suggested such platforms undertake business verification measures through a know-your-customer (KYC) process akin to how telcos verify their customers.

This sentiment was also echoed during TRAI’s open house discussion reviewing India’s current spam regulation. During the discussion, stakeholders pointed to the absence of data on spam present on OTT platforms, which when established would point toward a need for regulation of the sector. Further, terming fraud an ‘extension of spam’, others advocated for a collaborative ecosystem between OTT platforms, telcos, and non-telcos (third-party platforms) to enable customers to report spam from anywhere, rather than the onus primarily falling on telecom companies.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event