1. By the present suit, plaintiffs seek a permanent, prohibitory and
mandatory injunction to restrain defendant nos. 1 to 3, their affiliates, agents
and any other persons including defendant no. 6 acting for or on their behalf
from making, publishing, distributing, posting, tweeting, sharing,
circulating, repeating, republishing, uploading and/or downloading the
impugned statements on any website or other electronic media or in any
manner whatsoever that affects or may have the effect of disparaging,
tarnishing, by demeaning, defaming or infringing the rights of the plaintiff; direct defendant Nos. 4 to 5 to take down or remove all the impugned
statements and any other such statements connected with or related to the
same and destroy the physical or electronic copies within the power,
possession and access of the defendants and provide the Internet Protocol
addresses of defendant Nos. 1 to 3 and other persons creating and sharing
the said impugned statements; damages and costs. 2. Summons in the present suit were issued vide order dated 8 th May
2019. Defendant Nos. 1, 2 and 3 did not enter appearance. Thus, they were
proceeded ex-parte vide order dated 6th November, 2019. Further the
plaintiff does not press any prayer against Defendant Nos. 4, 5, 7 and 8 3. Case of the plaintiff is that defendant Nos. 1 to 3 are members of
Viceroy Research Group who admittedly hold shorting positions in various
stocks of the plaintiffs that is Ebix Group who are leading suppliers of on-
demand suppliers and e-commerce services to the insurance, financial,
healthcare and governance industries. The defendants have published reports
and statements making outrageous allegations against the plaintiffs
pertaining to accounting irregularities, attempts to defraud and mislead
government agencies, investors and shareholders by employing certain
tactics to engage in tax and regulatory fraud. 4. It came to the knowledge of the plaintiffs that the defendants had
circulated the impugned statements to various banks and financial
institutions when one of the plaintiff companies took steps towards the
listing of its shares on recognised stock exchanges in India. Defendant Nos.1
to 3 also contacted news agencies and circulated the impugned statements.
In furtherance to the same, the news agencies sought comments and
clarifications from the plaintiffs. 5. The plaintiffs conduct their business in fifty countries with more than
12,000 employees. The plaintiffs have a reputable track record in terms of
compliance, ethics, operating performance, research and development in
India. The plaintiffs have also maintained highest standards of financial
discipline and professional standards by conducting their business in
accordance with the applicable law. 6. EbixCash World Money Ltd., plaintiff No.1 herein, is a company
incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 . It provides foreign exchange
services, financial intermediation and information technology services. Ebix
Software India Pvt. Ltd. that is plaintiff No.2, is a software development
company which develops, designs and deploys products for the insurance,
financial and healthcare sectors. Ebix Inc. being plaintiff no. 3 is the parent
entity of the Ebix Group listed on NASDAQ and has a current market
capitalization of over USD $1.5 billion approximately. 7. Further, in the last 24 months, the plaintiffs have invested USD $700
million into India while acquiring over 15 companies in various sectors
including but not limited to foreign exchange, money remittance, credit card
operations, travel sector, e-learning, healthcare, lending and wealth
management sectors. The plaintiffs also intend to make further acquisitions
of approximately USD $400 million in India. 8. Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 operate and manage a website titled
<htttps://viceroyresearch.org> and a Twitter handled by the name
@viceroyresearch. The addresses of defendant Nos. 1 to 3 are unknown.
Defendant no. 1 currently resides in South Africa whereas defendant Nos. 2
and 3 are residents of Australia. The defendants communicate vide their
email id that is [email protected] . Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 have a CS(OS) 249/2019 Page 3 of 7 notorious history of adopting shorting positions in listed companies globally
and thereafter publishing reports and spreading misinformation about these
companies to make illegal and unlawful profits out of such misinformation. 9. Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 have been sued by companies across the world
for their illegal and unlawful actions similar to their actions in the present
proceedings. On the other hand, defendant no. 4, Google India Private Ltd.
herein, is a corporation specializing in internet related services and products
and is the most widely used search engine. Defendant no. 5 being Twitter
Communications India Pvt. Ltd. 10. It is noteworthy that Defendant No.1 published a presentation titled
"Ebix-Goodwill Hunting: The alchemy of creating profits" on 3rd December
2019, available for public view on its website. Subsequent to the above,
Defendant No.1 has published articles titled "Ebix-Goodwill hunting",
"Ebix-The Taxman Cometh", and "Diving into the Robin Raina
Foundation" on 11th December, 13th December and 20th December 2019
respectively. Lastly, Defendant No.1 has also published an article titled
"Ebix‟s 2019 „Not-So-Good-Business-Acumen-nomination" on 7th January
2019 and certain information on its Twitter handle "@viceroyresearch". 11. In the aforementioned statements, Defendant Nos. 1 to 3 have stated
that: 12. The impugned statements are publicly available on the website of
defendant nos. 1 to 3 that is <https://www.viceroyresearch.org/> and are
available for public to view. 13. During the course of hearing, learned counsel for the plaintiff does not
press any relief against defendant Nos. 4, 5, 7 and 8. Hence no decree is
passed against these defendants. Further as the plaintiff does not press any
relief qua defendant Nos.5 and 7, thus the copy of the revenue sharing
arrangement between defendant Nos.5 and 7 which was filed by defendant
No.5 in a sealed cover is permitted to be withdrawn by defendant No.5. 14. Learned counsel for the plaintiff presses only prayer (a) qua
defendants Nos. 1, 2 and 3. Consequently, suit is decreed in terms of prayer (a) in favour of plaintiff as against the defendant nos. 1, 2 and 3.
I.A. 6755/2019 (u/O XXXIX R 1 & 2 CPC )
I.A. 11204/2019 (u/O XXXIX R 1& 2 CPC )
 Disposed of as infructuous. I.A. 8966/2019 (u/O XXXIX R 4 CPC by D-4)
I.A. 9307/2019 (u/O I R 10 CPC by D-5)
I.A. 12218/2019 (u/O I R10 CPC by D-4)
 Dismissed as infructuous. (MUKTA GUPTA)
 JUDGE
MARCH 05, 2020
'am' CS(OS) 249/2019 Page 7 of 7