TUESDAY, THE TWENTY EIGHTH DAY OF JULY, 

 

TWO THOUSAND NINE. Oral
Order : (Per Sri K.Satyanand,
Honble Member. ) 

 

 ***

 

  

 

  

 

 This
is a consumer complaint filed by a Multi
 Speciality Hospital
against A.P.TRANSCO alleging that the later was guilty of deficiency in service
in the following circumstances. The
complainant was taking the service of supply of electricity from the opposite
party under service connection Nos .X2-4641/II and X2/4630-II. The opposite party, obviously after making an
inspection and preparing inspection notes and
inspection report, issued an initial assessment notice requiring the
complainant to pay a huge sum of Rs.10,00,000/- and odd towards the value of
energy pilfered by the complainant. According to the complainant, the allegation of pilferage of electricity
was baseless and at no point of time the inspecting officers had ever
complained of any defects in the meters or any other illegal activity indulged in
by the complainant. The complainant also contended that the maintenance
contract was given to a contractor, who was also incharge of the electrical
installations. On the day of inspection,
the contractor was absent. The
complainant suspected that the inspection was the handi work of the contractor
and trouble mongers including some doctors in that locality. The complainant contended that the opposite
party exaggerated the consumption of electricity even taking into account some
unused air conditions etc., The
inspectors of the opposite party had not taken the signatures of the doctors
and on the other hand they had taken signatures of some patients standing at
the reception mistaking them to be the staff members of the nursing home. The allegations mentioned in the said notice
that the wires were directly connected from the pole were absolutely wrong and
baseless. At that time, the actual owner
of the hospital was away in U.S.
and therefore the doctors working in the nursing home were not aware of the
facts and circumstances and the dealings of the owner with the opposite
party. The officers of the opposite
party conducted the raid on 25-7-2002 and they were in a drunken state at that
time and they threatened the doctors and other staff members without any reason
whatsoever. Thereafter the electricity
supply was disconnected apart from frequent break downs in the power
supply. The opposite party directed the
complainant to pay half of the assessed amount. When the complainant requested for
reconnection, opposite party directed the complainant to pay it in three equal
instalments. Accordingly the instalment
was paid and immediately the power supply was restored on 30-7-2002. However, the complainant challenged the
allegations of pilferage as also assessment and therefore filed this consumer
complaint, as untenable demand and the disconnection marked deficiency in service. Opposite
party filed a counter affidavit in place of a written version denying the
allegations against the officers. It was
maintained by the opposite party that an inspection was conducted on 25-7-2002
at 7.58 p.m. and it was not 10.30 p.m.
The inspectors noted various incriminating points as follows: Opposite party alleged that the complainant
indulged in theft of energy and therefore an initial assessment notice that
came to be impugned in this complaint, was issued. According to the opposite party, the value of
the energy that was stolen was to a tune of Rs.20,00,000/- and odd. It also alleged that the complainant used to
keep the meters in a locked room and they were asking the staff to wait during
the routine inspections and allowed them only after restoring normalcy of the
connections. This misdeed came to light
only when the inspecting authority flash raided on the complainant premises and
recorded the consumed units and compared with the allotted load.
They further submitted that merely the initial assessment notice was
issued and against the same, there were departmental remedies. The complainant bypassed those remedies and
approached this Commission only to avoid further exposure before the
departmental authorities. They claimed
to have taken photographs to show the actual wrong connections facilitating the
pilferage. They however admitted that
the power supply was restored only after receiving the first instalment of the
amount in compliance with the conditions, in terms of the assessment
notice. Opposite party finally submitted
that the present case being a case of pilferage, the Special court constituted
under the Amendment Act of Indian Electricity Act only was having jurisdiction
and this matter should go before that court and therefore impliedly suggested
that this Commission had no jurisdiction. In
support of its case, the complainant hospital filed an affidavit of one of the
partners of the hospital and relied upon Exs.A1 to A8. Opposite party did not file any separate
affidavit but the Commission appeared to have taken into account the counter
affidavit as obviating the necessity of filing a separate affidavit. In support of its case, the A.P.TRANSCO relied
upon Exs.B1 to B5. After
hearing both sides, this Commission passed an order dated 7-11-2003 directing
the opposite party to appoint an Arbitrator to adjudicate the matter before it,
however, giving relief to the complainant by way of ordering restoration of
supply of electricity etc., but at the same time making its order subject to
the award that may be passed by the Arbitrator. Aggrieved
by the said order, the Central Power Distribution Company that stepped into the
shoes of A.P.TRANSCO filed a Writ Petition No.25466/2008 challenging the said order
especially on the ground that the State Commission had no jurisdiction to
entertain the dispute in question more so when the remedy was available under
the terms of supply. On the other hand,
the complainant opposed the said writ petition stating that under Section 89 of
C.P.C. the court was entitled to refer the matter to be resolved outside the court
either by way of arbitration, conciliation etc., and therefore the Commission did have power to refer the matter for
arbitration. Heard both sides. The Honble High Court held as follows: This aspect is rather premature at this stage except to the extent of
its relevancy in the adjudication of the issue relating to the maintainability.
The maintainability of the C.D. is challenged as per the counter affidavit on
the ground that this being a case of pilferage, the Special Court constituted under the Indian Electricity Act was alone having jurisdiction. But Exs.B4 to B5 were issued in a different
stream of law that is meant to take action for indulging in a mal practice for
which civil penalties etc. are contemplated. As already stated the concept of malpractice is a product of clause 39
of the terms and conditions of Supply of Electricity which enjoy the backing
not only of the Electricity (Supply) Act but also A.P.Reforms Act, transfer
schemes etc. The theft of energy that
has to be taken to the Special
 Court or Electricity Tribunal as the case may be,
entirely pertains to the realm of Electricity Act, 1910 etc. and entails
criminal consequences and the previous dispensation which continued to go
strong beyond the date of cause of action as in the present case until the Indian Electricity Act heralded, there was no convergence of one stream for proceedings
against the malpractice and the other stream for proceedings against theft of
energy. No doubt there were few bouts
of mixing up these two streams thanks to variant views of perception. As
this is a case prior to the advent of Indian Electricity Act, 2003 , law
obtaining prior to Electricity Act, 2003 has to be administered. Now reverting to the three aspects that are
decisive of the maintainability of the complaint in the present case, it has
been made clear that the accusation that there was theft of energy has to be
necessarily construed as pilferage of energy contemplated by clause 39 as after
all Exs. B3 and B4 are the notices contemplated by the annexures to the revised
terms and conditions of the supply of electricity which are directly relevant
to the pilferage of energy as a malpractice than to the allegation of theft
of energy contemplated by the Indian Electricity Act . No doubt this kind of dichotomy requires a
deeper study but this is the correct place where such dichotomy can be examined
at least peripherally as otherwise what is a malpractice should not be
converted into a criminal offence or vice versa. It is, doubtless, a well settled proposition
of law that there is nothing in law that prevents both civil or departmental
proceedings and criminal proceedings. But the procedure relevant to each of these streams should be
scrupulously adhered to more so in the case of criminal justice. The jurisdiction can always be assumed on the
basis of a tentative finding which gives scope for examination as to the real
nature of the infraction whether it is civil in nature or criminal in nature or
both. This circumstance viewed against
the back drop of the title of the complainant to claim as being a consumer
technically so called under the Consumer Protection Act assumes all the more
importance. The plea of consumer of electricity not being a
consumer under the Consumer Protection Act is rather elemental. Section 33(2) of the A.P. Electricity Reforms
Act the provisions of which are endowed with the capacity to modify the
formulations under the Electricity (Supply) Act as for example restructuring
the pattern of powers to the erstwhile board a creature of Electricity
(Supply) Act , makes it abundantly clear that the electricity consumer is as
much a consumer technically so called under the Consumer Protection Act . The said section reads as follows: