BEFORE
 HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE SUMAN SHYAM
 HONOURABLE MRS. JUSTICE MALASRI NANDI

Dates of hearing : 04.01.2023, 06.01.2023 & 09.01.2023. This appeal, preferred by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), is directed

against the judgment and order dated 01.07.2021 passed by the learned Special

Judge, NIA, Assam, Guwahati, in Special (NIA) Case No.02/2020 arising out of RC-

13/2019/NIA/GUW whereby, all the four respondents/ accused persons were

discharged by holding that there was no material available on record so as to frame

charge against them. 2. The basic allegations brought against the accused persons are to the effect

that the accused/respondent No.1 Sri Akhil Gogoi, (A-1), who is the leader of an

organization called Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), had conspired with the

other three accused persons impleaded as respondent Nos. 2,3 and 4 i.e. A-2, A-3

and A-4, so as to commit terrorist acts in association with the banned terrorist

organization CPI (Maoist) and thereby indulged in mass mobilization of public so as to
 Page No.# 3/56

cause economic blockade and paralyse the Government machinery. In the process,

they have disrupted essential services and disturbed the harmony between the

various communities. On 13.12.2019 the Sub-Inspector of Police, Chandmari Police

Station had lodged a complaint alleging merger of KMSS with the banned

organization CPI(Maoist) alleging that the respondents have abated, conspired,

advocated and incited acts preparatory to commission of terrorist acts. It appears

that the complaint dated 13.12.2019 was primarily triggered by the State wide

protests and agitations launched by various organizations including the KMSS

protesting against the CAB/CAA which had ultimately led to sporadic incidents of

violence in different parts of the State. 3. Initially, a police case being Chandmari P.S. Case No.1688/2019 was registered

on the basis of the complaint dated 13.12.2019 treating the same as an F.I.R. and the

matter was taken up for investigation by the Assam Police. However, the investigation

in the aforesaid case was subsequently handed over to the National Investigation

Agency (for short -NIA). Consequently, RC-13/2019/NIA/GUW came to be registered

whereafter, NIA had carried out the investigation in connection with the aforesaid

case. During the course of investigation, NIA had collected oral, documentary as well

as technical evidence. On completion of investigation, NIA had submitted charge-

sheet against all the four accused persons on 29.05.2020. The charges brought

against the four accused persons were under Section 18 read with Section 39 of the

Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 read with Sections 120(B) / 124-A / 153A / 153B of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ). Page No.# 4/56 4. The gist of the charges brought against the accused persons, as appearing

from the charge-sheet submitted on 29.05.2020 is reproduced herein below for ready

reference :- 5. There are 76 witnesses, ninety documents (D-1 to D-90) besides some technical

evidence, which have been referred to in the charge-sheet submitted on 29.05.2020.

It appears that after the service of summons on the accused persons, cognizance of

the charge-sheet was taken whereafter, hearing on framing of charges had

commenced on 16.03.2021. The arguments advanced on behalf of the prosecution

for framing of charge went up to 10.06.2021. Thereafter, the defense side was heard

and the arguments were concluded on 24.06.2021. It further appears from the

materials available on record that on 29.06.2021, additional charge-sheet was

submitted by the prosecution, bringing on record, additional materials for framing

charge against the accused persons. On 01.07.2021 the impugned judgment

containing 207 paragraphs, spanning over more than 120 pages, was passed by the

learned Special Judge, NIA discharging all the four accused persons on the reasons

recorded therein. 6. The appellant has assailed the impugned judgment primarily on two counts.

Firstly, the impugned judgment has been delivered in utter disregard to the principles

of natural justice whereby, the prosecution was not granted a fair opportunity to

present its case. Secondly, on the face of the bulk of evidence brought on record by

the prosecution in the charge-sheet dated 29.05.2020 as well as the additional

charge-sheet submitted on 29.06.2021, the learned Special Judge, NIA had erred in

law in holding that there was no material to frame charge against the accused

persons. Page No.# 6/56 7. By inviting the attention of this Court to the materials available on record, Mr.

D. Saikia, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant (NIA) has argued that

on 29.06.2021 the prosecution had submitted additional charge-sheet bringing

additional materials in the form of evidence of protected witness 'C' as well as

document "D-91" so as to argue that there was sufficient evidence available against

the accused persons to establish that they were the members of a "terrorist gang".

Such evidence, according to Mr. Saikia, would unequivocally go to show that the

accused persons have indulged in terrorist acts within the meaning of Section 15 of

the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (herein after referred to as the UA(P) Act

and hence, were liable to be punished under Section 18 of the UA(P) Act. Mr. Saikia

further submits that on 29.06.2021, the counsel for the accused persons had submitted

a written argument consisting of 1225 pages by serving a copy upon his assisting

counsel. The prosecution had sought 10 days time to go through the documents and

make submissions responding to the written arguments submitted by the accused

persons and also in support of the additional charge-sheet. According to Mr. Saikia,

on 30.06.2021, when the matter came up before the Court, the learned Special

Judge had verbally agreed to grant 7 days time to the prosecution to make

submissions in support of the additional charge-sheet and also to respond to the

written submission of the defence counsel but by a post-dated order, the prayer for

adjournment made by the prosecution was rejected and on 01.07.2021 the

impugned judgment was delivered. Mr. Saikia submits that there is no valid reason for

the learned court below to deny fair opportunity to the prosecution side to place its

case. Learned senior counsel, therefore, submits that the impugned judgment was
 Page No.# 7/56

delivered by the learned trial court in hot haste, by denying fair opportunity to the

prosecution to argue its case. The learned senior counsel submits that the impugned

judgment is vitiated on account of violation of the principles of natural justice and as

such, is liable to be set aside on such count alone. 8. Mr. Saikia has also taken us through the various documents available on

record including the statement of the protected witnesses 'A', 'B' and 'C', the other

witnesses including the injured witness PW-3 Sri Dipak Mudoi, photographs brought on

record, the Call Detail Record (CDR) and the translated versions of the intercepted

phone calls involving the accused persons submitted along with the charge-sheet to

argue that there are statements of various members of the organizations led by

accused No.1 who have themselves stated about the conspiracy hatched by the

accused persons to indulge in terrorist acts by causing economic blockade and

resorting to violent activities such as arson and stone pelting and also burning down

of Government properties which would establish without any doubt that there are

good grounds to proceed against the accused persons for committing terrorist act.

Notwithstanding the same, the learned court below has discharged the accused

persons in respect of the charge brought under Section 18 of the UA(P) Act without

properly considering that aspect of the matter. It is also the submission of Mr. Saikia

that since the learned trial court did not give an opportunity to the prosecution to

place its case in the proper perspective, hence, it could not be argued before the

learned trial court that the petitioners were the members of a "terrorist gang" within

the meaning of Section 2(l) of the UA(P) Act and that they were also involved in

organized form of terrorist act by resorting to violent activities. Contending that the
 Page No.# 8/56

charge brought against the accused persons under Section 39 of the UA(P) Act is

distinct and different from the charge under Section 18 of the said Act and would

have to be independently assessed by the court while framing charge but no such

exercise has been undertaken in this case, Mr. Saikia has further argued that even if

the notification dated 22.06.2009 is ignored, even then, there were sufficient materials

available on record to show that the accused persons were members of "terrorist

organization" coming within the meaning of Section 2(m) of the UA(P) Act and to

that extent, the learned trial court had committed manifest illegality in premising the

entire argument as regards the applicability of Section 39 of the UA(P) Act only on

the notification dated 22.06.2009. 9. By inviting our attention to the statements of the witnesses, Mr. Saikia has

argued that PW-4, who is the Chief Advisor and a founder member of KMSS has

stated that the accused No.1 himself called him to join the march and stop the

National Highway and that the A-1 had also announced over the mike asking people

to shut down the whole of Sivasagar; PW-6, Sri Tulumoni Duarah has stated that the

associates of A-1 had damaged a white Bolero vehicle on duty under the CRPF and

had turned the vehicle on its head over the road; PW-7, Sunil Sonowal, who is also a

member of the KMSS, has stated that the A-1 Akhil Gogoi was leading the protest in

Assam and he had delivered speeches to provoke the public as a result of which,

violent activities had started in Chabua area leading to damage of Government

vehicles and injury being caused to the Officer-in-Charge of the Chabua Police

Station; PW-8, Rahul Chetry, who was the General Secretary of Dibrugarh University

Postgraduate Students Union has stated that the A-1 (Akhil Gogoi) had told him that
 Page No.# 9/56

there is only one option and that is to shut down Assam completely and when he

asked A-1 whether the economic blockade has started, he replied in the affirmative

and encouraged the protesters to shut down Assam. 10. The learned senior counsel for the appellant has also taken us through the

transcript of intercepted telephonic conversations between the accused No.1 and

his associates including the other accused persons, which are accompanied by the

certificates as required under the law, to show that there are materials to indicate

that the A-1 was giving calls to completely block the National Highway; to break the

Government; and to gherao the house of some Ministers including the Chief Minister,

Assam. 11. By referring to the decision of the Supreme Court rendered in the case of Union of India vs. Prafulla Kumar Samal reported in (1979) 3 SCC 4 Mr. Saikia has

argued that while exercising jurisdiction under Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. for framing of

charge, the Court is required to weigh the evidence for the limited purpose of

ascertaining as to whether or not a prima-facie case exists against the accused

persons and not to indulge in a mini trial. According to Mr. Saikia, the learned court

below has indulged in a mini trial and has discharged the accused persons in respect

of all the charges by erroneously holding that the evidence is insufficient to frame

charge against them by entering into the merit of the case. 12. By referring to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of State of MP vs.

S B Johari reported in AIR 2000 SC 665 Mr. Saikia has argued that while framing

charge, the court is not required to appreciate evidence and arrive at a conclusion
 Page No.# 10/56

as to whether the materials are sufficient or not for convicting the accused but should

confine the enquiry only to find out if there are sufficient grounds to proceed against

the accused persons. Mr. Saikia submits that in view of the bulk of materials brought

on record by the prosecution side there was sufficient basis to conclude that there is

a strong suspicion leading the court to think that the accused had committed the

offence alleged but the learned trial court had misinterpreted the law and

discharged the accused by recording findings which were perverse on the face of

the record. In support of his above argument Mr. Saikia has also relied on the

decisions rendered in the case of Rajbir Singh vs. State of UP reported in ( 2006) 4 SCC

51, Sajjan Kumar vs. CBI reported in (2010)9 SCC 368, State vs. S Selvi reported in

( 2018) 13 SCC 455 and Dr. Nallapareddy Sridhar Reddy vs. State of AP reported in

( 2020)12 SCC 467, Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad vs. Dilip Nathumal Chordia and

another reported in ( 1989) 1 SCC 715, Minakshi Bala vs. Sudhir Kumar and others reported in ( 1994) 4 SCC 142 and State of Maharashtra vs. Som Nath Thapa reported

in (1996) 4 SCC 659. 13. Responding to the above arguments, Mr. K. N. Choudhury, learned senior

counsel appearing for the respondent No.1 (A-1)) has argued that the case

projected by the prosecution is wholly untenable in the facts and circumstances of

the case inasmuch as there are materials to show that the accused No.1 has not only

invited the public to resort to peaceful protests but has also asked them to eschew

violence. Therefore, the allegation brought against the accused persons of indulging

in terrorist act is wholly unfounded in the facts of the case. According to Mr.

Choudhury, the protests, which had erupted in various parts of the State of Assam in
 Page No.# 11/56

the wake of the introduction of the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB) and the

subsequent enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), were

spontaneous and the same had triggered widespread resentment amongst the

people of the State. Therefore, in exercise of the fundamental rights guaranteed to

the citizens under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, the public had the right to

protest. According to Mr. Choudhury, this is precisely what had been resorted to by

the accused No.1 and his colleagues. According to Mr. Choudhury, it is not only the

accused persons but several other organizations in the State had also protested

against the CAB/CAA and therefore, there is no justifiable ground for the State to

single out the accused persons and prosecute them under the draconian law i.e.

UA(P) Act. 14. By referring to the materials available on record Mr. Choudhury submits that

there is not even an iota of evidence on record so as to enable the learned Special

Judge, NIA to frame charge against the accused persons under Sections 18 and 39 of the UA(P) Act. Mr. Choudhury also submits that the learned Special Judge has

elaborately dealt with the materials placed along with the charge-sheet to record his

conclusion and there is no justifiable ground to disagree with such conclusions. Mr.

Choudhury further submits that, law is well settled that even if two views are possible

on the basis of the materials placed on record, the Appellate Court would not

ordinarily disturb the view taken by the court of first instance in such matters. 15. In so far as the plea of violation of principles of natural justice is concerned, Mr.

Choudhury has invited the attention of this Court to the observations recorded by the
 Page No.# 12/56

learned court below in paragraph 174 of the impugned judgment to contend that

proper reasons have been recorded by the learned trial court for rejecting the prayer

for adjournment made by the prosecution side on 30.06.2021. Once the prayer for

adjournment was rejected, it was open for the learned trial court to deliver the

impugned judgment on 01.07.2021. Mr. Choudhury also submits that the prosecution

side had sufficient opportunity to place their case before the learned trial court and

therefore, it cannot be said that the prosecution has been denied a fair opportunity.

Mr. Choudhury has, however, submitted in his usual fairness that in view of the

observations recorded in the impugned judgment wherein the learned Special

Judge, NIA has himself observed that there could be materials to frame charge

against the accused persons under the penal provisions in the IPC , even though he

disputes the correctness of such observation, the learned senior counsel submits that

the correct approach for the learned trial court would have been to invoke

jurisdiction under Section 20 of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 and

transfer the case for trial by the court having jurisdiction to try the offences under the IPC . In view of the above, submits Mr. Choudhury, if the Court is of the view that the

impugned order calls for correction, then the matter can be remanded back to the

learned trial court only for the limited purpose of dealing with the aforesaid aspect of

the matter and for transferring the case to the court competent to try offences under

the IPC . 16. In support of his above submissions Mr. Choudhury has relied upon the

decisions rendered in Niranjan Singh Karam Singh Punjabi, Advocate vs. Jitendra

Bhimraj Bijjaya reported in (1990) 4 SCC 76, Yogesh vs. State of Maharashtra reported
 Page No.# 13/56

in ( 2008) 10 SCC 394 and Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel vs. State of Gujarat reported in (2019) 16 SCC 547. 17. Mr. S. Borthakur, learned counsel for the respondent Nos.2, 3 and 4 has by and

large adopted the submissions advanced by Mr. K. N. Choudhury, learned senior

counsel for the A-1 and has further argued that there is not even an iota of material

available against his clients for framing charge under any of the provisions included in

the charge-sheet and therefore, the learned Special Judge has rightly discharged

the A-2, A-3 and A-4. In support of his above arguments Mr. Borthakur has relied upon

and referred to the decisions of the apex court in State vs. Nalini and others reported

in ( 1999) 5 SCC 253, Hitendra Vishnu Thakur and others vs. State of Maharashtra and

others reported in ( 1994) 4 SCC 602, Zameer Ahmed Latifur Rehman Sheikh vs. State of

Maharashtra and others reported in ( 2010) 5 SCC 246 and M/S Siddeshwari Cotton

Mills (P) Ltd. vs. Union of India and another reported in (1989) 2 SCC 458. 18. In his reply argument Mr. D. Saikia, learned senior counsel for the appellant,

has submitted that once it is found that the impugned judgment and order dated

01.07.2021 suffers from error in exercise of jurisdiction, the entire matter ought to be

remanded for a fresh decision so as to avoid prejudice being caused to either side.

According to Mr. Saikia, the question of framing of charge has to be decided on

overall assessment of the materials available on record and therefore, it would not be

permissible for the appellate court to bAWWqq ifurcate the charges while

remanding the matter for a fresh decision by the trial court. 19. We have considered the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for
 Page No.# 14/56

both the sides and have also carefully gone through the materials available on

record. 20. As noted above, by the impugned order dated 01/07/2021 passed by the

learned court below, the four accused persons i.e. the respondent Nos.1 to 4 have

been discharged. Apart from urging that the impugned order is perverse in the eye of

law, the same has also been assailed by the appellant on the ground of having been

passed in utter violation of the principles of natural justice. Since the learned counsel

for the appellant has argued that the prosecution was not given a fair opportunity to

place its case, more particularly after the written submissions of the accused persons

were brought on record and the additional charge-sheet was submitted on

29.06.2021 we propose to deal with this aspect of the matter first in point of time. 21. It is not in dispute that on 29.06.2021 the defense side had submitted a written

argument which runs into 1225 pages. It appears that a copy of the written argument

was served upon the learned counsel for the appellant (prosecution) only on

29.06.2021. It further appears from the materials on record that the additional charge-

sheet was also submitted by the prosecution on the same day i.e. 29.06.2021 along

with Petition No.195/2021 with a prayer to take the same on record. By order dated

29.06.2021, the learned Special Judge had allowed the said prayer after considering

the objection filed by the accused persons on the same day i.e. on 29.06.2021 itself. 22. We also find from the materials on record that on the previous day i.e. on

28.06.2021, the prosecution (NIA) had filed a petition bearing No.192/2021 with a

request to keep the identity of one of the protected witnesses 'C' as secret. By order
 Page No.# 15/56

dated 28.09.2021, the learned court below had directed that the identity and

address of the protected witness "C" be kept secret. The statement of protected

witness "C" was later included in the supplementary charge-sheet filed on

29.06.2021. 23. We also find from the record that on 30.06.2021, the learned court below had

passed an order refusing to postpone the charge hearing any further at the instance

of the prosecution on the ground that the same would lead to undue delay and

accordingly, fixed the matter on 01.07.2021 at 10:30 a.m. for order on the point of

charge. The impugned judgment and order was passed on 01.07.2021. From the

above, it is evident that the prayer for adjournment made by the prosecution was

rejected only on 30.06.2021 i.e. a day before delivering the impugned judgment. 24. If the accused persons were granted leave to file their written submission and

the same, running into 1225 pages, was taken on record on 29.06.2021, it was

incumbent upon the learned court below to consider the prayer made by the

prosecution seeking 10 days time to place their case in the light of the above

materials. However, such prayer was rejected only on the ground of causing delay. It

is understandable that there could be anxiety on the part of the learned Special

Judge to conclude the proceedings expeditiously and to that extent, the court would

be wholly justified in ensuring that there is no undue delay in such matters. Since

written submission of the defense side as well as the additional charge sheet was

taken on record only on 29.06.2021, the prosecution was certainly entitled to some

reasonable time to prepare and address the court so as to project its case. However,
 Page No.# 16/56

it is the admitted position of fact that no such opportunity was granted to the

prosecution. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, we do not

find any valid reason as to why, the prayer for granting even a short adjournment had

to be rejected by the learned trial court. We also do not find any ground to presume

that granting a week's time to the prosecution to place its case in its entirety would

have resulted in undue delay in concluding the proceedings that would have

occasioned failure of justice. On the other hand, by refusing to grant time to the

prosecution to place its case in the light of the materials brought on record, more

particularly the additional charge-sheet dated 29.06.2021, the learned trial court has,

in our opinion, denied a fair opportunity to the prosecution to present its case. We,

therefore, find sufficient force in the submission of Mr. Saikia, learned counsel for the

appellant, that the impugned order dated 01.07.2021 has been passed in violation of

the principles of natural justice thereby having a vitiating effect on the same. 25. Having held as above, ordinarily it would not have been necessary for this

court to enter into the merit of this appeal and record any finding as regards the

correctness of the observations and conclusions recorded by the learned Special

Judge, NIA in the impugned order dated 01.07.2021. However, there are a few

aspects of the matter which requires to be highlighted at this point of time. Therefore,

without going into the excruciating details of the case, we deem it appropriate to

point out the following aspects herein below. 26. We find from the materials placed before us that the prosecution has relied

upon the statements of as many as three protected witnesses viz. Protected Witnesses
 Page No.# 17/56

"A", "B" and "C". The protected witness "A" has stated as follows :- 27. The protected witness "B" has stated as follows : After 10-15 days of this meeting, I received an amount of Rs. 45,000/- in
cash sent by Amit Bagchi through one Indranil (member of CPI (Maoist)). I
further handed over the amount to Akhil Gogoi in cash in Guwahati. During
this meeting Akhil Gogoi asked me if there is any information regarding when
the training will start. I told him there was no information regarding it and that I
would inform him whenever I get any update. During April-May, 2007, Amit Bagchi visited Assam again. Akhil Gogoi met
him and told him that he needs funds for KMSS activities and expenditures of
cadres/members of KMSS selected for training with CPI (Maoist). Amit Bagchi
told Akhil Gogoi that he will bear their expenditure. Later, in April (around Bihu), 2008, a meeting was held in Rahmaya Gaon,
Distt. Dibrugarh, Assam, which was attended by Amit Bagchi, Akhil Gogoi,
Molan Laskar, Dharmeswar Saikia, Aditya Bora, Tinraj and Ajay Sabar. I do not
know the contents of the meeting. After 3-4 days, Amit Bagchi, along with me, visited LP School nearby
ancestral place of Akhil Gogoi at Jorhat, and had a secret meeting with Akhil
Gogoi. I do not know the contents of the meeting. During summer season of
2008, Indranil conveyed me the message of Amit Bagchi to meet with Akhil
Gogoi and prepare batches of 5 cadres/members to be sent for training. Akhil
 Page No.# 21/56

Gogoi prepared batch of 5 cadres/members and sent me their age.
Accordingly, I booked tickets for all 05 of them using the party funds (of CPI
(Maoist)). Those 05 cadres met me at Guwahati. Akhil Gogoi talked to me

and it was decided that 2nd batch of 05 cadres will arrive at Howrah Junction

after the 1st batch leaves Howrah Junction. I can recall name of only one member of 1 st batch as Dimbeswar Gogoi

R/o Merapani. Golaghat. I took the 1 st batch to Howrah Junction from
Guwahati by Saraighat Express. At Howrah, I handed them over to Indranil for
their further journey to Maoist camps. I stayed at Howrah for the night. The next day 2nd batch of 05 cadres/members arrived at Howrah
Junction and I met them there as per previous plans decided by Akhil Gogoi. I
handed then over to Indranil for their further journey to Maoist camps, and I
returned to Guwahati After few days I met Akhil Gogoi and informed him that
all 10 cadres have been sent to the Maoist training camps. Later in 2008, I received Rs. 60,000/- in cash sent by Amit Bagchi through
one Indranil (member of CPI (Maoist)). I further handed over the whole
amount to Akhil Gogoi in cash in Guwahati for further activities. In 2009, I went to Golaghat and met Akhil Gogoi there, and it was

decided that the 3rd batch of 05 cadres (03 males + 02 females) would be
sent to Maoist training camps. I asked him to provide with the age of the
cadres to book tickets for them. I came back to Guwahati and booked
tickets for 05 cadres for their journey from Guwahati to Howrah Junction by
Saraighat Express. I met them in a meeting at Guwahati where Akhil Gogoi
 Page No.# 22/56

 introduced them to me and briefed them about their visit to Maoist camps. I
 can recall names of 03 of those members as Deepali Gogoi. R/o Distt.
 Golaghat, Kishor Das, R/o Distt. Darrang, Sarat Saikia, R/o GaonTengani, Distt.-
 Golaghat. I took all 05 of them to Howrah Junction from Guwahati by
 Saraighat Express. At Howrah, I handed them over to Indranil for their further
 Journey to Maoist camps, and I returned to Guwahati. After some days I met
 Akhil Gogoi and informed him that the 3rd batch has been sent to the Maoist
 training camps. On being asked I state that party had been providing regular funds to
 Akhil Gogoi for party (CPI (Maoist)) activities, and special funds for special

 programs time to time". 28. As noted above, the statement of protected witness "C" was included in the

additional charge-sheet submitted on 29.06.2021. Protected Witness "C" has stated

as follows :- They extorted money through his associates, party member or voluntaries
 of his organization, he first raise demand for money to the industrialists of non
 Assamese and Assamese business man. If his demand not fulfilled then he
 started to create pressure though using media and in the plea of RTI. He is
 very clever he never protests at the time of purchase of land or any
 infrastructure construction. When business man invests a large amount and he
 Page No.# 23/56

is in middle of a business project, then Mr. Akhil Gogoi demand money as levy.
Mr. Akhil Gogoi demanded in crores for this type of extortion, he even
gathered people by means of giving money Rs. 250/- to Rs. 150/- and also
provide them food and alcohol free. Another style of extortion he do that he stopped lorries or trucks of Supari
(Beetle Nuts), Ada (Ginger), Haldi (Turmeric), Dhan (Paddy) in high ways,
mostly in forest areas by his party people. Mr. Akhil Gogoi does to settlement
in yearly or monthly payment basis and as per scale of business. If business
man not paid the levy to Mr. Akhil Gogoi then his man beat drivers and do
damage to the truck. Even Mr. Akhil Gogoi demands from trucks coming to
Assam with fish, eggs and Paan Pata. No trucks can enter Assam from outside
without paying levy to Mr. Akhil Gogoi. Mr. Akhil Gogoi also demands money from the business man of outsider
who runs whole sale business with sugar cane product in the false plea of they
are making illegal alcohol. This extortion is running in the name of "Mod Mukto
Akhom". The leader of Nari Mukti Mr. Akhil Gogoi is also runs a dirty business in the
name of "Nari Mukti" he trapped business man and high government officials
in honey trap and then do black mail to the person and demand money for
settlements or used them as and when required. To run it successfully Mr. Akhil
Gogoi also does some good social work like settlement of rifts in families to
create a good image of Nari Mukti Sangathan. Another style of extortion of Mr. Akhil Gogoi is using Tea labours of Assam.
In Assam there are huge fallow lands, which are not Tea garden after British
 Page No.# 24/56

period, but the adjoining area. If any person purchase the land and started to
do some business then Mr. Akhil Gogoi send his party members who are
belongs to tea labour union "Cha Srahmik Mukti" and creates problem to the
business man by agitation and dharna gherao. And then place his high
demand of money to settlements. Mr. Akhil Gogoi also runs illegal cattle business which is smuggled to
Bangladesh. With this he gets supports from the Muslim community mostly they
are Silothiya Muslims and Bengali Muslims. This business runs through the Muslim
members of Krishak Mukti. I know this because I personally experienced and suffered a lot. Mr. Akhil
Gogoi demanded money fifty lakhs from me for one year. He threatens me
that I will be killed anytime and his people are watching me and my family
every moment. He also declared that he runs much more strong and lethal
organization than ULFA a terrorist organization. I know Mr. Akhil Gogoi, from
last five years as an antisocial criminal and extortionist, who creates terror to
the business man till he not go for monetary settlements. When am not
responded to his demand he called me to do meeting with him, but I am not
willing to bow down for his legitimate demand because am not doing any
wrong business and paying tax to the Government of Assam as well as
Government of India. My family pressurized me to leave Assam and started newly in other state
of India. Anyhow Mr. Akhil Gogoi came to know about our plan, then he also
threaten me and I have come to know that he is Krishak Mukti Snagram
Samity has association with "MAOIST" who have a network in all over India and
they will kill me and my family in accident or other means. Page No.# 25/56

 On being asked about identifying of his photographs, I voluntarily ready

 to identify his photos, I know him since I passed 10 th Exam Mr. Akhil Gogoi is
 living my area." 29. According to the appellant's counsel, the statements of these witnesses, read

in the context of other materials available on record including the transcript of

intercepted telephonic conversations between the accused No.1, other accused

persons and their associates, clearly goes to show that there was a clarion call from

the accused No.1 as the leader of the organization called KMSS asking the public to

resort to violent protest by resorting economic blockade, torching of Government

vehicles, destruction of properties including Railway Stations and also 'gheraoing'

important public functionaries including the Chief Minister of Assam. It is in such

context that the appellant's counsel has argued that it was incumbent upon the

learned trial court to consider these materials before reaching a conclusion whether

there are materials for framing charge against the accused persons in the light of section 15 of the UA(P) Act by holding that the accused persons are acting as

members of a "terrorist gang" which was not done in this case. 30. The expressions "terrorist gang" has been defined in Section 2(l) of the UA(P)

Act, 1967 which is reproduced herein below :- Page No.# 26/56 31. "Terrorist act" is defined in Section 15 of the UA(P) Act, which is reproduced

herein below :- 32. Section 227 of the Cr.P.C. enjoins a duty upon the Court to discharge the

accused by recording reasons for doing so if the Judge, on consideration of materials

on record finds that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused. Section 228 of the Cr.P.C. on the other hand, lays down the procedure for framing of

charge if the Judge is of the opinion that there is ground for presuming that the

accused has committed an offence. 33. Law is well settled by a long line of judicial pronouncements that at the stage

of framing of charge the court is not required to indulge into a roving enquiry but

must weigh and sift the evidence for the limited purpose of arriving at a satisfaction

as to whether, there are grounds to proceed against the accused persons. 34. In State of Bihar vs. Ramesh Singh reported in (1977) 4 SCC 39 the Supreme

Court had the occasion to interpret Sections 227 and 228 of the Cr.P.C. and lay down

the tests and considerations to be applied by the court for framing charge. It was

held that in the initial stage the duty of the court is to consider the record of the case

and the documents submitted therewith and to hear submission of the accused and

prosecution in that behalf. Reading sections 227 and 228 of Cr.P.C in juxtaposition, it

would be clear that at the beginning and the initial stage of the trial the truth,

veracity and effect of evidence which the prosecutor proposes to adduce are not to

be meticulously judged nor is any weight to be attached to the probable defence of
 Page No.# 28/56

the accused. It is not obligatory for the Judge at that stage of the trial to consider in

any detail and weigh in a sensitive balance whether the facts, if proved, would be

incompatible with the innocence of the accused or not. At that stage, the court is

not to see whether there is sufficient ground for conviction of the accused or whether

the trial is sure to end in his conviction. At that stage if there is a strong suspicion

leading the court to think that there is ground for presuming that the accused has

committed an offence then it is not open to the court to say that there is no sufficient

ground for proceeding against the accused. 35. In a subsequent decision rendered in the case of Prafulla Kumar Samal (supra),

the principles applicable for exercising jurisdiction under Sections 227 and 228 Cr.P.C.

have been laid down in paragraph 10, which are reproduced herein below for ready

reference :- 36. By taking note of the decisions in the case of Ramesh Singh (supra) and Prafulla Kumar Samal (supra) laying down the principles for exercise of jurisdiction

under Section 227 of the Cr.P.C., the Supreme Court has made the following

observations in paragraph 14 in the case of Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad (supra) :- Page No.# 30/56 37. In the decision rendered in the case of Dipakbhai Jagdishchandra Patel (supra) relied upon by Mr. K. N. Choudhury, the Supreme Court has re-stated the

principles that would come into play at the stage of framing of charge. The

observations made in paragraph 23 are reproduced herein below for ready

reference :- 38. In the case of Niranjan Singh Karam Singh Punjabi, Advocate (supra) the

Supreme Court has observed that Section 227 Cr.P.C. confers a special power on the

Judge to discharge an accused at the threshold if upon consideration of the records

and the documents he considers that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding

against the accused. It was further observed that since at the stage of framing of
 Page No.# 31/56

charge the Judge is at the stage of deciding whether or not there exists sufficient

ground for framing charge, his enquiry must necessarily be limited to deciding if the

facts emerging from the record and documents constitute the offence with which

the accused is charged. At that stage the Judge is not required to marshal the

evidence with a view to separate the grain from the chaff. If the evidence which the

prosecutor proposes to adduce to prove the guilt of the accused is fully accepted

before it is challenged by cross-examination or rebutted by the defence evidence, if

any, cannot show that the accused had committed the offence, then there will be

no sufficient ground for proceeding with the trial. 39. In the case of Yogesh (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed that at

the stage of framing charge the Judge would have the power to sift and weigh the

materials for the limited purpose of finding out whether a prima-facie case against

the accused has been made out. The test to determine a prima-facie case depends

upon the facts of each case and in this regard it is neither feasible nor desirable to lay

down a rule of universal application. 40. Dealing with the definition of a 'prima-facie case' the Hon'ble Supreme Court

has made the following observations in the case of Amit Kapoor vs. Ramesh Chander

and another reported in (2012) 9 SCC 460 :- 41. From a careful analysis of the law laid down in the decisions referred to herein

above, what would be evident is that at the stage of framing of charge the Judge is

not required to meticulously sift the materials on record and come to a conclusion as

regards the culpability of the accused persons but is merely required to consider as

to whether, the facts emerging from the record placed before the court makes out a

prima-facie case and raises a strong suspicion so as to presume that there is a

probability that the accused persons have committed the offence charged by the

prosecution. Upon consideration of the record if the court is of the view, for reasons to

be recorded, that the materials are insufficient to raise a strong suspicion giving rise to

a presumption that the accused has committed an offence then it must be held that

there is no sufficient ground to proceed against him. If on the other hand, it is found

that the record discloses facts so as to raise a strong suspicion against the accused,

the court cannot say that there is no ground to proceed against the accused person.

The satisfaction of the court, either ways, is subjective but the same must be based on

objective materials available on record. In the light of the observations made here- Page No.# 33/56

in-above, let us now examine the findings recorded by the learned Special Judge,

NIA in the impugned judgment in respect of each of the four accused persons. 42. A. Findings recorded with regard to accused No.1 (A-1), (Sri Akhil Gogoi) :- Page No.# 34/56 117) In the statement of W-3 also, A-1 is stated to be talking about closure and
blockade. It is also revealed in the statement that on the next day shops, markets
were automatically closed. In the statement of W-4, A-1 is stated to be talking about
shut down in town of Sivasagar. From the expression - supervising execution of the
bandh against CAB - in the statement of witness Shahjahan, it cannot be
automatically inferred prima-facie that accused had instructed about destruction of
essential supplies or that the same amounts to abetment or commission of an act of
terrorism defined in Section 15 of the Act. Further, there are also no telephone
conversations with regard to non-listed witness Shahjahan. 118) I am of the considered view that apart from other materials, the following
components of the speeches of Sri Akhil Gogoi (A-1) has an important bearing on
ascertaining his intention with regard to terrorism and sedition and may be

reproduced hereunder: Page No.# 35/56 120) There is one statement at the end about stopping transportation of natural
resources from Assam. There is no material to indicate that such stoppage of natural
resources from this part of the country to the rest took place as a result of any such
statement by A-1. Moreover, that statement alone cannot be used to impute frame
charge for terrorism. 121) In this context, it might be also relevant to mention herein that there are no
materials whatsoever, about Sri Akhil Gogoi (A-1) making any imputations prejudicial
to unity and integrity of India or national integration. 122) Only on the basis of the statements of some of the witnesses about A-1
speaking about blockade and closure, it cannot be said that there are prima facie
materials to indicate that such talk of blockade was with an intention to threaten the
economic security of India so as to constitute an offence of advocating commission of
a terrorist act. That would not be a correct prima facie deduction, for the purpose of
framing charge. 123) Even if the statements of some of the witnesses attributing talk of shut down
etc. to A-1 are accepted on face value - in the backdrop of any non-incitement to
violence and appeals for peace in his speech in D-56 - it cannot said that there is a
prima facie case for inferring that - A-1 advocated or advised causing death,
destruction of properties or disruption of essential supplies with the use of bombs,
dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other
lethal weapons or poisonous or noxious gases or other chemicals or by any other
substances (whether biological radioactive, nuclear or otherwise) of a hazardous
nature or by any other means of whatever nature (ejusdem generis), with the intention
of threatening the unity, integrity, security, economic security, or sovereignty of India
or with intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people or any section of the
people in India. Therefore, I am of the considered view that these statements and
conversations do not make out any offence u/s 18 UA (P) Act - of conspiracy,

abetment, advise, advocacy of a terrorist act defined in S.15 of the Act ." Page No.# 36/56

B. Findings recorded as regards accused No.2 (A-2) (Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya

 Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar) :- At one point, A-2 Dhaijya Konwar asks A-4 whether he is able to shut down somewhere
in Guwahati, whereupon A-4 replies that there is already a shutdown and they don't
need to do anything. In the conversation of A-2 Dhaijya Konwar with A-1 Akhil Gogoi
on 10.12.2019 at 16:26, A-2 Dhaijya Konwar says that he is at Dispur last gate, where
many people have gathered. A-1 Akhil Gogoi tells that they should do something
positive. A-1 Akhil Gogoi further asks whether people have enclosed the house of a
senior Cabinet minister, to which A-2 Dhaijya Konwar replies in the affirmative. 76) What emerges from the statement of Sri Maina Deka, (witness no. 11), to the
effect that - during the period - 09.12.2019 to 13.12.2019, as per the directions of A-1,
this witness was in the KMSS office in Guwahati and in close contact with A-1 and
other leaders of KMSS - is that A-2 might have been involved in the protest activities
against CAB, but the statement does not necessarily indicate or implicate A-2 in
incitement to violence or commission of any terrorist act. 77) Document D-59 - the scrutiny report of videos (serial no. 2, 3, 5 and 8) - indicate
the involvement of A-2 Dhaijya Konwar in political protests against CAB, but does not
in my considered view contain any implications therein, especially vis-à-vis violence
and terrorism, for framing charge for these offences. 78) With regard to the conversations of A-2 Dhajya Konwar with A-4 Bittu Sonowal
and A-1 Akhil Gogoi in D-34, I am of the considered view that it cannot be taken as
indicating conspiracy to commit offences or incitement to violence or commission of
 Page No.# 38/56

terrorist acts on the part of A-2 Dhaijya Konwar, so as to frame charge thereunder. 79) Upon perusal and analysis of the statements of witness Sri Sunil Sonowal
(charge-sheet witness) and Hussain Mohammad Shahjahan (not a charge-sheet
witness), it is clear that the KMSS and its associates were involved in planning,
coordinating and executing protest activities against the citizenship law (CAB)
proposed and later passed by the Government of India. In this context, judicial notice
can also be taken that around the relevant there were lot of protest activities in the
State over this law, carried out by various peoples and organizations, involving
bandhs, disruption of transport, supplies and administrative work. Unfortunately, the
protests also led to violence and damage to property. However, there are no prima
facie materials to connect Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A- 2) to incitement to violence and vandalism. 80) The voice conversations and the video footage discussed above, also prima
facie do not implicate A-2 Dhaijya Konwar. 81) From the materials, I could not find anything on the part of Sri Dhirjya Konwar @
Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) which can be seen to be promoting enmity
between different communities or being an act prejudicial to maintenance of
harmony in society and therefore, there are no materials to frame any charge u/s-
153-A IPC against him. Reference may be made to Manzar Sayeed Khan (supra). 82) There are also no materials whatsoever, about Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya
Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) making any imputations or assertions prejudicial to
national integration. Therefore, there is no case for framing any charge against A-2 u/s
153B IPC. 83) I do not find any implications against A-2 in the statement of witnesses including
that of two protected witnesses, who have not even mentioned the name of A-2. The
 Page No.# 39/56

telephone conversation transcripts at the CDR analysis do reveal that the accused
person A-2 as a member of KMSS was involved in protests against the citizenship law
along with others and that he was also involved in coordinating such protest.
However, the said materials do not indicate any conspiracy with regard to committing
violence or inciting violence. The statement of witness Shahjahan, who is not even a
listed PW, is also not sufficient in my considered view to come to any prima facie
finding for the purpose of framing charge that A-2 was involved in any act of inciting
violence, or commission of any terrorist act or trying overawe the government through
violence himself by way of sedition. The findings stated in the charge sheet when
compared with the other materials such as statement and documents, do not find
support therein. 84) The telephone conversations, the CDR analysis and statements of some of the
witnesses definitely indicate that Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya
Konwar (A-2) was involved in protests against the CAA and also coordinating such
protests with others, including co-accused. However, the materials are grossly
inadequate to prima facie attribute any conspiracy. There is nothing to indicate that
A-3 along with co-accused or others made agreement to commit offences and / or to
commit some legal acts illegally. There are no prima facie materials to indicate that he
was involved in conspiracy to commit violence and to indicate his linkage with the
vandalism etc. that took place in December 2019, during the CAA protests. Thus, there
is no case whatsoever to frame charges against Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar
@ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) u/s 120 (B) IPC . 85) Keeping in mind the principles laid down in Kedar Nath Singh (supra) as stated
earlier, there are no materials indicating involvement of Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya
Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) in any act of inciting violence, or trying to overawe
the government through violence, so as to constitute sedition. Thus, I come to the
considered finding that there is no prima facie case to frame charge against Sri
Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) u/s 124-A IPC , on the basis
of the aforesaid materials. Page No.# 40/56 86) There are no materials indicating incitement to violence by Sri Dhirjya Konwar @
 Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) and no prima facie material to link him to any
 specific vandalism. 87) In my considered view, there are no prima facie materials to support any
 finding that - Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) committed
 or attempted or abetted, advocated, advised a terrorist act within the clauses of Section 15 (1) and that any such act was done or sought to be done with the intention
 to threaten the unity, integrity, security, economic security, or sovereignty of India or
 with intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people. That would be too far-
 fetched a conclusion and the materials just do not support that. Thus, there are no
 materials to frame charges against Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya
 Konwar (A-2) u/s 18 UA (P) Act. 88) Regarding Section 39 UA (P) Act, there are absolutely no materials with regard
 to Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) as well. The protected
 witnesses have not uttered a word about A-2. There is no correlation between what
 has been stated in the charge-sheet in this regard and the materials. Thus, there are
 no materials whatsoever to frame charges against Sri Dhirjya Konwar @ Dhajya
 Konwar @ Dhaijya Konwar (A-2) u/s 39 UA (P) Act 89) I also do not find materials to frame charges against A-2 under other penal
 provisions." C. Findings recorded with regard to accused No.3 (A-3) (Manas Konwar @

 Manash Pratim Konwar) :- There is nothing to indicate that A-3 along with co-accused or others made
agreement to commit offences and / or to commit some legal acts illegally. There are
no prima facie materials to indicate that he was involved in conspiracy to commit
violence and to indicate his linkage with the vandalism etc. that took place in
December 2019, during the CAA protests. Thus, there is no case whatsoever to frame
charges against Sri Manas Konwar @ Manash Pratim Konwar (A-3) u/s 120 (B) IPC . Page No.# 43/56 66) Keeping in mind the principles laid down in Kedar Nath Singh (supra), there are
no materials indicating involvement of Sri Manas Konwar @ Manash Pratim Konwar (A- 3) in any act of inciting violence, or trying to overawe the government through
violence, so as to constitute sedition. It has been held in a catena of decisions by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court and various Hon'ble High Courts by applying the principle of Kedar Nath Singh (Supra) that if there is no incitement to imminent public disorder
through violence, criticism of the Government and its policies, even if strongly worded,
would not constitute sedition. Thus, tested on the touchstone of these principles, all
emanating originally from Kedar Nath Singh (supra), I come to the considered finding
that there is no case whatsoever, to frame charge against Sri Manas Konwar @
Manash Pratim Konwar (A-3) u/s 124-A IPC . 67) There are no materials to support any finding that Sri Manas Konwar @ Manash
Pratim Konwar (A-3) was involved in or attempted to do or abetted, advocated,
advised an act, within the any of the clauses of Section 15 (1) and such act done or to
be done with the intention to threaten the unity, integrity, security, economic security,
or sovereignty of India or with intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people.
In the absence of materials indicating incitement to violence and being linked to
vandalism, A-3 talking about the CAA protests, participating in it and coordinating
with others about such protests, cannot by any means constitute justification for trying
A-3 for offences u/ 18 UA (P) Act. Thus, there are no materials to frame charges
against Sri Manas Konwar @ Manash Pratim Konwar (A-3) u/s 18 UA (P) Act. 68) Regarding Section 39 UA (P) Act, which criminalizes giving of support to a
terrorist organization, there are absolutely no materials to support any such proposition
with regard to Sri Manas Konwar @ Manash Pratim Konwar (A-3). The findings in the
charge-sheet in this regard have no correlation with the materials and have no legs to
stand on. Reference may also be made to Yasmin Zahid (supra). I also do not find
materials to frame charges against A-3 under other penal provisions. Page No.# 44/56 69) Thus, I came to the considered finding that on the basis of the aforesaid
 materials, charges cannot be framed against Sri Manas Konwar @ Manash Pratim
 Konwar (A-3)." D. Findings with regard to accused No.4 (A-4) (Bittu Sonowal @ Bitu Sonowal :- fetched a deduction for framing charge against him for any such offence. Page No.# 45/56 95) Next, I carefully analyze the transcripts of the intercepted voice conversations
available in document D-34 and my considered findings are as follows: Page No.# 46/56 96) Upon perusing, considering and analyzing the materials available on record, as
narrated and discussed above, what is revealed is the accused Sri Bittu Sonowal @
Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal (A-4), along with others, is likely to have been involved in
planning, participating and coordinating the protest activities that took place in the
State of Assam, including in Guwahati, especially in the month of December. This
appears from the statements of some of the witnesses, the transcripts of the voice
conversations and the CDR analysis. But there are no materials to implicating him for
violence or its incitement or commission of terrorism or its abetment. 97) Further, from the materials, I could not find any words or deeds on the part of
the Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal (A-4), which can be seen to be
promoting enmity between different communities or being an act prejudicial to
maintenance of harmony in society and therefore, there are no materials to frame
any charge u/s- 153-A IPC against him. 98) There are also no materials whatsoever, about Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal
@ Bitu Sonowal (A-4) making any imputations or assertions prejudicial to national
integration of our country. Therefore, there is no case for framing any charge against
A-4 u/s 153B IPC. 99) The telephone conversations and the CDR analysis definitely indicate that Sri
Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal (A-4) was involved in protests against the
CAA and there are also some materials about his also coordinating such protests with
others, including co-accused. However, the materials are grossly inadequate to
indicate any conspiracy. In fact, the materials are non-existent. Though it is clear that
A-4 participated in CAA protests, there are no prima facie materials to indicate that
he was involved in conspiracy to commit violence and to indicate his linkage with the
violence or its abetment. Thus, I am of the considered finding that there is no case
whatsoever to frame charges against Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal
(A-4) u/s 120 (B) IPC . Page No.# 47/56 100) Keeping in mind the principles laid down in Kedar Nath Singh (supra), there are
no materials indicating involvement of Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal
(A-4) in any act of causing imminent public disorder through violence, or trying to
overawe the government through violence, so as to constitute sedition. Thus, tested
on the touchstone of the principles emanating from Kedar Nath Singh (supra), I come
to the considered finding that there is no case whatsoever, to frame charge against Sri
Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal (A-4) u/s 124-A IPC . 101) There are also no materials to support any finding that Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu
Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal (A-4) was involved in or attempted to do or abetted,
advocated, advised an act, within the any of the clauses of Section 15 (1) and such
act done or to be done with the intention to threaten the unity, integrity, security,
economic security, or sovereignty of India or with intent to strike terror or likely to strike
terror in the people. In the absence of materials indicating incitement to violence and
being linked to violence, vandalism or terrorist act, A-4 participating in CAA protests
and coordinating with others about such protests, cannot by any means constitute
justification for trying A-4 for offences u/ 18 UA (P) Act. Thus, I come to the considered
finding that there are no materials to frame charges against Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu
Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal (A-4) u/s 18 UA (P) Act. 102) Regarding the offence of giving support to a terrorist organization punishable
u/s 39 UA (P) Act, there are absolutely no materials with regard to A-4 also, to try him
for that penal provision. The findings in the charge-sheet in this regard are not at all
supported by the other materials. Thus, I come to the considered finding that there are
no materials to frame charges against Sri Bittu Sonowal @ Bittu Sonwal @ Bitu Sonowal
(A-4) u/s 39 UA (P) Act. 103) Summing up the discussion, the statement of witness Sri Jugal Gogoi that on the
direction of A-1 and A-4, he along with others were protesting against CAA since
November 2019 and that between 09.12.2019 and 13.12.2019 he was involved in
 Page No.# 48/56

 various protest against CAA in Dhemaji - cannot be seen as prima facie implicating
 against A-4. The statement of Maina Deka also does not prima facie incriminate. The
 statement of H.M. Shahjahan, who is not even a listed witness, about A-4 and others
 coordinating of execution of bandh against CAB also do not lead to prima-facie
 satisfaction about A-4 involved in conspiracy abetment etc. of terrorist act or the
 offence of sedition, in view of other materials on record. There are no materials linking
 A-4 to any incitement of violence or involvement in violence. Though there are some
 materials about his involvement in protest against CAB - which is also admitted
 position of the defence. The statement of the other witnesses does not contain prima
 facie implication whatsoever against A-4. The CDR analysis indicate that he was
 exchanging calls with other co-accused and other people and that he was interested
 and involved in protesting against CAA. However, the transcripts of the conversation
 do not contain any materials indicating prima facie commission of offence by A-4. The
 materials on record also do not indicate any offence of conspiracy, as already stated.
 Further, on the basis of the materials I do not find any grounds whatsoever to frame
 charges against A-4 u/s- 124A/153B/153B IPC . There are also no materials to frame any
 charges under the provisions of the UA (P) Act pertaining to offences of terrorism.
 Consequently, there is no other option but to come to the inevitable finding in my
 considered view that there is no justification to frame any charges against A-4. 104) I also do not find materials to frame charges against A-4 under other penal
 provisions." 43. A conjoint reading of Section 2(l) and Section 15 of the UA(P) Act makes it

evident that in order to maintain a charge brought under Section 15 of the UA(P) Act

it is not necessary for the prosecution to show that the accused person is a member

of a "terrorist organization" within the meaning of Section 2(m) of the UA(P) Act. What

must be shown is that the accused persons have committed a terrorist act by

resorting to any of the means included in section 15 of the UA(P) Act. Once it is found
 Page No.# 49/56

that the record discloses facts which prima facie indicate that there are ingredients

of section 15 r/w 2(l) of the UA(P) Act than it would be incumbent upon the Special

Court to frame charge against the accused. 44. Coming to the facts of this case, on a careful scrutiny of the impugned

judgment, we find that the learned trial court has recorded elaborate findings so as

to arrive at the conclusion that the prosecution has failed to produce sufficient

materials to show that the accused persons were members of a "terrorist

organization". Such finding, prima-facie, appear to be based on cogent materials on

record. However, what is significant to note herein that there is no clear finding in the

impugned judgment as to why the alleged activities indulged by the accused

persons such as calls for blockade and closure, plans for shut-down, enclosing the

house of Cabinet Ministers, disruption of transport and supplies and incidents of

violence, which the learned court below has taken note of, if accepted to be correct

would not come within the meaning of Section 2(l) read with Section 15 of the UA(P)

Act. 45. In the above context, it would be pertinent to note here-in that according to

the learned Special Judge, NIA, there is no material available on record to frame

charge against any of the accused persons. We, however, do not find cogent

reasons recorded in the impugned judgment as to why, the statements of the

witnesses and other documents placed on record along with the charge sheets

submitted by the NIA were not found to be sufficient to frame charge against any of

the accused persons. This we say so on account of the fact that in paragraph 120 of
 Page No.# 50/56

the impugned judgment, the learned Special Judge, NIA has himself observed that

there is a statement of the A-1 for stopping transportation of natural resources from

Assam but he has ignored the said statement of the witness by holding that there is

no material to indicate that such stoppage of natural resources from this part of the

country actually took place as a result of such statement of the A-1. The above

aspect of the matter, in our opinion, would lie in the domain of trial and therefore, the

learned Judge was not correct in recording such an opinion at the time of framing of

charge by conducting a mini trial. 46. Likewise, we also find that the learned Judge has taken note of the statements

of the witnesses who have heard the A-1 speaking about blockade and closure (shut

down) but had ignored such statements by holding that there was no material to

indicate that such talk of blockade was with the intention to threaten the economic

security of India. We disagree with such observation of the learned trial judge purely

on account of the fact that whether the call for economic blockade was with the

requisite intention of threatening the economic security of India or not is a matter of

trial whereby it would be incumbent upon the prosecution to establish such intention

by adducing cogent evidence on record. Therefore, in our opinion, it was not open

for the learned trial court to record a finding on the intention of the accused persons

at the stage of faming of charge by resorting to a roving enquiry in the matter. 47. We also find that the learned trial court has taken note of the transcript of the

intercepted telephonic conversations and other documents relied upon by the

prosecution and held that those were not sufficient to frame charge against the
 Page No.# 51/56

accused persons. However, as would be apparent from the findings of the learned

Special Judge alluded to above, proper reasons have not been recorded as to why,

such record prima-facie did not make out a ground for proceeding against the

accused persons under Section 15(1) read with Section 18 of the UA(P) Act. There is

also no specific finding to the effect that the documents and statements available on

record, even if taken on the face value, cannot lead to conviction of the accused

persons under any of the sections pressed into service by the prosecution. 48. In the case of Kedar Nath (supra) relied upon by the learned Special Judge, the

Supreme Court had the occasion to interpret Section 124-A of the IPC and held that

the aforesaid provision would be applicable when the activities complained of are

intended to or have a tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace

by resort to violence. Here also, we do not find proper reasons recorded in the

impugned judgment as to why the activities of the members of the organization led

by the accused No.1 resorting to acts of violence and vandalism, if found to be done

with the intent of creating public disorder and/or disturbance and/or economic

blockade, would not constitute an offence within the meaning of Section 124-A of

the IPC read with Sections 15(1) of the UA(P) Ac. We, therefore, find sufficient force in

the submission of Mr. Saikia that had the appellant (prosecution) been granted a fair

opportunity to place their case after submission of the additional charge-sheet on

29.06.2021, they could have pointed out from the record, in the light of the provisions

of the UA(P) Act and the IPC , to demonstrate that there were materials available

before the learned court to frame charge against the accused persons. Whether

such contention of the prosecution is found to be acceptable or not in the facts and
 Page No.# 52/56

circumstances of the case, is an entirely different matter but the prosecution was

entitled to a fair opportunity to present its case. 49. By the impugned order, the learned trail court had discharged the accused

persons by relying upon the ratio laid down in the cases of ( 1) Union of India vs.

Yasmeen Mohd. Zahid reported in (2019) 7 SCC 790, (2) Malsawmkimi vs. NIA

reported in 2012 SCC OnLine Gau 897, (3) Manzar Sayeed Khan vs. State of

Maharashtra reported in (2007) 5 SCC 1, (4) Kedar Nath vs. State of Bihar reported in AIR 1962 SC 955, (5) Mohd. Husain Umar Kochra vs. K. S. Dalipsinghji reported in (1969)

3 SCC 429, (6) Rajender vs. State (NCT of Delhi) reported in (2019) 10 SCC 623 and (7)

State vs. Nalini reported in(1999) 5 SCC 253. There can be no quarrel with the

propositions of law laid down in the aforesaid decisions and in all probability, the

principles emanating therefrom would also come into play, at some stage, in the

present case as well. But what is to be borne in mind is that this case was at an initial

stage where the court was concerned with the question of framing charge against

accused persons after assessing the record. At that stage, the Judge was not

supposed to hold a mini trial by resorting to meticulous sifting of evidence so as to

form an opinion on the culpability of the accused but was required to only consider,

on an assessment of the record placed before him, if there was sufficient ground to

proceed against the accused persons. At that stage, the court was also not to be

concerned with the question of conviction of the accused persons. If charge is

ultimately framed, the burden of proving the same beyond reasonable doubt will

always be on the prosecution which burden it will have to discharge during trial. Page No.# 53/56 50. It is no doubt correct that the advent of CAB/ CAA had triggered wide spread

public resentment across the state of Assam leading to sporadic out-break of protests

across the state. A number of organizations had also participated in such protests. It is

also correct that the members of the public have a constitutional right to resort to

peaceful protest in such matters. The fact however, remains that the prosecution is

relying upon the record to show that the protests and agitations resorted to by the

accused persons during the relevant time, in some places, had turned violent. They

have also relied upon the record to prima-facie show that there were calls for

economic blockade and incidents of violence leading to destruction of public

properties. It is also the admitted position of fact that A-1 , being the leader of KMSS,

in association and with the active support of his followers, had not only mobilized the

public and persuaded them to join the agitation in protest against the CAB/CAA but

had also spear-headed such agitation in many places. During the course of the

agitation, incidents of violence did break out in many places. Therefore, the core

issue that would arise for consideration in the present case is as to whether, the

record discloses sufficient facts to raise a strong suspicion against the accused

persons to prima facie indicate that in course of the agitation, the accused persons

had resorted to any illegal activity which was punishable under the law. If the answer

is in the negative, then the same must lead to the discharge of the accused.

Otherwise, the learned trial court would be under a legal obligation to frame charge

against the accused persons. 51. At the time of hearing of this appeal, the learned counsel for both the sides

have addressed elaborate arguments touching upon the merit of the case by taking
 Page No.# 54/56

us through the bulk of documents available on record. However, in view of the

recourse we propose to adopt in this case and in order to avoid any prejudice being

caused to either party, it would neither be necessary nor proper for us to mention in

great details, the projections made by both the sides. It would, nonetheless, be

apposite to mention herein that although we find that the learned trial Judge had

undertaken a laborious exercise in writing a lengthy judgment, yet, we are of the

opinion that the findings recorded therein are primarily directed towards existence or

otherwise of the grounds for conviction of the accused persons rather than existence

of grounds to proceed against them. 52. We also find that while exercising jurisdiction under sections 227 and 228 of the

Cr.P.C the learned Special Judge has travelled way beyond the level of sifting of

evidence that is permissible at the stage of charge framing and instead, has gone on

to weigh the materials produced by the prosecution to record a finding on the

question of guilt of the accused persons. Such a recourse, in our opinion, was neither

permissible in law nor called for in the facts and circumstances of the case. Therefore,

on a careful reading of the impugned judgment and order dated 01.07.2021, we are

of the considered opinion that the impugned judgment has the trappings of an order

of acquittal rather than an order of discharge. As such, the approach of the learned

Special Judge, NIA, in our considered opinion, was clearly erroneous in the eye of

law, thus having a vitiating effect on the impugned judgment. 53. For the reasons stated above, we are of the considered opinion that the entire

matter calls for re-consideration by the learned Special Judge, NIA. We accordingly,
 Page No.# 55/56

set aside the impugned order dated 01.07.2021 and remand the matter back to the

learned trial court to conduct a fresh hearing on the question of framing of charge

against all the four accused persons. In doing so, it will be open for the learned

Special Judge to record fresh reasons, in the light of the observations made above,

as regards existence or otherwise of materials for framing charge against all or any of

the accused persons. It would also be open for the learned Special Judge, NIA to

consider, if this is a case where charge can be framed against the accused persons

under the UA(P) Act or whether charge needs to be framed against all or any of

them only under the provisions contained in the IPC . On such consideration, if it is

found that the statements of the witnesses and the documents on record are not

sufficient to frame charge against the accused persons under any of the provisions of

the UA(P) Act but there are materials to frame charge under the provisions of the IPC ,

then in that event, the learned court below may invoke jurisdiction under Section 20 of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 and transfer the matter for trial by the

competent court having jurisdiction in the matter. 54. Since the learned court below has expressed anxiety as regards the delay

caused in this matter thereby hampering progress in other cases pending before the

Special (NIA) Court, we request the learned court below to conduct charge-hearing

in this case as expeditiously as possible, if necessary, by conducting hearing on a

day-to-day basis. Facilitating the above, both the parties are directed to appear

before the learned court below on 23.02.2023. 55. Our attention has also been drawn to the fact that the accused No.1 (Sri Akhil
 Page No.# 56/56

Gogoi) was in custody and pursuant to the order of discharge dated 01.07.2021, he

has been released. We do not wish to make any observation in this regard save and

except providing that if any bail application is moved on behalf of the accused

No.1(A-1), the same shall be considered by the learned trial Judge as per law, on its

own merit and without being influenced by any observation made in this order. The

remaining accused persons may be permitted to remain on previous bail. With the above observation, the appeal stands allowed to the extent indicated

above. Send back the LCR.