Jammu and Kashmir’s Kishtwar district has begun the use of an “AI Based Facial Recognition Camera & E-Beat book Mobile App” to help digitise data of beats, improve record-building and police verifications. As per The Print , the app also allows the police to “trace and monitor terrorists, over ground workers, former terrorists, drug-peddlers and those wanted in other criminal activities.”

Sh.Anand Jain IPS IGP Jammu, visited district Kistwar,launched E-beat book app for Kishtwar Police to digitise data of beats which will in turn help in record building and Police verifications. @OfficeOfLGJandK @JmuKmrPolice @igpjmu pic.twitter.com/VpSj9GbjuB

— DISTRICT POLICE KISHTWAR (@SSPKishtwar) December 9, 2023

IGP Jammu @anandjainips visits #Kishtwar district Chairs officers meetings, reviews #Security scenario, #law & order #Crime disposal, #inaugurates ''AI Based Facial Recognition Camera & E-Beat book Mobile App". pic.twitter.com/5hSdmLSS2u

— ADGP Jammu (@adgp_igp) December 9, 2023

The report said that the app, introduced as part of smart policing, will use the updated information for character verification as well.

Is facial recognition effective for detecting criminals? In August 2022, the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), a digital rights group, discovered via an RTI that the Delhi police used facial recognition technology to target individuals accused of rioting. The problem was that the technology only has an 80 percent accuracy at best, which is not a satisfactory threshold to label someone a criminal. Yet the Delhi police continued with such inaccuracies because they considered them to be “positive” enough. This worsens bias among law enforcement authorities against certain communities. For a region like Jammu and Kashmir that is prone to communal conflicts, it is important that the police be extremely cautious when employing such technologies.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event