Microsoft Corporation Headquarters: 60 Merriman Road Blackheath London SE3 8RS UNITED KINGDOM Ref: UK/9420X2/70 Batch: 074/05/ZY345C Dear Winner: Sue Pellerin, Congratulations once again on behalf of the Microsoft Lottery  Board your E-mail has won you $500,000.00 and two dell laptop system. We do believe that your winnings will be put into good use for community, educational and business development. Note, No purchase of ticket was required for this draw, all Participants (email addresses) for this draw were randomly selected from a worldwide range of web searchers who use web search engines and other MSN ancillary services and this is how your email was discovered and used among others for this promotion. You have been confirmed as a winner of $500,000 USD(Five hundred thousand United States Dollars) which is your winning payout for Category A winners. This cash is from the total prize money of $12,000,000 USD shared among the 24 lucky winners in this promotion. As you already know,your email address was randomly selected along with others from over 100, 000 email addresses on the internet and each email address was attached to a ticket number. Once again CONGRATULATIONS!! I wish to formally announce to you that you have successfully pass the requirements, statutory obligations, verifications, validations and satisfactory report test conducted for all our online lucky winners. Your payment have been completely processed and approved, it's ready for disbursement to you. Am pleased to inform you that, your Original Certificate and Certified bank Cheque has been issued, they have been parceled along side your won dell laptops for delivery to ensure maximum security until it gets to you which is now in the possession of our affiliated delivery company. Thus, you should contact the courier company immediately as directed below in order for you to know the procedure/requirement of getting your parcel delivered to your designated address. Find below the details of the delivery company. CUSTOMER SERVICE SKYNET COURIER COMPANY-contact info EMAIL: [protected]@hotmail.co.uk TEL: +[protected]. Fax: +[protected]. DISPATCH OFFICER: MR. TERRY MILLER For speedy delivery of your Cheque, you are advice to contact the delivery company with their email address above, to know the shipment cost and how you are to make the necessary payment for them to make the delivery to your contact address.Have it in mind that your won prize cannot be deducted; this is because the total amount has been insured to the real value. This is in accordance with section 13(1)(n) of the National gambling act as adopted in 1993 and amended on 3RD July 1996 by the constitutional assembly. This is to protect winners and to avoid misappropriation of funds. It is imperative that you add your IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS : {PARCEL/NUM/2040} as the subject of any correspondence with the delivery company to ensure that they respond in a timely manner Note: you are to send the following to the delivery company; 1- INFORMATION (a) Name: (b)Sex: (c)Age: (d)Telephone Number: (e)Occupation: (f)Country: 2- Scan copy of your International passport or driver’s license (Means of Identification) Best Regards, Mr. Lampard Nelson, Claims Agent. Microsoft Lottery Board.