I have ordered for two pairs of eye glasses with the help of their sale assistant Ms. Kopal sexena and paid rupees 9945.60 to lenskart through BHIM UPI and got Confirmation message Order Placed at Lenskart.com: John Jacobs Eyeglasses & 1 other. Ref: [protected] for Rs 9945.60. Partial items may be dispatched in different shipments for faster delivery. Complete order delivery by 25 Jan 2021. Track your order: http://lnskt.co/Lo0MpZOO but after some time I got a call from lenskart that you have not given in your prescription PD so we can't make your glasses so I requested acalled back from the sales assistant Ms.Kopal Sexana and she canceled my order and told me to get your refund instantly but it didn't work out so she said I would request my finance team to transfer my refund in my bank account and once you get refund you place another order and pay for that. Order cancelled at Lenskart.com: John Jacobs Eyeglasses, Ref.[protected]. If you have already paid, refund will be initiated within 24-48 hours. On 16 January 2021 I got the message from lenskart that they initiated the refund and it will be credited to my account within 3 days but I didn't received the money in my account even after 2 weeks so I enquired from my bank and got a reply with proof that due to technical error refund was reversed to merchants account on 17 January 2021. Since then I'm writing them to refund my money but not bothered to address the issue and resolve it just writing back same kind of reply every time. I have submitted all the proofs that refund is not successfully credited to my account. [Order ref # [protected]] Good Morning Greetings from Lenskart We would like to inform you that your concern is already escalated and we are following up on same under #12070837, therefore, we request you to please wait for the resolution. For further assistance please revert if you have any, we will be glad to assist you, feel free to write us at [protected]@lenskart.com Thank You, Harpreet Kukreja Resolution Officer This kind of refund scam is a pre planned frauds of lenskart through their sales associates to grab customers hard earned money. Dr.Purushottam Lal Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (6)