The father-in-law of the first respondent filed this petition to quash the

 proceedings initiated by the respondent against him and his son under Section

 125 of Cr.P.C in M.C.No.06 of 2019 on the file of learned District Munsif cum

 Judicial Magistrate, Tirupathur. 2.The respondent married the first respondent in the M.C.No.06 of 2019

 on 04.02.2016. At the time of the marriage, he was working in Saudi Arabia in

 Riyadh City. He came to India on leave for 45 days for marrying the respondent.

 After the marriage, he left the respondent in the matrimonial home and in the

 matrimonial home, she suffered domestic violence at the instance of the father-

 in-law, mother-in-law and the sister-in-law. Therefore, the father-in-law, in the

 month of 2016, driven her out from the matrimonial home. Thereafter, the

 respondent was unable to contact the first respondent, namely son of the second

 respondent. Hence, she was unable to maintain herself. In the said circumstances,

 she filed the maintenance claim petition. That being the situation, the first

 respondent filed a suit in O.S No.19 of 2018 seeking divorce against the

 petitioner and the same was ordered ex-parte. In the said circumstances, she 2/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 claimed maintenance against the father-in-law and her husband. In the

 maintenance petition, she averred that she was unable to get the address of her

 husband and the second respondent namely, father-in-law, is continuously

 receiving the monthly payment from her husband through his account and hence,

 he is added as a party to pay the maintenance. 2.1.The father-in-law has filed this quash petition before this court to

 quash the said maintenance claim petition against him on the ground that he is

 not bound to pay the maintenance under 125 CRPC. Under 125 CRPC, the

 maintenance petition is maintainable only against her husband. Therefore, the

 petition filed against the father-in-law is not maintainable. Hence, he seeks for

 quashing the MC proceeding as against him. 3.The learned counsel for the Wife submitted that before marriage, her

 husband was working in the Riyadh City in Saudi Arabia. After marriage, he left

 India. Within 45 days, she was driven out of the matrimonial home. The

 husband/respondent filed a suit through his father as a power of attorney seeking

 divorce and had obtained ex-parte divorce and the petitioner is intentionally

 refusing to share her husband's place of residence in Saudi Arabia. He is 3/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 receiving the salary of her husband. Therefore, in the peculiar circumstance of

 the case, he was added as party. After the marriage, she is not in a position to

 find out the address of her husband. Further, in all the proceedings, the father-in-

 law acted as a power of attorney of her husband. Even the suit was filed in the

 Munsif court, through her father-in-law as the power of attorney. Hence, in the

 peculiar circumstance of the case, she filed the maintenance claim against the

 father-in-law impleading him and seeking the maintenance through him. She

 further averred that he is continuously receiving amounts from her husband

 every month and hence he also acted as a trustee of her husband. Hence, he is

 duty bound to pay the maintenance amount received from his son. He only

 arranged the marriage of his son. Hence, he is duty bound to maintain her.

 Therefore, she seeks dismissal of this case. 4.This Court considered the rival submission made on either side and also

 perused the mateirla. 5.This Court, at the outset, before going to the issues, extracted the

 provision of the 125 Cr.P.C . 4/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019 6.From the reading of the 125 CRPC proceedings, it is clear that the

 language of the 125 CRPC is that it is maintainable only against the husband.

 Nowadays, all the husband, after entering into marriage, leave the wife in the

 matrimonial home, picking up quarrel with the wife. This case, is not an

 exception. The wife was unable to find out the address of the husband. Further,

 all the proceedings are being represented through his father, namely the

 petitioner herein. Further, she has stated father in law is receiving salary amount

 from her husband and he is duty bound to provide maintenance on behalf of the

 husband. He is in possession of the money received, paid by her husband. Hence,

 he is duty bound to provide maintenance from amount received from her

 husband. 7.Before marriage, the petitioner's son was working in the Riyadh City,

 Saudi Arabia. The petitioner only arranged the marriage of the respondent with

 his son. He only arranged the marriage. Hence, it is his duty to give parental care

 to her by accommodating her in his house namely Matrimonial home. The

 petitioner's son married this innocent respondent and left with custody of the

 petitioner to protect her. But, the petitioner has driven the respondent from the 5/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 matrimonial home. There is serious allegation of Domestic Violence against the

 petitioner and his family members. The petitioner filed the divorce petition

 against the respondent by acting as power of attorney in O.S.No.19 of 2018. He

 alone represented in the suit and clandestinely obtained exparte divorce. Now,

 there is positive averment in the petition that he is receiving the salary of his son. 8.The husband after entering marriage, instead of taking the respondent to

 his workplace and leading married life, left the respondent in the custody of his

 father. He filed divorce petition against her through his father in the capacity of

 power of attorney and obtained exparte divorce decree. Now, he is hiding and

 leading a cushy life by leaving the respondent in lurch. Therefore, he is a

 fraudster. Matrimonial fraud has been committed by him. Therefore, Section 125 of Cr.P.C., should be so interpreted to avoid unworkable or impracticable results.

 The said principle was fortified in the case of Sheffield City Council

 vs. Yorkshire Water Services Ltd., reported in (1991) 1 WLR 58 : (1991) 2 All

 ER 280] , WLR at page No.71, and held as follows: The provisions in Section 125 are intended to achieve this
 special purpose. The dominant purpose behind the
 benevolent provisions contained in Section 125 clearly is 10/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 that the wife, child and parents should not be left in a
 helpless state of distress, destitution and starvation.”

 8.5.(f). Savitri v. Govind Singh Rawat , (1985) 4 SCC 337 : The Code, however, provides a quick remedy to protect
 the applicant against starvation and to tide over immediate
 difficulties. Chapter IX of the Code does not in reality
 create any serious new obligation unknown to Indian social
 life. 6. It is the duty of the court to interpret the
 provisions in Chapter IX of the Code in such a way that the
 construction placed on them would not defeat the very
 object of the legislation. 27. We have said and it needs to be said again, that
 Section 488 is intended to serve a social purpose. It 11/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 provides a machinary for summary enforcement of the
 moral obligations of a man towards his wife and children
 so that they may not, out of sheer destitution become a
 hazard to the well-being of orderly society. 8.5.(g). Danial Latifi v. Union of India , (2001) 7 SCC 740: As far as the first aspect is concerned, it is the duty of the
 courts to curtail them. There need not be hurry but
 procrastination should not be manifest, reflecting the
 attitude of the court. As regards the second facet, it is the
 duty of the court to have the complete control over the
 proceeding and not permit the lis to swim the unpredictable
 grand river of time without knowing when shall it land on 12/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 the shores or take shelter in a corner tree that stands “still”
 on some unknown bank of the river. It cannot allow it to
 sing the song of the brook. “Men may come and men may
 go, but I go on forever.” This would be the greatest tragedy
 that can happen to the adjudicating system which is
 required to deal with most sensitive matters between the
 man and wife or other family members relating to
 matrimonial and domestic affairs. There has to be a
 proactive approach in this regard and the said approach
 should be instilled in the Family Court Judges by the
 Judicial Academies functioning under the High Courts. For
 the present, we say no more. 14..... It can never be forgotten that the inherent and
 fundamental principle behind Section 125 CrPC is for
 amelioration of the financial state of affairs as well as
 mental agony and anguish that a woman suffers when she is
 compelled to leave her matrimonial home. The statute
 commands that there have to be some acceptable
 arrangements so that she can sustain herself. The principle
 of sustenance gets more heightened when the children are
 with her. Be it clarified that sustenance does not mean and
 can never allow to mean a mere survival. A woman, who is
 constrained to leave the marital home, should not be
 allowed to feel that she has fallen from grace and move
 hither and thither arranging for sustenance. As per law, she
 is entitled to lead a life in the similar manner as she would 13/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 have lived in the house of her husband. And that is where
 the status and strata of the husband comes into play and
 that is where the legal obligation of the husband becomes a
 prominent one. As long as the wife is held entitled to grant
 of maintenance within the parameters of Section 125 CrPC,
 it has to be adequate so that she can live with dignity as she
 would have lived in her matrimonial home. She cannot be
 compelled to become a destitute or a beggar. 19. From the aforesaid enunciation of law it is limpid
 that the obligation of the husband is on a higher pedestal
 when the question of maintenance of wife and children
 arises. When the woman leaves the matrimonial home, the
 situation is quite different. She is deprived of many a
 comfort. Sometimes her faith in life reduces. Sometimes, she
 feels she has lost the tenderest friend. There may be a
 feeling that her fearless courage has brought her the
 misfortune. At this stage, the only comfort that the law can
 impose is that the husband is bound to give monetary
 comfort. That is the only soothing legal balm, for she
 cannot be allowed to resign to destiny. Therefore, the lawful
 imposition for grant of maintenance allowance.”

 8.5.(i). Anju Garg and Ors.V. Deepak Kumar Garg, 2022 SCC OnLine
 SC 1314: 9.Therefore, considering the tragic tale of Indian Muslim woman where

 the Muslim husband after entering marriage left her in lurch in India and living

 a lavish life in the foreign country, and she is unable to find out the address for

 even claiming maintenance for herself and her child, this Court to achieve social

 justice enshrined the constitution of India and to prevent vagrancy and

 destitution which is object behind 125 Cr.P.C ., inclines to give the purposive

 interpretation to the word “husband” in Section 125 of Cr.P.C., in such a way 10.The word “husband” includes who are in the custody of the asset of the

 husband in the case love marriage and Father-in-law and Mother-in-law case of

 arranged marriage. The assets may either be in the form of receipt of the salary or

 any other amount from the husband or income from the assets of the husband. 11.It is true that the petition is maintainable against the husband only but,

 now a days, considering the development of law that the husband intentionally

 hide their residence and have contacts only with his parents, this Court

 interpreted the provision of Section 125 of Cr.P.C., against the husband, that

 maintenance can be claimed from the persons including who are in the custody

 of the monetary assets of the husband. The husband is bound to pay the 17/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 maintenance. But in the case of this nature if any of the family members of the

 husband received the salary of the husband, they are bound to pay the

 maintenance amount. In the peculiar circumstance of the case, the Court declines

 to accept the technical plea of the petitioner seeking to a quash the case by taking

 shelter under Section 125 of Cr.P.C., that claim against father-in-law has not

 been provided in the said provision. When father-in-law has acted as power

 agent in other proceedings and regularly getting monthly payment, this technical

 plea can not be accepted. Hence, the said plea is rejected in the peculiar

 circumstances of this case. 12.Accordingly, this criminal original petition is dismissed. Consequently,

 the connected criminal miscellaneous petitions are closed. 15.07.2024
 NCC : Yes/No
 Index : Yes/No
 Internet: Yes/No
 vsg 18/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 To

 The District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate,
 Thiruppathur. 19/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
 Crl.O.P.(MD).No.19353 of 2019

 K.K.RAMAKRISHNAN, J. vsg

 Crl.O.P(MD).No.19353 of 2019
 and
 Crl.M.P(MD). Nos.11356 and 11358 of 2019

 15.07.2024 20/20 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis