AMIT BANSAL, J. 1. The present suit has been filed by the plaintiff seeking relief of
 permanent injunction restraining the defendants from infringing the trade
 mark, selling counterfeits, and passing off along with other ancillary reliefs.
 CASE SETUP IN THE PLAINT 2. Plaintiff [Johnson and Johnson], a company organised and existing
 under the laws of New Jersey, United States of America, is engaged in
 manufacturing consumer healthcare products, medical devices and
 pharmaceutical products. It is stated that the plaintiff has more than two
 hundred thirty (230) subsidiaries and employs more than one lakh thirty Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 1 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 thousand (1,30,000) employees with presence in over sixty (60) countries. 3. Plaintiff's business is diversified into three segments, namely, consumer
 healthcare products, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices. In 1949, the
 plaintiff acquired 'Ethicon Suture Laboratories', later renamed to 'Ethicon Inc'
 which manufactures inter-alia, surgical sutures, bleeding management and
 wound-closing devices. 4. Plaintiff, through its subsidiary Ethicon, manufactures medical devices
 used for bleeding management and sells them under the trade marks
 'SURGICEL' and 'ETHICON'. 5. The plaintiff coined the term 'SURGICEL' in 1957 in relation to a
 sterile absorbable knitted fabric hemostat. In 1960, the plaintiff introduced first
 oxidized regenerated cellulose hemostat under the trade mark 'SURGICEL' for
 controlling bleeding in certain critical surgical procedures. The plaintiff has
 been using the 'SURGICEL' marks in respect of its products in India since the
 1990s. 6. The products sold under the 'SURGICEL' marks are manufactured in
 the plaintiff's state-of-the-art facilities, which have quality control, specialised
 equipment and consistent processes which make the products reliable for
 surgeons. 7. In addition to the marks, the plaintiff has also adopted a unique trade
 dress to distinguish its 'SURGICEL' branded products. Through extensive
 use, the trade dress is exclusively and closely associated by consumers with
 the plaintiff. 8. The mark 'ETHICON' is the house mark of the plaintiff, which is
 used by the plaintiff on its products packaging, as shown below: 9. Plaintiff has also obtained trade mark registrations for its marks
 'SURGICEL' and 'ETHICON', in multiple jurisdictions including India.
 The first trade mark registration for the mark 'SURGICEL' was obtained by
 the plaintiff on 3rd March, 1958. The aforesaid registration certificate
 obtained by the plaintiff has been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/5. The details
 of the registration obtained by the plaintiff in India for its 'SURGICEL'
 marks have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/7 (colly) and Exhibit PW 1/8,
 and the same is reproduced below: 10. The plaintiff, through its subsidiary, has also obtained registration for
 its mark 'ETHICON' and its formative marks across multiple jurisdictions
 including India. The details of the registration obtained by the plaintiff in
 India for its 'ETHICON' marks have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/9 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 3 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 (colly), and the same is reproduced below: 11. It is stated that the products sold under the plaintiff's marks
 'SURGICEL', 'LIGAGLIP' and 'ETHICON' are renowned and the same is
 evidenced from the revenue generated by these products over the years. The
 details of the revenue generated by plaintiff's products sold under the marks
 'SURGICEL', 'LIGAGLIP' and 'ETHICON' have been exhibited as
 Exhibit PW 1/11. 12. In 2019, a neurosurgeon at the University of Kentucky Medical
 Center, United States of America (hereinafter referred to as 'University of
 Kentucky'), observed certain irregularities in surgical devices bearing the
 plaintiff's trade mark 'SURGICEL' while performing a brain surgery. The Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 4 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 said surgeon subsequently reported the complaint to the plaintiff, who, upon
 examination of the impugned product, discovered that the said device was a
 counterfeit. 13. Upon discovering the presence of counterfeit 'SURGICEL' branded
 surgical devices at the University of Kentucky, the plaintiff undertook an
 investigation to determine the source of the infringing goods. The plaintiff's
 inquiry revealed that the University of Kentucky had procured over 1,000
 units of 'SURGICEL' branded surgical devices from a United States of
 America-based entity, XS Supply. The invoice dated 29th April, 2018
 indicating purchase of 1000 units of 'SURGICEL' has been exhibited as
 Exhibit PW 1/13. Consequently, the plaintiff initiated legal proceedings
 against XS Supply and other parties before the United States District Court,
 Middle District of Florida, and executed a seizure at XS Supply's corporate
 offices and warehouse. The complaint dated 11th July, 2019 filed by the
 plaintiff against XS Supply at the United States District Court, Florida has
 been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/14. The emergency motion for an ex-parte
 seizure order moved by the plaintiff before United States District Court,
 Florida, dated 12th July, 2019, has been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/26. The
 seizure order passed by the United States District Court has been exhibited
 as Exhibit PW 1/27. In the course of the proceedings, XS Supply furnished
 records and information demonstrating that the counterfeit 'SURGICEL'
 branded surgical devices had been procured from Lion Heart Surgical
 Supply LLC, an entity based in Florida. The scanned copy of records,
 including purchase order issued by the Lion Heart Surgical Supply LLC to
 XS Supply, has been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/28. 14. Thereafter, the plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint impleading Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 5 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 Lion Heart as a party to the said suit and successfully obtained an ex-parte
 seizure order and preliminary injunction. Thereafter, the plaintiff executed a
 seizure at the Lion Heart's offices, recovering multiple units of
 'SURGICEL' branded surgical devices, which, upon testing, were
 confirmed to be counterfeit. The First Amended Complaint has been
 exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/29 and the order granting preliminary injunction
 has been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/30. Additionally, during the course of
 the seizure, employees of Lion Heart informed the plaintiff's legal
 representatives in the United States that the counterfeit 'SURGICEL'-
 branded surgical devices had been sourced from Pure Care Traders F.Z.E.,
 an entity based in Ajman, UAE. The copies of invoices dated 5th January,
 2019, purchase orders, wire transfer information showing that Lion Heart
 purchased counterfeit products from Pure Care have been exhibited as
 Exhibit PW 1/33 (colly). 15. Simultaneously, Lion Heart produced an email correspondence dated
 27th June, 2019 between Lion Heart and Pure Care, wherein Lion Heart had
 inquired from Mr. Ali Hussain (a partner in Pure Care) to disclose the source
 of the 'SURGICEL' branded surgical devices supplied to them. In response,
 Mr. Ali Hussain provided documentation evidencing that the 'SURGICEL'-
 branded surgical devices had been shipped to Pure Care by one Mr.
 Pritamdas Arora, the proprietor of M/s Medserve based in New Delhi, i.e.,
 the defendant no.1 in the present suit. The email correspondence dated 27th
 June, 2019 between Mr. Ali Hussain and Lion Heart has been exhibited as
 Exhibit PW 1/34. Copy of the sales invoice dated 24th January, 2019 issued
 by the defendant no.1 to Mr. Ali Hussain, a partner in Pure Care along with
 Amarex waybill showing shipment of 'Cotton Gauge' from M/s Medserve Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 6 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 in Delhi to Pure Care in United Arab Emirates and invoice from 'Captain's
 Freight Services FZCO' a shipping and exporter in Dubai, UAE forwarding
 those 70 boxes of 'SURGICEL' from Dubai to Lion Heart which were
 identified as counterfeit have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/35 (colly). 16. Furthermore, the plaintiff discovered that one of Pure Care's other
 customers was an entity named 'Very Nice Deals,' an Illinois, USA-
 incorporated entity operating under the business name 'AK Global Med.'
 Based on its independent research, the plaintiff communicated with Mr.
 Ashraf Abukhalaf, the Sales Director of AK Global, and placed orders for
 controlled test purchases of several 'SURGICEL' branded surgical devices.
 Upon receipt of the shipments, it was found that the products had been
 dispatched directly from defendant no.1's address in New Delhi, rather than
 from AK Global's registered location in Illinois, USA. The invoice dated
 16th August, 2019 issued by A.K. Global has been exhibited as Exhibit PW
 1/38. The invoice and invoice-cum-packing list of shipment of
 'SURGICEL' products from New Delhi dated 19th August, 2019 signed by
 the defendant no.1 has been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/39 (colly). 17. Subsequent examination of the counterfeit surgical devices revealed
 that they were inadequately oxidized, non-sterile, and contaminated with
 bacterial infection. Additionally, it was found that certain 'SURGICEL'
 branded products supplied by AK Global, while being original, were expired
 and had been repackaged in counterfeit packaging bearing the 'SURGICEL'
 trade mark with a falsified expiration date. 18. In view of the aforementioned facts and circumstances, the plaintiff
 filed a Second Amended Complaint before the United States District Court,
 Middle District of Florida, wherein Pure Care, Mr. Ali Hussain, AK Global, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 7 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 Mr. Ashraf Abukhalaf, and Mr. Pritamdas Arora were also impleaded. The
 Second Amended Complaint has been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/49.
 Simultaneously, the plaintiff instituted the present suit before this Court in
 2019. CASE SETUP IN THE WRITTEN STATEMENT 19. Defendant no.1 [Mr. Pritamdas Arora] is the sole proprietor of M/s
 Medserve, a business engaged in import, export and wholesale trade of
 medical devices and pharmaceutical products, including those manufactured
 by Ethicon. 20. Defendant no. 2 [Ms. Ritika Arora] is the wife of defendant no.1 who
 is alleged to be associated with the business of defendant no.1. However, in
 the written statement, it is contended that defendant no.2 is a home-maker
 and does not have any relation with the facts of the present case. Further, the
 defendant no.2 does not participate in the day-to-day activities of the
 business run by the defendant no.1. 21. The defendants undertook to comply with the reliefs claimed in prayer
 clauses A (i) and (ii), which pertain to the relief of permanent injunction
 seeking to restrain the defendants from using the marks 'SURGICEL',
 'SURGICEL ORGINAL', 'SURGICEL FIBRILLAR', 'SURGICEL
 SNoW', 'SURGICEL NU-KNIT' and other 'SURGICEL' formative marks,
 'LIGACLIP', 'ETHICON' and 'ETHICON' formative marks. 22. As for the reliefs claimed in prayer clauses B (i) to (viii) pertaining to
 recall, delivery, and disclosure of the finished and unfinished impugned
 products, and trade marks, it is stated that the defendants do not have
 anything in their possession and therefore, there is nothing to be recalled,
 delivered or disclosed. 23. As for the relief regarding takedown of websites, the defendants claim
 that they have already taken down the website. PROCEEDINGS IN THE SUIT 24. The matter came up for the first time before this court on 11th
 October, 2019, wherein the court passed an ad-interim injunction in favour
 of the plaintiff restraining the defendant no.1 from dealing in any manner
 whatsoever with any goods/devices/medicines under the name/mark
 'SURGICEL' and/or 'ETHICON' and from using 'SURGICEL' and/or
 'ETHICON' as a trade mark. Further, the court appointed two Local
 Commissioners to visit the premises of the defendants to search, seal and
 seize the infringing products. 25. On 12th October, 2019, two more Local Commissioners were
 appointed to visit the place of the unknown defendants identified by the
 plaintiff. 26. Subsequently, on 14th October, 2019, the plaintiff executed the
 commission on the defendants' premises and seized documents. 27. On 5th November, 2019, the Predecessor Bench allowed the
 application for impleadment of the defendant no.2 in the present suit and the
 interim order passed on 11th October, 2019 was extended to defendant no.2 28. On 21st November, 2019, this Court permitted the de-sealing and
 examination of the sealed goods, documents, materials, and hard drives
 containing data from the electronic devices seized during the Local
 Commission proceedings, and for the said purpose a technical expert
 (hereinafter the 'IT expert') was appointed as a local commissioner. Further,
 it was directed that, as mutually agreed by the counsel for the defendants,
 the copies/images so prepared by the technical expert would be admissible Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 9 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 in evidence without the requirement of any proof. 29. On 14th January, 2020, the application for interim injunction was
 disposed of and the orders dated 11th October, 2019, 12th October, 2019 and
 21st November, 2019 were made absolute. 30. On 25th February, 2021, the amendment application of the plaintiff to
 incorporate violation of the plaintiff's trade mark 'LIGACLIP' was allowed
 and the amended plaint was taken on record. 31. On 6th January, 2022, the Local Commissioner filed its report with the
 documents before this Court. 32. On 10th March, 2021, this Court issued notice in the application filed
 on behalf of the plaintiff seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against
 the defendants for violation of orders passed by this court. 33. On 13th April, 2022, the Court directed the defendants to remain
 present in the court on the next date of hearing. 34. Since the defendants were not responding to their counsel and were
 not present in court on 27th April, 2022, the counsel for the defendants
 sought discharge of his vakalatnama and the matter was adjourned to 28th
 April, 2022. 35. On 28th April, 2022, the Court allowed the application of the counsel
 for the plaintiff seeking discharge of his vakalatnama. Vide the same order
 bailable warrants were issued for production of defendant no.1 [Mr. Pritam
 Das Arora]. 36. Owing to non-appearance of the defendant no.1 and the inability of
 the concerned Station House Officer ('SHO') to trace the said defendant,
 this Court vide order dated 23rd May, 2022, issued non-bailable warrants
 against defendant no.1 and the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police was directed Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 10 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 to investigate into the contact numbers and email addresses of defendant
 no.1 and, try and locate the defendant no.1 through them. 37. Since the defendants were still not traceable, this Court, vide order
 dated 6th December, 2022, directed that the defendants be proceeded against
 ex-parte. 38. On 6th April, 2023, the plaintiff filed the affidavit of evidence of its
 witness Mr. Ameya Joshi [PW1]. 39. On 18th May, 2023, the Joint Registrar recorded the statement of the
 plaintiff's witness Mr. Ameya Joshi. The affidavit of evidence of PW1 was
 exhibited as Ex. PW-1/A. Since no cross-examination was carried out on
 behalf of the defendants, the recording of the plaintiff's ex-parte evidence
 was completed on the said date and exhibits were marked. 40. On 22nd November, 2023, this Court, upon the conclusion of the
 plaintiff's ex-parte evidence, directed the Delhi Police, Bureau of
 Immigration, Ministry of Home Affairs ('MHA'), Unique Identification
 Authority of India ('UIDAI'), Goods and Services Tax Department ('GST
 Department'), and Income Tax Department to file status reports regarding
 the whereabouts, activities, and current status of the defendants. 41. On 5th April, 2024, this Court directed UIDAI to disclose the mobile
 numbers linked to the defendants' Aadhaar numbers by submitting the
 details in a sealed cover. Further, the Court directed the plaintiff to approach
 the Delhi Police and Cyber Cell, after receiving this information, to seek the
 reopening of the investigation by providing the relevant details furnished by
 UIDAI. 42. On 16th July, 2024, this Court directed the Delhi Police and Cyber
 Cell to take necessary action based on the information submitted by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 11 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 plaintiff and to file a fresh status report. 43. On 4th February, 2025, the Delhi Police filed its status report and
 informed the Court that, despite their efforts, they were unable to ascertain
 the whereabouts of the defendants. 44. On 7th February, 2025, the arguments were heard and the judgment
 was reserved in the present case. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF PLAINTIFF 45. Ms. Nancy Roy, Advocate appearing on behalf of the plaintiff has
 made the following submissions: Along with the abovementioned goods, the electronic devices were also
 seized by the Local Commissioner. 49.1. It is noted in the Local Commissioner's Report that during the
 execution of the Commission, a courier was delivered at the house of the
 defendants. Upon examination of said package, it was found that it
 contained the counterfeit versions of the plaintiff's products.
 49.2. Copies of the physical documents seized from the premises no.1 have
 been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/65. REPORT OF LOCAL COMMISSIONER APPOINTED FOR PREMISES NO.2 50. On the said premises, the Local Commissioner met the defendant no.1
 and his employee Mr. Upkar Singh. On searching the premises of the
 defendants, a large number of original and photocopied documents were
 found relating to the sale, purchase, import, export, etc. of various medical
 devices, including the counterfeit goods. Along with the said documents,
 other documents such as copies of identity cards, bank accounts statements,
 deeds, diaries, notepads, bill books in the name of M/s Medserve were also
 found. Further, medical devices bearing the 'ETHICON' and 'SURGICEL'
 marks were also recovered from the defendants' premises. Among the
 electronics, certain email addresses, mobile phones and hard drives were Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 14 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 found from the said premises. 51. Copies of the physical documents seized from the premises no.2 have
 been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/66. REPORT OF LOCAL COMMISSIONER APPOINTED FOR PREMISES NO.3 52. The premises on which the Commission was executed was of one Mr.
 Rajeev Khattar, who stated himself to be the authorized agent of the plaintiff
 company. A comprehensive search was conducted of the entire shop
 premises. However, no physical products bearing the trade marks
 'ETHICON' and 'SURGICEL' were recovered by the Local Commissioner
 from the said location. It is stated that upon searching the desktop computer
 located on the premises, as well as the office email account, copies of
 product lists dated 19th August 2019 were recovered which referenced
 'ETHICON' and 'SURGICEL' products. 52.1. Upon complete confirmation that Mr. Rajeev Khattar was a validly
 authorized agent of the plaintiff, the local commissioner deemed it
 unnecessary to prepare an inventory list. Instead, the Local Commissioner
 decided to take certain samples, returnable on the responsibility of the
 plaintiff's counsel, of the products bearing the marks 'ETHICON' and
 'SURGICEL' for the purpose of authentication by the plaintiff.
 REPORT OF LOCAL COMMISSIONER APPOINTED FOR PREMISES NO. 4 53. On the said premises, the Local Commissioner met Mr. Ankit
 Chhabra who stated that none of the products at the said premises were
 counterfeits and the products bearing the marks 'ETHICON' and
 'SURGICEL' were introduced to him by 'Mr. Rajesh Jha', i.e., the sales
 representative of the plaintiff company. 53.1. In light of the above findings, rather than seizing the products bearing Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 15 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 'ETHICON' and 'SURGICEL' marks, an undertaking of Mr. Ankit Chhabra
 was recorded that sale of the impugned products would be restricted until
 their authenticity was established. The Local Commissioner inventorised the
 products and made copies of invoices from suppliers. Along with preparing
 an inventory, one sample of each product was seized, sealed, and handed
 over to the plaintiff's counsel for verification. Additionally, a backup of the
 shop's accounting software was made and transferred to a sealed hard drive
 by the technical expert accompanying the Local Commissioner.
 REPORT OF LOCAL COMMISSIONER FILED BY MS. MATT SLONE 54. On 21st November, 2019, this court appointed IT expert United Lex,
 Gurgaon, for de-sealing and examination of the sealed goods, documents,
 material and hard drives containing the data of the electronic devices,
 including mobile phones, laptops, seized by the Local Commissioners. The
 commission was executed and a report in respect of the same has been filed
 on behalf of Local Commissioner. 55. Between 27th November, 2019, and June 2020, the Local
 Commissioner assisted the plaintiff's and defendant's counsel in collection
 and segregation of electronic documents related to the manufacture, sale, or
 distribution of counterfeit 'SURGICEL' and 'ETHICON' branded products.
 55.1. In the report it is stated that the Local Commissioner facilitated access
 to the defendants' identified email accounts linked to counterfeit activities
 and assisted the plaintiff in reviewing and segregating the relevant material.
 55.2. The relevant material was processed and compact discs ('CD')
 containing copies of all relevant data were prepared by the Local
 Commissioner for the Court, the defendants' counsel, and the plaintiff's
 counsel. A physical set of documents, excluding audio and video files, has Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 16 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 been filed before the Court. The CDs include documents filed with the Local
 Commissioner's report, audio files from defendants' mobile phones,
 WhatsApp and WeChat data, and other multimedia attachments.
 55.3. Copies of the electronic documents extracted from the defendant
 no.1's devices Apple iPhone 6 Plus, Apple Mac Book Pro, Samsung
 SMN960F and HP Laptop (seized by the Local Commissioner) have been
 exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/67, Exhibit PW 1/68, Exhibit PW 1/69 and
 Exhibit PW 1/70 respectively. Copies of the defendant no.1's chats on
 WECHAT App along with attachments at Pg 5884-6514 of the Local
 Commissioner's Report have been exhibited as Exhibit PW l/71.
 55.4. Copies of the emails extracted from the defendant no.1's email ids [email protected] , [email protected] , and [email protected] have been exhibited as Exhibit PW l/72, Exhibit
 PW l/73, and Exhibit PW l/74. 55.5. Copies of the emails extracted from the defendant no.2's email id: Accordingly, the report submitted by the Local Commissioner, along with
 its contents, are admissible as evidence as the same was unchallenged and
 consented to by the defendants. 57. Now I shall examine the material found by the Local Commissioners. 58. On examination of the shipping records and invoices obtained during
 the raid, it is apparent that the defendants had established a network through
 which counterfeit goods were distributed to the international markets, and
 the defendants had sold approximately 250,000 counterfeit medical devices
 between 2017 and 2019 to at least nine different countries. Further, the
 shipping record reveals that the defendant no.1 had fabricated false
 authorization letters purportedly from the plaintiff's subsidiary companies,
 forging signatures of their authorized representatives through his employee,
 Mr. Upkar Singh, in an attempt to mislead clients to make them believe that
 the defendants have a connection with the plaintiff.
 58.1 Copies of the transcript of the WhatsApp conversation between the
 defendant no.1 and Mr. Upkar Singh have been exhibited as Exhibit 1/90 1 2023 SCC OnLine Del 7466 2 2023 SCC online Del 6764 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 18 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 and documents extracted from the electronic devices of Mr. Upkar Singh
 have been exhibited as Exhibit 1/91. 59. While conducting the search of the premises no.1, the Local
 Commissioner also recovered a counterfeit seal/stamp bearing the plaintiff's
 house mark "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" from the defendants' possession
 and the same was seized by the Local Commissioner. Further, the data
 retrieved from the electronic devices of the defendants indicates that
 defendant no.1 was in possession of a guide detailing the differences
 between genuine and counterfeit 'ETHICON' products. 60. The defendant no.1 had engaged third-party manufacturers, namely
 Altaylar Medical (Turkey), Hangzhou Tao Imp & Exp Co. Ltd., and
 Yueping Wu, since 2012, to produce counterfeit 'SURGICEL' branded
 products. The WhatsApp conversations and email correspondences show
 that defendant no.1 had provided detailed instructions on how the defendants
 were replicating the plaintiff's products, including specifications for
 branding and packaging. These unbranded surgical devices were
 subsequently repackaged by the defendants in a counterfeit, non-sterile, and
 contaminated trade dress bearing the plaintiff's trade marks and distributed
 internationally. 60.1 Copies of the WhatsApp transcript between the defendant no.1 and
 Altaylar Medical have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/75 (colly) and
 copies of the WhatsApp transcript between the defendant no.1 and Mr.
 Lovedeep Singh of Hangzhou Tao Imp & Exp Co. Ltd. have been exhibited
 as Exhibit PW 1/86. 61. The WhatsApp conversations of the defendant no.1 reveal that the
 defendants were also involved in re-packaging, the expired medical products Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 19 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 by affixing counterfeit labels with falsified future expiry dates. The said
 exercise was carried out by one Mr. Upkar Singh, who is an employee of the
 defendant no.1 and was working under his guidance. The defendant no.1
 actively sought expired medical products from suppliers, inquiring whether
 expired goods were available for purchase and resale. (Please refer: Exhibit
 1/90). 62. In one of the WhatsApp correspondence between defendant no.1 and
 his employee, Mr. Upkar Singh, the defendant no.1 had provided explicit
 instructions to one Mr. Mudassar Shah, employee of the US based company,
 eSutures, which partnered with the defendants to supply the expired
 'SURGICEL' products in India, as to which expiry dates would work and
 how the expiry products are to be invoiced. At the request of defendant no.1,
 the representative at eSutures furnished details of the expiration dates of the
 products being offered, a significant number of which had been expired for
 over a decade. Subsequently, defendant no.1 responded to the eSutures
 representative via a voice message, stating: 63. Further, defendant no.1 sent a separate voice message to Mr.
 Mudassar Shah, instructing him on the manner in which the expired
 products should be dispatched. Defendant no.1 directed: 63.1 Copies of the transcript of the WhatsApp conversation between the
 defendant no.1 and Mr. Mudassar Shah have been exhibited as Exhibit PW
 1/88. Copies of the transcript of the WhatsApp conversation between the
 defendant no.1, Mr. Mudassar Shah and Mr. Jason of eSutures, and certified
 English translations thereof filed along with the Local Commissioner's
 Report have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/89 (colly). 64. The email correspondences and WhatsApp conversations retrieved
 from the devices of the defendant no.1 further establish that the defendant
 no.1 received multiple complaints from his clients regarding the visibly
 counterfeit nature of both the packaging and the products supplied by him.
 For instance, in 2019, Mr. Bob Chen, a client of the defendants, informed
 the defendant no.1 that his company had received a formal complaint from a
 hospital regarding products bearing the marks 'SURGICEL'. The hospital
 reported that the use of these products had resulted in a head infection,
 prompting them to send the items for laboratory testing. Upon being
 confronted by Mr. Bob Chen regarding the authenticity of the 'SURGICEL'
 branded products and whether they had been legitimately sourced from the
 plaintiff, the defendant no.1, instead of providing clarification or verifying
 their origin, instructed Mr. Bob Chen to first resolve the issue by bribing the
 concerned individuals. 64.1 Copies of the transcript of the WhatsApp conversation between the
 defendant no.1 and Mr. Bob Chen have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/92. 65. Upon receiving the aforementioned complaint, the defendant no.1 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 21 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 inquired from his wife, i.e., the defendant no.2, whether the infection could
 have resulted from the handling and packaging practices of his staff in
 relation to the counterfeit products. In response, defendant no.2 dismissed
 this possibility, stating that contamination was unlikely as all staff members
 washed their hands with sanitizer. 65.1 Copies of the transcript of the WhatsApp conversation between the
 defendant no.1 and defendant no.2 have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/93
 (colly). 66. The defendant no.1 has made explicit admissions to multiple clients
 that he engages in the trade of duplicate or counterfeit medical products
 bearing the plaintiff's trade marks 'SURGICEL', 'LIGACLIP', and
 'ETHICON'. Further, the defendants have admitted that the counterfeit
 'LIGACLIP' products were manufactured in China and subsequently
 packaged in India by the defendants. 66.1 Copies of the WhatsApp transcript between the defendant no.1 and
 Mr. Ali Hussain, partner of Pure Care Traders filed along with the Local
 Commissioner report have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/94 (colly). 67. A review of the data seized during the raid, inter alia, reveals that for
 the purposes of money laundering and tax evasion, the defendant no.1
 expressly informed his clients that he could not accept payments in his
 Indian bank accounts. The financial records obtained during the proceedings
 revealed that defendant no.1 operated at least thirteen foreign bank accounts,
 wherein substantial sums were deposited by international clients in exchange
 for counterfeit products. The documents on record indicate that transactions
 exceeding at least USD 1 million were made in 2019 alone by the
 defendants. 67.1 Printout of the list of foreign companies and/or third parties along
 with the corresponding bank details, in whose accounts the defendants have
 received payments for supply/ sale of products under the plaintiff's marks
 have been exhibited as Exhibit PW 1/100. 68. During the execution of the Local Commission at premises no.1, a
 consignment containing 10,000 counterfeit products arrived at the residential
 premises of the defendants, which was also seized by the Local
 Commissioner. Further, Rs.16 Lakhs in cash was recovered from the
 defendants' premises no.1 and the same has been duly recorded by the
 Local Commissioner in its report. 69. Further, evidence suggests that defendant no.1 has been engaged in
 Hawala transactions for laundering illicit proceeds. Copies of the WhatsApp
 transcripts of the defendant no. 1 with his hawala brokers, Mr. Rajiv Gmbr
 and Mr. Buntysrdji, regarding payments made through hawala, along with
 all attachments and certified English translations have been exhibited as
 Exhibit PW 1/99. The WhatsApp conversations confirm that the defendant
 no.1 received over Rs.50 Lakhs through Hawala transactions between
 August and October 2019, immediately preceding the filing of the present
 suit. (Please refer: Exhibit PW 1/94) 70. The Court takes serious note of an intercepted conversation where
 defendant no.1, upon receiving complaints about infected counterfeit
 surgical products, advised his business associate to resolve the matter
 through bribery rather than corrective action. Such conduct demonstrates
 blatant disregard for public health and safety. 71. The defendants, in their written statement, have denied all the
 averments made against them. The defendants have not only denied any Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 23 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 involvement in the alleged illegal transactions but also claimed to have no
 knowledge of the same. Despite the evidence on record, the defendant no.1
 has victimised himself and claimed that the present suit has been filed to
 target the defendants. 72. With respect to the involvement of defendant no.2 in the
 counterfeiting activities, it has been stated that defendant no.2 acted
 unknowingly and without intent to infringe the plaintiff's trade marks or
 counterfeit its products. Furthermore, it is asserted that any actions
 undertaken by defendant no.2 were carried out under the instructions of her
 husband, defendant no.1. 73. However, the evidence on record shows that the defendant no.2 was
 actively involved with the defendant no.1 in counterfeiting the goods of the
 plaintiff. Not only did the defendant no.2 have complete knowledge about
 the counterfeiting business of defendant no.1, but also she was actively
 participating in the complicit activities. Further, the material extracted from
 her email and electronics clearly shows that the defendant no.2 was giving
 directions to Mr. Upkar Singh, to print and/or make copies of counterfeit
 stickers/labels for use in repackaging of counterfeit products under the trade
 marks 'SURGICEL' and other 'ETHICON' formative trade marks. (Please
 refer: Exhibit PW 1/111). Moreover, the participation of the defendant no.2
 can be further evidenced from the fact that numerous shipment receipts were
 found by the Local Commissioner during the execution of the commission,
 which were signed by the defendant no.2. 74. The conduct of the defendants before the court had also been
 malicious as the defendants have repeatedly failed to make full and honest
 disclosures about their bank accounts despite multiple court orders. Defendant no.1 initially withheld details of various bank accounts and assets
 in his affidavit. Even after being directed to submit a second affidavit, he
 only partially complied with the order and failed to disclose the IndusInd
 Bank account, details of which were recovered during the execution of the
 commission. Further evidence from seized documents and the Local
 Commissioner's Report highlights extensive undisclosed financial dealings,
 including large-scale shipments and monetary transactions running in crores. 75. It is also to be noted that the defendants chose to stop appearing
 before this Court and evade the present proceedings. The Predecessor
 Bench, vide orders dated 22nd November 2023 and 16th July 2024, directed
 multiple government entities (Delhi Police, Bureau of immigration/MHA,
 UIDAI, GST department, Income Tax department, Cyber Cell (New Delhi
 District), Office of the Dy. Commissioner of Police etc.) to track the
 defendants and file a status report. However, despite their efforts, the
 defendants remained untraceable. The aforesaid conduct of the defendants
 makes it clear that the defendants do not have anything to put forth on merits
 and have absconded. Even in the Amended Written Statement, the
 defendants have made bare denials and vague averments against the plaintiff
 without giving any plausible explanation for their flagrant counterfeiting
 activities. The defendants have also denied the plaintiff's submissions which
 are based on the documents filed with the Local Commissioner's Report and
 failed to set up any valid defence. 76. On perusal of the electronic data and physical documents seized by
 the Local Commissioner, it is clear that the defendants were engaged in the
 counterfeiting of surgical devices and medical products under the plaintiff's
 registered trade marks, including but not limited to 'SURGICEL', Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 25 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 'ETHICON', and 'LIGACLIP'. The evidence placed before this Court
 without a doubt establishes that the defendants have engaged in
 counterfeiting, misrepresentation, and fraudulent activities in blatant
 violation of the plaintiff's rights. The conduct of the defendants poses a
 severe risk to public health and safety, as the counterfeit medical products
 distributed by them lack the necessary sterility and quality standards as
 required in the surgical use. Further, the guide, found at the defendant's
 premises, for differentiating genuine and counterfeits of the plaintiff's
 products clearly demonstrates a premeditated intent to deceive consumers
 and medical professionals. The deliberate falsification of expiry dates on
 medical devices further exacerbates the gravity of their actions. 77. It is a settled principle of law that while awarding damages, the court
 has to adopt a stringent approach in awarding damages where the
 infringement is deliberate and mala-fide. In Koninlijke Philips N.V. & Anr.
 v. Amazestore & Ors3 , a Coordinate Bench of this Court outlined principles
 for awarding proportionate damages on the basis of degree of mala-fide
 conduct. The relevant observations of the coordinate bench are extracted
 below: Plaintiff (v) Infringement which was Injunction + Costs +
 deliberate and calculated Aggravated damages
 (Gangster/scam/mafia) + wilful (Compensatory +
 contempt of court. additional damages) 41. It is clarified that the above chart is illustrative and is not to be read
 as a statutory provision. The Courts are free to deviate from the same for
 good reason." [Emphasis is mine] 78. In Cartier International A.G. v. Gaurav Bhatia4 , while granting the
 damages in case where defendants were selling counterfeit watches and did
 not appear to contest the suit filed by the plaintiff, a Coordinate Bench of
 this Court has observed that the defendant who deliberately avoids court
 proceedings should not be allowed to benefit from such evasion as that
 would be unfair to a defendant who submits account records and is held
 liable for damages, while one who evades proceedings escapes liability due
 to the absence of financial records. The relevant extract is given below: [Emphasis is mine] 79. The aforesaid principles would be squarely applicable in the present
 case. In the present case, the defendants have deliberately sold counterfeit
 medical products. In the tests conducted by the plaintiff, it has been found
 that the counterfeit products of the defendants failed to meet the necessary
 oxidation levels required for proper absorption in the body and the use of
 such substandard medical devices during surgery could result in severe
 complications, including infections, foreign body reactions, and surgical
 adhesions. This is substantiated by the chats exhibited in Exhibit PW 1/92
 as discussed above, where several complaints were received by the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 28 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 defendants for their counterfeit products. 80. In my view, the counterfeit medical products sold by the defendants
 pose a significant threat to public health. Counterfeiting of medical devices
 is not merely a case of trade mark infringement, it is a grave offence that
 endangers the lives of people. The defendants' conduct demonstrates a
 deliberate effort to mislead the public, jeopardize the consumer safety and
 exploit consumer trust for financial gain. 81. The defendants' deliberate and fraudulent acts have also caused
 irreparable harm to the plaintiff's goodwill and market reputation. By selling
 substandard counterfeit products under the plaintiff's trade marks, the
 defendants have misled consumers and associated the plaintiff's name with
 the counterfeit goods. 82. The evidence presented before the Court, including invoices, bank
 receipts, and chat extracts, establishes without a doubt that defendant no. 1
 has received substantial financial gains in the course of carrying out the
 infringing and counterfeiting activities. These transactions, as detailed in the
 Local Commissioners' Report, and invoices found at the premises,
 demonstrate a clear pattern of profiting commercially, by selling
 counterfeits, at the expense of the plaintiff. In view of the compelling
 evidence on record and the blatant disregard for the Court's orders, the
 conduct of the defendants in the present case necessitates and warrants
 imposition of compensatory as well as exemplary damages in favour of the
 plaintiff and against the defendants. 83. The plaintiff has led evidence and in the affidavit of Mr. Ameya Joshi
 [PW1] it is averred that on the basis of invoices, bank receipts recovered,
 the defendants have sold the counterfeit goods amounting to approximately Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 29 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 ₹9,39,31,946/-. The averments made in the aforesaid affidavit remain
 unrebutted. The relevant extract from the affidavit of Mr. Ameya Joshi
 [PW1] is set out below: [Emphasis is mine] 84. In Hindustan Unilever Limited v. Reckitt Benckiser India Limited5 ,
 a Division Bench of this Court, outlined the principle of 'rough and ready 5 ILR (2014) 2 Del 1288 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 30 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 calculations' for awarding damages. In Koninlijke Philips (supra), relying
 on the judgment passed by the Division Bench of this Court in Hindustan
 Unilever (supra), a Coordinate Bench of this Court granted damages
 assuming the profit margin of 20% of the defendants. 85. I am convinced with the evidence presented and submissions made by
 the counsel for plaintiff and conclude that a conservative profit margin of
 25% can be assumed for awarding actual damages in favour of the plaintiff
 and against the defendants in the present case. Therefore, in the present case,
 the plaintiff is entitled to an award of compensatory damages to the extent of
 25% of ₹9,39,31,946/- i.e., the sales figures given by the plaintiff in the
 evidence affidavit of Mr. Ameya Joshi [PW1]. Accordingly, the plaintiff is
 entitled to compensatory damages of ₹2,34,82,986/-. 86. With regard to the exemplary damages, a reference may be made to Hindustan Unilever (supra) wherein the Division Bench of this Court has
 affirmed the principles governing grant of exemplary damages as laid down
 by the House of Lords in Rookes v. Barnard6, and Cassell & Co Ltd v
 Broome7. In Rookes (supra), the House of Lords identified three categories
 of cases in which exemplary damages may be awarded: [1964] 1 All E. R. 367 7 [1992] AC 1027 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 31 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 86.1 In Cassell (supra), the House of Lords has held that the exemplary
 damages awarded by courts are not merely to compensate the claimant but
 to punish the defendant for its misconduct and to deter similar conduct in the
 future. 86.2 Following the aforesaid principles, the Division Bench in Hindustan
 Unilever (supra), held that the exemplary damages must follow general
 damages. The relevant extract is reproduced below: Ghaziabad Development Authority v. Balbir Singh , (2004) 5 SCC 6; Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta , 1994 SCC (1) 243). As
 yet, however, the Supreme Court has not indicated the standards which
 are to be applied while awarding punitive or exemplary damages. In
 libel, tortuous claims with economic overtones such as slander of goods,
 or in respect of intellectual property matters. The peculiarities of such
 cases would be the courts' need to evolve proper standards to ensure
 proportionality in the award of such exemplary or punitive damages. The
 caution in Cassel that "[d]amages remain a civil, not a criminal,
 remedy, even where an exemplary award is appropriate, and juries
 should not be encouraged to lose sight of the fact that in making such
 an award they are putting money into a plaintiff's pocket...." can never
 be lost sight of. Furthermore - and perhaps most crucially -the
 punitive element of the damages should follow the damages assessed
 otherwise (or general) damages; exemplary damages can be awarded
 only if the Court is "satisfied that the punitive or exemplary element is
 not sufficiently met within the figure which they have arrived at for the
 plaintiff's solatium". In other words, punitive damages should
 invariably follow the award of general damages (by that the Court
 meant that it could be an element in the determination of damages, or a
 separate head altogether, but never completely without determination
 of general damages)." [Emphasis is mine] 87. Following the aforesaid principles, a Coordinate Bench of this Court Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 32 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 in Whatman International Ltd. v. P. Mehta8 , awarded exemplary damages
 amounting to Rs.1.85 Crores in favour of the plaintiff and against multiple
 defendants in a suit relating to counterfeit products. While awarding
 exemplary damages, the Court took note of the fact that the conduct of the
 defendants was dishonest, as they had made false, incorrect, and misleading
 statements both in their pleadings and in their statements before the Court.
 Further, the defendants were habitual infringers and were engaged in selling
 counterfeit products since 1992. 88. In the present case, the defendants, through their conduct, have caused
 immense harm to the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff. The
 defendants' actions constitute a deliberate, conscious, and wilful
 infringement of the plaintiff's rights. By selling counterfeit medical
 products, the defendants have not only inflicted substantial financial loss
 upon the plaintiff but have also misled the consumers who purchased these
 products under the false belief that they were genuine. Given the gravity of
 the infringement and the extent of harm caused, compensatory damages
 alone would be inadequate to compensate the plaintiff. Thus, applying the
 principles of Rookes (supra), as affirmed by the Division Bench in Hindustan Unilever (supra), the present case is a fit case for awarding
 exemplary damages. Accordingly, exemplary damages amounting to
 ₹.1,00,00,000/- are awarded in favour of the plaintiff and against the
 defendants. 89. In Uflex Limited v. Government of Tamil Nadu and Ors,9 the
 Supreme Court has laid down the principles for determining the costs in 8 2019 SCC OnLine Del 6856 9 (2022) 1 SCC 165 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 33 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 commercial matters. The relevant observations of the Supreme Court are set
 out below: [Emphasis is mine] 90. The present suit was filed in October 2019, and involved multiple
 hearings wherein counsel appeared on behalf of the plaintiff. Additionally,
 Local Commissioners were appointed to visit the premises of the defendants.
 Further, IT experts were also appointed to extract the data from the
 electronic devices retrieved by the Local Commissioners from the
 defendants' premises. Taking into account the aforesaid position, I am of
 the view that in the present facts and circumstances, the plaintiff is entitled
 to recover actual costs from the defendants. RELIEF 91. In view of the foregoing analysis, a decree of permanent injunction is
 passed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants no. 1 and 2 in
 terms of prayer clauses A (i) to (iii) of the plaint. 92. In respect of relief claimed in prayer clause B (ii), the plaintiff is
 permitted to destroy the counterfeit products seized by the Local
 Commissioners during the execution of the commission and currently in the
 possession of the plaintiff. 93. The plaintiff is entitled to a decree of damages in terms of prayer
 clause C of the plaint against the defendants jointly and severally. The
 damages are awarded in the following manner: 94. As for the relief of costs prayed for in prayer clause D of the plaint,
 the plaintiff shall file its bill of costs in terms of Rule 5 of Chapter XXIII of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 35 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08 the Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018 within four weeks. For
 this purpose, the representatives of the plaintiff shall appear before the Joint
 Registrar, who shall determine the actual costs incurred by the plaintiff in
 the present litigation. 95. Counsel for the plaintiff does not press for the remaining reliefs
 claimed in the suit. 96. Plaintiff shall pay the additional court fees on the differential amount
 awarded in favour of plaintiff within four (4) weeks. 97. Let the decree sheet be drawn up. 98. All pending applications stand disposed of. AMIT BANSAL
 (JUDGE)

 MARCH 11,2025
 kd Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CS(COMM) 570/2019 Page 36 of 36 By:KOMAL DHAWAN Signing Date:11.03.2025 16:16:08