आयकर अपील य अ धकरण "एक-सद य मामला" यायपीठ मुंबई म। IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL "SMC" BENCH, MUMBAI

 ी शमीम याहया, लेखा सद य के सम । This appeal by the assessee is directed against order of ld. Commissioner of

Income Tax (Appeals) dated 20.01.2017 and pertains to assessment year 2008-09. 2. The grounds of appeal read as under: Apropos ground challenging reopening 3. Brief facts of the case are that in this case, return of income was filed on 30th

March 2009 declaring total income at Rs.2,71,805/-. The same was processed under

section 143(1). Subsequently information was received by the Assessing Officer from

o/of DG1T(C&IB), New Delhi that assessee has taken accommodation entry from

M/s. Magasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd. (a company in the Mahasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd. group share scam case) of Rs.10,32,289/-. Accordingly, notice u/s. 148 of the Act was

issued on 28th March 2014 after duly recording the reason for the same. Subsequently

the assessment was completed u/s. 147 r.w.s. 143(3) of the Act after making an

addition of Rs.10,39,289/- on account of bogus share transactions and Rs.20,786/- being commission paid to the broker for arranging accommodation entries in the form

of share transactions. 4. On the assessee's appeal against the reopening, the ld. Commissioner of

Income Tax (Appeals) dismissed the same by holding as under: The information received by the AO was certainly in the nature which provided
reason to have reasonable belief that there has been a concealment of income
and concealment of material facts on part of the assessee. Once such reason to
believe is formed by the AO, he is well within his powers to issue notice u/s
148 as per procedure laid down in the Act. It was held in the case of S.
Narayanappa v. CIT (1967) 63 ITR 219(5C) that there should be facts before
the ITO that reasonably give rise to a belief that what is held by him must of
course be in good faith. It cannot be a mere pretence, but the facts on the basis
of which he entertained the belief need not at this stage be irrefutably
conclusive to support his tentative conclusion where such an inference can be
drawn sufficiency of reasons cannot questioned at the preliminary stage. 4.3 The aforesaid facts regarding involvement in securing accommodation
entries with an intention to reduce taxable income was a tangible material,
which gave rise to belief that the income of the appellant has escapes
assessment. What is important at the time of formation of belief by the ld. AO
regarding this escapement or underassessment of income is sufficiency of the
reasons for reopening of assessment and not its accuracy that cannot be
questioned at that time. In the case of Praful Chunilal v. ACT (1988) 148 CTR
62 it was held that if the AO honestly comes to the conclusion that a mistake
has been made, it matters nothing so far as his jurisdiction to initiate the
proceedings u/s 147 is concerned. 4.4 Receipt of afore-stated information from the DGIT(C&IB), New Delhi
in my considered view is fresh and tangible material which has live link and
nexus with the formation of belief that the income of the assessee has escaped
assessment, and keeping in view that the original assessment was not framed
u/s 143(3) of the Act and no opinion was ever formed by the ld. AO and hence, 4 ITA No. 2003/Mum/2017 (A.Y. 2008-09) Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO there is no change of opinion, and also keeping in view the ratio of decision of
 Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of ACIT v. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers
 Private Limited (2007) 291 ITR 500 (SC), reopening of the assessment is
 upheld. 5. Against the above order, the assessee is in appeal before the ITAT. 6. I have heard both the counsels and perused the records. As regards the

reopening of the issue, on a careful consideration I note that the assessment in this

case was based on information received from DGIT(Investigation) that the assessee

has taken accommodation entry from M/s. Mahasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd. (a company

in the Mahasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd. group share scam case) of Rs.10,32,289/- and,

therefore, it has indulged in non genuine and bogus capital gain from transaction of

sale and purchase of shares and predated contract notes were issued by the brokers to

manipulate and introduce long term capital gains in favour of the assessee which are

exempt from tax u/s. 10(38). This was taken to have lead to escapement of income

from taxation. From the above, it is manifest that there is tangible and cogent material

received by the Assessing Officer which clearly showed that the assessee was

beneficiary of the above manipulated accommodation entry giving rise to the bogus

long term gains. This forms the reason to believe by the Assessing Officer that income

has escaped assessment. The information so received by the Assessing Officer has

live link with reason to believe that income has escaped assessment. On this

incriminating tangible material information, assessment was reopened. At this stage

there has to be prima facie belief based on some tangible and material information 5 ITA No. 2003/Mum/2017 (A.Y. 2008-09) Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO about escapement of income and the same is not required to be proved to be hilt. In

this regard, I refer to the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of CIT(A) Vs.

Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers P. Ltd , 291 ITR 500:- 7. The above discussion and precedent from Apex Court fully justify the validity

of reopening in this case. Further I find that the Ld. CIT(A) has carefully examined

the issue and has properly appreciated the issue. Hence, I do not find any infirmity in

the same. Accordingly, I uphold the order of the Ld. CIT(A) on the issue of

reopening. Since, the issue has been decided on the basis of the Hon'ble Apex Court

decision, the other case laws referred by assessee are not supporting the assessee's

case. Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO

Apropos ground relating to merits of addition 8. Brief facts of the issue as per Assessing Officer's order reads as under: Taking into account the above facts, it is evident that the transactions
 shown by the assessee through M/s Mahasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd are nothing
 but colorable device using forged and fabricated bills / contract note for the
 purpose of evasion of tax. Accordingly I strongly hold that assessee has entered
 into bogus shares transactions lo the tune of Rs.10,39,289/- and the same is
 brought to tax by adding the equivalent amount to the total income of the
 assessee. Penalty proceedings under section 271(l)(c) are initiated for
 furnishing inaccurate particulars of income and thereby evading the tax
 liability. 7. Addition under section 69C on account of commission paid towards shares
 broking
 Vide para no. 6 it is well established fact brought on records that the
 assessee has entered into bogus shares transactions to the tune of
 Rs.10,39,289/- and the same is brought to tax by adding the equivalent amount
 to the total income of the assessee. For the commission paid towards such
 transactions carried by the assessee, I estimate @ 2% of Rs.10,39,289/- (bogus
 shares transactions) amounting to Rs.20,786/- as commission paid towards
 share broking is brought to tax under the provisions of 69C of the I. T. Act
 1961. 9. Upon the assessee's appeal, the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)

upheld the Assessing Officer's action. 10. He noted the factual background of the case as under: Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO 2009. On the date of search it was discovered that Shri Mukesh M. Chokshi, a
chartered accountant by profession, had floated some 36 companies from his
office at Shree Sadashiv CHS, Santacruz (E), Mumbai and all these companies
were found to be engaged in the business of issuing bogus bills for providing
short term capital gain / loss. Long term capital gain and speculation profit /
loss. The companies run by Shri Mukesh M Chokshi were receiving
commission for all these activities. These transactions are not done through the
stock exchange but the bills show them to be so and appear to be genuine
transactions done through the stock exchanges. The client gives cash against
these profit bills. The cash is deposited in the subsidiary accounts and funds are
subsequently transferred to the Bank account of the broking company issuing
the bill (i.e. Alliance Intermediaries & Network Pvt. Ltd., Mahasagar Securities
Pvt. Ltd, GoldstarFinvest Pvt. Ltd).In case of loss, cheque is received from
clients and cash is returned to them. 7.1 Apparently there has been an unexpected jump in the value of the scrip
during the short period of time. The assessee has claimed to have purchased
28000 shares of cable Corporation for Rs. 49,223/- on 1.11.2006 in a off-
market deal and has claimed to have sold those shares for Rs. 10,33,291/- on
1.2.2008 and 6,2.2008. There is no apparent reason for this astronomical
appreciation of value of the said scrip in short span of time as claimed by the
assessee. On perusal of submissions and return of income filed, the
investigation carried by the undersigned reveals that the assessee has purchased
share from Cable Corporation of India Ltd. through Mahasagar Securities Pvt.
Ltd. and Alliance Intermediateries & Network Pvt. Ltd. During the course of
assessment proceedings, it is noticed that LINK INTIME INDIA PVT. LTD. is
the registrar authority of Cable Corporation of India Ltd. An information under
section 133(6) vide letter dated 25.02.2015 is called for from LINK INTIME
INDIA PVT. LTD. regarding genuineness of transactions in scripts/commodity
held by the assessee during the FY under consideration. LINK INTIME INDIA
PVT. LTD. vide letter dated 27.02.2015 stated the assessee (shareholder) is not
holding any shares under demat account no. IN2301151/22161785 in the
above mentioned company i.e. Cable Corporation of India Ltd.). The assessee
has failed to furnish any explanation as to why the shares have been shown as
dematerialized just before the date of sale whereas he has shown the date of
purchase of shares as 1.11.2006. Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO 11. Thereafter the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) referred to several

case laws on the subject and compared the same with the facts of the case and

thereafter, he concluded as under: 12. Against the above order, the assessee is in appeal before the ITAT. 13. I have heard both the counsel and perused the records. I find that cogent and

credible information was received by the Assessing Officer that the assessee has

indulged in manipulated bogus accommodation entries in shares for showing LTCG. The information was received that such manipulated transactions was done through

companies run by Shri Mukesh Choksi. The Assessing Officer has given a finding that

the assessee has taken entries from Mahasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd. involved in the

shares scam case for Rs.10,39,289/- for bogus speculation profit during the financial

year 2007-08. The Assessing Officer has found the assessee has paid cash of

equivalent amount and received back by cheque and bogus contract notes and bills for

the transactions not actually rooted through stock exchange. The Assessing Officer 10 ITA No. 2003/Mum/2017 (A.Y. 2008-09) Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO

has also noted that these facts are established by reply by Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. vide letter dated 27.2.2015 which mentions as under: 14. On the above factual background, the Assessing Officer has held that it is clear

that the assessee through Mahasagar Securities Pvt. Ltd. has shown transactions which

are colorable devise using forged and fabricated bills and contract notes for the

purpose of evasion of tax. On these transactions, the Assessing Officer has also

estimated 2% commission and, accordingly, he has made the above said disallowance. 15. Upon the assessee's appeal, the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) has

given a finding that dealing in shares by the assessee in the above script has to be

taken as dealing in penny stock which was in the form of accommodation entries and

hence the entire sale consideration of this scrip has to be treated as unexplained cash

credit within the menaing of section 68 of the Act. 16. I find that the facts of the case indicate that the assessee has claimed to have

purchased share from Cable Corporation of India Ltd. through Mahasagar Securities

Pvt. Ltd. and Alliance Intermediateries & Network Pvt. Ltd. These intermediateries

are companies operated by Shri Mukesh Choksi and are involved in providing bogus

entries. On enquiry, the Assessing Officer has found that for the said company Cable

Corporation of India Ltd., Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. is the registered authority. The 11 ITA No. 2003/Mum/2017 (A.Y. 2008-09) Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO

Assessing Officer asked for information u/s. 133(6) of the Act vide letter dated

25.2.2015 from Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. regarding the genuineness of the

transaction. The said Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. vide letter dated 27.2.2015 stated that

the assessee (shareholder) is not holding any shares in DEMAT account in the above

mentioned company. In these factual backgrounds, the above transaction of the

assessee has been held to be bogus accommodation transaction. The above factual

scenario clearly indicates that the assessee has indulged in bogus transaction to show

his undisclosed income in the garb of long term capital gain. 17. Now the facts of the case as noted above shows that the shares of unknown

company in an off market deal has jumped manifold without any apparent reason. There is no economic and financial basis for the astronomical appreciation involved in

the short span of time. In the identical situation, the Hon'ble jurisdictional High Court

in the case of Sanjay Bimalchand Jain vs. Pr. CIT vide order dated 16.12.2017 has

held as under: The proceeds from the aforesaid sale transaction were directly credited by the
broker in the Savings Bank Account of the assessee in the Union Bank of India.
The assessing officer did not accept the case of the assessee that she was
entitled to exemption under Section 10(38) of the Income Tax Act. The
assessing officer held that the aforesaid transactions of purchase of two penny
stock shares for Rs.60,000/, the merger of the companies with a new company
and the sale of the shares for Rs.11,58,930/fell within the ambit of adventure in
the nature of trade and the assessee had profited by Rs.13,98,930/. The
assessing officer, therefore, brought the aforesaid amount to tax under the head
'business income'. (ii) Being aggrieved by the order of the assessing officer, the assessee filed an
appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals). The appeal filed by
the assessee was dismissed and so was the subsequent appeal filed by the
assessee against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)
before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. (iii) On hearing the learned counsel for the assessee and on a perusal of the
orders of the income tax authorities, it appears that there is no scope for
interference with the said orders in this appeal. By referring to the aforesaid
facts, which are narrated in the earlier part of this order, the authorities found
that the assessee had made investment in two unknown companies of which the
details were not known to her. It was held that the transaction of sale and
purchase of shares of two penny stock companies, the merger of the two
companies with another company, viz. Khoobsurat Limited did not qualify an
investment and rather it was an adventure in the nature of trade. It was held by
all the authorities that the motive of the investment made by the assessee was
not to derive income but to earn profit. Both the brokers, i.e. the broker through
whom the assessee purchased the shares and the broker through whom the
shares were sold, were located at Kolkata and the assessee did not have an
inkling as to what was going on in the whole transaction except paying a sum
of Rs.65,000/in cash for the purchase of shares of the two penny stock
companies. The authorities found that though the shares were purchased by the
assessee at Rs.5.50 Ps. Per share and Rs.4/per share from the two companies in
the year 2003, the assessee was able to sell the shares just within a years time at
Rs.486.55 Ps and Rs.485.65 Ps per share. The broker through whom the shares
were sold by the assessee did not respond to the assessing officer's letter 13 ITA No. 2003/Mum/2017 (A.Y. 2008-09) Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO seeking the names, addresses and the bank accounts of the persons that had
 purchased the shares sold by the assessee. (iv) The authorities have recorded a clear finding of fact that the assessee had
 indulged in a dubious share transaction meant to account for the undisclosed
 income in the garb of long term capital gain. While so observing, the
 authorities held that the assessee had not tendered cogent evidence to explain as
 to how the shares in an unknown company worth Rs.5/had jumped to Rs.485/in
 no time. The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal held that the fantastic sale price
 was not at all possible as there was no economic or financial basis as to how a
 share worth Rs.5/of a little known company would jump from Rs.5/to Rs.485/.
 The findings recorded by the authorities are pure findings of facts based on a
 proper appreciation of the material on record. While recording the said
 findings, the authorities have followed the tests laid down by the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court and this Court in several decisions. The findings do not give
 rise to any substantial question of law. The judgments reported in (2012) 20
 Taxman.com 529 (Bombay) (CIT Versus Jamnadevi Agrawal), (1957) 31 ITR
 294 (Bombay) (Puranmal Radhakishan Versus CIT), (1970) 77 ITR 253 (SC)
 (Raja Bahadur Versus CIT) and (2015) 235 Taxman 1 (Bom) (CIT Versus
 Smt.Datta M. Shah) and relied on by the learned counsel for the assessee are
 distinguishable on facts and cannot be applied to the case in hand. 18. From the above, I find that identical issue has been decided by the Hon'ble

jurisdictional High Court against the assessee. Furthermore, the plethora of

judgements referred by the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) in his order

also supports the case of the assessee. Accordingly, I do not find any infirmity in the

orders of the authority below. Accordingly, I uphold the same. 19. In the result, this appeal filed by the assessee stands dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 09.02.2018
 Sd/- (Shamim Yahya)
 लेखा सद य / Accountant Member
मुंबई Mumbai; दनांक Dated :09.02.2018
व. न.स./Roshani, Sr. PS 14 ITA No. 2003/Mum/2017 (A.Y. 2008-09) Ritu Sanjay Mantry vs. ITO

आदे श क त ल प अ े षत/Copy of the Order forwarded to :