(Order of the Court was delivered by N.KIRUBAKARAN, J)

 "An aura of reverence is attached to the name of Central Bureau

 of Investigation (CBI). There is always a clamour for CBI investigation." Whenever any sensitive, heinous crimes are committed and there is no proper

 investigation by the local police, there is a demand for CBI investigation and

 the said demand for CBI investigation is increasing day by day due to the

 credibility of the Central Bureau of Investigation. People revere CBI as a

 premier trust worthy agency, which could investigate the cases impartially and

 fairly and prosecute the case before the Court efficiently and properly. When

 such is the trust and faith of the people, very sadly CBI is dragging its feet,

 whenever there is a demand for CBI enquiry on the ground that resources and

 man power available with CBI are very restricted and therefore, it cannot

 conduct investigations. This is the usual stereotype version/defence of the CBI

 before the Courts. 2.The aforesaid version has been parroted before this Court that CBI

 has no resources and man power to investigate the case, which is sought to be

 referred to CBI by the Petitioner in this case. When the matter came up on

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 4/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 08.12.2020, this Court passed the following order: 09.06.2020 by Ramanathapuram Police and based on the basis of their
 confessions statements, the movable properties of A3 Neethimani viz. gold
 jewels of 99.5 sovereign (791.950 gms) Silver articles of 244.650 gms, cash
 Rs.2,49,050/-, wrist watch, documents, 6363 Singapore dollars and 3162
 Malaysian ringits were seized under a cover of athachi on the same day.
 Both the accused were remanded to judicial custody. Accused Menaka (A4)
 was arrested on 10.06.2020 and released on station bail by the
 Ramanathapuram police. Accused Neethimani was taken into police
 custody from 19.06.2020 to 23.06.2020 and Anand from 23.06.2020 to
 27.06.2020. Based on the confession of A3, 2 Cellphones, Laptop, foreign
 Passport, Pan Card, debit card and documents were further seized.
 Similarly on the confession of A2-Anand 5 Cellphones, 2 Foreign
 Passports, Debit cards, Visa Card, document, Cash Rs.40 Lakhs and 3
 vehicles bearing Registration No.1.TN-65 X2985 waganor Car, 2.
 TN-65AW 0006 Innovacar, 3.TN-65 AV 0006 Hyundai Elantra car were
 also seized. They were re-remanded to judicial custody. So far 452 petition
 have submitted their petitions to the district crime branch,
 Ramanathapuram on 15.09.2020 to the tune of Rs.100 Crores
 approximately. Based on the confession statement of A3 Neethimani,
 Cenima producers 7G Siva (A4), Gnannavelraja (A5) and Muruganantham
 (A6) have been added as accused for having received money from the A3
 Neethimani. And, based on the confession statement given by the A2
 Anand, at the time of police custody taken by the Ramanathapuram Police,
 the accused Raju (A7). Mahash (A8) and Boopesh (A9) were added as
 accused in Bazaar P.S. Crime No.347/2020 for extortion of Rs.30 Lakhs
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 7/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 from the accused Anand for the purpose of suppressing matters and not
 publishing the same in their channels. Hence the sections of Law of the
 case has been altered into 406, 420, 294(b), 506(ii), 109 I.P.C . by the
 Ramanathapuram Police. 5) I most respectfully submit that the respected Director General of Police
 vide proceedings in Rc.No.613743/Crime 3(2)/2020, dated: 01.09.2020
 passed order transferring the above said 3 cases to Economic Offences
 Wing-II, Madurai for further investigation. The same has been further
 ordered to root down to the actual Deputy Superintendent of Police EOW-
 II, Madurai, through the proceedings of the Superintendent of Police,
 EOW-II, Chennai, in RC.No.C2/EOW/ 5640/2020, Dated 15.09.2020,
 RC.No.C2/EOW/5643/ 2020, Dated 29.09.2020, for continuing the
 investigation. 6) It is humbly submitted that according to the orders of the superior police
 officials, the case in Crime No.2/2020 under Sections 406 , 420 , 120-B of
 IPC and Section 5 of TANPID Act was registered by me on 12.10.2020,
 and received the case diaries of crime No.41/2020 and 347/2020 from the
 hands of Ramanathapuram police. Subsequently, the case diaries of crime
 No.6/2020 was also received from Sivagangai police. The movable
 properties which were recovered by the Ramanathapuram police were
 taken over by us on 22.10.2020. 7)It is further submitted that so far 56 petitions have been received for the
 cheated amount at about 4.5 crores and all the petitioners were enquired.
 During the course of the investigation, the following immovable properties
 belong to the accused person were identified and requisition letter has
 been sent to Inspector General of Registration for confirmation and to get
 the details of more property details which are belonged to accused persons
 and in the name of their benomy. And, the concerned banks
 wherein the accused persons are having accounts are
 requested to stop transaction for the purpose of investigation. On
 23.10.2020, we have published advertisements in daily newspapers about
 the transfer of the investigation of the cases and requesting the depositors
 to lodge their complaints with EOW, Madurai. ................... 10)During the course of investigation, it was revealed that there are 20
 team leaders and nearly 200 against are in the above said defaulted
 company. Who re the main reason became the public as victims, the list of
 team leaders and against is submitted here with and they are being
 enquired.”

 This Court is convinced with the submissions made by the learned
 Additional Advocate General appearing for the respondents 1, 2 and 4
 regarding the investigation made by the Economic Offences Wing. A
 reading of the status report would reveal that the Economic Offences
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 8/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 Wing seized movables, identified about 19 immovable properties based
 on the confession statements of the arrested accused. Hence,
 investigation is progressing well and no transfer is required. 9. Mrs. Victoria Gowri, learned Assistant Solicitor General of India
 appearing for the third respondent relying upon the Full Bench
 Judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court of India, in STATE OF
 WEST BENGAL & ORS. Vs.THE COMMITTEE FOR
 PROTECTION OF DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS, WEST BENGAL &
 ORS., reported in 2010(3) SCC 571 FB, would submit that the power
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, in extraordinary
 circumstances, is to be used to refer the matter to the Central Bureau of
 Investigation. Only serious offences should be investigated by the
 Special Investigation Agency, like, Central Bureau of Investigation,
 otherwise it will lose its credibility. She opposed the petition
 contending that CBI is not having enough resources and personnel to
 investigate the cases. 10. If the investigation done by the Economic Offences Wing, which was
 previously done by the District Crime Branch, is transferred, definitely
 the investigation will be affected. Further investigation would be
 prolonged and it will not be in the interest of the depositors. Therefore,
 the prayer sought for by the petitioner cannot be granted. This Court
 hopes that the Economic Offences Wing will swiftly investigate and
 attach the immovable properties and file a charge sheet at the earliest
 possible. 11. However, if the petitioner has got concrete evidence for the
 allegations against the Deputy Collector and the Superintendent of
 Police, Ramanathapuram, this order will not prevent the petitioner to

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 9/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 take appropriate proceedings seeking investigation. 12. Since the plea of referring the matter to Central Bureau of
 Investigation is opposed by the learned Assistant Solicitor General of
 India appearing for the third respondent by submitting that the Central
 Bureau of Investigation does not have the required strength, this matter
 is taken up as a Public Interest Litigation to decide about the necessity
 to have more resources and more personnel including modern
 infrastructures for CBI. This Court suo motu impleads the following
 officials as eleventh and twelfth respondents in this writ petition: 13. Mrs.Victoria Gowri, learned Assistant Solicitor General of India,
 who takes notice for the third respondent, would oppose the writ
 petition for transferring the case by stating that the Central Bureau of
 Investigation does not have the required man power and resources to
 investigate all the cases, which are sought to be referred to the Central
 Bureau of Investigation. In support of her contention, she would rely
 upon the Full Bench Judgment of the Honourable Supreme Court of
 India, in STATE OF WEST BENGAL & ORS. Vs.THE
 COMMITTEE FOR PROTECTION OF DEMOCRATIC RIGHTS,
 WEST BENGAL & ORS., reported in 2010(3) SCC 571 FB. It is
 relevant to extract hereunder paragraph No.46 of the said judgment: 14. However, when serious cases are coming up before Courts, there is
 always a glamour to seek for transferring the cases to the Central
 Bureau of Investigation, as the Central Bureau of Investigation has got
 a reputation as a premier investigation agency. It is known for
 investigating economic offences, corruption cases and sensitive cases.
 However, many cases which are investigated by the Central Bureau of
 Investigation, even serious cases, have ended in acquittal. It badly
 reflects upon the investigation of CBI. Hence, time has come to look
 into problems faced by CBI. Investigation of CBI needs to be improved
 by adding experts and modern gadgets. 15. It is not known as to whether the Central Bureau of Investigation is
 doing recruitment of their own Officers independently or it is
 depending upon the Officers deputed from other sources. 16. The white collar crimes, like, Bank offences are mainly investigated
 by the Central Bureau of Investigation. When such serious
 investigations are being undertaken by the Central Bureau of
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 11/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 Investigation, it is stated that CBI depends upon the police officials
 deputed from various other sources, like State Police, CISF and CRPF
 and there is a likelihood of investigating officers going back to their
 parent force during investigation. If it is true, the Officials from CISF
 and CRPF may not have experience in investigation. To investigate
 white collar crimes, especially, Bank offences, financial offences, larger
 magnitude, the officials with qualifications of CA, ICWA, ACS, are
 essential for investigation. otherwise the very purpose of investigation
 will be frustrated, because of lack of expertise in that particular field. 17. When there is always a glamour for investigation by Central
 Bureau of Investigation, the Central Bureau of Investigation cannot
 oppose by stating that it does not have the required man power and
 resources and it has to increase the number of officials, as more
 number of cases are being referred to the Central Bureau of
 Investigation. More over, CBI should have expert officials with special
 knowledge in various fields, as various types of cases involving
 different fields are referred viz., Bhopal Gas Tragedy, Bofors scam, 2G
 Spectrum Scam, Coal Scam, Hawala Scandle, Phurlia Army dropping
 case, Sathyam Scandle, Sarada Chit Scandle, Nithari Killings, Sushant
 Singh Rajput suicide case, Taj Corridor case, Vyapam case....''

 While declining to refer the subject case to CBI, this Court raised 15 queries,

 regarding the resources, man power, investigating skills, infrastructural

 facilities available with CBI in the interest of the public. The queries raised in

 the interim order dated 08.12.2020 is extracted as follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 14/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 The mode of recruitment would also denote that 50% of the Inspectors of

 Police (1024) is by way of deputation from the State Police. The relevant table

 of the response is usefully extracted as follows: Post Mode of recruitment
 Additional Superintendent Filled 100% by promotion
 of Police (91)
 Dy. SP(301) Filled by 80:10:10
 Promotion:Deputation:Limited
 Departmental competitive
 examination all through UPSC
 Inspector of Police (1024) Filled by 50:50
 deputation/absorption:Promotion
 Sub-Inspector (480) Filled by 70:15:15
 Direct recruitment through SSC : Its jurisdiction was restricted to investigate economic, special crimes, cases of

 corruption and other cases in the Central Government departments and Union

 territories. On request from any State, the CBI could take over the

 investigation of any special case. CBI has got its nomenclature through Home

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 19/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 Ministry resolution dated 01.04.1963. CBI has three wings viz., Anti

 corruption, economic crimes and special crimes 13.Numerous sensitive cases of larger ramifications like Jain Hawala

 Scandal, Bofors Scam, Sohrabuddin case, Sant Singh Chatwal case, Foder case,

 Bhopal gas tragedy, 2G Spectrum case, Coal allocation scam, Noida double

 murder case, Nithari multiple murders, Rajiv Gandhi Assassination case. However, the premier investigating agency's work is restricted only to a few

 cases, due to lack of man power and resources as admitted by the Central

 Government before this Court as well as before various other Courts. Therefore, there is a need to increase the resources and man power to

 investigate more cases. For that there is a necessity to have a special Act by

 which the CBI could be granted a statutory status. Though, very sensitive and

 complicated cases are being investigated or handled, the number of cases

 handled by CBI is just equivalent or less than the case handled by a single

 police station in the country. Therefore, CBI has to take up more cases by

 increasing its man power and other resources. 14.The Assam High Court by judgment dated 06.11.2013 held that

 the constitution of CBI itself is unconstitutional and does not hold legal status

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 20/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 and the said judgment has been stayed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and the

 Appeal is still pending before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The above said

 judgment of the Assam High Court has only echoed the necessity of having a

 special Act for CBI, with more power and special budgetary allocation for its

 resources. 15.The CBI Director is being chosen by a high power committee with

 fixed tenure of two years as per the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in

 the case of Vineet Naryanan Vs. Union of India, in which some directions have

 been given to insulate the CBI. The said directions are usefully extracted as

 follows: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 22/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 9. The Director, CBI shall have full freedom for allocation of work
 within the agency as also for constituting teams for investigations.
 Any change made by the Director, CBI in the Head of an investigative
 team should be for cogent reasons and for improvement in
 investigation, the reasons being recorded. 10. Selection/extention of tenure of officers upto the level of Joint
 Director (JD) shall be decided by a Board comprising the central
 Vigilance Commissioner, Home Secretary and Secretary (Personnel)
 with the Director, CBI providing the necessary inputs. The extension
 of tenure or premature repatriation of officers upto the level of Joint
 Director shall be with final approval of the Board. Only cases
 pertaining to the appointment or extension of tenure of officers of the
 rank of Joint Director or above shall be referred to the Appointments
 Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) for decision. 11. Proposals for improvement of infrastructure, methods of
 investigation, etc. should be decided urgently. In order to strengthen
 CBI's in-house expertise, professionals from the revenue, banking and
 security sectors should be inducted into the CBI. 12. The CBI Manual based on statutory provisions of the Cr. P.C.
 provides essential guidelines for the CBI's functioning. It is imperative
 that the CBI adheres scrupulously to the provisions in the Manual in
 relation to its investigative functions, like raids, scizure and arrests.
 Any deviation from the established procedure should be viewed
 seriously and severe disciplinary action taken against the concerned
 officials. 13. The Director, CBI shall be responsible for ensuring the filing of
 chargesheets in courts within the stipulated time limits, and the matter
 should be kept under constant review by the Director, CBI 14. A document on CBI's functioning should be published within three
 months to provide the general public with a feedback on investigations
 and information for redress of genuine grievances in a manner which

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 23/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 does not compromise with the operational requirements of the CBI. 15. Time limit of three months for grant of sanction for prosecution
 must be strictly adhered to. However, additional time of one month
 may be allowed where consultation is required with the Attorney
 General (AG) or any other law officer in the AG's office. 16. The Director, CBI should conduct regular appraisal of personnel
 to prevent corruption and/or inefficiency in the agency.
 III. ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE 1. A Selection Committee headed by the Central Vigilance
 Commissioner and including the Home Secretary, Secretary
 (Personnel) and Revenue Secretary, shall prepare a panel for
 appointment of the Director, Enforcement Directorate. The
 appointment to the post of Director shall be made by the Appointments
 Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) from the panel recommended by the
 Selection Committee. 2. The Director, Enforcement Director like Director, CBI shall have a
 minimum tenure of two years. In his case also, premature transfer for
 any extraordinary reason should be approved by the aforesaid
 Selection Committee headed by the Central Vigilance commissioner. 3. In view of the importance of the post of Director, Enforcement
 Directorate, it shall be upgraded to that of a Additional
 Secretary/Special Secretary to the Government. 4. Officers of the Enforcement Directorate handling sensitive
 assignments shall be provided adequate security to enable them to
 discharge their functions fearlessly. 5. Extensions of tenure upto the level of Joint Director in the
 Enforcement Directorate should be decided by the said Committee
 headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner. 6. There shall be no premature media publicity by the
 CBI/Enforcement Directorate. 7. Adjudication/commencement of prosecution shall be made by the

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 24/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 enforcement Directorate within a period of one year. 8. The Director, Enforcement Directorate shall monitor and ensure
 speedy completion of investigations/adjudications and launching of
 prosecutions. Revenue Secretary must review their progress regularly. 9. For speedy conduct of investigations abroad, the procedure to
 approve filing of applications for Letters Rogatory shall be
 streamlined and, if necessary, Revenue Secretary authorised to grant
 the approval 10. A comprehensive circular shall be published by the Directorate to
 inform the public about the procedures/systems of its functioning for
 the sake of transparency. 11. In-house legal advice mechanism shall be strengthened by
 appointment of competent legal advisers in the CBI/Directorate of
 Enforcement. 12. The Annual Report of the Department of Revenue shall contain a
 detailed account on the working of the Enforcement Directorate.
 III. NODAL AGENCY 1. A Nodal Agency headed by the Home Secretary with Member
 (Investigation), Central Board of Direct Taxes, Director General,
 Revenue Intelligence, Director, Enforcement and Director, CBI as
 members, shall be constituted for coordinated action in cases having
 politico-bureaucrat- criminal nexus. 2. The Nodal Agency shall meet at least once every month. 3. Working and efficacy of the Nodal Agency should be watched for
 about one year so as to improve it upon the basis of the experience
 gained within this period. IV PROSECUTION AGENCY 1. A panel of competent lawyers of experience and impeccable
 reputation shall be prepared with the advice of the Attorney General
 Their services shall be utilised as Prosecuting Counsel in cases of
 significance. Even during the course of investigation of an offence,

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 25/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 the advice of a lawyer chosen from the panel should be taken by the
 CBI/Enforcement Directorate. 2. Every prosecution which results in the discharge or acquittal of the
 accused must be reviewed by a lawyer on the panel and, on the basis
 of the opinion given, responsibility should be fixed for dereliction of
 duty, if any, of the concerned officer. In such cases, strict action
 should be taken against the officer found guilty of dereliction of duty. 3. The preparation of the panel of lawyers with approval of the
 Attorney General shall be completed within three months. 4. Steps shall be taken immediately for the constitution of an able and
 impartial agency comprising persons of unimpeachable integrity to
 perform functions akin to those of the Director of Prosecutions in
 U.K. On the constitution of such a body, the task of supervising
 prosecutions launched by the CBI/Enforcement Directorate shall be
 entrusted to it. 5. Till the constitution of the aforesaid body, Special Counsel shall be
 appointed for the conduct of important trials on the recommendation
 of the Attorney General or any other law officer designated by him.”

 Only when CBI is given a statutory status, the autonomy of CBI would be

 ensured. Secondly it should have a dedicated cadre of officers on its own

 without getting the officials on deputation. The CBI should have an autonomy

 as that of Comptroller and Auditor General of India, who is only accountable to

 Parliament. 16.It is also stated that the CBI lacks sufficient financial

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 26/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 administrative powers and CBI should be vested with ex-officio powers of the

 Secretary to the Government of India, who is reporting directly to the Ministry

 without having to go through the DoPT. 17.Having faith in the CBI, the constitutional Courts like the

 Supreme Court and High Courts started entrusting the investigation of cases

 with CBI, without a State’s consent also. Otherwise, State’s consent is

 necessary for CBI investigation. 18.In view of the above, the following directions are given in the

 interest of the Institution/CBI as well as public who have got enormous faith

 and trust in the Premier Institution: https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 29/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 19.With the above directions, this Writ Petition is disposed of. No

 costs. Consequently, connected Miscellaneous Petition is closed. This order is an attempt to release the "Caged Parrot" (CBI). 20.Call the matter after six weeks for filing compliance report or for

 appearance of the Director, Central Bureau of Investigation, New Delhi. 1.The Principal Secretary to Govt. of Tamil Nadu,
 Home Department, Secretariat,
 St.George Fort, Chennai – 600 009. 2.The Director General of Police,
 (Law and Order),
 4, Dr.Radhakrishnan Salai,
 Mylapore, Chennai – 600 004. 3.The Director,
 Central Bureau of Investigation,
 New Delhi. 4.The Additional Director General of Police,
 Economical Offences Wing,
 1st Floor, SIDCO Complex,
 Thiru.Vi.Ka. Industrial Estate,
 Guindy, Chennai – 600 032. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 30/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 5.The Inspector General of Police,
 Economical Offences Wing,
 1st Floor, SIDCO Complex,
 Thiru.Vi.Ka. Industrial Estate,
 Guindy, Chennai – 600 032. 6.The Superintendent of Police,
 Economical Offences Wing-II,
 1st Floor, SIDCO Complex,
 Thiru.Vi.Ka. Industrial Estate,
 Guindy, Chennai – 600 032. 7.The Deputy Superintendent of Police,
 Economical Offences Wing-II,
 No.39, Viswanathapuram, Madurai – 625 014. 8.The Inspector of Police,
 Economical Offences Wing-II,
 No.39, Viswanathapuram, Madurai – 625 014. 9.The Inspector of Police,
 Bazaar Police Station,
 Ramanathapuram District,
 Crime No.347 of 2020. 10.The Inspector of Police,
 District Crime Branch,
 Ramanathapuram District. 11.The Secretary to Government,
 Union of India,
 Ministry of Home and Affairs, North Block,
 New Delhi 110 001. 12.The Secretary to Government,
 Union of India,
 Ministry of Personnel and Training,
 Public Grievances, New Delhi 110 001. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 31/32 W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 N.KIRUBAKARAN, J. and
 B.PUGALENDHI, J. sai W.P.(MD)No.17716 of 2020 and W.M.P.(MD).No.14803 of 2020 Dated : 17.08.2021

https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis/ 32/32