SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: (Rant) Just got scammed multiple times in a row for quite a huge amount
DATE: 2023-02-18
SCORE: 60
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1153bg0/rant_just_got_scammed_multiple_times_in_a_row_for/

--- POST TEXT ---

F u scammers. It's nothing less than a murder or mental torture. And for those who aren't socially smart like me, we're doomed to die or suffer in silence. I thought if I'm not good for myself, atleast I'd be good for someone else in this pathetic world. F hope, f trust, f good thing that could be in this world only if you are street smart. The funny thing is literally every moment of your life you need to be street smart starting from family who force you stuff for mostly their benefit, to nosy and selfish neighbour's and relatives, to these trash scammers.

The best part is people like me never learn. I can't live if I fake street smartness. I hate to overanalyse every situation and making connections in my mind to verify. I'm not quick and neither socially witty to reply back to their shitty mental manipulation even if I understand the reality. Leave replying, I can't even force myself to act against their orders, it's some kind of psychological habit in me. In short I suck to adapt to the witty Indians. I don't have the street smartness an Indian should have I guess.

That's it I guess. I was ordered to pay multiple times in a row, each time a bigger amount, each time my hands shivering but couldn't say no, couldn't cut the call, and couldn't stop my hands from clicking pay each time. What an idiot! And this will repeat again when I expect the least. No therapist could probably help either. I'm the one I think, for all to loot my money organs, body, service, empathy, sympathy.. all. The one for these lucky bastards to feed on so they can live a better life than me. Lucky to be gifted with wit or atleast the motivation or ability to develop wit.

I had always thought if dumb was a disability or mental illness, I think I should get myself admitted and never be released. Now I just get even more reason to find an ashram for dumb, where probably they are looted even more and tortured to death, and so that you dont have to be your own responsibility.

 I don't even think this is harsh talk . Its reality. No good words can make me better in wit. Instead I feel good words are just another scam to stay deluded. Whether I feel good or bad with words, my efforts can only build wit upto my capacity which is too low in society.

Edit: surprised to see more scammers in r/india asking me to click links to get my money back which is already scammed, which didnt happen when posted a while later in r/rant thinking this isnt the right place and instead got warned there about such re-scams. Moreover I hate surprises. So f u

Edit2 : (the whole story)
It's the army check card fraud according to internet which I could get through Google properly only after an hour or so of the fraud bcz of the sudden panic from the realisation. Here they pose as customers or anyone who work in Indian army, who wants to pay you but they aren't allowed to run upi there. So they'll pay the sum to the army account and we have to pay the same amount to an account they say, and both the amounts total gets refunded to your account. 
Added to this, they question your trust on indian army, authenticity of the officers and play with your lack of knowledge regarding Indian army bank working. This with someone who is stupid and anxious.. bam you get scammed.

I was trying to sell stuff on olx, got a customer who happened to be the scammer, asked for my upi id, got told to try the payment for 1rs to the sent account, to explain how army account works, got 2rs refunded, asked to pay the selling price, received an automated message to pay double the amount, did it without thinking it could be scam, was late in processing the amount so have to pay almost 3 to 4 times the amount now, did it with shaky hands cuz now there's a lot of money going but my fucking brain was not ready to accept it is a scam and was hoping all would be returned. My bank balance empty, he says I need to pay the security amount to put the security pin to get refunded, i said i have no money, he asked to ask others else he will lose his money too. Explanation went on for around half an hour, when i started getting worried and scared that i started asking for all his details if he wanted his security money. He sent me his bombay sappers association card and canteen card with his name place number (pretty sure he isnt the same person). Asked him his army bank account details so said he cant disclose it as per rules and started urging me to pay before time's out again else both our money will stay within the army account and getting it out is impossible. Stupid me went to friend asking for money, she sat me and explained he is fraud and I couldn't fuking accept it for 10-20 mins. I just kept repeating he shouldnt be and I dont want to lose my money. After the realisation hit blocked him, he called from 2 other numbers and messaged me saying I'm playing with an officers money and pay him his amount if not the security money else this can ruin my life and threats (no clue how), blocked them all, and still when true caller showed his number, made my friend trash talk to him for me until she got frustrated with how much dedication and confidence he is talking nonsense back and guilt tripping her too. 

Then hours of googling as to how to secure account, if it can be hacked with just a upi id, how to file FIR, where to complain, can bank do something, lots of crying, embarassment and now a permanent insecurity as to how dangerous my life is if I'm still going to be dumb the same way, with thoughts of meaninglessness to life, trust in myself, humanity, fear and death (maybe too far for just a scam and nothing worse yet)