Hon'ble Manoj Kumar Gupta,J. (Per Hon. Manoj Kumar Gupta, J.)
 
	This batch of writ petitions has been filed questioning the result of the combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (General Recruitment) Examination 2016 and Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (Special Recruitment) Examination 20161 conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission2. The petitioners are aspirants for various posts of the Provincial Services in the State. The examination is conducted in two stages. It comprises of a preliminary written examination which is in the nature of a screening test to find out suitable candidates in required proportion in each category. The marks obtained in the preliminary examination are not counted for determining the final order of merit. The candidates, who succeed in the preliminary examination, enters the second stage of recruitment, which comprises of a main written examination followed by interview/personality test. The aggregate of the marks obtained in the main examination and interview form the basis for determining the final order of merit. The Commission follows the procedure laid down under the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (Procedure and Conduct of Business) Rules, 20113 framed under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Uttar Pradesh State Public Service Commission (Regulation of Procedure) Act, 19854. The petitioners have appeared in the preliminary written examination but the marks awarded to them have fallen short of the prescribed cut off marks in their respective category. They have approached this Court alleging various discrepancies in the model answer keys and the method of evaluation. The screening of the candidates was held on basis of two papers of General Studies; (i) General Studies I, which was of qualifying nature and the marks obtained therein were not counted for determining the merit; and (ii) General Studies II comprising of 150 questions bearing in aggregate 200 marks, all carrying equal marks. The questions were multiple choice objective type, each having four options. The candidate has to select one of the alternatives as the correct answer. If a candidate marks two answers as correct, it was treated as a wrong answer. According to the stand taken in the counter affidavit, the Commission got prepared the key answers and notified the same on the official website of the Commission from 27 April 2016 to 1 May 2016 inviting objections against the same. In pursuance thereof, objections were received in respect of 82 questions. The objections received were placed before an Expert Panel and on the basis of their opinion, the Commission deleted five questions (question nos.22, 26, 30, 122 & 128) and the marks of these questions were distributed on pro-rata basis to all candidates; in respect of two questions (question nos.119 & 139), two options were accepted as correct answer and the Commission awarded full marks to candidates exercising any one of the choice. The Commission on the basis of the opinion of the Expert Panel, while accepting the objections in respect of certain questions, prepared a final answer key and based on the same, declared the result of the preliminary examination on 27 May 2016. The answer books were in four series; A, B, C & D. All references in this judgment are in context of series B, which was referred to by learned counsel for the parties at the time of making oral submissions. Learned counsel for the petitioners in various writ petitions have made the following submissions:- The Supreme Court thereafter proceeded to examine the correctness of the key answers on the basis of the standard text books and concluded by holding that the key answers to some of the questions were incorrect. Accordingly, the direction issued by the High Court for the re-assessment of certain questions and for granting admission to the students to M.B.B.S. course based on such re-assessment was upheld. The decision in the case of Kanpur University (supra) was followed by the Supreme Court in its later decision in Manish Ujwal and others Vs. Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati9 . The Supreme Court did not approve of the view taken by the High Court in refusing to interfere in the matter by holding that "it cannot be said with certainty that answers to the six questions given in the key answers were erroneous and incorrect". The Supreme Court not only held that where the key answers are demonstrably erroneous the students cannot be made to suffer but even observed that in such cases persons responsible for preparing an incorrect answer key should be proceeded against. It held thus :- In a more recent decision in the case of Vikas Pratap Singh and others Vs. State of Chhattishgarh & others10, the Supreme Court was called upon to adjudge the validity of the decision of the Chhattishgarh Professional Examination Board conducting the recruitment on the posts of Subedars, Platoon Commanders and Sub Inspectors in cancelling the result of the main examination. In that case, after the appointments were made based on the selection held by the Board, several complaints were received in respect of mistakes in several questions of the main examination. The Board constituted an expert committee and based upon its recommendation, it deleted eight questions in second paper, which were found to be incorrect and also corrected model answer key in respect of eight questions and accordingly, carried out re-evaluation of the answer scripts of the candidates. As a result thereof, some of the candidates who had been declared selected and given appointment got affected resulting in cancellation of their appointments. The selected candidates assailed the decision of the Board before the High Court, but the High Court upheld the decision. In appeal by the selected candidates, the Supreme Court approved the following guidelines framed by the Board for deleting the questions:- The Supreme Court also approved the decision of the Board in re-evaluating the answer scripts based on the correct answer keys by holding thus:- In Rajesh Kumar and another Vs. State of Bihar and others11, the Supreme Court was considering the validity of a selection made by Bihar State Staff Selection Commission, on the basis of a written objective type examination. The evaluation of the answer scripts was subject matter of challenge at the instance of unsuccessful candidates. The High Court referred the model answer key to a body of experts, which found two questions to be wrongly framed, while two others were found to have been repeated. One of the questions was also found to be defective as the choices in the answer key were printed only partially. The High Court, having noticed that the model answers were wrong, quashed the entire selection and directed for conducting a fresh examination. The Supreme Court approved the decision of the High Court in so far as it held that the selection made on the basis of incorrect model answer key is not sustainable, but moulded the relief by directing preparation of final merit list on basis of correct answer key and in permitting the candidates who had already been appointed to continue in service subject to the rider that they shall figure at the bottom of the list of the candidates who would be selected on the basis of correct answer key. Much emphasis has been laid by learned counsel for the respondents upon the decision of the Supreme Court in H.P. Public Service Commission (supra). In that case, the unsuccessful candidates in a selection for the post of Civil Judge (Junior Division) applied before the High Court for re-evaluation of the paper of Civil Law II, which was a subjective type test. The High Court got the answer sheets of the candidates re-evaluated from a Reader in Law in Himachal Pradesh University. Based on the result of the re-evaluation, the High Court disposed of the writ petition by directing the Commission to issue appointment letter to the petitioners. The direction issued by the High Court was subject matter of challenge before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in the aforesaid background held that in absence of any specific provision relating to re-evaluation of answer books, the High Court should not have issued such a direction. The Supreme Court itself got a fresh evaluation done by an eminent Professor, wherein the marks awarded was much less. In the aforesaid background facts, the Supreme Court held that in the absence of any specific provision relating to re-evaluation, the High Court was not justified in issuing such a direction. It has been observed thus:- In the aforesaid context, the Supreme Court held that:- The observations made above are to be understood in the context of the facts of that particular case where correctness of a subjective type test was in issue and not laying down a general proposition that in no event the High Court can examine the correctness of the model answer key. We do not feel persuaded to accept that the Supreme Court has excluded the process of judicial review even where the result of the selection is based on objective type test, having one out of the given options as the correct answer. In Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Education (supra) also relied upon by learned counsel for the respondents, the issue before the Supreme Court was in regard to the right of a candidate to seek re-evaluation of the answer scripts. It was held that non availability of provision relating to re-evaluation does not amount to denial of fair play in the examination nor such a provision could be stuck down as violative of Article 14. The Supreme Court observed that the candidate having taken the examination on the full awareness of the provisions contained in the Regulation and in the declaration made in the form of application for admission to the examination cannot later complain that absence of provision relating to re-evaluation was against public interest. Another decision cited by learned counsel for the respondents is by a Division Bench of this Court in Sandeep Mishra (supra), wherein this Court relying upon the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (supra) held that re-evaluation of question paper was beyond the power of review by the High Court. The larger Bench decision of the Supreme Court in Kanpur University (supra) nor other decisions following the said judgment were placed before the Division Bench. Thus, with profound respect to their Lordships of the Division Bench, we find it difficult to follow the said decision particularly in view of the authoritative pronouncement made by the Supreme Court in Kanpur University (supra). We thus conclude that the law on the point is very clear. The opinion of the University or the examining body is normally to be accepted as it is assumed that such body of men are well versed in their subject. At the same time, the decision of the examining body or the experts is not beyond judicial review. The prime consideration is to maintain the purity of the examination and the welfare of the students/candidates, as in case a wrong key answer is accepted, it would result in the merit being a casualty. The object of conducting an examination is to assess the respective merits of the candidates and to find out the most suitable one for admission or for selection to a public post. The very object of conducting the test would stand defeated, in case a wrong answer key is held to be sacrosanct and beyond judicial review. However, the Court should be cautious and circumspect in interfering with the opinion of the experts. It could only be where the key answers are demonstrably wrong, that is to say, it must be such as no men well versed in the subject would regard as correct. Having regard to the legal position discussed above, we proceed to examine the contentions on merits. The parties, in order to support their respective contentions, have placed reliance on various text-books Wikipedia, dictionaries and reference books. The Court with the assistance of learned counsel for the parties categorised the disputed questions subjectwise and by order dated 15 September 2016 sought opinion of experts. The questions relating to current affairs were not sent to the Expert, the Court being of the opinion that the controversy in regard thereto is required to be resolved by the Court itself, based on facts and figures provided by the respective parties. Question nos.44, 52 and 80, which relate to geography, were referred for expert opinion to Prof. H.N. Misra, who is presently a Senior Professor in the Department of Geography, University of Allahabad. 	Question no.44 is as under:- It is amply clear from the opinion of the expert, who extensively considered the standard text-books on the subject, that Mistral blows in 'Rhone Valley', which got its name from the river 'Rhone' which flows through it. The 'Rhone' originates in Rhone Glacier in the mountains of Switzerland, passes through Lake Geneva and running through southeastern France and empties in the Mediterranean Sea. Its length is 505 miles. On the other hand, 'Rhine' is a European river that begins in the Swiss Canton of Graubunden in the southeastern Swiss Alps and empties into the North Sea in the Netherlands. Its length is about 764 miles. It passes through Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Austrian, Germany, Franco and Netherlands. The area through which it flows is known as Rhine Valley (from Wikipedia and Oxford Student Atlas). Thus, Mistral though matches with 'Rhone', it does not match with 'Rhine' and thus option 'c' would also be a correct answer. In such circumstances, as per the procedure adopted by the Commission, in cases where two options were found to be correct, it should have awarded full marks to the candidates exercising any of these options. In not doing so, the Commission has committed a grave error, resulting in serious prejudice to the candidates who had exercised option (c). Question no.52 is to the following effect:- The candidates have placed reliance on the data provided by (i) the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, according to which, the export of tea by Sri Lanka was 311.0 thousand tonnes in the year 2013, whereas that by Kenya was 415.9 thousands tonnes; (ii) the statistics provided by the Statistics Branch of Tea Board of India, an agency of the Government of India, according to which, the export share of Kenya in the year 2014 was 27.30%, whereas that of Sri Lanka was 17.38%; and (iii) material downloaded from the internet, according to which, Kenya ranks highest in the list of tea exporting countries of the world, exporting 396,641 metric tonnes annually whereas, Sri Lanka 318,329 metric tonnes annually. The Commission has also placed reliance on the figures provided by (I) Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for the year 2014, according to which, Sri Lanka exported tea worth Rs.1.6 billion US dollar (23% of total exports), China 1.3 billion dollar (18.2%), whereas Kenya 907.5 million US dollar (12.9%). The expert appointed by the Court, after going through the entire material, was of the opinion that although Kenya may be largest exporter of tea in terms of volume but Sri Lanka occupies the first rank amongst the tea exporting countries of the world in terms of the earning in the International market. In his opinion, it is the value earned in terms of US dollars, which is taken note of for the purposes of comparison and not the quantity/volume being exported. The difference in the ranking in terms of earning as compared to volume is for the reason that Sri Lankan tea is considered far superior in quality in the International market and thus, fetches much higher price as compared to Kenyan tea. Accordingly, he concurred with the opinion of the Commission that option (d) 'Sri Lanka' is the correct answer. Although from the question as framed it is not very clear as to whether the Commission is seeking a reply from the candidates in terms of earnings or in terms of quantity, but in case the earnings in terms of US dollars is taken as yardstick for comparison, the answer given by the Commission is a correct one and thus, keeping in mind the enunciation of law on the subject by the Supreme Court, we accept the answer provided by the Commission, but with a suggestion to the Commission that it should abstain from asking questions which are confusing. Question no.80 reads thus:- Thus, we have no hesitation in accepting option (a) as the correct answer as notified by the Commission. Question nos.92 and 122 were referred to Dr. Manju Sahney, Professor & Head, Department of Botany, University of Allahabad, Allahabad for opinion. Question no.92 is as under:- Match the List -I with List List -II and select the correct answer from the codes given below the lists : Lwkph&I dks lwph&II ds lkFk lqesfyr dfj;s rFkk lwfp;ksa ds uhps fn;s dwV ls lgh mRrj pqfu;s%
 

 
Lwkph&I lwph&II 
 
A. foVhdYpj 1. lCth [ksrh
 
B. osthdYpj 2. eNyh ikyu
 
C. filhdYpj 3. o`{kksa dh [ksrh
 
D. vksysjhdYpj 4. vaxwj dh [ksrh
 
Codes : A B C D (a) 1 2 3 4 (b) 4 3 2 1 (c) 3 2 1 4 (d) 4 1 2 3
 

 
	According to the Commission, the correct answer is option (b), which matches thus: According to the candidates, option (b) and option (d) are equally correct or equally incorrect and the question should have been deleted. There is no dispute that 'Viticulture' refers to 'Grapes farming', thus item A in List-I matches with item 4 in List-II. 'Pisciculture' item C in List-I matches with item 2 (Fish farming) in List-II. Item D (Olericulture) in List-I, according to the Commission, matches with item 1 (Vegetable farming) in List-II. However, according to the candidates, item no.3 (Tree farming) in List-II is more appropriate. The expert opined that the answer given by the Commission is more appropriate answer. The expert has placed reliance on the text-book by Dr. H.P. Singh by the name 'Horticulture At a Glance' (Volume-II), wherein Olericulture has been explained as that branch of Horticulture Science which deals with study of vegetable production. The relevant extract from the said text book in relation to 'Olericulture' is as under:- In another text-book on Horticulture by Rajendra Reddy and J.P. Abhay Shanker, 'Olericulture' has been stated to be that area of Horticulture which relates to study of production and marketing of vegetables. We thus concur with the opinion of the Commission and the Expert appointed by the Court. According to the Commission, item B (Vegeculture) in List-I matches with item 3 (Tree farming) of List-II. The candidates have emphatically disputed the same. The expert appointed by the Court opined that more appropriate term for tree farming is 'Arboriculture'. Whereas, the expert opined that option D, as suggested by the candidates, is not correct but at the same time, she also did not seem to be in agreement with the Commission that 'Vegeculture' refers to 'tree farming'. In the book, Agricultural Systems of the World by D.B. Grigg, published by Cambridge University Press, 'Vegeculture' is explained as the mode of cultivation in which the reproduction of the plant is by vegetative propagation. A portion of the plant is replanted at a new location for reproduction. Thus, Vegeculture, according to the text-book, "refers to plants reproduced by vegetative propagation, mainly tropical roots such as taro, manioc, yarns, sweet potatoes and arrowroot." A research paper by Huw Barton, School of Archaeology and Ancient History, University of Leicester and Tin Denham, School of Geography and Environmental Studies, Australia explain Vegeculture as: Which one of the following food materials contains all essential amino acids ? (a) Rice (b) Milk (c) Egg (d) Soyabean 
 
fuEu fyf[kr HkksT; inkFkksZa esa ls fdlesa lHkh vfuok;Z ,sehuks vEy mifLFr gS \ (a) pkoy (b) nw/k (c) vaMk (d) lks;kchu
 

 
	The Commission in the provisional answer key notified option (c) 'eggs' as the correct option but later on deleted the same in the final answer key, as the experts of the Commission opined that the question as framed is incorrect. The candidates contended that (b) and (c) are both correct, as these food products contain all essential amino acids. It is urged that since the Commission in cases where two options were found to be correct has awarded full marks to the candidates, consequently, in the present instance as well, it should have given full marks to a candidate exercising any of the option. According to the expert appointed by the Court, all the above food materials contain all essential amino acids but in different amount. Eggs are considered to have perfect protein and are assigned score 100 and other foods rated in comparison with eggs have the following protein score:- The expert has placed reliance on the text-book 'Introduction to Agronomy'	by Craig C. Sheaffer and Kristine M. Moncada and 'Biochemistry' by Mc Kee and M Kee. On the other hand, the candidates have relied on a text-book by Dr. Smt. Brinda Singh, which only enumerates certain foods which contains all essential amino acids, but it does not contain exhaustive list of all such food products. Thus, in the opinion of the Court, not one of the food materials given as options contains all essential amino acids but all of them and consequently, the question was rightly deleted. No prejudice has been caused thereby to any candidate. Question nos.128, 136 and 140 relating to History were referred to Professor Yogeshwar Tiwari, a Senior Faculty in the Department of History, University of Allahabad. Question no.128 is to the following effect:- 2. 128 'Prithivyah Pratham Veer' was the title of (a) Samudragupta (b) Rajendra-1 (c) Amoghavarsha (d)Gautamiputra Shatkarni
 
*i`fFkO;k izFke ohj^ mikf/k Fkh\ (a) leqnzxqIr dh (b) jktsUnz izFke dh (c) veks?ko"kZ dh (d) xkSrehiq= 'kkrd.khZ dh 
 

 
	The Commission deleted the said question, as none of the options were found to be correct. The expert appointed by the Court is also of the same opinion. On the other hand, the candidates contend that correct answer is option (a) 'Samudragupta'. The candidates placed reliance on a text-book by Tej Ram Sharma 'A Political History of Imperial Guptas' which states that Samudragupta earned for himself the title 'Prithivyama-Pratiratha' having no rival on earth and another text-book by Krishna Chandra Srivastava, Reader, Ancient History, Chaudhary Mahadev Prasad Degree College, Allahabad which states that the popularity of Samudragupta reached even to Indra Lok for having conquered entire earth. However, none of these text-books mentions that he was ever conferred the title in question. We thus have no hesitation in concurring with the stand taken by the Commission in deleting the said question and in discarding the choice suggested by the candidates. Question no.136 is as under:- 3. 136 Sir Thomas Munro was Governor of Madras during years (a) 1820 -1827 A.D. (b) 1819-1826 A.D. (c) 1822-1829 A.D. (d) 1818-1825 A.D.
 
lj Vkel equjks fdu o"kksZa esa enzkl ds xouZj jgs\ (a) 1820 -1827 bZ- (b) 1819-1826 bZ- (c) 1822-1829 bZ- (d) 1818-1825 bZ- According to the Commission, the correct option is (a), whereas according to the candidates, it is option (b). The candidates relied on NCERT text book 'Our Pasts-III' which contains a portrait of Sir Thomas Munro and states that he was governor of Madras from 1819-1826. The expert appointed by the Court concurred with the Commission for the following reasons:- We are persuaded to accept the answer given by the Commission, being supported by authentic material, also referred to by the expert appointed by the Court. We, therefore, reject the contention of the candidates that option (b) was correct. Question No.140 is as under:- 4. 140 'The last Sun of Indian glory' has been used for (a) Shivaji (b) Prithviraj (c) Rana Pratap (d) Hemu
 
*Hkkjrh; xkSjo ¼;'k½ dk vfUre lw;Z^ fdlds fy;s iz;qDr gqvk \ (a) f'kokth (b) i`Fkohjkt (c) jkukizrki (d) gsew
 

 
	The Commission initially notified option (a) as the correct choice in the provisional answer key but after considering the objections of the candidates accepted option (b) as the correct answer. According to the candidates, the correct answer is option (a) or in the alternative, question as framed is incorrect and should have been deleted. The Commission in accepting option (b) as correct choice has placed reliance on a book by Dr. Vipin Bihari Sinha titled 'Madhyakalin Bharat', wherein it is stated thus:- The costliest metal of the world discovered recently, is (a) Endohedral Fullerence (b) Californium 252 (c) Tritium (d) Rhodium
 
gky gh esa [kksth x;h fo'o dh lcls eWagxh /kkrq gS % (a) ,aMksgsMªy Qqyjhu (b) dSyhQksjfu;e 252 (c) fVªfV;e (d) jksfM;e
 

 
	According to the Commission, the correct answer is option (b) 'Californium 252', whereas according to the candidates, the correct answer is option (a) 'Endohedral Fullerence' and in the alternative, the question as framed is wrongly structured and, should have been deleted. The Expert appointed by the Court agreed with the petitioners that the costliest metal on earth discovered so far is 'Endohedral Fullerence', but did not accept it as a correct answer to the question posed as it is a non-metal. According to the Expert, the costliest metal on earth discovered so far is Californium 252 as suggested by the Commission. For convenience of reference, the opinion of the expert is extracted below:- 2. In the above-mentioned Periodic Table, Californium (atomic number 98: Californium 252 being an isotope of Californium) and Rhodium (atomic number 45) have been marked as metals. It is also clear that Endohedral Fullerences and Tritium do not fall under the category of metals. Annexure "A" 3. Californium 252 was discovered in 1950 and costs US $ 27 million per gram whereas Rhodium was discovered in 1803 and costs US $ 58 per gram. Annexure "B" 4. Endohedral fullerences, also called endofullerenes, are fullerenes that have additonal atoms, ions, or clusters enclosed within their inner spheres. The first lanthanum C60 complex was synthesized in 1985 and called La@C60. The @ (at sign) in the name reflects the notion of a small molecule trapped inside a shell. Two types of endohedral complexes exist: endohedral metallofullerenes (if metal atom is inside the fullerene cage) and non-metal doped fullerenes (if atom/luster is other than metal atom inside the fullerene cage). It is worth mentioning here that the main case or sphere of fullerenes is composed of "Carbon" atoms only and "Carbon" is marked as non-metal in the Periodic Table." In the face of the said opinion, we have no hesitation in repelling the contention of the candidates that option (a) was the correct answer. We now proceed to examine the alternate submission that the question as framed was misleading, wrongly structured and should have been deleted. A close examination of the question reveals that the question uses the word 'recently' as a clue to the candidates for answering the same. The candidate immediately starts reflecting upon a recent discovery as a correct answer. Californium 252 having been discovered in the year 1950 may, therefore, be ruled out as a possible answer. He is immediately drawn towards option (a) 'Endohedral Fullerence' which was discovered more recently in 1985. The confusion gets confounded by the fact that Endohedral Fullerence also exists with metal atom inside the fullerence cage. The said discovery is a more recent one. Hisanori Shinohara, Department of Chemistry and Institute for Advanced Research Nagoya University, Japan and Nikos Tagmatarchis, Theoretical and Physical Chemistry Institute, National Hellenic Research Foundation, Greece in their research paper on 'Endohidral Metallo Fullerences' have reported about the said discovery as under:- The free Encyclopedia from Wikipedia also states about the recent discovery of Endohedral Metalofullerences. It categorises the Endohedral complexes as 'endohedral metallofullerenes' and 'non-metal doped fullerenes'. Although it is true that fullerences discovered in 1985 have non metal cage comprising of carbon but a candidate having an idea of endohedral metallo fullerence would immediately start thinking of the said substance discovered recently in view of the clue given in the question itself. A candidate had to answer 150 questions in two hours and thus got 48 seconds on an average for each question. A candidate with higher intelligent quotient will obviously make an effort to answer the question and in the process will loose valuable time, so crucial for optimum output. Thus, in the opinion of the Court, a question containing a wrong clue works seriously to the prejudice of a bright student. The very object of identifying the best talent stands defeated. The Court is, thus, of the opinion that the question, as it contains a wrong and misleading clue, should have been deleted. Question no.91 is as under:- Which one of the following gases is not a green house gas ? (a) CO2 (b) CH4 (c) NO2 (d) O2
 
fuEufyf[kr xSlksa esa ls dkSu lh ,d xzhu gkml xSl ugha gS\ (a) CO2 (b) CH4 (c) NO2 (d) O2
 

 
	According to the Commission, the correct answer is option (d) 'O2', whereas according to the candidates, options (c) and (d) both are correct answers. The expert appointed by the Court opined thus:- 2. Nox are shown as indirect GHG in the "Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 3. NOx are shown as indirect GHG in the "National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory, UK: Overview of greenhouse gases". Annexure "D" 4. The textbook written under the supervision of the University Grants Commission, New Delhi, "Environmental Studies" clearly mentions nitrogen oxides as greenhouse gases responsible for global warming. Annexure "E" 5. A report from WHO (2003) also clearly says that the gas NO2 (and other nitrogen oxides) is also a precursor for a number of harmful secondary pollutants, including nitric acid, the nitrate part of secondary inorganic aersols and photo oxidants (including ozone). Annuexure "F" 6. Two different Text Books clearly indicate the mechanism of conversion of NO and NO2 under the effect of sunlight into ozone (Tropospheric ozone is a greenhouse gas). Annexure "G" & "H" Further comments: It is clear from the opinion of the expert that NO2 under the effect of sunlight gets converted into Ozone. It is thus an 'indirect green house gas'. We therefore accept option (d) as the correct answer, as suggested by the Commission. Question No.66 in English as well as in Hindi reads thus:- Which one of the following is not a new scheme announced for the development of urban infrastructure ? (a) Swachcha Bhaarata Mission (b) Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojna (c) Smart City Scheme (d) Digital India Scheme
 
fuEufyf[kr esa ls dkSu lh ;kstuk 'kgjh v/kkslajpuk ds fodkl ds fy;s ?kksf"kr dh x;h u;h ;kstuk ugha gS \ (a) LoPN Hkkjr fe'ku (b) gsfjVst flVh MsoyiesaV ,.M vkWxesUVs'ku ;kstuk (c) LekVZ flVh ;kstuk (d) fMftVy Hkkjr ;kstuk
 

 
	According to the Commission, the correct answer is option (a) 'Swachha Bharat Mission', whereas according to the petitioners, the correct answer is option (d) 'Digital India Scheme'. The petitioners contend that Digital India Scheme is not a scheme relating to development of infrastructure but was launched to ensure that Government services are made available to citizens electronically by improving online infrastructure and increasing internet connectivity making the country digitally empowered in the field of technology. It is further urged that it is not confined only to rural area but extends also to urban areas and thus, out of the given options, option (d) would be the most appropriate answer. The opinion of the expert body of the Commission is as under:- The data provided above reveals that all the schemes are relatively new one launched between October 2014 and 1st July 2015. The question was not that which amongst the following is relatively not a new scheme or which amongst the following is the oldest one. A bare reading of the question would reflect that the emphasis is on the words 'not a new scheme'. In other words, the question setter intended to ask that which one of the following schemes announced for development of urban infrastructure is an old scheme continuing since before and not a new one. Thus, in the opinion of the Court, the expert body of the Commission completely misunderstood the question. If we proceed to examine the correct answer to the question by understanding it in the most common sense discussed above, we find from the material provided by the petitioners themselves that amongst these schemes, Swachcha Bharat Mission is the only scheme which had existed in the past in some form or the other. 'A Mission for Every Indian' an article by Jasveer Singh mentions that Swachcha Bharat Mission is not the first cleanliness programme of the Government and had existed in the past by other names which are as under:- Likewise, option (d) Digital India is not a scheme confined to urban areas only but also extends to rural areas. Apart from it, it is not only a scheme floated with the object of development of the urban infrastructure but with a vision to transform India to a digitally empowered society, knowledge and economy. It is not a project being implemented by the Ministry of Urban Development as in case of the remaining three schemes meant of development of urban areas. This is clear from the material provided by the Commission in relation to the said scheme dated 9 February 2015. The object of the scheme and the key areas in which it operates mentioned therein is as under:- It is amply clear that Digital India is a scheme floated by the Central Government on Pan India basis keeping in mind the entire population of the country. It is not confined to urban areas alone. Though it cannot be disputed that in the process, development of infrastructure is bound to take place but that is not confined to urban areas alone. It is for the said reason that the petitioners contend that what the question mean to ask is that which one of the following schemes does not relate to the development of urban India alone. If the question is construed in the sense suggested by the candidates, then option (a) which also extends to both urban and rural areas would equally be a correct answer. For all the reasons discussed above, we are of the firm opinion that the question as framed is confusing, wrongly structured and the options given are equally incorrect. In order to rule out prejudice to any candidate, we are of the firm opinion that the question should have been deleted. Question No.83 reads thus:- 'e-Biz' refer to (a) electronic commerce (b) single window financial transactions (c) single window for business inquiries (d) single window for approach to government services
 
'e-fct^ lEcfU/kr gS % (a) bysDVªkfud okf.kT; ls (b) foŸkh; ysu&nsu gsrq ,dy }kj ¼IysVQkeZ½ ls (c) foi.ku laca/kh iwN&rkN gsrq ,dy }kj ¼IysVQkeZ½ ls (d) ljdkjh lsokvks dh igqWap gsrq ,dy }kj ¼IysVQkeZ½ ls 
 

 
	According to the Commission, the correct answer is option (d) 'single window for approach to government services', whereas according to the candidates, the correct answer is option (c) 'single window for business inquiries'. The Commission in support of option (d) has placed reliance on a communique by the Press Information Bureau, Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industry dated 19.2.2015 which states that 11 government services have been launched on e-Biz portal and mentions as under:- e-Biz portal owned by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and Industry on its website (https://www.ebiz.gov.in/guideme) introduces e-Biz as "India's one-stop-shop of convenient and efficient online Government-to-Business(GZB) service. The core theme of eBiz lies in radical shift by Government in its service approach, from being department-centric to customer-centric, in providing services to the business community. From this single website, you will be able to apply and manage all your liencses, clearances, registrations and regulatory filings. You no longer need to go from department to department or wait in line or hop multiple websites for information and services." It further states that e-Biz enables a person to : How many countries of the world have adopted compulsory voting system ? (a) 32 (b) 25 (c) 24 (d) 22
 
fo'o ds fdrus ns'kksa esa vfuok;Z ernku dh O;oLFkk ykxw gS \ (a) 32 (b) 25 (c) 24 (d) 22
 

 
	According to the Commission, none of the options are correct and consequently, the question has been deleted. The experts of the Commission were also of the opinion that the Hindi version of the question convey a different meaning and for which again there is no correct answer and thus, the question has been deleted. However, according to the candidates, the correct answer is option (a) '32'. The candidates have placed reliance on an article published in 'Civil Services Chronicle January 2015', according to which 32 countries have adopted compulsory voting, although out of these, 19 countries are such who follow the same in all their elections. In another article on 'Compulsory Voting in India' downloaded from internet by the petitioners it is stated that currently there are 32 countries with compulsory voting of which 19 pursue it through enforcement. In an article 'International IDEA' a chart of 40 countries has been given stating the year in which law relating to compulsory voting was introduced in those countries. A perusal of the said chart reveals that in some countries, the law was enforced in the past but later on it seems to have been withdrawn. Some countries enforce the law for all citizens, while in some countries, certain sections of the society are exempt from its purview. Some countries enforce the law by imposing sanctions, whereas others do not. The facts and figures in the said chart does not indicate that any of the options given are correct. The Court thus concurs with the answer given by the Commission. Question No.34 reads thus:- In which of the following districts of U.P., a 112 year old woman (Nauroji Devi) has been elected Pradhan of a Village ? (a) Mau (b) Ghazipur (c) Azamgarh (d) Jaunpur
 
mRrj izns'k ds fuEufyf[kr ftyksa esa ls fdlesa 112 o"kZ dh cqtqxZ efgyk ¼ukSjksth nsoh½ dks xzke iz/kku pquk x;k gS\ (a) eÅ (b) xkthiqj (c) vktex<+ (d) tkSuiqj
 
	According to the Commission, the correct answer is option (c) 'Azamgarh', whereas according to the petitioners, it is option (a). The Commission has placed reliance on a newspaper cutting from Amar Ujala dated 14 September 2015 which states Nauroji Devi was elected as Pradhan of Adma Mau, Block Phoolpur, District Azamgarh. Adma Mau village comes under District Azamgarh. Though strictly speaking the options given are all that of various districts, whereas the question was in relation to the village to which Nauroji Devi was elected but since the village from which she was elected is situated in district Azamgarh, the Court declines to accept the contention of the petitioners that option (a) is the correct answer. We now proceed to examine the next contention of the petitioners as regards the correctness of the decision of the Commission in awarding full marks to candidates who have exercised one of the correct choice in respect of questions, for which two options have been found to be correct. It is contended that the instructions to the candidates specifically provided that if more than one answer was marked, it would be treated as wrong answer and will not be examined. The necessary corollary of the said instruction is that each answer should have one correct answer. Thus, if two options are correct, the question itself should have been deleted. The argument is specious and has to be rejected. Normally, each question is supposed to have one correct answer and it is for the said reason that such an instruction was given to the candidates. The object is to ensure that the candidate should be sure of the choice exercised by him and should not indulge in guess work. On the other hand, the decision of the Commission to award full marks to candidates exercising choice in respect of any of the two correct answers has been taken to rule out prejudice to such candidates. It was applied uniformally to all candidates. Thus, this Court does not find any fault in the decision of the Commission taken in this regard. The other facet of the argument of the petitioners is that their valuable time was lost on account of large number of questions having been wrongly framed or on account of the fact that there was no correct answer to certain questions or in some cases, there were more than two correct answers. It is urged that on account of these mistakes, there was a lot of confusion amongst the candidates resulting in serious prejudice to them. On the other hand, the Commission submitted that this could not be a ground to grant any relief to the petitioners, as the deletion of questions or award of full marks to candidates exercising any one of the correct choice was applied uniformally to all the candidates. Indisputably, the Commission itself deleted five questions on account of various reasons, whereas in respect of two questions (Questions no.119 and 139) two options were found to be correct and thus, it decided to award full marks to candidates exercising any one of these options. Apart from the anomalies found by the Commission itself, this Court has found (i) question no.44 as having two correct options; (ii) question no.92 being defective and not having any correct option; (iii) question no.25 containing a wrong and misleading clue; and (iv) question no.66 having been wrongly structured and the options given being equally incorrect. The question which thus requires a serious consideration is the relief to which the petitioners are entitled to. In Rajesh Kumar (supra), the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the High Court in declaring the selection made on basis of incorrect answer key as invalid even in the absence of selected candidates being made party to the litigation and also approved the decision of the High Court in extending the relief even to those who have not approached the High Court by observing as under:- However, the Supreme Court did not approve of the directions given by the High Court to hold a fresh selection, rather it was laid down that in such circumstances, the most natural and logical way to correct the mistakes was to get the answer scripts re-evaluated on the basis of correct answer key. It has been observed thus:- A similar course adopted by the examining body in the case of Vikas Pratap Singh (supra) was approved but with the rider that those who had already been selected and have worked for number of years should not be ousted but shall be placed at the bottom of the seniority list. It has been brought to our notice that though the main written examination has been held but its result has not been declared so far. In view of the above, following the course adopted by the Supreme Court in the case of Rakesh Kumar (supra), we dispose of the writ petitions with the following directions: Before parting, we are constrained to make certain observations in relation to the functioning of the Commission. Concededly, the Commission is a creature of Constitution as envisaged by Article 315. It is an institution of utmost importance in a country like ours which has the highest population of young men and women in the world. These men and women must have burnt their midnight oil in an effort to get employment on coveted posts in the Provincial Services of the State. The competition is cut thrown with even a fraction of mark being decisive of the fate of the candidates. A candidate roughly got 48 seconds on an average to answer each question. Thus, time management in such a competitive examination was of considerable importance. A candidate who succeeds in attempting all questions would be in an advantageous position. In such a scenario, it is of utmost importance that questions framed are clear and unambiguous and admit of no doubt or confusion. Ideally, there should be one and only one correct answer. If the question contains a clue, it should be exact and relevant and not misleading. However, as noticed in the judgment, several questions were wrongly structured and contained more than one correct answer or contained incorrect clues or the options given were not exact. The procedure which the Commission follows in setting up the question papers is contained in the Act. Under Section 9, the Controller of Examination prepares a list of persons qualified for appointment as examiners in a particular subject. Such a list is revised every three years. The Paper Setters, Moderators and Valuers are appointed from amongst the persons included in the said list. Section 10 envisages that there shall be three different Paper Setters who shall not belong to the same place. They shall prepare three different papers. The Moderators shall thereafter moderate all the three question papers, place them in separate covers under their seal and thereafter, the Controller of Examination shall choose any one of the moderated question papers of a subject without opening the sealed covers and send it to the Press for printing. The Commission has placed on record the procedure which it follows in preparing the provisional answer key and in dealing with the objections filed against the same. The said procedure is as under:-