1. By way of present judgment, this Court shall conscientiously
adjudicate upon criminal revision petition under Section 397 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as " Cr.P.C .") filed by the
revisionists against the order dated 30/03/2024 ('hereinafter referred to as
'impugned order') passed by Ms. Alka Singh, Ld. MM (Mahila Court-03), West
District, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi, in case FIR No. 650/2019 PS Nangloi u/s 498-A / 406 / 34 IPC titled as " State Vs. Ankur Soni & Ors. " 2. Brief facts necessary for just adjudication of the present revision
petition as stated in the present revision petition are that the revisionists are the
accused in case FIR No. 650/2019 PS Nangloi u/s 498-A / 406 / 34 IPC. FIR was
registered by the complainant Barkha Verma. Revisionists are the father-in-law
and mother-in-law of the complainant. Vide impugned order, charge for the Digitally signed by VIJAY VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 3. The revisionists have challenged the impugned order on the
grounds, as mentioned in the present revision petition.
Grounds of revision- Ld. Trial Court has failed to consider the facts that the
present case is nothing but only bundle of false allegations without any
corroborative substance against the revisionists. Ld. Trial Court has ignored the
fact that revisionists are the father-in-law and mother-in-law and they never lived
with the complainant. Marriage of the complainant was solemnized with
accused Ankur Soni in a very simple manner and it was love marriage. Ld. Trial
Court has ignored the fact that the complainant has failed to make any specific
allegation against the revisionists for the offence u/s 498-A / 406 / 34 IPC. There is
no specific allegation against the revisionists in the complaint, FIR and statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. All the allegations have been made only against the accused
Ankur Soni. Allegations against the revisionists are general in nature and purpose
of allegations was to harass her husband Ankur Soni and entire family members.
Complainant has failed to disclose as to whether the revisionists were involved in
demand of dowry, cruelty and keeping her jewellery. Ld. Trial Court has wrongly
presumed and framed the charge against the revisionists. There is no allegation
against the revisionists for beating and harassing the complainant. No MLC and
medical document has been filed by the complainant. Complainant in her
complaint has specifically made the allegations that her jewellery are lying with
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 4. This Court heard the arguments on the present revision petition
advanced by Ld. Counsel for the revisionists and Ld. Addl. PP for the
State/respondent. Perused the material available on record. During the course of arguments, it was submitted by Ld. Counsel
for the revisionists that the impugned order is not interlocutory order and the
present revision petition against the impugned order is maintainable and
impugned order is liable to be set-aside on the grounds, as mentioned in the
present revision petition. On the other hand, it was submitted by Ld. Addl. PP for
the State/respondent that the Ld. Trial Court has passed the impugned order in
accordance with law and there is no merits in the present revision petition and the
same is liable to be dismissed. Counsel for the revisionists in support of his contentions has relied
upon the following case laws:- 5. By way of present revision petition, the revisionists have
challenged the order dated 30/03/2024 passed by the Ld. Trial Court. The
impugned order is reproduced as under:- 6. For the sake of ready reference, section 397 Cr.P.C. is reproduced
as under:- (2) The powers of revision conferred by sub-section
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 7. A plain reading of Section 397 Cr.P.C. makes it manifest that Section 397(1) Cr.P.C. enables the aggrieved parties to question the correctness,
legality or propriety of any finding, sentence or order recorded or passed by the
inferior court before the revisional court i.e. the High Court or the Sessions Judge
as concurrent jurisdiction is conferred on the High Court and the Sessions Judge
by the Section. Now, it is significant to note that Section 397 (2) Cr.P.C. mandates
that the power of revision conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 397 Cr.P.C.
shall not be exercised in relation to any interlocutory order in any appeal,
enquiry, trial or other proceeding. Therefore, express bar is created by the
legislation under section 397 (2) Cr.P.C. to entertain revision against an
interlocutory order. The term "interlocutory order" as mentioned in section 397 (2) Cr.P.C. denotes orders of a purely interim or temporary nature which do not
decide or touch the important rights or liabilities of the parties. An order which is
pure and simple interlocutory order, which do not decide anything finally is to be
considered as interlocutory order and no revision against that interlocutory order
is maintainable under section 397(1) Cr.P.C. in view of the express bar imposed
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 8. It was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled as " as appearing in sub-section (2) of Section 397 which bars any
 revision of such an order by the High Court. The term
 "interlocutory order" is a term of well-known legal significance
 and does not present any serious difficulty. It has been used in
 various statutes including the Code of Civil Procedure , Letters
 Patent of the High Courts and other like statutes. In Webster's
 New World Dictionary "interlocutory" has been defined as an
 order other than final decision. Decided cases have laid down
 that interlocutory orders to be appealable must be those which
 decide the rights and liabilities of the parties concerning a
 particular aspect. It seems to us that the term "interlocutory
 order" in Section 397(2) of the 1973 Code has been used in a Digitally signed by VIJAY VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: It was also held by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled as
" V.C. Shukla V. State through C.B.I." (AIR 1980 SC 962] that:- It was also held by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled as
" Poonam Chand Jain and Anr. V. Fazru " {(2004) 13 SCC 269} that:- The principles/guidelines regarding the scope of criminal revision
petition have also been laid-down by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case
titled as " Girish Kumar Suneja V. Central Bureau of Investigation " {(2017) 14
SCC 809} and it was held that :- Consequently the result of para 10 of the order passed by this
 Court is that the entitlement of the appellants to file a revision
 petition in the High Court is taken away and thereby the
 High Court is deprived of exercising the extraordinary
 discretionary power available under Section 397 Cr.P.C." It was held by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in case titled as
" Neelam Mahajan & Anr. V. The State & Ors. " {(2016) 229 DLT (CN) 29} that:- 9. By way of present revision petition, the revisionists have
challenged the impugned order dated 30/03/2024 passed by the Ld. Trial Court.
Vide impugned order dated 30/03/2024, order on charge was passed by the Ld.
Trial Court and charge was framed against the accused Rakesh Kumar and Indu
Devi. Now this Court has to see as to whether the impugned order is
interlocutory, intermediate or final order. It was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in Girish Kumar
Suneja case (supra) that order for framing of charge is an intermediate order. Hence, the present revision petition qua order on charge/framing of
charge is maintainable. Now, this Court shall discuss the merits of the present revision
petition. 10. Before proceeding further, it is relevant to mention here the
proceedings before the Ld. Trial Court. In the present case, on the complaint of the complainant, FIR No.
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 11. Before proceeding further, it is relevant to discuss the law relating
to charge/discharge. It is well settled law that at the stage of framing charge, the
allegations made in the complaint/FIR and other material relied by the police in
report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. only has to be taken into consideration taking
the evidence collected on its face value. At this stage, the Court is not expected to
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: The truthfulness, the sufficiency and acceptability
 of the material produced at the time of framing of
 a charge can be done only at the stage of trial. To
 put it more succinctly, at the stage of charge the
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 12. Now, this Court shall discuss the merits of the case. As per complaint dated 27/05/2019 of the complainant, the
marriage of the complainant was solemnized with accused Ankur Soni on
15/02/2016 and they are having a son namely Ahaan Soni and accused Ankur
Soni used to demand dowry from her and also used to beat and physically torture
her. It is also mentioned in the complaint that her father-in-law and mother-in-law
are also involved. It is also mentioned that after the one month of marriage, they
started harassing and beating her. It is also mentioned in the complaint that
accused Ankur Soni is having illicit relations with his niece Reetika and they
used to threaten the complainant and complainant and her son are having the
apprehension of their life from them. It is also mentioned in the complaint that
accused Ankur Soni is having her gold articles. It is also mentioned in the Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 13. Before proceeding further, it is relevant to discuss the case law
relating to the mentioning of names of the family members i.e. in-laws in a
criminal case arising out of a matrimonial dispute. It was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled as
" Dara Lakshmi Narayana & Ors. V. State of Telangana & Anr. " {(2024) 12 SCR
559} that :- However, in recent years, as there have been a
 notable rise in matrimonial disputes across the
 country, accompanied by growing discord and
 tension within the institution of marriage,
 consequently, there has been a growing tendency
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: 31. Further, this Court in Preeti Gupta vs. State of
 Jharkhand (2010) 7 SCC 667 held that the courts
 have to be extremely careful and cautious in
 dealing with these complaints and must take
 pragmatic realties into consideration while
 dealing with matrimonial cases. The allegations of
 harassment by the husband's close relatives who
 had been living in different cities and never visited
 or rarely visited the place where the complainant
 resided would have an entirely different
 complexion. The allegations of the complainant
 are required to be scrutinized with great care and
 circumspection." It was held by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in case titled as
" Kahkashan Kausar @ Sonam & Ors. V. State of Bihar & Ors. " {(2022) 1 SCR
558} that :- As per complaint dated 27/05/2019 of the complainant, after the
marriage, she was beaten by the accused Ankur Soni number of times and her
father-in-law and mother-in-law were also involved. In the statement u/s. 161 Cr.P.C. of the complainant, it is mentioned that her husband, father-in-law and
mother-in-law have beaten her. In the complaint dated 27/05/2019 of the
complainant, almost all the allegations were made against the accused Ankur
Soni. There is no medical document/ documentary evidence in the Trial Court
record as well as present revision petition to show that complainant was beaten
by the revisionists/accused persons. It is mentioned by the complainant in the complaint dated
 Digitally
 signed by
 VIJAY
 VIJAY SHANKAR
 SHANKAR Date: Trial Court Record be sent back alongwith the copy of this
judgment. Revision file be consigned to record room after due compliance.