> 

 

Title: Further discussion on motion regarding consideration of inflationary pressure on the Economy and its adverse impact on the common man moved by Smt. Sushma Swaraj on the 3rd August, 2010. MADAM SPEAKER: The House will now take up item No. 14 – further discussion on the motion moved by Smt. Sushma Swaraj 

 

*SHRI HSSAN KHAN ( LADAKH ): Rising is affecting people in all areas of the country including people living in the far flung hilly areas of Ladakh in Jammu & Kashmir State.  People in these areas have been worst affected by the rising prices especially Kerosene oil, cooking gas and diesel.  The UPA Government has allotted   Rs. 500 crores to Ladakh on New and renewal energy owing to its extrem weather condition but these projects are at planning stage.  People use kerosene oil and cooking gas for all types of heating purpose in this most harsh climate areas.  Increase in the prices of kerosene oil, cooking gas has made common man life miserable to meet their two ends meet.  Increase in the cost of diesel have increased cost of transportation in the vast areas far away from the cities.  Now I would request the Government to consider providing some relief to these people by way of subsidy on kerosene oil and cooking gas etc. til the new and renewable energy plants start production to meet the energy deficiency. *SHRI BADRUDDIN AJMAL ( DHUBRI ) :I am happy that the unnecessary debate over how to debate on such issue is over. I agree with the esteemed members that Indians especially the poor and fixed income groups are the worst sufferers. India has more hungry people than any other country.  Not having enough to eat is a  reality for half of India’s 1.1 billion people. It is obvious that with the current sharp surge in food prices, more and more people would join the  group of people going to bed without food. We all know it well that we have no magic wand that can bring down the prices.  There is little the Governemnt can do and not much that the opposition can suggerst. High prices are here to stay.  More than the headline inflation rate, what concerns policy makers and the common man the most is food inflation that has averaged a double-digit rate for the past year.  No matter what, it is unlikely that the trend would reverse.  There has been a structural shift because everything that goes into producing and transporting food – fuel, fertilizer, water, labour and even seeds – has become costlier.  And there has been no major technological breakthrough to cushion farmers against rising input costs. The reality is that prices will not come down and the  tragedy is that we are not doing enough to let people have more money to spend. The recession in the world economy presented us an opportunity that we chose to miss.  If we had opted to make those who were left out of economic boom of 2004-2008 lead the economic recovery, it would have been a very  different story today.  We should have directed the $20 billion fiscal stimulus towards building infrastructure, investing in all such measures that would have created new demand and broadbased growth.  But we looked the other way, mostly doing out tax concessions to shore up corporate profits, stock indices and bring some cheer to middle class that won’t last long.  In contrast, our neighbour China did something different, and smart. Beijing not only came with a much bigger stimulus package - $570 billion, or 23 times more than ours – but it spent much of this in preparing the Chinese economy for the next phase of accelerated growth.  Through 2009, China’s import of coal saw a surge that puzzled many western economists who began to ask: where is all the coke going?  Since the Chinese economy had slowed in the face of the global recession, demand for energy and therefore demand for coal should have declined. As it turns out now, a Chinese Government statement said last week, the country’s import of coal tripled to 130 million tonnes in 2009 because of fiscal stimulus measures that “pushed up demand for coking coal in steel, cement and chemical industries.” Needless to say, all the extra production of steel and cement was going into building a whole new lot of infrastructure across China even as the rest of world battled a recession and cut jobs and investment.  The result: the Chinese economy is back on a sizzling 10 per cent plus growth track. And we are struggling to stay the course with a growth rate of 8 to 8.5 per cent. India is a land of contrasts where there are some who invest lakhs and crores of rupees on an apartment or have the right to splurge in a licentious way while others are content and happy at being able to pay Rs. 25/ - for a square meal.  The satisfaction at the macro economic situation gets camouflaged with the stark fact that nearly 77 percent of our population earns an income of Rs. 20/- per day.  The inequalities in human development have an adverse impact on the lives and capabilities of the people.  The two faces of India should converse for a sustainable growth and bring about a social harmony in the country. It seems that our price control organization simply does not function.  There are price control at paper and this being evaded everyday.  Its advisers are the people who are interested in high prices and are content as they are usually in their self-complacency. Consumers are thought to have no knowledge of the affair and they are not consulted.  This type of red-tapism of the government is also responsible for high prices. To take an example a CBI enquiry has been initiated that too after consistent demands of the opposition parties in Assam on Rs. 1000 crore scam of development funds.  I am sure there are many more thousand crores of development funds are being siphoned off in many more states.  If these funds could have been utilized properly it could have definitely eased the lives of the poor. I would like to strongly link the black marketing, hoarding and corruption with increase in prices of essential commodities. Nothing much the Government is doing on this.  I would blame state Governments for this. The horading Government is doing also needs a review.  Government godowns are overlowing and food grains are getting rotten.  As on April 2010, the FCI is having 183 lakhs tones wheat in the Central pool.  Of this 80 lakhs wheat are lying in open warehouses, have got rotten. Against buffer stock requirement of 200 lac tones Government godowns have 453 lac tons as on 1st March 2010. I am pained to attract your notice the reaction of the Government of Assam.  In Assembly session (July 2009) the Food and Civil Supply Ministry of Government of Assam washed his hands off the matter of price rise.  As per the Government of Assam it was due to the cascading effect of rise in the prices of essential commodities across the country as most of the items are procured from outside the state. It seems that the Governemnt of Assam has virtually surrendered to the unscrupulous traders who are responsible for this abnormal price rise. Government has introduced the Public Distribution System (PDS) so that people can access essential commodities at the fair prices. All of us are aware that in the wake of such huge price hike an effective PDS can bring relief to both the poor and non-poor. Paradoxically, PDS in Assam is pegged with allocation less than requirement, release further less than allocation and actual  receipt further less than release.  Over and above these the incidence of corruption is also highest in Assam. An analysis of the statistical data of released by Governemnt of Assam indicates essential food times like rice is available only for 30% of ration card holder. If we add corruption in delivery, diversion and fake ration cards than actual receipt  of rice by poor through PDS  will be less than 10% of the actual requirement. Through you, I wish to strongly demand to look into this seriously and initiate appropriate action so that food meant for poor reaches poor.  Presently as per Governemnt data only 10% poor are covered under PDS network. I would like to bring to the notice of the House of an RTI application which has forced the Government of Assam to order probe into the anomalies of PDS in all 27  districts.  Over 700 cases had been registered in different districts concerning ;PDS irregularities in the past one year while 37 persons had been arrested in this connection.  Preliminary reports indicates that the amount of rice involved in the scam stood anywhere between 19 and 20 lakh tones. The  reality is that prices will not come down and the  tragedy is that we are not doing enough to let people have more money to spend. In view of the abnormal price rise and corruption ridden Public Distribution System I would demand: I would like to end with the request that all of us should act above party lines to support the people who had sent us in this August House. MADAM SPEAKER: Hon. Leader of the House. THE MINISTER OF FINANCE ( SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE ): Madam Speaker, first of all, I would like to express my regret and apology because I lost my cool and temper with one of my young colleagues, which I should not have done. But nonetheless it has happened on the floor of the House, I sincerely apologize to the House. Madam, I had the privilege of listening to 33 hon. Members who have participated in this important discussion on the motion moved by the hon. Leader of the Opposition; and in one way, all of us are party to it because it was the agreed text on which all of us -- putting together, cutting across this side or that side – decided, and its one of the objectives was, of course, to resolve the  impasse, which developed over few days where we could not find a way out. Ultimately, with the collective wisdom of the leaders representing political parties in this House, we could find a mechanism through which we have done it. It also reminded me, particularly looking at the senior  leader Advaniji; it comes to my mind  that about 25 years ago, when he was the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, we had a similar occasion when the conduct of a State Chief Minister was to be discussed on the floor of the House; and we were trying to find out through what rules we could bring it. Collectively sitting with Mr. Advaniji, the then legendary parliamentarian Mr. Bhupesh Gupta and some others, we could find a way out.  The short point which I am trying to divulge  is that sometimes, it happens; and then by our collective wisdom we find out a mechanism through which we can resolve apparently the most vexatious issues. First of all, I would like to place certain things before this august House. It is not merely to scoring debating points. The whole objective when I agreed to have the sense of the House, reflected through the observations of the Speaker. I had the intention, and I had that intention  that these important issues are to be resolved to the satisfaction of the economy, to the satisfaction of the people through our collective efforts. It is because when I talk, I keep it at the back of my mind that today the political scenario in this country is not exactly the same which was 20 years ago or 15 years ago. Today, nearly 60 per cent of the people are being administered by political parties which are not the principal parties of the coalition, that is, Indian National Congress. Seven States are ruled by the BJP Government. Bihar is ruled collectively by JDU and BJP. U.P is ruled by the BSP. Three States are ruled by Left parties. Handling the inflationary pressure and taking corrective steps to lower the adverse impact on the people, to my mind are the collective responsibility of the political leadership sitting here, sitting there and also the political leadership of the States. That is the reason when in the course of a debate when some hon. Member, if I remember correctly, perhaps, Lalu Ji suggested to the Prime Minister to call the meeting of the Chief Ministers. Before the Budget Session, we called them and it is being followed up. Public Distribution System is to be implemented in the States. Essential Commodities Act has to be implemented by the State Governments. Maintenance of essential supplies is to be implemented by the State Governments. Therefore, unless there is a coordinated effort both by the State Governments and the Central Government, I am afraid it would be difficult to address this problem and particularly, the wishes of the Members to ensure that the adverse impact of the prices can be insulated so far as the vulnerable section of the society is concerned. I will elaborate a little about the steps which we have taken and which we are going to take. But this is the first point which I would like to suggest because I would like to use this opportunity not merely to state certain facts but also to try to have some sort of understanding amongst the political spectrum, leadership so that we can achieve larger objectives for the betterment of the economy, for the improvement of the economy. Madam Speaker, the inflationary pressure is being felt in the economy for quite some time. You will recollect in the beginning of 2008, we had the problem of the pressure of international commodity prices followed by the oil prices, in the first half of 2008. Before that shock could be observed, in the later half of 2008 a minor event, sub-prime lending in some banking systems in USA sooner than later engulfed itself into a major financial crisis which compelled not only the leaders in India but all over the world to inject trillions of dollars in the form of stimulus package to ensure that further deceleration of the economic crisis does not take place. India was no exception.  We had to inject in doses fiscal stimulus to the extent of Rs.1,85,000 crore – in terms of GDP, almost 3 per cent. This had its effect. Fiscal expansion took place. Fiscal deficit increased. It went to the extent of 6.6 per cent in the year 2008-09 and 2009-10. Sushmaji was saying that my budgetary exercise has been to balance the Budget. Yes, I admit because I do agree that this level of fiscal deficit cannot be maintained, cannot be sustained over a longer period of time. Therefore, this fiscal deficit is to be addressed. But that is not the only thing. There are other ways and means which we have taken. You cannot ignore the important component in this. I am not going into the merit. But the hardcore fact today is that petroleum sector is an important revenue yielding measure. It is applicable to the States, it is applicable to the Centre. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition when she said that I have used it as a means of raising revenue. Yes, 34 per cent of the States revenue comes from the petroleum products. In absolute terms in 2009-10, Rs.72,000 crore were raised by States collectively. I am talking of 28 States. I am not going to make any discrimination as to which State has a little more and which State has a little less. Other Members have done it and all of us are fully aware of it. Collectively it is contributing about 34 per cent to the States revenue mobilisation efforts. Therefore, if I suggest that do not do it because I will not do it, I shall have to find an alternative mechanism to support them because they have to carry on the constitutional responsibilities which are vested in them by the Constitution itself. Therefore, this aspect also has to be kept in mind. I agree with you that petroleum prices should be rationalised. How could we do it? Here, I am not for scoring a debating point. You know, Advaniji knows and the Leader of the Opposition in the other House knows because I discussed this issue. Let us introduce GST, Goods and Services Taxes, because in your own manifesto you have stated that Goods and Services Taxes would be introduced. You have said that Central Sales Taxes should be abolished and Goods and Services Taxes should be around 12 to 14 per cent. Let us try to achieve that. If we can do that, then the entire spectrum of the Service Taxes, entire spectrum of the Excise Duties, entire spectrum of the VAT, will be brought under the constitutional mechanism where the scope of individual discretionary decisions could be regulated. In your manifesto correctly you have stated it. If we want to implement it, it cannot be implemented by me nor can it be implemented by you alone, unless you have 350 Members of this House, more than 127 or 128 Members of Rajya Sabha and at least 50 per cent of the States. Neither you can have it, nor can we have it alone. We shall have to do it collectively. All the 28 States have to be taken on board. It is not therefore I am saying suddenly coming out of my hat, like coming out of a magician’s hat. For four years we have been discussing this issue. The Empowered Committeeof the State Finance Ministers is meeting. They have circulated the discussion paper. That is in the domain of the public knowledge. If we can do that, then not only the petroleum products but the entire range which is covered, can be considered. It is a win-win game. I am taking this opportunity only because of this debate to say that time is running out. If we want to do the constitutional amendment, the Bill is to be introduced here, in this Session. It will have to be examined by the Standing Committee and it will have to be ratified by 15 States. All these exercises cannot be done unless we take some steps. Otherwise, it will be again delayed. Nobody knows what would be the picture because series of State elections will take place. This is one major tax reform for which I seek the cooperation of the entire House. You will have to support; the Left will have to support; Shri Mulayam Singhji and Kumari Mayawatiji will have to support; Shri Lalu Prasadji will have to support. Everyone will have to support if we want to have this major tax reform which can address the problems of the fluctuating price at least domestically. We cannot deal with the international prices. You raised a point. But, perhaps, in your over-enthusiasm, you missed it. It is true. The prices rose to as high as 124 dollars per barrel in the month of June, 2008. But after that, the prices started coming down. When the prices have started coming down, then there is no question of either imposing taxes or revising them because it was the occasion where to allow the situation to ensure. When did we withdraw the import duty? It was in the month of June, 2008. Five per cent customs duty on petroleum crude was withdrawn; excise duty at one rupee per litre was withdrawn in June. There was no question of reimposing it because I have provided the stimulus package. I have given series of tax concessions in the excise duty, in the import duties starting from December onwards. This stimulus package and its impact continued from the month of December, 2008 till February, 2010 when I partially rolled it by imposing five per cent import duty on the crude and excise duty at one rupee per litre for diesel and petrol. Therefore, this is the chronology of the events. There was no window left through which we could play. As I mentioned, I cannot blame the States for having taxes on it because this is one of their important components. If we can collectively decide, which is possible only through the institutional mechanism of GST, it will be good. Similarly, we are bringing DTC. It is not merely the majority of this House. One year ago I put it on the website of the Ministry so that all the stakeholders can participate in it. I had the privilege of receiving the comments of the BJP and many other political Parties. I have incorporated them. Again, I have revised the draft and put it on the domain for public knowledge. When I am bringing it to this House, it will be scrutinised by the Standing Committee and thereafter it will be debated by this House. Nothing can be done at the back of this House. It will have to be decided by the House itself because these are the taxation measures. The question is what we could do about the food related inflationary pressures. There are two factors here – supply side and demand side. You look at the pulses. All these figures are available as my colleague, Agriculture Minister, has stated them umpteen number of times. There is a continuous shortfall in the production of all the important pulses, sometimes it is more and sometimes it is little less. What happened? Actually during the period when we had short supply of pulses, at that particular point of time, the international prices also went reasonably high. Pulses are being produced maximum in India and also consumed maximum in India, and a little bit pulses are being produced by Myanmar, Turkey, Argentina and some other countries. It is a fact, and I have no hesitation to admit it, that long ago when the Pulse Mission Mode Approach was taken to have the breakthrough … (Interruptions) Under the Oil Mission and Pulses Mission, we could not achieve that much success which we have achieved in the production of grains - rice, wheat or even the coarse grains, or in the production of liquid milk under White Revolution. We could not achieve it. That is why, I have decided in this Budget that let us identify on the Sixtieth Year of Republic of India 60,000 pulses and edible oil villages, where the work has already started. Somebody has pointed out and rightly so – I do not deny – that I said that with the good rabi crop, I would expect to have some moderating influence in the price front. It did not happen because of the fact that most of our pulses’ production is under kharif crop and not the rabi crop. This year, I am told, substantial enhancement in the crop position has been made. The Agriculture Minister has given all the details and we are going to have that. Therefore, this year we are expecting to have more production of the pulses. Similar is the case with edible oils. These are the two commodities which are in perpetual short-supply, to the extent of about 15 per cent of total requirement. In absolute terms, about three million tonnes to four million tonnes of pulses and about a million tonne-plus of the edible oils are in short-supply. Therefore, we are making efforts to improve it so that the management goes well and the supply side improves. Now the question is about the prices. We shall have to give more prices to the farmers. If we do not give more prices to the farmers, they will not produce. It is not a populist scheme. To my mind, if we have increased the procurement price of wheat from Rs. 640 per quintal to Rs. 1,100 per quintal between 2004 and 2009, it was not done as a populist measure but to ensure that the production goes up. If we have increased the Minimum Support Price of per quintal of paddy from Rs. 560 to Rs. 1000 within a span of five years between 2004 and 2009 and if the various State Administered Prices of the sugarcane are well above the Minimum Statutory Prices, which were prescribed by this House – Rs. 129 per quintal - it is not to indulge in populism but also to ensure that there are more crops. Therefore, there would be a cost boost element in the inflationary pressure in the prices. How to ameliorate it? The schemes are there for this. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद यादव ( मधेपुरा ):मैं एक बात कहना चाहता हू कि देश में पल्सेज़ की शार्टेज आज से नहीं है, वर्षों से है। SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : Yes, correct. श्री शरद यादव : किसानों को आपने जो दिया है, वह इतना ज्यादा नहीं है कि जिस तरह का दाम बाजार बढ़ा है। बिचौलियों के खेल की बाबत भी कुछ बताइए। SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I agree to it, and there are no two opinions in it. It is because there is a big difference in the prices, which the farmers -- the farmers from the farm’s gate to the kitchen plate -- are getting. The question is how to address this difference; the question is who is to do it; and the question is what mechanism would be there. … (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR ( BANGALORE SOUTH ): The Union Government will have to do it. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : If you say that it will have to be done by the Union Government, you may have this wish. But it will have to be done collectively by the State Governments and the Union Government. … (Interruptions) SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : No. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : It is because the powers are vested in the States. The Essential Commodities Act ; hoarding; de-hoarding; and notification has been issued during your time. It was taken … (Interruptions) SHRI BASU DEB ACHARIA ( BANKURA ): Why cannot you amend the Essential Commodities Act ? … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Mr. Acharia, please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : Please, everybody cannot interrupt. I have listened to everybody with utmost patience. I have interrupted Shrimati Sushma Swaraj a couple of times. So, I will allow double the interruptions from her. But I did not interrupt anybody else. Therefore, it is not correct. ESMA is with you; the Essential Commodities Act is with you; and determining the quantity to store is vested in the State Governments. But I do not pass on the buck to them alone. I am prepared to work with them. It is easy to say Universal Public Distribution System. But before that, should we not think of the fact that today it is Targeted Public Distribution System with limited number of commodities to serve the limited number of people? Let us search our heart and analyze State after State to find out the state of affairs of the Public Distribution System, which is one of the biggest, most vital, and important instruments to ameliorate the sufferings of the people by providing subsidized food grains and subsidized essential commodities to them. If that instrument is in place, then whatever be the number -- 6.1 crore families, who are given rice at Rs. 6.40 and rice at Rs. 8, and at Rs. 3 and Rs. 2 under the Antyodaya programme -- are going to have it. If the Tendulkar Committee’s Report is accepted, it would be 8.1 crore families that will be able to have it. Therefore, this instrument is to be made effective. The Prime Minister decided to set up a Sub-Committee with the Chief Ministers plus the Planning Commission in the Conference of the Chief Ministers to revamp the Public Distribution System because State after State explained the situation prevailing there. To score a debating point, I can say that I do not agree with you. Fine, I have no problem. But if we want to address the problems; if we want to reach the people; and if we want to ameliorate their sufferings, then we shall have to take concrete steps, and revamping the Public Distribution System is one such step. I am afraid that it cannot be done by the Centre. It will have to be done collectively by the States and the Centre because this is the Constitutional scheme of things. It has been suggested, and some of the States are doing well. I am not going to say that everybody is not doing. SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : I just want to ask you why you are shifting the responsibility to the State Governments. You are shifting the responsibility to the State Governments. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : No. 

SHRI ANANTH KUMAR : I want to seek a clarification from you. My straight question to you is that between 1998 and 2004, under the Prime Ministership of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the prices of essential commodities were under check. What has happened in the last six years? Why are the prices skyrocketing? That is the question. SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I am answering your question. I have not yet completed by answer, Shri Ananth Kumar. Have a little patience. From what I am saying, you will get the answer yourselves. Yes, with a growing economy and with a higher growth, there will be inflationary pressure. You must look at the income generation of the people. During the NDA regime, there was no right to the people to get certain services backed by legal entitlement. We were accused that the Government was not sensitive. If the Government was not sensitive, the Government would not have provided the rights backed by legal enactment, entitlement backed by legal enactment, whether it is in the case of jobs for the landless rural poor people, entitlement of Right to Education at a cost of Rs. 2,31,000 crore, and the ratio of sharing between the Centre and the States being 65 : 35. These are the indications of the sensitivity of the Government. Sensitivity should not be a temporary thing. Yes, I was sensitive when my colleague and my colleague, the Petroleum Minister, decided to enhance the price of kerosene from Rs. 9 to Rs. 12. I knew there would be sufferings. I am a village boy. I studied up to Class X under a kerosene lamp. I used to commute to my school by walking, as per today’s terminology, ten kilometres every day. So, I know the life of a villager. But do not ridicule my sensitivity. When you raised it from Rs. 2 to Rs. 9, you completely forgot this sensitivity, but remember this sensitivity when it was raised from Rs. 9 to Rs. 12. I do not believe in this type of variation of sensitivity. The short point is, we shall have to do it. What is the production of our petroleum products? What is your total indigenous production? In the early 1980s, we used to have 29 million tonnes, today it has hardly been increased by four or five million tonnes. It is not available; which is not available, is not available. Any amount of debate, any amount of emotion, any amount of rhetoric cannot locate petroleum sources in this country. The answer lies somewhere, that is, we will have to reduce its use by new technology. You are talking of providing subsidies. In the Supplementary Demands, for which I will be coming to this very House tomorrow or day after, it has been circulated and you have seen it, Rs. 14,000 crore has been provided. Despite the enhancement of the prices, this year itself I am to provide Rs. 14,000 crore. A question has been raised about the profitability of the Oil Marketing Companies. True, in 2008-09, three Oil Marketing Companies had more than Rs. 4,000 crore profits, but how did this profit arise? This profit arose because the upstream Oil Marketing Company provided cross subsidy to the Oil Marketing Companies to the extent of almost Rs. 50,000 crore. The balance came from the Government subsidy. Next, Rs.1,03,000 crore from the upstream oil company and the subsidy route was given to the oil marketing companies in 2008-09. After getting Rs.1,03,000 crore they made profit otherwise there would have been a loss of Rs.99,000 crore of our public sector companies. Should I not protect the public sector companies? These are the ground realities. … (Interruptions) Let me complete… (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : अनंत कुमार जी, आप बैठ जाइए। आप बोल चुके हैं। …( व्यवधान) श्री अनंत कुमार : आप महंगाई का जस्टीफिकेशन दे रहे हैं, महंगाई का समर्थन कर रहे हैं।...( व्यवधान) श्री प्रणब मुखर्जी : पहले मेरी बात कंप्लीट होने दीजिए, उसके बाद कहिए। अध्यक्ष महोदया : अनंत कुमार जी, आप बैठ जाइए। अभी उन्हें अपनी बात पूरी करने दीजिए। …( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: Please sit down. He is not yielding. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप उनकी बात सुन लीजिए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I am answering his question. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : प्लीज शान्त रहिए। उनकी बात सुनिए। …( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : अनंत कुमार जी, आप बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I will answer your question. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Nothing will be recorded. Nothing will go on record. (Interruptions) … * 

SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I will answer his question. In fact, I am answering the earlier question. Then you put the second question. I am not yielding Shri Ananth Kumar. Please excuse me. I am not yielding. … (Interruptions) Therefore, my point is this. Shri Ananth Kumarji asked me how during the regime of the NDA, the prices were stabilized.  Yes, I do admit. What was their growth? What was the GDP growth? What was the rate of investment? I have some figures. These figures are not compiled by my Ministry. These figures are of National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), Centre for Macro Consumer Research, Report on Household Earnings and Spending. They have studied from 1985 to 2009-10 and from there, certain figures have been revealed. The total income of the household of the low income group which was in 2001-02 65.2 per cent, in 2009-10 it has come down to 41 per cent. For middle income group, in 2001-02, it was 109.2 million and it has gone up to 140.7 million. For high income group, from 13.8, it has gone up to 46.7. These are the studies conducted. I have asked my Ministry to verify the figures further. But I thought that I should share this information. That is one of the reasons why … (Interruptions) I did not interrupt you. If you do not want to listen, I have no problem. If you insist me, I will not utter a word. अध्यक्ष महोदया : बसुदेव आचार्य जी, बैठ जाइए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I am sorry. I will not. Then I am sitting down, Madam. I am completing my reply. … (Interruptions)  I will not answer. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: This is not the way. … (Interruptions) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप उनकी बात सुन लीजिए। …( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I am answering his question. Let them have cross talks. If the figures are not favourable to him, what can I do? If the expert body’s figures are such that the growth was not there at that time at the level of nine per cent, investment was not there, purchasing power was not there, merely by the rhetoric of Shri Ananth Kumarji or somebody else, we cannot engage the purchasing power of the people in the year from 1998 to 2004. If it was not there, it was not there. If it is there, it is there. As a result of that I must say that this is not the same. If you believe that this economic debate and the complex subject like inflation and price rise can simply be sorted out by the power of lung, it is not possible. The third aspect on the demand is of excess liquidity in the market. If too much money is changed for too few goods, surely there will be inflationary pressure. As I have already stated, deliberately we have injected liquidity into the system. Fiscal expansion took place. We have injected stimulus. Gradually we are rolling out things. If I want to compromise with a growth rate of five per cent or five and a half per cent, if I want to compromise on my export growth - in your time it was negative or very small in two consecutive years - I can surely control the rate of inflation. I can even adopt the mechanism which some countries did and that is to fix the prices. Prices are fixed on paper but goods are not available. Goods have evaporated. They are available in the black market. That type of situation we do not want in the country. We want that goods should be available, producers must get remunerative prices, and economy must grow. For excess liquidity, the Reserve Bank from time to time is announcing the monetary policy. The Reserve Bank has recently reduced the corridor between the repo rate and reverse repo rate. Appropriate monetary policy is mopping up the excess liquidity. But if interest rates are hiked abnormally, naturally there will be no investment, there will be no growth, and there will be no job creation. When I will come tomorrow to seek your approval for the Supplementary Demands, I will say that for the first time I am coming with a huge quantum of money as the first batch of Supplementary Demands. Why am I doing so? That is because I want that the full working season, which will start from October, is utilized for the developmental work. In the Supplementary Demands I have given Rs.14,000 crore to oil companies for subsidies. I am giving a substantial quantum of money to implement the right to education which is the objective of the UPA-II Government. That is entitlement backed by legal enactment. I have given Rs.6,000 crore for the Prime Minister’s Gram Insurance Yojana. These are developmental activities. I am giving Rs.2000 crore for IMF in order to have a larger share in the IMF. Somebody may say, what is the need of these things? Please do not forget that in the near past, not in the remote past … (Interruptions) Yes, mehangai is a problem. But at the same time availability is equally a problem. If a day comes when you will not have any money to buy petrol, to buy diesel, to buy kerosene, … (Interruptions) Therefore, it is not proper to say that we are not sensitive or we are not aware of it. We are aware of it. We are sensitive that goods must be available. 13.00 hrs. 

          At the same time, the producer of goods and services must have the incentive to produce more so that there is no short supply. To protect  the vulnerable sections of the society, we have taken certain steps. What we have done  particularly in regard to agriculture sector, specially about the food grains. I am going to inform the hon. Members. Yesterday, it was suggested that when the goods are rotting in the godowns, when the food grains are rotting in the godowns, why don’t you give it to the States? It was decided, announcement has been made – Central issue price of the food grains meant for the Public Distribution System, it is sensitivity. From 2001, we have not changed things. Whatever was the price fixed at the ration shop for APL families, for BPL families, for AAY families, it has not been changed. Today, we are in 2010. That is sensitivity. Central Issue Price of food grains meant for the Public Distribution System  - I have given statistics since 2002 – despite the increasing of the cost of procurement. That means, when you are procuring at Rs.640 per quintal, whatever was the issue price - when you are procuring at Rs.1,100 - the same issue price remains. The CIP for rice is fixed at Rs.5.65 per kg. for BPL; Rs.3 per kg. for AAY; and  for wheat, Rs.4.15 per kg. for BPL; and Rs.2 for AAY. For pulses and edible oils, the Government of India is bearing a subsidy of Rs.10 per kg. and Rs.15 per litre respectively for distribution of these items through the PDS, through the Fair Price Shops. This is the figure, and it is available right now, and it will continue to be so. Recently, the Government has also decided on providing an additional allocation of 4.57 lakh tones of food grains per month for APL families. … (Interruptions) श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव (मैनपुरी) अध्यक्ष महोदया, प्लानिंग कमीशन के उपाध्यक्ष जी उनके द्वारा अपाइंट हुए थे और उन्होंने कहा था कि किसान का जो लागत मूल्य आता है, उसके उत्पादन का मूल्य उसी के अनुसार देना चाहिए। प्लानिंग कमीशन आपके द्वारा अपाइंट किया हुआ था। किसान का 950 रुपये प्रति क्विंटल पर खर्च आया था और उस वक्त किसान को 800 रुपये प्रति क्विंटल दे रहे थे। उन्होंने रिक्मेंड किया था कि किसान को 1300 रुपये प्रति क्विंटल मिलना चाहिए। मैं उनका नाम भूल गया हूं, आपको नाम भी बता दूंगा, क्या आप उनकी सिफारिश को मानेंगे? SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : So far as the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices is concerned, every year, we have totally accepted its recommendations. Sometimes, we have included. I can assure you that whatever be the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices in regard to the Minimum Support Prices of the crop – whether wheat, jowar – it will be fully implemented. Secondly, as I have said, I am giving them 4.57 lakh tones of food grains. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Hon. Members, please sit down. Let him give the reply. SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : Another question is being discussed – what are we going to do about protecting the grains, which we are collecting from the farmers. It is true that there are no storing facilities; and as a result of that, there has been some wastage. Newspaper reports have come; I have also the figures; please do not mind my mentioning them because you have provoked me; otherwise, I would not have given these figures. … (Interruptions) श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव : हम जानना चाहते हैं कि महंगाई घटेगी या नहीं? इतना बता दें।...( व्यवधान) MADAM SPEAKER: He is not yielding. Please take your seat. Please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : During your period, from 2.18 million it went to 1,80,000 and to 1,35,000 and to 97,000. … (Interruptions) Therefore, this year also, there has been some wastage. … (Interruptions) But what are we going to do?… (Interruptions) We are going to take three steps. … (Interruptions) one step is that we are encouraging the public sector, FCI and others to go for making production. … (Interruptions) श्री शरद यादव : महोदया, बहुत उपाय किए गए हैं, सारे एक्सपलेन कर रहे हैं। आपने कई उपाय किए हैं लेकिन सवाल यह है कि महंगाई कम नहीं हो रही है, बढ़ती जा रही हे। आपने बहुत से कदम उठाए हैं लेकिन वे कारगर नहीं हो रहे हैं।...( व्यवधान) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I am answering you. Take the case of rice. Three months before, it was Rs.23, today it is Rs.22; wheat was Rs. 15, now it is Rs.14. … (Interruptions) Do not laugh. … (Interruptions) If you buy one quintal of paddy, yielding 62 kg of rice, convert it and take it to the market place, what would be the price? … (Interruptions) So far as atta is concerned, it has come down from Rs.17.5 to Rs.16. … (Interruptions) Gram dal has come down from Rs.39 to Rs.34; masur dal has come down from Rs.63 to Rs.55; sugar has come down from Rs.44 to Rs.31; mustard oil has come down from Rs.71 to Rs.68. … (Interruptions) Onion has come down from Rs.23 to Rs.14. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Please listen to him; please take your seats. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : Not only in Delhi, we have the figures of all the four metropolitan cities. … (Interruptions) You live in the make-belief world and want to have your own satisfaction; … (Interruptions) the Communist leaders are speaking; … (Interruptions) I will request them how many food marches have taken place in West Bengal which was the recurring feature during the earlier years? … (Interruptions) What have you done? … (Interruptions) What is your distribution system? … (Interruptions) It was completely destroyed. … (Interruptions) Have you ever heard that the ration dealers are surrendering them? … (Interruptions) It was a complete collapse and you are having the accusing finger. … (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Please sit down. … (Interruptions) SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : I would also like to make another submission. … (Interruptions) Please let me complete. Therefore, what we have decided is this. Earlier, when they constructed the godowns, not from the public sector, but from the private sector, they were allowed to have the guarantee for the use of seven years; we have extended it to ten years. We have provided that they will be given concessions – not concessions in terms of interest rates, but concessions in the list of priorities for lending from the banks so that in the private sector, godowns come and storing facilities are created. Similarly, in the public sector, for the 11th Five Year Plan - through FCI - we have given Rs.149 crore.   There is another proposal to create 5.25 lakh tonne of additional storage capacity in the North-Eastern States with an investment of Rs.468 crore.  The identification of the storage capacity is based on consumption requirement and consuming States and stock levels in procuring States.  Additional capacity of 1,27,127.65 tonne has been identified in fifteen States.  Therefore, the Central Warehousing Corporations, State Warehousing Corporations are going to complete these warehousing facilities.… (Interruptions) MADAM SPEAKER: Lalu ji, please sit down. SHRI PRANAB MUKHERJEE : Lastly, a new Section 35 (a)(d) has been inserted in the Income Tax Act, 1961 which will be effective from 1st April, 2010 to allow deduction of expenditure of capital nature made for construction of the godown for agricultural produce from income for tax calculation. Therefore, we have addressed the problem of providing subsidised essential commodities to the vulnerable sections of the society through the revamped Public Distribution System.  We have ensured that the excess liquidity in the market is moped up by adjusting the Repo Rates, Reverse Repo Rates and CRR.  Reserve Bank is keeping its eye constantly on that.  We have ensured that adequate production in the agriculture sector takes place.  For providing extension, we have given money in the Plan.  We have decided to extend the Green Revolution to the Eastern India. We have made provisions.  I have told that money will be provided as and when the schemes are being made.  Therefore, with these factors, I do feel, it would be possible. So far, as I have suggested, we receive cooperation from both the Houses concerned and introduce GST and bring within the purview of GST petrol and petroleum products and introduce it with their support, from April 2011 I do feel the type of variations in the petroleum prices could be taken care of.  Thank you, Madam. श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज ( विदिशा ):अध्यक्ष महोदया, चूंकि यह प्रस्ताव मेरे द्वारा प्रस्तुत किया गया था और नियमों के तहत मुझे उत्तर देने का भी अधिकार है, आपने उसी अधिकार के नाते मुझे बोलने के लिए खड़ा किया है, जिसके लिए मैं आपका धन्यवाद करती हूं। महोदया, यह प्रस्ताव हम सबने एक विशेष परिस्थिति में माना था कि इसके बाद एक सैंस ऑफ दि हाउस निकलेगी और पूरा सदन एकमत होकर कोई बात कहेगा। चूंकि पहली बार महंगाई के बारे में ऐसा हो रहा था। पूरा देश आज वित्त मंत्री के भाषण की तरफ देख रहा था कि वह अपने भाषण में कुछ राहतों का जिक्र जरूर करेंगे, कुछ उन उपायों की घोषणा करेंगे, जिन उपायों के कारण महंगाई का बोझ कम होगा। लेकिन मैं बहुत अदब के साथ कहना चाहती हूं कि वित्त मंत्री के भाषण से केवल सदन ही निराश नहीं हुआ, बल्कि वे तमाम लोग जो टी.वी. पर देख रहे थे, उन सबको निराशा हाथ लगी  है और निराशा इसलिये हाथ लगी क्योंकि वित्त मंत्री जी ने महंगाई कम करने के लिये कोई उपाय या उस में सुधार की कोई बात नहीं की है  बल्कि उन्होंने यह कहा कि इनफ्लेशन प्रेशर क्यों है, उस महंगाई को उचित ठहराते हुए उसका औचित्य पूरे सदन के सामने रखा। उनका एक थीसिस यह था कि अगर विकास दर बढ़ती है तो महंगाई बढ़ती ही है। जब मेरे साथी श्री अनंत कुमार जी ने यह बताया कि हमारे समय में 6 साल में महंगाई कैसे कम रही  तो उसके प्रत्युत्तर में वित्त मंत्री जी ने यही कहा कि तुम्हारे समय में ग्रोथ कम थी, इसलिये इनफ्लेशन कम था। ...( व्यवधान) वित्त मंत्री जी की बात सुनने के बाद मैं कहना चाहूंगी कि कल मैंने अपने भाषण में कहा था कि  सरकार असंवेदनहीन है लेकिन आज मैं कहूंगी कि यह सरकार दुविधाग्रस्त भी है। सरकार यह समझ नहीं पा रही है कि महंगाई घटानी है या नहीं? यह दुविधा वित्त मंत्री जी से ज्यादा प्रधानमंत्री जी की है क्योंकि प्रधानमंत्री जी अर्थशास्त्री हैं। अर्थशास्त्र का सिद्धान्त यह कहता है कि विकास दर महंगाई का द्योतक होती है और उनका पूरा का पूरा भाषण इसी बात को बताने के लिये था कि महंगाई विकास दर की द्योतक होती है।  इसलिये उन्हें लगता है कि जब वह  अंतर्राष्ट्रीय़ जगत में जाकर यह बताते हैं कि इंडिया की इकोनोमी पर इनफ्लेशन प्रेशर है तो लोग उनकी पीठ थपथपाते हैं और कहते हैं कि हां, आपकी इकोनोमी ग्रो कर रही है। लेकिन मैं आज माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी से और वित्त मंत्री से कहना चाहती हूं कि यह ठीक है कि महंगाई विकास दर की द्योतक होती है जो अर्थशास्त्र का सिद्धान्त है लेकिन देश में विकास दर किसी और की बढ़ रही है और महंगाई की मार किसी और पर पड़ रही है, यह तालमेल आपका अर्थशास्त्र नहीं सिखाता। यह तालमेल जो जमीन की राजनीति करते हैं, जो  गांव-गांव जाकर भटकते हैं, वे देखते हैं। ये  जो बेमेलपन है, यह केवल वही व्यक्ति देख सकता है जो  जमीन पर जाकर देख रहा है कि  एक तरफ चिमनियों के धुयें निकल रहे हैं, करोड़पति अरबपति हो रहे हैं। हिन्दुस्तान के सौ-सौ लोगों का नाम उस सूची में आ रहा है जो अरबपति हो रहे हैं लेकिन उसके बाद उन लोगों की संख्या बढ़ रही है जो गरीबी रेखा से नीचे रह रहे हैं। यह  तालमेल कैसे बैठाया जाये,यह प्रश्न आपके सामने है।  जो ग्रोथ है, हम उसे स्वीकार करते हैं लेकिन इस ग्रोथ के साथ महंगाई होगी, इसका मतलब यह नहीं कि...( व्यवधान) श्री शरद यादव :  अध्यक्ष महोदया, मैं इतना ही कहना चाहता हूं कि जो प्रणब बाबू ने कहा कि उन्होंने इसके लिये कई उपाय किये हैं, वे किस-किस तरह से पीडीएस में , नरेगा में काम कर रहे हैं लेकिन इन सब के नतीजे नहीं निकल रहे हैं जो वित्तमंत्री जी कह रहे हैं।, मैं कहना चाहता हूं कि उनमें नतीजे तो निकलने चाहिए। श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज :यही तो मैं कह रही हूं।...( व्यवधान) श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव :  ठीक है, आपकी विकास दर बढ़ी। ऐसे 125-130 परिवार हैं जो अरबपति-खरबपति हैं, उन्हें अलग कर दीजिये। उसके बाद पता लगाईये कि  विकास दर कितनी बढ़ी है और किसान और मजदूर की हालत क्या है?...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया :  मुलायम सिंह जी, आप बैठ जाइये। सुषमा जी को बोलने दीजिये। श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज : अध्यक्ष महोदया, यह जो बेमेलपन है, यह जो विषमता है, यह जो असमानता है, अभी जो भारत बंद हुआ, उसमें अरबपति या खरबपति नहीं आये, उस बंद में कोई करोड़पति य़ा लखपति भी नहीं आया और जो हजारों कमाता है, वह भी नहीं आया। उस बंद में वह व्यक्ति निकलकर रोड पर आया जिसे दो वक्त की रोटी नहीं मिलती...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष जी, सड़क पर संघर्ष करने के बहुत से माध्य़म होते हैं - धरने होते हैं, प्रदर्शन होते हैं, लोग रैलियां निकालते हैं लेकिन एक  अभूतपूर्वक भारत बंद सब से कड़ा, सब से प्रभावी माध्यम होता है। इसीलिए हमने चाहा था कि अगर सड़क पर सबसे प्रभावी माध्यम का इस्तेमाल उस आम आदमी ने किया है तो हम भी सबसे प्रभावी माध्यम के अंतर्गत यहां चर्चा करें और इसीलिए हमने एडजर्नमेंट मोशन दिया था कि वह उस आदमी के संघर्ष से मेल खा जाये जो भारत बंद में निकला था। आपने नियमों का हवाला देकर हमारा एडजर्नमेंट मोशन खारिज कर दिया। उसके बाद हमने कहा कि मतदान के तहत नियम 184 में चर्चा करेंगे। मैं आज प्रधानमंत्री जी से कहना चाहती हूं कि अगर उस पर मतदान होता तो हम मतदान में यह नहीं दिखाना चाहते थे कि सरकार के साथ कौन है या सरकार के खिलाफ कौन है। हम यह दिखाना चाहते थे कि आम आदमी के साथ कौन है और महंगाई के साथ कौन है। उस नियम 184 को भी आपने स्वीकार नहीं किया और फिर हम लोगों ने इस प्रस्ताव को स्वीकार किया। मैं कहना चाहती हूं कि जिस तरह भारत बंद में वह आदमी निकला था जो भूख से मर रहा है,...( व्यवधान) अध्यक्ष महोदया : आप लोग शांत हो जाइये। श्रीमती सुषमा स्वराज : महोदया,भारतीय जनता पार्टी ने पूरे देश में एक हस्ताक्षर अभियान चलाया था। उस पर करोड़पति ने हस्ताक्षर नहीं किये थे, उस पर लखपति ने हस्ताक्षर नहीं किये थे, उस पर हजारों कमाने वाले ने भी हस्ताक्षर नहीं किये थे, उस पर उन दस करोड़ गरीब लोगों ने हस्ताक्षर किये थे, जो भूखों मर रहे हैं। वे हस्ताक्षर हम महामहिम राष्ट्रपति जी को सौंपकर आये थे। इसीलिए हम चाहते थे कि यहां एक प्रभावी विधा के तहत चर्चा हो, लेकिन जब यह तय हुआ कि इस प्रस्ताव के तहत चर्चा होगी तो हमने वित्त मंत्री जी से कहा कि जो मोशन हमने तय किया, उसमें सरकार का आह्वान करने की बात की। उन्होंने कहा था कि मैं क्या स्टेप्स लूं? हमने कल कहा था कि आप रेवेन्यू न्यूट्रल रिजिम लाइये, वह एक स्टेप है। मैं एक और स्टेप आपको बताना चाहती हूं। आपके यहां भंडारण की बहुत बड़ी समस्या है। कल मैंने भी इसके बारे में कहा और बाकी लोगों ने भी इसके बारे में कहा कि एफसीआई के गोदामों में माल बाहर पड़ा हुआ सड़ रहा है और आप खाने वालों को, भूखे लोगों को नहीं दे रहे हैं। इसके बारे में मैं आपको एक सुझाव देना चाहती हूं। शायद प्रधानमंत्री जी को इसके बारे में पता हो, चूंकि वे पंजाब से आते हैं। एक बार पंजाब में वह सुझाव इस्तेमाल किया गया था। जिस समय मंडी में गेहूं, चावल की नयी आवक आती है, उस समय अगर आप अपने छोटे से छोटे कर्मचारी को व्हीट एडवांस या राइस एडवांस देना शुरू करें और बाद में राज्यों से भी कहें कि वे भी उन्हें व्हीट एडवांस या राइस एडवांस देना शुरू करें तो प्रधानमंत्री जी, लाखों-लाख लोग सीधे मंडी से उस माल को उठायेंगे। इससे आपको तीन फायदे होंगे- पहला यह कि लाखों-लाख घरों में खाद्य सुरक्षा निश्चित हो जायेगी। अप्रैल आते ही लोगों के घर में पूरे वर्ष का गेहूं, राशन पहुंच जायेगा। घर की गृहणी शांत हो जायेगी कि कम से कम मेरे पास गेहूं, आटा आ गया है, मैं नमक डालकर बच्चों को रोटी खिला दूंगी, लेकिन बच्चे भूखे नहीं मरेंगे। दूसरा फायदा यह होगा कि लाखो-लाख घरों में भंडारण होगा, कहीं दो क्विंटल, कहीं चार क्विंटल और कहीं छह क्विंटल और वह भंडारण उसकी देखरेख में होगा। वह गेहूं सड़ेगा नहीं। जब हम छोटे थे तो हमारे घरों में हमारे पिता आवक के आते ही गेहूं ले आते थे। हम लोग नीम की पत्तियां लगाकर उसे अपने-अपने घरों में रखते थे। एक-एक घर में चार-चार क्विंटल, छह-छह क्विंटल, आठ-आठ क्विंटल गेहूं का भंडारण हो जायेगा। इसके लिए आपको एक नया पैसा खर्च नहीं करना पड़ेगा। लाखों-लाख घरों में भंडारण होगा, लाखों-लाख घरों में खाद्य सुरक्षा होगी और जो पैसा आप एडवांस के रूप में देंगे, आप जो एफसीआई के गोदाम खरीदते हैं, उनमें भी आपका पैसा जाता है, यह लोन होगा जो उनके वेतन से कटकर आपके पास वापस आ जायेगा। आप हमारे साथ बैठिये, हम आपको ऐसे बहुत से सुझाव देंगे, जिनसे आम आदमी को राहत मिलेगी और खाद्य सुरक्षा सुनिश्चित होगी।...( व्यवधान) पैट्रोल, डीजल पर मैंने आपको बताया कि जब हमने एपीएम तोड़ा था तो उसके साथ हमने यह तय किया था कि हर सात दिन बाद हम ऑयल कंपनीज़ के साथ बैठा करेंगे। जो रेवेन्यू आता था, उसमें से आधा ऑयल कंपनी को देते थे और आधा उपभोक्ता को देते थे। रेवेन्यू न्यूट्रल रिजिम रखते थे, अगर आप इस नीयत से बैठेंगे कि देश की महंगाई कम करनी है, लोगों को राहत देनी है तो हम लोग सुझाव देंगे। आप हमारे साथ बैठिये, लेकिन सबसे बड़ा सवाल यह है कि आप दुविधा में है। आपको यह पता ही नहीं है कि महंगाई कम करनी है या नहीं करनी है। आप इधर बढ़ाते हैं और उधर कहना शुरू कर देते हैं कि हम वापस नहीं लेंगे, वापस नहीं लेंगे, कम नहीं करेंगे, कम नहीं करेंगे। मैं आज आपसे कहती हूं कि सदन की यह सैंस उभरकर आयी है और महोदया, उस सैंस में आप सरकार से कम से कम यह जरूर कहिये। आप ये तो कहेंगे कि महंगाई कम करिए, उपाय करिए, लेकिन इन्होंने जो कीमतें बढ़ाई हैं, उसमें से कम से कम थोड़ा रोलबैक करके आम आदमी को राहत दें। यह सेंस उभर कर आई है, अगर यह सेंस आप देती हैं तो मुझे लगता है कि यह चर्चा थोड़ी सार्थक हो सकेगी। MADAM SPEAKER: Hon. Members, I place the following Resolution before the House. “This House, having considered the inflationary pressure on the economy of the country, urges upon the Government to take further effective action to contain its adverse impact on the common man.” 

  

I hope the House agrees. SEVERAL HON. MEMBERS: Yes. MADAM SPEAKER: The House stands adjourned to meet again at 2.30 p.m. 

  

  

 13.27 hrs. The Lok Sabha then adjourned for Lunch till Thirty Minutes 

past Fourteen of the Clock.