PRESENT: - Thereafter, on 07.09.2020 the complainant lodged complaint with the

 Police Station Champa. The complainant visited the opposite party No.2

 Bank on 03.09.2020, 07.09.2020, 17.09.2020 but nothing was done by them.

 The complainant sent legal notice to the opposite parties on 06.10.2020

 through email and demanded the amount of Rs.1,19,250/- within 15 days,

 but the said legal notice was not replied. Reminder was also sent to the

 opposite parties and when nothing was done by them, then alleging

 deficiency in service the complaint was filed seeking directions for

 payment of wrongly deducted amount of Rs.1,19,250/- with Both Appeals Dismissed Page 3 of 9 Appeal Nos.: Bank of India & Anr. Vs. Dauram Rathore & Anr. Date of Pronouncement: compensation for mental agony Rs.20,000/- along with interest @ 12%

 p.a., Rs.20,000/- as cost of litigation and any other relief as the District

 Commission deems fit. 3. The opposite party Nos.1 & 2 in their joint written version have

 disowned their liability on the ground that whenever any payment is

 made through BHIM UPI and the amount is not credited in that account,

 then the information regarding that amount, can only be given by the

 BHIM UPI. These opposite parties did not give any toll free number to the

 complainant in writing or orally hence it is denied that the toll free

 number 18004123456 as stated in the complaint was given by the Bank

 opposite party Nos.1 & 2 to the complainant. It is further averred that in

 the complaint dated 05.09.2020 given to the Police Station Champa,

 Annexure - I, the complainant has stated that for six times for the sake of

 verification Rs.1,19,232/- vide six transactions were transferred to the

 account of one Rajesh Yadav and Lata Kerketta and mobile No.7866846228

 in the name of one Amit Gupta was given to whom, on whatsapp, Aadhar

 Number of beneficiary Rajesh Yadav 374190774484 and PAN

 No.AKDPY1268R were also sent. These all facts were also mentioned by

 the complainant himself in the letter dated 07.09.2020 given to the Bank,

 Annexure-2. The above all the activities were done by one Amit Gupta

 and the complainant shared his all the confidential information with the

 said person and on the basis of such information the amount were

 withdrawn, hence the opposite party Nos.1 & 2 are not liable for any

 transfer of amount for which the complainant himself provided

 information to a third person. The opposite party Nos.1 & 2 on the above

 grounds prayed that the complaint be dismissed against them. Both Appeals Dismissed Page 4 of 9 Appeal Nos.: Bank of India & Anr. Vs. Dauram Rathore & Anr. Date of Pronouncement: 4. The opposite party No.3 in its written version has denied all the

 allegations leveled against it and stated that the transactions made

 through BHIM application was successfully processed as per the UPI ID

 entered by the complainant and the transaction was authorized by the

 complainant by entering his UPI PIN. It has also been averred that no

 debit or credit in the Bank Account of the remitter or beneficiary is carried

 out by the NCPI and therefore the NCPI is not at all responsible for the

 any amount debited to the complainant‟s account by the opposite party

 No.2. The NCPI is engaged in operating retail payment system(s)

 pursuant to the authorization granted by the Reserve Bank of India under

 the provisions of Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 . This

 opposite party NCPI provides electronic infrastructure for processing,

 transmitting and clearing of transactions received from its participating

 member Banks and it makes its electronic payment systems for different

 modes of transactions like NFS for ATMs, AEPS, RuPay, Immediate

 Payment Service (IMPS), Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS) etc. The

 opposite party No.3 further averred that the complaint is liable to be

 dismissed against them based on the sole ground that the complainant

 himself initiated for transfer of funds using BHIM Application with UPI

 ID of the intended beneficiary and validated the payment by entering UPI

 PIN, according the amount was debited from his account and was

 credited to the account of the intended beneficiary. 5. It has specifically been averred by the opposite party No.3 that two

 factor authentication in BHIM application are a security verification

 process i.e. before initiating any transaction in BHIM application, the user

 has to confirm his/ her identity with an additional factor of authentication

 UPI PIN besides the primary factor of authentication which is the mobile Both Appeals Dismissed Page 5 of 9 Appeal Nos.: Bank of India & Anr. Vs. Dauram Rathore & Anr. Date of Pronouncement: payment transaction can be authenticated or processed through BHIM

 application. The opposite party No.3 further averred that the complainant

 had initiated transfer of funds by using BHIM application with UPI ID of

 the intended beneficiary and validated the same through UPI PIN i.e. the

 validation / authentication password selected by the complainant himself.

 In parawise reply the opposite party No.3 has disowned its liability and

 averred that the complainant himself shared confidential information

 regarding his bank account to one Amit Gupta and due to his own

 negligence the transaction in question was done for which the

 complainant is responsible. On the above grounds the opposite party No.3

 prayed that the complaint be dismissed against it. 6. Learned District Commission considering the rival contentions of

 all parties and taking into consideration the Guideline dated 06.07.2017

 issued by the Reserve Bank of India has party allowed the complainant

 and passed the impugned order with the directions as aforesaid in

 paragraph No.1. 7. We have heard arguments advanced by all parties and perused the

 record of the District Commission. 8. From the complaint given to the police dated 05.09.2020, Annexure-

 1 and letter sent to the Bank dated 07.09.2020, Annexure-2 the said

 documents are also filed by the complainant as Exhibit C-1 and Exhibit C-

 2 respectively, it is not in dispute that the complainant himself has shared

 payment credentials and confidential information to one Amit Gupta

 whose mobile number, Aadhar Number and PAN Number has also been Both Appeals Dismissed Page 6 of 9 Appeal Nos.: Bank of India & Anr. Vs. Dauram Rathore & Anr. Date of Pronouncement: mentioned in the said letters. In the complaint also the complainant has

 stated that when he made call to toll free number then for the sake of

 verification six times the amount were transferred to two accounts. In this

 situation the guideline issued by the Reserve Bank of India dated 06th July

 2017 vide RBI/2017-18/15, No.DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017-18 is an

 important document. The District Commission has also based its finding

 upon the said guideline on 'Zero Liability of a Customer' given at Sr.

 No.6. It is pertinent to mention here the relevant portion of the guideline

 which are as under : - As it is not in dispute that the complainant himself shared payment

 credentials and confidential information to someone else and then the Both Appeals Dismissed Page 7 of 9 Appeal Nos.: Bank of India & Anr. Vs. Dauram Rathore & Anr. Date of Pronouncement: respondent /complainant has negligently shared the payment credentials

 to some miscreant and eased him to do the transfer of money through UPI

 or in his own way whatever he wanted to do. 9. Learned District Commission has overlooked this fact and mis-

 interpretated the document Exhibit C-1 & C-2 filed by the complainant

 himself and has also relied on the irrelevant guideline given at Sr. No.6

 under '(a) Zero Liability of a Customer' which is not applicable in this

 case as the instant case is not a case of unauthorized transaction. In fact

 the guidelines given „(b) Limited Liability of Customer' at Sr. No.7 (i)

 under of the RBI guideline dated 6th July 2017 is applicable in the facts of

 the present case, which talks about the negligence of the customer in

 sharing payment credentials and according to which the customer will

 have to bear the entire loss until he reports the unauthorized transaction

 to the Bank and for the loss occurred after reporting of the unauthorized

 transaction, the Bank is made liable. In this case the fact is nothing of that

 sort that any transfer of amount was made after intimation to the Bank.

 This fact was specifically asked by this Commission to the learned counsel

 for the complainant that whether any amount was transferred after giving

 written intimation to the Bank. The learned counsel submitted that after

 giving written intimation there was no unauthorized transfer from the

 account of the complainant. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of

 the case we do not find any negligence or deficiency in service on the part

 of the opposite party Nos.1 & 2 Bank. 10. So far as the role of opposite party No.3 in the transaction in

 question is concerned, it has only provided a medium for such transaction Both Appeals Dismissed Page 8 of 9 Appeal Nos.: Bank of India & Anr. Vs. Dauram Rathore & Anr. Date of Pronouncement: and without initiation of transaction by mobile number registered for UPI

 and thereafter entering the UPI PIN it is not possible for anyone to do

 successful transaction and if the transaction was initiated by the registered

 mobile number for UPI transaction and the UPI PIN was entered correctly

 then there was no occasion for the opposite party No.3 to stop the

 transaction. On the contrary, it was the complainant who negligently

 shared payment credentials to some unknown miscreant, who by using

 such details transferred amount in question to the account of someone else

 in the above set of facts the opposite party No.3 cannot be faulted at and it

 cannot be concluded that any deficiency in service was committed by the

 opposite party No.3. Thus, learned District Commission has erred in

 holding the opposite parties deficient in service and has also made a

 wrong interpretation of the guideline of RBI. 11. Therefore, with the foregoing discussion, we allow both these

 appeals, setting aside the impugned order. The complaint of the

 complainant stands dismissed accordingly. No order as to cost. Original of

 this order be kept in the record of Appeal No. FA/21/106 and a certified

 copy thereof be placed in the record of Appeal No. FA/21/113.