An overview of recent news related to Aadhaar, which points towards the increase in government schemes being linked to the scheme, and issues faced by citizens:

Only 6.2 crore PAN cards have been linked to the respective Aadhaar accounts so far

June 6, 2017: Following the Indian government’s direction to citizens to link their permanent account numbers (PAN) with Aadhaar accounts, so far only 6.2 crore PAN cards have been linked with the respective Aadhaar accounts . The government had mentioned that PAN cards not linked with Aadhaar will eventually become invalid and not accepted as an identification. Note that in the previous fiscal year 5.2 crore people had filed an income tax return. Read the Hindustan Times report here .

Deadline for submitting Aadhaar details to EPFO extended to June 30, 2017

June 6, 2017: PTI reports that the deadline for submitting Aadhaar details to the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has been extended to June 30, 2017 . The original deadline was April 30, 2017. However, in case of the northeast states the deadline is now September 30, 2017, instead of the original October 1, 2017.

Two persons arrested for running a fake Aadhaar card racket

June 5, 2017: Two persons have been arrested in Delhi for allegedly running a fake Aadhaar card racket. UIDAI’s deputy director, Arun Singh had filed a complaint based on which this arrest was made. Apparently, they used to contact women and elderly citizens with the offer of getting their Aadhaar cards made, and later delivered fake Aadhaar cards to them. More on this here .

TISS students’ body boycott paying fees to protest against mandatory Aadhaar card submission order

June 6, 2017: TheWire.in reports that students across all four campuses of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) have decided to boycott paying fees, to protest against the mandatory order for students to upload a digital copy of their Aadhaar cards by June 8, 2017 in order to continue the programme in the next semester. Among other issues with this order highlighted by the TISS students coordination committee is a concern “about their right to privacy being violated.”

Identical Aadhaar cards issued due to clerical error leads to security guard losing access to LPG subsidy

June 5, 2017: The Times of India reports that a security guard in Mussoorie, Ramesh Panwar, and a junior engineer in the Public Works Department, Himanshu Saxena, had been issued identical Aadhaar card numbers, which has resulted in Panwar no longer receiving the benefits linked to Aadhaar such as LPG subsidy. Apparently, both these gentlemen had visited the local Aadhaar enrollment centre on the same day in 2013, and due to a clerical error Panwar’s fingerprints were recorded in Saxena’s profile. Panwar was issued an Aadhaar card right away, but Saxena had to wait three years. However, when he did receive his Aadhaar card, Panwar’s card became invalid.

Aadhaar made mandatory for Kerosene subsidy and Atal Pension Yojana

June 4, 2017: To enroll for kerosene subsidy or subscribe to the Atal Pension Yojana one will now have to furnish their Aadhaar cards. The last late to enroll for kerosene subsidy in September 30, 2017, while the deadline for the pension scheme is June 15, 2017. More in The Hindu .

Aadhaar enrollement hasn’t yet resumed in Jammu & Kashmir

June 7, 2017: Over six months have passed since the Indian government had shut down enrollment centres in J&K, but the state government hasn’t been able to finalize standard operating procedures with UIDAI and resume the registration process. Around 33% of the state’s population haven’t yet registered for Aadhaar. More on this here .

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event