SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Father received a scam call from ( probably ) Pakistan....
DATE: 2024-02-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ajr4cx/father_received_a_scam_call_from_probably_pakistan/

--- POST TEXT ---

Tl;dr : I ( 18M ) am from Thane ( near Mumbai ) and my father got a scam call from the Pakistan ( probably ) that a rape case has been filed against me and that 4 other people were arrested and i was gonna get arrested too. 
So this story starts on 4th February 2024, when it was my friends birthday. So I went to my friends place on 4th Feb at around 8:30 PM with another friend ( total 3 ) and came back home directly from my friends home at 12:30 AM. 

So the next morning ( 5th Feb ) i got a call from my father at 10 AM ( I was sleeping and he was at his office ) asking what did i do last night, so I told him that i went to my friends home, bought him bday cake and ate dinner, then i asked him why are you asking me now as i told him yesterday only, then he told me that a police complaint has been filed against me. I was like OK, maybe i jumped a signal yesterday ( I went their with my scooty ) and my father also didn't say anything ( he seemed chill ) just hanged up the phone, then i again went to sleep after telling my mom that a police complaint has been filed against me. She then called my father again asking what happened and then he told her that an SHO called my father and asked that did your son went out yesterday night ( he didnt told the specific place where i went) and told him that a rape case has been filed against me and told him that he arrested 4 people and now he is gonna arrest me too and then the SHO abruptly hanged up the phone saying he is busy. My father started to call him furiously again and again and after maybe 10 calls he picked up the phone and my father asked him to tell my name as he arrested those so called 4 friends of mine, he didnt say anything and was trying to make excuses and my father also asked him from which police station he is talking from but he kept ignoring and said he is busy and maybe he called a wrong number and my father got suspicious of him as the scammer was asking again and again where my fathers office is but my father didnt tell him and he hanged up the phone again. Then my father again called him after sometime and asked him the same things again and told him that he is going to SP office and then he told him that he called a wrong number and it confirmed my fathers doubt that its a scam call, then he called my mom telling her that it was a wrong number. Then I and especially my Mom got relieved about it. 

When my father came back from office, I took his phone to see the number, i saw that the scammer called him via whatsapp and then i saw the profile pic and it was of a police man which was hella suspicious and then i saw the code +92 ( if someone who doesnt know, its a country code of Pakistan ) 

So yeah, that was the incident that happened and scared the life out of my parents but not that much from me because we were only 3 friends including me, not 5 and also I havent properly interacted with any girl since 2020 COVID lock down and me and my family doesnt even have any enemies and i knew from the starting that it was a scam to threaten us and extort money but i was somewhat scared that if it maybe true then i am fucked by judiciary and police but after getting confirmation that it was a fake call, i was more scared of how easily they can know if someone went outside. 

So yeah, this can happen to anyone so beware and do not panic in these situations and ask them some really tough questions as they dont often do research well and dont give in to the their threats. 

Ik it became long, but if you read till here then Thank you and do raise awareness about these things. 

( If anyone is interested, I can share the number )