I got message from sr. Hr. Of Wipro of Mr. Anuj, .+[protected] come for interview on Unit no. B01- 48, Sector 3, Next to Lenscart Showroom, Ghansoli (West), Navi Mumbai. --- 'First message ' : Hi Preeti! I'm senior HR from *INFOSYS.* Are you looking for a Job in Back Office Executive? 'Second message' : *REMINDER 🎗️* Hi Dear, Today's your interview is scheduled for Back office in Ghansoli for *INFOSYS.* *Don't miss this chance to work with INFOSYS (Good opportunity/limited seats)* Call me once you reached ghansoli station. *Refrence - HR ANUJ* ------ For the same before going there Mr. Gaurav called me +[protected]. for the confirmation of this interview. I went that office / gala on the ground floor, and i ment They (Mr. Gaurav and Mr. Ganesh / Ms. Divya) also promised me for the job of Wipro or Infosys back office (no voice process). They took 2500 registration fee for this. Mr Gaurav told one lady Ms. Divya ( they told me she is direct employee of Wipro Hr department) to taken my interview and typing test. In that test my typing speed is more than 30 but they people said that it's very low/poor. I have 18 years experience, so I was surprised. Gaurav and Ganesh said you have to attend an online pre joining training session of 3 hours for which you need to pay 2000. That training was really useless. Then Gaurav said that I need to complete voice process training for 1 month at Thane, Majiwada Calling process Center. *ADDRESS : * *Eureka outsourcing solution* 1st floor, highstreet mall, kapurbawdi, majiwada Thane west. *MEET : HR Manisha mam. I asked him - why I need to take training for this process? I don't want to work on the voice process anymore. Gaurav said that you have to complete this then meet me, so after completing it Gaurav will give a job in Wipro/ Infosys KYC documents non voice process senior level at back office and also he told me to don't tell anyone there that you have paid money for this job. I went to that center.. they people told me your age is high, So Gaurav sent me to another voice center for training, opposite to Cinewonder mall, thane west. Connections Direct India Pvt Ltd, 1st floor, MBC center, Kapurbavdi, Ghodbandar rd, Opposite Cinewonder mall, Thane-West, 400 607 HR Name : Sanjana Contact No. : [protected]/ [protected] (Call or Whatsapp) Interview Timing : 10am to 3pm Only Carry your resume. For Company details visit on: www.connectionsdirect.in Meet brijesh sir and divya mam There's was so many candidates who came from Gaurav. out of somebody who wants job in an account/ back office/ data entry operator/ Mis executive.. but Gaurav send them all here to take that voice process training. Here is one more fraud guy available named Mr. Brijesh [protected] . He told us only the voice process is everywhere. For this process they took a computer test.. at that time I met with Mr. Ali.. he saw my cv/ resume n asked me why are you coming here for this kind of voice process job? Your previous job experiences are too good. He said you can trust me I don't say anything to anybody, that's why I trust him and said all things whatever happened to me, so he got angry on Brijesh and asked him.about this matter, but now I let know it was not seriously... it's just to show me...because of i told all things to Mr. Ali and Ali scolded to Brijesh, Brijesh called to Gaurav about what I told to. Mr. Ali everything about money taken ... suddenly Gaurav called me and scolded me that why told you to Ali? I told you to not say anything about that money, then why you told all things there...etc.. Then he gave me the contact number of another guy Mr. Manav +[protected] and promised me that he would give you work from home, for that he told me to arrange a laptop on rent. I paid rent for my laptop and contacted that person but that guy didn't pick up my call anymore. Because they also previously cheated regarding the job process... By promising wfh.. but the number given of that person is not attending call at all. Few month later I received the same job offering a message with the same address from Mr. Suraj. I explained to him all things that happened to me but he lied that he didn't recognise Mr. Ganesh, Brijesh and Gaurav. Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)