On (May 7) at 4.44pm, a person named(Amit kumar) called me and told that, i am from shine.com. He said that your resume has been shortlisted from company named 'TECH MAHINDRA' and also told that you will have an interview with the company HR by now and you will receive offer letter immediately and also told that the payment for interview+ Document verification will be Rs.3000+Rs.8885(He did not said initially, but said amount to be paid through one by one in mail as well as in phone call) and it must be deposited in shine account, and the total amount will be refunded today itself, as soon as all formalities been over, he said in mail as well as in phone call. I asked him what is the logic, 'I have to pay now and again you will be refunded', for that you can offer free to me, ... He says that this is for generating interview ID and also kidding me with an example story that "if you are paying train ticket in IRCTC and afterwards cancel means, you are getting cancelled fees return to your account", samewise this too he says... But he asks to me whether you are seeking job and in which domain, as in general what all candidates answer for this question, i too answered this and the actual fact what it is was, while i am in answering time and in side by side he himself types, for sending me through mail all details(but i did not say my mail id, ...he himself correctly sended to me) and saying Tech Mahindra has selected your resume.(but this amit kumar, correctly says my HSC and UG percentages, while in a call ) I also told him that Tech Mahindra with formal examination round only they will be selecting employees, then why you calling to me and informing this...Fot that he says again that, TechMahindra has selected your resume and they do not direct call to the candidates, so i am informing it to you(he says)... and also i asked him is that genuine and official, he says 'Yes" for that... At First i didn't believe it and I said to him that i didn't register account in shine.com and i didn't send my resume to anyone or by personally to Tech Mahindra.Then how did you call me without any source, i asked to him. For that he said, see i am contacting only through ([protected]@shine-recruitments.com) mail id only and not in gmail-id and the hr mail id from tech mahindra will be ([protected]@techmahindra.com), he said...and also provided me account number in the name of shine(he said official account of shine)... And after that I called to shine.com as well as Tech Mahindra(chennai), about these above said details, but they said its all scam... After sudden drop of calls from them, I called back to this Amit kumar, the number becomes switched off.Next i confirmed about these, he did scam on me. I also mailed to him, ('that you are fraudster, you will be caught by authorities, refund my money')...but no reply from him. and next i called back next morning, but again he is asking additional money. I have also screenshotted the mail i received from that person (please refer below) and am also attaching the account number that he mentioned to me, Agency number and hr no.(vignesh) as i received from him (all given below) and the agency name as he said was AMIT KUMAR . 1st mail i received from him was: image.png image.png 2nd mail i received from him was: image.png image.png 3rd mail i received from him was : image.png image.png 4th mail i received from him was: image.png image.png The provided account number by him is: Account Name : Shine Account No : [protected] IFSC Code : BARB0VASUND The call number i received was from this particular numbers: [protected] - Amit kumar [protected] Even on (May 15) he is making call to me by giving false allegation that your total amount(Rs.11, 885) will be refunded but you need to pay Rs.1, 115 for cancellation charge or else your 11, 885 money is lossed, he says…. and after that again, I am saying to him that your are 'fraudster man, i will complaint to cbi/cybercrime/police officials', if not refunded my amount..…...but he didn’t hear what I say, he is in need of money only again….. These scams involve unscrupulous people misrepresenting themselves as being associated with a particular company to extract money or personal information from unsuspecting job seekers.These kind of people will be changing their numbers and account numbers regularly to loot the candidates around the country. Please take action on him as he is doing fraud related activities, brain washing the candidates, spamming with company domain mail-ids, respective company logos, etc. and these like kind of people has looted to many candidates also i think, as i seen these type of mails in various social medias. The transactions done on this account number is total of Rs.11, 885 in three transactions each of 3000, 4500, 4385 on may 7. I have also forwarded all these details to shine.com Shine.com said in their reply mail that, to complaint to nearby cybercell/police against that concerned person and approach, my side bank to get reversal and file dispute form / charge dispute form / cardholder dispute form/ transaction dispute form. My money( Rs.11, 885 ) has been alleged, looted to pay by him and deducted to that account... Respected Sir/Madam, Please help me in this financial concern to revert my balance to my account from him. With a goodwill hope and with positive reply, i am waiting to hear back from you Respected Sir/Madam... THANK YOU Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (1)