A man in North Carolina has been arrested for conspiracy to commit wire fraud by creating automated bots and streaming AI-generated songs on streaming platforms. The accused, Michael Smith, fraudulently obtained more than $10 million in royalty payments from platforms such as Amazon Music, Apple Music, Spotify, and YouTube Music. He collaborated with an AI-company to create a large music catalogue the bots could stream to create large amounts of revenue, demonstrating a new method of using AI to commit fraud.

Two entities, Performance Rights Organizations (PROs) and Mechanical Licensing Collective (MLC), facilitate compensation for musicians.Streaming platforms pay musicians a certain percentage of their revenues called the Revenue Pool. These platforms pay PROs and MLCs a percentage of their revenue, for the right to publicly perform songs (performance royalties) and the right to digitally reproduce and distribute songs (digital mechanical royalties) respectively. Further, it shares data on streaming activity.  PROS and MLC then allocate and disperse payments from the Revenue Pool to the Songwriters whose songs were streamed during the same period that the Streaming Platforms earned the revenue.

Smith misled these organisations into believing that he was a legitimate artist that earned royalties. The lawsuit states, “streaming fraud diverts funds from Songwriters whose songs were legitimately streamed by real consumers to those who use automation to falsely create the appearance of legitimate streaming.” Since, revenue is percentage based, Smith acquired funds that could have been paid to legitimate Songwriters and Artists

Smith created automated programs that could stream music at an inflated pace from 2017 to 2022. He bought thousands of email accounts to create and register the Bot Accounts. The accounts often used fictitious identities. In order, to increase the speed of the fraud he paid individuals located abroad and in the US to do the data entry work of signing up for the Bot – Accounts. These accounts used “family plans” on the Streaming Platforms. This is because the plans are the most economical way to purchase multiple accounts on the Streaming Platforms, as they typically cost less per user than individual plans. He paid these accounts and sustained the fraud through the revenue he earned from these streams.

He then programmed these bots to continuously stream songs. He used cloud computer services so that he could use many virtual computers at the same time and stream the music on each virtual computer. He purchased-and subsequently modified-“macros,” or small pieces of computer code that automatically continuously played the music for him.

Allegedly, at the height of the scheme Smith used over a thousand bot accounts simultaneously to artificially boost streams of his music across the Streaming Platforms. He used to VPN to conceal the fact that the Bot Accounts were all operating from his residence.

He also denied allegations of fraud when confronted by streaming platforms, the PROs and MLC. Smith also attempted to sell his fraudulent streaming scheme as a service, in which other musicians would pay/share royalties him for streams he would fraudulently generate.

Smith found that his scheme did not have access to massive volume of songs required to evade detection and succeed on a large scale. He initially streamed his own limited catalog of music. However, that did not generate enough revenue and could raise suspicions.

In 2018, Smith began working with the Chief Executive Officer of an AI music company and a music promoter to create hundreds of thousands of songs using artificial intelligence. The promoter, the CEO and Smith entered into a Master Services Agreement” wherein the company would provide Smith with between 1,000 to 10,000 songs each month which he could fraudulently stream.

Smith would have full ownership of the intellectual property rights in the songs. In turn, he would provide the AI company metadata such as the song and artist names to attach to the songs and to pay them $2,000 or 15% of the streaming revenue each month.

United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York said that wire fraud conspiracy carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison, wire fraud carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison; and money laundering conspiracy carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. Smith’s sentence will be determined by a judge.

Multiple players in the music industry have raised concerns about AI-generated music, primarily with regards to AI. The music labels UMG, Warner Brothers Music and Sony Music had filed complaints against music companies Suno and Udio AI for copyright infringement and using their music to train their AI models. Universal Music Group (UMG) has asked streaming services like Spotify and Apple to block AI services from using melodies and lyrics from copyrighted songs.

A letter from 200 musicians, under the banner of the Artist Rights Alliance also called upon AI developers, companies, platforms, and other stakeholders to “cease the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to infringe upon and devalue the rights of human artists.” It stated that some of the biggest and most powerful companies were using artists’ works to train AI models “without permission.” It noted that this aimed at replacing the work of human artists and substantially diluted the royalty pools paid to artists.

However, in its response to copyright infringement allegations Suno and Udio AI said that record labels were “misusing their aggregated copyrights to gain unfair advantage in the marketplace, well beyond what copyright law itself allows.” They said that music labels were leveraging their “exclusive rights under copyright law to strong-arm music users into categorically avoiding artificial intelligence products” which in turn reduced competition.

Also Read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event