Law enforcement agencies appear to be taking privacy safeguards seriously – of the Jagannath temple in Puri, Odisha at least. So much so that officers arrested a Kolkata-based YouTuber for flying a drone over the temple without permission, Odisha Bytes reported on January 18, 2023.

According to the police, YouTuber Animesh Chakraborty’s move to fly a drone with a high-definition camera came to light after he uploaded a nearly six-minute video covering aerial views of the temple on social media. A police team from Odisha then arrested Chakraborty from Barrackpore in Kolkata.

The team from Puri Police led by City DSP KK Hariprasad had been tracking his movements for five days before arresting him. Meanwhile, the YouTuber thanked he Odisha Police in his Facebook post highlighting the video.

YouTuber apologises for ‘unintentional’ offence: Chakraborty apologised for taking a video of the temple without permission and said that it was “unintentional.” In a YouTube post, he said he was unaware about the temple being a ‘no-fly zone’ and had very little time to take the video.

Why it matters: It’s interesting that both the Puri and Kolkata police have gone to such lengths to protect the rights of a temple because police seldom seem to extend the same sentiment for people’s digital rights. For example, a drone surveillance to record the daily activities of city residents seems like a much more severe instance of rights violations. Yet, in Lucknow, the concept was not only allowed but built into the Safe City Project in the name of security. Similarly, Chennai police is pushing through a megacity policing project that is likely to hinder people’s privacy in the name of maintaining “law and order.” Does religion trump people’s basic rights in the eyes of the Indian government?

What is the Lucknow Safe City project? Introduced around 2021, the Lucknow Safe City project introduced drone surveillance over the rooftops and terraces of city residents to “combat crimes against women. The tender called the drone monitoring as an act that will deter “unscrupulous elements during challenging law and order situations” including rallies and rasta roko – an odd statement considering such activities are well within an Indian citizens’ right to dissent.

Chennai on its way to become a surveillance city? Readers may be surprised to know that discussion of introducing drones, facial recognition and similar surveillance technologies in the city have been going on since 2015 . After more than five years of deliberations, residents are now reporting incidents of having their face forcibly scanned by police. CCTVs are abundant in the metropolis with boards stating the presence of a CCTV camera as the only privacy safeguard. Now, the latest development is that people driving vehicles may soon be tracked to ensure prevention of vehicle theft. As per the megacity tender, the next step will be to introduce a drone unit to monitor the area. With such ideas becoming popular among law enforcement, the Puri police’s move to arrest Chakraborty reminds one of the pot calling the kettle black.

In both cases of city surveillance and in Chakraborty’s case, the police seem to have taken excessive measures — not to defend the public but the institution. It is worth asking the state government why it considers that temples should be devoid of any sort of drones, but welcomes the idea of drone surveillance in the hands of the police.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event