1. This appeal u/s. 29 of the Protection of Women from
 Domestic Violence Act is directed against the impugned
 judgment dated 27.05.2025 passed by the court of Ms.
 Sonika, Ld. JMFC (Mahila Court-02), North-East District,
 Karkardooma Courts, Delhi in CT Case No. 700/2019 U/s.
 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence
 Act (herein after referred to as the DV Act ), vide which,
 the application/petition of the appellant was dismissed. 2. Brief facts of the case as alleged by the appellant (in
 her complaint under the DV Act ) are that the marriage of
 the petitioner (appellant no.1 herein) and the respondent
 no.1 took place on 08.12.2008, according to Hindu rites
 and ceremonies at Delhi. In the marriage, the father of the
 petitioner gave all the household articles to the
 respondents beyond his capacity as per demand of
 respondents including the jewellery and cash of Rs.
 51,000/-. After the marriage, the petitioner started residing
 with respondent no. 1 in the matrimonial house. 3. It was also alleged that after some days of the
 marriage, the respondent no. 1 took all the jewellery
 articles from the petitioner and handed over the same to

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. his mother (respondent no. 3) on pretext of keeping the
 same in safe custody. On 10.12.2008, the respondent no. 1
 slapped the petitioner and started taunting the petitioner
 for bringing less dowry. Even thereafter, the respondent
 no. 1 again harassed the petitioner at the instance of
 remaining respondents. The father-in-law (respondent no. 2) and mother-in-law (respondent no. 3) of the petitioner
 also used to taunt her and respondent no. 3 used to demand
 gold chain and gold ring from the petitioner and all the
 respondents used to harass the petitioner for the said
 demands. 4. It was also alleged that after the marriage, the
 petitioner (appellant no.1 herein) also found that her
 husband (respondent no. 1) was a habitual drinker and
 after consuming liquor, he used to misbehave and beat the
 petitioner on regular basis. It was also alleged that finding
 no option, the petitioner filed a petition u/s 125 CrPC
 against, however, the same was withdrawn on account of
 settlement. Even after the compromise, the respondents did
 not mend their way and within 2 months, the respondent
 no.1 left the petitioner (appellant no.1 herein) and her
 daughter (appellant no.2 herein) and thereafter, the
 petitioner (appellant no.1 herein) started residing at her
 parental home. 5. It was also alleged that in December 2018, the

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. respondent no. 1 and his father (respondent no. 2) came to
 parental home of the petitioner (appellant no.1 herein) and
 asked her to come for a family function to be held on
 11.12.2018 and also asked Rs.50,000/- and threatened the
 petitioner that if the same was not paid, the respondent no.
 1 shall solemnize a second marriage. The father of
 petitioner arranged the amount of Rs. 50,000/- and handed
 over the same to respondent no. 2. Thereafter, when the
 petitioner returned to the matrimonial house, she was
 further harassed by the respondents and on the next date,
 the respondent no. 1 dropped the petitioner at her parental
 home. Since then, the petitioner is residing separately
 alongwith her minor daughter. 6. It was also alleged that since, the respondent no. 1
 alongwith the other respondents harassed and threatened
 the petitioner, the petitioner filed the petition/application
 u/s. 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic
 Violence, Act for seeking protection order, residence right,
 monetary relief including maintenance and compensation
 from respondents before the Ld. Trial Court. Vide detailed
 judgment dated 27.05.2025, the Ld. Trial Court was
 pleased to dismiss the said petition. 7. Feeling aggrieved with the impugned judgment
 dated 27.05.2025, the present appeal has been filed on
 behalf of the appellants alongwith an application u/s. 5 of

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. Limitation Act for condonation of delay in filing the
 present appeal. 8. The notice of the application u/s. 5 of Limitation Act
 was issued to the non-applicants and on completion of
 service of notice, respondent no. 1 had appeared with his
 counsel. 9. After hearing both the parties and in view of the no
 objection by the Ld. Counsel for the respondent, the
 application u/s. 5 of Limitation Act was allowed, subject to
 cost of Rs.1000/- to be paid to the respondent. 10. I have heard the Ld. Counsel for the appellant, Ld.
 Counsel for the respondent and perused the record of the
 Ld. Trial Court. 11. Ld. Counsel for the appellant submitted that the
 present appeal has been filed against the impugned
 judgment dated 27.05.2025, passed by Ld. Trial Court,
 whereby the Ld. Trial Court was pleased to dismiss the
 application u/s. 12 of the Protection of Women from
 Domestic Violence Act, 2005 filed by the appellant no. 1
 herein. 12. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that
 the impugned order under appeal is against the settled
 principles of law, without proper application of mind and
 without appreciating the material available on record and
 also without considering the facts of the case. Ld. Counsel

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. also submitted that the Ld. Trial Court has committed the
 grave error in not appreciating the facts and circumstances
 of the present matter correctly and properly and passed the
 impugned order by putting aside all the cannons of legal
 jurisprudence. 13. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that
 the Ld. Trial Court failed to appreciate the cumulative
 effect of the domestic violence suffered by the appellant
 and disregarded the overarching pattern of harassment,
 cruelty and financial deprivation suffered by the appellant.
 Even, the Ld. Trial Court failed to consider that domestic
 violence often occurs within the confines of a home,
 leaving little scope for independent witnesses or
 immediate police complaints, especially for a victim who
 may be emotionally vulnerable. 14. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that
 the Ld. Trial Court adopted an overly strict and hyper-
 technical approach to the evidence, leading to miscarriage
 of justice. The Ld. Trial Court erroneously concluded that
 the appellant did not suffer domestic violence merely
 because no PCR call or police complaint or MLC was
 filed. However, it is a settled position of law that the
 absence of a police complaint or medical report is not, by
 itself, a ground to dismiss a domestic violence petition.
 Many victims of domestic violence hesitate to approach

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. the police due to fear, social stigma, or a desire to preserve
 the marriage. The PWDV Act provides a civil remedy for
 such situations. 15. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that
 the appellant's decision not to initiate a police complaint
 under Section 498A IPC, or pursue criminal proceedings,
 was a conscious effort driven by her earnest desire to
 preserve her matrimonial life and secure the future well-
 being of her children. Similarly, the withdrawal of the
 prior petition under Section 125 Cr.P.C. on 20.08.2014, as
 recorded in the compromise before the Counseling Cell of
 the Family Court, was a testament to the appellant's
 persistent attempts at reconciliation and her unwavering
 commitment to make the marriage work for the sake of her
 family. 16. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that
 the impugned judgment appears to have selectively
 focused on the petitioner's alleged inconsistencies, while
 overlooking or downplaying the respondent's own glaring
 contradictions during cross-examination (e.g., regarding
 his income, employment, property, withdrawal of funds,
 purpose of FD). These contradictions should have led the
 court to draw an adverse inference against the respondent's
 credibility. Thus, the Ld. Trial Court erred in discrediting
 the appellant's harassment. Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. 17. Ld. Counsel for the appellant further submitted that
 the Ld. Trial Court further overlooked a crucial piece of
 evidence indicating pre-existing marital discord and the
 respondent's acknowledgment of his maintenance liability.
 The respondent's admission regarding a previous
 compromise in a petition u/s. 125 Cr.PC, which resulted in
 the withdrawal of the said petition on 20.08.2014, clearly
 indicates that there were indeed significant disputes
 between the parties and recognized need for maintenance.
 This compromise is in itself strong circumstantial evidence
 of prior ill-treatment and the appellant's consistent
 narrative of being subjected to domestic violence. As such
 on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above,
 the impugned order under appeal is liable to be set aside
 and prayed that the same may be set aside. 18. On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for the respondent
 submitted that the Ld. Trial Court passed the impugned
 order dated 27.05.2025, after considering all the material
 evidences on record and depositions made by the appellant
 no.1 herein. The appellant no. 1 has not been able to prove
 even one allegation, out of numerous allegations against
 the respondents. Ld. Counsel also submitted that the
 appellant no. 1 was in the habit of leaving the matrimonial
 home without any reason and nobody prevented her from
 making any police complaint/PCR call, or lodging

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. criminal complaint, however, she has not done so, as no
 violence or atrocity has ever been inflicted upon her at the
 hands of the respondents. 19. Ld. Counsel for the respondent further submitted
 that there are material inconsistencies in the allegations
 levelled in the complaint and the deposition in the court.
 Moreover, the appellant also failed to furnish any
 document or photograph, which could show that she was
 subjected to domestic violence by the respondents. In her
 complaint, the appellant has levelled general allegations
 and no specific role has been canvassed in the said
 complaint, as well as in the present appeal. Therefore,
 there is no illegality and infirmity in the said impugned
 order. The appeal filed on behalf of the appellants is false,
 frivolous and baseless and prayed for dismissing the
 present appeal filed on behalf of the appellants. 20. I have given thoughtful consideration to the
 submissions made by Ld. Counsel for the appellant and
 Ld. Counsel for the respondent. 21. Perusal of the record shows that the present appeal
 has been filed on behalf of the appellant against the
 impugned judgment dated 27.05.2025, whereby, the Ld.
 Trial Court was pleased to dismiss the application u/s. 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act,
 2005 filed by the petitioner/appellant no. 1 herein. Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. 22. The relevant portion of the impugned judgment
 dated 27.05.2025 passed by the Ld. Trial Court is
 reproduced herein below:- However, during her cross-examination, the petitioner,
 had clearly stated that she got bed, almirah, dressing
 table and TV at the time of her marriage. Further, on
 being questioned by Ld. Counsel for respondents, the
 petitioner clearly stated that she had not received any
 other article. (ii) Further, as per the evidence affidavit of
 petitioner, on 10.12.2008, the respondent no.1 slapped
 her for not bringing sufficient dowry. However, during
 her cross-examination, the petitioner had clearly denied
 about mentioning any such incident in her evidence
 affidavit. She further deposed that she did not remember
 any incident that took place on 10.12.2008 as she got
 married on 08.12.2008. (iii) Further, as per the evidence affidavit of
 petitioner, the respondent no. 1 used to consume liquor
 daily and used to misbehave and beat the petitioner.
 However, during his cross-examination, the petitioner
 stated that her husband consume alcohol but she is not
 aware if he consumes it daily. Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. (iv) As per the evidence affidavit of the petitioner,
 after the settlement in the maintenance petition, the
 respondent forced her to live in Loni Ghaziabad on
 rental basis. However, as per the counseling report dated
 22.08.2014 Ex. PW-1/6 (OSR), the petitioner reside in
 the rental accommodation out of their own will. Even
 during her cross-examination, the petitioner stated that
 in pursuance of afore-said compromise, she alongwith
 her children agreed to live with respondent at a rented
 accommodation in Loni. (v) As per the original petition filed by the petitioner,
 the respondent left the petitioner alone alongwith her the
 daughter at Loni at the instance of his parents and
 family members and the petitioner again approached her
 father and started residing in her parental home.
 However, during her cross-examination, the petitioner
 stated that the respondent no. 1 beaten her and then she
 called her brother and his wife to take her back.
 Thereafter, her brother and his wife came to the rented
 premises in Loni and she alongwith her daughter left
 with them. (vi) As per the petitioner, her father had arranged Rs.
 50,000/- and gave the same to respondent no. 2 after
 threatening by the respondents. However, the petitioner
 had not examined her father, despite the said fact, for
 reasons best known to her. (vii) Further, as per the evidence affidavit of
 petitioner, she went to her matrimonial house to attend a
 family function on 11.12.2018, however when she
 reached there, she was taunted and harassed by the
 respondents. After the completion of the marriage, in the
 night, the respondent no.1 gave several beatings to her
 and also subjected her to unnatural sex without her

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. consent at the instance of other respondents. Thereafter,
 on the next day, the petitioner was left at her parental
 home by the respondents. However, during her cross-
 examination, the petitioner stated that she did not attend
 the Lagan ceremony and she went in the Bahrat and then
 came back to her house. She further stated that she did
 not stay back for attending the marriage ceremony.
 Thus, it is clear that the petitioner did not return to her
 matrimonial house and there is no point of commission
 of any of the said act by respondent no.1 in the night of
 the marriage. (viii) Further, the petitioner had not specifically
 mentioned any specific role or conduct, either of the
 respondents no. 1 or of any other respondent. No PCR
 call or police complaint or MLC had been filed by the
 petitioner to substantiate any of the allegation levelled
 by the petitioner. (ix) Further, in order to prove domestic violence
 committed upon her, the petitioner has not filed any
 document/photograph/ complaint showing any atrocity
 committed upon her by the respondents. 14. All of the above shows that no credibility can be
 placed upon the version of the petitioner, as laid out in
 her petition and evidence. In light of the above
 discussion and for reasons mentioned above, the
 petitioner has not been able to establish any domestic
 violence committed upon her by the respondents or that
 she is an aggrieved person. Thus, the petitioner is not
 entitled to any relief. Here it is pertinent to mention that
 as the petitioner no.2, daughter of petitioner no.1 is
 claiming relief through the petitioner no.1 only, even no
 relief can be granted to her in case of failure of
 petitioner no.1 to prove its case. Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. 23. It is now well settled that the PWDV Act is a civil
 law remedy available in a criminal court. The proceedings
 are predominantly civil in nature, because the reliefs
 provided under Sec. 18 to 23 (protection order, residence
 order, monetary relief, custody, compensation, etc.) are all
 civil remedies. However, the provisions of the Act are
 enforced through the criminal courts and breach of a
 protection order is made a criminal offence u/s. 31 of the
 Act. 24. So as to make out a case under the PWDV Act and
 to get the relief under the said Act, the petitioner
 /applicant/complainant has to prove the following: 25. So as to attract the provisions of PWDV Act and to
 seek relief under the Act, the first and foremost
 requirement is that the complainant must fall within the
 category of 'aggrieved person', as defines u/s. 2(a) of the
 Act. As per u/s. 2(a) , "aggrieved person" means any
 woman who is, or has been, in domestic relationship with
 the respondent and who alleges to have been subjected to
 any act of domestic violence by the respondent. Thus, to
 be an aggrieved person, the complainant must be or must
 have been in domestic relationship with the respondent.
 Domestic relationship has been defined u/s. 2(f) of the Act,
 as a relationship between two persons who live or have, at
 any point of time, lived together in a shared household,
 when they are related by consanguinity, marriage, or
 through a relationship in the nature of marriage, adoption
 or are family members living together as a joint family,
 whereas, respondent has been defined u/s. 2(q) of the Act,
 as any adult male person who is, or has been, in a domestic
 relationship with the aggrieved person. The term "shared
 household" has been defined u/s. 2(s) of the Act, as a
 household, where the person aggrieved lives or at any
 stage has lived in a domestic relationship either singly or
 along with the respondent. Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. 26. In the present case, so far as the existence of
 domestic violence between the appellant no. 1 and
 respondents is concerned, same is not in dispute, as the
 appellant no. 1 and respondent no.1 got married on
 08.12.2008 according to Hindu rites and customs and the
 appellant no. 1 resided with the respondents in the shared
 household. However, it is to be seen whether the appellant
 falls within the category of 'aggrieved person' and
 whether during trial, she has been able to prove the alleged
 incidents of domestic violence at the hands of the
 respondents or not. 27. In her entire petition/application, which was
 supported by evidence affidavit, the appellant had stated
 following instances of domestic violence, which are
 enumerated as under:- iii. Respondent no. 1 was habitual drinker, who used to
 misbehave and beat the appellant no. 1 under the
 intoxication of liquor. iv. All the dowry articles/Stridhan, jewellery are lying in
 the possession of respondents. v. In the month of December 2018, respondent no. 1
 alongwith his father came to the parental house of the
 appellant no. 1 and asked her to come for the family
 function on 11.12.2018 and further asked her to bring
 Rs.50,000/- as additional dowry and threatened her that
 if the appellant no. 1 and her father did not pay
 Rs.50,000/-, the respondent no. 1 would solemnize a
 second marriage. To save the matrimonial life of the
 appellant no. 1, her father paid Rs.50,000/- to
 respondent no. 1. After attending the said family
 function, when the appellant no. 1 had gone to her
 matrimonial home, respondents started taunting her and
 harassed her. Respondent no. 1 also sexually harassed
 her on that night. vi. Respondent no. 1 is working as Manager in oil agency
 and earning Rs. 25,000/- per month and apart from that,
 he is also earning Rs.50,000-60,000/- per month, as
 commission from the business of property dealing. The

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. appellant no. 1 had also given details of various
 properties and incomes of the other respondents. 28. However, when she stepped into the witness box,
 and when she was cross-examined by Ld. Counsel for the
 respondents, various contradictions came out and infact,
 she also denied some of the allegations, which were made
 by her in her petition and evidence affidavit. As per her
 affidavit, father of the appellant no. 1 gave all the
 household articles to the respondent including jewellery
 and cash of Rs.51,000/-, but, in her cross-examination, she
 stated that she got bed, almirah, dressing table & TV and
 when it was specifically asked by the Ld. Counsel for the
 respondent, whether any other article was given, she
 categorically denied. So this allegation of appellant no. 1
 was got nullified in her cross-examination. 29. Similarly, regarding the incident of 10.12.2008
 regarding slapping by respondent no. 1, she had stated that
 she had not written any such incident and she was not able
 to remember any incident that took place on 10.12.2008.
 Infact, she stated that after the wedding, for some days, she
 was treated nicely by the respondents and after some time,
 the respondents started taunting her for bringing
 insufficient dowry articles. So, the incident dated
 10.12.2008 was also not proved during trial. The
 allegations regarding consumption of liquor by respondent

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. no. 1 on daily basis was also denied by her in her cross-
 examination. 30. In her evidence affidavit, she stated that she was
 forced to live in separate house in Loni, Ghaziabad on
 rental basis, however, there is a document on record,
 which is a counselling report dated 22.08.2014 Ex.CW1/6,
 vide which, some settlement had taken place between the
 appellant no. 1 and respondent no. 1, which mentioned that
 both the parties had agreed to reside in the rental
 accommodation out of their free will. So, she was not
 compelled to live in the rented accommodation in Loni,
 Ghaziabad. She also failed to give any satisfactory reply,
 when asked about the properties owned by the respondents
 and also regarding incomes of the respondents. 31. The allegation regarding the incident that had
 happened in December 2018, when respondent no.1 & his
 father had come to the parental house of the appellant no.1
 and requested her to join the family function on
 11.12.2018 and also regarding demand of Rs.50,000/- was
 also not supported by any cogent evidence, as nothing was
 filed on record to show that any such demand was made by
 the father of the respondent no. 1. Moreover, in her
 evidence affidavit, she had stated that after the function,
 she had gone to her matrimonial home, where, respondents
 harassed her and taunted her and respondent no.1 had

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. sexually harassed her in the night, but, in her cross-
 examination, she had very categorically stated that after
 the function, she came back to her parental home and had
 not gone to the matrimonial home, which, belies the
 allegations of the appellant against the respondents and
 totally shatters the credibility of the appellant/complainant. 32. Thus, in view of the entire evidence and especially
 considering the various inconsistencies and contradictions,
 the application/complaint/petition of the petitioner
 /appellant herein was rightly dismissed by the Ld. Trial
 Court and this court also agrees with the conclusion
 arrived at by the Ld. Trial Court. The onus to prove the
 allegations made by the appellant in her complaint was on
 the appellant, which onus the appellant had failed to
 discharge and merely alleging of domestic violence how
 so ever grave that may be, will not entitle the appellant to
 any relief under the PWDV Act , unless those allegations
 are proved on record in accordance with the provisions of
 the Evidence Act by leading cogent evidence. The
 appellant cannot rely upon any discrepancy that might
 have appeared during cross-examination of the respondent
 no. 1, as the appellant had to prove her own case by
 bringing evidence on record in support of her case and
 failure on the part of the respondent no.1 is not enough to
 grant any relief in favour of the appellant. Since, the

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors. evidence tendered by the appellant was not found to be
 credible, the application/petition was rightly dismissed by
 the Ld. Trial Court. 33. In view of the above discussion, this court does not
 find any illegality, infirmity or perversity in the impugned
 order under appeal, which may require any interference
 therein. Therefore, the impugned order under appeal
 passed by the Ld. Trial Court is upheld and the appeal
 filed by the appellant is hereby dismissed, being devoid of
 merit. 34. The record of the Ld. Trial court is ordered to be
 returned with the attested copy of this judgment. 35. Appeal file be consigned to the record room, after
 due compliance. Announced in the open court
on 4th day of December, 2025

 (PUNEET PAHWA)
 Special Judge (NDPS)Addl. Sessions Judge/
 North East District/Karkardooma Courts/Delhi

Criminal Appeal No. 110/2025 Kajal & Anr. Vs. Deepak Jaiswal & Ors.