J U D G M E N T
I. A. No. 431 IN
Writ Petition (Civil) No. 13381 of 1984
with
 I.A. No. 451, I.A. Nos. 438, 439, 442-443, 445 and 447
 in I.A. No. 431, I.A. No. 440 and I.A. No. 441 in I.A. No. 440. KAPADIA, J. Delay condoned in I.A. No. 443 in I.A. No. 431 in W.P. (C) No. 
13381/84. A purported vertical difference of opinion in the administrative 
hierarchy in CBI between the team of investigating officers and the law 
officers on one hand and Director of Prosecution on the other hand on the 
question as to whether there exists adequate evidence for judicial scrutiny in 
the case of criminal misconduct concerning Taj Heritage Corridor Project 
involving 12 accused including former Chief Minister has resulted in the 
legal stalemate which warrants interpretation of Section 173(2) Cr. PC.
BACKGROUND FACTS: 19. Shri Siddiqui and Dr. V.K. Gupta, the present 
Secretary, Environment, U.P. pressurized Shri 
Rajendra, Prasad, Under Secretary, Environment 
Department, U.P. who also tampered with the file 
and made interpolations to cover the fact that the 
Minister had sanctioned Rs. 20 crores. (Ref. Para 
3.1.E.37, page 86). 20. Shri K.C. Mishra, Secretary, Environment and 
Forest Government of India tampered with the file 
and made interpolations in Government records in 
order to cover up his omissions of not approving 
the proposals of his Joint Secretary and Special 
Secretary for writing to the State Government for a 
report and to ask them to carry out work only after 
necessary approvals and clearances. He obscured 
some portions of the notes dated 21/10/2002 and 
08/05/2003 of Dr. Saroj, Additional Director, 
Ministry of Environment and Forest so as to show 
that he was not a part of the decision making and 
had not shown his consent to the proposed project. (Ref. Para 3.1.E.42 page 89). 21. Central Forensic Science Laboratory has given a 
report that interpolations were made in the files by 
Shri Naseemuddin Siddiqui, the then Minister, 
U.P., Shri Rajendra Prasad, Under Secretary, U.P. 
and Shri K.C. Misra, Secretary, Environment and 
Forests, Government of India (Ref. Para 3.1.G.21, 
pages 106-107 and 3.1.E.44 (5-6), page 90)." Accordingly, this Court inter alia directed CBI to register an FIR and 
make further investigation in accordance with law. By the said order, CBI 
was also directed to take appropriate steps for holding investigations against 
the former Chief Minister, Ms. Mayawati, and Mr. Nasimuddin Siddiqui, 
former Minister for Environment, U.P.. CBI was also directed to make 
investigations against other officers mentioned hereinabove. By the said 
order the Income Tax department was also directed to cooperate with CBI in 
further investigation. By the said order, CBI was directed to take into 
consideration the provisions of the IPC, the Prevention of Corruption Act, 
1988 and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 . By order dated 19.7.2004 in I.A. No. 376 etc. in Writ Petition (C) No. 
13381/84 this Court directed CBI to furnish a self-contained note in respect 
of its findings against the officers of the State Government/ Central 
Government. CBI was given eight weeks time to complete the investigation 
in respect of FIR No. RC.18 and three months time was granted to complete 
the investigation in respect of FIR No. RC.19. By Order dated 25.10.2004 in I.A. No. 376 etc. in Writ Petition (C) 
No. 13381/84 this Court noted that two disciplinary enquiries were required 
to be instituted by the State Government against Shri Punia, former Principal 
Secretary to C.M., U.P.. This was because CBI had submitted two distinct 
notes. On 25.10.2004 the departmental enquiry on CBI note I stood 
completed. However, learned counsel appearing for the State of U.P. 
submitted that in the absence of CBI furnishing to the disciplinary authority 
the statement of the former Chief Minister, the second disciplinary 
proceeding could not be initiated by the State against Shri Punia. This aspect 
is important. The case of Shri Punia was that he had acted under oral 
instructions of the former Chief Minister. This was required to be enquired 
into by the departmental enquiry, therefore, the State requested CBI to 
furnish the statement of the former Chief Minister which CBI had collected 
during investigation under RC.18. At that stage, time was sought by the CBI 
on the ground that investigation into RC.18 was nearing completion and that 
CBI was awaiting legal scrutiny of the matter. Therefore, this Court 
adjourned the matter stating that the second disciplinary enquiry against Shri 
Punia arising out of CBI note II stands deferred until availability of the 
statement of the former Chief Minister of the State. That statement was 
ordered to be given to the State Government within three weeks. It was 
further ordered that, if within three weeks CBI failed to make available the 
said statement then the State Government will proceed with the initiation of 
disciplinary enquiry against Shri Punia on the basis of the material available. 
Accordingly, this Court adjourned the matter stating that after legal scrutiny 
the report shall be submitted before this Court. In the meantime, CBI submitted its report with detailed Annexures 
running into hundreds of pages. By order dated 14.3.2005 in I.A. No. 431 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 
13381/84, since the report of CBI was voluminous, this Court after going 
through the provisions of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the "CVC Act") directed the records relating to 
prosecution of twelve accused be placed before the Central Vigilance 
Commission (hereinafter referred to as the "CVC") for scrutiny and 
recommendation. CVC was added as a party. Basically this Court wanted 
CVC to analyse the Report of CBI and give to the Court the summary of 
recommendations of various officers in the administrative hierarchy of CBI 
as the Court was informed that there was divergence of opinion between 
them. To complete the chronology of orders passed by this Court, we may 
point out that the Director, CBI submitted his Status Report as on 
31.12.2004 to this Court in which he stated as follows: CONTENTIONS: Shri Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the 
former Chief Minister submitted that this Court should be loathe to interfere 
in investigation since it is a field of activity reserved for the police and the 
executive. He submitted that, in the present case, we are still at the stage of 
investigation and unless an extraordinary case of gross abuse of power is 
made out, no interference is called for under Article 32 of the Constitution. 
Learned counsel further submitted that, in the present case, CVC had no role 
to play, particularly since the case pertains to conduct of the officers who are 
the employees of the State Government. Learned counsel submitted that 
public servants serving in connection with affairs of the State Government 
fell outside the powers of CVC. Learned counsel submitted that, in any 
event, CVC had no power to direct the manner in which CBI will conclude 
the proceedings. Learned counsel submitted that the opinion as to whether 
the case is made out for judicial scrutiny or not has to be the decision of CBI 
and unless there is gross abuse of power this Court should not intervene in 
the field of investigation under Article 32 of the Constitution. Learned 
counsel urged that, in the present case, there is no such gross abuse of power 
made out, and, therefore, this Court should not interfere under Article 32 of 
the Constitution. ISSUE: This judgment shows the importance of the opinion to be formed by the 
officer in charge of the police station. The opinion of the officer in charge of 
the police station is the basis of the report. Even a competent Magistrate 
cannot compel the concerned police officer to form a particular opinion. The 
formation of the opinion of the police on the material collected during the 
investigation as to whether judicial scrutiny is warranted or not is entirely 
left to the officer in charge of the police station. There is no provision in the 
Code empowering a Magistrate to compel the police to form a particular 
opinion. This Court observed that, although the Magistrate may have certain 
supervisory powers under the Code, it cannot be said that when the police 
submits a report that no case has been made out for sending the accused for 
trial, it is open to the Magistrate to direct the police to file a charge-sheet. 
The formation of the said opinion, by the officer in charge of the police 
station, has been held to be a final step in the investigation, and that final 
step has to be taken only by the officer in charge of the police station and by 
no other authority. In the case of Union of India and Ors. v. Sushil Kumar Modi and 
Ors. investigation was entrusted to CBI in the fodder scam case by the 
High Court to ensure proper and honest performance of duty by CBI. This 
Court directed CBI officers to inform the Chief Justice of the Patna High 
Court about the progress of the investigation and to obtain his directions if 
so required for conducting the investigation. The Joint Director of CBI 
submitted his report on the investigation carried out by him to the Chief 
Justice of the High Court. The High Court found that the Director was trying 
to interfere with the investigation and, therefore, the High Court directed that 
all reports of the CBI officers shall be submitted directly to the court without 
being forwarded to the Director, CBI. This order of the High Court was 
challenged. It was held that the Director, CBI was responsible and 
accountable for the proper investigation of the case and, therefore, he cannot 
be excluded from the investigation. It was, however, observed that the 
Director, CBI was duty-bound to make a fair, honest and complete 
investigation and officers associated with the investigation have to function 
as members of a cohesive team engaged in common pursuit of such an 
investigation so as to uphold the majesty of the law and preserve the rule of 
law. It was held that, in case of any difference of opinion between officers of 
CBI in respect of the investigation, final decision would not be taken by the 
Director himself or by the Director merely on the opinion of Legal 
Department of the CBI, but the matter would be decided according to the 
opinion of the Attorney General of India for the purpose of investigation and 
filing of the charge-sheet against any such individual. In that event, the 
opinion would be sought from the Attorney General after making available 
to him of the opinions expressed on the subject by the persons associated 
with the investigation as a part of the materials. We quote hereinbelow paras 
13 and 14 of the said judgment : This position was clarified in the case of Union of India and Ors. v. 
Sushil Kumar Modi and Ors. . It was observed that the nature of the PIL 
proceedings before the Patna High Court in the fodder scam case was 
somewhat similar to the proceedings in Vineet Narain's case. It was 
observed by this Court that, the performance of the PIL proceedings is 
essentially to ensure performance of statutory duty by the CBI. The duty of 
the court in such proceedings is to ensure that CBI and other government 
agencies do their duty in conformity with law. According to the Code, the 
formation of the opinion as to whether or not there is a case to place the 
accused for trial is that of the police officer making the investigation and the 
final step in the investigation is to be taken only by the police and by no 
other authority. It was observed that, in order to ensure compliance of this 
aspect of the Code, the directions were issued from time to time to CBI that 
in case of difference of opinion at any stage during the investigation, the 
final decision shall be of the Attorney General on reference being made to 
him on the difference of opinion between the officers concerned. This Court 
further observed in that case that the High Court was only required to ensure 
that the Director, CBI did not close any investigation based only upon his 
individual opinion, if there be any difference of opinion between the 
Director, CBI and the other officers concerned in the CBI. In Vineet Narain and Ors. v. Union of India and Anr. certain 
measures by way of checks and balances were recommended by this Court 
to insulate CBI from extraneous influence of any kind. It was observed that, 
unless a proper investigation is made followed by a proper prosecution the 
rule of law will lose significance. Accordingly, directions were issued till 
such time as the legislature steps in by way of proper legislation. One of the 
points which arose for determination in that case was the significance of the 
word "superintendence" in Section 4 of the Delhi Special Police 
Establishment Act, 1946. It was held that the overall superintendence of 
CBI vests in the Central Government and, therefore, by virtue of Section 3 of that Act the power vested in the Central Government to specify the 
offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by CBI. But 
once that jurisdiction is attracted by virtue of the notification under Section 3 , the actual investigation is to be governed by the statutory 
provisions under the general law applicable to such investigation and the 
power of the investigator cannot be curtailed by the executive instructions 
issued under Section 4 by the Central Government. The general 
superintendence over the functioning of the Directorate/ department and 
specification of the offences to be investigated by CBI is not the same thing, 
therefore, the Central Government is precluded from controlling the 
initiation and the actual process of investigation. It was held that, the word 
"superintendence" in Section 4(1) cannot be construed in a wider sense to 
permit supervision of the actual investigation of an offence by CBI. 
Therefore, the Central Government was precluded from issuing any 
direction to CBI to curtail or inhibit its jurisdiction to investigate an offence 
specified in the notification issued under Section 3 by a directive under Section 4(1) of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The 
constitution of the CVC flowed from the judgment of this Court in Vineet 
Narain6 (supra). It is in this judgment that a direction was given to the 
Central Government by this Court for granting statutory status to the CVC. In the case of Union of India v. Prakash P. Hinduja and anr. 
this Court has held that the provision contained in Chapter XII Cr.PC shows 
that detailed and elaborate provisions have been made for securing an 
investigation into an offence of which information has been given. The 
manner and the method of conducting the investigation are left entirely to 
the officer in charge of the police station. A Magistrate has no power to 
interfere with the same. The formation of the opinion whether there is 
sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of suspicion to justify the 
forwarding of the case to a Magistrate or not, as contemplated by Sections 
169 and 170, is to be that of the officer in charge of the police station and a 
Magistrate has absolutely no role to play at this stage. Similarly, after 
completion of the investigation while making a report to the Magistrate 
under Section 173, the requisite details have to be submitted by the officer in 
charge of the police station without any kind of interference or direction of a 
Magistrate and this will include an opinion regarding the fact whether any 
offence appears to have been committed and, if so, by whom, as provided by 
clause (d) of sub-section (2)(i) of Section 173 Cr. PC. These provisions are 
applicable even in cases under the P.C. Act, 1988 vide Section 22 thereof. 
The Magistrate is not bound to accept the final report submitted by the 
police and if he feels that the evidence and the material collected during the 
investigation justify prosecution of the accused, he may not accept that 
report and take cognizance of the offence and summon the accused, which 
would not constitute interference with the investigation as such. In the said 
judgment , it was further observed, relying upon the judgment in Vineet 
Narain6 (supra), that once the jurisdiction is conferred on CBI to investigate 
an offence by virtue of notification under Section 3 of the Act, the powers of 
investigation are governed by the statutory provisions and they cannot be 
curtained by any executive instruction issued under Section 4(1) of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. Analyses of the above judgments show that there is a clear-cut and 
well-demarcated sphere of activities in the field of crime detection and crime 
punishment. Investigation of an offence is the field reserved for the 
executive through the police department, the superintendence over which 
vests in the State Government. The executive is charged with a duty to keep 
vigilance over law and order situation. It is obliged to prevent crime. If an 
offence is committed allegedly, it is the State's duty to investigate into the 
offence and bring the offender to book. Once it investigates through the 
police department and finds an offence having been committed, it is its duty 
to collect evidence for the purposes of proving the offence. Once that is 
completed, the investigating officer submits report to the court requesting 
the court to take cognizance of the offence under Section 190 Cr.PC and his 
duty comes to an end. Therefore, there is a well-defined and well-
demarcated functions in the field of crime detection and its subsequent 
adjudication by the court. Lastly, the term "investigation" under Section 
173(2) of the Cr.PC includes opinion of the officer in charge of the police 
station as to whether there is sufficient evidence or reasonable ground of 
suspicion to justify the forwarding of the case to the concerned court or not. 
This opinion is not legal evidence. At the stage of Section 173(2) the 
question of interpretation of legal evidence does not arise. In any event, that 
function is that of the courts. CASE LAW ON THE ROLE OF OFFICER IN CHARGE OF THE 
POLICE STATION: 170. As observed by this Court in Satya Narain Musadi 
and Ors. v. State of Bihar (1980) 3 SCC 152; that the 
statutory requirement of the report under Section 173(2) 
would be complied with if the various details prescribed 
therein are included in the report. This report is an 
intimation to the magistrate that upon investigation into a 
cognizable offence the investigating officer has been able 
to procure sufficient evidence for the court to inquire into 
the offence and the necessary information is being sent to 
the court. In fact, the report under Section 173(2) 
purports to be an opinion of the investigating officer that 
as far as he is concerned he has been able to procure 
sufficient material for the trial of the accused by the 
court. The report is complete if it is accompanied with all 
the documents and statements of witnesses as required by 
Section 175(5). Nothing more need be stated in the report 
of the Investigating Officer. It is also not necessary that 
all the details of the offence must be stated. The details of 
the offence are required to be proved to bring home the 
guilt to the accused at a later stage i.e. in the course of the 
trial of the case by adducing acceptable evidence." (emphasis supplied)

	In the case of Kaptan Singh and Ors. v. State of M.P. and Anr. this Court held vide para 5 as follows: (emphasis supplied)

APPLICATION OF THE ABOVE CASE LAW TO THE FACTS OF 
THIS CASE: The above Interlocutory applications are accordingly disposed of.