CORAM : HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJESH SHANKAR ----- For the Petitioner : Ms. Rashmi Kumar, Advocate
 For the State : Mr. Naveen Kumar Ganjhu, A.P.P. ----- Order No.09 Date: 20.08.2024 1. The petitioner is apprehending his arrest in connection with

 Telaiya P.S. Case No.139 of 2022 corresponding to G.R. No.598

 of 2022 registered under Sections 406 / 419 / 420 of the Indian

 Penal Code and Sections 67 / 67(A) of the Information Technology

 Act, 2000. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has

 been falsely implicated in the present case and has not

 committed any offence as alleged in the F.I.R. The petitioner has

 not been named in the F.I.R., however, his name has surfaced in

 the present case only due to the reason that his car (Wagon-R)

 bearing registration no.JH-10V-6718 was found from the house

 premises of Rajan Sao situated at Naresh Nagar, Telaiya which

 was being used on rent by one of the co-accused-Tinku Kumar

 who was allegedly involved in commission of cyber offence. In

 fact, the petitioner came to know about his involvement in the

 present case pursuant to notice issued to him under Section

 41(A) of Cr.P.C. Except the said fact, there is no material to

 connect with the petitioner with the offence as alleged in the

 F.I.R. The petitioner has no criminal antecedent as has been

 stated in paragraph no.10 of the present anticipatory bail
 application. He also undertakes to co-operate in the ongoing

 investigation. Hence, he may be given the privilege of

 anticipatory bail. 3. Learned A.P.P. while opposing the petitioner's prayer for grant of

 anticipatory bail submits that the petitioner's aforesaid vehicle

 was used by co-accused Tinku Kumar who was apprehended

 from the place of occurrence with several incriminating articles

 including mobile sets and SIMs by which he used to send

 messages to different persons in the name of sex service

 (sextortion). He, however, submits that there is no material that

 the petitioner was involved in the said offence. 4. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and on

 consideration of the materials available on record, I am inclined

 to enlarge the petitioner on anticipatory bail. Accordingly, the

 petitioner, above named, in the event of his arrest or surrender

 before the court below within three weeks from today, shall be

 released on bail on furnishing bail bond of Rs.20,000/- (Rupees

 Twenty Thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to

 the satisfaction of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Koderma in

 connection with Telaiya P.S. Case No.139 of 2022 corresponding

 to G.R. No.598 of 2022 subject to the conditions as laid down

 under Section 438(2) of the Cr.P.C. (Rajesh Shankar, J.)
Arpit/ -2- A.B.A. No.1413 of 2024