Updated on April 29, at 4:27 PM: The Indian government has also blocked the official account of the Government of Pakistan.

The Government has blocked 16 Pakistani YouTube channels for disseminating “provocative and communally sensitive content, false and misleading narratives and misinformation against India, its Army and security agencies”, according to news agency ANI. This includes new publications like Dawn News, Raftar, Geo News, and Bol News, with all the channels having a combined subscriber base of 63.08 million.

“This content is currently unavailable in this country because of an order from the government related to national security or public order,” says the message on YouTube if you try to open up the blocked YouTube channels.

On the recommendations of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Government of India has banned the 16 Pakistani YouTube channels including Dawn News, Samaa TV, Ary News, Geo News for disseminating provocative and communally sensitive content, false and misleading narratives and… pic.twitter.com/AusR1fCkvN

The Government’s blocking decision comes after the Pahalgam terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir on April 22. While the geo-political discourse on the terrorist attack continues, the Press Information Bureau’s (PIB) fact-check unit has been flagging incidents of old and out of context information that is circulating on social media in the wake of the terrorist attack from Pakistan-based accounts.

The Indian Government issues blocking orders under the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act, 2000) and the rules under the overarching Act. Section 69A of the IT Act gives the Government the power to ask platforms to take down content in the interest of:

Blocking orders under Section 69A have to follow certain procedural safeguards including the requirement to record the reasons for blocking in writing, a pre-decisional hearing where the platform (which hosted the content) and the user who posted it can participate and a post-decisional review of the order.

Besides this, the Government has also previously asked platforms to take down content under Section 79(3)(b) of the Act. Section 79 protects platforms from liability for content posted by users. Part 3(b) of this section states that platforms can lose this protection if they fail to take down unlawful content that the Government or a court has informed them about. To issue takedown notices under this section, the Government has created the Sahyog Portal, which the  Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) manages.

According to the information that the Government included as part of its response to an ongoing court case against X (formerly Twitter), the I4C issued  426 content takedown notices to platforms since March 2024 . Between March 2024 and 2025, the I4C has asked YouTube to take down  257 URLs/accounts, focusing its enforcement action on content related to reservation, obscenity, abusiveness, tarnishing, disharmony, and national security, among other issues.

In 2022 , the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) issued takedown orders for blocking a Pakistani over-the-top (OTT) service called Vidly TV, its website, two mobile apps, four social media accounts, and its app for smart TVs. The blocking order came after the platform released a show called  “Sevak: The Confessions”, which the Indian Government found to be “detrimental to national security, sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, and public order in the country.”

The Indian Government has also in the past blocked access to the Government of Pakistan’s X account in India. It did so twice in 2022 : once in July and another time in October without any explanation. Then, in 2023 , it issued blocking orders for the account once again, and just like the previous instances, there was no clarity about why the Centre took down the account.

Also read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event