The Indian government released a proposal to regulate online gaming last month. But it won’t actually be doing much of this regulation. That’ll be the responsibility of “self-regulatory bodies” registered with the IT Ministry under the IT Rules, 2021. It will be their job to ensure that only legitimate online gaming platforms operate in India’s markets—and offer safe and consumer-friendly games.

Enter, the Esya Centre : The Delhi-based think tank came out with a template “code of conduct” for online gaming self-regulatory bodies last week. The gist: this is “a framework that self-regulatory bodies can adopt to govern their functioning”. More importantly, “adoption of a uniform code will make the online gaming environment more standardised without creating excessive compliance requirements and barriers to entry or to innovation”. We’ve summarised the code in this piece. Our take on the code will be out soon.

Why it matters : These online gaming rules—introduced through the IT Rules, 2021—come in the wake of rising concerns over gaming-related harms. People get addicted to games. They lose lots of money while playing them. Children steal to play online. Some find themselves playing on gambling sites which are illegal. The rules try and address these concerns—but, in reality, it’s self-regulatory bodies that have to try to prevent them from arising at all. They have to operate according to a framework based on certain principles laid out by the IT Ministry. Esya’s Code is an early attempt at defining what that framework might look like.

STAY ON TOP OF TECH POLICY: Our daily newsletter with top stories from MediaNama and around the world, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

Self-regulatory bodies have their work cut out for them under the amendments. They have to verify new games and members, resolve pending consumer complaints, and ensure that their members comply with Indian laws. That’s a lot for a single body to do.

What does Esya recommend? : These bodies should appoint boards of directors or governing bodies, as the Rules mandate (and tell the Ministry of any changes to them within 15 days). But, the think tank also adds that “specialised capacity and inclusion of members with relevant experience is key to (..) meet the objectives of self-regulation”.

So, it recommends that self-regulatory bodies set up separate committees to address grievance redressal, trust and safety, and other regulatory responsibilities. Experts in mental health, law, consumer protection, data protection and other fields can be appointed to the committees.

These bodies also have to evaluate membership applications from online gaming platforms. This includes checking their compliance with the IT Rules and the larger IT Act.

What does Esya recommend?: Incorporating additional evaluation criteria including:

Bodies should also verify if the online gaming platform is a member of or has applied to another body before considering their application. Applications from platforms rejected by other self-regulatory bodies shouldn’t be considered after 30 days of rejection, the think tank adds.

Once the rules are enacted, every gaming platform in India is going to be standing in line to join some self-regulatory body. So, these applications need to be reviewed efficiently and transparently. If things move too slowly, then platforms wait longer for their games to hit the market. If bodies are too opaque about how they function, then there’s a likelihood of unfair decision-making that harms platforms.

What does Esya recommend? : A granular application process that includes:

Sure, self-regulatory bodies will approve new members and make them follow their policies. But, what could that membership look like? How long would it last?  Can it be revoked? The rules are quieter on how platform membership with self-regulatory bodies will eventually evolve.

What does Esya recommend? : Outlining terms and conditions like:

The proposed amendments are clear—self-regulatory bodies can only verify games brought by their members. It shouldn’t involve gambling or harm India’s wide security interests. It also shouldn’t harm consumers or young gamers—one of the key reasons that prompted the amendments in the first place. But, operationalising evaluation criteria for such broad concerns is easier said than done.

What does Esya recommend? : Developing tests for specific concerns, like:

Similar to platform membership applications, online games need to be reviewed efficiently and transparently. In this case, delays in decision-making can financially cost companies, especially those that are just starting out. Also, as some have noted, this reviewing process can also lead to the intellectual property of gaming platforms being leaked, hurting their competitive advantage.

What does Esya recommend? : Aside from familiar provisions on acknowledging applications, specifying validity, and cancelling games’ verifications, new recommendations include:

The Rules direct gaming platforms to set up their own grievance redressal mechanisms for consumers. But, they also mandate registered self-regulatory bodies to set up their own grievance redressal complaints to address pending complaints quickly.

What does Esya recommend? : Fleshing out the timelines and processes to get things done:

“How will a caged parrot hold its masters accountable?” asked someone at our event on the gaming rules last month. What they mean: self-regulatory bodies are usually funded by large gaming platforms. It may not be in their interests to operate fairly—which can disadvantage smaller platforms or new entrants to the market. So, transparent and ethical governance is necessary to prevent these anti-competitive practices from coming to life.

What does Esya recommend? : Keeping most things in public view, like:

“A multi-stakeholder approach and collaboration between self-regulatory bodies holds the key to industry-led standard formulation and sectoral growth,” says Esya. Creating mechanisms that lead to uniform standards on game testing, data sharing, fraud detection, and capacity building is key. To prevent duplicated regulatory actions, self-regulatory bodies can jointly work together to enforce and investigate their policies.

This post is released under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license . Please feel free to republish on your site, with attribution and a link. Adaptation and rewriting, though allowed, should be true to the original.

Read More

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event