SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Girlfriend being held captive by fraud for forced marriage. Help me make it viral.
DATE: 2019-11-11
SCORE: 8
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/dug0k6/girlfriend_being_held_captive_by_fraud_for_forced/

--- POST TEXT ---

My girlfriend, 22 years old, is being held captive for forced marriage and suppressed of her basic human rights. Her marriage has been fixed completely against her will. She is currently being held captive by her family and exhausted of all legal options. A high-level plotting has been done against her and me so that we get no help. Neither her nor me or anybody else can do anything about it unless a high-level body takes the matter into their hands. Cops, courts, you name it, all are involved, leaving us helpless.

I am going to post this whole story on my [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/Sagar.Parikh.2626) (@Sagar.Parikh.2626) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/SPMBPro) (@SPMBPro) this month, so please add me there and share and/or comment if you can support me.

On 11 June 2019, my girlfriend's Roka (sort of engagement) was done by force with another man. That man and his parents knew that she is in love with somebody else and completely against this forced marriage, but just like the victim's parents and rest of the family, they said it doesn't matter. A few days before that happened, she had called National Women's Helpline number 181 to take action against her parents arranging the start of this forced marriage, but all the women cops did was come at her place in Surat (Gujarat, India) and counsel the parents. Seeing that not work, she went to a local police station a few days later to file a complaint against her family and seek help, but she was told that "no crime has been committed yet and there's nothing we can do, this is your family matter."

We came to realise just around this time that she was under constant watch from private detectives hired by her family, who worked to ensure she didn't flee away. The restrictions were tightened after the Roka and she hasn’t been allowed (by physical force) to leave the city (Surat) and meet anybody or speak with anybody outside of her family. However, having been in a relationship with me for almost three years, she couldn't keep herself from me and continued speaking with me.

In the meantime, my girlfriend's family created a plot to kidnap her and take her to her grandpa's place in Chennai (Tamil Nadu, India) and hold her in captivity there until the date they have fixed for her marriage (17 January 2020). They have proved her mentally ill or something that legally leads to her having no authority for her decisions. Her family seems to have obtained false medical documents proving her in no capacity of making any sensible decisions. Fearing I or my family might try to help the woman, they have even filed various fake police cases on me and my family. She told me that her family has filed charges against me such as blackmailing her with her intimate pictures, trying to make her runaway against her will, etc. She also told me that her father has hired thugs to beat us up if required. Her father has been to jail in the past for money-mattered frauds and happens to be of a very bad character. Her family took her phone away one day and used some of our private chats on phone in which we had a few arguments as an evidence to prove the cops that I am a threat to her life in various ways. One day she was locked in her room by her parents and was forced to answer various questions about the same asked by a court magistrate brought home by them. She didn’t say anything against me, though, because there was nothing to.

In August 2019, my girlfriend's mother flew to Chennai to plan with grandpa and three maternal uncles how to bring her to Chennai. Her grandpa is a millionaire and has a lot of influence among politicians, state cops and courts. He's a prominent money-lender, and from what I hear, he's got INR 20-30 crore floating easily in Chennai's money market on loan. He owns several more big businesses, and so do his three sons. He has been running her house since forever as her father doesn't make much money and cannot live up to his rich community's standards. While her father makes barely around INR 25,000 a month, her grandpa and her mother want a wedding worth INR 1 crore for her. Her dad can't afford it and wants the burden off his head. Her grandpa is funding the wedding. Nobody from her family accepts me as they are (Rajasthani-)Jain, while I am a (Gujarati-)Hindu.

For about two weeks, her mother stayed in Chennai and plotted how to bring her there with the help of her grandpa, three uncles and Surat and Chennai cops. Then her mother returned to Surat with one of the uncles and a top-level Chennai cop, who told her that "I have come from Chennai especially to take you there, and there's no way you can stop me."

Just 3-4 days later, on 3 September 2019, my girlfriend was abducted and taken to Chennai by her uncle and the Chennai cop. In the afternoon, her mother took her to a Jain temple saying they’re going for the prayer of the on-going Samvatsari festival’s final day and when she returned home, a squad of corrupted local cops, the Chennai cop and others were standing outside along with a bag of her clothes. She called cops using her phone and a team of cops did arrive at the scene, but the Chennai cops showed him some "orders" and other documents, seeing which they went away in just a minute without even taking a statement of the victim or speaking with her. She was then beaten up by her mother in front of the whole building for calling cops on her parents, even though she was just trying to save herself. Then she was forced into a car along with the corrupt local cops, her uncle and the Chennai cop and taken to the Surat Airport. The physical torture wasn't new, as her parents had already been doing that from 3-4 months by now.

My girlfriend was taken straight to the Surat Airport's runway, no entering terminal or anything. Her family had attained VIP access to the aircraft which is given to only high-profile government officials or celebrities. She was made to sit in the car until just a few minutes before the flight was to depart for the take-off.

For about three weeks, she was kept in Chennai at her grandpa's place and constantly tortured, physically and mentally, by her relatives. They kept beating her up everyday, all the time, saying "Stop talking with your boyfriend (me). Cut all the ties with him." She was not allowed to go outside for three weeks and kept in one room on the third floor. Sadly, even her aunts used to beat her up. Fed up and unable to tolerate anymore, she wrote a suicide note and planned to take her life one day. Before she could do so, her family members found it and beat her up a lot for the same. Her grandpa immediately called her mom-dad and paternal grandparents from Surat asking them to come there at the earliest. Her mom-dad and paternal grandparents arrived in Chennai then. The parents beat her up a lot as soon as they arrived, for planning to suicide and not stopping to love me.

On 26 September 2019, my girlfriend was relocated by her family to Bangalore (Karnataka, India), where grandpa has another house. The reason, she told me, was that her uncles have even more influence among cops and courts. She was beaten up even more brutally there everyday. Her family now keeps an eye on her every second she uses her phone and no longer lets her talk with me. Wherever she has stayed for the past six months, be it in Surat, Chennai or Bangalore, her room has been bugged with spy video and audio recorders. Even her phone is bugged; her family has read all of our private chats and known wherever we talk right at the moment.

Nobody else from the woman's family is ready to help her because most don't know, and regardless, nobody in her community helps in case of human rights matters. “Apne mein aisa hi hota hai is their common excuse.” Adults being forced into arranged marriages is very common in the Rajasthani communities. The use of physical and mental torture and thugs is common among them, is what I have learned after reading multiple cases in newspapers and court filings. However, this is a whole new level of plotting and has basically made the victim helpless. If I go to court and file a writ petition to legally force her parents to bring her to court where she can reveal her family's crimes, her family has filed a lot of fraud legal cases registered on me to prove that I am nothing but a danger to my girlfriend's life and that I am making false accusations on them. I approached several prominent lawyers to ask about filing a legal case, but everybody was of the opinion that you barely stand any chance in this case and that little can be done about it unless a really powerful government body, whether national or international, gets involved and pressurises the corrupt local cops to investigate and help this woman. They could’ve just filed a case and earned good money from me, but luckily they were genuine people.

I make a very sincere request to you to bring this case to light and help my girlfriend. Adult forced marriages with domestic violence from family among the rich and educated but orthodox communities are very common in India but those cases are mostly suppressed with money and influence. Her case being severely dramatic makes it worse. District, City and State Women's Commissions can do nothing other than counsel parents. They have no legal authority to take action. Trust me, I’ve checked all my facts and tried everything. And the situation is too delicate now to take any risks where there's not enough legal enforcement.