The present appeal is directed against judgment, dated 24th
January 2017, of the learned Single Judge in OMP 260/2015, which
had been preferred by the appellant, under Section 34 of the
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "the
Act"), challenging Award, dated 29th November, 2014, as corrected on
15th December, 2014. The Facts: Milestone 2: Complete length of 25 Km of old
 carriageway in all respects of Milestone No
 1 and additional 20 Km length of new
 carriageway in all respects so that total
 completed stretch would be 45 km of new
 carriageway and 25 km of old carriageway
 between 28 months from the Start Date. This
 also excludes major bridges i.e. on
 18.08.2005. Milestone 3: Remaining length including all
 Bridges (complete work) shall be completed
 by the end of the Contract period i.e. 36
 months from the Start Date i.e. on
 18.08.2005.‖

4 The dispute, which came to be referred to the Arbitral Tribunal,
in the present case, related to payment, claimed by the respondent, for
additional cost stated to have been incurred, and loss suffered, by it,
owing to extension of the period for completion of the contract from
19th February 2007 to 15th June 2009 which, according to the
respondent, was due to "compensation events" not attributable to it. 5 According to the respondent, the said "compensation events" 6 The time schedule relevant for the present case stands well-
delineated in para 9.2 of the Award of the Arbitral Tribunal, and may
be reproduced, verbatim, thus: 7 The claim of the respondent, for additional costs/expenses
incurred by it during the extended period, was recommended, by the
Engineer of the appellant, vide letter dated 28th March 2010, which
was forwarded by the Engineer to the appellant for approval. No copy
of the said letter was, however, supplied, by the Engineer, to the
respondent, despite repeated requests; ultimately, the respondent had
to obtain a copy of the said letter under the Right to Information Act,
2005 (hereinafter referred to as "the RTI Act "). Despite such
approval, the respondent was not paid costs/expenses, as demanded by
it, for the extended period, resulting in a dispute. 8 The respondent issued notice of dispute to the appellant and,
thereafter, referred the matter to the Dispute Resolution Board
("DRB"), seeking its recommendations. No recommendation, within
the period stipulated therefor in the contract, being forthcoming from
the DRB, the respondent, vide communication dated 7th February
2011, indicated its intention to commence arbitration. 9 Approval, to refer the dispute to arbitration, was also accorded,
by the appellant, vide letter dated 17th March 2011. It was thus, that FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 5 of 48 the proceedings came to be referred to arbitration, specifically to an
Arbitral Tribunal consisting of 3 engineers. 10 Clauses 28.1 and 28.2 of the Conditions of Contract read thus: 11 Clause 44.1(a) of the Conditions of Contract stipulated the
following to be a "compensation event": 12 The precise backdrop, in which the dispute arose, stands
distilled, in para 10.0 of the Award of the Arbitral Tribunal, thus: 13 The issue arising, before it, for consideration, was rightly
captured, by the Arbitral Tribunal, in para 13.0 of its Award, as being
―about the contentions raised by the respondent regarding EOT
granted by itself and whether the additional cost sought by the
claimant, under compensation events and on account of extension of
time for completion of entire work, is payable or otherwise.‖ It may be
noted, here, that the claimant, and respondent, before the Arbitral
Tribunal, are the respondent, and appellant, in the present appeal,
respectively. 14 Having thus set out the issue for determination before it, the
Arbitral Tribunal proceeded to subdivide the said issue into three
distinct components, viz. 15 The Arbitral Tribunal held - correctly, in our estimation - that, if
the delay, and EOT, was on account of compensation events, and
Extension of Time (EOT) had been granted under Clause 28, read with FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 8 of 48 Clause 44 and 21 of the Contract, the respondent would necessarily be
entitled to additional costs therefor. 16 The reasoning, in the Award of the Arbitral Tribunal, thereafter,
proceeds as under: The fact that EOT was granted under Clause 28, amounted by
 itself, to acknowledgement, by the Engineer, of the fact that the
 delay, and EOT necessitated as a result thereof, were
 attributable to compensation events. (iii) Vide letter dated 20th March, 2010, addressed to the
 respondent, the Engineer communicated the approval, by the FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 9 of 48 appellant, of EOT for completion of the contract, till 15th June,
 2009. The said communication stated that: (iv) Clauses 21.1 and 44.1 of the Conditions of Contract
 defined compensation events as those which were not
 attributable to the respondent. Clause 21.1 of the Conditions of
 Contract read thus:- Clause 44.1 of the Conditions of Contract (already
 reproduced supra) further indicated that non-giving by the
 appellant, to the respondent, of access, to any part of the
 site, by the site possession date, free of encumbrance,
 constituted a "compensation event". (v) The appellant had sought to contend before the Arbitral
 Tribunal that, as per Item 18 of the Contract Data read with
 Clause 110 of the Additional Technical Specifications ("ATS"),
 the respondent was responsible for shifting utilities and
 removing encroachments. Consequently, it was sought to be
 contended by the appellant, that delay on account of these
 events, disentitled the respondent to compensation. The Arbitral
 Tribunal held, in respect of the said contention of the appellant,
 thus: (b) Item 18 was relatable to Item 110.6 of BOQ and
 had no reference to the Conditions of Contract. (c) Fulfillment of Milestones necessarily required
 physical possession of, and access to, the site. (d) These aspects had been raised by the bidder at the
 pre-bid meeting and were clarified by the answers given
 therein, which ipsofacto became part of the contract by
 virtue of Clause 9.2.4 thereof. (e) In so far as the requirement in Item 18 of the
 respondent to coordinate with the authorities for
 rendering the site unencumbered, the scope and ambit of
 such "coordination" could be understood by referring to
 Clause 110.1 of the ATS, which read thus: This Clause made it clear that cutting trees/shifting
 utilities/removal of encroachments was the responsibility
 of the service provider/concerned authorities. This
 responsibility could not be shifted to the shoulders of the
 respondent, who had to decide on the priority of removal,
 etc., only because the work had to be carried out,
 ultimately, by it. "Coordination", within the meaning of
 this clause, inferred working harmoniously and together
 with the service provider/concerned authorities, and did
 not imply that the respondent was responsible to get the
 trees cut, utilities shifted, or encroachments removed.
 The appellant's contention, to that effect, was, therefore,
 misconceived and rejected accordingly. (f) Having thus delineated the ambit of "coordination"
 as contemplated by the Conditions of Contract, it became
 clear that the payment, provided for under Clause 110.6
 of the ATS, was for coordination, not for the extra time
 and the cost incurred thereby. The reliance, by the
 appellant, on the said Clause 110.6 of the ATS was,
 therefore, misplaced. (g) Following therefrom, the Arbitral Tribunal
 proceeded to examine the stipulation, in Item 18 of the FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 14 of 48 Contract Data, that "the contractor will not be entitled for
 any compensation for delay in cutting of trees, shifting of
 utilities and removal of encroachments by the service
 provider/concerned authorities, arranging the approvals
 and clearances from various authorities including
 railways‖, and the sustainability of the reliance, placed
 thereon by the appellant, thus: Clause 44.2 specifically provided for increasing the
 contract price, in the event of additional cost being
 incurred owing to compensation events. It was not open,
 therefore, to the Engineer, unilaterally, to change this FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 18 of 48 clause in the contract, by way of a letter, especially when
 the said letter was disputed. That apart, the act of the
 Engineer, in recommending Rs. 47.71 crores, to be
 payable to the respondent, in terms of Clause 44.3 of the
 Conditions of Contract, militated against the stipulation,
 regarding non-payment of costs, as contained in his letter
 dated 20th March 2010. (vi) Following upon the above discussion, the learned Arbitral
 Tribunal held that, of the various claims of the respondent, the
 following were tenable: However, it was held that the claim, of the
 respondent, towards "loss of earning capacity and profits
 on account of the extended period of contract" was not
 tenable. (vii) Having returned the above findings, regarding the various
 claims of the respondent, as contained in the Statement of Claim
 filed before it, the Arbitral Tribunal quantified the total amount
 (sans interest), payable to the respondent, to be Rs.
 69,98,36,300/-. The Tribunal further held the respondents to be
 entitled to simple interest, for the period 11th August 2009 to
 28th November 2014,@ 12% per annum, which worked out to
 Rs 44,50,95,800/-. 17 Counter-claims, preferred by the appellant before the learned
Arbitral Tribunal, were rejected. Inasmuch as, in the present appeal,
the appellant has not chosen to press the said counter-claims, nor
ventilated any such challenge during arguments before us, it would not
be necessary to refer, further, thereto. 18 It would be relevant to mention, here, that the Award of the
learned Arbitral Tribunal was rendered by a majority of two learned
Arbitrators to one. Equally, it is required to be noted that, vide a
subsequent order dated 15th December 2014, the learned Arbitral
Tribunal effected certain corrections in its award; these corrections,
however, were purely clerical in nature. The OMP, and orders passed thereon

19 The appellant, predictably, challenged the aforementioned
award, dated 29th November 2014, as corrected vide order dated 15th
December 2014, by way of OMP 260/2015. A preliminary objection FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 20 of 48 to the Award, to the effect that there had been no meeting of minds of
the learned Arbitrators before it was passed, was also taken. Vide
judgment dated 21st April 2015, the OMP was dismissed, both in
respect of the said preliminary objection as well as on merits.
However, in appeal, the Division Bench of this Court, vide judgment
dated 17th February 2016 rendered in FAO (OS) 383/2015, upheld the
decision of the learned Single Judge insofar as rejection of the
preliminary objection canvassed by the appellant was concerned, but
remitted the matter to the learned Single Judge for de novo
consideration on the merits thereof, as, in its view, the findings, on
merits, in the judgment, dated 21st April 2015, were "token in nature". 20 The impugned judgment, dated 24th January 2017, has been
passed pursuant to such de novo consideration on merits. 21 Of the claims, raised by the respondent and awarded by the
learned Arbitral Tribunal, the appellant limited its challenge, in the
OMP, to the awarding of Claims Nos 1, 2 and 3, towards "Additional
overhead expenses incurred over the extended period", "Additional
expenses on account of extended stay of plant and equipment on site
during the extended period", and "Financing charges (interest) on
account of delayed recovery of overheads and profits". Primarily, the
contentions advanced by the appellant, before the learned Single
Judge, on these claims, as set out in para 13 of the impugned
judgement, were the following: Shifting of utilities, etc., it was contended, did not constitute a
 "compensation event". These were contractual activities. (iii) The respondent had tendered for a lump sum amount,
 which covered, inter alia, delay in cutting of trees, shifting of
 utilities, and removal of encroachments. These could not,
 therefore, constitute "compensation events". (iv) Clauses 10, 11 and 12 of the contract required the
 respondent to bear the consequent effects of events which were
 unforeseen or activities which took a long time. (v) Clause 110 made the respondent responsible for
 coordination, obtaining requisite permission from the site
 provider, and making the site unencumbered. (vi) 878 days' EOT had been granted, by the appellant, on
 sympathetic grounds, and not on account of any delay or breach
 on its part. (vii) The finding, of the learned Arbitral Tribunal, that Item 18
 of the Contract Data was hit by Section 23 of the Indian
 Contract Act, 1872, amounted to rewriting the contract, which
 was impermissible. 22 Per contra, the respondent contended that it had not claimed
any amount relatable to Item 18 of the Contract Data, on account of
delay in cutting of trees, shifting of utilities and removal of
encroachments, as the period attributable thereto was of 242 days,
which had been rejected by the appellant, against which no challenge
had been laid by the respondent. The delay, for which claim had been
made by the respondent, was of 848 days, which had been
recommended by the Engineer and approved by the appellant. The
grievance, of the appellant, regarding the reliance, by the learned
Arbitral Tribunal, on Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, was
also, therefore, it was submitted, academic. 23 Having thus set out the rival contentions of both parties, the
learned Single Judge proceeded to dismiss the petition filed by the
appellant, returning, in the process, the following findings: (ii) The core issue was the extent to which the respondent
 was entitled to compensation as a result of the EOT granted by
 the appellant. The contention, of the respondent, before the
 Learned Single Judge, that the respondent had not claimed any
 amount for delay beyond 15th June, 2009, was found to be
 correct. The learned Appellate Tribunal had, on the basis of
 documents and calculations provided by the respondent which
 was supported by the certificate of a Chartered Accountant
 worked out the amount payable to the respondent. In doing so,
 the learned Tribunal had not allowed itself to be influenced by
 its finding that Item 18 of the Contract Data was violative of
 Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1897. (iii) The fact of the matter was that the appellant and
 respondent, had both accepted the determination of EOT by the FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 24 of 48 Engineer. Clearly, it was not open to the appellant to later
 challenge the said determination or the compensation claimed
 by the respondent on that basis. The learned Single Judge found
 the reliance, placed by the appellant, in this context, on the
 judgments of this Court in Kailash Nath & Associates v. New
 Delhi Municipal Committee 2002 (3) Arb. LR 631 (Del) (DB)
 to be misguided, as in the present case, there was no automatic
 presumption that the appellant was responsible for delay on
 account of grant of EOT, rather, the award was based on the
 approval of the Engineer as well as the appellant. (iv) The Hon'ble Supreme Court had, in Kailash Nath
 Associates v. DDA ( 2015) 4 SCC 136 and Associates Builders
 v. DDA (2015) 3 SCC 49, held that interference under Section
 34 of the Act, could be justified only where the award was
 perverse to the extent that it shocked the judicial conscience.
 This high threshold was not met by the challenge by the
 appellant, to the award. As such, the said challenge was found
 to be unmerited. (v) It was also sought to be urged, by the appellant, that the
 disputes determined by the learned Arbitral Tribunal were
 barred by Order 2 Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908.
 This submission was also found to be without substance, as the
 earlier arbitration, which was the foundation of the submission,
 was prior to completion of work, before the determination of
 EOT by the Engineer. The claim, in the present case, was
 rightly found, by the learned Arbitral Tribunal to have arisen FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 25 of 48 only after completion of the work on 14th May, 2009. The cause
 of action in the two arbitrations being different, no occasion
 arose, for Order 2 Rule 2 of the CPC to apply. (vi) The last submission of the appellant, examined by the
 learned Single Judge, was regarding the quantification of the
 claim of the respondent. The appellant had contended that no
 acceptable or credible evidence was available, to support such
 quantification. The learned Single Judge held, in this regard,
 that (a) Claim No.1 had been allowed on the basis of the
 Chartered Accountant's certificate produced by the
 respondent, by comparing overheads against the value of
 total work done, as a result whereof only 26% of the base
 cost of the work done was allowed, (b) Claim No.2 was decided on the basis of Minutes of
 Meetings of the progressive reports issued by the
 Engineer, showing the list of equipments deployed at the
 site on month-to-month basis, which was never
 questioned by the appellant, and (c) Claim No.3 was allowed on the basis of overheads
 computed at 26%. (vii) All these claims were, therefore, quantified on the basis
 of the evidence on record, which was considered in great detail.
 The appellant had not pointed out any such infirmity, as could
 render these findings, of the learned Arbitral Tribunal, opposed
 to the fundamental policy of Indian Law. For these reasons as already stated hereinabove, the impugned
 judgment, dated 24th January 2017, of the learned Single Judge,
 dismissed the OMP filed by the appellant under Section 34 of
 the Act. Costs of Rs 50,000/- were also imposed, on the
 appellant, in the process. The judgment in NHAI v. CEC-HCC JV: An EOT assessment table has been set out in para 9.5.5
 of the impugned majority Award. The majority Award
 noted that the EOT determined by the Engineer was
 accepted by the NHAI. Further, the majority Award
 noted that whereas the EOT determined by the Engineer
 was for 255 days, the EOT approved by the NHAI was
 only for 223 days limiting it to the date of completion of
 work. The Engineer had only considered those delays that
 were not attributable to the Respondent herein and had
 determined the EOT on that basis. The NHAI has also
 accepted the reasons given by the Engineer for the EOT.
 Accordingly the majority Award concluded that the
 extension of the contract period from 27th April, 2008 to
 5th December, 2008 was on account of delays/defaults of
 the NHAI and for reasons not attributable to the
 Respondent. 15. The Court is unable to discern any legal infirmity
 in the said factual finding based as it is on a proper
 appreciation of the evidence before the AT. The reliance
 placed by the NHAI on the decision in Kailash Nath &
 Associates v. New Delhi Municipal Committee (supra) is
 misplaced since in the present case the evidence has been
 discussed in detail by the majority to arrive at a definite
 conclusion that the NHAI was responsible for the delay in
 completion of the project. Interpretation of the TS Clauses FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 28 of 48 16. Mr Kapoor submitted that the majority Award
 erred in shifting the responsibility for removal of the
 encroachments on to NHAI. It selectively read Clauses
 110.3 and 110.6 of the Technical Specifications (‗TS'),
 which when read as a whole gave a different
 interpretation and meaning. He also referred to the
 minutes of the pre-bid meetings (PBMs), which showed
 that the attempts by the Respondent to have the above
 clauses changed was unsuccessful. This, according to
 him, distinguished the present case from the one in
 FAO(OS) No. 402/2014 ( National Highways Authority
 of India v. Hindustan Construction Company ) in which
 the DB gave a decision dated 24th February, 2016. 17. As regards the PBMs and the discussions with
 regard to the Clause 110 of the TS, Mr. Krishnan is right
 in his contention that the Respondent's responsibility as
 per this clause was limited only to co-ordinating with the
 service providers. It was indeed not the responsibility of
 the Respondent to actually ensure the removal of the
 encroachments by obtaining the permissions. The above
 findings of the majority Award are based on an analysis
 of the relevant clauses of the contract as well as the
 evidence on record. It is a plausible view to take. As
 explained by the Supreme Court in NHAI v. ITD
 Cementation India Limited (2015) 14 SCC 21, where it
 was observed as under: 18. It was next contended by Mr. Rajiv Kapoor that
 damages to the extent of Rs. 47 crore have been awarded
 which works out to more than 10% of the contract value.
 This was computed on the basis of a certificate of a
 Chartered Accountant (‗CA') engaged by the Respondent.
 According to Mr Kapoor this was arbitrary and
 unreasonable. He submitted that in terms of Section 73 of
 the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (‗ICA') the burden was on
 the Respondent to show that there was a breach by the
 NHAI of its obligations under the contract; that it had
 actually suffered losses as a result of such breach; and
 that it had mitigated the losses to the extent possible. 19. Mr Kapoor criticized the decision of the majority
 not to assign evidentiary value to the internal document
 (R6) written by the Engineer to NHAI while at the same
 time accepting the certificate of the CA engaged by the
 Respondent. This according to him showed the bias of the
 AT. 20. The Court does not view the majority Award in the
 manner suggested by Mr Kapoor. The majority Award
 was based on an appreciation of the evidence. The
 decision as to the weightage to be given to a document
 was for the AT to take. The Court does not sit in appeal
 over an Award. The Court is not expected to re-
 appreciate the evidence and interfere with the Award
 only because a different view is possible on an
 appreciation of the evidence. 21. In this regard the Court finds merit in the
 contention of Mr. Krishnan that the production of
 certificate of the CA was consistent with Section 65(g) of FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 30 of 48 the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . It was possible for the
 Respondent to lead secondary evidence on the aspect of
 finance and accounts and that is what the Respondent has
 done by producing the certificate of the CA. The decision
 of the DB of this Court in National Highways Authority
 of India v. Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. (supra)
 observed as follows in a more or less similar case: (supra) apply on all fours to the case on hand: 27 The above extracted paragraphs from the judgments of the
learned Single Judge, and the Division Bench in OMP (COMM.) and
FAO (OS) (COMM.) respectively, clearly indicate that the facts in that
case broadly parallelise the facts in the present case. In that case, too,
the claims of the contractor/claimant were based on cost and expenses
incurred on account of EOT which in turn was relatable to
"compensation events". There too, the claims, for EOT, and
consequent compensation, was recommended by the Engineer, and
subsequently reduced by the appellant. The claims were ultimately
allowed by the majority of the learned Arbitral Tribunal by relying
inter alia, on the Chartered Accountant's certificate produced by the
contractor. Clearly, the grounds on which the application under Section 34 of the Act was rejected, by the learned Single Judge and
subsequently by the Division Bench, in the said case, apply, mutatis
mutandis to the present case. 28 Mr.Rajiv Kapoor, appearing for the appellant very fairly did not
seek to contest the applicability, to the present case, of the decision in FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 36 of 48 M/s. NHAI v. M/s. Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd., beyond a
reasonable point. Legal position in re. Section 34 29 Sub-section (1) of Section 34 of the Act, which is relevant,
reads thus: section (2) and sub-section (3). (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the
 Court only if-- (a) the party making the application
 furnishes proof that-- (i) a party was under some
 incapacity, or (ii) the arbitration agreement is not
 valid under the law to which the
 parties have subjected it or, failing
 any indication thereon, under the law
 for the time being in force; or (iii) the party making the
 application was not given proper
 notice of the appointment of an
 arbitrator or of the arbitral
 proceedings or was otherwise unable
 to present his case; or FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 37 of 48 (iv) the arbitral award deals with a
 dispute not contemplated by or not
 falling within the terms of the
 submission to arbitration, or it
 contains decisions on matter beyond
 the scope of the submission to
 arbitration: Provided that, if the decisions on
 matters submitted to arbitration can
 be separated from those not so
 submitted, only that part of the
 arbitral award which contains
 decisions on matters not submitted to
 arbitration may be set aside; or (v) the composition of the arbitral
 tribunal or the arbitral procedure was
 not in accordance with the agreement
 of the parties, unless such agreement
 was in conflict with a provision of this
 Part from which the parties cannot
 derogate, or, failing such agreement,
 was not in accordance with this Past; or (b) the Court finds that-- (i) the subject-matter of the dispute
 is not capable of settlement by
 arbitration under the law for the time
 being in force, or (ii) the arbitral award is in conflict
 with the public policy of India. Explanation 1.-- For the avoidance of
 any doubt, it is clarified that an award FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 38 of 48 is in conflict with the public policy of
 India, only if,-- (i) the making of the award was
 induced or affected by fraud or
 corruption or was in violation of
 section 75 or section 81; or (ii) it is in contravention with the
 fundamental policy of Indian law; or (iii) it is in conflict with the most
 basic notions of morality or justice. Explanation 2.-- For the avoidance of
 doubt, the test as to whether there is a
 contravention with the fundamental
 policy of Indian law shall not entail a
 review on the merits of the dispute.‖

30 It needs no great insight to discern that the scope of judicial
review, with an arbitral award, as conceptualized and adumbrated by Section 34 of the Act, is extremely narrow. Judicial pronouncements
thereon are, by now, legion. Meandering through the bylanes of
judicial thought on the issue, it is possible to discern a carefully
expansive evolution of the law, conditioned, no doubt, by the felt need
at different points of time. 31 D.D.A. v R.S.Sharma & Co. , (2008) 13 SCC 80, held that an
arbitral award would be susceptible to judicial interference, if it is (i)
contrary to substantive provisions of law (including the provisions of
the Act itself), (ii) against the terms of the contract, (iii) patently FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 39 of 48 illegal, (iv) prejudicial to the rights of the parties, (v) contrary to (a)
the fundamental policy of India law, or (b) the interest of India, or (c)
justice or morality, or (vi) so unfair and unreasonable that it shocks
the conscience of the court. 32 As against this, Mc Dermott International Inc. v Burn
Standard Co. Ltd , (2006) 11 SCC 81 held that (i) the supervisory role of courts, over arbitral awards, under the
1996 Act, was ―only to ensure fairness‖, (ii) "intervention of court‖ was ―envisaged‖ only in ―few
circumstances ... like ... fraud or bias by the arbirators, violation of
natural justice, etc.", (iii) ―the court cannot correct errors of the arbitrators‖, (iv) ―patent illegality‖ could constitute a ground for interference if
it went ―to the root of the matter‖, (v) ―public policy violation‖, similarly, could justify interference
only if it was ‗so unfair and unreasonable as to shock the conscience
of the court‖; for this purpose ―the pleadings of the parties and the
materials brought on record would be relevant to enable the court to
judge what is in public good or public interest, and what would
otherwise be injurious to the public good at the relevant point, as
contradistinguished from the policy of a particular Government‖, (vi) ―an award which is, on the face of it, patently in violation of
statutory provisions cannot be said to be in public interest, as. Such
award/judgment/decision is likely to adversely affect the
administration of justice, and FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 40 of 48 (vii) awards which were beyond the dispute referred for arbitration,
or suffered from internal contraditions, were also pervious to
interference. 33 N.H.A.I. v J.S.C. Centrodorstroy, (2016) 12 SCC 592, though
it broke no new ground so far as the circumstances justifying
invocation of Section 34 of the Act were concerned, did sound a note
of caution, that "construction of the terms of a contract is primarily
for an arbitrator or Arbitral Tribunal to decide and unless the
arbitrator or Arbitral Tribunal construes the contract in such a way
that no fair minded or reasonable person could do, no interference by
Court is called for.‖ Similarly, M. Ansuya Devi v M. Manik Reddy ,
(2003) 8 SCC 565 draws our attention to the apparent truism that an
arbitral award can be challenged, under the Act, only on one or more
of the grounds set out in Section 34 , and no other. 34. The oft-quoted decision in N.H.A.I. v I.T.D. Cementation India
Ltd , (2015) 14 SCC 21, highlights the autonomy of the arbitrator, in
the matter of construction of the terms of the contract between the
parties (relying, in the process, on the earlier decisions in McDermott
International v. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. , (2006) 11 SCC 181, Pure
Helium India (P) Ltd. v. O.N.G.C., (2003) 8 SCC 593, D.D. Sharma
v. U.O.I., ( 2004) 5 SCC 325, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Dewan
Chand Ram Saran , (2012) 5 SCC 306, Sumitomo Heavy Industries
Ltd. v. ONGC Ltd., ( 2010) 11 SCC 296, Associate Builders v. DDA ,
(2015) 3 SCC 49), in the following words: 35 To the same effect are the decisions in Swan Gold Mining Ltd v
Hindustan Copper Ltd , ( 2015) 5 SCC 739 and Navodaya Mass
Entertainment Ltd v J.M. Combines , (2015) 5 SCC 398. The latter
judgement also underscores the position that the possibility of
adopting a view, different from that adopted by the arbitrator, would
not, by itself, justify interference under Section 34 of the Act. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (supra) expresses the same thought,
differently, by postulating that, if the view of the arbitrator were a
possible, if not a plausible, view, the court should shun interference
therewith. 36 Associated Builders v. DDA , (2015) 3 SCC 49, may justifiably
be christened as the high watermark in the law relating to Section 34 of the Act, and any attempt to paraphrase the decision is fraught with
the risk of mutilation. The decision is, almost entirely, definitively
authorative, and brooks no ambiguity or anomaly. Nonetheless, in
view of the proliferation of litigation, challenging arbitral awards, in
recent times, we have, in a recent decision, dated 10th August 2017, in Shiam Cooperative Group v Kamal Construction Co. Ltd , extracted, FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 42 of 48 in extenso, the relevant paragraphs from the said decision , and
respectfully culled, therefrom, the following clear principles: Errors of fact cannot be corrected under Section 34 . The
 arbitrator is the last word on facts. 37 Apart from the fact that the controversy in the present case
stands substantially covered, in favour of the respondent and against
the appellant, by the judgments in N.H.A.I. v C.E.C.-H.C.C. J.V. (supra) (of the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench),
we are also entirely in agreement with the findings of the learned
Arbitral Tribunal. We have taken pains to set out the said findings, to
the extent they are relevant for the purpose of deciding the present
appeal, in such detail hereinabove, only to highlight the elaborate and
painstaking exercise undertaken by the learned Arbitrators who
constituted the majority of the Arbitral Tribunal. The analysis of the
facts, and the law, by the learned Arbitral Tribunal, is comprehensive FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 46 of 48 and thorough, and we fail to discern any such infirmity, therein, as
would justify interference, therewith, under Section 34 of the Act. 38 Having thus accorded the arbitral award, and, consequently, the
impugned judgment of the learned Single Judge, our imprimatur, we
proceed to examine the issue of costs of Rs.50,000/- awarded by the
learned Single Judge. Learned Counsel for the appellant exhorts us to
do away with the costs imposed by the learned Single Judge, pressing
into service, for the said purpose, the reasonableness exhibited by the
appellant in accepting the applicability, to the present appeal, the
decision in N.H.A.I. v C.E.C.-H.C.C. Joint Venture (supra). We
have already expressed our appreciation for the fairness of learned
Counsel in this regard. At the same time, we find this court to be
inundated by challenges, against arbitral awards, by public sector
undertakings - many of which are initiated by the present appellant -
seeking re-appreciation of the findings of the arbitrator by entirely re-
examining the evidence or re-interpreting the clauses of the contract.
Such litigation defeats the very purpose for which the Act was
conceived. We have seen, even before this Bench, several appeals,
against orders which the learned Single Judge, who passed the
impugned order in the present case, has had to pass, rejecting
applications filed by public sector undertakings under Section 34 of
the Act, which basically seek to convert this court into a court of
appeal over the decision of the arbitral tribunal. It is apparently with a
view to control the filing of such applications, and to confer greater
sanctity to arbitral proceedings under the Act, that the learned Single FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 47 of 48 Judge has been constrained to impose, on the appellant, the costs
which stand imposed by the impugned judgment. We do not deem it
appropriate to interfere therewith. 39 Consequently, the present appeal fails and is accordingly
dismissed. 40 The respondent shall be entitled to costs of this appeal which
are assessed at Rs.1,00,000/-. 41 In the process of filing the untenable objections, the NHAI has
compounded its liability and stands burdened with interest. All these
amounts are payable out of the public exchequer, just as the liability
towards the further interest as well as the costs. 42. In view of the order passed on the appeal, this application is
also dismissed. C.HARI SHANKAR, J. ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE

September 11, 2017
neelam FAO (OS) 116/2017 Page 48 of 48