SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Are these IT scams running in india openly with government approval?
DATE: 2025-03-06
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1j4cxfn/are_these_it_scams_running_in_india_openly_with/

--- POST TEXT ---

(WhatsApp screenshot of a former intern trainer who got fired)

The above screenshot is from a friend of mine who got into a company Einfratech systems India. This company hired him through a 3 months college program run by a organisation namely Nasscom (National Association of Software and Service Companies is an Indian non-governmental trade association and advocacy group that primarily serves the Indian technology industry.

Founded in 1988, NASSCOM operates as a nonprofit organization and serves as a key entity within the Indian technology sector.).

While he was in program he was getting skills for cybersecurity along with his 120+ classmates. After 3 months placements started and there were a number of companies willing to take them in. As per my friend the questions were easy and mostly were designed to check ones confidence and english.

My friend got selected in Einfratech systems 2 months ago. Company promised Paid internship, work laptop, work from office with other benefits like any other company does.

After joining the HR seemed confused about the how the onboarding is going to go. They didn't respond to queries of the new joiners. After a month of no information about company's legitimacy and onboarding process, one of the intern send out the mail to various government/non government organisations for help or complaint.

After this incident they found out about the person who used fake name and fired him along with who ever raised concerns about the legitimacy of the company.

It's been two months, no one has received any salary slips yet, they are willingly giving impossible time consuming tasks with 1 hr deadline and saying that they will share a warning mails with people who fail to complete the designated tasks. Whoever received the warning mail is not going to get any salary for the month.

According to my friend, The work they are getting during this internship period is mostly related to their company's website which they are referring to as "client". Seems like they are going to get their work done and fire them all, free labour i suppose.

Deliberately delaying task and last minute work to make a list of people who didn't complete the task on time and keeping their salaries on hold.

I wonder what else is happening under Governments nose in the name of Non-profit.

Please share your advice and suggestions.