- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 1. Facts in brief as unfolded from the charge-sheet are as
under:- Bibianus Toppo, the then Superintendent (hereinafter, "A1") and
Harbhajan Yadav, the then UDC ("A2") who were working in Regional
Passport Office (in short RPO), New Delhi, entered into a criminal
conspiracy with private persons namely Hemant Gandhi ("A6") and
other unknown persons, object of which was to cheat RPO, New Delhi
fraudulently and dishonestly. It was alleged that in pursuance of the
said conspiracy, four passports in the form of additional passport
booklets were got issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri; one
additional passport was got issued in the name of Neha Suri and
another additional passport booklet was got issued in the name of
Dashrath Suri. It was alleged that though on the additional passport
booklets, photograph of different persons were affixed, yet the
personal particulars of the above said persons were mentioned on the
Passport Application Forms. It was further alleged that at the time of
seeking above said additional passport booklets, detail of original
passport of Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri and Mr. Dashrath
Suri were used. It was further alleged that the original passport
bearing No. B-1792351 dated June 5, 2000 was issued in the name of
Harbans Lal Suri whereas the passport bearing No. E-1928694 dated
June 12, 2002 was issued in the name of Ms. Neha Suri and passport
bearing No. A-8483983 dated December 20, 1999 was issued in the
name of Mr. Dashrath Suri. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ii) It was further alleged that an application was moved in
the office of RPO, New Delhi for seeking additional passport booklet in
the name of Harbans Lal Suri on the ground that pages of previous
passport had been full. Alongwith the application, photocopy of original
passport bearing No. B-1792351 dated June 5, 2000 was also
annexed. It was alleged that during investigation, it was revealed that
all pages of previous passports had not been full. It was further
alleged that though in the application form, personal particulars of
Harbans Lal Suri were mentioned, but the photograph of another
person was affixed on the application form. It was alleged that A2 was
posted as a counter clerk and it was his duty to cancel the old
passport but he had not done so. A2 had taken the application to A1
for fixing the date of delivery of additional passport booklet,
accordingly, A1 fixed the date of delivery as February 5, 2004. (iii) It was further alleged that during investigation it was
revealed that the said form was not only filled up by accused Anil
Dhawan (A4) but he also signed the form in the name of 'H. Lal' and
this fact has been confirmed by GEQD. It was further alleged that in
the said matter, HIT was cleared by accused Ram Chander (A3). It
was further alleged that A3 did not report that there was variation in
the photograph of applicant and the original passport holder. He also
failed to point out the variation in the signature of applicant and
original passport holder. (iv) It was alleged that during investigation, it was
revealed that on the basis of said application, additional passport
bearing No. E-7710049 was issued on February 5, 2004 to the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 5 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. applicant in the name of Harbans Lal Suri, which was received by A4
after putting signature in the passport delivery register in the name of
'H. Lal'. (v) It was alleged that during investigation, the identity of
the person in whose favour the said additional passport booklet was
issued in the name of H. Lal was identified as Suraj s/o Baba Mal R/o
H. No. 1094, Sector 14, Faridabad. It was alleged that the air ticket for
Mr. Suraj was arranged by accused Hemant Gandhi (A6) for Frankfurt. (vi) It was alleged that during investigation, it was
revealed that on August 20, 2004, Amit Kumar Khatri (A7) cousin of A6
accompanied Suraj and his daughter Kristina, who travelled on the
forged passports issued in the name of H.Lal and Neha Suri. It was
further alleged that additional passport booklets were collected by
Amit Kumar Khatri (A7) from Mr. Suraj and his daughter Ms. Kristina at
Frankfurt and the same were handed over by A7 to A6 in Delhi. 2. It was alleged that during investigation, it was revealed
that another additional passport booklet bearing No. E-7988967 dated
March 11, 2004 in the name of H. Lal was got issued fraudulently from
RPO, New Delhi with a photograph of different person, but on the
personal particulars of Harbans Lal Suri. The application qua the said
additional passport booklet was also dealt with by A2 being the
counter clerk and A1 being the Superintendent. HIT clearance was
also given by A3 in the said application. (i) It was further alleged that Anil Dhawan (A4) had CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 6 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. submitted the application for issuance of the above said additional
passport booklet in the name of Harbans Lal Suri on the ground that
the pages of previous passport had been full. He also enclosed self
attested photocopy of original passport bearing No. B-1792351. The
additional passport booklet was sought on Tatkal basis on the ground
that the applicant had to attend the wedding of daughter of his friend
in Germany on March 13, 2004. This time also the photo of another
person was used at the time of seeking additional passport booklet. It
was alleged that though as per procedure, photocopy of last additional
passport booklet was required to be enclosed, but the applicant had
enclosed the photocopy of original passport bearing No. B-1792351. It
was alleged that A2 being the counter clerk did not report the
discrepancy in the application; rather he accepted the same. It was
further alleged that A2 returned the old passport without cancelling the
same. It was alleged that A1 ordered to issue the additional passport
booklet on March 11, 2004 without ensuring to enclose the photocopy
of previous passport booklet. It was further alleged that the HIT
clearance was given by A3. (ii) It was further alleged that during investigation, it was
revealed that A4 had filled up the application form. It was further
alleged that the said additional passport booklet was collected by A4
and same was delivered to him by A2. At the time of taking the
delivery, A4 signed in passport delivery register as H. Lal. (iii) It was alleged that the identity of the person in whose
favour the said additional passport was got issued in the name of
Harbans Lal Suri could not be ascertained. But it was revealed that air CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 7 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. ticket and visa for that person was arranged by A6 and the said
person travelled from Delhi to Frankfurt by Flight No. HY-422 on April
6,2004. 3. It was alleged that third application for seeking
additional passport booklet in the name of Harbans Lal Suri was
moved in the office of RPO, New Delhi on May 26, 2004 on the
ground that the pages of original passport had been full. The applicant
also enclosed the photocopy of original passport booklet bearing No.
B-1792351 dated June 5, 2000. It was alleged that though the
personal particulars of Harbans Lal Suri were mentioned in the
passport application form but the photograph of another person was
affixed. The said file was also dealt with by A2, A1 and A3 in the same
manner as they dealt with earlier applications. Accordingly, third
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-8580773 was issued in the
name of Harbans Lal Suri on May 28, 2004. (i) It was further alleged that the application form qua the
said applicant was also filled up by A4 and he had also taken the
delivery of the said additional passport booklet from A2 after signing in
the passport delivery register as 'H.Lal'. (ii) It was alleged that the said additional passport booklet
was recovered at the instance of Hemant Gandhi (A6) from which it
was revealed that passport holder did not perform any journey on the
said additional passport booklet as no visa was granted to him. The
identity of the applicant could not be ascertained. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 4. It was alleged that on June 9, 2004 another application
was moved in the office of RPO, New Delhi for seeking additional
passport booklet in the name of Harbans Lal Suri on the ground that
pages of previous passport had been full. The personal particulars of
applicant in the said application were similar to that of Harbans Lal
Suri but the photograph of different person was affixed. This time also
applicant had enclosed the photocopy of original passport bearing No.
B-1792351. (i) It was alleged that the said application was also dealt
with by A2, A1 and A3 and they adopted the same modus operandi to
clear the application, accordingly, the additional passport bearing No.
E-8914602 was issued to the applicant in the name of Harbans Lal
Suri on June 11, 2004. The delivery of the said additional passport
booklet was also taken by A4 from A2 after signing in the passport
delivery register as 'H.Lal'. (ii) It was alleged that during investigation, it was revealed
that Dhiraj Bansal (A5) had collected 12 passport size photographs of
Davender Singh s/o Dalip from Ashok Kumar @ Bittoo, a travel agent
of Batala, Punjab. Davender Singh had also given his original
passport bearing No. B-5677702 issued from RPO, Jallandhar to A5
for getting visa of UK. But A5 arranged additional passport booklet for
Davender Singh in the name of Harbans Lal Suri by using his
photograph and submitted the same in the Visa Facilitation Service of
British High Commission, New Delhi. It was alleged that when this fact
came to the knowledge of Davender Singh, he did not turn up for
interview in the British High Commission, consequently, the said CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 9 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. additional passport booklet remained with British High Commission,
New Delhi. During investigation, the said passport was collected
through MEA, from which it was revealed that the original passport in
the name of Harbans Lal Suri bearing No. B-1792531 was also
enclosed with this additional passport booklet. But the photograph in
the original passport was replaced with the photograph of Davender
Singh. However, no journey was performed on the said additional
passport booklet. 5. It was further alleged that application for seeking
additional passport booklet in the name of Ms. Neha Suri was moved
on February 5, 2004 on the ground that pages of previous passport
had been full. Along with the application, photocopy of previous
passport issued in the name of Ms. Neha Suri bearing No. E-1928694
was annexed. But the photograph of different person was used. It was
alleged that the old passport was required to be cancelled before
returning it to the applicant. During investigation, the said additional
passport booklet was recovered from A6, from which it was revealed
that most of the pages were blank and the same was not cancelled by
the counter clerk i.e. A2. The order for issuance of additional passport
booklet was passed by A1 and in the said case also HIT clearance
was given by A3 without pointing out the discrepancy in the
photograph of applicant and passport holder. (i) It was alleged that on the basis of said application,
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-7710129 was granted by A1
on February 6, 2004 and same was delivered to the applicant on the
same day. During investigation, it was revealed that the delivery of the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 10 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. said additional passport booklet was also taken by A4 after putting
signature in the name of Ms. Neha Suri in the passport delivery
register. (ii) It was alleged that during investigation it was revealed
that the photograph of Ms. Kristina, daughter of Suraj was affixed
while seeking additional passport booklet in the name of Ms. Neha
Suri. As already stated that Ms. Kristina travelled Frankfurt alongwith
his father Suraj and A7 accompanied them. It was also alleged that
A7 had collected the passport from Ms. Kristina and her father and
gave the same to A6 in Delhi. 6. It was further alleged that on April 6, 2004, another
application for seeking additional passport booklet in the name of
Dasrath Suri was moved in the office of RPO, New Delhi on the
ground that pages of previous passport had been full. Though the
photocopy of original passport bearing No. A-8483983 dated
December 20, 1999, which was issued in the name of Dashrath Suri
was annexed with the application, yet the photograph of different
person was used. It was further alleged that Dashrath Suri was minor
when the original passport was issued to him in the year 1999. But in
the application form, the photograph of major person was used. It was
alleged that the said application form was also dealt with by A2 being
the counter clerk but he did not cancel the original passport and this
fact was revealed when the original passport was recovered during
investigation. It was further alleged that the additional passport booklet
bearing No. E8583770 dated April 8, 2004 was also received by A4
after putting signature in the name of Dashrath Suri in the passport CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 11 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. delivery register. No journey was performed on the said passport. It
was further alleged that the original as well as additional passport
booklet were recovered from accused Hament Gandhi (A6). 7. It was alleged that accused persons namely A1 to A7
had entered into a criminal conspiracy with Suraj, Kristina and
Harbans Lal Suri, object of which was to obtain additional passport
booklets fraudulently on the basis of false and forged documents. It
was alleged that Suraj and Ms. Kristina could not be traced out during
investigation as it was revealed that they were living somewhere in
Germany. Similarly, accused Harbans Lal Suri also could not be traced
out as he had left India on October 20, 2000. 8. After completing investigation, chargesheet was filed
against A1 to A7 for the offence punishable under Section 120B IPC
read with Section 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC and Section 13 (2) read
with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, 1988 and 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act,
1967 and substantive offences thereto. Name of Suraj, Kristina and
Harbans Lal Suri were mentioned in column no. 2. 9. Necessary sanction was also obtained under Section
19 of PC Act in respect of A1, A2 and A3 whereas sanction under Section 15 of Passport Act, 1967 was obtained in respect of A1 to A7
and accused Suraj, Kristina and Harbans Lal Suri. 10. Vide order dated May 29, 2010, Court of Sh. Rajnish
Bhatnagar, the then Ld. Special Judge-01 CBI held that prima-facie a
case is made out against A1 to A7 for the offence punishable under CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 12 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Section 120B IPC read with Section 419 / 420 / 467 / 468 & 471 IPC and Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, 1988 and 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, 1967 . It was further held that prima-facie a case is
also made out against A1 to A3 for the offence punishable under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act, 1988. It was
also held that prima-facie a case is also made out against A4 for the
offence punishable under Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC. It was further
held that prima-facie a case is also made out against A1 for the
offence punishable under Section 467 IPC. (i) Pursuance to the above said order, formal charges
were framed against accused persons on July 20, 2010, to which they
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 11. Vide order dated May 5, 2016, accused Hemant
Gandhi (A6) was declared absconded. 12. In order to bring home the guilt of accused persons,
prosecution has examined as many as 46 witnesses. For the purpose
of discussion and convenience, all the witnesses have been classified
in the following categories:- the accused persons except Bibianus Toppo (A1) and Dhiraj Bansal
(A5) submitted that they would not lead evidence in their defence. (a) A1 took the plea that at the relevant time there was no
facility in the computer of PIAs to check photographs, signatures and
old references of applicants. Even, previous passport files did not use
to be sent to PIAs for perusal and inspection and no instrument/device
was provided to PIAs to detect forgery in the submitted documents. (i) It was further submitted that at the relevant time, the
procedure for issuance of additional passport booklet was liberalised
by the Ministry of External Affairs by issuing various circulars from time
to time and it was impressed upon the PIAs to issue additional
passport booklets within 3-5 days preferably on the same day. It was
submitted that since in the files in question, there was no adverse
remark either from HIT/PAC or from any other section of Passport
Office, he acted on the files believing his subordinates. It was further
submitted that passport could not be issued without the HIT clearance. (ii) It was further submitted that even prosecution witness
PW9 Mr. S. P. Kothari and PW38 Raj Singh supported his version by
deposing that the files dealt with by him were complete in all respects
and he had acted in routine manner. (iii) It was further submitted that at the relevant time he
was over burdened as at that time he was also looking after the
miscellaneous work besides the work of additional passport booklets
and he used to deal with around 300 files in a day. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iv) It was further submitted that there is no evidence that
he was in conspiracy with the accused persons and this is also
established from the fact that on the days when he was on leave or
not available, counter clerk used to send the files to the other PIA,
who used to deal with the files in his absence in the similar way. It was
further submitted that no action had been taken by the CBI against the
other PIA/staff who acted in similar manner in other similar files. (b) A2 took the plea that no instrument was provided to
the counter clerk to detect forgery in the documents submitted by the
applicants. It was further submitted that applicants did not mention
whether it was the first additional passport booklet or second or third
or fourth additional passport booklet. It was submitted that being the
counter clerk, he had been cheated by the applicants. (c) A3 took the plea that while he was performing his duty
in the HIT Section, his seat was in open space where there was no
restriction of entry either for public or RPO officials. It was submitted
that some vested interested person might have noted down his
password while opening the computer and later on he might have
misused the same. It was further submitted that PE number was
known to NIC official. (d) A4 took the plea that CBI falsely implicated him in this
case in order to save the main accused G. S. Walia. It was alleged
that DSP Mr. R. K. Aggarwal was known to G. S. Walia and he is still
in touch with him. It was further submitted that even Mr. G. S. Walia is
still providing air tickets to Mr. R. K. Aggarwal. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (e) A5 took the plea that he has been falsely implicated in
this case and he had not undertaken any passport and visa work as
alleged by the CBI. (f) A7 took the plea that he has been falsely implicated in
this case as he had not committed any offence. He further submitted
that he had not undertaken any passport or visa work. Nor he booked
any ticket in the present matter. It was further submitted that he did not
know Harbans Lal Suri, Sh. Dashrath Suri and Ms. Neha Suri or any
other applicant. He further submitted that nothing incriminating was
recovered from his possession. 14. In order to prove his innocence, A5 examined DW1
Mr. Sameer Vats whereas A1 examined two witnesses namely DW2
Sonu Bhardwaj, Ahlmad of this Court and DW3 Mr. Prince Raushan,
Junior Passport Asstt. posted at RPO office, Bhikaji Kama Palace,
Delhi. 15. I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel
for both the parties at length, perused the record carefully including
the written submissions filed on behalf of A1 and A5 and gave my
thoughtful consideration to their contentions. Contentions relating to accused Anil Dhawan (A4):- 16. Shri Prabhat Kumar, learned Senior Public Prosecutor
for CBI raised the following contentions:- The said acknowledgments are separately marked as Q9, Q24, Q39,
Q55, Q71 and Q87. It was argued that as per the report of GEQD, all
the said writings except Q87 were found in the handwriting of A4, CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 20 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. which establishes that A4 had taken the delivery of the said passport
booklets. It was further argued that during investigation, specimen
writings and signatures of A4 had also been taken and the same are
marked as S1 to S53. As per the GEQD report, the same were tallied
with the questioned writings and signatures. (iv) That from the deposition of PW36 and GEQD report
Ex.PW40/C, it has been established that A4 had not only filled up the
forms at the time of obtaining addition passport booklets in fictitious
names, but he had also forged the signatures of applicants on the said
forms as well as on the supporting documents. (v) That accused Anil Dhawan (A4) is liable for the
offence punishable under Section 419 / 420 / 471 IPC and Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act . 17. Mr. Lalit Yadav, Advocate, counsel appearing for the
Anil Dhawan (A4) countered the said contentions as under:- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 18. In support of his contentions, learned defence counsel
placed reliance on the following citations:- examination, PW36 clarified that he had only one employee i.e. A4 in
his firm. He further deposed that he had not furnished any
documentary evidence regarding the employment of A4 to the CBI. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. But mere fact that PW36 did not supply any documentary evidence
regarding the employment of A4, in the absence of any contrary
evidence, is not sufficient to disbelieve the testimony of PW36. (ii) In his cross-examination, PW36 deposed that CBI
official told him, if A4 could not be arrested, they (CBI) would arrest
him. He further deposed that CBI had released him as the files which
were shown to him during investigation were in the handwriting of
accused Anil Dhawan and he had no concern with the said files. (iii) No doubt, learned counsel appearing for A4 took the
plea that CBI had impleaded A4 at the behest of PW36, but during trial
A4 failed to produce any cogent evidence to prove the same. On the
contrary from the deposition of PW36, it becomes clear that CBI told
PW36 that if A4 could not be arrested, they would arrest him. This
shows that there was some relationship between PW36 and A4 and
the said relationship has been explained by PW36 in his deposition. (iv) No doubt, PW46 Somraj Thakur, investigating officer
in his cross-examination deposed that he had not taken any document
from G.S. Walia about the employment of accused Anil Dhawan. But
as already stated that the said lapse on the part of PW46 is not
sufficient to discard the testimony of PW36. (v) No doubt, accused Anil Dhawan in his statement
recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C took the plea that he has been
falsely implicated in this case by the CBI at the behest of G.S. Walia,
but in his entire statement, he did not explain where he was working, if CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 25 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. he was not working with G.S. Walia. Further, there is no explanation
how G.S. Walia knew him, if he was not an employee of PW36. In his
entire statement, he did not explain the same. (vi) In the absence of any contrary evidence on record, I
do not find any reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW36 wherein
he categorically deposed that A4 was his employee since 1995. 20. Second question crops up for adjudication whether
the recovered 'Day Book' belonged to M/s Jas Air or not? If yes, from
whom the same was recovered. In this regard, the testimony of PW36
Mr. G. S. Walia is relevant. (i) PW36 Mr. Gurinder Singh Walia in his cross-
examination fairly conceded that the Day Book Ex.PW36/F was
recovered by the CBI during the raid conducted by CBI at his
premises and further admitted that there was no stamp of his firm on
the said Day Book and further admitted that the said Day Book was
written in the handwriting of several persons including him. He also
admitted that such type of Day Books are easily available in the
market. He also admitted the search memo Ex.PW36/D1 and deposed
that all the documents mentioned therein including Day Book were
recovered from his premises by the CBI. From the aforesaid
deposition of PW36 Mr. Gurinder Singh Walia, it becomes crystal clear
that a raid was conducted by the CBI at his premises and during the
said raid, several documents as mentioned in the memo Ex.PW36/D1
including Day Book (Ex.PW36/F) were recovered. Mere fact that no
seal of M/s Jas Air is appearing on the said Day Book and the fact that CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 26 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. such Day Books are easily available in the market are not itself
sufficient to discard the testimony of PW36 Mr. Gurinder Singh Walia
to the extent that the recovered Day Book belonged to his firm. (ii) In view of the above discussion, I do not find any
substance in the contention of learned defence counsel that there is
no cogent evidence to prove that the Day Book belonged to M/s Jas
Air. 21. Third question emerges from the submissions raised
by counsel for the parties; whether PW36 is a competent person to
identify the handwriting of A4 or not? (i) As already discussed that A4 was an employee in the
firm/company of PW36 since 1995, thus PW36 had sufficient
opportunity to see A4 to write and sign. Thus the testimony of PW36
wherein he identified certain handwritings of A4 becomes relevant
under Section under Section 47 of Indian Evidence which reads as
under:- When the Court has to form an opinion as to the
 person by whom any document was written or
 signed, the opinion of any person acquainted with the
 handwriting of the person by whom it is supposed to
 be written or signed that it was or was not written or
 signed by that person, is a relevant fact. Explanation - A person is said to be acquainted with
 the handwriting of another person when he has seen
 that person write, or when he has received
 documents purporting to be written by that person in
 answer to documents written by himself or under
 authority and addressed to that person, or when, in CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 27 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the ordinary course of business, documents
 purporting to be written by that person have been
 habitually submitted to him. (emphasis supplied) 22. In view of Section 47 of Indian Evidence Act, I do not
find any substance in the contention raised by learned defence
counsel that since PW36 is not an expert, no reliance can be placed
on his deposition wherein he identified certain writings of Anil Dhawan
(A4). 23. Now coming to the next issue how many questioned
writings of A4 have been identified by Mr. Gurinder Singh Walia
(PW36) during trial? (i) PW36 in his examination-in-chief identified certain
following questioned writings as the writing of accused Anil Dhawan
(A4):- Q23A, Q24, Q26, Q27, Q29, Q38, Q39, Q41, Q42, Q44, Q54, Q57, CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 29 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Q58, Q60, Q70, Q73, Q74, Q75, Q77, Q86, Q89, Q89/1, Q90, Q92)
are the writings in the body portion of the Passport Application
Registration Forms and Application Forms for Miscellaneous Services
on Indian Passport. The questioned writings (Q50, Q62 and Q98) are
the writings in the body portion of the request letters. PW36 identified
the said writings as the writings of accused Anil Dhawan. This proves
that the said forms were filled up by accused Anil Dhawan and it also
establishes that the three request letters were written by accused Anil
Dhawan. (iii) Besides that PW36 also identified the signatures i.e.
Q51, Q52, Q63, Q64 and Q99 appearing on the request letters as the
writings of accused Anil Dhawan. This further establishes that accused
had signed the said request letters in the name of applicant i.e. H. Lal. (iv) Though CBI has set up a case that accused Anil
Dhawan had not only filled up the said forms, but he also signed all
the forms in the name of applicants at various places and in the said
forms, the said signatures are marked as Q7, Q10, Q13, Q15 to Q22
(Ex.PW3/F), Q23, Q25, Q28, Q30 to Q36 (Ex.PW3/Q), Q37, Q40,
Q43, Q45 to Q49 (Ex.PW3/N), Q53, Q56, Q59, Q61, Q65 to Q68
(Ex.PW3/L), Q69, Q72, Q76, Q78 to Q84 (Ex.PW7/J), Q85, Q88, Q91,
Q93 to Q97, Q100 (Ex.PW3/G), but in his examination-in-chief, PW36
deposed that he is not sure whether the said questioned signatures
were in the handwritings of accused Anil Dhawan or not. This
establishes that the testimony of PW36 is not sufficient to prove that
A4 had also signed the said forms in the name of applicants. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (v) In his cross-examination, PW36 deposed that accused
Anil Dhawan had filled up 1-2 forms of his clients in his presence and
admitted that the forms in files Ex.PW3/F, Ex.PW3/L, Ex.PW3/N,
Ex.PW3/Q, Ex.PW3/G and Ex.PW7/J were not filled up in his
presence. No doubt, the said forms were not filled up in his presence,
but as already discussed that A4 was working in the employment of
PW36 since 1995. Thus PW36 had sufficient opportunity to see A4 to
write and sign. Mere fact that the said forms were not filled up in the
presence of PW36 is not sufficient to discard the testimony of PW36
wherein he identified the handwritings of A4. (vi) Further, from the deposition of PW36, it becomes
clear that he had only identified body portion of the forms and not
signatures of the applicants appearing on the said forms. This shows
that the witness is quite fair while deposing in the Court. Had he be
dishonest, he would have easily identified the questioned signatures
also. In these circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that there
is no reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW36 wherein he identified
the writings of A4 on the above said forms and request letters.
Besides the above, PW36 also identified the writings i.e. Q1 to Q6
appearing on the passport delivery register. The said writings includes
the particulars of applicants, additional passport booklet number and
the signature of the applicants. No doubt, in his cross-examination,
PW36 deposed that the said writings were not written in his presence,
but this itself is not sufficient to discard the deposition of PW36. From
the deposition of PW36, it becomes clear that it was Anil Dhawan who
made the said writings in the passport delivery register at the time of
taking delivery of additional passport booklets. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (vii) No doubt, in his examination-in-chief, PW36 also
identified Q51, Q52, Q63, Q64 and Q99 as the signatures of accused
Anil Dhawan. Perusal of the documents reveals that said signatures
are appearing on the request letters. Q50 is the body portion of the
request letter whereas Q51 and Q52 are the signatures of the
applicant H. Lal. Similarly, Q62 is the body portion of the request letter
and Q63 and Q64 are the signatures of applicant i.e. H. Lal. Q98 is
the body portion of the request letter whereas Q99 is the signature of
applicant Darsrath Suri. Indisputably, during his deposition, PW36
failed to identify the signatures of applicant on the Passport
Application Registration Form and Application Form of Misc. Services
on Indian Passport. No specific reason has been deposed by PW36
on what basis, he had identified the signature of applicants on the said
three request letters. There is a possibility that the witness might have
identified the same after seeing the body portion of the request letters.
In these circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that the
testimony of PW36 to the extent wherein he identified the signatures
mark Q51, Q52, Q63, Q64 and Q99 on the request letters is not
sufficient to prove that the same were signed by accused Anil
Dhawan. This proposition gets strength from the deposition of PW36
when he deposed that he is not sure whether the signature mark
Q100 is in the handwriting of accused Anil Dhawan. It is pertinent to
state that Q99 and Q100 are the signatures of applicant on the same
request letter despite that PW36 deposed that he is not sure whether
Q100 is in the handwriting of accused Anil Dhawan or not. 24. From the deposition of PW36, it also becomes crystal
clear that he also identified certain writings as the writings of A4 from CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 32 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the Day Book. The said writings are marked A1 to A17 and collectively
exhibited as PW36/F. Besides that PW36 also identified the certain
writings mark A18 to A21 on the passport registration form of Kanu
Priya and Mark A22 & A23 on the Immigration Application Form of
Padmini Malpani, which are Ex. PW36/G and PW36/H respectively as
the writings of A4. (i) No doubt CBI claimed the above said writings as the
admitted writings of A4. In this regard, the testimony of PW46 is
relevant. In his cross-examination, PW46 deposed that admitted
writings means the writings of a person who writes in ordinary course
of his official duties and such writings are considered admitted writings
even if the same are not admitted by its author. He further deposed
that if the employer or a colleague of such person identified such
writings, he would consider such writings as admitted writings of that
official. Indisputably, the explanation furnished by PW46 is not
convincing because admitted writings is a writing which is admitted by
the author of the writing. Mere fact that certain writings is identified by
the employer or a colleague of a person does not mean that it
becomes the admitted writing. The testimony of such person may be
relevant under Section 47 of the Indian Evidence Act as in the instant
case, testimony of PW36 is relevant. (ii) During investigation CBI had also taken the specimen
writings of A4 which are marked as S-1 to S53 (Ex. PW7/1)
collectively. The said specimen writings were taken in the presence of
independent witness named PW7 Sunil Kumar. In his deposition, he
categorically deposed that the said specimen writings were taken by CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 33 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the investigating officer in his presence and the same was given by
accused Anil Dhawan voluntarily. Though the witness was cross-
examined at length, yet nothing could be extracted, which may cast
any doubt over his deposition. Thus, it is established that S1 to S53
are specimen writings of A4. 25. Now coming to the Handwriting Expert Report. (i) The report of GEQD is Ex. PW40/C whereas the
reasons in respect of the report are separately exhibited as Ex.
PW40/D. (ii) As per the report Ex. PW40/C Q1 to Q25, Q28 to Q55,
Q57 to Q84, Q89, Q92, S1 to S53 and A1 to A23 were written by one
and the same person. As already discussed that S1 to S53 is the
specimen writings and signatures of accused Anil Dhawan and it has
also been established that A1 to A23 are also the writings of A4. This
proves that accused Anil Dhawan is the author of above questioned
writings. (iii) As already discussed that the above said questioned
writings are on the Passport Application Registration Forms and
Application Forms for Miscellaneous Services on Indian Passport in all
six files of additional passport booklets, thus in other words
prosecution has succeeded to establish that accused Anil Dhawan is
the person who had filled up the said forms requesting the RPO to
issue the additional passport booklets in the name of applicants as
mentioned in the said applications from time to time. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iv) Q7, Q9, Q10, Q13, Q15 to Q22 ( in Passport file Ex.
PW3/F); Q23, Q24, Q25, Q28, Q30 to Q36 ( in Passport file Ex.
PW3/Q); Q37, Q39, Q40, Q43, Q45 to Q49, Q51 and Q52 (in
Passport file Ex. PW3/N) and Q53, Q55, Q59, Q61 to Q63 and Q65 to
Q68 (in Passport file Ex. PW3/L) are the signatures of the applicants.
It is pertinent to state that in all the above said four files, the additional
passport booklets were applied in the name of Harbans Lal Suri and at
the above points, the purported applicants had signed in the name of
applicants i.e. Harbans Lal Suri. (v) Q69, Q71, Q72, Q76, Q78 to Q84 (in file Ex. PW7/J)
are the signature of the applicant. In the said file, the additional
passport booklet was applied in the name of Ms. Neha Suri and it was
alleged that she had signed at the above said points. (vi) As per the GEQD report Ex. PW40/C, the said
signatures of the alleged applicants were signed by accused Anil
Dhawan. This establishes that accused Anil Dhawan had not only
filled up the forms in the name of Harbans Lal Suri and Neha Suri at
the time of seeking the additional passport booklets from time to time
but he also signed in the name of applicants i.e. Harbans Lal Suri and
Neha Suri on the said forms and annexure thereto. (vii) As per Ex. PW40/C, in the file Ex. PW3/G, Q89 and
Q92 are in the handwritings of accused Anil Dhawan. Perusal of the
said points reveals that only a portion of Application Form for
Miscellaneous Services on Indian Passport was in the handwriting of
accused Anil Dhawan whereas the major portion of the form is not in CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 35 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. his handwriting. The GEQD report qua other points in the said form is
silent. However, from the deposition of PW36, it is established that the
said form was also filled up by accused Anil Dhawan. 26. It is pertinent to state that in all the said forms though
the personal particulars of applicants namely Harbans Lal Suri, Neha
Suri and Dashrath Suri are mentioned but the photo of the applicants
is of different persons. It proves that accused Anil Dhawan had not
only filled up the said forms in the name of above said applicants in
favour of different persons, but he also signed in the name of two
applicants namely Harbans Lal Suri and Neha Suri in favour of
different persons. Passport Delivery Register:- 27. As per prosecution version, A4 had also taken the
delivery of additional passport booklets and at the time of taking
delivery of the said additional passport booklets, A4 had made an
entry in the passport delivery register in his own handwritings which
are Mark as Q1 to Q6. The relevant pages of additional passport
delivery register are Ex. PW36/A to PW36/D, PW34/E and
Ex.PW36/E. The said entries are comprising in three columns. In first
column, the name of applicant is mentioned, in second column
additional passport booklet number is mentioned whereas last column
bears the signature of applicants. As per GEQD report Ex. PW40/C,
A4 is also the author of Q1 to Q6. Besides that PW36 also testified in
his deposition that Q1 to Q6 are in the handwriting of A4. Thus, from
the GEQD report Ex. PW40/C and deposition of PW36, it is proved CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 36 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. beyond doubt that A4 is the person who had collected the additional
passport booklets from RPO, New Delhi by making the entries marked
Q1 to Q6 in passport delivery register and signing in the name of
applicants. 28. Now coming to testimony of PW40. PW40 is an
independent witness and at the relevant time was working as Dy.
Government Examiner of Questioned Documents, CFSL Shimla. He is
not only an independent witness but also a well experienced person
as he deposed that he had more than 38 years experience in the field
of documents examination and he had examined thousands of
documents independently and deposed before various courts
throughout the country. He further deposed that the said questioned
documents were also examined independently by Mr. N.C.Sood, Dy.
Government Examiner of Questions Documents. Thus, it becomes
clear that the questioned writings were not only examined by an
independent and experienced examiner i.e. PW40, but simultaneously
same were also examined by another equivalent competent examiner.
PW40 had recorded his reasons in detail in Ex.PW40/D to arrive at the
conclusion as mentioned in Ex. PW40/C. Thus, it can safely be culled
out that the conclusions arrived at by PW40 are based on detail
reasons as mentioned in Ex.PW40/D. (i) Though PW40 was cross-examined at length by A4 but
nothing has been come out in his cross-examination, which may cast
any dent either in his deposition or in his report. (ii) No doubt, during cross-examination an attempt was CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 37 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. made to cause a dent in the report of PW40 by putting a question that
handwriting science is not a perfect science. But this suggestion was
denied by PW40 by deposing that like any other progressive science,
handwriting identification is a perfect science and a definite opinion
can be given provided suitable and sufficient data are available.
Indisputably, in the instant case not only sufficient number of specimen
writings were sent to the GEQD but even numerous questioned
writings were also sent. Thus, it can safely be culled out that sufficient
and suitable data were provided to the GEQD. Moreover, PW40 in his
deposition, nowhere deposed that the provided data were not suitable
and sufficient to give any definite opinion. (iii) Another futile attempt was made to create a doubt
over his report by stating that CBI has failed to produce Mr. N.C. Sood
in the witness box despite the fact that he is still alive. No doubt,
PW40 in his cross-examination admitted that Mr. N.C. Sood is still
alive and he had retired from GEQD, Shimla. But to my mind
prosecution is not required to bring him in the witness box when PW40
has already proved the report and defence failed to bring anything on
record, which may cast any doubt over his report. Moreover, it is
settled law that Court has to see the quality and not quantity of
evidence. Thus, mere fact that Mr. N.C. Sood was not examined by
prosecution is not sufficient to discard the testimony of PW40, which is
otherwise trustworthy and admissible. Moreover, if accused thinks that
the deposition of Mr. N.C. Sood would help him to prove his
innocence, he could have easily called him as a defence witness, but
he also failed to examine him. Thus, to my mind, non-examination of
Mr. N.C. Sood is not fatal to the prosecution in any manner. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 29. Learned counsel vigorously argued that no reliance
can be placed on the report of PW40 as investigating officer (PW46)
had not obtained the permission of the Court before taking the
specimen handwritings of accused Anil Dhawan (A4) and in support of
his contention, he strongly relied upon Sapan Haldar & another v/s.
State (supra). 30. Perusal of the judgment Sapan Haldar & another
v/s. State (supra) makes it clear that the fact in issue before the
Hon'ble Court was Section 4 & 5 of Identification of Prisoners Act,
1920 and Section 311A Code of Criminal Procedure. After considering
the relevant case law, Hon`ble Court arrived at following conclusion:- samples of his handwriting and or signatures for
 purposes of comparison. (emphasis supplied) 31. However in the instant case, neither the Section 2 (a) , 4 & 5 of identification of Prisoners Act nor Section 311A Cr.P.C are fact
in issue before this Court. Indisputably, in the instant case,
investigating officer had not taken the specimen handwritings of the
accused after obtaining permission either from the Court concerned or
from the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate. Rather, specimen
handwritings were taken during the investigation. It is pertinent to state
that in the judgment Sapan Haldar & another v/s. State (supra),
there is nothing which may suggest that investigating officer has no
right or jurisdiction to take specimen handwritings of the suspect
during investigation for the purpose of finding truth, which is an
ultimate object of any investigation. (i) Though learned counsel appearing for A8 also placed
reliance on certain other judgements including Fakhruddin v/s. State
of M.P (supra); Ram Chandra v/s. State of UP (supra); Ishwari Pal
Mista v/s. Mohd. Isa (supra); Shashi Kumar Banerjee v/s. Subhodh Kumar Banerjee (supra), yet I do not deem it appropriate
to discuss all the judgements separately because all the said
judgements have been considered by the Apex Court in Murari Lal
v/s. State of MP, AIR 1980 SC 531. In the said judgment Apex Court
had discussed the entire case law relating to Handwriting Expert
Evidence, thus relevant portions of the judgment are reproduced as
under:- He submitted that the evidence of P. W. 8 who
 claimed to be familiar with the handwriting of the
 appellant was wholly unacceptable, that it was
 not permissible in law to act upon the
 uncorroborated opinion-evidence of the expert
 P. W. 15 and that the High Court fell into a
 serious error in attempting to compare the
 writing in Ex. P-9 with the admitted writing of the
 appellant. 4. We will first consider the argument, a Stale
 argument often heard, particularly in criminal
 courts, that the opinion-evidence of a
 handwriting expert should not be acted upon
 without substantial corroboration. We shall
 presently point out how the argument cannot be
 justified on principle or precedent. We begin
 with the observation that the expert is no
 accomplice. There is no justification for CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 41 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. condemning his opinion evidence to the same
 class of evidence as that of an accomplice and
 insist upon corroboration. True, it has
 occasionally been said on very high authority
 that it would be hazardous to base a conviction
 solely on the opinion of a handwriting expert.
 But, the hazard in accepting the opinion of any
 expert, handwriting expert or any other kind of
 expert, is not because experts, in general, are
 unreliable witnesses - the equality of credibility
 or incredibility being one which an expert shares
 with all other witness -, but because all human
 judgment is fallible and an expert may go wrong
 because of some defect of observation, some
 error of premises or honest mistake of
 conclusion. The more developed and the more
 perfect a science, the less the chance of an
 incorrect opinion and the converse if the science
 is less developed and imperfect. The science of
 identification of finger-prints has attained near
 perfection and the risk of an incorrect opinion is
 practically non-existent. On the other hand, the
 science of identification of handwriting is not
 nearly so perfect and the risk is, therefore,
 higher. But that is a far cry from doubting the
 opinion of a handwriting expert as an invariable
 rule and insisting upon substantial corroboration
 in every case, howsoever the opinion may be
 backed by the soundest of reasons. It is hardly
 fair to an expert to view his opinion with an initial
 suspicion and to treat him as an inferior sort of
 witness. His opinion has to be tested by the
 acceptability of the reasons given by him. An
 expert deposes and not decides. His duty 'is to
 furnish the judge with the necessary scientific
 criteria for testing the accuracy of his
 conclusion, so as to enable the judge to form his
 own independent judgment by the application of
 these criteria to the facts proved in evidence'.
 (Vide Lord President Cooper in Decie v. Edinburgh Magistrate, 1953 SC 34 quoted by
 Professor Cross in his Evidence). 5. From the earliest times, courts have
 received the opinion of experts. As long ago as
 1553 it was said in Buckley v. Rice Thomas, CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 42 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (1554) 1 Plowden 118: 6.Expert testimony is made relevant by S. 45 of
 the Evidence Act and where the Court has to
 form an opinion upon a point as to identity of
 handwriting, the opinion of a person 'specially
 skilled' 'in questions as to identity of handwriting'
 is expressly made a relevant fact. There is
 nothing in the Evidence Act , as for example like
 Illustration (b) to Section 114 which entitles the
 Court to presume that an accomplice is
 unworthy of credit, unless he is corroborated in
 material particulars, which justifies the court in
 assuming that a handwriting expert's opinion is
 unworthy of credit unless corroborated. The
 Evidence Act itself ( S. 3 ) tells us that 'a fact is
 said to be proved when, after considering the
 matters before it, the Court either believes it to
 exist or considers its existence so probable that
 a prudent man ought, under the circumstances
 of the particular case, to act upon the
 supposition that it exists'. It is necessary to
 occasionally remind ourselves of this
 interpretation clause in the Evidence Act lest we
 act on artificial standard of proof not warranted
 by the provisions of the Act. Further, under S.
 114 of the Evidence Act, the Court may
 presume the existence of any fact which it
 thinks likely to have happened, regard being
 had to the common course of natural events,
 human conduct, and public and private
 business, in their relation to facts of the
 particular case. It is also to be noticed that S. 46 of the Evidence Act makes facts, not otherwise
 relevant, relevant if they support or are
 inconsistent with the opinion of experts, when CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 43 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. such opinions are relevant. So, corroboration
 may not invariably be insisted upon before
 acting on the opinion of a handwriting expert
 and there need to no initial suspicion. But, on
 the facts of a particular case, a court may
 require corroboration of a varying degree. There
 can be no hard and fast rule, but nothing will
 justify the rejection of the opinion of an expert
 supported by unchallenged reasons on the sole
 ground that it is not corroborated. The approach
 of a court while dealing with the opinion of a
 handwriting expert should be to proceed
 cautiously, probe the reasons for the opinion,
 consider all other relevant evidence and decide
 finally to accept or reject it. 7. Apart from principle, let us examine if
 precedents justify invariable insistence on
 corroboration. We have referred to Phipson on
 Evidence, Cross on Evidence, Roscoe on
 Criminal Evidence, Archibald on Criminal
 Pleadings, Evidence and Practice and
 Halsbury's Laws, England but we were unable
 to find a single sentence hinting at such a rule.
 We may now refer to some of the decisions of
 this Court. In Ram Chandra v. U. P. State , AIR
 1957 SC 381, Jagannadha Das, J. observed; "It
 may be that normally it is not safe to treat expert
 evidence as to handwriting as sufficient basis
 for conviction" (emphasis ours). 'May' and
 'normally' make our point about the absence of
 an inflexible rule. In Ishwari Prasad Misra v.
 Mohammad Isa , (1963) 3 SCR 722,
 Gajendragadkar, J. observed; "Evidence given
 by expert can never be conclusive, because
 after all it is opinion evidence", a statement
 which carries us nowhere on the question now
 under consideration. Nor, can the statement be
 disputed because it is not so provided by the Evidence Act and, on the contrary, S. 46 expressly makes opinion evidence challenge-
 able by facts, otherwise irrelevant. And as Lord
 President Cooper observed in Davis v. Edinburgh Magistrate : "The parties have
 invoked the decision of a judicial tribunal and CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 44 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. not an oracular pronouncement by an expert". 8. In Shashi Kumar v. Subodh Kumar , AIR
 1964 SC 529, Wanchoo, J., after noticing
 various features of the opinion of the expert
 said: So, there was acceptable direct testimony which
 was destructive of the expert's opinion; there
 were other features also which made the
 expert's opinion unreliable. The observations
 regarding corroboration must be read in that
 context and it is worthy of note that even so the
 expression used was 'it is usual' and not 'it is
 necessary'. 9. In Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya
 Pradesh, AIR 1967 SC 1326 : 1967 Cri LJ 1197,
 Hidayatullah, J. said: These observations lend no support to any
 requirement as to corroboration of expert
 testimony. On the other hand, the facts show
 that the Court ultimately did act upon the
 uncorroborated testimony of the expert though
 the judges took the precaution of comparing the
 writing themselves. 10. Finally, we come to Magan Bihari Lal v. State of Punjab, AIR 1977 SC 1091 upon which
 Sri R. C. Kohli, learned counsel, placed great
 reliance. It was said by this Court: The above extracted passage, undoubtedly,
 contains some sweeping general observations.
 But we do not think that the observations were
 meant to be observations of general application
 or as laying down any legal principle. It was
 plainly intended to be a rule of caution and not a
 rule of law as is clear from the statement 'it has
 almost become as rule of law'. 'Almost', we
 presume, means 'not quite'. It was said by the
 Court there was a 'profusion of precedential
 authority' which insisted upon corroboration and
 reference was made to Ram Chandra v. State of
 U. P., Ishwari Prasad v. Mohammed Isa, Shashi
 Kumar v. Subodh Kumar and Fakhruddin v. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. State of M. P. We have already discussed these
 cases and observed that none of them supports
 the proposition that corroboration must
 invariably be sought before opinion evidence
 can be accepted. There appears to be some
 mistake in the last sentence of the above
 extracted passage because we are unable to
 find in Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya Pradesh any statement such as the one attributed. In
 fact , in that case , the learned Judges acted
 upon the sole testimony of the expert after
 satisfying themselves about the correctness of
 the opinion by comparing the writings
 themselves. We do think that the observations
 in Magan Bihari Lal v. State of Punjab must be
 understood as referring to the facts of the
 particular case. 11. We are firmly of the opinion that there is
 no rule of law, nor any rule of prudence which
 has crystallised into a rule of law, that opinion
 evidence of a handwriting expert must never be
 acted upon, unless substantially corroborated.
 But, having due regard to the imperfect nature
 of the science of identification of handwriting,
 the approach, as we indicated earlier, should be
 one of caution. Reasons for the opinion must be
 carefully probed and examined. All other
 relevant evidence must be considered. In
 appropriate cases, corroboration may be
 sought. In cases where the reasons for the
 opinion are convincing and there is no reliable
 evidence throwing a doubt. the uncorroborated
 testimony of a handwriting expert may be
 accepted. There cannot be any inflexible rule on
 a matter which, in the ultimate analysis, is no
 more than a question of testimonial weight. We
 have said so much because this is an argument
 frequently met with in subordinate courts and
 sentences torn out of context from the
 judgments of this Court are often flaunted. 12. The argument that the Court should not
 venture to compare writings itself, as it would CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 48 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. thereby assume to itself the role of an expert is
 entirely without force. Section 73 of the
 Evidence Act expressly enables the Court to
 compare disputed writings with admitted or
 proved writings to ascertain whether a writing is
 that of the person by whom it purports to have
 been written. If it is hazardous to do so, as
 sometimes said, we are afraid it is one of the
 hazards to which judge and litigant must expose
 themselves whenever it becomes necessary. There may be cases where both sides call
 experts and the voices of science are heard. There may be cases where neither side calls an
 expert, being ill able to afford him. In all such
 cases, it becomes the plain duty of the Court to
 compare the writings and come to its own
 conclusion. The duty cannot be avoided by
 recourse to the statement that the court is no
 expert. Where there are expert opinions, they
 will aid the Court. Where there is none, the
 Court will have to seek guidance from some
 authoritative textbook and the Court's own
 experience and knowledge. But discharge it
 must, its plain duty, with or without expert, with
 or without other evidence. We may mention that Shashi Kumar v. Subodh Kumar and Fakhruddin v. State of Madhya Pradesh were
 cases where the Court itself compared the
 writings. 13. Reverting to the facts of the case before
 us, Sri Kohli had not a word of criticism to offer
 against the reasons given by the expert P. W.
 15, for his opinion. We have perused the
 reasons given by the expert as well as his
 cross-examination. Nothing has been elicited to
 throw the least doubt on the correctness of the
 opinion. Both the Sessions Court and the High
 Court compared the disputed writing at page 6
 in Ex. P-9 with the admitted writings and found,
 in conjunction with the opinion of the expert, that
 the author was the same person. We are unable
 to find any ground for disagreeing with the
 findings. (emphasis supplied) CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 49 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ii) The above view was approved by the Apex Court in
Alamgir v/s. State (NCT) Delhi in Criminal Appeal No. 202 of 2001
decided on 12.11.2002. (iii) Though counsel appearing for Anil Dhawan also cited
certain other judgements relating to handwritings but in view of the law
laid down in Murari Lal v/s. State of MP (supra), I am of the view that
no fruitful purpose would be achieved to discuss the said judgements. (iv) From the evidence adduced by prosecution, it can
safely be culled out that prosecution has succeeded to prove the
following facts:- PW36 for almost eight years and his duties were to deliver
 tickets to clients; to collect payment; to help clients in
 getting passports and visa; to make entries in the Day
 book. (c) That PW36 had identified certain writings i.e. Q8,
 Q9, Q11 and Q12 (in the additional passport booklet file
 Ex. PW3/F); Q23A, Q24, Q26, Q27 and Q29 (in the
 additional passport booklet file Ex. PW3/Q); Q38, Q39, CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 50 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Q41, Q42, Q44 and Q50 to Q52 (in the additional
 passport booklet file Ex. PW3/N); Q54, Q57, Q58, Q60,
 Q63 and Q64 (in the additional passport booklet file Ex.
 PW3/L); Q70, Q73, Q74, Q74 and Q77 (in the additional
 passport booklet file Ex.PW7/J); Q86, Q89, Q89/1, Q90,
 Q92, Q98 and Q99 (in the additional passport booklet file
 Ex.PW3/G); Q1 to Q4 (Ex.PW36 to PW36/D respectively)
 and Q5 and Q6 (Ex.PW34/E and Ex.PW36/E
 respectively). (i) From the deposition of PW36, it is established
 beyond doubt A4 had filled up the forms in the name of
 applicants at the time of obtaining additional passport
 booklets from time to time. From his deposition it is also
 established that A4 had also taken the delivery of said
 passports by making entries marked Q1 to Q6 in the
 passport delivery register. (d) That handwriting expert report Ex.PW40/C
 proves that A4 is the author of Q1 to Q25, Q28 to Q55,
 Q57 to Q84, Q89 and Q92. In other words handwriting
 expert report establishes that A4 had not only filled up the
 forms in name of applicants but he also signed in the
 name of applicants not only on the forms but also on the
 supporting documents and he had also taken the delivery
 of said passports by making entries marked Q1 to Q6 in
 passport delivery register. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (e) That during investigation, investigating officer had
 taken the specimen writing/signatures of accused Anil
 Dhawan (A4) S1 to S53 and the same has also been
 proved by PW7. (f) That from the testimony of PW36 it is also
 established that A4 is also the author of A1 to A23. (g) That from the GEQD report Ex.PW40/C, it has
 been established that the author of S1 to S53, A1 to A23
 and the above said questioned writings are one and same
 person. 32. Thus from the above, it becomes crystal clear that PW36
not only proved the fact that accused Anil Dhawan (A4) had filled up
the passport application registration forms as well as application forms
for miscellaneous services on Indian Passport in all six passport files,
which were submitted to the office of RPO for obtaining additional
passport booklets in the name of Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri
and Mr. Dashrath Suri from time to time with photograph of different
persons, but PW40 B.A.Vaid also corroborated the testimony of PW36
and also proves that A4 had signed in the files (except the file of
Dashrath Suri) in the name of applicants. Further, during trial no
reliable evidence, which may throw any doubt over the conclusion
arrived at by PW40, has been produced by the accused. Thus, in the
absence of any contrary evidence on record, this Court has no reason
to disbelieve the report of PW40 which is not only corroborated by
PW36 but also supported by another independent Handwriting Expert CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 52 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. i.e. Mr. N.C. Sood. 33. Since, it has been established that the passport
application registration forms and applications for miscellaneous
services on Indian Passport in all additional passport booklet files,
which were submitted before the RPO for obtaining additional
passport booklets from time to time, were not only filled up by the
accused Anil Dhawan (A4) but he also signed the same in the name of
two applicants i.e. Harbans Lal Suri and Neha Suri, thus in terms of Section 106 of Indian Evidence Act, burden is shifted upon A4 to
explain under which circumstances he had filled up the said
forms/applications and signed in the name of applicants. But during
trial, A4 failed to discharge the said burden. In the absence of any
contrary evidence on record, this Court has no hesitation to draw a
conclusion that A4 had not only filled up the said forms/applications
knowingly well that the persons whose photographs are affixed on the
said forms/applications were not Mr. Harbans LaL Suri, Ms. Neha Suri
and Mr. Dashrath Suri in whose name the said forms/applications had
been filled up, but he also signed in the name of first two applicants in
the above said files, thus accused Anil Dhawan (A4) is liable for the
offence punishable under Section 420 IPC as he dishonestly induced
the office of RPO to believe that the persons whose photographs are
affixed on the said forms/applications were Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms.
Neha Suri and Mr. Dashrath Suri, thus induced RPO to issue
additional passport booklets as prayed in said forms/applications. 34. As already discussed that accused Anil Dhawan (A4)
had signed in the name of applicants namely Mr. Harbans Lal Suri and CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 53 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Ms. Neha Suri at the time of applying for additional passport booklets
in all the files and he also signed in the name of all applicants at the
time of taking delivery of two additional passport booklets, thus he had
committed forgery as defined under Section 463 IPC. As he did so
with an intention to support his claim that the said forms were signed
by the applicants Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri and Mr.
Dashrath Suri and the delivery of two additional passports were taken
by the applicants themselves with an intention to commit fraud upon
RPO, New Delhi by signing in the name of above said applicants,
accused Anil Dhawan is also liable for the offence punishable under Section 468 IPC. 35. Since, A4 had also used the said forms in order to obtain
additional passport booklets in the name of applicants namely Mr.
Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri and Mr. Dashrath Suri knowingly well
that the above persons whose photographs were affixed on the said
forms were not Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri and Mr. Dashrath
Suri, he is also liable for the offence punishable under Section 471 IPC. 36. Since, it has been established that accused Anil Dhawan
(A4) had collected six additional passport booklets by signing in the
name of above applicants in the passport delivery register, it proves
that he represented himself as applicants at the time of taking the
delivery of the additional passport booklets, thus he is also liable for
the offence punishable under Section 419 IPC. 37. Since, accused Anil Dhawan (A4) had filled up the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 54 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. passport application registration forms and forms for miscellaneous
services in the name of Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri and Mr.
Dashrath Suri with the photographs of different persons and he also
signed on the said forms and the fact that he failed to furnish any
reasonable explanation under which circumstances he had filled up
the said forms/applications in the name of same person with different
photographs and signed the said forms in the name of applicants, his
above acts are sufficient to draw a conclusion that he had furnished
false information qua applicants knowingly or having reasons to
believe that the persons whose photographs are affixed on the said
forms/applications were not Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Ms. Neha Suri and
Mr. Dashrath Suri. Thus, he facilitated the said persons in obtaining
the passport in the form of additional passport booklets in the
assumed name of applicants from RPO by furnishing false
information, accused Anil Dhawan (A4) is also liable for the offence
punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act. Common Contentions on behalf of A1 to A3:- 38. Learned counsel appearing for the accused persons
who were working in RPO, New Delhi at the time of commission of
alleged offence vigorously contended that since the passport is not a
valuable thing, accused persons cannot be held guilty for the offence
punishable under Section 13 (2) of PC Act. (i) Per contra, learned Sr. Public Prosecutor appearing for
CBI refuted the said contention by sagaciously arguing that since
passport confers a valuable right over a person, passport is a valuable CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 55 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. thing. 39. To deal with the said contention, I deem it appropriate to
refer to some of the provisions of Passport Act to ascertain the
importance of passport. 'Passport' is defined in Section 2 (b) and
'travel document' is defined under Section 2 (e) of Passport Act and
same are read as under:- satisfies the conditions prescribed. (emphasis supplied) (ii) From the combined reading of Section 2(b) , 2(e) and 3 of the Passport Act, it becomes crystal clear that no person can depart
from the territory of India unless he holds a valid passport or travel
document issued by the Passport Authority. In other words, passport
creates a legal right in favour of a person to depart from the territory of
India. Besides that, passport is also a valid document to prove the
nationality of a person. It is also a valid document for the identity of a
person. 40. Though there is a reference of "valuable thing" in Section 13 (1) (d) , yet "valuable thing" is not defined in PC Act . (i) Question arises whether passport can be considered as
"valuable thing" or not? (ii) Though "valuable security" is defined under Section 30 of IPC, but Penal Code is also silent qua "valuable thing". Section 30 reads as under:- 41. Next contention raised by learned counsel appearing for
A1 to A3 is that since accused persons had acted in good faith while
discharging their duties, if they had committed any mistake in
discharging their official duties, they cannot be held liable for the
penal offences. (i) Per contra, learned Sr. Public Prosecutor refuted the said CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 58 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. contention by arguing sagaciously that since accused persons had not
taken due care deliberately while performing their duties, the plea of
good faith is not available to them. 42. 'Good Faith' is defined under Section 52 of IPC, which
reads as under:- (i) Thus, before taking the plea of good faith, the person who
takes such plea has to show by producing relevant material/evidence
on record that he had taken due care and attention. The question
whether the above accused persons had taken any such care and
attention at the time of dealing with the files in question shall be
discussed while discussing their role. 43. Coming to the next contention wherein learned counsel
appearing for A1 to A3 vigorously argued that no reliance can be
placed on the certificate Ex.PW3/A as PW3 Ajai Gautam was not a
competent person to issue the said certificate. It was further argued
that the said certificate was not in accordance with law. (i) Per contra, learned Senior Public Prosecutor appearing
for CBI countered the said contention by sagaciously arguing that
PW3 was not only a competent person to issue the certificate but
certificate was issued in accordance with law, thus there is no reason
to disbelieve the deposition of PW3 when he deposed that data were CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 59 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. not tempered with. (ii) PW3 Sh. Ajai Gautam in his examination-in-chief deposed
that he was an officer of National Informative Centre (NIC) and he was
on deputation to RPO, New Delhi and deposed that his duty was to
install and configure the computer/server and provide operational
support to the passport office. He further deposed that the annexures
Ex.PW2/C to Ex.PW2/N (work done sheets/process sheets) to the
letter Ex.PW2/B were generated by him and the same bears his
signature. He further deposed that he had issued the certificate under Section 65 B of Indian Evidence Act (Ex.PW3/A) wherein he certified
that he had generated the said documents and said documents were
true and actual reproduction of the data maintained at Regional
Passport Office, New Delhi as electronic record in the ordinary course
of business and further testified that same was not tempered with. He
further testified that the computer from which the prints out were
taken, was properly working. He further testified that the
computers/terminals through which the concerned officials worked
during the relevant period, were also working properly. (iii) Since, PW3 Sh. Ajai Gautam was deputed at the office of
RPO from NIC and his duty was to look after the installation of
computers/servers and provide operational support to the staff of
RPO, New Delhi, it can safely be culled out that PW3 was a
competent person for the maintenance of computers/servers installed
in the office of RPO, New Delhi. It means that he was one of the
competent persons to certify that the data were actual reproduction of
the electronic record and same were not tempered with and the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 60 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. system from which the above data were fed and the documents
generated, were working properly. (iv) PW3 in his examination-in-chief deposed that about 100
dump terminals, 20-25 computers and 5 scanners were installed in the
office of RPO, New Delhi. Since 100 dump terminals were installed in
the office of RPO, New Delhi, it can safely be said that dump terminals
were provided to officials to feed data. It is pertinent to mention here
that in dump terminals, there is no hard disk and data fed through
dump terminals were directly saved/stored in the server, to which
dump terminals were connected. There is nothing on record which
may suggest that the dump terminals or the computers from which the
officials of RPO used to feed information as mentioned in the
aforesaid documents (Ex. PW2/C to PW2/N) were not working
properly or that server was not working properly at the relevant time. (v) In view of the above discussion, I do not find any reason
to disbelieve the deposition of PW3 Sh. Ajai Gautam, who is an
independent person. Thus, to my mind the above documents (Ex.
PW2/C to PW2/N) are admissible in evidence and I do not find any
infirmity or illegality in the certificate issued under Section 65 B of
Indian Evidence Act. 44. PW2 Inder Mohan, the then Superintendent in the office
of RPO, New Delhi corroborated the testimony of PW3. He also
identified his signature on the process/work done sheets Ex.PW2/C to
Ex.PW2/N and testified that the same were sent to the CBI vide his
letter Ex.PW2/B. CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 61 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 45. No doubt, PW2 also deposed that he had no knowledge
about the Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act and deposed that he
had never issued any such certificate. But his testimony is not helpful
to the accused persons in any manner because said certificate was
issued by PW3 and not by PW2. As already discussed PW3
categorically deposed that he had issued the said certificate, thus the
testimony of PW2 wherein he deposed that he had no knowledge
about the compliance of the Section 65B of Indian Evidence Act is not
fatal to the prosecution in any manner. 46. Learned counsel appearing for the above accused
persons assailed the prosecution case by vehemently arguing that
there is no evidence to prove the guilt of accused persons for the
offence punishable under Section 13 (2) r/w 13 (1)(d) of PC Act and
further sagaciously argued that to prove the charges under Section
13(1)(d) of PC Act, prosecution is duty bound to prove dishonest
intention, which is an essential ingredient of Section 13(1)(d) of P.C
Act. However, it was urged that during trial prosecution failed to
adduce any evidence to prove that accused persons had any
dishonest intent when they dealt with the files in question. (i) Per contra, learned Sr. Public Prosecutor appearing for
the CBI countered said contention by sagaciously arguing that though
dishonest intention is one of the essential ingredients to prove the guilt
of accused persons for the offences under Section 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii),
but dishonest intention is not required to prove the guilt of the accused
persons for the offence under Section 13(1)(d)(iii) of PC Act. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 47. From the submissions advanced by counsel for both
the parties, short but interesting question emerges whether 'criminal
intent' or 'dishonest intention' is pre-requisite ingredient for the offence
punishable under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) of PC Act
or not? (i) Section 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act is in
following three parts:- (i) by corrupt or illegal means,
 obtains for himself or for any other person any
 valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (ii) by abusing his position as a
 public servant, obtains for himself or for any
 other person any valuable thing or pecuniary
 advantage; or (iii) while holding office as a public
 servant, obtains for any person any valuable
 thing or pecuniary advantage without any public
 interest; (emphasis supplied) (ii) Bare perusal of clause (i) and (ii), makes it clear that
dishonest intention is an essential ingredient as held by the Apex
Court in C. K. Jaffer Sharief v/s. State, 2012 (11) SCALE 71 and S.
K. Kale v/s. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1977 SC 822. But there is
nothing in the said judgements, which may show that mens-rea is also
an essential ingredient for the offence under clause (iii) of Section 13
(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. This issue was raised
before the High Court of Delhi in Runu Ghosh v/s. CBI decided by CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 63 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the High Court of Delhi in Criminal Appeal No. 482 of 2002 on
December 21, 2011. The relevant portions of the judgement are
reproduced as under:- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. The ingredients which the prosecution has to
 prove in relation to this offence, (which is in pari
 materia with Section 5 (1) (e) of the 1947 Act,
 were spelt out in M. Krishna Reddy v State
 Deputy Superintendent of Police 1992 (4) SCC
 45 as follows: .............. .............. .............. 24.The distinction between a strict construction
 and a more free one has disappeared in modern
 times and now mostly the question is what is
 true construction of the statute? A passage in CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 66 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Craies on Statute Law, 7th Edn. reads to the
 following effect: typically these may relate to payment of royalty,
 grant of license or concessions, issuance of
 permits, authorizations, etc. Yet, such grants,
 concessions, or other forms of advantages to CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 67 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. third parties would not criminalize the public
 servants actions, so long as they have an
 element of public interest. They (acts of the
 public servant) are outlawed, and become
 punishable, if they are "without public interest". 74. Having now settled the true interpretation of
 whether the offence under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) requires proof of mens-rea, it would now be vital
 to settle what really the prosecution would have
 to establish to say that the public servants
 actions or decisions, which result in a third party
 obtaining a pecuniary advantage or valuable
 thing, without public interest. The expression
 "public interest" is known to law; at the same
 time its meaning is not rigid, and takes colour
 from the particular statute or policy (Ref. Srinivasa Co-operative House Building Society v
 Madam Gurumurthy Sastry 1994 (4) SCC 675). It might be useful to consider the following
 formulation of what is public interest, in relation
 to actions by public officials or agencies or
 instrumentalities of state, in every sphere of
 government functioning, given in Shrilekha
 Vidyarthi (Kumari) v. State of U.P. , (1991) 1 SCC
 212: The court held that: ............ ............ ............ ............. ............. ............. ............. ............. ............. 77. The court, as a consequence has to
 determine the objective criteria by which acts (of
 public servants) without public interest, are to be
 judged, if mens rea (to obtain pecuniary
 advantage or valuable thing to another) is not a
 necessary ingredient. This exercise is essential
 because in the absence of mens rea (which has
 been ruled out) the court has to say what "acts"
 resulting in someone obtaining pecuniary
 advantage or valuable thing are "without public
 interest". Obviously the mere fact that a third
 party obtains pecuniary advantage, or a valuable
 thing, is insufficient; a supplier of equipment to
 public servants or offices, a travel agent who
 makes bookings for a public agency, a CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 70 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. businessman or corporate group granted
 licenses or clearances, by departments or
 agencies of the Government, would all stand to
 benefit. Many of these decisions are in fact, and
 all are, expected to be in public interest. Therefore, the kind of behaviour which amounts
 to an "act" resulting in someone "obtaining
 pecuniary advantage" or "valuable thing" 78. In a previous part of this judgment, what
 constitutes "public interest" and the trust
 element, which informs every decision of a
 public servant or agency, was discussed and
 emphasized. The State in its myriad functions
 enters into contracts, of various kinds, involves
 itself in regulation, awards or grants largesse,
 and holds property. Each action of the State
 must further the social or economic goals sought
 to be achieved by the policy. Therefore, when a
 public servants decision exhibits complete and
 manifest disregard to public interest with the
 corresponding result of a third party obtaining
 pecuniary advantage or valuable thing, he is
 fastened with responsibility for "criminal
 misconduct" under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) . There
 is nothing reprehensible in this interpretation,
 because the "act" being "without public interest" 79. What then is the behaviour or act which
 attracts such opprobrium as to result in criminal
 responsibility? It is not every act which results in
 loss of public interest, or that is contrary to public
 interest, that is a prosecutable offence. There
 can be no doubt that all acts prejudicial to public
 interest, can be the subject matter of judicial
 review. In those cases, courts consider whether
 the decision maker transgressed the zone of
 reasonableness, or breached the law, in his
 action. However, it is only those acts done with
 complete and manifest disregard to the norms,
 and manifestly injurious to public interest, which
 were avoidable, but for the public servants
 overlooking or disregarding precautions and not
 heeding the safeguards he or she was expected
 to, and which result in pecuniary advantage to
 another that are prosecutable under Section
 13(1) (d) (iii) . In other words, if the public servant
 is able to show that he followed all the
 safeguards, and exercised all reasonable
 precautions having regard to the circumstances,
 despite which there was loss of public interest,
 he would not be guilty of the offence. The
 provision aims at ensuring efficiency, and
 responsible behaviour, as much as it seeks to
 outlaw irresponsibility in public servants
 functioning which would otherwise go
 unpunished. The blameworthiness for a
 completely indefensible act of a public servant, is
 to be of such degree that it is something that no
 reasonable man would have done, if he were
 placed in that position, having regard to all the
 circumstances. It is not merely a case of making
 a wrong choice; the decision should be one such
 as no one would have taken. (emphasis supplied) (iii) From the above judgement, it becomes crystal clear CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 72 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. that mens-rea is not required for the offence under Section 13(1) (d) (iii) of the Prevention of Corruption Act . Prosecution is required only to
prove that public servant while holding the office obtains for any
person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public
interest. Circulars issued from time to time:- that while issuing additional booklet the practice
 of attaching and sealing the same with the old
 passport should be discontinued with immediate
 effect. The old passport should be cancelled and
 returned to the holder and suitable endorsement
 regarding old passport made in the new
 additional booklet. The validity of the additional
 booklet should be in continuation to the old
 passport of the holder. 3. In case second additional booklet is issued
 to the holder, the endorsement in the second
 additional booklet should carry the details of
 original passport and first additional booklet so
 that when asked by the appropriate authority, the
 holder should produce the same. (Riva G. Das)
 Deputy Secretary (PV-I)

 All PIAs in India & Abroad (i) The said circular was modified by issuing another circular
dated November 25, 1997 (Ex. PW2/DG) wherein it was directed that
instead of cancelling the original passport having valid visa, to put a
stamp across the first three pages of the used booklet. The relevant
portion of said circular reads as under:- 4. This will be implemented with effect from
 December 15, 1997, in Missions abroad and with
 effect from December 1, 1997, in Passport
 Offices. In case of a subsequent passport
 booklet, details of the original passport as well as
 the previous additional booklet may be given. 6. Kindly confirm receipt. (ii) Vide circular dated March 6, 2002 (Ex. PW2/DF) the
condition of fresh police verification qua additional passport booklet
and miscellaneous services was dispensed with. The relevant para
are para 3 and 4, which read as under:- and staff and send your report as to what steps
 have you taken to ensure that the fruits of the
 reforms reach the general public. I expect your
 reply by March 15, 2002. (iii) Vide circular dated May 26, 2003 (Ex. PW2/DE), charges
for Tatkal services was dispensed with and it was directed to provide
miscellaneous services within maximum 3-5 days without charging
any additional fee. The relevant portion of the circular reads as under:- (iv) Vide circular dated April 29, 2004 (Ex. PW2/DD) all PIAs
were authorised to issue additional passport booklets irrespective of
the fact whether they had issued original passport or not subject to the
clearance of Index/PAC/ check within 3-5 days preferably on same CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 76 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. day without charging additional fee. The relevant portion is reproduced
as under:- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (vi) From the combined reading of all the circulars, it
becomes abundantly clear that the procedure for issuance of
additional passport booklet was liberalised from 1997 to 2004. The
stress of Ministry of External Affairs was to minimize the hardship of
public at the time of getting additional passport booklet and
miscellaneous services. However, simultaneously ample precaution
was also taken to ensure that the said procedure be not misused by
any unscrupulous person by directing that the additional passport
booklets shall be issued subject to clearance of Index/PAC/HIT and in
case of any doubt, officials of Passport office shall take the help of
PISON to ascertain the details of original passport issued by other
PIA. Simultaneously at the time of dealing with the request for
additional passport booklet, officials were also required to take the
photocopy of previous passport also. (vii) Further, from the circulars dated June 24, 1997
(Ex.PW2/DH) and November 25, 1997 (Ex.PW2/DG), it also becomes
crystal clear that at the time of obtaining the additional passport
booklet, officials of RPO are also required to affix a stamp of
'cancellation and returned' on the original/previous additional passport
booklet, if any. Simultaneously, they are also required to affix a stamp
on the new additional passport booklet as described in circular dated
November 25, 1997 (Ex.PW2/DG). 49. Now coming to Rule 2 (iii) of the Passports Rules, 1980
wherein the circumstances under which additional passport can be
issued is described. Rule reads as under:- Contentions relating to conspiracy:- 50. Learned counsel appearing for A1 to A3 vehemently
contended that there is no iota of admissible evidence on record to
prove that the above said accused persons had acted in furtherance
of any criminal conspiracy. It was argued that though prosecution has CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 80 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. examined as many as 46 witnesses, yet none of them had uttered
even a single word about the alleged conspiracy. It was further argued
that mere fact that the accused persons had dealt with the files in
question while discharging their official duties is not sufficient to prove
that they were members of any conspiracy. It was further contended
that even no sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C had been obtained
qua penal offences, thus A1 to A3 being the public servants cannot be
convicted for penal offences with the aid of Section 120B IPC. (i) Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
contended that though there is no direct evidence on record to prove
the conspiracy among the accused persons, but the circumstances
establish that the above said accused persons were in conspiracy with
other accused persons and due to that reason they had not taken due
care and precaution while dealing with the files in question. It was
further contended that no separate sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C
is required to convict them under penal offences. (ii) In this regard paras no. 49 to 52 of State of Madhya
Pradesh v. Sheetla Sahai (2009) 8 SCC 617 are relevant,
accordingly same are reproduced as under:- conspiracy: Its ingredients are:- State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ii) an agreement must relate to doing or
 causing to be done either (a) an illegal act; (b) an act which is not illegal in itself but is done by
 illegal means: In Kehar Singh and Ors. v/s. State (Delhi
 Administration) MANU/SC/0241/1988; 1988 (3) SCC
 609 at 731. this Court has quoted the following
 passage from Russell on Crimes (12th Edn. Vol.1); The gist of the offence of conspiracy then
 lies, not in doing the act, or effecting the
 purpose for which the conspiracy is formed,
 nor in attempting to do them, nor in inciting
 others to do them, but in the forming of the
 scheme or agreement between the parties. Agreement is essential. Mere knowledge, or
 even discussion, of the plan is not, per se
 enough. In State (NCT) of Delhi vs. Navjot Sandhu @ Afsan
 Guru MANU/SC/0465/2005 ; (2005) 11 SCC 600, this
 Court stated the law, thus: course, each one of the circumstances
 should be proved beyond reasonable doubt. Lastly, in regard to the appreciation of
 evidence relating to the conspiracy, the
 Court must take care to see that the acts or
 conduct of the parties must be conscious
 and clear enough to infer their concurrence
 as to the common design and its execution. We may also notice that in Ram Narayan Popli vs.
 CBI MANU/SC/0017/2003 : (2003) 3 SCC 641, it was
 held:- Nevertheless, existence of the conspiracy
 and its objective can be inferred from the
 surrounding circumstances and the
 conduct of the accused. But the
 incriminating circumstances must form a
 chain of events from which a conclusion
 about the guilt of the accused could be
 drawn, It is well settled that an offence of
 conspiracy is a substantive offence and CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 84 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. renders the mere agreement to commit an
 offence punishable even if an offence does
 not take place pursuant to the illegal
 agreement. Ex. Facie, there is no material to show that a
 conspiracy had been hatched by the respondents." (emphasis supplied) (i) From the above, it becomes crystal clear that the
conspiracy can also be proved by the surrounding circumstances and
conduct of the accused persons but the incriminating circumstances
must form a chain of events from which conclusion about the guilt of
accused persons can be drawn. 51. Now coming to the facts of the case at hand. (i) Though in order to prove the guilt of accused persons,
prosecution has examined as many as 46 witnesses, yet none of them
has deposed even a single word about the alleged conspiracy among
A1 to A3 on the one hand and the other accused persons on the other
hand. No doubt, it is difficult to find out a direct evidence to prove the
conspiracy as generally conspiracy is hatched in secrecy and it is
settled law that conspiracy can also be proved by circumstantial
evidence. But the onus is upon the prosecution to prove such
circumstances in accordance with law. But in the instant case, CBI has
even failed to produce any such circumstantial evidence to prove that
there was any conspiracy between A1 to A3 on the one hand and
other accused persons on the other hand. Mere fact that A1 to A3
were working in the same office and they had dealt with the files in CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 85 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. question, in the absence of any other evidence, is not sufficient to
draw a conclusion that they had hatched any conspiracy either among
themselves or with the applicants or with the remaining accused
persons. Being the officials posted at RPO, they were otherwise duty
bound to deal with the files in question. Mere fact that there are some
lapses on their part while dealing with the files itself is not sufficient to
establish that they were in conspiracy either among themselves or
with the applicants or with the remaining accused persons. (ii) It is admitted case of CBI that first application was
moved for obtaining the additional passport booklet on February 04,
2004 whereas the last application was moved on June 09, 2004.
Thus, in order to prove conspiracy, CBI is duty bound to establish that
there was a meeting of mind among the accused persons prior to
February 04, 2004. But during trial, CBI failed to produce any such
evidence. Even there is nothing on record, which may show that the
RPO officials i.e. A1 to A3 used to meet with other accused persons or
they had any interaction or intimacy with them. 52. During the cross-examination of PW46 Mr. Somraj
Thakur, when a question was put to him whether he found any
evidence of conspiracy against the accused persons, he deposed that
he did not find any direct evidence of conspiracy and clarified that he
drew the inference of conspiracy on the basis of role played by the
accused persons particularly by A1 to A5. When a question was put to
him whether the public servant namely A1 to A3 had obtained any
pecuniary gain, he deposed that he did not find any such evidence.
When a question was put to him about the modus-operandi of CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 86 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. accused persons, he deposed that A4 used to produce the documents
before Harbhajan Yadav being the counter clerk, thereafter Harbhajan
Yadav used to place the documents before Bibianus Toppo (A1). He
further deposed that thereafter, file automatically used to go to Ram
Chander (A3) for HIT clearance and he used to give the HIT clearance
without checking the record. When a question was put to him whether
he found any evidence of any illegal gratification in the above said
modus-operandi, he deposed that he did not find any such evidence.
Similarly, when a question was put to him what was the modus-
operandi of A4 in getting clients who needed passport on the basis of
fake identity, he deposed that he could not ascertain the said modus-
operandi because the persons who availed the service of A4 could not
be traced out. When a question was put to him whether he asked from
A4 how much he used to charge from the persons for providing
passport on the basis of forged documents, he deposed that he must
have asked from A4 but the same is not the part of the record. (i) From the above deposition of PW46, it can safely be
culled out that he did not find any direct evidence about the
conspiracy. He had drawn the inference on the basis of role played by
them. It is pertinent to state here that A2 was posted as counter clerk
and being the counter-clerk, it was his duty to receive the application
and to deal with it. Similarly, A1 was posted in the RPO as PIA and
being the PIA, it was his duty to take a decision on the application in
one way or the other way. Similarly, A3 was posted in HIT section and
it was his duty to deal with the files. There is nothing on record which
may suggests that there was any meeting of mind either between A4
and A2 or there was any meeting of mind between A1 and A3 on the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 87 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. one hand and A2 on the other hand. Similarly, there is no evidence
that there was any meeting of mind between A1 and A3 on the one
hand and A4 on the other hand. Mere fact that A1 to A3 had dealt with
the files in question is ipso-facto, in the absence of any other cogent
evidence, is not sufficient to draw a conclusion that there was any
conspiracy among the said persons or that A1 to A3 had acted in
pursuance of the any conspiracy. (ii) From the deposition of PW46, it also becomes clear
that A1 to A3 had not obtained any pecuniary gain for their alleged
acts. Had they been in conspiracy with A4 or with any other accused
person, it is highly improbable that they would assist A4 in getting
additional passport booklet in assumed names without taking any
illegal consideration or valuable thing. Even PW46 did not depose that
A4 was in conspiracy with A2 when he used to approach him at the
counter. Further, there is no evidence qua this fact. It is also not clear
who told him about the same. Admittedly, PW46 had not even placed
the statement of accused persons, which he allegedly recorded during
investigation. Admittedly, PW46 had not recorded the disclosure
statement of any of the accused persons. In the absence of any
cogent evidence, there is no substance in the deposition of PW46 that
A4 used to produce the documents before the counter clerk i.e A2
pursuant to any conspiracy. (iii) It is admitted case of CBI that at the time of obtaining
additional passport booklets in the assumed name of Harbans Lal
Suri, applicants had filed the photostate copy of passport bearing No.
B-1792351, but on all the occasions photograph of passport holder CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 88 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. pasted on the photostate copy was of a different person. Similarly, at
the time of obtaining additional passport in the assumed name of
Neha Suri and Dashrath Suri, though the copy of their previous
passports was enclosed but with the photograph of different person.
But surprisingly, no investigation was done by the CBI to find out how
the applicants used to affix their photograph on the passport after
removing the photo of original passport holder. Similarly, no attempt
was made to recover any mechanism by which the accused used to
affix the photograph of the applicant on the original passport.
Investigating officer failed to ascertain the modus-operandi of the
accused persons. To unearth the conspiracy among the accused
persons, it was the prime duty of investigating officer to ascertain how
the accused persons used to affix the photograph of applicants on the
original passport and copy thereof. Had there been any such evidence
on record, it would help the prosecution to prove conspiracy among
the accused persons. But unfortunately, there is no such evidence. (iv) As already stated to prove the conspiracy, prosecution
has to prove meeting of mind among the accused persons. But during
trial, CBI failed to adduce any such evidence. Mere fact that A1 to A3
were posted in the same office and they dealt with the files in question
while discharging their official duties is ipso-facto not sufficient to
prove that they had acted in furtherance of any conspiracy. In the
absence of any cogent evidence on record, I am of the considered
opinion that CBI has failed to prove the charge of conspiracy, thus
accused persons cannot be held liable for the acts of each other,
however accused persons shall be liable for their individual acts, if
their acts attract commission of any offence. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 53. Further, it is admitted case of CBI that accused
persons had abused their official position while dealing with request
letters/applications for issuance of additional passport booklets. In
other words, it is admitted case of CBI that there was reasonable
nexus between the acts of the accused persons and their official
duties. Thus, to my mind sanction under Section 197 Cr.P.C was also
required for the penal offences qua public servants. In this regard,
reliance is placed on: Contentions relating to sanction under Section 19 of PC Act
& under Section 15 of Passport Act:- 54. Learned counsel appearing for A1 to A3 vehemently CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 90 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. argued that the sanction accorded under Sections 19 of PC Act and
15 of PP Act is defective as sanctioning authority had not applied its
mind before according the sanction and the authority had acted in a
mechanical manner just by signing on the draft sanction placed before
it. It was further argued that sanctioning authority had not considered
the relevant material at the time of according the sanction. 55. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor countered the
said contentions by arguing that there is no defect in the sanction. 56. In this regard the testimony of PW11 Mr. Radha
Ranjan Dash and PW43 Mr. Sharat Sabharwal are relevant. (i) PW11 Mr. Radha Ranjan Dash in his examination-in-
chief deposed that he was competent to remove the accused persons
namely Harbhajan Yadav (A2) and Ram Chander (A3) whereas PW43
deposed that he was competent to remove the accused Bibianus
Toppo (A1) and accordingly they accorded the sanction as sought by
the CBI. They further testified that before according the sanction, they
had gone through the documents/records sent by the CBI. PW11
clarified that the said documents were comprising of statements of
prosecution witnesses, copies of documents and the investigating
report. Both the witnesses deposed that before according the
sanction, they satisfied themselves after going through the record that
a case is made out as alleged by the CBI. In their cross-examination,
they denied the suggestion that they had accorded the sanction
without application of mind. Even PW11 clarified that he had not
received any draft sanction from the CBI. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ii) From the deposition of PW11 and PW43, it becomes
clear that PW11 was competent to remove A2 and A3 from the service
whereas PW43 was competent to remove A1 from the service. From
their deposition, it is also clear that at the time of obtaining sanction,
investigating agency had sent investigation report along with
statement of witnesses and incriminating documents. Both the
witnesses categorically deposed that before according the sanction ,
they had gone through the documents, which shows that they had
applied their mind while accorded the sanction. 57. In case Mohd. Iqbal Ahmed Vs State of Andhra
Pradesh , 1979 SCC (Crl.) 926, Apex Court held that an order of
sanction or valid sanction can be proved by the Sanctioning Authority
in two ways either:- Thus, there is no reason to disbelieve the testimony of PW11 and
PW43. (ii) During the cross-examination of PW11 and PW43, an
attempt was made to cause a dent in their testimony on the grounds CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 92 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. that the investigating agency had not placed entire material before
them at the time of seeking sanction or they had not applied their mind
or they had accorded sanction at the behest of CBI. But all these
suggestions were categorically denied by them. (iii) It is pertinent to mention here that during the cross-
examination of PW11 and PW43, no attempt was made by the
defence counsel to call for the original file in order to establish their
plea that no material was placed before the sanctioning authority at
the time of seeking sanction against the accused persons or that
sanction was granted on the basis of draft sanction produced by the
CBI or without application of mind. (iv) Apex Court in the case title State of Maharashtra Vs
Mahesh G. Jain , criminal appeal No. 2345 of 2009 decided on May
28, 2013 summed up the Principles and guidelines which are required
to be followed to decide the question which inundates the trial Court,
challenging the sanction order. Hon'ble Apex Court after appreciating
earlier precedents on the subject had culled out the guiding Principles
in Para 13 of the judgements, which are reproduced as under: that the sanction accorded under Section 19 of PC Act and 15 of PP
Act are defective. Contentions on behalf of accused Ram Chander (A3):- 58. Learned counsel appearing for A3 vehemently
contended that since there is a delay of 10 months in registration of
FIR, a reasonable doubt arises over the prosecution case as the said
delay remained unexplained during trial. (i) It was further argued that in terms of Section 224 Cr.P.C
charges should have been dropped by the prosecution against the
accused as accused had already been convicted in similar matters. (ii) It was further argued that there is no cogent evidence
on record to establish that the facility of checking photographs and
signatures of the passport holder was available in the computer
provided to A3. It was argued that there is no cogent evidence except
the process sheets to establish that A3 had given HIT clearance in
three files in question. (iii) It was further argued that there is every possibility that
the P number and Password of A3 had been misused by some
unscrupulous person. It was argued that in the absence of any cogent
evidence, A3 cannot be held guilty for giving HIT clearance in the files. (iv) It was further argued that there is no iota of evidence
on record to establish that A3 had taken any valuable thing or CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 95 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. pecuniary advantage from the applicant or any other person at the
time of giving alleged HIT clearance. (v) In support of his contention, counsel placed reliance on
the judgment K.M. Sujith v. State of Kerala, CRL A. No. 1707 of
2005 decided by High Court of Kerala on October 21, 2009. 59. Per contra, learned Sr. Public Prosecutor appearing
for the CBI refuted the said contentions by arguing sagaciously that
there is no delay in registration of FIR, hence the same is not fatal to
the prosecution case in any manner. It was further argued that
provisions of Section 224 Cr.P.C are not applicable in the facts and
circumstances of the present case. (i) It was further argued that there are overwhelming
evidence on record to establish beyond reasonable doubts that A3
was not only posted in HIT Section at the relevant time but he also
dealt with the files in question and he had given HIT clearance without
pointing out the dissimilarity in the photograph and signature of the
applicants as well as without pointing out that additional passport
booklets had been issued in the name of applicant i.e. Harbans Lal
Suri earlier. It was further argued that during trial, A3 failed to adduce
any evidence to prove the fact that his P number and password were
misused by anyone. Findings qua accused Ram Chander (A3):- 60. It is undisputed fact that the FIR was registered on CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 96 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. April 28, 2005 and same is Ex. PW45/A. (i) Perusal of the FIR reveals that the same was
registered on receipt of the complaint Ex. PW42/A from Mr. R. K.
Aggarwal, the then DSP. There is nothing on record which may show
that any complaint was received prior to April 28, 2005. Mere fact that
the complaint was related to the offences committed in past is not
sufficient to hold that there was any delay in registration of FIR. Thus, I
do not find any substance in the contention of learned defence
counsel that there was inordinate delay in registration of FIR and
same is fatal to the prosecution case. 61. Now coming to the Section 224 Cr.P.C, which reads as
under:- than one charges and accused had been held guilty for one or more
charges. In such circumstances, the complainant or the prosecution
as the case may be with the consent of the Court may withdraw the
remaining charges. Since in the present case, accused has not been
held guilty, the question of withdrawal of the charges does not arise.
Moreover, as per Section 224 Cr.P.C, it is prerogative of complainant
or the prosecution to withdraw the charges and accused can not claim
as a matter of right to drop the charges. Thus, to my mind, in the facts
and circumstances of the case, Section 224 Cr.P.C is not applicable. 62. A3 in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C
took the plea that though he was working in HIT Section but submitted
that his seat in HIT section was in open space where entry of public as
well as employees of RPO was free and his P number was known to
the NIC staff. A3 took the plea that since public/staff used to be
present in the said hall, there is every possibility that unscrupulous
person might have noted down his password at the time of opening of
the computer and later on that unscrupulous person might have
misused the same by giving HIT clearance in the files in question. (i) From the above, it becomes abundantly clear that
accused had taken the plea that in the present case HIT clearance
might have been given by some unknown unscrupulous person by
misusing his password and P number. (ii) In order to establish that A3 had given HIT clearance in
all the files, prosecution has placed reliance on the process sheets
Ex. PW2/E, PW2/F, PW2/G, PW2/H, PW2/L and PW2/N. CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 98 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iii) As per Ex. PW2/E and Ex. PW2/L, HIT clearance was
given by A3 on February 5, 2004 and February 6, 2004 in respect of
additional passport booklet bearing no. E-7710049 and E-7710129
issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri and Neha Suri respectively. (iv) As per Ex. PW2/F, A3 had given the HIT clearance on
March 11, 2004 in respect of the additional passport booklet bearing
No. E-7988967 issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri. Similarly, as
per Ex. PW2/N, A3 had given the HIT clearance on April 8, 2004 in
respect of the additional passport booklet bearing No. E-8583770
issued in the name of Dashrath Suri. (v) As per Ex. PW2/G, A3 had given the HIT clearance on
May 27, 2004 in respect of additional passport booklet bearing No. E-
8580773 and similarly as per Ex. PW2/H, A3 had given the HIT
clearance on June 11, 2004 in respect of additional passport booklet
bearing No. E8914602, both issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri. (vi) Thus, from the above documents it becomes crystal
clear that A3 had given the HIT clearance in respect of all six
additional passport booklets which were issued in the name of
Harbans Lal Suri, Neha Suri and Dashrath Suri. (vii) PW3 in his examination-in-chief deposed that the
system of HIT clearance was introduced initially in the year 2000 and
till July, 2002 there was no facility of checking photographs and
signatures in the computers installed in HIT Section. However, the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 99 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. said facility was available in one computer of HIT section since August
2002. He further testified that since April, 2004 the above said facility
was provided in all the computers installed in HIT Section. In his
cross-examination, he deposed that he did not know in whose PC, the
facility of checking of photograph and signature was initially provided
in the HIT Section in August 2002. He further deposed that in HIT
Section there was a facility to check old passport booklet numbers of
the applicant and same was required to be verified by HIT Section.
Thus from the testimony of PW3, it becomes crystal clear that facility
of checking photograph and signature of the applicant was available in
one PC of the HIT Section since August 2002, and the said facility was
extended in all the computers of HIT Section since April 2004. It also
becomes clear that the officials of the HIT Section were able to
compare and verify the detail of the applicant with the old references.
It means that if any additional booklet had been issued in the name of
applicant, the official posted in HIT Section would come to know about
the same and its number, accordingly, he would be in a position to
state whether any booklet had been issued in the name of applicant or
not. Though PW3 deposed that facility of checking photographs and
signatures was available in one PC of the HIT Section. But there is no
evidence on record to prove that any such computer was given to A3
or not. It means that prosecution has failed to establish that prior to
April 2004, A3 was not in a position to compare the photograph and
signature of the applicant with photograph and signature of the original
passport holder. But he was in a position to see whether any
additional passport booklet had been issued in the name of applicant
or not. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 63. As already discussed that in three files the HIT
clearance was given prior to April 2004 i.e. on February 5, 2004 (Ex.
PW2/E), March 11, 2004 (Ex.PW2/F) and February 6, 2004 (Ex.
PW2/L). In other words, at the time of giving HIT clearance in the said
files, A3 was not in a position to compare the photographs and
signatures of the applicants with the photograph and signature of
original passport holders. 64. In respect of Harbans Lal Suri, A3 had given the HIT
clearance first time on February 5, 2004 in respect of additional
passport booklet bearing No. E-7710049 (Ex. PW2/E). Since, the
personal particulars of the applicant were similar to the personal
particulars of the original passport holder and there was no facility in
his computer to compare the photograph and signature of the
applicant, it can not be said that there was any lapse on the part of A3
while giving HIT clearance in the said file. (i) However, A3 had also given the HIT clearance in
respect of three other additional passport booklets (E-7988967, E-
8580773 and E-8914602) on March 11, 2004, May 27, 2004 and June
11, 2004 respectively, which were issued in the name of Harbans Lal
Suri. It means that at that time, A3 was in a position to check that one
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-7710049 had already been
issued in the name of applicant. Since, in the said files, applicant had
not mentioned that he applied for second additional passport booklet;
rather, applicant had mentioned that he was applying first time for the
additional passport booklet. In these circumstances, it was the duty of
A3 to record objection that one additional passport booklet bearing CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 101 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. No. E-7710049 had already been issued in the name of applicant at
the time of giving the HIT clearance in the second file on March 11,
2004. Similarly, he was also required to record objection at the time of
giving HIT clearance in third and fourth file by highlighting that the
additional passport booklets had been issued previously in the name
of applicant. But he failed to do so. (ii) From the testimony of PW3, it has been established
that since April 2004, the facility of checking photograph and signature
was available in all the computers of HIT section. It means that he
was in a position to even compare the photograph and signature of
the applicant at the time of giving HIT clearance on May 27, 2004 and
June 11, 2004. Indisputably, the photograph of the applicant in the
aforesaid files was not of the original passport holder but of different
persons. Despite that A3 failed to highlight the same. 65. In respect of Neha Suri, A3 had given the HIT
clearance on February 6, 2004 when no facility of comparing the
photograph and signature was available in his computer. Since the
other particulars of the applicant were similar to that of Neha Suri and
applicant stated that it was her first additional passport booklet, there
was no occasion for A3 to raise any suspicion when he had given the
HIT clearance in favour of Ms. Neha Suri. (i) Though in respect of Dashrath Suri, HIT clearance was
given on April 8, 2004, but there is no evidence on record that the
facility of comparing photograph and signature of the applicant was
available in all the computer of HIT Section on April 8, 2004 or not. No CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 102 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. doubt, A3 deposed that the said facility was provided in all computers
of HIT Section in April 2004 but he did not disclose the exact date of
April. In these circumstances, A3 deserves benefit of doubt as
prosecution failed to establish beyond doubt that the said facility was
available in all the computers of HIT Section on April 8, 2004. Since,
other particulars of the applicant were similar to that of Dashrath, there
was no occasion for A3 to raise suspicion. 66. From the above discussion, it becomes clear that A3
was in a position to raise objection in respect of three additional
passport booklets issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri. But despite
that A3 did not raise any objection. 67. Now coming to the contention regarding mis-use of
password. (i) It is undisputed fact that HIT clearance was used to be
given through computers by the officials posted in HIT Section. It is
also undisputed fact that the officials posted in RPO could access the
file by using their allotted P number and password. Password always
remains in the personal knowledge of an individual employee.
Needless to say that it is the duty of an employee not to share his
password with anyone. Moreover, in the instant case A3 had not taken
any plea that he had shared his password with anyone. If he had
shared his password with anyone or same was misused by anyone,
onus is shifted upon him under Section 106 of Evidence Act to explain
under which circumstances, he had shared his password or under
which circumstances his password was misused. But he failed to CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 103 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. discharge the said burden. Similarly, he also failed to adduce any
evidence to prove the identity of the person who allegedly noted down
his 'P' number and password at the time of opening the computer.
Further, if he had doubt that the person standing nearly him had noted
down his password, he should have changed his password. But A3
even failed to disclose when he came to know that some one might
have noted down his password. In the absence of any cogent
evidence on record, I do not find any substance in the plea that
someone had misused his password. (ii) Being the official of RPO posted at HIT Section, it was his
duty to point out the above discrepancies in the application but he
failed to highlight the same. During trial, he failed to give any
explanation whatsoever for the above said lapses on his part. In the
absence of any cogent evidence on record, it can safely be culled out
that he had deliberately not highlighted the above said discrepancies
in the applications. (iii) Since, A3 was posted in HIT Section, he must knew very
well that the passport would be issued on the basis of his report. But
despite that he failed to raise any objection and failed to highlight the
discrepancies as stated above, which was not in the public interest.
Admittedly while giving HIT clearance he was acting as public servant
and he was holding public office and by his acts, he assisted the
applicants to get passport in favour of fictitious persons, which was not
in public interest. Accordingly, I am of the view that A3 has committed
an offence under Section 13(1) (d) (iii) of PC Act. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Common contentions qua Harbhajan Yadav (A2) and
Bibianus Toppo (A1) :- 68. Learned counsel appearing for A2 fairly conceded that
at the relevant time, A2 was posted as counter clerk but contended
that he made recommendations in the files in question for issuance of
additional passport booklet in good faith while discharging his official
duties. It was further argued that whenever the applicants moved the
application for issuance of additional passport, applicants used to
place the copy of previous passport and they also produced the
original passport for inspection. It was urged that same was checked
by A2 and on checking, he found that the photograph affixed on the
application form was of the same person in whose favour the original
passport was issued as his photograph was also found affixed on the
said passport, thus it cannot be said that A2 had committed any
offence when he made a recommendation to issue additional passport
booklet in favour of the applicants from time to time. It was further
contended that no instrument was provided to the counter clerk to
check the genuineness of the documents and photocopy thereof
produced by the applicants. It was further contended that as per
practice and rules, A2 had affixed all requisite stamps at the relevant
spaces provided in the forms, thus it cannot be said that he had
committed any offence. 69. Similarly, counsel appearing for accused Bibianus
Toppo (A1) contended that he had dealt with the files in good faith on
the recommendation made by his subordinate i.e. A2. It was argued
that since A2 had checked the files thoroughly before putting the same
before A1, there was no occasion for A1 to raise any suspicion over CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 105 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the acts of A2. It was argued that since A2 had made the
recommendation in all the files for issuance of additional passport
booklets and also affixed requisite stamps at the relevant spaces
provided in the form, there was no occasion for A1 to raise any
suspicion. It was argued that A1 had acted in good faith. (i) It was further contended that even no instrument was
provided to A1 to check the genuineness of the original documents
and copies thereof of, which were produced by the applicants at the
time of seeking additional passport booklets. It was further contended
that since the documents had already been checked by A2, there was
no reason for A1 to raise any suspicion over the acts of his
subordinate. (ii) It was further contended that infact applicants had
cheated A1 and A2 by seeking additional passport booklets repeatedly
on the basis of copy of the same passport. (iii) It was further contended that though there may be
some lapses on the part of counter clerk and PIA as they failed to
detect the fraud played by the applicants, but said lapses on their part
are not sufficient to prove the criminality as there is no evidence of any
dishonest intention against them. 70. Per contra, learned Senior Public Prosecutor
appearing for CBI refuted the said contentions by arguing that A2 had
made the recommendation for issuance of additional passport booklet
in all the files without going through the original passports as he was CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 106 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. in conspiracy with the applicants. It was further submitted that the
same passport was used for obtaining four additional passports
booklets in the name of Harbans Lal Suri, which was not permissible.
It was submitted that the original passport could be used only once at
the time of obtaining first additional passport booklet, thereafter,
applicant was supposed to produce additional passport booklet at the
time of obtaining second additional passport booklet and similarly he
was supposed to produce second additional passport at the time of
obtaining third additional passport booklet and so on. But in the instant
case, A2 made the recommendation on the basis of same passport.
Similarly, A1 cleared the files without checking it. This shows that
they had acted so being the members of conspiracy. (i) It was further contended that the plea of good faith is
not available to either of the accused persons as they acted
dishonestly. It was further contended that even no instrument was
required to detect the fraud played by the applicants. But they
deliberately did not raise any objection as they were members of the
conspiracy. Findings qua accused Harbhajan Yadav (A2) and Bibianus
Toppo (A1):- 71. It is undisputed fact that A2 was posted as counter
clerk whereas A1 was posted as Passport Issuing Authority being
Superintendent at the relevant time. It is also undisputed fact that all
the six files relating to additional passport booklets were dealt with by
A2 being the counter clerk. It is also undisputed fact that in all the files
except one i.e Ex. PW3/J, A1 had passed the promise date and in all CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 107 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the files, A1 had passed the grant order. It is also undisputed fact that
in all the files except one i.e. Ex. PW3/Q, A1 had signed the passport.
In file Ex. PW3/J, the promise date was given by PW34 Ms. Asia
whereas in the file Ex. PW3/Q, the additional passport booklet was
signed by Mr. Tej Ram, the then PIA. (ii) Perusal of the six additional passport booklet files
further reveals that at the time of seeking additional passport booklets,
applicants had also submitted a request letter wherein they mentioned
the reasons for seeking additional passport booklets. Perusal of the
said request letters reveals that the applicants sought additional
passport booklets on the ground that pages of previous passport had
been full and they had to visit abroad urgently. (iii) Now question arises what was the duty of A2 being
the counter clerk and A1 being the PIA at the time of dealing with the
applications of the applicants in question. (iv) Since, the applicants sought additional passport
booklets on the ground that pages of previous passport had been full
and they had to visit abroad urgently, it was the duty of A2 being the
counter clerk and A1 being the PIA to check whether the pages of
previous passport had already been full or not. 72. Fortunately, in the present matter, the investigating
agency succeeded to recover the original passport bearing No. B-
1792351 issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri, on the basis of
which, four additional passport booklets were issued in favour of CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 108 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. different persons in the assumed name and personal particulars of
Harbans Lal Suri. Similarly, CBI had also succeeded to recover the
original passport bearing No. E-1928694 issued in the name of Ms.
Neha Suri, on the basis of which, one additional passport booklet
bearing No. E-7710129 was issued. Similarly, CBI had also
succeeded to recover the original passport bearing No. A-8483983 in
the name of Mr. Dashrath Suri, on the basis of which, additional
passport booklet bearing No. E-8583770 was issued. 73. Perusal of the original passport bearing No. B-
1792351 (Ex. PW13/D1) reveals that all the pages except five pages
are blank. Similarly, perusal of original passport booklet bearing No. A-
8483983 (Ex. PW8/C) reveals that all the pages except two pages are
blank. Similarly, perusal of the original passport booklet bearing No. E-
1928694 (Ex. PW12/B) reveals that all the pages of except two are
blank. 74. Now question arises whether any instrument was
required to see whether the pages of previous passport had been full
in the original passport of the applicants. The answer is certainly in
negative. Had A1 and A2 just opened the passport of the applicants,
they would have come to know immediately that the substantial pages
of the original passport are still blank and unused. This itself was
sufficient enough for A1 and A2 to examine the matter minutely, but
they preferred not to check the original passport. 75. Perusal of the original passport of Ms. Neha Suri and
Mr. Dashrath Suri reveals that photographs of the applicants was CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 109 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. affixed on the original passports. On the basis of this, they took the
plea that since the photograph of the applicants was affixed on the
original passports, there was no occasion for them to raise any doubt
and since no instrument was provided to check genuineness of the
documents, they failed to detect fraud played by the applicants upon
them. (i) Indisputably, A1 and A2 have been working in the
RPO, New Delhi since long, thus by experience they must have
attained some expertise while dealing with the original passport.
Perusal of the passport reveals that though the original passport bears
the photograph of the applicants, but the signature below their
photograph is in original. Similarly, the photograph of the applicants is
also in original whereas scanned copy of photograph and signature
appear on the passport of a person and this fact is further clear from
the additional passport booklet issued in the name of said applicants.
This itself was sufficient to raise a suspicion or at least to make further
inquiry in the matter, but they failed to do so. 76. Further, perusal of the original passport issued in the
name of Ms. Neha Suri (Ex. PW12/B) reveals that the particulars of
Ms. Neha Suri are filled up in hand with blank ink whereas on the
photocopy of the said passport, which was enclosed with the
application at the time of seeking additional passport booklet,
particulars of Ms. Neha Suri are typed. This further shows that neither
A2 nor A1 had even compared the original passport with the
photocopy. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (i) Similarly, perusal of the original passport bearing No.
B-1792351 (Ex. PW13/D1) issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri
reveals that though the photograph of applicant in whose favour the
additional passport booklet bearing No. E-8914602 had been issued
was affixed, but it is not the scanned copy of his photograph; rather it
is original one. Similarly, below his photograph, the signature is
appearing in original in blue ink while it should be scanned. This itself
was sufficient enough to raise a query or make detail inquiry in the
matter but they failed to do so. (ii) Perusal of the original passport of the above
applicants makes it clear that at the time of seeking additional
passport booklets, the applicants used to affix their photograph by
removing the photograph of the original passport holder and they also
put their signatures on the slip pasted below their photograph on the
passport and thereafter, the said pages used to be laminated.
Thereafter, the photocopy of the said passport used to be annexed
along with the application for seeking additional passport booklet in
the name of original passport holder with their own photograph. In this
manner, the applicant used to get additional passport booklet in
fictitious name. (iii) It is undisputed fact that at the time of issuing the
additional passport booklet, it is the duty of Passport Issuing Authority
to cancel the original passport and if there is a valid visa in the said
passport, the RPO shall affix the stamp "Extended by the issue of a
fresh booklet." in terms of circular dated November 25, 1997 (Ex.
2/DG). Perusal of the original passport of Mr. Harbans Lal Suri, Mr. CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 111 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Dashrath Suri and Ms. Neha Suri reveals that no such stamp was
affixed on their passport. This further shows that the original passports
were not cancelled either by A2 being the counter clerk or by A1 being
the PIA at the time of issuing additional passport booklets. 77. From the foregoing discussion, the following facts
emerge:- (a) That the pages of previous
 passport had not been full as claimed by the
 applicants at the time of seeking additional
 passport booklets from time to time. (b) That the original passports were
 not cancelled in terms of either circular dated
 June 24, 1997 (Ex. PW2/DH) or November 25,
 1997 (Ex. PW2/DG). (c) That original signatures were
 appearing on the passports, which was another
 clue for A1 and A2 to raise suspicion because
 the signature should be scanned and not in
 original. (d) That the photograph of the
 applicants should be scanned copy in the
 original passport but it was not so and this was
 another clue to raise suspicion or make further CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 112 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. inquiry. (e) No instrument was required to see
 whether the pages of previous passports had
 been full or not. Similarly, no scientific
 instrument was required to see whether the
 signature of the passport holder was appearing
 in original on the original passport or it is
 scanned one because the same is visible with
 naked eyes. Similarly, no such scientific
 instrument was required to find out whether the
 photograph of applicant is in original on the
 passport produced for inspection or it was a
 scanned copy. (i) Thus, I do not find any substance in the plea of A1 and A2
that since no instrument was provided to them to check the
genuineness of the document, they could not detect the fraud played
by the applicants. Similarly, in the above facts and circumstances,
plea of good faith is not available to them because A1 and A2 failed to
take due care and attention at the time of dealing with the request of
applicants for issuance of additional passport booklet. Additional contentions raised on behalf of A1: - 78. Learned counsel appearing for A1 astutely contended
that since A1 was over burdened, there may be possibility that the
above lapses had taken place due to oversight. It was also urged that CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 113 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. since there was no wilful wrongful act on the part of A1, A1 cannot be
held guilty for the above said lapses. In support of his contention,
counsel placed reliance on various judgements namely Sudhdeo
Jha Utpel v/s. State of Bihar, AIR 1957 Supreme Court 466; Rajiv
Kumar Goyal @ Raj Kumar Goyal Vs State through CBI in
Criminal Appeal No. 265 of 2008 decided on August 08, 2014 by
the High Court of Delhi and S.P. Bhatnagar etc. vs. State of
Maharashtra AIR 1979, SC 826. 79. Per contra, learned Sr. Public Prosecutor appearing
for CBI countered the said contentions by arguing that overburdened
cannot be taken as an excuse to justify the wrongful criminal act. It
was further contended that the above said judgments are not
applicable in the facts and circumstances of the present case. 80. As already held that neither A2 nor A1 deemed it
appropriate to verify whether the pages of previous passport had been
full or not. Similarly, they made no attempt to raise an objection
despite the fact that the signature and photograph of the applicants on
the original passport was not a scanned copy but it was in original.
Further, neither the counter clerk nor PIA had made an attempt to
cancel the original passport either in terms of circular dated June 24,
1996 (Ex.PW2/DH) or to put up a stamp on the original passport in
terms of circular dated November 25, 1997 (Ex. PW2/DG). It is
pertinent to state that during trial, no reasonable explanation has been
furnished by A1 and A2 for the above said lapses. It is also pertinent to
state that being the PIA, it was the duty of A1 to satisfy himself
whether the pages of previous passport had been full or not. But he CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 114 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. failed to do so. The plea of A1 that he acted on the recommendation of
A2 is not tenable in the facts and circumstances of the case. If the
said plea be accepted, it would mean that PIA intends to say that he
was not required to check the previous passport before issuing the
additional passport booklet, which is not trustworthy and tenable.
Similarly, being the PIA, it was the duty of A1 to see whether the
counter clerk had cancelled the previous passport or not. But he failed
to do so. Similarly, being PIA, it was the duty of A1 to make inquiry
how the signatures and photographs of the applicants are appearing
in original on the passport while it should be a scanned copy. But he
failed to do so. In the facts and circumstances of the case at hand, I
am of the considered opinion that there is no substance in the plea of
A1 that he failed to detect the fraud as he was overburdened at the
relevant time. 81. Now coming to the judgements referred to by the
learned defence counsel. Before dealing with the said judgments, it is
pertinent to state that a particular judgment is to be read in the context
of facts involved therein. Mere fact that in a case, on the basis of
peculiar facts and circumstances of that case, work load is considered
as one of the relevant facts in favour of the accused is not sufficient to
hold that it becomes a universal rule that as and when the accused
takes the plea of work load, Court would be bound to pass order in
favour of the accused. (i) To my mind, the judgement Sudhdeo Jha Utpel v/s. State of Bihar , (supra) is not helpful to A1 as the facts of the said
case were totally different from the facts of case at hand. The said CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 115 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. case relates to the offence punishable under Section 420 / 193 / 120B IPC whereas the main allegations against Bibianus Toppo (A1) is for
the offence punishable under Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act. The
ingredients of Section 420 IPC and 13(1)(d) of PC Act are totally
different. Moreover, in the said matter there were sufficient material on
record to support the claim of appellant that the company used to pay
road tax to the tune of ` 40,000/- and there were several branches of
the company, thus it was not feasible for the appellant being the
General Manager to know whether any particular vehicle was of road
worthy or road tax qua any particular vehicle had been paid or not.
On the contrary, in the instant matter Bibianus Toppo (A1) was acting
as Passport Issuing Authority, thus it was his responsibility to satisfy
himself prior to issuing the passport/additional passport booklets
whether the documents submitted by the applicants supports their
claim or not. (ii) Now coming to the judgement title Rajiv Kumar Goyal
@ Raj Kumar Goyal Vs State through CBI in Criminal Appeal No.
265 of 2008 decided on August 08, 2014 by the High Court of
Delhi. No doubt, in the said judgment , the workload was considered
as one of the grounds at the time of acquitting the accused who was a
public servant. But it was not the sole ground to acquit the accused. I
have perused the said judgement carefully. To my mind, the said
judgement is not helpful to the accused in any manner as the facts
involved therein were totally different from the facts of the case at
hand. In the said matter, the accused was acquitted on multiple
grounds including that CBI failed to establish whether the documents
from the files were already missing when the appellant had passed the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 116 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. claims in favour of fictitious persons or the documents were removed
later on and the same is clear from para 28 which reads as under :- 82. In the present case, fraud could be detected by A1 by
just opening the original passport which was allegedly produced by
the applicants at the time of seeking additional passport booklets and CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 117 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. by applying his mind. Thus, in my view the said judgment is also not
helpful to A1 in any manner. 83. Now coming to the case S.P. Bhatnagar etc. State of
Maharashtra (supra). It is pertinent to state that the facts involved in
the present case were totally different from the facts of the case at
hand. Moreover, in the said case work-load was not only a criteria to
exonerate the accused from the charges; rather there was evidence
on record that no action was taken against other accused persons
who also counter signed the bills and there was evidence on record
that counter signature on the bills does not means verification of the
bills. It only show that there was no reason to doubt the correctness of
the figures. Relevant portion is reproduced as under:- approximate quantity of the work done. All this
 apart, an examination of the running bills
 (Exhibits 51, 53, 54, 55 and 56) shows that all of
 them bear the certificates as referred to and
 reproduced at page 11 of this judgment. It would
 be noted that whereas first three of these bills
 bear the counter-signatures of A2, Bill (Ex. 55)
 bears the countersignatures of K.S.Joshi; Senior
 Engineer and Bill (Exh.56) bears the counter-
 signatures of Ramrao, another Senior Engineer,
 who was absolved in the departmental enquiry.
 Now the fact that A2 countersigned the first
 three bills does not appear to be material in view
 of the following statement made by Ramrao vide
 Exhibit 107:- (emphasis supplied) 84. On the contrary in the present case, under Passport
Rules, A1 being the Passport Issuing Authority was responsible for the
issuance of additional passport booklets, thus it was his duty to satisfy
himself whether there is any material in support of the claim of
applicants. As already discussed that in the instant case, there was no
material on record to establish whether the pages of previous passport
had been full. On the contrary, there is evidence that there is
overwhelming evidence on record to establish that if A1 had opened
the original passports that were produced at the time of seeking
additional passport booklets, he would have come to know about the
fraud played by the applicants, but he did not deem it appropriate
even to open the original passports. Thus, to my mind, the said CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 119 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. judgment is not helpful to A1 in any manner. 85. Learned counsel appearing for A1 vigorously argued
that A1 is entitled for acquittal on the ground of parity as in one file
(Ex. PW3/J), the promise date was given by PW34 Ms. Asia on the
basis of same material as A1 passed promise date in other five files
but CBI did not charge-sheet her in the present matter; rather CBI
cited her as a prosecution witness. It was further argued that though in
another file Ex. PW3/Q, the passport was signed by Mr. Tej Ram being
PIA as A1 had signed in other five files but again CBI did not charg-
sheet him as an accused. Nor CBI cited him as a witness. 86. Learned counsel also claimed parity on the basis of
acts performed by Ms. Asia, S.P. Kothari Y.K. Kaushal in other matters
while dealing with similar matters being the PIAs. It was argued that in
the said matters, CBI did not implead them as an accused; rather cited
them as prosecution witnesses. It was argued that since the above
said persons acted similarly in other similar matters, A1 should also be
acquitted on the ground of parity. 87. In support of his contention learned counsel placed
reliance on the judgments namely State of Madhya Pradesh v/s.
Sheetla Sahai and others, (2009) 8 SCC, 617; L. Chandraiah v/s.
State of Andhra Pradesh, 2004 SC 252 and Shanker Mandal vs.
State 2001 Cri LJ 3795 (Jharkhand) and S.P. Bhatnagar & others
vs. State of Maharashtra (supra). 88. Per contra, counsel appearing for CBI refuted the said CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 120 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. contentions on the ground that the plea of parity is not available in the
present case as no discrimination had been made by the CBI with A1
qua the other accused persons. It was argued that mere fact that in
other matters, CBI had not impleaded some of the PIAs is not
sufficient to accept the plea of parity as the entire evidences of the
said case are not before this Court. Moreover, this Court is not
supposed to decide the present case on the basis of material filed by
the CBI in other cases. 89. First question arises whether A1 is entitled for
acquittal on the ground of parity qua Ms. Asia and Mr. Tej Ram. 90. Ms. Asia has been examined as PW34. In her cross-
examination, she deposed that she had not seen the file at the time of
passing the promise order in Ex. PW7/J. This establishes that PW34
had not even go through the file at the time of giving promise date. No
doubt, the conduct of PW34 is not appreciable in any manner because
being the PIA, it was her duty to see whether pages of previous
passport had been full or not at the time of giving the promise date.
Similarly, it was also her duty to see whether the previous passport
had been cancelled either in terms of circular dated June 24, 1997
(Ex. PW2/DH) or the stamp had been affixed in terms of circular dated
November 25, 1995 (Ex. PW2/DH). Similarly, being the PIA, it was
also her duty to make inquiry how the signature of passport holder
was appearing in original on the passport while it should be scanned.
Similarly, it was also her duty being PIA to make inquiry how the
original photograph of the applicant was appearing on the passport
while it should be scanned copy. But CBI to its wisdom did not deem it CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 121 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. appropriate to take any legal action or make recommendation for
disciplinary action against PW34. But to my mind, A1 is not entitled
for parity mere on the ground that PW34 acted negligently while
performing her duty as PIA because it shall mean that if one PIA acted
negligently, then other PIAs shall also become entitle to act negligently
or in violation of the settled norms. Needless to say that PIA is
responsible for the issuance of passport and additional passport
booklets. Since, the passport is an important document to prove the
nationality and identity of a person besides authorises a person to
travel beyond the territory of India, PIA is required to act diligently,
cautiously at the time of dealing with the request of applicants for
issuance of passport and additional passport booklets. To my mind
mere fact that PW34 acted negligently is not a ground to exonerate A1
from the charges despite the fact that it has been established that he
had not performed his duty diligently and in accordance with the
settled norms. 91. Indisputably, in the file Ex. PW3/Q the additional
passport booklet was signed by Tej Ram, who was acting as PIA on
that day. Indisputably, in the said file, A1 had not only given the
promise date but he also passed the grant order. There is nothing on
record which may suggest that at the time of signing the additional
passport booklet, PIA is also required to see the previous passport
whereas in the said file, A1 had opportunity to see the original
passport at the time of giving the promise date or at the time of
passing the grant order. Thus, to my mind, A1 is not entitled for parity
qua Tej Ram. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 92. Bibianus Toppo (A1) also claimed parity in respect of
PW8, PW15, PW19, PW20 and PW21. (i). Perusal of their statements reveals that they were
working in the RPO, New Delhi as ministerial staff. PW8 Virender
Singh was causal labour and he wrote passport number in the files
and also put a stamp in files. PW15 Amit Kumar Sharma was also
causal labour and his duty was to make entry, tagging the files,
scanning, writing of passport number, dispatch etc. He deposed that in
the present matters, he had printed the additional passport booklets
issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri and Neha Suri. PW19 Tara
Chand was causal labour till 2007 and was posted in detail entry
section and deposed that in all the files, he had done the entry work.
PW20 Puran Chand joined the RPO as causal labour and thereafter,
he became permanent and deposed that he had scanned the files in
the present matter. PW21 Suman Kumar Sehgal was posted in the
printing section. He had alloted the passport number. No doubt in their
cross-examination, said witnesses deposed that if they found any
discrepancy in the file, they used to bring the same in the notice of
their senior and testified that they had not noticed any discrepancy in
the files. On the basis of this statement, it was argued that since the
said officials failed to find discrepancy in the files, it can also be
presumed that A1 also failed to detect the discrepancy/fraud in the
files. But to my mind, there is no substance in the said plea because
the above said persons were performed the ministerial jobs while
dealing with the files in their respective sections and they were not
supposed to go through the file thoroughly as required by A1 being
PIA. Further, they had no opportunity to see the original passports to CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 123 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. see whether the pages had been full or not; whether original passports
bear the photo and signature in original or it was a scanned copy. 93. A1 also claimed parity qua Ms Asia, Savita Nanda, Y.
K. Kaushal, S.P.Kothari and U.S. Lingwal for the acts performed by
them in other matters i.e. CC No. 8/12, CC No. 25/09 and CC No.
6/12. 94. Admittedly, the above said persons had not dealt with
the files in question except Ms. Asia whose role had already been
discussed, thus it can not be said that CBI had made any
discrimination with A1 qua the above said persons in the present
matter. Indisputably, this Court is not supposed to give finding in the
present case on the basis of role performed by other PIAs in other
matters; rather this Court is supposed to give finding on the basis of
evidence adduced by the parties in the present matter. 95. Mere on the ground that in other matters, CBI did not
deem it appropriate to prosecute some PIAs who performed similar
acts as that of A1, in the present case, is not sufficient to hold that any
discrimination had been done by the CBI in the present matter with
A1. If in the said matters CBI had committed any discrimination with
the accused or adopted pick and choose policy, accused would have a
right to raise the issue in the said matters as A1 has raised in the
present case qua Ms. Asia in file Ex. PW7/J and qua Tej Ram in file
Ex. PW3/Q. But mere fact that CBI did not charge-sheet some of the
PIAs in other matters is not sufficient to exonerate A1, in the present
case. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 96. Now coming to the judgements cited by learned
defence counsel in support of his contentions. (i). To my mind the judgement State of Madhya Pradesh
v/s. Sheetla Sahai and others, (2009) 8 SCC, 617 and L.
Chandraiah v/s. State of Andhra Pradesh, 2004 SC 252 are not
applicable in the facts and circumstances of the present case. In both
the matters, investigating officer adopted the policy of pick and choose
while impleading the accused persons whereas in the present case,
no such pick and choose policy has been adopted by the investigating
officer. (ii). Similarly, the facts of Shanker Mandal vs. State (supra)
are totally different from the facts of the case at hand. In the said case,
accused Shanker Mandal was charge-sheeted on the ground that he
took the charge of Assistant Store Keeper and being Asstt. Store
Keeper, it was his duty to receive and issue diesel. However, it was
found that the stock did not match, accordingly, he was charge-
sheeted that he had misappropriated 1,07,885/- litres of diesel.
However, during trial, it came on evidence that not only the appellant
who used to receive and issue diesel, there were several other
persons also who used to receive and issue diesel. Further, there was
no order to prove that appellant was made In-charge of the Pump. On
the basis of evidence available on record, it was held that it cannot be
said that accused was only responsible for receiving and issuing
diesel. Since the other persons were not charge-sheeted, accused
was also acquitted on the ground that evidence led by prosecution
was not sufficient to prove his guilt whereas the facts of the present CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 125 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. case are totally different. (iii). Similarly, in S. P. Bhatnagar (supra) case. The facts
were totally different. In the said matter Ramrao also countered signed
the bills as done by the appellant but he was not chargesheeted.
Similarly, no action was taken against another person namely K. S.
Joshi who made wrong endorsement in respect of measurements. On
the basis of evidence available on record, it was observed by the
Court that it was difficult to understand how the appellant could be
treated differently from the above two persons whereas in the instant
case the person who made endorsement in favour of applicants i.e. A2
and the person who cleared the HIT i.e. A3 had also been made
accused by the CBI. Thus, it cannot be said that CBI had made any
discrimination against A1 in the present case. 97. Learned counsel appearing for A1 further contended
that since CBI failed to prove the charges of cheating and forgery
against A1, A1 cannot be held guilty for the offence punishable under Section 13 (2) of PC Act. In support of his contention, counsel placed
reliance on the judgment L. Chandraiah vs. State of A.P (supra). To
my mind the observations of the Hon`ble Court in the aforesaid case
that since prosecution failed to prove the guilt of accused for the
offence punishable under Section 467 / 471 & 409 IPC, he cannot be
held guilty under Prevention of Corruption Act is not helpful to the
accused in any manner. Perusal of the judgement reveals that in the
said matter the accused who was a public servant was charge-
sheeted for the offence punishable under Section 409 / 467 / 471 IPC
and Section 5(1)(c)(d) read with Section 5(2) of PC Act, 1947. Section CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 126 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 5(1)(c) and 5(1)(d) reads as under:- 98. It was held in the said judgment that since prosecution
failed to prove dishonest intention which was an essential ingredient to
prove the guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section
409 / 467 and 471 IPC, accused cannot be held guilty under Prevention
of Corruption Act . However, as already discussed that no dishonest
intention is required to prove the guilt of accused for the offence under Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) of PC Act, thus the said judgment is not helpful
to the accused in this case. 99. Learned counsel appearing for A1 further vigorously
contended that even under clause (iii) of Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act,
the word 'Obtains' is used, which reflects that there must be some
dishonest intention on the part of public servant. In support of his
contention, reliance has been placed on the judgment Subhash
Parbat Sonvane vs. State of Gujrat in Crl. Appeal No. 546/2002
decided by Apex court on April 24, 2002. No doubt in the said
judgement Hon`ble Court had interpreted the word 'Obtain' but it is CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 127 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. nowhere stated that dishonest intention is required to prove the guilt of
a person under Section 13(1) (d)(iii) of PC Act. As per the judgment,
'Obtained' means to secure or gain (something) as the result of
request or effort. It was further held that in order to convict a person
under Section 13(1)(d) there must be evidence on record that accused
obtained for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or
pecuniary advantage by either corrupt or illegal means or by abusing
his position as a public servant or he obtained for any person any
valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest.
Since in the instant case, the act of A1 and other public servants
relates to clause (iii) to Section 13(1)(d) of PC Act, Court has to give
finding that the act of public servants was without any public interest.
As already held that passport is a valuable thing and by their
respective acts public servants i.e. A1 to A3 had facilitated the
applicants and co-accused i.e. Anil Dhawan to obtain passport in
favour of fictitious persons, thus one of the conditions is satisfied. In
view of the above, I am of the view that the said judgment is also not
helpful to the accused in any manner. 100. Learned counsel appearing for the accused further
vehemently contended that acts of A1 are not covered by the
judgment Runu Ghosh v/s. CBI (supra), as before holding the
accused guilty, Court has to look into the circumstances in which A1
had worked. It was argued that since no facility was provided to PIA to
detect the fraud and there were frequent instructions from the Ministry
of External Affairs in the form of various circulars to issue additional
passport booklets on the same day or preferably within 3-5 days and
A1 was over burdened at the relevant time and the witnesses CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 128 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. particularly PW9 S.P.Kothari and PW38 Raj Singh admitted in their
cross-examination that the files put up before A1 were complete in all
respects and the fact that other PIAs in other similar matters also
acted similarly, thus it cannot be said that there was any fault on the
part of A1. (i) As already discussed that no training or scientific
instrument was required to detect the fraud, thus the first circumstance
is not sufficient to give any benefit of doubt to the accused. Similarly,
though there were instructions from the Ministry of External Affairs in
the form of various circulars as discussed above, but these circulars
never permitted the Passport Issuing Authority to act in violation of the
Rules and Regulations of Passport Act and Passport Rules. By way of
said circulars procedure was simplified to minimize the time in
issuance of additional passports. However, it was also directed to take
precaution to avoid any kind of fraud by directing the PIAs to consult
PISON as and when there is any doubt. Thus, the second reason is
also not helpful to the accused in any manner. As already discussed
that the over burdened cannot be a ground to justify a wilful wrongful
act or to act in the gross violation of rules and regulations. So far the
fact that in other matters the other PIAs who acted in similar manner
were not charge-sheeted by the CBI is not a ground to acquit the
accused in the present case as this Court is not supposed to give
finding on the basis of charge-sheets filed by the CBI in other cases.
Rather, the Court is bound to give finding on the basis of evidence
adduced in the instant case. (ii) As already stated that there is no substance in the plea CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 129 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. of parity taken by the accused qua Ms. Asia in file Ex. PW7/J and qua
Tej Ram in file Ex. PW3/Q. 101. No doubt, PW9 and PW38 in their cross-examination
admitted that the files put up before A1 were complete in all respect.
But here the question is not whether files were complete or not. The
real question is whether there was anything uncommon in the said
files which was sufficient for A1 to raise objection or to make further
inquiry. As already stated that answer is in affirmative. Since the pages
of previous passports had not been full; and the fact that the previous
passports had not cancelled either in terms of circular dated June 24,
1997 or November 25, 1997 and the fact that photographs and
signatures of the applicants in the original passports were in original
while it should be scanned copy. All these facts were more than
sufficient for A1 to detect the fraud or atleast to make further inquiry.
But he did not deem it appropriate even to raise any objection and
even did not ask from the counter clerk why he had not cancelled the
previous passports either in terms of circular dated June 24, 1997 or
November 25, 1997. (i) When a Court question was put to PW9 about the
facility, PW9 deposed that all facilities were provided by the
department. He further deposed that when a person sought additional
passport on the ground that pages of previous passport had been full,
in such matters, it is the duty of PIA to satisfy himself that the pages of
previous passport had been full. He further deposed that there is
nothing in the passport files, which may show that the pages of
previous passport had been full. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (ii) Similarly, PW38 to the Court question deposed that
PIA used to check each and every document enclosed in the file and
also used to check the original passport at the time of giving the
promise date to satisfy himself whether applicant is required additional
passport genuinely or not. To another court question, he deposed that
whenever any person would make an attempt to use same passport to
obtain second additional passport booklet, PIA would come to know
that the said previous passport had already been used to obtain the
additional passport booklet because there would be stamp of
cancellation in the said previous passport. Thus, from the deposition
of PW9 and PW38, it becomes clear that it was the duty of the PIA to
check the file thoroughly to ascertain whether the claim of applicants
was genuine or not. It means that it was the duty of PIA to check
whether the pages of previous passport had been full; whether
previous passport had been cancelled in terms of rules and
regulations and whether there is anything unusual in the passports
produced by the applicants; whether the original photograph and
signature were appearing in the passport in place of scanned copy. In
the light of the above said discussion, mere fact that PW9 and PW38
deposed that files in question were complete in all respect is not
sufficient to draw a conclusion that there was no lapse on the part of
A1. 102. Now coming to the next question whether RPO
officials including PIA acted in public interest or not? (i) If it is established that they acted in public interest, they
cannot be held liable for their acts, otherwise they shall be liable for CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 131 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. their acts. (ii) No doubt, issuance of additional passport booklets to the
previous passport holders is in public interest but issuance of
additional passport booklets in the name of fictitious persons cannot
be in public interest. Rather, it would be totally against public interest
as it may also cause threat to the security of the nation because such
fictitious identity proof documents can be mis-used by anti-national
elements. As already discussed that while dealing with the files in
question, A2 who was working as counter clerk at the relevant time did
not check the original passport to verify whether the pages of previous
passport had been full or not. He even did not cancel the original
passport either in terms of circular dated June 24, 1997 or November
25,1997. Even he did not raise any objection despite the fact that the
signature and photograph appearing on the passports, which were
produced for inspection, were in original though it should be a
scanned copy. Similarly, A1 who was working as PIA also did not
check the original passport to verify whether the pages of previous
passport had been full or not, on the basis of which, applicants sought
additional passport booklet from time to time. A1 also did not raise any
objection despite the fact that the previous passport was not cancelled
by the counter clerk either in terms of circular dated June 24, 1997 or
November 25, 1997. Similarly, he also did not raise any objection
despite the fact that the signature and photograph of the applicant
were appearing in original on the passports, which were allegedly
produced for inspection and cancellation, while the signature and
photograph should be a scanned copy on the passports. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (i) As already discussed that A3 who was working in HIT
Section also failed to point out that additional passport booklets had
been issued in the name of Mr. Harbans Lal Suri on the basis of
previous passport, copy of which was annexed along with
applications. Similarly, he also failed to point out the dissimilarities in
the photographs of the applicant while giving the HIT clearance on
May 27, 2004 and June 11, 2004 in respect of additional passport
booklet bearing No. E-8580773 and E-8914602. Thus, it becomes
clear that A1 and A2 did not take reasonable precaution at the time of
dealing with the files in question; rather they breached the settled
norms and instructions issued from time to time through various
circulars, thus their acts were not in public interest when they
facilitated the applicants in getting additional passport booklets in
fictitious names by clearing files without raising any objection. 103. From the aforesaid discussion, following facts have
been established beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts:- (a) That accused Harbhajan (A2) was
 working as counter clerk at the relevant time
 whereas Bibianus Toppo (A1) was working as
 Passport Issuing Authority being
 Superintendent. (b) That being the counter clerk, A2 had
 dealt with all six files relating to additional
 passport booklets wherein different persons
 requested for additional passport booklet in the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 133 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. name and personal particulars of Harbans Lal
 Suri, Neha Suri and Dashrath Suri. (c) That in all the said files the applicants
 had sought the additional passport booklets on
 the pretext that pages of previous passport had
 already been full and they required additional
 passport booklet to visit abroad urgently. (d) That along-with the application and
 request letter, the applicants had also enclosed
 the photocopy of few pages of previous
 passport. (e) That being the counter clerk, A2 and
 being the Passport Issuing Authority, A1 were
 duty bound to inspect the original passport to
 ensure themselves that the pages of previous
 passport had been full or not. (f) That from the original passport, it
 becomes clear that the pages of the original
 passport had not been full as alleged by the
 applicants in their request letters. This proves
 that neither A2 nor A1 had inspected the original
 passport at the time of dealing with the request
 of applicants. (g) That being the counter clerk, it was the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 134 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. duty of A2 to cancel the original passport either
 in terms of circular dated June 24, 1997 or
 November 25, 1997. But he failed to do so. Similarly, A1 being the PIA also did not raise any
 objection in this regard. (h) That being the counter clerk and PIA, it
 was the duty of A2 and A1 to go through the
 original passport carefully but they failed to do
 so. Had they gone through the original
 passports, they would have come to know that
 the applicants were playing fraud because the
 signature and photograph of the applicants on
 the said passport were in original while it should
 be a scanned copy. This itself was more than
 sufficient for A2 and A1 to raise suspicion over
 the claim of applicants but they failed to do so. (i) That despite the above inherent defects
 in the applications, A2 being the counter clerk
 made recommendation in favour of applicants
 for issuance of additional passport booklet and
 similarly, A1 being the PIA not only passed the
 promise date and grant order but he also issued
 the additional passport booklets in favour of the
 applicants. (j) That no scientific instrument or specific CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 135 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. training was required to detect the said
 deficiencies/inherent defects as the same could
 easily be ascertained with naked eyes by a
 person of having ordinary intelligence. Since, A1
 and A2 were working in RPO since long, they
 must have acquired some expertise to assess
 which portion of passport was required to be
 checked carefully at the time of dealing with
 such request from the applicants. But they
 preferred to ignore the said inherent defects
 without any reasonable explanation. (k) That it was the duty of A3 to check
 whether there is any objectionable point in the
 application or not. Despite that he failed to point
 out that additional passports had already been
 issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri on the
 basis of photocopy of previous passport, which
 had been annexed at the time of seeking
 additional passport booklet in the name of
 Harbans Lal Suri from time to time. He also
 failed to point out the dissimilarities in the
 photograph of Harbans Lal Suri in respect of two
 additional passport booklets in which he had
 given the HIT clearance on May 27, 2004 and
 June 11, 2004 despite the fact that at that time,
 there was a facility in his computer to compare
 the photograph of the applicant with the CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 136 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. photograph of the original passport holder. booklets, which is a valuable thing in fictitious
 names i.e. Harbans Lal Suri, Neha Suri and
 Dashrath Suri. (m) That the acts of A1 to A3 were not in
 the public interest and they acted without public
 interest while facilitating the applicants to get
 additional passport booklet in fictitious names. 104. Indisputably, there is no cogent evidence on record
to bring home the guilt of A1 to A3 for the offences described in clause (i) and (ii) of Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act as
prosecution failed to establish that A1 to A3 had any dishonest
intention while dealing with the files in question. But it can safely be
culled out that the adduced evidences are sufficient to hold that A1 to
A3 while holding public office obtained a valuable thing i.e. passport in
favour of the fictitious persons through A4, which was not in public
interest; rather it was without any public interest. Thus, to my mind, A1
to A3 are liable for the offence punishable under Section 13 (2) read
with Clause-(iii) of Section 13 (1)(d) of PC Act. (i) However, I am of the considered opinion that the
adduced evidences are not sufficient to bring home the guilt of A1 to
A3 for the offence punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 137 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 1967 as there is nothing on record to show that A1 to A3 had furnished
any false information as required under Passport Act , accordingly, I
hereby acquit them thereunder. (ii) In view of the above finding, I do not find any
substance in the contention of learned defence counsel that since in
the instant case two views are possible, A1 is entitled for acquittal. 105. Though a separate charge has been framed against
A1 for the offence punishable under Section 467 IPC on the ground
that he had signed the five passports in question which were issued in
the name of fictitious persons, but during trial CBI has failed to adduce
any evidence to prove that A1 had committed any forgery as defined
under Section 463 IPA and 464 IPC at the time of signing the said
booklets, thus I hereby acquit A1 from the charges of 467 IPC . Contentions relating to accused Dheeraj Bansal (A5):- 106. Learned Sr. Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
vigorously argued that A5 had got prepared a forged passport in
favour of Mr. Devender Singh s/o Dilip Singh in fictitious name of
Harbans Lal Suri on the basis of photograph, which he collected from
PW32 Ashok @ Bittoo to whom the same were given by Devender
Singh. It was further contended that thereafter, A5 had deposited the
passport at the British High Commission for obtaining visa in favour of
Devender Singh in the fictitious name of Harbans Lal Suri. It was
argued that when Devender Singh came to know about the same, he
did not turn up for interview before the British High Commission. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 107. Per contra, learned counsel appearing for A5 refuted
the said contentions by arguing that there is no iota of admissible
evidence on record that any such photo was ever given to A5 either by
Devernder Singh or by Ashok @ Bitto. It was argued that from the
statement of PW41 Devender Singh, PW37 Jasvinder Singh @
Pamma and PW32 Ashok Kumar @ Bittoo, it becomes clear that
PW32 was an agent and he had taken huge amount from PW41 for
arranging visa in his favour; but surprisingly he admitted in his
deposition that he had not given any money to A5. It was argued that
from the deposition of above said witnesses, it can safely be culled out
that PW32 was involved in the business of arranging visa illegally and
for that purpose he used to charge huge money from the gullible
persons as in this case, he had charged huge money from PW41. It
was contended that but surprisingly CBI has cited Ashok @ Bittoo as
a witness while impleaded Dhiraj Bansal as an accused in this case. It
was further contended that no reliance can be placed on the
deposition of PW32. It was further argued that though CBI has set up
a case that some incriminating documents were recovered during the
raid allegedly conducted at the premises of A5, but no reliance can be
placed on the said raid as it is admitted case of CBI that A5 was not
present at the time of said raid. Further, no document bearing the
signature of A5 was found in the said raid. Moreover, as per the
testimony of PW42, the documents were recovered from a car, which
was found parked in the society premises where the house of A5 is
located. But during investigation, CBI even failed to connect the said
car with A5. Even it is not established that the key of the said car was
provided by the family members of A5. Accordingly, it was argued that
no reliance can be placed on the documents which were allegedly CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 139 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. shown to have been recovered from the house of A5. Findings qua Dheeraj Bansal (A6):- 108. Perusal of the chargesheet reveals that the
allegations against A5 are that A5 had collected 12 passport size
photographs of Devender Singh through Ashok @ Bittoo (PW32). It
was further alleged that Devender Singh had given his original
passport bearing No. B-5677702 (Ex. PW32/A) issued from RPO,
Jhalandhar to A5 for arranging visa for him for UK but A5 arranged
additional passport booklet by using the said photographs in the name
of Harbans Lal Suri and submitted the additional passport booklet in
the office of British High Commission, New Delhi for visa. 109. In the light of above, first question emerges whether
Devender Singh (PW41) had handed over any such photograph or
passport to A5 or not? In this regard, the testimony of PW32, PW37
and PW41 are relevant. (i). PW41 in his examination-in-chief deposed that he had
a passport issued from RPO, Jhalandhar but he had never travelled
on the said passport. He further testified that he asked Bittoo to make
arrangement to send him to England, accordingly Bittoo i.e. PW32
asked ` 9 lac from him. He further deposed that since his friend
Nishan Singh also intended to go to England, Bittoo demanded ` 9
lac from him also. He further testified that he and Nishan Singh had
given amount between ` 2 lac to ` 2.50 lac each to Bittoo. It means
that PW41 alongwith Nishan Singh had given huge amount between CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 140 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. ` 4 lac to ` 5 lac to PW32. He further deposed that he had also given
his passport and eight photographs to Bittoo. He further deposed that
Bittoo told him that visa could not be arranged for him as he was a
Sikh, however told him that visa had been arranged for Nishan Singh. (ii). From the testimony of PW41, it becomes clear that
PW41 along with Nishan Singh had given huge amount between ` 4
lac to ` 5 lac to PW32 for making arrangement to send them to
England. Further it also becomes clear that PW41 had given his eight
photographs and one passport to PW32. (iii). In his deposition, he further testified that he can
identify the photograph which he had given to Bittoo. However, when
the photograph appearing on the passport Ex. PW3/M (additional
passport booklet bearing No. E-8914602), Passport Ex. PW13/D1
(original passport bearing No. B-1792351) and the passport file Ex.
PW3/L shown to the witness, he deposed that he had not given the
said photographs to Bittoo. Since, PW41 was not supporting the
prosecution case on the point of photographs and on other points, he
was got turned hostile and cross-examined at length by learned
Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI. But during his cross-
examination, nothing could be extracted which may help the CBI to
prove the guilt of A5. Infact in his entire testimony, he had not uttered
even a single word against A5. On the contrary, from the testimony of
PW41, it becomes clear that the photographs of Devender Singh,
which were used for obtaining additional passport booklet, were not
given by him either to PW32 or A5. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. (iv). PW 37 Jasvinder Singh @ Pamma is the person at
whose dhaba Devender Singh (PW41) met with Bittoo (PW32). In his
examination-in-chief, he deposed that talk had taken place between
Devender Singh and Ashok Kumar @ Bittoo and further deposed that
PW41 Devender Singh agreed to pay a sum of ` 9 lac to PW32 Ashok
Kumar @ Bittoo. However, he deposed that he did not know whether
the said amount was actually given to PW32 or not. He also did not
utter even a single word against A5. Though the witness was cross-
examined at length by learned Public Prosecutor but nothing could be
extracted during his cross-examination which may help CBI to prove
the guilt of A5. 110. Now coming to the testimony of PW32 Ashok Kumar
@ Bittoo. (i). He deposed that Sanjeev Kumar is his relative who
introduced him to Dhiraj Bansal and initially he talked with him on
phone, thereafter, he visited him at his residence located at Rohini. He
came to know that Dhiraj Bansal (A5) was having work of arranging
visa for persons who wanted to travel abroad and he used to charge
between ` 4 to ` 5 lac for arranging visa. He further testified that
thereafter, he asked Pamma (PW37) to tell him if any person is
interested to travel abroad and wanted visa support for that purpose.
Accordingly, Pamma (PW37) told him the name of Pinka (PW41), who
wanted to travel abroad. He further testified that thereafter, Pinka also
brought his friend Nishan Singh as he also wanted to travel abroad.
He further deposed that A5 asked him to provide the documents
relating to the said persons so that he could arrange visa for them. He CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 142 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. further testified that A5 asked him to provide their passport, bank
account statement, ration card and property documents. He further
testified that accordingly, he provided passport and 2-3 photographs of
Pinka (PW41) and Nishan Singh to A5 for arranging visa. He further
testified that after about one month, A5 informed him on phone that
the work of Nishan Singh had been done. He further deposed that
since they had not paid any money to A5, question of taking refund
from A5 does not arise. He further testified that the passport Ex.
PW32/A issued from RPO Jhalandhar in the name of Devender Singh
is the same passport which he had handed over to A5. However, he
deposed that photograph affixed on the passport Ex. PW13/D1 and
PW3/M are not the photographs, which were given to Dhiraj Bansal
and testified that he had not given the said photographs to Dhiraj
Bansal (A5). He further deposed that though A5 had made a demand
of ` 5.50 lac but no money was paid to him. Since, he was not
supporting the case, he was got turned hostile and cross-examined at
length by learned Public Prosecutor at length. However, during his
cross-examination, nothing could be extracted which may help the
prosecution in any manner to prove the guilt of A5. In his cross-
examination, he reiterated the fact that though he had given the
photograph to A5 but the photograph affixed on the passport Ex.
PW3/M and PW13/D1 are not the photographs, which he handed over
to A5. 111. From the combined reading of the statement of
PW32, PW37 and PW41, it becomes clear that photographs affixed on
the passport Ex. PW3/M and PW13/D1 and the photograph used in
the passport file Ex. PW3/L are not the photographs which were given CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 143 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. by PW41 to PW32. It becomes further clear that though PW41 along
with Nishan Singh had given ` 4 to ` 5 lac to PW32 for the purpose
of arranging visa but PW32 had not given any amount to A5. It further
becomes clear that PW32 never told to PW41 and PW37 that he
would arrange visa through A5. Since, PW32 had charged huge
amount for arranging visa in favour of PW41 and Nishan Singh, it
suggests that he had charged the said amount to arrange visa by
doing some unlawful and illegal acts otherwise there was no occasion
for him to charge such huge amount from them. No doubt, PW32
deposed that A5 had demanded ` 5.50 lac for arranging visa but it is
admitted case of PW32 that he had not paid any amount. On the
contrary, from the deposition of PW41, it becomes clear that PW32
had charged a sum of ` 9 lac from each of them. Thus, it can safely
be culled out that either PW32 was indulging in arranging visa by
unlawful means or he was an agent of Dhiraj Bansal (A5). If, it was so,
it means he was also in conspiracy with Dhiraj Bansal. But it is not
clear on what basis CBI had exonerated PW32 and cited him as a
witness. However, the testimony of PW32, PW37 and PW41 are not
sufficient in any manner to establish that Dhiraj Bansal had used the
said photographs either for obtaining the additional passport booklet
Ex. PW3/M or he arranged the visa for PW41. 112. Next allegation against A5 is that he had deposited
the additional passport booklet at the office of British High
Commission, New Delhi for obtaining visa in favour of PW41 in the
fictitious name of Harbans Lal Suri. But during trial, CBI failed to
adduce any evidence to prove the said allegation. Though CBI had
examined as many as 46 witnesses, yet none has uttered even a CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 144 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. single word about the same. Accordingly, I am of the view that CBI
miserably failed to establish that A5 had deposited the above said
passport booklet in the office of British High Commission for obtaining
visa for PW41 in the fictitious name of Harbans Lal Suri. 113. Now coming to the contention relating to alleged
search. (i). Though as per the testimony of PW42 a search was
conducted at the premises of A5 on October 15, 2004, but during the
course of arguments learned Sr. Public Prosecutor appearing for CBI
failed to point out any document allegedly recovered during the said
search which may help CBI to prove the guilt of A5 in the present
matter. Even in the chargesheet no reliance has been placed on any
such document. In these circumstances, no purpose would be
achieved to discuss the validity or legality of the said search. 114. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that there is no iota of admissible evidence against
accused Dhiraj Bansal (A5), accordingly, I am of the view that CBI has
miserably failed to bring home the guilt of A5. Thus, I hereby acquit
him from all the charges. Contentions and finding qua accused Amit Kumar Khatri
(A7):- 115. Shri Prabhat Kumar learned Senior Public
Prosecutor for CBI contended that the role attributed to A7 is that he
accompanied Mr. Suraj and his daughter Kristina who travelled CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 145 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Frankfurt on the fictitious passport issued in the name of Harbans Lal
Suri and Neha Suri. It was further alleged that after leaving them in
Frankfurt, accused took the passport from Suraj @ Harbans Lal Suri
and Kristina @ Neha and came to Delhi and handed over the same to
his co-accused Hemant Gandhi. It was alleged that thereafter Hemant
Gandhi used the said passports in obtaining additional passport
booklets in the name of fictitious persons. 116. Per contra, learned defence counsel for the accused
refuted the said contentions by arguing sagaciously that there is no
admissible evidence on record to prove the fact that accused Amit
Khatri had taken over the passports from the alleged Suraj and
Kristina or he handed over the same to Hemant Gandhi. It was further
submitted that PW5, who got prepared the additional passport booklet
in favour of Kristina @ Neha Suri deposed that he did not know any
person by the name of Amit Kumar Khatri. 117. PW5 Pradeep Jain is the person who helped Neha
Suri @ Kristina in getting additional passport booklet. Though
prosecution has set up a case that Amit Kumar Khatri had helped
Kristina in getting the passport in the fictitious name of Neha Suri, but
PW5 did not support the prosecution case by deposing that he did not
know any person by the name of Amit Kumar Khatri. Though he
deposed that Kristina was accompanied with a person to whom he
knew as Sirji, but in his cross-examination, he clarified that the said
Sirji was not present in the Court. In other word, PW5 failed to identify
the accused Amit Kumar Khatri. Except the testimony of PW5, there is
no other witness who may prove that A7 had helped Kristina in getting CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 146 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. the passport in the name of Neha Suri. 118. The next allegation against accused Amit Kumar
Khatri is that he not only accompanied with Suraj and Kristina who
travelled on fictitious passport issued in the name of Harbans Lal Suri
and Neha Suri respectively but he also took the custody of their
passport from them at Frankfurt and thereafter returned to Delhi and
handed over the same to his co-accused Hemant Gandhi, who further
used the said passports in getting additional passport booklets in
favour of fictitious persons. In this regard, the testimony of PW30 and
PW31 are relevant. 119. From the testimony of PW30 and PW31, it can
safely be culled out that accused Amit Kumar Khatri had travelled to
Frankfurt on February 28, 2004 on the basis of passport bearing No.
B-3778086 and departure embarkation card bearing No.
103/0652321. It can also safely be culled out that he travelled through
Flight No. K-U382 of Kuwait Airways. From the testimony of PW31, it
can also safely be called out that on the said flight, Harbans Lal Suri
and Neha Suri also travelled. But except that there is no other
evidence on record to establish that A7 had taken the custody of
passport of Kristina and Suraj or he handed over the same to his co-
accused Hemant Gandhi. Mere fact that A7 travelled in the same flight
in which Suraj and Kristina travelled in the fictitious name of Harbans
Lal Suri and Neha Suri respectively is not sufficient to prove that A7
had any connection either with them or he had taken the custody of
their passport at Frankfurt or handed over the same to his co-accused
Hemant Gandhi. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 120. It is admitted case of CBI that in another matter i.e.
CC No. 74/08, PW42 had recorded the disclosure statement of
accused Hemant Gandhi, certified copy of which is exhibited in this
case as Ex.PW42/G. Even in his disclosure statement, Hemant
Gandhi nowhere alleged that he had sent A7 to Frankfurt along with
Kristina and Suraj or that A7 had taken the custody of their passports
at Frankfurt or that A7 had handed over said passports to him. In
these circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that in the
absence of any cogent evidence on record, the testimony of PW30
and PW31 is not helpful to the prosecution to prove the guilt of A7 in
any manner. 121. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that CBI has failed to prove the guilt of accused A7
miserably, accordingly, I hereby acquit him from all the charges. CONCLUSION:- 122. Pondering over the ongoing discussion, I am of the
considered opinion that:- (i) Prosecution has succeeded to
 bring home the guilt of accused Anil
 Dhawan (A4) for the offence punishable
 under Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC and
 under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act,
 1967 beyond of shadow of all reasonable
 doubts, accordingly, I hereby hold him CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 148 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. guilty thereunder. (ii) Prosecution has also
 succeeded to bring home the guilt of
 accused Bibianus Toppo (A1), Harbhajan
 Yadav (A2) and Ram Chander (A3) for the
 offence punishable under Section 13 (2) read with Section 13 (1) (d) (iii) of
 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988
 beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts,
 accordingly, I hereby hold them guilty
 thereunder. 123. However, prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt
of accused persons namely Dhiraj Bansal (A5) and Amit Kumar
Khatri (A7) beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts, accordingly,
I hereby acquit them from all the charges. Announced in the open Court
on this 21st day of July, 2016 (PAWAN KUMAR JAIN)
 Special Judge-01, CBI, North West
 Rohini Courts, Delhi/sv CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 149 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. IN THE COURT OF SH. PAWAN KUMAR JAIN,
 SPECIAL JUDGE, CBI-01, NORTH-WEST DISTRICT,
 ROHINI COURTS COMPLEX, DELHI

IN THE MATTER OF: FIR No. : RC-4(A)/2005/SCU-V/CBI/SCR-II,
 New Delhi

 U/Sec: 120B r/w 419/420/468/471 IPC 13(2) r/w 13(1)(d) of PC Act 1988
 12(1) (b) of Passport Act 1967

 Police Station: CBI/SCR-II/New Delhi

STATE
THROUGH
CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,
NEW DELHI

 VERSUS CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 150 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 1. Bibianus Toppo
 S/o Late Joseph Toppo, R/o H. No. 770, Block No. 11 Baba Kharak Singh Marg,
 New Delhi-110001. 2. Harbhajan Yadav
 S/o Late Sultan Singh Yadav,
 R/o H. No. 949/1, Gali No. 4,
 Ashok Vihar, Gurgaon,
 Haryana. 3. Ram Chander
 S/o Sh. Maman Ram,
 R/o J-624, Sardar Colony,
 Sector 16, Rohini, Delhi-85. 4. Anil Dhawan
 S/o Sh. Madan Lal Dhawan,
 R/o 254, DDA Flats, 1st Floor,
 New Ranjit Nagar,
 New Delhi-8. Appearance :Sh. Prabhat Kumar, learned Sr. Public
 Prosecutor for CBI
 Sh. R. Ramachandran, Advocate, counsel for
 Bibianus Toppo (C1)
 Sh. Sukhwinder Singh, Advocate, counsel for CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 151 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Harbhajan Yadav (C2) and Ram Chander (C3)
 Sh. Lalit Yadav, Advocate, counsel for Anil
 Dhawan (C4)

ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE :- (i) Convict Anil Dhawan (C4) has also been held guilty
for the offence punishable under Section 419 / 420 / 468 / 471 IPC and
under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, 1967. 2. Learned counsels appearing for the convicts request for
a lenient view on the grounds that they are law abiding citizens and
they are sole bread earners of their respective families. They have
also been suffering from agony of trial for the last more than eight
years. (i) Besides that counsel appearing for convict Ram
Chander submits that convict is a 55 years old man and there is no
probability of repeating similar offence by him. (ii) Similarly, counsel appearing for convict Harbhajan CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 152 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. Yadav requests for a lenient view on the ground that convict
Harbhajan Yadav is not involved in any other case except passport
scam cases and further states that during last 8 years, convict has not
been found indulged in any other criminal matter, which shows that
convict has reformed himself. (iii) Learned counsel appearing for convict Bibianus Toppo
submits that there is no evidence on record that convict had taken any
illegal gratification or any monetary benefit. It is further submitted that
convict is aged about 66 years and suffering from various ailments.
Convict has only one son, but he is still unemployed, thus convict is
the sole bread earner of his family. (iv) Counsel appearing for convict Anil Dhawan also
requests for a lenient view on the ground that convict has been
appearing regularly in the Court and there is nothing on record which
may suggest that he had committed any other offence after filing the
charge-sheets in passport scam cases. It is further submitted that both
the kidneys of his father had already been failed, thus he is on regular
dialysis for the last three years. It is further submitted that convict is
sole bread earner of his family comprising of his old parents and two
small school going kids besides his wife. 3. Per contra, counsel appearing for CBI refuted the said
contentions by vehemently arguing that the convicts are involved in
numerous passport scam cases and due to their acts, passports in the
form of additional passport booklets had been issued in favour of
fictitious persons. It is further argued that since passport is an CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 153 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. important document to prove identity and nationality, such passports
could be misused by anti-national elements. It is further submitted that
all convicts had also been convicted in other matters such as CC No.
74/2008, CC No. 56/08, CC No. 11/12, CC No. 5/12, CC No. 76/08,
CC No. 24/09 , CC No. 7/12 and CC No. 6/12, accordingly, prayer is
made for maximum punishment. 4. I have heard rival submissions made by counsel for both
the parties, perused the record carefully and gave my thoughtful
consideration to their contentions. 5. In view of the aggravating and mitigating factors as
highlighted by counsel for both the parties and the fact that
prosecution not only failed to establish the charge of conspiracy with
the public servants but also failed to prove that public servants had
obtained any pecuniary advantage or valuable thing for themselves, I
am of the considered opinion that it is not a fit case to impose
maximum sentence as prayed by learned Sr. Public Prosecutor for
CBI. Simultaneously, in view of the aggravating factors as pointed out
by the counsel for CBI, I am also of the opinion that it is also not a fit
case to take extreme lenient view as prayed by counsel for the
convicts. 6. In view of the aforesaid discussion, I hereby sentence
the convict no. 1 to 3 i.e. Bibianus Toppo (C1), Harbhajan Yadav
(C2) and Ram Chander (C3) rigorous imprisonment for a period of
one year and a fine of ` 20,000/- each in default further simple
imprisonment for a period of six months for the offence punishable CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 154 of 156 State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1) (d) (iii) of Prevention of
Corruption Act. 7. I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of three years and a fine of ` 20,000/- in
default further simple imprisonment for a period of nine months for
the offence punishable under Section 420 IPC. (i) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of two years and a fine of ` 10,000/- in
default further simple imprisonment for a period of six months for the
offence punishable under Section 419 IPC. (ii) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of three years and a fine of ` 20,000/- in
default further simple imprisonment for a period of nine months for
the offence punishable under Section 468 IPC. (iii) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of two years and a fine of ` 10,000/- in
default further simple imprisonment for a period of three months for
the offence punishable under Section 471 IPC. (iv) I also sentence convict no.4 Anil Dhawan rigorous
imprisonment for a period of one year and a fine of ` 5,000/- in default
further simple imprisonment for a period of three months for the
offence punishable under Section 12 (1) (b) of Passport Act, 1967. State through CBI v. Bibianus Toppo & Ors. 8. Benefit of Section 428 Cr. P.C, if any, be given to the
convicts. All sentences shall run concurrently. 9. Copy of judgment along with order on the point of
sentence be given to the convicts/their counsels free of cost. 10. File be consigned to record room. Announced in the open Court
on this 1st day of August, 2016 (PAWAN KUMAR JAIN)
 Special Judge-01, CBI, North West
 Rohini Courts, Delhi/sv CBI No. 51/2016 (old No. 10/12) Page 156 of 156