SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Online Card Scammer's Call Recording.
DATE: 2015-06-16
SCORE: 214
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/3a1qgd/online_card_scammers_call_recording/

--- POST TEXT ---

These Online card scammers called my father few days back and some how managed to take his debit card details over the call. My father only came to know that he has been fooled, once he started receiving sms containing One time password on his phone. We were able to his card blocked before the calller could misuse it.

Surprisingly, 15 days later I Got a call from same Debit card verification team, I did not have call recording on my phone so i asked him to call on my other number, the stupid did call me and i recorded the whole conversation.

(They are so smart/aware that they some how manage to get their number shown as "RBI Verification Department" on TrueCaller.)

I told him in mid call, that i got confused, i don't have axis card, i only have hdfc he said no problem i will verify axis, we have association with all the banks.

I took one expired hdfc credit card and to be on safer side, i changed few digits and read out complete card details to him over call, Asshole thought that i was giving him actual card details. Once he had all card details including the CVC ( fake) he suddenly changed his tone and started threatening "ab dekh main yahin se transaction karta hu , teri MC# BC# and banged the call "

I have been spreading the recording on WhatsApp to my friends and requesting them to make their parents and old ones at their home listen to it so that they can identify these scammers in future.

I am very familiar with how how policing in delhi works especially when it comes to crimes like this. Believe me, if you lost 10,20 or even 50,000 to scamster like these, no one is going to entertain you, and even if they register the FIR it will take years to collect evidence or to even find the culprits.

I though it will be good to spread awareness and make people understand how this scam works.

Listen to recording here https://soundcloud.com/oldmonq/debit-card-fraud