(DSSSB) & Ors. With

 Civil Appeal Nos 643-644 of 2021
 @ SLP (C) Nos. 5783-5784 of 2020

 With
 Civil Appeal Nos 641-642 of 2021
 @SLP (C) Nos. 5370-5371 of 2020

 With
 Civil Appeal Nos 645-646 of 2021
 @SLP (C) Nos. 8811-8812 of 2020

 With Signature Not Verified Digitally signed by Civil Appeal Nos 649-650 of 2021 @SLP (C) Nos. 11443-11444 of 2020 Sanjay Kumar Date: 2021.03.03 16:11:38 IST Reason: 1 With

 Civil Appeal Nos 647-648 of 2021
@SLP (C) Nos. 11441-11442 of 2020

 With

 Civil Appeal No 651 of 2021 @ SLP (C) No. 11940 of 2020 With

 Civil Appeal Nos 653-654 of 2021
@ SLP (C) Nos. 12410-12411 of 2020

 With

 Civil Appeal Nos 652 of 2021 @SLP (C) No. 12066 of 2020 With

 Civil Appeal Nos 655-656 of 2021
@SLP (C) Nos. 15297-15298 of 2020

 With

 Civil Appeal Nos 657-658 of 2021
@SLP (C) Nos. 15299-15300 of 2020

 And With

 Civil Appeal Nos 659-660 of 2021
 @SLP (C) Nos. 110-111 of 2021 2 JUDGMENT

Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J

This judgment has been divided into the following sections: constitutional values which undergird Articles 14 and 16 mandate that selection

processes conducted by public authorities to make recruitments have to be fair,

transparent and accountable. All too often, human fallibility and foibles intrude into

the selection processes. Selection involves intense competition and there is no

dearth of individuals who try and bend the rules to gain an unfair leap in the race.

Irregularities in the process give rise to misgivings over whether the process has

denied equal access to all persons. The sanctity of the selection process comes

under a cloud. The detection of individual wrongdoing by candidates may result in

action being taken to exclude those whose credentials or performance is tainted. But

when the entire process is tainted, the authority in charge of conducting it may

decide to cancel the selection as a whole. Judicial review is then invoked to

challenge the decision to cancel the entire process. The guiding principles have

evolved over the past five decades as new challenges emerged and novel attempts

to suborn the legitimacy of recruitment processes have come to the fore. The Delhi

High Court in the present case upheld the view of the Central Administrative

Tribunal (“Tribunal”) that the cancellation of the entire process was invalid but it

confined the relief to six candidates who had moved the proceedings before the

Tribunal in the first instance. Like other cases of its genre, this batch of appeals calls

the court to balance two competing considerations : the need to preserve public 4 PART A

confidence in and the sanctity of selection to public posts and the requirement of

observing fairness to candidates who invest time and resources in attempting to

clear through a selection. Both these considerations have a constitutional foundation

going beyond service and administrative law principles. The issue has travelled to

the court for resolution and the path ahead requires us to revisit and evolve the law

on the subject. 3 This batch of twelve appeals arises from a judgment of a Division Bench of

the High Court of Delhi dated 13 January 2020. Two petitions under Article 226 of

the Constitution were instituted by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board

(“DSSSB”) in order to question the legality of the orders of the Tribunal dated 1

February 2017 and 27 February 2017. The Tribunal annulled the decision of the

Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (“GNCTD”) to cancel the

recruitment process conducted for appointments to the post of Head Clerk [(Grade 2) (DASS)] in the GNCTD. As a consequence, the Tribunal directed the DSSSB to

conclude the selection process for which the Tier-I and Tier-II examinations had

been conducted. The proceedings before the Tribunal in two OAs 1 were instituted by

a total of six applicants, three in each of the OAs. The Tribunal’s decision entails that

the benefit of its order setting aside the recruitment process would enure not only to

the six applicants who had moved it but to others as well though they had not

challenged the cancellation of the recruitment process. The High Court by its

judgment held that 1 OA No. 3941 of 2015 and OA No.1578 of 2016 5 PART A (i) The orders of the Tribunal dated 1 February 2017 and 27 February 2017

 setting aside the cancellation of the recruitment process were in accord

 with the legal position; (ii) The relief would stand confined to the six applicants who had moved the

 Tribunal; and (iii) Each of the six applicants, who were Respondents before the High Court

 would need to take the Tier-II examination afresh within a stipulated period

 and the appointment process would be taken to its logical conclusion for

 them. 4 The batch of SLPs which arises from the judgment of the High Court can, for

convenience of exposition, be bifurcated into three categories : 5 Category (iii) noted above consists in turn of the following : 6 Having set out the broad contours of the path which the litigation has

followed, it is necessary now to turn to the specifics. for various posts among them being the post of [(Grade 2 (DASS)]/Head Clerk (post

code 90/09) for a total of 231 vacancies in Services Department – II, GNCTD.

62,056 applications were received, and 61,179 were found eligible. The scheme of

the examination comprised of : 2 Advertisement No.004/2009 7 8 The Tier-I examination was conducted by DSSSB on 29 June 2014. 8,224

candidates appeared at the Tier-I examination. Notably 4,712 candidates

(approximately 55 per cent) were drawn from 22 pin codes of Delhi as against a total

of 609 pin codes. 9 Between 14 October 2014 and 27 March 2015, complaints were received by

the DSSSB as to serious irregularities in the conduct of Tier-I examination alleging: 2,415 candidates were shortlisted. The Tier-II examination was conducted on 29

March 2015 and its results were declared on 15 July 2015. 8 PART B

First Committee

11 Between 30 July 2015 and 1 February 2016, several complaints were

received in regard to alleged irregularities in the conduct of both the Tier-I and Tier-II

examinations. The Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi constituted a committee on 22

August 2015 consisting of the Director (Vigilance) and District Magistrate (East) to

enquire into the complaints regarding irregularities in the conduct of the Tier-I and

Tier-II examinations. The Committee, in its report dated 10 September 2015 and 18

September 2015, arrived at the prima facie conclusion that there were serious

irregularities, including cheating and impersonation both in the course of the Tier-I

screening examination and Tier-II main examination. The Committee opined that the

examination should have been cancelled at the stage of declaring the Tier-I result

and the matter should be referred to the Economic Offences Wing / Crime Branch of

Delhi Police for a thorough investigation. The salient findings of the Committee are

extracted below: power] is required. The thorough investigation will require
 approaching doubtful candidates, their interrogation, trapping
 of culprits, linking various clues etc. Only CBI or Crime branch
 can deal with this [these] kind of cases as they have proper
 manpower, investigation techniques, police powers for
 investigation and enormous experience in cracking such
 cases.”

Based on the preliminary findings of the first Committee, a questionnaire was

prepared by the Directorate of Vigilance and was addressed to the Chairperson of

DSSSB on 24 September 2015 for his comments. The questions which were posed

included the following: mail/online? 10 PART B (iv) Was there a randomization of roll numbers of candidates
 for the Tier-I and Tier-II exams and if not, what were the
 reasons for the same? Who were the officers/officials
 responsible for the failure to conduct randomization? (v) What are the names and designations of officers
 responsible for allocation of exam centres to candidates and
 for deployment of Chief Invigilators, Observers and Assistant
 Observers at such exam centres? The names of the offices
 involved in the process of finalising the papers. What was the
 procedure /policy for setting papers and who was the
 competent authority for that purpose? (vi) What is the procedure/policy for selecting printing process
 for printing the question papers? What are the names of the
 officers involved in its supervision'? (vii) What is the procedure for getting printed papers in 'the
 premises and in whose custody they remained? (viii) What is the action taken by the DSSSB on the
 complaints in relation to the conduct of Tier-I exam, on the
 allegations of impersonation, cheating and leakage of exam
 papers prior to conducting the Tier-II exam? What action was
 taken against the specific officials who were named in
 complaints? (ix) Whether there was any mal-functioning of the jammer and
 videography at the Shakarpur Exam Centre and what action
 was taken by the DSSSB against such officials?”

12 On 1 October 2015, DSSSB provided its comments stating that (i) No record was available to explain why the examination for which an

 advertisement was issued in 2009 was not conducted until 2014. By 2013

 over 25,000 vacancies had to be filled and DSSSB has been conducting

 regular examinations to clear the backlog; 11 PART B (ii) On 1 June 2013, a meeting was convened by DSSSB to discuss sending

 physical admit cards by post. Following the example of UPSC and the

 Railway Board, a decision was taken to issue e-admit cards which could

 be downloaded by candidates from anywhere and wide publicity was given

 of the procedure in the newspaper apart from the DSSSB website. The

 recourse to e-admit cards was taken because of the considerable delay

 since the issuance of the advertisement in 2009, having regard to the fact

 that there could be changes of addresses, postal delays and difficulties in

 issuing duplicate cards in the event of loss or damage; (iii) For the Tier-II examination, randomisation was done. Before 28 June

 2015, no software was available for randomisation. However, by way of

 abundant precaution, in view of the complaints which had been received, a

 manual reshuffling of the sitting arrangements for candidates fetching the

 highest marks was done so as to ensure the maintenance of adequate

 distance. The roll numbers of candidates against whom some complaints

 were received were highlighted in the sitting plan for all invigilators.

 Moreover, the question papers were printed in four series as a result of

 which candidates sitting in proximity would not necessarily have the same

 question paper. There was, in any event, a natural randomization on

 account of absentees and failed candidates; (iv) There was no substance in the allegation of impersonation since

 invigilators at the examination centres were required to determine the 12 PART B

 identity of each candidate on the basis of details, photographs in the

 attendance sheet and admit card of each candidate; (v) There was no mal-functioning of the jammers and videography; and (vi) DSSSB did not carry out any scrutiny of the eligibility of candidates at the

 initial stage and this was done only for candidates who were able to finally

 get through the selection procedure. 13 The response to the questionnaire was placed before the first Committee

which submitted a detailed report dated 12 October 2015. The principal findings in

the report of the Committee were: I examination after the issuance of the advertisement; (ii) The advertisement did not stipulate that admit cards would be issued in

 the electronic form. Failure to send admit cards through speed post to

 each of the applicants resulted in a sharp decline in the number of

 candidates who appeared for the Tier-I examination; (iii) DSSSB had either not commented upon or had given vague responses to

 the allegations of serious irregularities. This included instance of

 candidates who had scored above 150 marks out of a total of 200 marks in

 the Tier-I examination but received few marks in the Tier-II objective

 paper. 13 PART B (iv) If randomisation had indeed taken place in the Tier-II examination, this did

 not explain how members of the same family or close relatives sat in the

 same examination room; (v) The allegations of complaints regarding impersonation and the connivance

 of middle-men and government staff together with the candidates

 appeared to be correct. For 12 candidates, the prima facie findings of

 impersonation on account of the failure of their signatures on the admit

 cards to match the signatures in the attendance sheets appeared to be

 correct; and (vi) By allowing candidates to appear without a scrutiny of qualifications,

 DSSSB had failed to carry out a proper scrutiny, thereby allowing unfit

 candidates to obtain undue benefits. 14 On 19 October 2015, the Secretary (Vigilance) submitted his opinion pointing

out the irregularities which were committed by DSSSB in the conduct of the

examination. The relevant extract from the opinion reads as follows: 65. Keeping in view the above irregularities, prima-facie, the
 entire process for recruitment for the post of Grade-II(DASS)
 appears to be vitiated. Hon'ble Dy. Chief Minister may take a
 view in the matter.”

15 The report of the Committee was placed by the Secretary (Vigilance) before

the Deputy Chief Minister on 19 October 2015 following which on 20 October 2015

comments were called from the DSSSB. By its letter dated 9 November 2015,

DSSSB informed the office of the Deputy Chief Minister that consequent to a special

Board meeting on 5 November 2015, a summary of comments was approved,

reading thus: After his candidature was rejected by the Board, he appeared
for Tier- II exam through a court order, the matter is sub
judice. (viii) The Board had already decided to verify the hand
writing, signatures and thumb impression of all the candidates
in the consideration zone and had completed the proceedings
for 12 candidates against whom specific complaint was
received.” 16 PART B

Consequent on the above exercise, the Deputy Chief Minister issued the following

order on 23/28 December 2015: 16 On 14 January 2016, a committee consisting of four members was

constituted by DSSSB “to check the credentials of all the candidates falling in the

zone of consideration in the merit list, for Gr.II/DASS (post code 90/09) for checking

of the candidate and the authenticity of his/her candidature”.

17 Between 1 February and 12 February 2016 and on 26 February 2016, a team

of DSSSB officers along with officers of the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) and

Department of Vigilance (DoV) carried out the process of verification in order to 17 PART B

check impersonation of 290 candidates falling in the zone of consideration. An

agency dealing with the biometric identification was also involved in the process for

checking the thumb-impressions of the candidates. The process of verification

involved: Attendance Sheet of Tier I and Tier II. 8 Significant numbers of candidates were found already
 working in various Govt. departments like Delhi Police Central
 Govt. ministries MCD etc.”

18 Before the Department could conclude its on-going verification process, FIR

05/2016 dated 18 January 2016 was registered at PS- Anti Corruption Branch, Delhi

under Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 read with Section 19 PART B

120B of the Indian Penal Code . A team of ACB officers seized the original file on 19

February 2016. Certified copies of the dossiers comprising of application forms,

OMR sheets of Tier-I and Tier-II, attendance sheets of Tier-I and Tier-II in respect of

290 candidates under consideration were subsequently seized on 26 February

2016. The report of the second Committee was placed before the Deputy Chief

Minister. In his note dated 2 March 2016, the Deputy Chief Minister recorded thus: PART C

 photograph of a candidate not available in the application
 form and police records of two candidates in similar cases.

 78 It is pertinent to note that verification has been carried
 out only in respect of candidates who are in the zone of
 consideration and the report of Directorate of Vigilance and
 DSSSB clearly indicate that the examination process has
 been vitiated. There are far serious complaints about the
 conduct of Tier I examination for the same post code. 79 The Government has zero tolerance towards
 corruption and officials who may join Government through
 improper examination are just not acceptable. Therefore it is
 recommended to cancel the examination conducted by
 DSSSB for the post code 90/09 and hold the examination
 afresh. In the interest of justice all the affected candidates
 who are found eligible to take part in the above examination
 may be provided suitable age relaxation for the new
 examination. 80 May like to approve.”

19 Following the recommendation of the Deputy Chief Minister, a notification was

issued on 15 March 2016 for the cancellation of the selection process. aggrieved by the failure of DSSSB and GNCTD to act on their representation dated

3 September, 2015. In their representation, these candidates had contended that

allegations as to irregularities were made by unsuccessful candidates hoping to get

another chance to write the examination. OA 1587/2016 was filed by three other 21 PART C

candidates subsequent to the issuance of the order of cancellation of the recruitment

process dated 15 March 2016. 21 The Tribunal by its decision dated 1 February 2017, allowed OA 3941/2015.

The principal findings of the Tribunal were thus: 22 On the above premises, the Tribunal observed that the second Committee

had examined the details of candidates who were likely to figure in the merit list and

found that 281 candidates “were free from blame”. The status report by the ACB

showed that the investigation was confined to only such candidates whose conduct

was found to be suspect by the second Committee. 281 candidates did not form a

part of the ACB investigation and cancelling their candidature would be arbitrary and 22 PART D

unjustified. The Tribunal accordingly set aside the order dated 15 March 2016

cancelling the selection process clarifying that the appointments to be offered to the

successful candidates would be subject to the ACB investigation. In its subsequent

order dated 27 February 2017, the Tribunal in OA 1578/2016 followed its earlier

order and issued the same direction. writ petitions instituted by DSSSB and GNCTD under Article 226 of the Constitution.

During the pendency of the petitions, intervention applications were moved before

the High Court by candidates who had not instituted proceedings before the

Tribunal. The candidates seeking intervention before the High Court claimed to be

successful in the examination and submitted that they would be adversely affected if

the High Court were to allow the petitions and upheld the cancellation of the

recruitment process as ordered on 15 March 2016. The High Court dismissed the

applications for intervention and one of its orders in that regard dated 15 December

2017 reads as follows: 24 By its judgment dated 13 January 2020, the Division Bench observed that: PART D (iii) In the present case, through a detailed enquiry which was conducted by

 the two committees, it had been possible to determine that at least in

 respect of 281 candidates that there was no evidence of the use of unfair

 means; (iv) An elaborate enquiry had been undertaken by GNCTD and DSSSB as a

 consequence of which there was no difficulty in separating the untainted

 candidates, namely the six applicants before the Tribunal, from the tainted

 ones; and (v) DSSSB and GNCTD were unable to demonstrate that any of the six

 applicants who had moved the Tribunal had indulged in malpractices.

25 In view of the above premises, the High Court: II examination. There is a reasonable basis to presume that

 these candidates were not bona fide and the effort had been to

 ensure that the field of competition was substantially narrowed 27 PART E

 for those who would ultimately appear and clear the Tier-II

 examination; (e) The process of randomisation was manipulated as a result of

 which persons belonging to the same family or close relatives

 were assigned the same examination centre and sat for the Tier-

 I examination in the same examination room; (f) The education qualifications of the candidates were not verified; and (g) There were serious doubts in regard to whether the

 arrangements for installing jammers and for video-graphing the

 process were at all functional. (v) The first Committee in its report came to the conclusion that there was a

 much larger impersonation; (vi) The decision which was taken by the Deputy Chief Minister after the

 receipt of the report of the first Committee on 23 December 2015 to

 constitute a Committee for verifying the impersonation amongst

 candidates who were falling in the zone of selection did not amount to a

 closure of the findings which were arrived at by the first Committee on

 broader issues pertaining to the sanctity of the process. The second

 Committee had a limited mandate of examining whether any of the

 candidates who were in the zone of selection after the Tier-II examination

 were guilty of impersonation. Just because the second Committee

 exonerated a large number of candidates under its consideration for 28 PART E

 impersonation cannot be construed as them being given a clean chit

 overall. After the report of the second Committee, a final decision was still

 to be taken when it was concluded ultimately that in view of the large-

 scale fraud, the entire process should be scrapped; (vii) At the point of time when the second Committee was appointed for the

 purpose of verifying impersonation amongst candidates in the zone of

 selection, the government had not yet finally applied its mind to the report

 of the first Committee. Ultimately when the Government applied its mind to

 the report of the first Committee and the report of the Director (Vigilance),

 a decision was taken to cancel the entire process. This was legitimate

 because as on 23 December 2015, no final decision had been taken on

 the report of the first Committee; (viii) All the 281 candidates who were verified for impersonation by the second

 Committee cannot be regarded as untainted; (ix) Many of them may well be untainted but all the other factors have to be

 read cumulatively. When the examination process has been deprived of its

 sanctity it was justifiably decided to cancel it in its entirety. This decision

 was consistent with precedents of this Court which are an authority for the

 proposition that, when the examination process is beset with systemic

 flaws, the process as a whole stands vitiated, and it would be wrong to

 insist that each individual instance of wrongdoing be challenged and

 addressed. 29 PART E (x) In other words, the fact that some amongst the candidates may be

 untainted would not negate the decision of the Government to scrap the

 process when the entire examination has been found to suffer from

 serious irregularities; and (xi) In any event, having regard to the fact that the ultimate decision of the

 Deputy Chief Minister envisaged the grant of age relaxation, all the

 candidates were free to appear in the subsequent recruitment process. As

 a matter of fact, a large number of them have appeared in subsequent

 examinations. Consequently the grant of relief by the Tribunal was clearly

 not justified. The Tribunal failed to apply its mind to the deficiencies which

 were noticed in the Tier-I examination, and this error has affected the

 judgment of the High Court as well. 27 Mr P S Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel led the submissions on behalf of the

candidates. The following submissions have been urged: PART E

28 Elaborating on his submissions, Mr Patwalia urged that on 9 November 2015

DSSSB submitted a comprehensive and detailed note containing its comments to

the Deputy Chief Minister. The note was signed and endorsed by three IAS Officers

who formed a board, apart from whom there were ten other officers. The submission

is that on every aspect which was raised in the first and the second enquiry

committee reports, a detailed clarification was submitted by DSSSB with supporting

reasons establishing that there was no irregularity in the conduct of the

examinations. In particular, the following features were emphasized by Mr Patwalia: The question papers were printed in four series of booklets which provided 31 PART E

 an adequate guarantee against the use of unfair means by candidates

 who were sitting in close proximity. Alteration of sitting arrangements was

 made; (iii) No examination is completely taint-free. Complaints as to the process

 were made by anonymous sources which does not inspire confidence. On

 the suspicious geographic concentration of successful candidates, the

 same thing could be said about examinations such as the UPSC

 examination. This cannot be a valid basis to call the robustness of the

 process into question; and (iv) Adequate provisions were made for conducting videography.

29 In the above backdrop, it has been submitted that based on the

recommendations of DSSSB, the Deputy Chief Minister took a decision on 23

December 2015 to constitute a committee for verifying whether candidates in the

zone of selection were guilty of impersonation. This in fact was the course of action

which was taken by the Deputy Chief Minister because DSSSB has itself clarified in

its comments that it was in the process of conducting a verification on the issue of

impersonation. Eventually, after carrying out a detailed exercise, the report of the

second Committee found that 281 candidates were free of taint. Once, the Deputy

Chief Minister had, upon receiving the comments of DSSSB, confined the enquiry to

whether there was any impersonation by candidates within the zone of selection,

this was the only issue which remained to be resolved. Upon the report of the

second Committee, it was found that 281 candidates were free of taint. Adverting to 32 PART E

the reasons adduced by the Tribunal and confirmed by the High Court, it was

highlighted that (i) The ACB investigation was confined to only those candidates whose

 conduct was suspected; (ii) The status report of the ACB indicated that 281 candidates did not form

 part of the investigation; and (iii) As a result of the exercise conducted by the second Committee, it was

 possible to identify and separate tainted from untainted candidates.

30 In the above backdrop, Mr PS Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel urged that

the decision of the Tribunal to set aside the cancellation of the selection process is

eminently fair and proper. Moreover, it was urged that the six candidates who had

approached the Tribunal and to whom relief has been confined by the High Court

need not be required to appear at the Tier-II examinations once the cancellation of

the results has been set aside. As regards candidates who had not moved the

Tribunal, it was urged that the benefit of the order setting aside the cancellation of

the recruitment process must enure to all candidates among the group of 281

persons who have been found to be free of taint. 31 Mr Chandra Shekhar, learned Counsel appeared on behalf of the candidates

who had intervened before the High Court and whose interventions were rejected by

the order dated 15 December 2017. Mr Ritin Rai, learned Senior Counsel elaborated

upon the fact that DSSSB had in its recommendation indicated that there was no 33 PART F

systematic flaw or irregularity in the recruitment process. The Deputy Chief Minister,

it was urged, had accepted the recommendations of DSSSB on 23 December 2015.

Hence, once the issue of impersonation was investigated and sorted out through the

report of the second Committee, it became possible to segregate the tainted

candidates from candidates against whom no taint was found. Learned Counsel

submitted that even those candidates who had not moved the Tribunal should be

entitled to the benefit of its decision. It was urged that since the Tribunal had set

aside the entire decision to cancel the recruitment process, there was no occasion

for the candidates to file writ petitions before the High Court. The common issue

which arose both before the Tribunal and the High Court was in regard to the

sanctity of the examination process. Once it was found that the Tier-I and Tier-II

examinations did not suffer from irregularity, all candidates forming a part of the 281

persons who have been verified by the report of the second Committee would be

entitled to the benefit of the order of the High Court, and the High Court erred in

confining the benefit of its order only to six candidates.

32 The rival submissions now would need to be analyzed. five decades, several decisions of this Court have dealt with the fundamental issue

of when the process of an examination can stand vitiated. Essentially, the answer to

the issue turns upon whether the irregularities in the process have taken place at a 34 PART F

systemic level so as to vitiate the sanctity of the process. There are cases which

border upon or cross-over into the domain of fraud as a result of which the credibility

and legitimacy of the process is denuded. This constitutes one end of the spectrum

where the authority conducting the examination or convening the selection process

comes to the conclusion that as a result of supervening event or circumstances, the

process has lost its legitimacy, leaving no option but to cancel it in its entirety.

Where a decision along those lines is taken, it does not turn upon a fact-finding

exercise into individual acts involving the use of mal-practices or unfair means.

Where a recourse to unfair means has taken place on a systemic scale, it may be

difficult to segregate the tainted from the untainted participants in the process. Large

scale irregularities including those which have the effect of denying equal access to

similarly circumstanced candidates are suggestive of a malaise which has eroded

the credibility of the process. At the other end of the spectrum are cases where

some of the participants in the process who appear at the examination or selection

test are guilty of irregularities. In such a case, it may well be possible to segregate

persons who are guilty of wrong-doing from others who have adhered to the rules

and to exclude the former from the process. In such a case, those who are innocent

of wrong-doing should not pay a price for those who are actually found to be

involved in irregularities. By segregating the wrong-doers, the selection of the

untainted candidates can be allowed to pass muster by taking the selection process

to its logical conclusion. This is not a mere matter of administrative procedure but as

a principle of service jurisprudence it finds embodiment in the constitutional duty by

which public bodies have to act fairly and reasonably. A fair and reasonable process 35 PART F

of selection to posts subject to the norm of equality of opportunity under Article 16(1) is a constitutional requirement. A fair and reasonable process is a fundamental

requirement of Article 14 as well. Where the recruitment to public employment

stands vitiated as a consequence of systemic fraud or irregularities, the entire

process becomes illegitimate. On the other hand, where it is possible to segregate

persons who have indulged in mal-practices and to penalise them for their wrong-

doing, it would be unfair to impose the burden of their wrong-doing on those who are

free from taint. To treat the innocent and the wrong-doers equally by subjecting the

former to the consequence of the cancellation of the entire process would be

contrary to Article 14 because unequals would then be treated equally. The

requirement that a public body must act in fair and reasonable terms animates the

entire process of selection. The decisions of the recruiting body are hence subject to

judicial control subject to the settled principle that the recruiting authority must have

a measure of discretion to take decisions in accordance with law which are best

suited to preserve the sanctity of the process. Now it is in the backdrop of these

principles, that it becomes appropriate to advert to the precedents of this Court

which hold the field. 34 Over four decades ago, in Bihar School Examination Board v. Subhas

Chandra Sinha & Others 3 , a three judge Bench of this Court dealt with a case

involving a challenge to the decision to cancel the annual secondary school

examination in relation to a particular centre in a district in Bihar. The irregularities at 3 (1970) 1 SCC 648 36 PART F

the centre were summarised in the following extracts contained in the judgment of

this Court: 35 The decision of a three judge Bench of this Court in Anamica Mishra v. UP

Public Service Commission, Allahabad4 (“Anamica Mishra” ) involved recruitment

to various posts in the educational services of the State of Uttar Pradesh. There was

a two stage recruitment involving a written test and interview. It was found that after

the written examination, due to the improper feeding of data into the computer, some

candidates who had a better performance in the written examination were not called

for interview and candidates who secured lesser marks were not only called for the 4 (1990) Supp. SCC 692 39 PART F

interview but were finally selected. The entire process was canceled by the Public

Service Commission. Dealing with the situation, this Court observed: 36 In Madhyamic Shiksha Mandal, MP v. Abhilash Shiksha Prasar Samiti 5,

the High Court had interfered with the decision of the MP Madhyamic Shiksha

Mandal to cancel the entire examination, following the report of the Naib Tehsildar

who found that students had been indulging in mass copying. The report of the Naib

Tehsildar showed that during the course of a visit to the centre, students were

indulging in copying even before the question papers were distributed indicating that 5 (1998) 9 SCC 236 40 PART F

there was leakage of the question paper. The teachers had not objected to the

students entering the examination hall with books and copying material, indicating

their complicity. Holding that the view of the High Court to set aside the cancellation

was unsustainable, this Court held: 37 On the other hand, the judgment of a two judge Bench of this Court in Union

of India v. Rajesh P U Puthuvalnikathu 6 involved a situation where a selection list

consequent to a written examination, interview and physical fitness test for filling up

the posts of constables in the CBI was cancelled, due to allegations of favouritism

on the part of the officers conducting the physical efficiency test and irregularities in

the written examination. A challenge to the cancellation failed before the Tribunal

upon which proceedings were initiated before the High Court. A Committee had 6 (2003) 7 SCC 285 41 PART F

been appointed by the Director, CBI, which upon meticulous examination found that

31 candidates who were otherwise ineligible were included in the selection list and

an equal number of eligible candidates was ousted. In this backdrop the High Court

found that there was no justification to cancel the entire selection when the impact of

irregularities which had crept into the evaluation of merits could be identified

specifically and was found on verifying the records to have resulted in 31 candidates

being selected undeservedly. Upholding the view of the High Court, a two judge

Bench of this Court held: PART F ( d) Hanuman Prasad v. Union of India [(1996) 10 SCC 742 : As this Court noted in Joginder Pal (supra), the Committee “could pinpoint those

candidates who had got selected were selected for oblique considerations”. In other

words, candidates against whom no taint was found had been selected on merits on

their performance in the written examination and interview. Yet the Committee

came to the conclusion that the entire process of selection was a product of “a well-

planned scheme of deception, forgery and fraud” and, therefore, deserved to be set

aside in its entirety. As a result of this report, the original writ petitions were re-heard

following the remand by this Court in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) and were 8 (2014) 6 SCC 644 47 PART F

referred to a five judge Bench. The writ petitions of the tainted candidates were

dismissed by the High Court but even in the case of non-tainted candidates, it was

held that the government was entitled to cancel the entire selection process, once it

was found to be vitiated by deception, forgery and fraud. The conclusion of the High

Court in regard to the tainted candidates was affirmed in the judgment of this Court

in Joginder Pal (supra), authored by Justice AK Sikri. The judgment of this Court

held that by the directions which were issued in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra),

an effort was required to be made to segregate the tainted from non-tainted

candidates. Justice Sikri held that two conclusions of the High Court were

“antithetical”: once it was found that segregating the tainted from non-tainted

candidates is possible and was also achieved, the other conclusion (to set aside the

entire process) was incompatible. The Court held that the issue of the entire

selection process being vitiated would have arisen only if the findings of the

Committee were that it was not possible to distinguish the cases of the tainted from

the non-tainted candidates. The Court held that the reasons for holding the entire

process should be vitiated were the same as those which had been urged before the

High Court earlier. Moreover, a crucial development which had taken place after the

remand was that the State had come forward and indicated its willingness to take

back candidates who were not tainted and were selected on the basis of merit. In

this backdrop, the order passed by the High Court was set aside. 48 PART F

44 The decision in Chairman All India Railway Recruitment Board v. K

Shyam Kumar 9 (“Chairman, Railway Recruitment Board”) involved a case where

the Board had invited applications for Group-D posts in the South Central Railway.

As many as 10.02 lac applications were received of which 5.86 lac applicants were

found eligible. The eligible candidates were required to appear at a written test. 3.22

lac candidates appeared of whom 2690 were selected and called for the physical

efficiency test. Those who qualified were called for verification of original certificates.

At that stage, it was noticed that certain mal-practices took place during the written

examination inter alia involving mass copying, leakage of question papers and

impersonation. The Vigilance Department recommended that the matter be referred

to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Railway Recruitment Board decided to

conduct a retest. This decision was challenged by certain candidates who had taken

the first written examination, before the Tribunal. The Tribunal rejected the plea.

While considering a challenge to the decision of the Tribunal, the High Court held

that there was no reasonable basis to cancel the first selection and directed the

Board to finalize the selection on the basis of the first written test save and except

for 62 candidates against whom there were allegations of impersonation. 9 (2010) 6 SCC 614 49 PART F

45 In appeal, this court noted the report of the Vigilance Department which

indicated that: The investigation prima facie established a leakage of question papers to

 a sizable number of candidates; and (iii) This seemed to be pre-planned and the possibility of the involvement of

 the staff of the Board could not be ruled out. In this backdrop, this Court considered whether the High Court was justified in

interfering with the decision of the Board to conduct a retest for those who had

obtained minimum qualifying marks in the first written test. During the pendency of

the proceedings before this Court, the Board was directed to declare the result of the

second test and to appoint the selected candidates subject to the result of the

appeals. Justice K S P Radhakrishnan, speaking for a two judge Bench emphasized

that three options were available to the Railway Recruitment Board: 46 A more recent decision of a two judge Bench was in State of Tamil Nadu v.

A Kalaimani 10 (“Kalaimani”). The Teachers Recruitment Board in the State of Tamil

Nadu had invited applications for selection to the posts of lecturers in Government

Polytechnic Colleges. The written examination was of an objective type and

candidates were required to fill up OMR sheets. There were allegations of large

scale malpractices in the written examination involving tampering of the OMR

sheets. After re-evaluation, discrepancies were found in the entries pertaining to 196

candidates who were beneficiaries of a fraudulent alteration of marks. A decision 10 2019 SCC Online 1002 51 PART F

was taken to cancel the examination which was conducted for selection to the posts

of lecturers as the Board was of the view that there were chances of more

malpractices being unearthed at a later stage and there was a serious doubt about

the purity of the process. The Division Bench of the High Court held that the

fabrication of the records pertained only to 196 candidates and when a segregation

was possible, the entire examination ought not to be cancelled. In appeal, this Court

adverted to the decision in Inderpreet Singh Kahlon (supra) as well as the view

which was taken in Gohil Vishvaraj Hanubhai v. State of Gujarat 11 (“Gohil”)

where it was held: 47 The decisions in Chairman, Railway Recruitment Board, Gohil and

Kalamani (supra) all go to emphasise that a recruiting authority is entitled to take a

bona fide view, based on the material before it, that the entire process stands

vitiated as a result of which a fresh selection process should be initiated. The

integrity of the selection process cannot be lightly disregarded by the High Court

substituting its own subjective opinion on the sufficiency of the material which has

been taken into account by the decision making authority. Undoubtedly, fairness to

candidates who participate in the process is an important consideration. There may

be situations where candidates who have indulged in irregularities can be identified

and it is then possible for the authority to segregate the tainted from the untainted

candidates. On the other hand, there may be situations where the nature of the

irregularities may be manifold and the number of candidates involved is of such a

magnitude that it is impossible to precisely delineate or segregate the tainted from

the untainted. A considered decision of the authority based on the material before it

taken bona fide should not lightly be interfered in the exercise of the powers of

judicial review unless it stands vitiated on grounds of unreasonableness or

proportionality. of the Chief Minister, GNCTD regarding irregularities in the conduct of the

examinations conducted by DSSSB for the post of Grade-II DASS, a Committee

consisting of the Director (Vigilance) and District Magistrate (East) was appointed to

enquire into the matter and submit its report. The Committee upon a preliminary

examination noted the gravamen of the complaints which involved allegations that: 49 The Committee noted that there was a delay of almost five years in

conducting the Tier-I examination. As a result, of the 62,056 applicants only 8224

had appeared at the Tier-I examination giving rise to an apprehension that adequate

information had not been furnished to candidates. The Committee furnished

examples of candidates who had secured high marks in Tier - I examination but

extremely low marks in the Tier-II exam. Candidates also appeared to be

concentrated from a particular area of Delhi. The Committee found it “astonishing 55 PART G

that the whole marks lists is dominated by a particular section of society” based on

their surnames. There were instances of candidates who had secured high marks in

Tier-I failing to appear at the Tier-II examination. The Committee was critical of the

role of DSSSB in failing to devote serious attention to the irregularities which had

taken place during the course of the examination. 50 The Committee had representations before it from candidates as well. The

Committee found that members of the same family were found to be sitting in close

proximity both in the Tier-I and Tier-II examinations of which details were tabulated

in the report. The Committee noted that it had addressed a questionnaire to the

officials of DSSSB in regard to the alleged irregularities but they expressed their

inability to answer the queries. The Committee found that in the absence of

randomization, many cases had emerged where two or more members of a single

family sat in consecutive order and were falling under the zone of probable

selection. A majority of candidates falling in the zone of selection appeared to

belong to the same geographical area. In this backdrop and considering the

voluminous nature of the documentary material, the Committee was of the view that

either the CBI or the Crime Branch would be able to investigate into the matter. The

matter did not rest there. In its report, the first Committee found that there were

serious irregularities in the examinations conducted by DSSSB for the post of

Grade-II DASS. The report of the Committee dwells on: 51 The Committee was of the view that one of the main reasons for the

appearance of a small proportion of candidates as compared to the applications was

the inability of candidates to access the internet to download the e-admit cards. This,

in the view of the Committee, prima facie vitiated the selection process. DSSSB in

its reply had noted that it would earlier remit the admit cards by post but this gave

rise to administrative difficulties as a result of postal delays, changes in address and

the issuance of duplicate cards in place of those lost or damaged in transit.

52 On 5 June 2013, the Board had followed the pattern of the UPSC and Railway

Board and decided to also issue e-admit cards which was to be given a wide

publicity. On this aspect the Committee noted that the advertisement had not

mentioned that admit cards shall be issued through the electronic medium only. A

period of five years had elapsed since the date of the advertisement. It was not

possible for the candidates to keep a vigil on the notifications of a single

examination. In this backdrop, the decision of DSSSB, during the course of the

process, to allow only e-admit cards was a deviation which resulted in a small

number of candidates appearing in the Tier-I examination. This was clearly a pointer

to the denial of equal access and opportunity to all candidates in the selection

process. The Committee buttressed this finding by observing that there was a wide

variation between the marks obtained in the Tier-I and Tier-II examinations. In the

absence of randomization, it was found that members of a family and close relatives 57 PART G

sat in the same room and details of these candidates were duly tabulated. The

Committee dealt with the explanation of DSSSB that the software for randomization

was not available prior to 28 June 2015 and that steps have been taken for

reshuffling candidates. The Committee did not accept the explanation of the Board,

noting that if randomisation had been done in the Tier-I examination, it was then

inconceivable as to how family members and close relatives sat in the same room.

Moreover, it found it surprising that randomisation had been done in Tier-I and not in

Tier-II. Though, according to DSSSB, manual reshuffling had been done for the Tier-

II examination, even then a considerable number of closely related persons sat in

proximity at the Tier-II examination. Besides these irregularities, the Committee

noted that there was a racket which had led to the impersonation of candidates. This

racket involved a person by the name of Anil Kumar Malik who was the Chief

Invigilator at a particular centre. It was alleged that he was connected with a

coaching centre which was also involved in the leakage of the question papers. The

Committee noted the allegation that this person had repeatedly fixed his duties in a

choice of his own centres with the help of DSSSB staff and there were instances of

impersonation which had emerged. The Committee proceeded to tabulate these

instances. Apart from this, the Committee found that the videography was blurred,

thumb impressions were unrecognizable, jammers were not working properly and

candidates had been allowed to appear irrespective of their educational

qualifications. Further, it was noted that allegations of flying squad members

passing answers onto candidates could not be ruled out. Now, in this backdrop, the 58 PART G

Secretary Vigilance opined that the entire process of recruitment appeared to be

vitiated. 53 On 23 December 2015, the Deputy Chief Minister noted, on the basis of the

recommendations of the DSSSB on the alleged irregularities in the examination, that

all candidates who were in the zone of consideration may be scrutinised to check for

impersonation “before the decision of the Board regarding declaration of the results”.

Candidates in the zone of consideration who would fail to attend the process of

verification would stand disqualified from the examination. The second Committee

was then constituted to check the credentials of all candidates falling in the zone of

consideration. This led to the report of the second Committee. The Committee noted

that out of 290 candidates who were called, 270 remained present and another lot of

11 candidates came forth upon being granted a further opportunity. After conducting

a process of verification the Committee observed that “no irregularity is found in the

documents of the 281 present candidates”. However, in the meantime, an FIR was

lodged on 18 January 2016 by the Anti-Corruption Branch, Delhi; the files in original

were seized on 19 February 2016 and certified copies of the dossier were

subsequently seized on 26 February 2016. The Deputy Chief Minister on 2 March

2016, was apprised of the report of the second Committee. The Deputy Chief

Minister noted that verification had been carried out in respect of the candidates who

were in the zone of consideration. At the same time, the report of the Directorate of

Vigilance indicated that the examination process had been vitiated and “there are far

serious complaints about the conduct of Tier-I examination for the same post code”. 59 PART G

Noting that there should be “zero tolerance towards corruption and officials who may

join government through improper examination are just not acceptable”, a decision

was taken to cancel the entire examination. However, an age relaxation was

provided for candidates to appear in the new examination.

54 The drift of the submissions which have been urged by Mr PS Patwalia,

learned Senior Counsel is that when the Deputy Chief Minister directed that a

Committee be constituted to check for impersonation from amongst candidates

within the zone of selection, by his noting dated 23 December 2015, this would

necessarily mean that the explanation which was tendered by DSSSB in regard to

whether any irregularities had taken place in the examination stood accepted and

nothing further remained except to check for impersonation. Hence, it has been

submitted that once the second Committee came to the conclusion that none of the

281 candidates in the zone of selection were found to be engaged in impersonation,

there was no basis thereafter to cancel the examination. On the other hand, Ms

Madhavi Divan, learned ASG has submitted that the remit of the second Committee

was narrow in scope, which was to verify only the aspects of impersonation. This did

not efface the findings in the report of the first committee and the deputy Chief

Minister could have legitimately decided to cancel the entire process.

55 We find on the basis of the record that there is substance in the submission

which has been urged by the ASG. The complaints in regard to the recruitment

process related both to the Tier-I and Tier-II examinations. The complaints were

carefully analysed by the first Committee and as noted earlier serious irregularities 60 PART G

were found. The irregularities were not confined to acts of mal-practice or unfair

means on the part of a specific group of persons. On the contrary, the report of the

Committee found deficiencies of a systemic nature which cast serious doubts on the

legitimacy of the entire process of recruitment involving both the Tier-I and Tier-II

examinations. The order of the Deputy Chief Minister dated 23 December 2015 did

not differ with the conclusions of the first Committee. In fact, the said order refrained

from commenting on the findings of the first Committee. All that the Deputy Chief

Minister’s order directed was the narrowing of the scope of further investigation to

one of the irregularities, that is, impersonation. In directing that a verification be

carried out on whether any of the candidates in the zone of selection had been guilty

of impersonation, the Deputy Chief Minister’s order did not wipe out the irregularities

in the entire examination process. It is not possible to accept the submission that

after ordering a verification on impersonation, nothing further remained to be done

and that there could be no further rejection of the sanctity of the process on the

basis of the report of the first Committee. It is quite possible that the Deputy Chief

Minister directed a further investigation into the allegations of impersonation only to

lend credibility to the ultimate decision which he would take. Mr Patwalia has made

a strenuous effort to read from the explanation submitted by DSSSB, urging that as

many as three IAS officers and other officers who had appended their signatures to

the explanatory note provided a justification to the defence that the Tier-I and Tier-II

examinations did not suffer from flaws. It must be noted that the conduct of DSSSB

and its officials was itself under a cloud. Their explanation could by no means be

regarded as conclusive or binding upon the authorities of GNCTD. The Deputy Chief 61 PART G

Minister in recommending that the entire process be cancelled emphasised the

systemic nature of the violations which had taken place. These violations may or

may not involve all of the candidates within the ultimate zone of selection but that in

our view is beside the point for the simple reason that the gravamen of the charge in

the present case is not in regard to the taint which attaches to a specific group of

persons but to the sanctity of the recruitment process as a whole. The precedents of

this Court sufficiently demonstrate that when the credibility of an entire examination

stands vitiated by systemic irregularities, the issue then is not about seeking to

identify the candidates who are tainted. In the present case, as we have seen, there

was a basic denial of equal access to the Tier-I examination. The nature of the

allegations which were found to be substantiated upon a careful examination by the

first Committee showed that the credibility of the process itself had been eroded. In

such a situation, where a decision is taken by the Government to cancel the entire

process, it cannot be held to be irrational or arbitrary, applying the yardstick of fair

procedure and proportionality to the decision-making process.

56 During the course of his submissions, Mr PS Patwalia has sought to provide

explanations for each of the systemic irregularities pointed out by the first

Committee, including the drastic reduction in the number of candidates who

appeared for the Tier-I examination, non-issuance of hard copies of admit cards,

shortlisting of candidates belonging to a certain geographical area, lack of

randomization in the examination centres, among others. In response to this, the

learned ASG has pointed out that while assessing whether the recruitment process 62 PART G

has been compromised, the factors (or irregularities) must be looked at cumulatively

to ascertain whether they are sufficiently grave to cancel the recruitment. We find

ourselves in agreement with the learned ASG. So long as there is sufficient basis to

contend that mass-scale irregularities have occurred, this Court need not indulge in

a roving inquiry to rule out all possible explanations and alternative scenarios where

such irregularities would be justified. 57 Recruitment to public services must command public confidence. Persons

who are recruited are intended to fulfil public functions associated with the

functioning of the Government. Where the entire process is found to be flawed, its

cancellation may undoubtedly cause hardship to a few who may not specifically be

found to be involved in wrong-doing. But that is not sufficient to nullify the ultimate

decision to cancel an examination where the nature of the wrong-doing cuts through

the entire process so as to seriously impinge upon the legitimacy of the

examinations which have been held for recruitment. Both the High Court and the

Tribunal have, in our view, erred in laying exclusive focus on the report of the

second Committee which was confined to the issue of impersonation. The report of

the second Committee is only one facet of the matter. The Deputy Chief Minister

was justified in going beyond it and ultimately recommending that the entire process

should be cancelled on the basis of the findings which were arrived at in the report

of the first Committee. Those findings do not stand obliterated nor has the Tribunal

found any fault with those findings. In this view of the matter, both the judgments of

the Tribunal and the High Court are unsustainable. 63 PART G

58 During the course of her submissions, the ASG has placed on record the fact

that in the subsequent recruitment processes a number of the 281 candidates

participated afresh. An age relaxation had been granted. In 2017, 133 out of 281

candidates participated and 13 were selected. In 2020, 87 out of the 281

participated, and 3 of them were short-listed. During the course of her submissions,

the ASG has also submitted that even among the 281 candidates, it is not possible

to conclude that all of them are untainted. In the view which we have taken it is not

necessary to dwell on this aspect of the matter once the Court has arrived at the

conclusion that the entire process was vitiated and that the cancellation was proper.

59 The Tribunal while setting aside the decision to cancel the recruitment

process directed the Government to process the appointments of all 281 candidates

who were found to be within the zone of selection though as a matter of fact only 6

of them had moved the Tribunal. After DSSSB and GNCTD moved the High Court in

proceedings under Article 226 to challenge the decision of the Tribunal, intervention

applications were moved by several candidates. These interventions were rejected

by the High Court and we have also extracted from the order passed during the

pendency of the proceedings on 15 December 2017 in para 20 of this judgment. The

High Court while dismissing the applications for intervention noted that the cause of

action had accrued on 15 March 2016 when the entire examination had been

cancelled, in spite of which none of the intervening candidates had challenged the

decision. The judgment of the High Court in the present case was delivered on 13

January 2020 and it is only thereafter that this Court has been moved under Article 64 PART G

136 of the Constitution. Some of the petitioners who instituted Special Leave

Petitions before this Court had not even moved applications for intervention before

the High Court. Others did not pursue their remedies against the order of the High

Court dated 15 December 2017 for over 2 years. They have taken no steps to

challenge the decision for the cancellation of the examination. In view of the fact that

we have upheld the submissions of DSSSB and GNCTD and proceed to set aside

the judgment of the High Court, the SLPs filed by the candidates would have to

stand rejected, in any event. 60 For the above reasons, we order and direct: PART G (iii) The appeals filed by DSSSB (arising from Special Leave Petition (C) No.

 11940 of 2020) and GNCTD (arising from Special Leave Petition (C) No.

 12066 of 2020) are allowed; (iv) The judgment of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court dated 13

 January 2020 (and in consequence the judgment of the Tribunal) are set

 aside; and (v) The companion appeals arising out of the SLPs 12 filed by the candidates

 stand dismissed. 61 There shall be no order as to costs. Pending application(s), if any, stand

disposed of. ……….….....................................................J.
 [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud]

 …..….….....................................................J.
 [M R Shah]

New Delhi; March 3, 2021 12 SLP(C) No. 5785-5786/2020
 SLP(C) No. 5783-5784/2020
 SLP(C) No. 5370-5371/2020
 SLP(C) No. 8811-8812/2020
 SLP(C) No. 11443-11444/2020
 SLP(C) No. 11441-11442/2020
 SLP(C) No. 12410-12411/2020
 SLP(C) No. 15297-15298/2020
 SLP(C) No. 15299-15300/2020
 SLP(C) No. 110-111/2021 66