The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has instructed its registered entities to comply with the latest guidelines of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) and use only the ‘1600’ phone number series for service and transactional calls, as per a press release issued on April 8.

This move comes as the stock market regulator is stepping up its efforts to combat and tackle instances of financial fraud and ensure investors’ protection.

SEBI has advised investors to take note of the above-mentioned phone number series to enhance their security and reduce the risk of financial fraud by exploitative entities using regular 10-digit phone numbers.

“Investors should note the new ‘1600’ phone numbering series to easily identify and attend service and transactional calls from SEBI-regulated/registered entities, thereby enhancing investor security and minimising the risk of fraud by unscrupulous entities using regular 10-digit numbers,” the press release reads.

Apart from mandating the use of the ‘1600’ phone number series, SEBI has also issued specific directions to investors to report any kind of unsolicited commercial communication (UCC) or suspected fraudulent activities.

For instance, if an investor receives spam or UCC, SEBI advises them to make a Do Not Disturb (DND) complaint through their telecom service provider’s mobile application or website (eg: Airtel, Jio, Vi, MTNL, BSNL etc.).

Investors can also place a DND complaint using the TRAI DND application or by calling/sending an SMS to 1909.

On the other hand, if an investor receives a suspected fraudulent communication, they can report it on the Chakshu platform of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT).

If financial fraud has already occurred, investors can report it to the Cyber Crime Helpline Number 1930 or through the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal .

The securities regulator recently imposed a ₹4 lakh penalty on an investment advisory firm for violating SEBI’s 2013 Investment Adviser Regulations by charging excessive fees from investors and making misleading claims.

Additionally, in March 2025, SEBI directed registered intermediaries who upload advertisements on social media platforms to use email IDs and mobile numbers registered on the SEBI Intermediary (SI) Portal while signing up.

SEBI also asked these intermediaries to update their contact details on the SI portal by April 30, 2025.

Notably, in its crusade against financial exploitation, the securities regulator even levied a fine on a Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) subsidiary in February 2025 for cybersecurity and disaster recovery lapses.

In December 2024, SEBI instructed investors to not conduct transactions or share sensitive personal details on unauthorised or unregistered electronic platforms.

SEBI issued this advisory while noting that such platforms violate laws like the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the SEBI Act, 1992 .

It’s not just SEBI that is actively working to reduce incidences of financial fraud; stock exchanges operating in India have also taken an active role in advising investors on how to protect themselves.

For instance, in August 2024, the Bombay and National Stock Exchanges published a joint report urging investors not to join social media forums such as WhatsApp, Telegram, or Instagram channels that falsely offer trading opportunities using fake SEBI certificates.

In addition, the stock exchanges highlighted other illegal online activities, such as “dabba” or illegal trading services, claims of facilitating pre-IPO subscriptions with false promises of assured profits, impersonating apps of registered trading members, etc.

All these moves come at a time when stakeholders are leaving no stone unturned to ensure investor protection from monetary scams and financial fraud.

As the age-old adage goes, actions speak louder than words — and if these actions are anything to go by, one can rest assured that investors’ protection will be duly taken care of.

Also Read:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event