By way of present common order I shall 

conscientiously decide two applications both dated 27.01.2012 one 

u/s 151 CPC for deferment of examination of respondent witnesses 

and the other u/o VIII Rule 1 A order, XVI Rule 1 A read with section 

151 CPC for production of additional documents on record. Both 

these applications have been moved by the respondent Natasha 

Kohli & Charanjit Chhatta. 2. The facts relevant for disposal of the instant 

applications are that parties to the present petition are married 

couple intensely fighting each other, one to severe the nuptial 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 1/18 2 knot and the other trying to keep it intact. The petitioner/husband 

initially filed a petition u/s 13 (1) (i­a) of Hindu Marriage Act, 1956 (in short 'HMA') for dissolution of marriage by a decree of divorce 

on the ground of cruelty on 31.01.2007 (Petition no. HMA­ 5/10, 

Old No. 199/10). It so happened that during the pendency of the 

aforesaid petition for divorce, the present petition u/s 11 seeking a 

decree of nullity and in alternative u/s 12 (1) (c) for seeking 

annulment of the marriage on the ground of fraud has been filed. 

Like other matrimonial litigations interlocutory applications u/s 24 and 26 of HMA were also filed. Issues in both the petitions were 

settled on 25.09.2010 and on application of the respondent/wife, 

the petitions were consolidated and evidence was directed to be led 

in common by the Ld. Predecessor of this court vide order dated 

02.12.2010. 3. It further so happened that in between the petitioner, 

of his volition decided to withdraw the earlier divorce petition with 

a liberty to file afresh which was also duly considered by Ld. 

Predecessor of this court and the petition was allowed to be 

withdrawn vide order dated 23.12.2010 however, liberty was 

refused. Ld. Predecessor of this court in the aforesaid order also 

directed the interim applications u/s 24 and 26 of the Act, to 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 2/18 3 continue alongwith the present petition for annulment & nullity. 4. Evidence was led by the petitioner and was finally 

concluded on 22.10.2011 whereafter which in other litigation 

between the parties, the dispute was referred by the Hon'ble High 

Court to the High Court Mediation Committee. The parties even 

approached the Hon'ble Supreme Court in one such matter where 

also compromise talks were taken up. 5. The respondent Natasha Kohli filed her affidavit by 

way of evidence before this court and got partly examined herself 

in chief on 09.12.2011 whereafter which in between the two 

applications referred to above were preferred . 6. In so far as the first application u/s 151 CPC is 

concerned, the same is for the purpose of deferment of the 

examination of Respondent/RW1 on account of some recent 

development on her work front resulting into certain commitment 

which requires her to be personally present on her office work on 

the date of hearing. The supporting reason given by the 

respondent/applicant is now that she is single handedly managing 

her business of furniture making after dispute with petitioner and 

has also incurring huge expenditure on the household and upkeep 

of minor child, she is required to look after the impending business 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 3/18 4 needs. Ld. Counsel for respondent/applicant has further brought 

to the notice of the court the various orders passed by Hon'ble High 

Court between the parties from 17.11.2011 till 14.12.2011 and the 

order dated 03.01.2012 passed by Hon'ble Supreme Court, 

primarily to show the evidence of the respondent could not be 

done owing to aforesaid orders. 7. Ld. Counsel for the petitioner on the other hand 

has vehemently opposed the application thereby bringing to the 

notice of the court order dated 22.10.2011, 03.12.2011 and 

08.12.2011, besides 09.12.2011 on which date affidavit of RW1 was 

filed. It has been brought to the notice of the court that since the 

date when petitioner's evidence was closed, respondent has been 

granted 3 opportunities sometime even subject to costs which has 

not been availed properly and inconsonance with the directions of 

the court. Ld. Counsel for petitioner has vehemently argued that in 

terms of Rule (1) of order XVII, CPC no party can be granted more 

than 3 adjournments during the entire hearing of the case which 

the respondent has exhausted even before filing the affidavit on 

record. Ld. Senior counsel has further strongly argued that even 

otherwise sufficiency of reason seeking the deferment of 

respondent's evidence has not been shown. HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 4/18 5 8. I have carefully considered the rival contentions of 

the parties and also perused the record. It may be seen that the 

issues in the instant matter were settled on 23.09.2010 whereafter 

which the matter was listed for Plaintiff's Evidence which was 

concluded on 22.10.2011 on which date the respondent was 

directed to file affidavit of all the witnesses by next date with 

advance copy to other side. The respondent failed to file the same 

and the non­filing of affidavit has been recorded by the court in its 

order dated 03.12.2011 whereafter which the respondent was 

directed to file affidavit of all the witnesses including herself by 

next date with the advance copy of the same at least 2 days in 

advance. It so happened on even 08.12.2011, the same was not 

filed and the opportunity to file the same was granted by Ld. 

Predecessor of this court subject to costs of Rs.5,000/­ and the 

matter was listed for 09.12.2011 on which date affidavit of RW1 was 

filed and the costs of Rs.5,000/­ was also waived of. It is pertinent 

to mention here that while waiving the costs, the orders passed by 

Hon'ble High Court was duly considered by the learned 

predecessor of this court while granting opportunities. In any case 

filing of the affidavits of the respondent was not seen as an 

impediment or obstruction to the process of compromise by 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 5/18 6 Hon'ble Court who directed deferment of cross­examination only 

to maintain healthy environment for compromise. Even otherwise, 

this Court is not very much satisfied about the sufficiency of cause 

shown today for non­appearance of the respondent that to when 

the date of hearing for RE was taken by the Ld. Counsel for the 

respondent on the last date of hearing. In any case, inspection of 

furniture items resulting into a commitment can not be considered 

as a sufficient reason, suffice enough to compare the same when it 

comes for recording of evidence before the court of law that to 

after so many opportunities and as such applicant has not been 

able to show a sufficient cause for deferment, however, one thing 

which is to be seen interesting in the instant matter that while all 

the times, the petitioner was denying compromise before the 

Hon'ble High Court and Hon'ble Court was trying to see a kind of 

mediation between the parties but on 03.01.2012 it was the 

petitioner who has suddenly circulated a request letter for the 

purpose of seeking an adjournment on the ground that the 

compromise talks are going on between the parties, a fact which 

has been reflected in the order dated 03.01.2012 of the Hon'ble 

Supreme Court on which date the parties were advised not to 

proceed further in pending matters so as to maintain a good 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 6/18 7 atmosphere for an early settlement. This shows that on same point 

of time petitioner has also shown his inclination to amicably settle 

the matter. Accordingly this court, to balance the equities 

between the parties, is of the considered opinion and the interest 

of justice would be met if the respondent is granted one 

opportunity to present herself for cross­examination subject to 

costs of Rs.10,000/­ out of which Rs.5,000/­ is to be deposited with 

Delhi Legal Aid . The costs has been imposed keeping in view the 

settled proposition of law laid down in Salem Bar Advocate 

Association Vs. Union of India , AIR 2005 SC the respective status 

of the parties and the fact that the petitioner engages a senior 

advocate and incurs expenditure on each date for pursuing his 

matter. With the aforesaid observation, the application u/s 151 CPC stands disposed of accordingly. 9. In so far as the Second application u/o VIII Rule 

1A , Order XVI Rule 1A read with section 151 CPC is concerned, it 

has been averred in the application by the applicant/respondent 

that the respondent is required to file certain documents which are 

extremely vital/material for determination of crucial issues 

including the issue of fraud between the parties. The respondent 

has stated that some of these documents also formed the part of 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 7/18 8 judicial record but there are certain documents mostly 

photographs which are not part of original record. The 

respondent/applicant has further stated that the filing of these 

documents have otherwise become extremely important/relevant 

in the light of the cross­examination of PW1. The 

applicant/respondent has further stated that the respondent is 

required to be given a fair chance to defend the instant case and no 

prejudice shall be caused to the petitioner since the petitioner 

shall be having all the liberties to cross­examinations the 

respondent on these documents. The petitioner has prayed for 

placing of certain documents more particularly mentioned in 

Annexure "A" filed alongwith the application. 10. This application has been vehemently opposed 

by the petitioner by filing a detailed reply thereby stating that the 

application is not maintainable either in law or otherwise on facts. 

The petitioner has further stated that the documents sought to be 

filed on record are otherwise not relevant to the real controversy 

between the parties, sought to be adjudicated in the instant case. 

Without prejudice to the aforesaid, the petitioner has stated that 

even otherwise the respondent is neither the author nor the 

executant of the documents and has now left with no way to prove 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 8/18 9 the same before the court in accordance with law. The petitioner 

has further stated that even otherwise some of the photographs 

sought to be filed on record by way of instant application are not 

genuine and are morphed. The petitioner has further taken a 

stand that in any case, the WS was filed by the respondent as early 

as 24.10.2007 and as per provisions of law, all the documents 

should have been filed the same alongwith his Written Statement. 

The petitioner has finally stated that the issues have been framed in 

the instant matter on 24.10.2010 whereafter which about 10 

opportunities have been taken by the respondent to cross­examine 

the witness and even after completion of petitioner evidence, the 

respondent has filed her affidavit by way of evidence on record but 

has failed to make a prayer on record for filing such documents. 

The petitioner has further stated that even otherwise these 

documents are no way germane for decision of merits of the case 

and the application has been moved only for the purpose of 

procrastination of the trial involving the petitioner which is more 

than 70 years of age. The petitioner has sought dismissal of the 

application with exemplary costs. 11. Order VIII Rule 1A CPC was brought in by the 

Legislature by way of CPC (Amendment Act,) 1999 (W.e.f. 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 9/18 10 01.02.2002). The very scheme of the aforesaid rule casts a duty on 

the defendant to produce the documents which he bases his 

defence ( or claim for set off or counter claim) at the time of filing 

the WS after preparing a list thereof. The defendant as per the 

provision is also obliged to supply the copy thereof to the plaintiff. 

Sub Rule (2) provides, in an eventuality when the documents are 

not in power or possession of the defendant, the defendant is 

required to state in whose possession or power the documents are. 

Sub rule (3) of Rule 1A provides an enabling provision, that in case 

the documents sought to be produced by rule 1 are not produced 

or filed before the court at the time of WS, the same cannot be filed 

except with the permission of the Court. Finally, it provides for a 

consequence that in case the documents are not produced, the 

same shall not be received in evidence the defendant. Sub Rule 4 

lays down certain exceptions to the aforesaid rule. 12. A very reading of the aforesaid provisions show that the 

respondent is required to be clear and categoric about the defence 

and must enter all the documents in support of his defence in a 

list and file such documents on record with the WS. The very fact 

the rule also stipulates an eventuality, when the document not in 

possession or power with the defendants makes it obligatory for the 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 10/18 11 defendant to clearly state as to in whose power or possession the 

documents are. It means that there should be clear pleadings of 

defence by the respondent before a document can be filed or 

entered into the record. The enabling provision in Sub Rule (3) 

provides in continuity a procedure for entering such documents 

which means that not only the defence should be raised upon 

these documents but also the documents sought to be entered are 

relevant to the defence raised for deciding controversy in issue. 13. Ld. Counsel for the applicant/respondent has 

vehemently argued that in view of para No.7 and 15 of the petition 

where allegations are made against the respondents regarding extra 

marital affairs, bigamous marriage with Mr. Kai Louis Boccagna 

and the allegations of smuggling of gold the documents which 

includes certain photographs in compromising position with 

certain ladies and certain letters written by certain ladies to the 

petitioner are important to show that the conduct of the petitioner 

are not upto the mark to the extent of showing that he was celibate 

at the time of marriage and was also having extra marital affairs 

including physical relationship with other women and as such the 

same shall become relevant and important to show that no fraud 

was played upon him by the respondent at any time. Ld. Counsel 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 11/18 12 for respondent/applicant has further strenuously argued that a 

fraud can be played upon a person in respect of certain facts the 

knowledge of which has been withheld and for a petition for 

annulment of marriage on the ground of fraud, these documents 

become important to show that the conduct of the petitioner was 

equally adulterous and no fraud was ever played upon by the 

respondent. Ld. Counsel for the respondent/applicant has finally 

argued that even copies of some of these documents have been 

filed alongwith the application u/s 26 of Hindu Marriage Act ,. 14. All these contentions have been vehemently refused by 

the Ld. Counsel for the petitioner who has stated that neither 

these documents are relevant nor there are any pleadings to this 

effect and has even gone to the extent was that some of these 

documents was morphed and fabricated. Without generality of the 

aforesaid, Ld. Counsel for the petitioner has stated that the 

applicant is neither author nor the executant /receiver of these 

documents and the same cannot be proved by her in evidence 

otherwise. The court shall consider these aspect one by one. 15. First and foremost, it is to be kept in mind that for the 

purpose of filing any documents subsequent to filing of pleadings 

leave of the court is must and it has been settled preposition of law 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 12/18 13 for such documents to be placed on record 3 factors must be 

established. It may be seen that all thorough the application, the reasons for 

filing the documents are being mentioned but the reasons for their 

non­filing in time or at the stage of pleadings had not been shown 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 14/18 15 or even mentioned. It is interesting to point out that during the 

course of arguments Ld. Counsel Shri Sidharth Aggarwal has stated 

that these documents were found in a trunk which was found by 

the respondent in 2006 and was not in possession of the 

respondent earlier. This also needs to be examined. It may be seen 

that the present petition was filed on 17.07.2007 and the first 

written statement of defence was filed by the respondent on 

31.10.2007 i.e. much beyond the time when the respondent was 

admittedly having possession of this documents. It is interesting 

to point out that the issues in this matter were framed in 2010 and 

the petitioner evidence was recorded in the year 2011. These 

documents are best could have been confronted to the petitioner 

during the course of his evidence and not otherwise. The 

respondent kept mum for almost about 6 years and suddenly at 

the stage of Respondent Evidence for the first time came out with 

these documents showing the relevancy there of. The same 

cannot be accepted as a matter of fact. It is a settled preposition of 

law that a party should not be met by surprise, by the other side. Our own Hon'ble High Court in 158 (2009) DLT 670 titled Asia 

Pacific Breweries Vs. Superior Industries has held that the 

documents are required to be filed at the stage of pleadings and 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 15/18 16 sole purpose of provision provided in CPC shall be defeated if 

majority of the documents are withheld by either party and 

documents are sought to be sneaked into at the time of evidence. 

Hon'ble High has further held that if new documents are filed by 

one party at the stage of evidence then a denovo trial shall begin. 

Since in such a case the other party is also required to be given a 

chance to file documents in rebuttal and lead evidence. Similarly 

voices were echoed in judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in 2010 (8) 

SCC 423 titled Shalimar Chemical Works Ltd. Vs. Surendra Oil 

and Dal Mills . 18. Further more it may be seen that the documents 

which sought to be brought on record by way of instant application 

are all personal/private documents and none of these are public 

documents or documents in power or possession of public 

authorities. It is settled preposition of law laid down in 149 (2008) 

DLT 260 titled FATS INC Vs. Zen Technologies Ltd. that it is a 

mandatory for parties to file all the documents aloangwith their 

pleading so that both the parties know about each other's case and 

a party cannot be allowed to file additional document unless it 

shows that these documents were not within its power or control. Admittedly none of these factors have been shown by the 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 16/18 17 respondent/applicant in the instant case. 19. Before parting with the application, it would be 

pertinent to deal that the stand taken by the Ld. Counsel for the 

respondent that copies of certain documents were filed alongwith 

the application u/s 26 of Hindu Marriage Act which was filed 

alongwith the earlier divorce petition. Ld. Counsel for petitioner 

has vehemently argued that by its very nature the petition u/s 26 of MHA is a separate petition and the documents filed therein 

cannot be considered for the purpose of present petition and even 

an appeal is provided against the application u/s 26 of Act. Even in 

this regard it may be seen that petition u/s 26 of HMA is of the 

nature of interlocutory application to the main petition and the 

documents can be filed alongwith the aforesaid petition. However, 

for making these documents a part of record for the purpose of 

consideration in evidence again u/o VII Rule 14 Sub Rule (3) leave 

of the court is required which has not been done in this case. Be 

that as it may. The relevance of these documents has already been 

discussed in the preceding paragraphs. 20. Finally it is also pertinent to point out that the 

documents which are basically photographs with other women 

and certain letters written by certain other people to the petitioner. 

HMA No. : 05/10/07 Monmohan Kohli Vs. Natasha Kohli 17/18 18 None of these documents are being authored or executed by the 

respondent/applicant and it is not understandable to the court as 

to how they can be proved now at the stage of Respondent 

Evidence by her through her affidavit when the matter has almost 

reached at the stage of finality and at this ground also the 

application of the respondent/applicant merits dismissal. 21. In view of the aforesaid discussion and findings, 

the court is of the considered opinion that the application u/o VIII 

rule 1A of the applicant/respondent is nothing but a gross of abuse 

of process of law intended to procastinate the trial involving senior 

citizen of more than 70 years of age. The same is devoid any merits 

and the same is accordingly dismissed with costs of Rs.2,000/­ out 

of which Rs.1000/­ to be deposited in Delhi Legal Aid.