Sixteenth Loksabha 

 

 

 
 

 an> Tilte : Issue regarding alleged leakage of Data of making AADHAR Card personal data public. SHRI K.C. VENUGOPAL ( ALAPPUZHA ): Madam, this is one of the important issues and we have moved an Adjournment Motion also. In a bizarre incident, the TRAI Chairman had put out a challenge by making his AADHAR Card public. The hackers are claiming accessing his private information including his phone number, e-mail id etc. This has opened up a serious concern and apprehension among the people regarding the safety and security on the personal information privacy. Similarly, now, the reports have pointed out that the bank details of thousands of citizens in the country have been compromised through fake banking applications. The hackers have leaked the bank account details through the fake applications of banks like ICICI, HDFC, RBL, etc. It has been reported that the required details for financial transactions, like Card Number, CVV Number, Expiry date, Login Username and Password were available in public. This is a great threat to the financial security and privacy of the citizens in the country. After putting his number public, users on Twitter were able to dig up the TRAI Chairman’s mobile number(s), Gmail and Yahoo addresses, physical address, date of birth and even the frequent flyer number. Multiple bank account numbers have been made public. They have also been able to identify that he uses an iPhone. Madam, ethical hackers claimed to have the bank account details of TRAI Chairman and they posted it on Twitter. Some users also posted screenshots of sending one rupee to his account through Aadhaar-enabled payment service apps. The ability to send money to a person without his consent could expose someone to blackmail, money laundering and other dangers. However, TRAI Chairman has claimed that hackers could not do any harm to him by getting his Aadhaar number and all the information accessed to by hackers was already in public domain. What is clear from this challenge and response is that if the privacy of citizens and their personal information are not secure, it could lead to financial frauds and mental torture. There is a great chance to misuse it if the Aadhaar number got revealed. Already the Supreme Court is looking into the use of Aadhaar number. The common citizen, who does not have more knowledge about technology and authentication, may easily be trapped by revealing his biometric identify number if it is not secured. One could also be monitored and put under surveillance by robbers. So, I request the Government to take immediate steps to stop such leakages, because this has become an era of data leakage. But the Government is keeping silent. Therefore, the Government should come forward and take strong against such misuse of personal data. That is the need of the hour. माननीय अध्यक्ष :