SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: My mom accidentally clicked a fraud bank link. It's so over. What to do with her phone now? 
DATE: 2024-05-01
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ch2get/my_mom_accidentally_clicked_a_fraud_bank_link_its/

--- POST TEXT ---

Last night, after dinner , my mom clicked on a link claiming that her SBI reward points were expiring. That link directed her to the SBI Yono app. It was asking for her Log In credentials and she entered her password there and then she noticed that there was some delay in recieving the OTP so she just casually closed it thinking that she'll check it in the morning. Then she recieved a call from a number that told her to enter her OTP on the app. At that point my mom realised it was a fraud. No SBI agent calls at 10 in the night to ask you to enter an OTP(When checked the number later on TrueCaller , it showed the name as SBI Fraud ). I immediately told her to switch her phone off and remove her SIM cards. Then I went to the bank and checked the mini statement for any transactions and fortunately there weren't any. Then I put her sims in one of my old phones for OTPS and then changed her SBI Yono and Internet Banking passwords. Once I changed them , I tried logging in again but it showed that the password was incorrect and there has been one incorrect attempt before me . (Don't understand how the password is incorrect when I literally changed it rn and recieved a confirmation mail). I then made another intentional wrong attempt and it automatically locked the internet banking from the Banks Side.
I plan on transferring all the money from this bank account to another one and disabling net banking on all my accounts. Will this work? Now I won't sit and pretend to be all tech savy and understand something I don't , but I am afraid to turn my mom's phone on. I have read about how banking trojans can gain access to your phone, clone it and can track your keyboard. My current plan is to switch on my mom's phone tomorrow without connecting it to any kind of internet , copy important data on a remote hard drive that can directly be connected to the phone via a type C cable. I will never plug that hard drive to any kind of device. My mom's phone has a lot of data regarding our legal battles. I will only plug that hard drive onto some computer in some cybercafe only if push comes to shove. I will then reset her phone. Once it is reset , will the phone be virus free and usable or is it forever infected?