In her closing address, Ambassador Latha Reddy shared a list of policy and organisational recommendations for improving cybersecurity in healthcare.

“In our discussion on all the technical and technology related aspects of how we control data, we must not lose sight of the fact that this has very genuine effects on our people, on our citizens, on individuals. We need to focus also on the impact of attacks from a human perspective. It’s not just a technical approach. We need a human approach. The health of every individual is at stake,” Ambassador Latha Reddy, Co-Chair of the Global Commission on the Stability of Cyberspace, said, speaking at MediaNama’s discussion on COVID-19 and Cyberattacks on Healthcare . MediaNama held this discussion on the 28th of July 2021, with support from the CyberPeace Institute and Facebook.

“Unless we take a global international approach towards global healthcare issues, we’re not going to be able to, essentially”, she said. “Could this be rooted in the WHO constitution, as well as other key organisations? Can the UN itself be the forum, or do look at a multi-sectoral fora to be established? Do we use existing international health regulations for underpinning the treaty? These are questions that need to be answered, but until and unless there’s a detailed international discussion, it is not easily possible to come forward with the answers.” Ambassador Reddy said that she was encouraged to see the call by 51 world leaders, calling for more cooperation in healthcare. “25 leaders have specifically written and have called for international cooperation in this area. We may need is an international treaty for dealing with pandemic and other health crisis. I would say that no one is safe until everyone is safe, as has been reiterated often”.

On India’s role in establishing norms related to cyberattacks in healthcare, Ambassador Reddy said that, based on her experience of interacting with the UN in different capacities, “India’s input is always welcome, because we’re seen as a county that can talk to all countries, and can talk to different points of view, without a rigid ideology. We could play a role, because we’re seen as an emerging and advanced country, huge population. Especially as far as cyber issues are concerned, India is seen as a major player because we have one of the largest datasets in the world. India would be listened to, and India’s position would be listened to by others. Once a forum is created, India would certainly be a part of it. India has been very active, in the Open Ended Working Group in the UN. We’ve worked closely with the World Health Organisation on immunisation programs. I don’t see any reason why India shouldn’t be active internationally, or in creating some kind of consensus on healthcare protection.

In her closing address, Ambassador Reddy, who was previously the Deputy National Security Advisor for India, shared a list of recommendations for improving cybersecurity in healthcare:

1. Policy recommendations:

2. Organisational recommendations:

3. Other recommendations:

Have something to add? Subscribe to MediaNama and post your comment

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event