1. The petitioner seeks grant of regular bail in respect of a case registered

 against him vide FIR No. 229 dated 19.11.2020 at Police Station Ding,

 District Sirsa under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471/120-B of Indian Penal

 Code, wherein offence under Section 66-D of Information Technology Act,

 2008 was added later on. 2. The FIR in question was lodged at the instance of SI Rajpal, wherein it is

 alleged that on 19.11.2020 when he alongwith other police officials were

 patrolling near Village Sherpura, then a secret informer informed that Sanjay

 Son of Dharambir, Ajay Kumar, Govind Singh, Vikas, Sanjay Son of Pritam,

 Darshan and Harsh used to purchase activated SIMs of different companies

 on the basis of forged documents in huge numbers and used to insert the

 same in different mobiles phones and laptops and caused financial losses to

 various companies in an illegal manner. The information was further to the

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-12-2021 21:31:21 ::: 2 CRM-M-5579-2021 (O&M)

 effect that the said persons at the given point of time were present at

 Sherpura Bus Stand. Pursuant to receipt of said information, a raid was

 conducted at the bus stand, where the aforesaid 7 persons were apprehended

 and their search led to recovery of mobile phones and a large number of

 SIMs from each of them. From one of the accused as many as 49 SIMs were

 recovered while from others 28 and 30 SIMs were recovered. Upon being

 questioned the said persons could not produce any document pertaining to

 ownership of the recovered mobile phones or SIMs. It is further the case of

 prosecution that during the course of interrogation some of the accused

 made disclosure statements including Sanjay Son of Pritam. In his disclosure

 statement, Sanjay disclosed that a scheme had been floated by 'Dhani App'

 as per which upon deposit of `10,000/-, an amount of `100/- was given as

 cashback/bonus and that one person could avail of such scheme only twice a

 month. Sanjay stated that in order to avail of said cashback/bonus, they made

 transactions through fake SIMs and fake e-mail IDs and used to fleece the

 companies. He further disclosed that in order to avoid detection of their

 identity they used to get the 'root' of the mobile phones done, which was

 being got done through Vikramjit Singh from his shop situated at Ding

 Road, District Sirsa, who used to charge `800/- per mobile phone. 3. The learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner is

 nowhere named in the FIR and is sought to be nominated on the basis of a

 disclosure statement made by co-accused, the authenticity and veracity of

 which would be debatable. Learned counsel has further submitted that, in

 any case, even as per the said disclosure statement, the petitioner cannot be

 said to be the beneficiary of the amounts siphoned off from various

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-12-2021 21:31:22 ::: 3 CRM-M-5579-2021 (O&M)

 companies. It has further been submitted that the petitioner, in any case,

 deserves the concession of bail on ground of parity since all other co-

 accused are on bail/interim bail. 4. The learned State counsel, while opposing the petition, has submitted that

 since it is with the help of the petitioner that the co-accused were able to

 commit the fraud in question and to cause huge loss running in crores to

 various companies including Dhani App, Amazon and PayZapp, his

 complicity in the entire scam is clearly evident and, as such, he does not

 deserve the concession of bail. Learned State counsel has, however,

 informed that the petitioner as on date has been behind bars since the last

 about 1 year and all other co-accused are on bail. It has been informed that

 challan already stands presented and that as many as 36 PWs have been cited

 by the prosecution. 5. I have considered rival submissions addressed before this Court. 6. Having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the fact that the

 petitioner is not named in the FIR and that his name surfaced during the

 course of interrogation on the basis of disclosure statement of co-accused

 and that the petitioner has been behind bars for a substantial period of about

 1 year and while also noticing that co-accused have already been granted

 regular/interim bail by this Court, further detention of the petitioner will not

 serve any useful purpose as the conclusion of trial will take some time. 7. The petition, as such, is accepted and the petitioner is ordered to be released

 on regular bail on his furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the satisfaction

 of learned Trial Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty Magistrate concerned. 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 14-12-2021 21:31:22 ::: 4 CRM-M-5579-2021 (O&M) 8. It is, however, clarified that none of the observations made above shall be

 taken to be an expression on merits of the main case.