Justice Syed Rafat Alam: Award costs of the proceedings and
Pass any other order/direction which this Honble Tribunal deem fit and proper in favour of the applicant and against the respondents in the facts and circumstances of the case. 2.	The case of the applicant, in brief, is that she belongs to ST category i.e. Sonkatkari Tribe. She had been adopted by her fathers friend Sh.Mahavir Prasad Verma, who was Sunar by caste. It is averred by the applicant that inadvertently her caste was recorded as Sunar in School and College. She applied for her Domicile Certificate and Caste Certificate from Jhunjhunu and was granted the same in the year 1979 by S.D.M., Jhunjhunu after verification by the Revenue Functionaries certifying that she belongs to Sonkatkari Tribe. In 1980, the applicant was appointed by the Postal & Telegraph Department against a vacancy reserved for ST following verification of caste certificate in due process. In 1982, her caste/ST Certificate was also verified by D.E.T., Ambala Cantt where she joined as Telephone Assistant after resigning from Postal Department, and also at the time of her confirmation and grant of EB increment in the year 1983. It was on the basis of this caste/ST certificate that in 1987, she was admitted to the Government B.Ed College, Chandigarh and thereafter was appointed as PGT in the year 1989 in Delhi Government. Her caste/ST Certificate underwent due verification at the time of her confirmation and grant of EB increment in 1991 and further when she was appointed as Principal through Union Public Service Commission in 1998 and also at the time of her confirmation in the same post in 2000 followed by yet another verification at the level of crossing of EB as Principal. It is the case of the applicant that in this due process of verification of her caste/ST certificate, which stood scrutiny there had not been even an iota of doubt regarding the genuineness of the same. The applicant further contended that she got married to one Sh. Tarsem Lal Verma, who also belongs to Sonkatkari Tribe in accordance with the Tribal Rites and he is in Government service. Her Caste/ST certificate continues to be valid till date and has not been rescined. The applicant alleges that this position was unsettled on account of the personal animus harboured by one N.K. Pathak, Dy. Superintendent of Police (DSP for short) in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI for short), who has got a false criminal case instituted against her on the allegation that she belongs to Sunar caste and has fraudulently obtained a false caste/ST certificate. The Department has also initiated departmental proceeding against her vide the impugned communication alleging that she has similarly fraudulently obtained a false Domicile Certificate from SDM, Jhunjhunu whereas she is a resident of Bullandshahr in Uttar Pradesh. The list of documents enclosed to the charge-sheet is only a sub-set of the papers relied upon in the criminal case. Shri N.K. Pathak, DSP in CBI, who figures as PW-149 in the criminal case, is also listed as the sole witness in the departmental proceeding. 3.	Learned counsel for the applicant submits that despite her having secured a Government job, she continues to adhere to the tribal customs and also named her son as Ishaan Sonkatkari. Sonkatkari is notified in the list of Scheduled Tribes in the State of Rajasthan. Her husband also belongs to Rajasthan and has got his ancestral lands in Pilani. Learned counsel for the applicant has vehemently asserted that the departmental proceeding initiated against the applicant is outright illegal in view of the judgment of Honble Supreme Court in the matter of Kumari Madhuri Patil and Another versus Additional Commissioner Tribal Development and Others [AIR 1995 (SC) 94] and a catena of decisions which are being followed since then. Hence, the applicant has sought quashing of the departmental proceeding along with other relief(s) as detailed in paragraph no.1 above. Learned counsel for the applicant has relied upon the following decisions in support of his arguments:- Case of the Respondents: 4.	On the other hand, learned counsel appearing for the respondents vehemently opposed the Application on the ground of principle of constructive res judicata. It is contended that the applicant had earlier approached the Tribunal vide OA No.4009/2012 for quashing of the charge sheet/stay of the departmental proceeding. The Tribunal, while dismissing the OA vide its order dated 03.12.2012, allowed the departmental proceeding to continue along with the criminal case by observing that not only the standard of proof was different but the procedure followed in both the departmental and criminal proceedings were entirely different and, therefore, no prejudice would be caused if both proceeds simultaneously. Learned counsel for the respondents has placed reliance on the decision of Honble Supreme Court rendered in Regional Manager, Central Bank of India versus Madhulika Guruprasad Dahir & Ors. [2008(13) SCC 170] wherein the Supreme Court relying on the judgment in Kumari Madhuri Patil and Another versus Additional Commissioner Tribal Development and Others (supra) held that once the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee holds that the caste certificate was obtained by deceitful mean, the appointing authority should cancel the appointment without any further notice. The respondents have further relied upon the case of Ram Chandra Singh Versus Savitri Devi [(2003)-8-SCC-319] wherein it has been held that any affair tainted with fraud could not be perpetuated or saved by application of any equitable doctrine. Learned counsel for the respondents has strongly emphasized that a criminal case was also pending in the Tis Hazari Court vide CBI/RC/DST/2007/S/0004 dated 29.06.2007 where the applicant had been seeking adjournments to delay the proceedings on one pretext or the other. So much so, she did not even cross-examine the sole witness, namely, N.K. Pathak thereby indicating that she has no defence. The applicant also moved the Honble High Court of Delhi in CRL.MC No.2956/2011 and CRL.MC No.2957/2011 for cancellation of charge-sheet in the criminal case wherein the Honble High Court, relying upon a series of judgments, declined to interfere with the criminal case. Learned counsel for the respondents strongly urged that the case of the applicant deserves no leniency in view of the enormity of the act and, therefore, the Original Application should be dismissed. In support of his submissions, learned counsel has cited the following decisions:- 5.	We have considered the submissions made on both sides and also perused the pleadings and the documents on record filed by the parties and are of the view that in the facts of the case and keeping in view the contentions raised before us, the following questions arise for our consideration:- 6.	The doctrine of res judicata is based on the need of giving finality to judicial decision. It prevents the parties to agitate the same issue again and again, which has already been adjudicated before the same Court. The said doctrine in substance provides that the issue or a point decided and attending finality should not be allowed to be re-opened and re-agitated again and again. To appreciate the Issue No.1 as to whether the OA is hit by the principles of constructive res judicata and, therefore, the instant Application is not maintainable as barred because of the principle of constructive res judicata, it would be useful to have a look of Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 which provides that no Court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue has been directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim litigating under the same title, in a Court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such Court. One of the essential conditions to attract the principle of res judicata is that there must be a formal adjudication between the parties on the issue either directly or substantially involved in a former suit between the same parties and such issue has been heard and finally decided by such Court. However Explanation (IV) to Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, provides that any matter which might and ought to have been made ground of defence or attack in such former suit shall be deemed to have been a matter directly and substantially in issue in such suit. Explanation V provides that any relief claimed in the plaint, which is not expressly granted by the decree, shall, for the purposes of this Section, be deemed to have been refused. Explanation VIII provides that an issue heard and finally decided by a Court of limited jurisdiction, competent to decide such issue, shall operate as res judicata in as subsequent suit, notwithstanding that such Court of limited jurisdiction was not competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised. Section 12 of the said Act disentitles the plaintiff to institute a suit in respect of a matter which directly and substantially has been finally decided by the Court of competent jurisdiction. 7.	In the case in hand, the applicant has challenged the continuance of the departmental proceeding mainly on the ground that no departmental proceeding could be held without obtaining the view of the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee constituted in the light of the judgment rendered in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patils case (supra). In the earlier proceeding (OA No.4009/2012), the applicant challenged the action of the respondents in proceeding with the departmental proceeding during the pendency of criminal proceeding in respect of same charges and, therefore, sought the following reliefs:- 8.	We find that the relief sought by the applicant in OA No.4009/2012 was for issuance of a direction commanding the respondents to keep the departmental proceeding against her in abeyance till the conclusion of the trial of the criminal case. However, in the present Application, the applicant has alleged that the validity of caste certificate issued by the competent authority can only be gone into by the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee of the Government and the Disciplinary Authority cannot assume the jurisdiction of Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee and, therefore, it is contended that the Disciplinary Authority could not have initiated the proceedings under Rule 14 of 1965 Rules until the matter is examined and a finding is recorded by the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee. A perusal of the pleadings of both the Applications i.e. the present one and earlier OA (OA No.4009/2012), it is apparent that the issues involved and the pleadings are quite different. In the former case the principal contention of the applicant was that since the departmental proceeding and the criminal case are based upon identical charges and have the same witness, it would tantamount to continue with the departmental proceeding which would compel the applicant to disclose her defence. In the instant case, as appears from the pleadings, the issue principally debated is different -whether the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee constituted under paragraph 12 of the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil and Another (supra) bestows the sole authority to consider the issue of validity of caste/ST certificate issued or whether it could be adjudicated by different Fora. Here, we find that the two are different questions which have to be answered differently. Hence, despite the fact that there is a commonality in the relief sought, this issue was not directly and substantially decided by the Tribunal in OA No.4009/2012. 9. In Amalgamated Coalfields Ltd. And another vs. Janapada Sabha Chhindwara and others [AIR 1964 SC 1013], the Apex Court having taken note of the fact that validity of the notices based on grounds different and distinct from the grounds raised on the earlier occasion held that the appellants cannot be precluded from raising the new contentions on which their challenge against the validity of notices is based as the same cannot be rejected on the ground of principle of constructive res judicata. Their Lordships further opined that constructive res judicata which is a special and artificial form of res judicata enacted by Section 11 of the Civil Procedure Code should not generally be applied to writ petition filed under Article 32 or Article 226 of the Constitution. In Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal and Others vs. Dossibai N. B. Jeejeebhoy (AIR 1971 SC 2355) the Apex Court while considering the issue of res judicata observed in the bottom of para 13 of the judgment as under:- 10.	Therefore, we are of the view that the scope of both the proceedings being different as the basic issue as to whether the validity of caste certificate can be gone into in a proceeding initiated under Rule 14 of 1965 Rules or not was not the subject matter of dispute, nor the same was addressed or adjudicated upon in the earlier proceeding; but the same being not directly or substantially an issue in the previous Application between the parties, in our view, the present Application cannot be thrown on the ground of the same being barred by the doctrine of constructive res judicata. In the instant OA, we are of the view that new premises have been taken up and new arguments put forth and, therefore, it does not tantamount to a review of the Tribunals order dated 03.12.2012 passed in OA No.4009/2012. The instant OA, being a fresh OA, needs to be decided on its own merit. We do not find any legal impediment in deciding the issue and granting the relief sought in the instant Application. We answer the first question accordingly. Issue Nos.2 & 3. 11.	The Question Nos.2&3 are interlinked and are being dealt with together. This is the substantive issue. Before we may venture into the issue as proper, we have to state very clearly as to who are the Members of the Scheduled Tribe. The Preamble to our Constitution promises to secure to every citizen social and economic justice, equality of status and of opportunity assuring the dignity of the individual. According to D.W. Mazumdar, as stated in his work "Races and Cultures of India", which deals with tribal Organizations, "A tribe is a collection of families bearing a common name, speaking a common dialect occupying or professing to occupy a common territory and is not usually endogamous though originally it might have been so". In other words, they are inhabitants of intractable terrain regions of the country kept away from the main stream of national life, and with their traditional moorings and customary beliefs and practices, they are largely governed by their own set of customary laws regulated from time to time with their own rich cultural heritage, mode of worship and cultural ethos. They are as good as the citizens of India as any other. The Constitution guarantees them equality before law and the equal protection of law. Although Articles 14 and 15(1) prohibit discrimination among citizens on certain grounds, yet Article 15(4) empowers the State to make special provisions for advancement of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Article 16(1) requires equality of opportunity to all citizens in matters of appointments to an office or a post under the Union or a State Govt. or Pubic Undertakings etc. Article 16(4) , contradictory to the general provisions of equality of opportunity, again empowers the State to make provisions for reservation in appointments or posts in favour of classes of citizens not adequately represented in the services under the State. Article 46 directs the State to promote the educational or economic interest of the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes with special care and to protect them from social injustice and all other forms of exploitation. Reservation in admission to educational institutions and employment are major State policies to accord to the Tribes, social and economic justice apart from economic measures. Hence, a number of seats/vacancies have been earmarked to be filled up only from amongst them. Articles 342 of the Constitution provides that the President may, after consultation with the Governor of a State, by public notification, specify the Tribes or Tribal Communities, which shall be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes in relation to that State and/or Union Territories, as the case may be. Under Article 342(2) , this Presidential order has a quality of finality attached to it. It also flows out of this Article that some communities may be Tribes in one State while they may not be so in other depending upon the Presidential order. Since most of the tribes are patriarchal and matriarchal in character, though they may be endogamous or exogamous, the acquisition of membership of the tribe is difficult, if not impossible, for other males wife family, it could be through process of marriage accompanied by adoption by the Society [N.E. Horo versus Jahan Ara Jaipal Singhs case (supra]. 12.	However, it is this set of benefits that render the tribal identity prone to theft and misappropriation. There have been number of instances where unscrupulous persons have come forward to obtain benefits of such reservation by posing themselves as members of the ST to the deprivation of a genuine member of the ST who would have otherwise filled the place. Honble Apex Court has taken increasingly stringent steps against such theft of identity. It is also equally considered that the tribal societies have not remained in a frozen state and that extension of these facilities are also subject to same process of changes in their social and economic status. In fact, changes in the tribal societies are more apparent on account of operation of the process of Sanskritization, globalization and participation in the large labour market of the country. 13.	However, it is to be noted here that despite all these changes occurring, the tribal societies still continue to retain their core characteristics in the shape of faith in their Gods, mode of worships, their birth and death rituals and their marriage rites. It is just possible that some of the customs related to burial in Hargadi or Masna may have to be discontinued on account of their physical distances involved. Honble Supreme Court in Kumari Madhuri Patils case (supra) has observed as under:- 14. In case of Collector, Bilaspur versus Ajit P.K. Jogi and Others [(2011)-10-SCC-357], the matter under consideration was that whether the findings given in respect of ST status of the applicant Ajit P.K. Jogi was valid in the light of Kumari Madhuri Patils case (supra) or not. The applicant had claimed that he belonged to Kanwar community which is a notified ST and had obtained a social status/caste certificate from time to time to this effect from the Collector, Bilaspur and other officers. In the year 2011, a complaint was filed before the National Commission for SCs/STs alleging that he was Christian and that he did not belong to ST, and had obtained several false caste certificates showing him to be belonging to Kanwar ST and had contested election from a Constituency reserved for STs. The Commission initially entrusted the enquiry to the State Government. However, when the Commission reached the conclusion that the State Government was unnecessarily dragging its feet over the matter, it asked its Unit at Bhopal to ascertain the correct position. Accordingly, Bhopal Unit had collected some material to show that the applicant belongs to Satnami caste (backward class) and that he did not belong to Kanwar ST and that he has got himself elected as Member of Legislative Assembly from a Constituency reserved for STs on the basis of a false caste certificate. After having given opportunity to the respondents i.e. National Commission for SCs/STs, Honble Supreme Court held the allegations true and directed the State Government to conduct the verification of the genuineness of the ST certificate submitted by the applicant Ajit P.K. Jogi and to initiate urgent necessary action for cancellation of his ST certificate and also criminal action due under law. One of the issues remained was that whether the Commission had the jurisdiction to entertain the complaint about the genuineness of the caste certificate of an individual and pronounce upon the validity of the caste certificate and the caste status of such person. Honble Supreme Court drew a parallel view with the case of Bhabani Prasad Jena v. Orissa State Commission for Women [(2010)-8-SCC-633] wherein it was held that the State Commission is not a Tribunal discharging the functions of judicial character or a court. Relevant part of the judgment reads thus:- 15.	The above cited judgments clearly go to prove that the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee constituted under the order of the Honble Supreme Court is the highest and the sole Authority to verify the genuineness of the claims/counter claims relating to issue of social status certificate including the ST certificate. This issue thus is no more res integra and is concluded by the judgment of the Apex Court rendered in Kumari Madhuri Patils case (supra). Issue No.4 16.	This issue raises a query that whether in departmental proceedings, order of dismissal/removal from service of an employee appointed on the basis of false/bogus caste certificate is sustainable or not. The instant issue too has been partly answered in relation to the previous issues. Once we have already deemed that the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee constituted under Kumari Madhuri Patils case (supra) is the highest and the sole authority to decide the genuineness of the caste certificate, it would straightaway imply that none other authority has the competence to decide the genuineness of the caste certificate which even includes the departmental authority. Had it been the case otherwise that the departmental authorities would competent to hold proceeding under CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, it would become authority parallel to the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee in its derogation. This is not permitted under the terms of paragraph 12 of the judgment in Kumari Madhuri Patils case. Hence, any finding given relating to the social status certificate would again be subject to verification. Honble Supreme Court has consistently held this position in its various judgments including the one in Collector, Bilaspur versus Ajit P.K. Jogi (supra). Therefore, in view of the enunciation of law by the Apex Court in the aforesaid judgments, we hold that the departmental proceeding initiated against the applicant cannot proceed. Issue No.5 17.	Under this issue, we examine the fact that whether the applicant, who got the false certificate issued in 1979, was appointed on the basis of said certificate and soon thereafter has continued to earn promotions on its basis shall be allowed to walk away with the fruits of her caste certificate in case it is turned out to be false. The fact as it is stands is that till today the caste certificate has not been rescinded. We are also quite conscious of the fact that the entire exercise in Kumari Madhuri Patils case has stemmed from a deep concern of the Honble Supreme Court regarding usurpation of the rights of the members of the STs for admission to educational institutions and for appointment against the quota reserved for them. In fact, the Honble Supreme Court in the said case has clearly held in para 15 as under:- 18.	Therefore, in view of the enunciation of law by the Apex Court in Kumari Madhuri Patil and Another versus Additional Commissioner Tribal Development and Others ( supra) and R. Vishwanatha Pillai versus State of Kerala and 	Others and Vimal Ghosh versus State of Kerala and Others (supra), we are of the view that in respect of the alleged charges the departmental proceeding cannot be allowed to continue and the Application deserves to be allowed. 19.	In the result, the Application succeeds and is allowed with the following directions:- Both the applicant and respondents shall extend all possible cooperation in the matter of enquiry before the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee. It is further provided that after receipt of the report from the Caste Certificate Scrutiny Committee, the Respondent No.2, Director of Education shall proceed in accordance with law as enunciated in Kumari Madhuri Patils case (supra) and R. Vishvanatha Pillai (supra). 20.	With the above directions/orders, the Original Application stands finally disposed of, but without costs.