Heard both sides. The petitioners seek bail in Special case No. 11 of Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 2/15 2017, arising out of Agamkuan P.S. case No. 44 of 2017, under Section 419 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 34 of the Indian Penal Code.

 Later on Section 66 (D) of the Information Technology Act and Sections 7 / 8 / 9 / 13(1) (a) (b) (e) read with Section 13(2) of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 were added. The informant, S.I. of Agamkuan P.S., alleged that he

 got information that Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha, who

 were residing in the house of Late Pappu Singh, S/o Dinanath

 Singh, situated in Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, Kanti Factory Road,

 were cheating and circulating question papers and answer sheets

 of the examination being held by the Bihar Staff Selection

 Commission (hereinafter referred to as the BSSC) for appointment

 on the different posts in different departments of Government of

 Bihar. The informant, after performing formalities, proceeded to

 raid the room occupied by Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha.

 Three persons, namely, Pawan Kumar, Bipin Kumar, petitioner of

 Cr. Misc. No. 21097 of 2017, and Navneet Kumar were found

 inside the room and they were apprehended. They disclosed the

 name of Atul Ranjan Sinha, Gorelal @ Kaushik and Bhola @

 Nitesh and others who are involved in the racket in leaking of

 question papers and transmitting the answers to the examinees,

 after taking hefty amount from them. From the aforesaid room Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 3/15 admits cards, battery of bluetooth, bluetooth, printer, laptop,

 original marks sheets and other articles were recovered. Mr. Y. V. Giri, the learned senior counsel appearing

 on behalf of the petitioners, Vinit Kumar and Ajay Kumar @ Ajay

 Kashyap, submitted that petitioner Vinit Kumar is director of

 Confisec Pvt. Ltd., having a printing press located at Ahmedabad,

 Gujarat. Ajay Kumar @ Ajay Kashyap is staff of the said

 company. The petitioners do not indulge in leaking question

 papers. The petitioners are Director and staff of a reputed printing

 press which used to print question papers of different

 examinations conducted by different Commissions of different

 States. The duty of the Director of the printing press is to take the

 manuscripts from the Chairman of the Commission and after

 printing the questions send the same to different examination

 centers. There is no material in the entire case diary that the

 questions papers were leaked at the level of the printing press. It is submitted that name of the petitioners, Director

 and staff of the printing press, figured in the case during the course

 of investigation. Sri Sudhir Kumar, the Chairman of the

 Commission, was interrogated and he explained the entire

 procedure of examination including printing of question papers.

 Sri Sudhir Kumar only disclosed the name of printing press. The Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 4/15 entire questionnaire and answer by Sri Sudhir Kumar does not

 disclose any role played by the printing press in leaking the

 question papers. It is further submitted that during the course of

 investigation the I.O. took the statement of Prashant Kumar and

 Raj Kumar Sharma, who were said to have disclosed that they

 received answers on whats app on 29.01.2017 with regard to the

 examination to be held on 05.02.2017. The prosecution has not

 brought on record any fact that from which mobile the examinees

 got whats app message on their mobile phones. The duty of the

 printing press is to deliver the question papers to nodal officer at

 the district level and the same were kept in district treasury. The

 sealed boxes containing question papers are to be opened at the

 examination centers five minutes before scheduled time of

 beginning of examination. It is further submitted that the Chairman of the BSSC

 is to send the manuscripts of questions in a sealed cover to the

 printing press after getting the questions from the setters. It is

 submitted that Ashish Kumar, Awadhesh Kumar, Arun Kumar and

 Smt. Manju Kumari are close relatives of Sri Sudhir Kumar,

 Chairman of the BSSC. They were examined by the I.O. but they

 did not disclose any facts showing the involvement of the Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 5/15 petitioners, Vinit Kumar and Ajay Kumar @ Ajay Kashyap. The

 petitioner, Vinit Kumar, was arrested and he disclosed that

 question papers of the examination to be held on 29.01.2017 were

 dispatched on 21.01.2017, which were received by the department

 on 26/27.02.2017. Similarly, question papers of examination to be

 held on 05.02.2017 were dispatched on 28.01.2017 and the same

 were received by the authorized persons on 02/03.02.2017. There

 is no material on record to show that the question papers were

 leaked from the custody of printing press. It is further submitted that in paragraphs 234, 235,

 236 at pages 451 to 453 of case diary, on which the prosecution

 relied, the petitioner, Vinit Kumar, had talked with Amanpreet

 Singh Barar, who was to supply the OMR. Amanpreet Singh Barar

 used to supply OMR sheets to the company of Vinit Kumar not

 only for the examination in question but for many other

 examinations conducted all over the country and mere talking on

 telephone with Amanpreet Singh Barar does not show that

 manuscript of the question papers or question papers were leaked

 to the examinees or to any person at any point of time by the

 petitioners and on these facts the accusation against the petitioners

 is not substantiated by any facts. It is further submitted that answer sheets received on Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 6/15 different whats app tallied with the question papers but this fact

 also does not show involvement of the petitioners as answer sheets

 are kept in the safe custody of the Chairman of the BSSC and the

 concerned printing press does not print the answer sheets of any

 examination. The Chairman is to get the questions set from any

 person and also to get the answer sheets of the questions, which

 were used by the evaluator. It is submitted that no offence under

 Section 419 or any other Sections of the IPC is made out against

 the petitioners. Mr. Arun Kumar, the learned counsel appearing for

 the petitioner Bipin Kumar of Cr. Misc. No. 21097 of 2017,

 submits that petitioner was, of course, apprehended with Pawan

 Kumar and Navneet Kumar but nothing has been recovered from

 the possession of the petitioner. The petitioner is brother-in-law

 (sister's husband) of Pawan Kumar and for some work the

 petitioner simply delivered the electronic articles to Pawan Kumar.

 The petitioner also made statement to this effect. Even if the entire

 evidence and the materials collected during the course of

 investigation are taken on its face value, the petitioner is a worker

 and for that the petitioner is in jail for more than four months. The

 petitioner did not leak the question papers nor delivered the

 answer sheets to any person or examinee. It is further submitted Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 7/15 that mobile of the petitioner was also seized but it has not been

 found that from the mobile of the petitioner any whats app

 message was sent to any examinee. Hence, the petitioner may be

 enlarged on bail. On the other hand, Sri Ajay Mishra, the learned

 counsel for the State (S.I.T.) submits that Bipin Kumar was

 apprehended along with Pawan Kumar and Navneet Kumar in the

 house of late Pappu Singh. Pawan Kumar and Atul Ranjan had

 taken the house on rent. During the course of investigation, it has

 come that Bipin Kumar is also involved in leaking the question

 papers and transmitting the answers of the question papers to

 different examinees at different examination centers electronically.

 The petitioner used to fit bluetooth in the under garments of the

 examinees. It is further submitted that it has come during the

 course of investigation from the disclosure made by other accused

 persons including the staff of the BSSC such as Avinash Kumar,

 the Data Entry Operation, Niti Ranjan Pratap, the I. T. Manager,

 that Bipin Kumar, the petitioner of Cr. Misc. No. 21097 of 2017,

 is also a member of the gang which indulges in getting the

 questions leaked out and sending the answer sheets to the

 examinees of different centers who had paid money to the gang.

 The learned counsel for the State referred to different paragraphs Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 8/15 of the case diary and the evidence coming after examination of

 their mobiles, SIM cards from Forensic Science Laboratory that

 all the members of the gang were well knit and had talked with

 each other immediately before the examination. It is further

 submitted that question papers were leaked by the gang in

 collusion with staff of the BSSC, Secretary, and Chairman of the

 BSSC. It has also come that Chairman of the BSSC himself left

 the question papers and the answer sheets at his parental house

 from where his nephew and brother got and circulated the same to

 many candidates. The printer and its staff, namely, Vinit Kumar

 and Ajay Kumar @ Ajay Kashyap, petitioners of Cr. Misc. No.

 20500 of 2017, and OMR supplier Amanpreet Singh Barar are

 also involved. There was no agreement for printing of the question

 papers and supply of OMR sheets and at no level secrecy was

 maintained. From the interrogation of Sudhir Kumar, the

 Chairman of BSSC, it would appear that he disclosed that one Das

 Gupta of I.I.T., Delhi set the question papers but the I.O. found

 only one Tapan Das Gupta working as Assistant Professor in the

 department of Mechanical Engineering, I.I.T., Delhi and he issued

 letter to this effect to the I.O. that he did not set any question

 papers of BSSC for appointment on any post. The secrecy for

 setting questions and keeping manuscripts in sealed cover has not Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 9/15 been maintained. Manuscripts were sent through different persons

 to the printing press. The Chairman disclosed that Ajay Kumar @

 Ajay Kashyap carried the manuscripts but it has come during the

 course of investigation that wife of Vinit Kumar received

 manuscripts. Amanpreet Singh Barar had talks with the Chairman

 and the printing press continuously. Niti Ranjan, the I.T. Manager

 of BSSC, has very categorically stated that Amanpreet Singh

 Barar and Director of printing press are also involved in leaking

 the question papers. Hence, the petitioners do not deserve bail. Perused the records and the case diary. The informant got information that Pawan Kumar

 and Atul Ranjan Sinha were distributing the questions and answers

 to the examinees of BSSC. The examination was scheduled to be

 held in four phases. First examination was to be held on

 29.01.2017. Second examination was to be held on 05.02.2017.

 The police on such information raided the rented house of Pawan

 Kumar and Atul Ranjan Sinha and from that house Pawan Kumar,

 Bipin Kumar, the petitioner of Cr. Misc. No. 21097 of 2017, and

 Navneet Kumar were apprehended. The police recovered articles

 such as bluetooth, mobile, question papers, admit cards of

 different candidates etc. Bipin Kumar, who happens to be brother-

 in-law (sister's husband) of Pawan Kumar. Pawan Kumar Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 10/15 disclosed the names of many persons, namely, Kaushal Kishore,

 Rameshwar Kumar and Avinash Kumar. Avinash Kumar is Data

 Entry Operator of BSSC. Pawan Kumar disclosed that Avinash

 Kumar assured him to supply question papers and answer sheets

 and he and his friends used to leak out the question papers and

 used to supply answer sheets through electronic apparatus to

 different candidates who paid them Rs. 5-6 lacs. Pawan Kumar

 very categorically stated that Bipin Kumar is also involved in

 leaking. During the course of investigation Prashant Kumar, Vidya

 Nand Bharti and Sikander came to the I.O. and disclosed that they

 also received whats app message of answer sheets on their mobiles

 with regard to examination to be held on 05.02.2017. During the

 course of investigation, it further transpired that Avinash Kumar,

 the Data Entry Operator of BSSC, and Parmeshwar Ram,

 Secretary of BSSC, are also indulged in leaking the questions for

 illegal gain. Avinash Kumar, the Data Entry Operator, was

 apprehended and he disclosed the entire facts that how the racket

 being carried out. He further disclosed that Bipin Kumar is also

 one of the active members of the gang, which is indulged in

 getting jobs to candidates by supplying answer sheets through

 electronic tools on payment of hefty amounts. Pawan Kumar

 further disclosed that he used two mobiles which were left with Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 11/15 Pratima, wife of Bipin Kumar. Ramesh @ Rameshwar Kumar also

 got whats app message of questions and answer sheets of the

 examination to be held on 05.02.2017. Ramesh @ Rameshwar

 also confessed and many other persons were arrested and their

 mobiles were seized. During the course of investigation, it also

 transpired that Ram Ashish Singh, director of AVN school, and

 his relative Ram Sumer Singh are also involved. They used to

 print out the questions just before the beginning of examination

 and used to send whats app message to different persons of his

 gang. Thereafter, they got whats app messages of answer sheets

 delivered to different candidates. Centre of examination was also

 in the AVN school situated in Rajeev Nagar, Patna. On the basis

 of disclosure made by Ram Ashish Singh and Ram Sumer Singh

 role of Gauri Shanker Singh, Anand Sharma, Om Prakash Gupta

 came to light along with Rishidev Singh, Dinesh Kumar Yadav,

 Atal Bihari Ray and Mukesh Kumar. It further transpired during

 the course of investigation that several candidates got question and

 answer sheets before the scheduled time of examination and the

 role of Sri Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of the BSSC, Parmeshwar

 Ram, Secretary of BSSC, Avinash Kumar, Data Entry Operator

 and Niti Ranjan, I.T. Manger of BSSC was suspected as question

 papers and answer sheets were supplied to the relatives of Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 12/15 Chairman and other officers of BSSC and also to the candidates

 who gave money to them and others for getting appointment on

 different posts. Sri Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of the BSSC, denied to

 have played any role in the scam. He disclosed that questions

 papers are printed by Vinit Kumar, Director of Confisec Pvt. Ltd.

 and Ajay Kumar @ Ajay Kashyap used to carry the manuscripts.

 He disclosed that one Das Gupta, Professor of I.I.T. Delhi, was

 setter of question papers but when it was enquired by the I.O., one

 Tapan Das Gupta was found in I.I.T. Delhi as Assistant Professor

 in Mechanical Engineering but he denied to have set the question

 papers of any examination of BSSC. Amanpreet Singh Barar is the supplier of OMR but it

 transpired that Amanpreet Singh Barar was also evaluator of

 answer sheets. Amanpreet Singh Barar was in regular touch with

 Vinit Kumar, petitioner No.1 of Cr. Misc. No. 20500 of 2017,

 director of printing press. During the course of investigation, Niti

 Ranjan, the I.T. Manager of BSSC disclosed that Vinit Kumar and

 Ajay Kumar @ Ajay Kashyap are in regular touch with each other.

 They are also involved in the scam of leaking question papers for

 the examination to be held for appointment to different posts

 under BSSC. It further transpired that Sri Sudhir Kumar, Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 13/15 Chairman of the BSSC, is also involved in the scam of question

 papers leaking. Thereafter, his brother Prof. Awadhesh Kumar,

 Manju Kumari, wife of Awadhesh Kumar, Ashish and Arun, sons

 of sister of Sudhir Kumar, were arrested and they disclosed that

 Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of the BSSC, had left the question

 papers at his parental house situated at Hazaribagh. Ashish and

 Arun got the answer sheets from Radha Prasad, father of Sudhir

 Kumar. According to Rules of BSSC the Chairman is responsible

 for getting question papers set, answer sheets and get them printed

 and keep secretly. Sri Sudhir Kumar, the Chairman of the BSSC,

 could not be able to disclose that who was the setter of the

 questions of examination. He was always in touch with Vinit

 Kumar, Director of the printing press and Ajay Kumar @ Ajay

 Kashyap. Sudhir Kumar disclosed that Ajay Kumar, staff of Vinit

 Kumar, used to carry the manuscripts but it transpires that

 questions papers and manuscripts were received by wife of Vinit

 Kumar. Amanpreet Singh Barar was only to supply OMR sheets to

 the printing press and he had nothing to do with the printing press

 but it was found that Amanpreet Singh Barar, Vinit Kumar and

 others were in regular touch with the Chairman and the Secretary

 of BSSC. Niti Ranjan, I.T. Manager of BSSC, Vinit Kumar and

 Amanpreet Singh Barar were also in touch with each other and Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 14/15 they are instrumental in getting the questions paper leaked. It appears that a gang of many persons such as Pawan

 Kumar, Bipin Kumar and others, in collusion with the staff of

 BSSC, are indulged in getting the questions papers leaked of

 different examinations to be held for appointment on different

 posts. The members of the gang also got the question papers

 through AVN school with the help of Ram Ashish Singh, Ram

 Sumer Singh and other teachers of the school. The questions

 papers were also leaked at the stage of Chairman of BSSC, who

 made his statement and from perusal of his statement, it appears

 that he was responsible for getting the question papers set. He

 disclosed the name of one Das Gupta, Professor of I.I.T. Delhi,

 setter of the question papers but it transpired that Sri Das Gupta,

 Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, I.I.T. Delhi did

 not set any question paper with regard to BSSC examination.

 Sudhir Kumar did not disclose the name of such person who set

 the question paper. Ashish Kumar and Arun Kumar, nephew

 (sister's son) of Sudhir Kumar, Chairman of the BSSC, also

 appeared at the examination and they also admitted along with

 Awadhesh Kumar that Sudhir Kumar left the question papers at

 the residence of his father so that his relatives got the questions

 papers along with answers. From perusal of the entire case diary, Patna High Court Cr.Misc. No.20500 of 2017 (12) dt.03-07-2017 15/15 the C.D.R. and the report of Forensic Science Laboratory, it

 appears that all the accused persons continuously talked with each

 other before the examination. The Chairman of the BSSC did not

 maintain secrecy in keeping the manuscripts and the answer

 sheets. It appears that manuscripts were sent to the printing press

 through different persons. Even the question paper was set by

 whom has not been disclosed by the Chairman who is solely

 responsible for maintaining secrecy. It has come that Director,

 printing press, and Ajay Kumar @ Ajay Kashyap, staff of the

 printing press, along with other accused persons are also involved

 in leaking question papers of the examination held for

 appointment on different posts in different departments of

 Government of Bihar. It appears that it is a big scam. Considering the facts aforesaid, I am not inclined to

 enlarge the petitioners on bail. Accordingly, the same is rejected. (Prabhat Kumar Jha, J)
BKS/-