The instant Original Application filed under Section 19 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 has generated

more heat than light. It was vehemently argued over a

course of almost four days and has grown alarmingly in

volume. It has also come under judicial scanner of the

Hon'ble High Court on occasions more than one. 2. The applicant, in the instant case, is aggrieved with the

order dated 21.08.2015 transferring her as Scientist-D,

Genetics & Tree Propagation Division, Forest Research

Institute (FRI, for short), Dehradun to Rain Forest Research

Institute (RFRI, for short), Jorhat on administrative grounds.

It has been issued by the Indian Council of Forestry

Research and Education (ICFRE, for short). The applicant

is also aggrieved with the order dated 02.09.2015 relieving

her with effect from the even date to report for duty to the

Director, RFRI, Jorhat signed by Registrar, FRI, Dehradun. 3. The applicant has prayed for the following relief(s)`:- 3 "a) Issue an order setting
 aside/quashing/cancelling/recalling the impugned
 order no. 40-18/2015-ICFRE dated 21.08.2015 of
 ICFRE and Order No. 11-621/2014-Estt-1 dated
 02.09.2015 of the FRI with immediate effect. b) Issue an order setting
 aside/quashing/cancelling/recalling Memos No. 40-
 18/2015-ICFRE dated 31.07.2015 and No.4-37/2010-
 Bhawan dated 06.08.2015; c) Issue an order commanding the Respondent no.2
 to maintain status quo of the applicant as was on
 02.09.2015 in the Division of Genetics & Tree
 Propagation, Forest Research Institute, Dehra Dun
 until this case is finally disposed off; d) Issue an order directing the Chief Vigilance Officer
 of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and
 Climate Charge, New Delhi for initiating disciplinary
 actions under CCS Conduct Rules against the
 Respondents and others involved in causing immense
 sufferings, harassment and pains to applicant and also
 lodging FIR against them under operational Sexual
 Harassment Guidelines issued by Hon'ble Apex Court
 of India; e) Issue an order or directions which this Hon'ble
 Court may deem fit and proper under the
 circumstances and facts of the case; and f) Allow this application with special costs in favour
 of applicant throughout." 4. The case of the applicant, in brief, is that she is

Scientist, who holds Ph.D degree with a specialized master

degree in arid studies from Ben-Gurion University, Israel.

She has authored and co-authored around 50 research

articles published across the globe and has been recipient of

"Mashav Fellowship" from Israel and "United Nations

Development Programs Fellowship". She has participated

several international conferences all over the world with 4 financial support from hosting countries on the basis of her

innovative research outputs. She joined ICFRE as Research

Assistant Grade-I at Arid Forest Research Institute (AFRI, for

short), Jodhpur on 05.12.1990. She was selected and

appointed as Scientist-B and posted at FRI since 05.05.2003

on merit. Subsequently, she was promoted as Scientist-C in

July, 2008 and Scientist-D during July, 2012 on the quality

and quantity of her contribution to Science. Presently, she

is serving ICFRE, Dehradun as Scientist-D. 5. It is the case of the applicant that she has specialized

master degree in arid studies and has developed series of

interspecies Eucalyptus hybrids after intensive 10 years for

the development of agro-forests of the Northern India. Thus,

were she to be transferred out to the Rainforest Research

Institute, Jorhat (RFRI), it would not only be a setback to

her ongoing research endeavours of 10 years but would also

expose her research work to plagiarism and hijacking and

other unethical practice prevailing in the respondent

institution. The applicant claims that the work area of FRI,

Dehradun is Northern India (Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, UP,

Uttarakhand, etc.) which is largely a semi arid tract whereas

RFRI's work area is restricted to rain forests of Northeast

India - an entirely a different agro-ecological zone. The

applicant also claims that in addition, she is also Principal 5 Investigator in developing 100% Neem coated urea besides

co-investigator of genetic improvement of Melia composite.

The applicant has alleged that she has been continuously

harassed by her superiors over the past few years for

reasons not known. She has brought the matter before the

Chairperson of Prevention of Sexual Harassment at

Workplace Committee of ICFRE/FRI on 23.09.2013 with a

request to take disciplinary action against those involved in

harassment under the Sexual Harassment at Workplace

(Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act 2013, including

specific complaints against one A.S. Rawat, Group

Coordinator Research & Head Accounts Office, FRI,

Dehradun. The Chairperson Dr. Neelu Gera vide letter dated

24.10.2013 expressed opinion that the complaints made by

the applicant did not amount to sexual harassment and,

therefore, remained out of purview of the committee. It is

pertinent to point out here that Dr. Neelu Gera, who was

then registered for Ph.D at FRI University headed by the

respondent no.3 as Vice-Chancellor against whom,

complaints were made. The applicant thereafter filed a

complaint to the National Commission for Women on

20.01.2013 making specific charges against the said A.S.

Rawat and one Dr. Paramjeet Singh, the then warden of the

Girls hostel during 2003, seeking independent inquiry into

the matter. This complaint was forwarded to erstwhile 6 Director General (DG) of ICFRE vide Case No.

8/2373/2014/NCW/HK/SJ dated 31.05.2014 directing him

to look into the matter and take action as per Sexual

Harassment at Work Place (Prevention, Prohibition &

Redressal) Act, 2013. The DG, in turn, constituted a inquiry

committee, instead of taking action against the respondent

no.2 - batch mate of the DG. The applicant appeared before

the inquiry committee and submitted her grievances. The

inquiry committee in its interim report dated 31.10.2014,

observed that the harassment made to the applicant was

administrative in nature and did not amount to sexual

harassment. The Committee further found that the

applicant was lacking in giving regard to importance of

verbal communication in organization; instead she has the

habit of exaggerating and complicating the issues by putting

everything in writing and even bringing rather petty matters

under the purview of sexual harassment. The Committee

further held that all the allegations made by the applicant

were examined threadbare and found baseless. The

applicant not satisfied with the report, approached the

Police with a request to lodge FIR against those involved in

her harassment in the light of Sexual Harassment Rules at

Work Place on 12.12.2014. The applicant used RTI to glean

information that FRI University has become a hub for

awarding Ph.D. degrees to IFS officers in gross violation of 7 established norms and governing rules and regulations. She

has cited a particular example of the said Neelu Gera, who

had been awarded Doctorate in December/2013 without

having obtained a "no objection certificate" from her HOD

and without having taken study leave of 10 years after her

registration, instead of 5 permissible. The applicant also

refers to an article published in Tehlka in its issue dated

07.02.2015 which, inter alia, stated that officers had been

granted degrees even before their registration confirmed and

numerous examples of the cases of Ph.D. degree had been

granted in utter violation and disregard of rules. One Dr.

Hilaluddin, husband of the applicant, brought the fake

degree scam into the notice of respondent no.2 on

18.06.2015 and requested him to set up an independent

inquiry into the matter. The said Dr. Hilaluddin also wrote

to the Vigilance Officer of the respondent - Ministry with a

request to initiate disciplinary proceedings against those

officials involved in fraudulent degree scam on 24.06.2015

under intimation to respondent no.1. The respondent no.4,

the applicant alleges, as a retaliatory measure, vide their

order dated 31.07.2015 issued a show cause for violation of

Rule 3 of CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964 by sending e-mails

directly and individually to officers serving in ICFRE without

following the due process of channel and communication

and using derogatory and insulting language against them. 8 Further the applicant questioned the show cause being

issued by the incompetent authority. The applicant pointed

out to irregularities in house allotment. It was in this

backdrop the respondent no.2 transferred the applicant

from FRI, Dehradun to RFRI, Jorhat on administrative

grounds, as a punitive measure. 6. The applicant has adopted almost nine grounds for her

application, which are being listed as below:- Reverting to their commitments, the respondents have

not released the salary of the applicant in spite she has

submitted her sickness certificates issued by AIIMS,

New Delhi and Shujat Hospital, Amroha vide letter

dated 15.12.2015 with a humble request to the

respondent no.2 to release her due salaries of past few

months. The applicant further informed the respondent

no.2 that she is proceeding on child adoption leave and

as per rules, vide letter dated 27.12.2015. The said

letter was supported by copies of legal papers of child

adoption for official record and with a humble reminder

to release due salaries of the applicant for past four

months. Afterwards, she submitted her fitness

certificate vide letter dated 07.01.2016. Yet, her salary

for the period has not been released. 7. The learned counsel for the applicant concluded his

argument that the transfer is calculated to break moral

courage of other women working in ICFRE and elsewhere in

other institutes, to speak up against acts of sexual

harassment and large scale malpractices going on in

research institutions. 8. The respondent nos. 2, 4 and 5 have filed a counter

affidavit rebutting the averment of the applicant, stating that

the applicant has been working as a Scientist in Genetics &

Tree Propagation of Division of FRI Dehra Dun since her

appointment as Scientist D w.e.f. 05.05.2003 and has never

been transferred out of FRI Dehra Dun or to the North East

Region. The Director, RFRI, had requisitioned the services of

four Scientists in the grade of Scientist D to Scientist F to

implement major programmes of research in the region and

there is need for domestication and breeding of a large

number of species of economic importance, systematic

survey for assessment of genetic diversity in those species,

identification of plus trees, establishment of seed orchards

etc.. It was in consideration of the fact that the applicant

has been working as a Scientist since her appointment as

Scientist B w.e.f. 05.05.2003 and has never been transferred

out of FRI Dehra Dun, the Director General, ICFRE, final

authority for deciding the transfer of a Scientist under Rule 12 6 of Transfer Policy, transferred her in the same capacity to

RFRI, Jorhat in larger public interest. Further the

transfer/posting is a regular administrative incidence of

service in the career of a Group A Scientist who carries an

all-India service liability. The respondents also submit that

the applicant has specialization in the area of genetics of

trees, which is equally applicable to all agro-climatic zones.

The respondents have further stated that there are many

Scientists as eminent as or more than the applicant at FRI

Dehradun and her transfer to RFRI, Jorhat will not affect

the ongoing research work. Rebutting the argument of the

applicant that current research in genetics would be

adversely affected by her absence and her research work

would get hijacked, the respondents have stated that all

research and intellectual property generated by scientists,

while in employment of the respondent institution, is

property of the organization. The applicant has completed

all her in-house projects as Principal Investigator as she has

also submitted project completion reports and did not have

any ongoing projects in the capacity of Principal

Investigator. As such, her transfer does not hurt research

work of the organization. The very appointment letter of

scientists contains clause as to their All India Service

liability. There are other instances of scientists working in

FRI Dehra Dun and elsewhere in ICFRE Institutes getting 13 transferred to RFRI, Jorhat, e.g. one S.Gogoi, Research

Officer transferred from Institute of Forest Productivity

Ranchi, A. Deb Barma, Scientist 'B' and Dr. S.C. Bisas,

Scientist 'B' from Tropical Forest Research Institute,

Jabalpur. The respondents have further cited the examples

of one Dr. Paramjit Singh, Scientist 'E' transferred from FRI

Dehra Dun to RFRI, Jorhat and one Dr. Arun Pratap Singh,

Scientist 'E' transferred from FRI Dehra Dun to RFRI,

Jorhat. Hence, transfer of the applicant is a routine

administrative transfer and no rules have been violated or

disregarded while effecting the same. 9. The respondents have further submitted that the

charges of sexual harassment leveled by the applicant at

Workplace had been found to be totally false vide the report

submitted with the covering letter dated 31.10.2014. The

issue of farzi Ph.D. degree and plagiarism raised by the

applicant have no relevance to the matter at hand. 10. The respondents have also relied on the fact that the

applicant had sought interim relief which had been denied

by this Tribunal vide its order dated 01.12.2015. The

applicant made an undertaking before the Hon'ble High

Court on 11.12.2015 in WP (C) No. 11474/2015 that she

would be joining her place of posting soon after the expiry of

her sick leave on 05.01.2016. Learned counsel for the 14 respondents submitted that she reneged on her pledge by

not joining her place of posting for which she is liable for

action. Further referring to the additional affidavit filed by

the applicant for seeking outstation leave from one Dr.

Ginwal, clearly indicates that the applicant stands relieved

in the afternoon of 03.09.2015 and the HOD has no

authority to sanction leave to her beyond 03.09.2015. The

respondents have repeatedly directed the applicant to report

to her place of posting. In this regard, the respondents have

also placed reliance on their letter dated 29.01.2016 issued

to the applicant which has been filed along with sur-

rejoinder directing to submit all requests for sanction of

medical leave/child adoption leave/salary etc. at RFRI,

Jorhat. The applicant's alleged sick leave had never been

sanctioned nor as her child adoption leave. The respondents

have placed reliance on the followings judgments:- 11. The learned counsel for the respondents strongly

argued that the applicant has completely failed to prove any

kind of malafide for violation of transfer policy, disregard to

the rules and her case stands demolished. The applicant is

guilty of reneging on her undertaking before the Hon'ble

High Court and is trying one excuse or the other to wriggle

out of this transfer. Therefore, the OA is liable to be

dismissed. 12. The respondent nos. 1 and 3 have also filed a counter

affidavit supporting the contentions of the respondent nos.

2,4 and 5 and stating that Indian Council of Forestry

Research & Education, Dehra Dun, is an autonomous body

under the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate

Change, New Delhi with the strength of 280 Scientists

headed by Director General, who is the Chief Executive

Officer and is appointed by the Government of India with the

approval of Appointment Committee of Cabinet. DG is the

final authority for deciding the transfer of the Scientists. 13. The applicant has filed rejoinder application along with

additional affidavit. The applicant and respondents have

also filed their respective written submissions. The

narratives in the instant case have been drawn largely from

their respective statement. 14. I have considered the pleadings of rival parties as also

the documents adduced and the citations relied upon on

either side and have patiently heard the arguments

advanced by the learned counsel for the parties from the

above discussions. 15. The following issues are germane for decision in this

case:- 16. Insofar as first of the issues is concerned, a convenient

point to start is by having a look at the transfer policy of the

respondent organization. This transfer policy was

promulgated on the basis of the recommendations of

Transfer Committee for adoption of transfer policy for Group

'A' and 'B' Scientists/Officers. However, the transfers made

in the organization continue to be governed by the

instructions of the Government of India. Neither of the 17 contending parties has challenged the transfer policy.

Though transfer policy relates to Group 'A' and 'B'

Scientists, it shall be presumed that policy shall equally

applicable to other ranks of Scientists. The principal

challenge in this case is that under provisions of clause 6 of

the Transfer Policy, the recommendations of the Transfer

Committee have been made mandatory. However, the

Director General of ICFRE has been made the final authority

in deciding the transfer of a Scientist. Clause 6 thereof is

being reproduced below for the sake of greater clarity:- It is significant to note that the recommendations of the

Transfer Committee are submitted to the Director General,

ICFRE, who is the final authority for deciding the transfer of

a Scientist. Nowhere does it provide that the Director

General shall be bound to by the principles of transfer policy

alone. The Transfer Committee as is clear from the

wordings is only a recommendatory body and its

recommendations may or may not be accepted by the

Director General, who is the final authority for deciding the

transfer of a Scientist. It also implies that Director General

may or may not agree with the recommendations of the

Transfer Committee. I also take note of the principles

governing the transfer, which I consider it necessary to

reproduce as follows:- It appears abundantly clear that specialization of the

Scientists as per Clause (ii) of Rule 7 is of prime

consideration while considering the case of Scientists for a

transfer from one place to another. Sub-clause (xv) of Rule

4 further provides that scientist could continue at a place

subject to public interest and he/she may be considered to

continue at the same place on merit. The applicant has

relied upon the case of Subhash Chander vs. State of H.P (supra) where the Hon'ble Court has held that "Transfer

Policy does not create vested right in favour of an employee

but it is not a waste paper either. It has been framed for

adherence and not for violation. Thus, transfer quashed". 17. Using the principle of harmonious construction

between two extreme postures adopted by the rival parties,

i.e., the Transfer Committee is only a recommendatory body

and its recommendations are not must for effecting a

transfer and other that the recommendations of the Transfer

Committee are must, I find that when it has been provided

in the rules meant to be implemented. However, the present

set of rules is only in the form of administrative instructions

and not rules framed under Article 309 or otherwise. Hence,

it is lacking in statutory force. The utility of provision 6 lies 20 in the fact that it provides a body to make recommendations

for transfer of employees. Hence, I am not to read much in

this argument of the applicant that the transfer gets vitiated

because it was not based on the recommendations of the

Transfer Committee. This argument appears all the more

flimsy when viewed in terms of the findings of the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Shilpi Bose versus State of Bihar [AIR

1991 (SC) 532] holding as under:- This has also been impressed upon in case of Union of

India vs. S.L. Abbas , [(1993) 4 SCC 357] wherein the

Hon'ble Supreme Court held as under:- 18. In yet another decision in State of U.P. Vs.

Gobardhan Lal [(2004) 11 SCC 402], the Hon'ble Supreme

Court held as under:- It has also been held by the Hon'ble Supreme court in a

number of cases that even if executive instructions or

guidelines are disregarded in making transfer in public

interest, such disregard do not serve to vitiate a transfer.

[Rajendra Rai vs. Union of India & Anr. 1993(1) SCC 178

& Dr. S.K. Mohapatra Vs. Union of India & Ors. 2013 SLJ

123 (CAT)]. 19. I also do not find any credence in the argument of the

applicant that she had been summarily relieved without

completing the formality of handing over or taking over a

charge or without obtaining NOC or clearing her pending

dues when she was on outstation leave on health grounds

and the impugned relieving order served through e-mail in

the evening of 03.09.2015 at her in-laws house (Amroha).

Here, in this regard, it is to be noted that relieving is an 23 administrative action. Though there are certain formalities

prescribed for relieving, it is for the administrative

authorities to consider whether those formalities be

necessitated upon or served. Both the examples are

common depending upon the circumstances of the case. 20. In view of the above discussion, I find no merit in the

case of the applicant and hence decide the issue against the

applicant. 21. Taking up the second of the issues, the argument of

the applicant has already been noted that the applicant was

transferred as a measure of revanche because of her raising

the issue of sexual harassment at Workplace and such other

collateral issues uncomfortable to the respondents. This is

evident from the RTI reply received by the applicant. As this

issue is mainstay of the argument of the applicant, I am of

the opinion that the file notings in this regard need to be

reproduced in some details:- Submitted for approval and directions." 22. It is apparent from the above that the complaints filed

by the applicant and the issues raised by her were not liked

by the authorities as a disruptive force in the institute and

as such, she had to be transferred out. In this regard, the

requisition of the Director, RFRI became a convenient tool to 26 transfer the applicant out. I am of the firm opinion that the

respondents cannot approbate and reprobate

simultaneously. It would have been much better if the

respondents have come out with the plea that transfer was

necessitated on administrative grounds and not raised the

issue of public interest. Both cannot go together. Either

one could say that she had expertise in some subjects and

as such, she was transferred out in the larger public

interest. However, that has been falsified in view of their

own notings that she was being transferred out as she had

been filing petitions against superior officers for her

derogatory language. In that much, the respondents would

have been correct in holding that the transfer had been

made on administrative grounds. However, I cannot hold

that this by itself would be sufficient to vitiate the order of

transfer. It has to be decided in the context of the issue no.3

that whether transfer has been made by malafide. This issue

is perhaps the most important of the whole lot of issues that

I have raised. Existence of malafide is certainly sufficient to

prove to vitiate any order of transfer which then has to

necessarily go. The question of what is malafide has been

answered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in State of Punjab

and Another versus Gurdial Singh [1980 (2) (SCC) 471]

holding as under:- 23. In the case of Ravi Yashwant Bhoir versus District

Collector, Raigad & Others [2012(4) SCC 407], the Hon'ble

Supreme Court defined malafide as under: 24. Further, in the case of in Institute of Law

versus Neeraj Sharma Manu/SC/0841/2014 the

Hon'ble Apex Court has held as under: nevertheless the decision will be set aside.
That is established by Padfield v. Minister
of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food which is
a landmark in modern administrative law. 55. In Laker Airways Ltd. v. Deptt. of
Trade Lord Denning discussed prerogative
of the Minister to give directions to Civil
Aviation Authorities overruling the specific
provisions in the statute in the time of war
and said: (QB p. 705, F-G) 30 Seeing that the prerogative is a discretionary
power to be exercised for the public good, it
follows that its exercise can be examined by
the courts just as any other discretionary
power which is vested in the executive. 56. This Court has long ago discarded the
theory of unfettered discretion. In S.G.
Jaisinghani v. Union of India, Ramaswami,
J. emphasised that absence of arbitrary
power is the foundation of a system
governed by rule of law and observed: (AIR
p. 1434, para 14) 14. In this context it is important to
emphasise that the absence of arbitrary
power is the first essential of the rule of law
upon which our whole constitutional system
is based. In a system governed by rule
of law, discretion, when conferred upon
executive authorities, must be confined
within clearly defined limits. The rule
of law from this point of view means that
decisions should be made by the application
of known principles and rules and, in
general, such decisions should be
predictable and the citizen should know
where he is. If a decision is taken without
any principle or without any rule it is
unpredictable and such a decision is the
antithesis of a decision taken in accordance
with the rule of law...... XXX XXX XXX 59. In Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy v. State
of J&K, Bhagwati J. speaking for the Court
observed: (SCC pp. 13-14, para 14) 14. Where any governmental action fails to
satisfy the test of reasonableness and public
interest discussed above and is found to be
wanting in the quality of reasonableness or
lacking in the element of public interest, it
would be liable to be struck down as
invalid.... 61. The Court also referred to the reasons
recorded in the orders passed by the
Minister for award of dealership of petrol 31 pumps and gas agencies and observed: arbitrariness. It is essential to lay down as
 a matter of policy as to how preferences
 would be assigned between two persons
 falling in the same category.... 62. In Shrilekha Vidyarthi v. State of
 U.P. the Court unequivocally rejected the
 argument based on the theory of absolute
 discretion of the administrative authorities and
 immunity of their action from judicial review
 and observed: (SCC pp. 236, 239-40) 29. It can no longer be doubted at this point
 of time that Article 14 of the Constitution of
 India applies also to matters of governmental
 policy and if the policy or any action of the
 Government, even in contractual matters,
 fails to satisfy the test of reasonableness, it
 would be unconstitutional...." 25. It emerges clearly that the theory of absolute discretion

has been given a go-by in the pronouncements of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court and that of Lord Denning. Here the

argument of absolute discretion appears to have been

adopted by the respondents to justify the transfer which I

am of the opinion is not a fair proposition, in view of the

pronouncements of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and other

superior courts, there is nothing like absolute. Every action 32 of the Government/respondent authorities has to be in

consonance with the rules of natural justice and preferably

reasoned. 26. In Kumaon Mandal Vikas Limited vs. Gargi Shanker (2001)1 SCC 182, the Hon'ble Supreme Court has gone into

the question of malice and that mere allegations cannot take

the place of proof. 27. The decision is to withstand the test of reasonableness,

freedom from malice of both kinds, i.e. malice in law and

malice of facts. No doubt, in the case of Jawahar Thakur

vs. Union of India & Ors. (OA No. 1888/2015 decided on

19.06.2015), this Tribunal upheld the right of the employer

to transfer his employees. In this judgment also, this

Tribunal did not find the transfer orders suffering with any

transgression of rules. However, what I find is that a

transfer order has been made on administrative grounds

and on account of seeming nuisance caused by the

applicant to the respondents by filing the petition. 28. The applicant has also relied upon the case of Somesh

Tiwari vs. Union of India & Ors. , 2009(3) MLJ 727(SC)

where it has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that

"when an order of transfer is passed in view of punishment,

the same is liable to be set aside as wholly illegal". This view

has also been reiterated in A. Micheal Raj vs. DG Police 33 Tamil Nadu (WA No. 1138/2008. In S.Sevugan vs. The

Chief Educational Officer, Virudhunagar District , 2006(2)

CTC 486, the Hon'ble Madras High Court in para 7 and 8

has held that "it is seen from the impugned order of transfer

that it is passed on administrative ground, but it appears that

the order was passed by way of punishment and based on

the complaint against the conduct of the petitioner. If that be

so, the petitioner is certainly entitled for proper opportunity to

defend himself as to whether the complaints against him by

the Public or by the Headmaster are proper or not by way of

an enquiry. In these circumstances, this Court is of the view

that the transfer order passed by way of punishment is

without any opportunity to the petitioner and on the face of it,

the order of transfer is illegal and the same is liable to be set

aside". 29. In R. Mohanasundaram vs. The PCCF (W.P. No. 9599

of 2009), the Hon'ble Madras High Court in para 12 and 13

has held as under:- 30. In Shantilata Patnaik vs. Swaminathan Research

Foundation [WP(C) No. 13120/2009), the Hon'ble Madras

High Court in para 15 has held on 31.12.2012 that "the

transfer order as well as the termination order is not

bonafide. This is not at all expected from an employer and

this will break down the moral courage of other women

employees in the institution, which will ultimately culminate

in unsatisfactory performance.". 31. Here, a note has also to be taken of Bhagwan Verma

vs. Secretary, Board of High School and Intermediate UP where Hon'ble Allahabad High Court has found that "from

the language used in the order is evident that the transfer is

punitive and had been passed without a preliminary inquiry

and therefore quashed the order." 32. Here I also take note of the argument of the finding of

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in MCD Vs. Chattarbhuj

Bhushan Sharma , 133 (2006) DLT 581 where Hon'ble High 35 Court had held that "a transfer can be said to be punitive

only if by transferring, the workman is placed on destitute,

either on salary or on seniority, or he is lowered in grade or

a lower work other than the category assigned to him. If

transfer is made because two employees are at rift with each

other and there has been exchange of abuses between the

two employees, such transfer becomes necessary for

maintaining peace in office and for smooth working of the

office. The case of MCD vs. Chatturbhuj is distinguished

from the instant case by the fact that the applicant has been

raising issues till so far in a language which the respondents

found objectionable and till so far no abuses are reported to

have been traded. I have also taken the nature of the issues

into account. I have noted that some of these issues raised

by the applicant relate to large scale irregularity in award of

doctorate from the Institutes. Allegations are very very

serious as much as they relate to award of degrees to

incompetent officers, without undertaking the research and

without proper qualification and by plagiarizing the work of

others. Media has also taken a note of this situation

ascertaining that FRI University has become a hub for

awarding substandard degrees to IAS officers in gross

violation of established norms and governing rules and

regulations. The RTI information obtained regarding farzi

Ph.D degrees resulted in an article being written as "Fake 36 Degrees: Real Promotions" Vol.1 (vi) of Tehlka magazine

dated 07.02.2015. For the sake of better elucidation, I

would like to extract some of the relevant parts:- Being the first and the only university of the country
 administrating research dedicated exclusively to
 forestry, the university aims at spreading the fruits of
 research and higher education in the forestry sector to
 young students through post-graduation and diploma
 in the forestry and allied sciences. Both the ICFRE and
 the FRI University come under the MOEF. The FRI has awarded more than 600 PHDs so far,
 according to website One of them was to Rawat. X X X
 NS Bisht has been a PhD supervisor for as many as
 four different IFS officers: Gera, RBS Rawat, S Singsit
 and DN Singh. Bisht said that he did not know 37 anything about the study leaves his wards might or
 might not have taken and suggested that the registrar
 of the FRI, AK Tripathi, is more likely to know the
 answer. When asked about the back dating of admission, Bisht
 said that it is not possible. "PhD admissions are done
 twice in a year and no one can take admission on the
 day he applied for PhD," he said. Bisht also said that only the controlling officer - that is,
 the concerned department's head - is competent to give
 nocs for candidates seeking to do PhD while in service.
 And then he disconnected the phone." In particular, I would like to mention of one Dr. SS Negi of

the respondent no.3, who is the Special Secretary to

Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. In this

regard, one has to go through a review of the book written

by the respondent no.3 'Handbook of Fir and Spruce Trees

of the World' by one Rudolf Schmid Taxon which is a

castigating testimony to the unashamed plagiarism that the

respondent no.3 has indulged in while going through this

work. It is also necessary to extract here from the book

review of Dr. Rudolf Schmid Taxon as follows:- On hand for comparison is the Handbook on Abies and
Picea worldwide written by S.S. ("Sharad Singh" Negi's book lacks an index and thus concludes with a
 six-page "select bibliography" that was mindlessly and
 slavishly copied from Farjon's bibliography. Negi's
 references are nearly identical in format to Farjon's,
 complete with Farjon's bibliographic annotations, his
 stylistic peculiarities, his few citations of less than the
 most recent editions (e.g., Esau), and so forth.
 However, neither Negi nor his publisher apparently had
 the capability to add diacritical marks in both
 bibliography or the text (e.g., as in A.
 yuanbaashanensis Lii & Fu." 33. The surprise of surprises is that instead of taking the

respondent no.3 to task for stealing the work of an eminent

scientist, the respondent no.3 has been rewarded with a

position of responsibility in the respondent institution.

Obviously the respondent no.3 would not love a person who

has opened a can of worms. 34. It is clear from the records submitted by the applicant

that all is not well in the ICFRE. It is certainly not the case

that peace of cemetery where the dead are at the mercy of

the living, should prevail to beat the voice of dissent into

submission. It scarcely needs to be emphasized that ethical 40 dissent is the essence of democracy and democracy way of

living. It provides tensile strength to this system. Hence, I

agree with the contention of the learned counsel for the

applicant that if this transfer is allowed to go through, no

one shall ever dare to raise his voice in protest to murky

dealings in the respondent organization. Thus, the issue is

decided in favour of the applicant. 35. In respect of issue no.4, I can only conclude that no

infringement of rules have taken place by the respondent

authorities in effecting the transfer; the stated objective of

the transfer is to punish and remove the applicant, who has

become inconvenient to the respondents and is not in public

interest, as has been claimed. I also find that the

complainant is a lady. She has acted with courage in

raising some of the issues relating to fake Ph.D. degrees and

large scale plagiarism prevailing in the institute. The

transfer is the result of issues being raised by the applicant.

It is for the authorities to appoint a higher power committee

to inquire into these charges and to set the house in order

which I am sure they will do. However, though transfer does

not lower the rank of the applicant or reduce her salary, it is

likely to cause much inconvenience to her as she appears to

have adopted a child recently and would be removed from

the familiar surroundings. In any case, she cannot be 41 punished for raising issues like sexual harassment, fake

degrees and plagiarism. I also recognize that the applicant

is a whistle blower, though she has staked no claims to it in

as many words. She is entitled to protection under the Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2011 and numerous

decisions relating to whistleblowers. Therefore, the

offending impugned orders must go. I am to order in this

regard in the following terms:- (ii) The period of absence of the applicant is to be

 adjusted against some leave due as per provisions

 of the Leave Rules in force; (iii) The respondent no.1 may like to set up a high

 power committee to review the working of the

 Institution and ascertain veracity of the charges

 raised by the applicant; and (iv) In case the charges are found frivolous, the

 respondents are free to take appropriate action

 against the applicant. 36. With the above directions, the OA stands disposed of.

No order as to costs. (Dr. B.K. Sinha)
 Member (A)
/lg/