Report -Why your organization has an extreme level o[censored]nprofessional behavior by all female Genders To the Head of the Department Natwest Group, Royal Bank of Scotland Subject -Spoiling innocent new joiner career with fake reports, fake images, the fake allegations by All trainers, all Female Managers, Some of the VPS including HR also involved in this activities to spoil the entire career by the extreme level of politics in your department last 5 years. I am writing this letter to bring to your attention a matter that has negatively impacted your entire work environment. The employee behavior of all female Gender Managers, trainers, all VPS Female genders, and some of the Female HR managers also spoiled so many employees' careers within our team, which has been concerning and has caused many disruptions. The issue came to my attention the last 3 years when I noticed that All Female Managers, HR female Managers, and Some of the Female VPS consistently displaying inappropriate behavior and playing master games to spoil or throw the mistakes to only any male gender and save their jobs and spoiled 1000 of male genders career this is related to an extreme level of harassment, mental harassment, attempt to murder, torturing, creating fake performance report against any innocent employees, winning by words by all female genders and throwing all mistake to any innocent employees career not interested to help with fake false promises. These worrisome actions vary from unnecessary disruptions during work, being disrespectful to other team members, and failing to meet their responsibilities. As an organization that prides itself on fostering a respectful and healthy work environment, I believe such behavior cannot be ignored. This situation has not only affected my all employee's ability to complete my their tasks effectively but also has shifted the team's overall morale and productivity. I kindly request that Head of the department address this issue professionally and promptly for the betterment of our working environment. I am confident that appropriate action will be taken to resolve this matter, ensuring that our workspace remains comfortable and conducive for all employees. Request that please do an extreme level of Proper investigation of a minimum of the last 5 years of all female gender call recordings of phone call, all WhatsApp calls must be scrutinized properly for a minimum of at least 5 years, and 5 years of all WhatsApp app messages of all female genders must check properly with the help of all lady police officers, please check all personal email ID as well as all official mail must be scrutinized by only police department people only . We got the information from many employees that all female genders in your departments are illegally manner sending extension letters marking errors and providing fake reports with negative remarks to spoil so many innocent employees' careers and extreme level all female managers throwing mistakes to the male genders and winning by the words. We will not tolerate this kind of Illegal activity in your department. We the innocent employees people please check all female genders nature behavior in this office is not acceptable in this department and any male gender is not a servant or slave of any cheap kind of extreme level of professional female genders like some of the trainers, Lady Toxic managers ready to create anything nonsense in your department -The entire management has an extreme level o[censored]nprofessional all female behavior must be remove or terminate including must be closed in this Entire company as soon as possible. Thank you for taking the time to read this letter, and I appreciate your immediate attention on this matter. Sincerely, Regard Akashdeep Madiwalla Was this information helpful? No (0) Yes (0)