SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Nobles vs Wilds
DATE: 2019-07-12
SCORE: 3
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/cbzmbz/nobles_vs_wilds/

--- POST TEXT ---

MY WORLD VIEW

"Always remember, chaos has a nasty burning desire for absolute anarchy"

There are two types of people in this world / Nature produces two types of people in this world 
TYPE 1 - 
First type are people who are naturally "good" , "gifted" and are better in everything they do, wether intellectual pursuits or philosophical or martial or spiritual, these guys have merit and are naturally "gifted" , they look good, they do good, they think good and they want to do good, lets call them the noble ones (what is that term in sanskrit for "noble" again ?)
These NOBLES since are merit chasers, the chasers of the good, the chasers of aesthetics, of marvel, of grandeur, of excellence, their general disposition naturally takes shape such that they always look for "good" qualities in something, this is their very first subconscious immediate examination and observation of anything in the outer world for example, looking for a groom ? they will look for good qualities like virtues, intellect, aesthetics in old days the capability of war waging whether physically or through intellect or through leadership, you get the point.
For recruiting for any job they will again look for merits like a candidate's capability for the job, how better a candidate fits for the job etc.
Bottomline is that for these first type of people, their survival principle and intuition or say technique is simple - get better, do better, achieve, excel, hard work, develop your skills, compete, win etc. in other words when facing a defeat in something , they say to themselves - "well, I must get better in this thing and win next time".
TYPE 2
Second type of people are people who are not good at anything, they are naturally weak and are naturally inclined towards self destructive habits or in other words "degeneracy".

These types of people are more inclined towards "bad" characteristics like for example violence, hooliganism, pleasure chasing, alcoholism, quarrelsomeness, driven by their ego and not by a drive of excellence or for something better, lets call them the wild ones.

These type of people always have chaos, confusion, fear, trouble, poverty, violence, quarrels and cacophony among them, the wild ones are very un-predictive, they can be something right now then something else next moment, their mind is wild and not in control so naturally they dont have any kind of goal or purpose in life.

One very peculiar desire these people always have is of total control, the "wildness" of these people always sort of "nag" them internally to bring others under their submission so that they can then wreck havoc on their subjects by indulging fully into their deep dark fantasies. 

THE INTERACTION 
When these two types collide they first fight each other, naturally the noble ones prevail over the wild ones given the hunger for intellect and excellence in everything of the nobles they come out as the stronger ones.

Once the fight settles and wild ones are controlled by the noble ones, the noble ones following their natural course of progress start building their world which eventually progresses towards more stability where there are no frequent wars, life is systematic, humans have achieved excellent feats in every fields they figured out etc.

To build this world of course the system of noble ones work with the jobs going to the fittest, merit becomes the chased virtue, everyone wants to get better at something, everyone competes with the other in excellence and virtues, this brings out the best in human beings.

Once the graph of world progress becomes stagnant and reaches a saturation point, at that point of time the noble ones recognize that the wild ones are still struggling to settle in world which values merit, virtues, intelligence, and other good capabilities like self control, discipline, good conduct , hard work, etc. as they dont have any, so the nobles now can do one thing - create social hierarchical structure with strict and staunch boundaries with trivial tasks assigned eternally to the wild ones watched under strict laws and protocols, everybody's happy.

One other thing which can be done is to rig or lower the standard of the entire system to accomodate the wild ones effectively, this system facilitates special privileges for the wild ones so that they can adopt themselves better and can catch up with the nobles and with the progressing world.

This system promises free education, extra efforts on the behalf of the nobles for the wild ones, and also special preferences of wild ones over the ones with merit in jobs and other fields of human endeavors. lets call it the SJW system.

This later SJW system makes a fatal mistake, they fail to recognize that these wild ones would never be able to adapt to the system of merit because they naturally dont have any, they are born this way and even they themselves can not do anything about it.

What happens though is that the wild ones actually develop or lets just say "evolve" into a better version of themselves by developing a particular skill, its called - MANIPULATION or PLAYING ON THE EMOTIONS OF THE NOBLES.

The wild ones refuse to work, they refuse to even try to learn or to try out good virtues like hard work, focus, self control, discipline, following good laws, following the ones who are wiser and better, humiliation, etc.

The wild ones instead start practicing a very sophisticated and evolved way of doing violence, quarrel and to spread chaos - they start manipulation tactics - they start playing victim, playing blame game, shaming, being passive aggressive, false accusations, emotional blackmail, threatening, spreading false fabrications as facts, drama, illogical and irrational behavior, difficult behavior, pretending to not understand, sabotaging a healthy conversation by irrelevant, illogical or emotionally charged fallacies, uncalled for violent and aggressive behavior, intimidation tactics, theft, crime, falsely accusing system and claim that system forced them to do crime etc.

This is the survival principle and intuition or say technique of these people.

Naturally good people want to preserve themselves, naturally wild people have nothing to preserve or conserve, instead they would like to acquire and subjugate others in an attempt to satisfy their wild ego.

Wild ones makes excuse that they will do good and will attain merit automatically if they get women of the nobles, wild ones make excuse that they didnt do good so far because noble ones never let them, wild ones make excuse that they do crime, aggression, violence, and bad performance in their specially acquired jobs because they are victims of the noble ones, wild ones make excuse that until noble ones totally give up for good and forget their cultural, historical, ancestral and social identity and heritage and sophisticated structure the wild ones could never progress.

Now, you tell me, how wise it is for the noble ones to freely mingle with the wild ones ?

and yeah, there is a secret THIRD TYPE of people, who inject this SJW way into the gullible minds of both the nobles and the wild ones. Why do they do it ? well, you can see them as the best ones of the wild ones, the cream of the crop in the wild ones, and they want total control, it is in their nature.