TUSHAR RAO GEDELA, J: (ORAL) 1. This is an appeal under Section 37(1)(c) of the Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as 'the 1996 Act') seeking
 setting aside of the order dated 28.07.2025 passed by the learned District
 Judge (Commercial) in the matter of 'M/s Orchid International vs. M/s
 Goyal and Goel Stainless Steel & Anr' bearing Case No.OMP (COMM.)
 90/2024 whereby the petition filed by the appellant under Section 34 of the
 1996 Act was dismissed on the ground of being devoid of merits. 2. Mr. Bharatt Groverr, learned counsel for the appellant, while referring
 to the impugned judgment, particularly para 6, states that the issue regarding
 the disputes between the partners of the claimant/respondent no.1 was not
 considered. He further submits that the legal issue raised by the appellant, in Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed FAO 315/2025 Page 1 of 9 By:YASHRAJ Signing Date:21.11.2025 17:17:50 that, the claimant/respondent no.1 is not a registered partnership firm and
 that it had no locus standi to file the claim was not at all considered. He also
 submits that the ledger along with the delivery proof were not placed before
 the arbitrator, and thus, the arbitrator could not have concluded that a sum of
 Rs.7,900,061/- as the principal amount, was due and payable to the
 claimant/respondent no.1 by the appellant. 3. He submits that apart from the aforesaid issue, the contention that
 appellant was incapacitated to pay the sum on account of the fact that the
 bank account of the claimant/respondent no.1 was frozen by orders of this
 Court due to the pending disputes inter se the partners of the
 claimant/respondent no.1 was also not considered. 4. Having heard learned counsel for the appellant and after perusing the
 records of the case, this Court is not inclined to entertain this appeal. 5. At the outset, this Court deems it apposite to consider the scope of the
 appeal under Section 37(1)(c) of the 1996 Act. 6. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Punjab State Civil Supplies
 Corporation Ltd. & Anr. vs. M/s. Sanman Rice Mills & Ors.; 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 2632, particularly in paragraphs 20 and 21 eruditely laid the
 principles governing the exercise of power under Section 37(1)(c) of the
 1996 Act as under: 7. The principles culled out by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the
 aforesaid judgment clearly indicates that the powers of the appellate Court
 exercising jurisdiction under Section 37(1)(c) of the 1996 Act is highly
 circumscribed. It is not as if the Court exercising jurisdiction under Section
 37 of the 1996 Act is sitting in exercise of its first appellate jurisdiction or
 even a jurisdiction akin to one stipulated in Section 100 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure, 1908. In fact, it is only to exercise a jurisdiction where it
 examines the judicial propriety of the impugned order assailed under Section
 34 of the 1996 Act, which itself is very limited in its extent. 8. It is thus on this issue that the Hon'ble Supreme Court had taken a
 view that the Court exercising jurisdiction under Section 37 of the 1996 Act
 is limited within the domain of Section 34 of the 1996 Act, and it exercises a
 jurisdiction only to find out if the Court exercising the power under Section
 34 of the Act has acted within its limits as prescribed thereunder or has
 exceeded or failed to exercise the powers so conferred. 9. Having observed as above, this Court has considered the arguments
 addressed by learned counsel appearing for the appellant and finds that the
 substratum of the arguments are predicated on facts, which have been dealt
 with, in one way or the other, by the arbitrator and thereafter by the Court
 exercising jurisdiction under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. 10. In particular, it would be apposite to extract the relevant portions of
 the impugned order, which would throw light on the objections raised by the
 appellant and dealt with by the learned District Judge (Commercial). The
 same reads as under: Award in conflict with public policy and in contravention of
 fundamental policy of India 21. While opening his submissions in this regard Ld. Counsel for
 objector submits that the award in question deserves to be set aside for the
 following reasons: 22. In case titled Divyam Real Estate Private Ltd. Vs. M2K
 Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. , 2024 SCC Online DEL 3786 Para 21.6 reads as
 under: 23. In case titled I-Pay Clearing Services (P) Limited Vs. ICICI Bank
 Ltd. , 2022 Latest Case law 4 SC, Hon'ble Supreme Court ruled as under: (Emphasis Supplied) 24. In this regard it is submitted by Ld. counsel for objector that 7
 invoices out of numerous invoices issued to the Objector, in the course of
 admitted business amongst them, namely 385, 364, 314, 309, 286, 283 and
 281 filed and relied by the claimant were fake as per finding by the
 Arbitrator. In this regard as far as the first objected invoice i.e. 385 is
 concerned record reveals and the Arbitrator found that neither any invoice
 by this number was part of the Statement of Claim nor any copy thereof
 was filed and there is no reference of it in the ledger filed by the claimant.
 Upon being asked Ld. Counsel for the objector concedes that this invoice
 is a non-existent no. and the objector mistakenly referred to it in the
 Statement of Defence. Ld. Counsel submits that he is not pressing his submission qua this invoice
 no. 385. 25. As regards the plea that the remaining 6 invoices were found to be
 fake by Ld. Arbitrator, attention of this Court is drawn to second para of
 the internal page 37 of the award. For ready reference the same is
 reproduced hereunder: 26. Plain reading of the above shows that there is no finding by the
 Tribunal that these 6 invoices were "Fake". Just because the
 seller/claimant was unable to prove the delivery of goods under these 6
 invoices, the only legal consequence is that the claimant would not get any
 payment under them. But this failure ipso facto does not mean that the
 invoices are fake as sought to be made by Ld. Counsel for the objector. 27. Another plea was raised that the plea of invoices being fake was
 not restricted to only 7 invoices. Ld. Counsel for objector invested
 substantial time on harping on this plea of all invoices being fake invoices
 even though in the Section 34 petition under disposal no such objection
 /ground was even raised. 28. As regards the second plea citing mismatch in the ledger it is cited
 that no such ground/objection is taken in the Section 34 Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act petition. The bald plea that the claimant did not file the
 complete ledger is absolutely untenable since admittedly the Objector
 herein never moved any notice to the claimant under Order 12 Rule 8
 CPC or for that matter Order 11 Rule 5 CPC as amended for commercial
 suits. Patent illegality appearing on the face of award 29. It is argued that the award does suffer from patent illegality in so
 far as objector herein was not allowed to place documents on record
 namely a judicial order of freezing of partnership bank account and
 objector's ledger statement. In so far as these documents were filed
 alongwith the Statement of Defence they are available on the arbitral
 record. No order was passed that they shall not be accepted. The
 submission of Ld. Counsel for objector is found to be factually incorrect. 30. A plea is raised that these documents did not find mention in the
 arbitral award. Even this plea is found to be factually incorrect in so far
 as in internal page 5 of the impugned arbitral award not only these 2
 documents have been duly mentioned but they have been referred to by
 their description and exhibit no. Ex.R-1 and Ex.R-2. The award even carries discussion about these two documents at internal
 page 7. As such it is found that Ld. Counsel for the objector is making
 misleading submissions before this Court. Award in conflict with basic notions of morality and justice 31. Upon being asked it is accepted that there is nothing in the
 impugned award which can be said to be in conflict with basic notions of
 morality and justice. Fraud and corruption 32. Nothing has been filed on record or shown that the action of the
 Arbitrator during the course of proceedings were effected by fraud or
 corruption. 33. Nothing has been shown that any evidence or submission raised by
 the Objector in the Statement of Defence was not dealt with by the Ld.
 Arbitrator. The impugned arbitral award is found to be just and
 reasonable in so far as not only all factual pleas were duly discussed
 threadbare but also the fact that invoices objected to by the Objector
 herein on the ground of non-delivery of goods were removed from the
 claim petition and only partial claim was allowed. In the light of the
 above, I do not find any merits in this Section 34 Arbitration and
 Conciliation Act, 1996 objection petition. Same is accordingly dismissed
 with cost of Rs.25,000/- to be paid to respondent." Having perused the various parameters which have been examined by
 the learned District Judge (Commercial) as above, this Court does not find
 any reason muchless any cogent reason to interfere or interdict the impugned
 order passed under Section 34 of the 1996 Act. Moreover, this Court finds
 that the Court examining the petition under Section 34 of the 1996 Act has
 rightly considered all issues warranting no interference, given the mandate
 of Hon'ble Supreme Court in Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. (supra). 11. That apart, learned counsel for the appellant has argued the appeal on
 merits based on facts, which cannot be considered by this Court. For
 abundant precaution and to satisfy its judicial conscience, this Court has
 examined the arbitral award dated 02.05.2024. Apparently from the
 pleadings and submissions of the parties, the arbitral tribunal framed the
 following issues: 12. On the issue no.1 and 2, the arbitral tribunal after examining the law
 enunciated by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, concluded in favour of the
 claimant/respondent no.1. So far as issue no.3 is concerned, regarding 6
 invoices/bills, after a thorough examination and evaluation of evidence, the
 arbitral tribunal concluded that the 6 invoices/bills were bogus, and fake, and
 that no payments were liable to be made on those invoices/bills. However,
 with respect to the remaining invoices/bills, keeping in view the admission
 of the appellant in respect of the invoices/bills, it had rightly concluded that
 the appellant/respondent would be liable to make the due payments. Another
 argument revolved around the incapacity of appellant to pay. The excuse that
 the bank account of respondent was frozen under the orders of this Court in a
 dispute inter se parties is lame. The incapacity envisaged is that of the debtor
 and not the creditor and there being no such proof, cannot be considered at
 all. Thus, having regard to the clear findings of the facts as also on the law,
 which were clearly observed, set out and considered by the learned District
 Judge (Commercial) in the impugned judgement, no interference whatsoever
 can be countenanced by this Court. The appellant appears to be attempting to
 re-argue the facts and law as conclusively decided by the arbitral tribunal. This is impermissible in law. 13. In that view of the matter, the aforesaid appeal sans merit, is
 dismissed accordingly. However, without any order as to costs. 14. Pending applications also stand disposed of. TUSHAR RAO GEDELA, J
 NOVEMBER 19, 2025
 Yrj Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed FAO 315/2025 Page 9 of 9 By:YASHRAJ Signing Date:21.11.2025 17:17:50