10.01.2025 1. Suit Decreed. 2. It is seen that the defendant has not diligently pursued the
 case. Apart from putting in fleeting appearances initially
 through Counsel, he ultimately stopped attending court
 proceedings altogether. In view of the same and given the
 evidence on record, plaintiff is held entitled to the relief
 sought. 3. Pithily put, the case of the plaintiff is that defendant is a
 company incorporated under the Companies Act . It is averred
 that plaintiff was appointed by the defendant as Project
 Coordinator Intern vide appointment letter dated 27.11.2018
 on gross salary of Rs. 10,000/- per month. As plaintiff
 performed his duty diligently, he was well appraised for his
 performance and his salary was also increased from time to
 time, firstly to Rs. 25,000/- per month and the second time
 over to Rs. 37,800/- per month. As per the plaintiff, he was
 even been promoted to the post of Business Development
 Executive vide letter dated 01.01.2019. After working for
 more than two years however, plaintiff tendered his
 resignation vide email dated 01.09.2020 and requested the
 defendant to pay his dues totaling to Rs. 1,14,392/- alongwith

Civ Suit No. 167/2021 Kushagra Singh Vs. New Vision Digital Private Ltd. Ors. pg. no. 2/8
 experience certificate. Despite repeated requests and
 reminders by the plaintiff, defendant kept on delaying making
 payment on one ground or the other. In such a background
 therefore, the instant suit proceedings came to be filed
 wherein the following reliefs have been sought : 1,14,392/- alongwith interest of Rs. 29,130/-, calculated @
 18%) in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant
 alongwith pendente-lite interest @ 18% p.a. from the date of
 filing of the suit till the date of payment. ii) Costs of the suit and advocate fee in favour of the plaintiff
 and against the defendant. 4. Upon summons being issued, appearance was entered into by
 Ld. Counsel for the defendant no. 1 and WS was filed. It is
 claimed in the WS that the plaintiff version is completely
 false. It is stated that plaintiff was fired from service by the
 management of the defendant company on 02.09.2020 since
 he was engaged in unethical practices and disclosed/ misused
 the confidential information for his unlawful monetary gains,
 violating service conditions. It is averred that such unethical
 deeds of the plaintiff caused huge monetary losses to the
 defendant company as well as loss of goodwill. It is further
 claimed by the defendant that plaintiff in collusion with its
 former employees had stolen secret information, leaked the
 data and even got opened a new company and diverted the
 information of trade related to defendant to its own company
 for its personal monetary benefits. Not only that, the

Civ Suit No. 167/2021 Kushagra Singh Vs. New Vision Digital Private Ltd. Ors. pg. no. 3/8
 defendant also averred that the plaintiff enticed away some of
 its clients for the benefit of its new company. When the
 defendant contacted its clients for business, it came to know
 that a new company in the name & style of 'Digital Xplode
 Private Limited' had been opened which is stated to be a sister
 company of it, for which defendant had wanted to initiate
 criminal proceedings, but on the request of the plaintiff and its
 assurance to pay Rs. 3 Lakhs towards the losses suffered by
 the defendant, it avoided the same and instead, fired the
 plaintiff from its services. The defendant denied the amounts
 claimed by the plaintiff to be outstanding and stated that on
 account of maliciously taking away some of its clients who
 used to place orders with it, it in fact had suffered losses. In
 such circumstances, the defendant has contended that a false
 story has been cooked up by the plaintiff and there is no truth
 in the same. 5. It is to be noted that during Court proceedings on 03.06.2024,
 plaintiff dropped defendants no. 2 & 3, initially arrayed as
 parties in capacity of being office bearers of the defendant
 company. 6. Upon pleadings being complete, issues for determination
 were framed by the Court as herein below :- 1,43,522/- against the defendant as prayed for in the plaint?
 OPP

Civ Suit No. 167/2021 Kushagra Singh Vs. New Vision Digital Private Ltd. Ors. pg. no. 4/8 ii) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to any interest over and
 above the said amount, if yes, at what rate and for what
 period? OPP iii) Whether the suit of the plaintiff is without any cause of
 action under Order VII Rule 11 CPC as per preliminary
 objection no. 4 of the WS? OPD 7. PE was thereafter led wherein plaintiff examined himself as
 the sole witness. He tendered his evidence by way of affidavit
 Ex. PW1/A. He also relied upon documents being:- 8. Upon being examined as such, PE was closed and final
 arguments were advanced. Defendant had been proceeded ex

Civ Suit No. 167/2021 Kushagra Singh Vs. New Vision Digital Private Ltd. Ors. pg. no. 5/8
 parte by now since he had stopped entering an appearance in
 court. 9. Submissions heard. Case file perused. 10.With regards Issue No. 3 first, as to the suit being
 maintainable/cause of action lying in favour of the plaintiff,
 the factual matrix of the case leaves no room of doubt about
 the same. The plaintiff has, in substance, filed the present suit
 for recovery of his salary and related dues from the defendant
 company, where he was once employed. As per his case, the
 defendant company has not made entire payment for the same
 till date. It is no longer res integra that averments in the plaint
 only are to be looked at whilst considering an objection raised
 under O. 7 R 11 CPC . If that be so, cause of action clearly lies
 in favour of the plaintiff for instituting the present
 proceedings as the bundle of facts mentioned in the plaint
 does give rise to avoid claim of the plaintiff. As such
 therefore, Issue No. 3 is decided in favour of the plaintiff and
 against the defendant. 11. As for the substantive Issue No. 1 for the amount of recovery
 sought, it is seen that the testimony of PW1 has gone entirely
 unrebutted / unassailed and there is nothing on record which
 casts a doubt on the same. Documents placed on record have
 been duly proved. In fact, the copies of email chats filed on
 record by the plaintiff, containing replies of the defendant at
 one point, also show that even the defendant agreed to the
 amount of Rs. 76,592/- as incentive payable and doesn't quite

Civ Suit No. 167/2021 Kushagra Singh Vs. New Vision Digital Private Ltd. Ors. pg. no. 6/8
 controvert the same. Even otherwise, the defendant is seen to
 have filed on record no documents at all to put forth any
 contrary calculation with regards the amount due to the
 plaintiff, if at all. The WS filed by him contained only
 averments and no other documentary evidence. More so, such
 WS and it's contents could never be proved as well anyways,
 since defendant was proceeded ex parte. In view of the same,
 the averments of the plaintiff as to the amount due are taken to
 be proved. The suit is seen to be filed within the period of
 limitation as well. Considering the same and in view of the
 evidence led, Issue No. 1 is decided in favor of the plaintiff
 and against the defendant. 12.Finally, as far as Issue no. 2 is concerned, it is noted that the
 plaintiff has sought recovery of interest @ 18% p.a. on the
 amount of dues till realization. Such rate of interest is not only
 unreasonable but also excessive. Superior courts have
 repeatedly laid down that high & unconscionable rates of
 interests are in essence against public policy and by
 implication void under Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act,
 1872 ("ICA"). Also, as per Section 74 of ICA as well, even in
 cases of stipulation by way of penalty provided for breach of
 any terms of contract, only reasonable compensation is liable
 to be awarded & not always the penalty amount, which may
 be exorbitant. In this regard in fact, Section 34 CPC postulates
 the pendente-lite interest at a rate, not exceeding 6% and any
 other interest at a rate, not exceeding the rate, at which
 nationalized banks advance loan may be awarded. Keeping
 such statutory stipulations in mind, it shall be in fitness of

Civ Suit No. 167/2021 Kushagra Singh Vs. New Vision Digital Private Ltd. Ors. pg. no. 7/8
 things if plaintiff is granted pendente-lite simple rate of
 interest @ 6% p.a. and interest @9% p.a. as future interest till
 its realization within the meaning of Section 74 of the Indian
 Contract Act, 1872. In view of the same, Issue no 2 is decided
 in favor of the plaintiff to that extent. RELIEF 13.Accordingly, the suit of the plaintiff is hereby Decreed with
 the following relief:- 14.Parties to bear their own costs. Decree-sheet be prepared accordingly. File be consigned to Record Room after due compliance.