: II. The Registry of this Bench had issued hearing notices to both parties in
 respect of the Second Appeal. Thereafter, the matter was listed for
 hearing on 02.01.2024. Relevant Facts emerged during Hearing on 02.01.2024: Against point no. 7, the respondent informed that the appellant sought
 certified copy of Note Sheet of the file for curtailment of deputation tenure and
 pre-mature repatriation of the services. They further stated that they were
 under impression that Note#1 to note#16 was not related to the information
 sought by appellant, therefore, the same was not furnished. However, they
 agreed to provide the complete information on point no. 7 of the RTI
 application. III. The Commission passed the following observations and directions on
 11.01.2024: Even if one went by the interpretation placed by this Court in W.P.(C) No. 7930
 of 2009 [Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) v. CIC, decision dated
 30th November 2009] that the word "impede" would "mean
 anything which would hamper and interfere with the procedure followed in
 the investigation and have the effect to hold back the progress of investigation",
 it has still to be demonstrated by the public authority that the information if
 disclosed would indeed "hamper" or "interfere" with the investigation, which in
 this case is the second enquiry." It may be noted that no such justification has been provided by the Respondent
 public authority while denying information in the instant case, which arise out of
 Appellant's own service matter. The concerned FAA has also failed to discharge
 his duty in the spirit of RTI Act blindly endorsing the reply of the CPIO without
 studying the facts of the case in hand and thereby, the FAA has not passed
 speaking order. In addition to the above, the respondent had also not provided complete
 information against point no. 7 of the RTI application. Though, during the course
 of hearing, they expressed their preparedness to provide the complete
 information on point no. 7 along with all the annexures. It is pertinent to
 mention that information as sought by the appellant in the aforesaid RTI
 application should have been provided within the time frame. As per the
 submission of the appellant, if the information sought was given within the
 timeline, he could have raised his grievance before an appropriate authority.
 But due to lapse of time, damaged done to him may not be cured. The
 Commission observes that reply given by the respondent is evasive, misleading
 and incomplete. In view of the above, Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar
 Chaudhary, the FAA in the capacity of deemed PIO are directed to show cause
 as to why maximum penalty under Section 20 (1) of the RTI Act should not be
 imposed against each of them for not providing the information within the
 stipulated time. The present CPIO is given responsibility to serve a copy of this
 order as well as show cause notice to the FAA and secure their attendance on
 the next date of hearing and also submit their written explanations. All the
 written explanations of the CPIO & the FAA (deemed CPIO) must reach the
 Commission within four weeks from the date of receipt of this order.
 Meanwhile, the respondent is directed to revisit the RTI application and provide
 the revised information on point no. 4 and 7 of the RTI application, within three
 weeks' time from the date of receipt of this order." IV. The written explanations were called for by the Registry of this Bench
 from the Respondent in respect of the SCN issued. Thereafter, the matter
 is listed for hearing on 15.05.2024. Relevant Facts emerged during Show cause Hearing on 15.05.2024: The respondents while defending their case inter alia submitted that they had
already provided the desired information on point Nos. 4 and 7 of the RTI
application and thus, complied with the directions given by the Commission in
its order dated 11.01.2024. They further submitted that most of the information
sought for by the appellant against his application dated 22.08.2022 were
provided by the concerned CPIO including the information against point No. 4
indirectly as the information provided against point No. 7 (copy of the Note
sheets). They added that information sought against point No. 4 were related to a
confidential letter dated 13.05.2022 regarding the non-performance of the
Applicant by his controlling officer, subsequent input received on the
performance of the Applicant from his controlling officer vide email dated
22.06.2022 stating that there was no visible improvement in his performance
and thus recommending his pre-mature repatriation. The entire matter was
under examination/consideration in DOP&T and had not reached its finality.
They stated that disclosure of Applicant's controlling officers' confidential letter
and email on his non-performance and recommendation for pre-mature
repatriation would have caused disharmony between the Reporting officer i.e.
DDG(RO-Ranchi) and the Reported officer i.e. the Applicant and would have
vitiated the working atmosphere of the Regional Office, Ranchi. Therefore, the
information sought was denied under section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act. Besides,
they informed that the appellant's deputation tenure was completing on Page 7 of 46 31.10.2023 and till 31.10.2023, no decision was taken by the competent
 authority on UIDAI's recommendation on his pre-mature repatriation and
 therefore, he completed his full tenure in UIDAI and was relieved from UIDAI,
 w.e.f. 31.10.2023. In addition to the above, the respondents admitted that denial of information
 was not expressly covered under section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act. They stated that
 the error was committed inadvertently and had no mala fide and accordingly
 prayed that show causes notices be dropped and no penalty be imposed against
 them (CPIO/FAA). During the course of hearing appellant submitted that both the respondents are
 connected with HR matters and thus in the knowledge of his two children being
 PwD and undergoing treatment in Ranchi. Despite that they gave him additional
 charge of Patna for a period of above three months. The officer alleging non-
 performance was the controlling officer for the additional charge of Patna unit
 and not his main charge at Ranchi. He further submitted that all three were
 working in tandem to harass him as he had begun pointing out misdeeds by
 these three. There was clearly an attempt to harm his interests and tarnish his
 reputation. It is another matter that they did not succeed in it. As such, they had
 the intention to harm him and also acted on that intention. V. The Commission passed the final decision in the Show Cause Proceedings
 vide order dated 24.05.2024 with the following observations: The first installment of penalty amount should reach to the Commission by
 15.07.2024 and the final installment of penalty amount should reach to the
 Commission by 15.08.2024. The appeal is disposed of accordingly." VI. In compliance with the direction passed by the CIC vide order dated
 24.05.2024, Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then CPIO, vide letter dated
 12.07.2024, informed the Commission as under: payable at New Delhi issued by ICICI Bank Dated 12.07.2024, in full compliance
 with Operative portion of Order Dated 24.05.2024 passed by this Hon'ble
 Commission, under protest, subject to the adjudication of Application seeking
 modification and without prejudice to my constitutional and legal right to avail
 legal remedy in accordance with law before the appropriate competent judicial
 forum." VII. In compliance with the direction passed by the CIC vide order dated
 24.05.2024, Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA, vide letter dated
 12.07.2024, informed the Commission as under: payable at New Delhi issued by ICICI Bank Dated 12.07.2024, in full compliance
 with Operative portion of Order Dated 24.05.2024 passed by this Hon'ble
 Commission, under protest, subject to the adjudication of Application seeking
 modification and without prejudice to my constitutional and legal right to avail
 legal remedy in accordance with law before the appropriate competent judicial
 forum." VIII. Thereafter, the Respondent Public Authority filed a Writ Petition (C)
 bearing No. 3019/2025 in the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. The operating
 portion of the judgment passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi vide
 order 17.04.2025 is reproduced below: 19. In the circumstances, it is incumbent on CIC to consider the attendant
facts and circumstances to assess whether the conduct of the CPIO/FAA is
egregious so as to entail levying of penalty under Section 20 of the RTI Act. 20. A representation/application in this regard has already been submitted
by the petitioner on 25.06.2024. In the circumstances, it would be apposite if
the said application is duly considered and decided by the CIC taking into
account the facts and circumstances as highlighted therein. It is directed
accordingly. The CIC is requested to decide the same as expeditiously as
possible. 21. The present petition is disposed of in the above terms. Pending
application/s are also disposed of." IX. The instant matter is being pursued by the Commission in compliance
 with the direction given by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Writ
 Petition (C) No. 3019/2025 dated 17.04.2025, to dispose of the
 representation filed by the Respondent Public Authority dated
 25.06.2024, which resulted in an out of turn basis hearing by overriding
 the matters awaiting listing in due course on their turn. X. The issue under consideration is a representation filed by the Respondent
 Public Authority through its Director (HR) dated 25.06.2024 on the official
 letterhead in the matter signed by Shri Piyush Chand Gupta in his official
 capacity. The relevant extract of the same is as under: The said RTI queries and CPIO's reply to the same stand reproduced as under: the DDG, UlDAl, Regional Office Ranchi who provided as per
 is/were Reporting/Controlling Authority w.r.t. Section 8(1Xh) of Page 13 of 46 Dr. Krishna Deo Prasad Sahu IFS (Kerala- the RTI Act. 2005), ADG/Director, for breach of any
 regulation of the Authority or negligence,
 inefficiency in discharge of the assigned duties
 or violations of any of the provisions of the All
 India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968 and/or
 Unique identification Authority of India
 (Salary, Allowances and other Terms and
 Conditions of Service of Employees)
 Regulations, 2O2O during the period of his
 working at UIDAI w.e.f. 01.11 .2018 till date
7 Furnish certified copy of Note Sheet of the file Copy of notesheet
 and letter/Office Memorandum, of the UIDAI and letter to DoPT
 HQ, New Delhi communicated, if any, as Per dated 14.07 .2022
 procedure laid down by the DoPT i.r.o. the are attached as
 Officers of All India Services working under the Annexure 'E' & 'F'
 Government of India and Organizations under respectively.
 the Government of India and recommending
 with Administrative Exigencies/grounds for
 curtailment of deputation tenure and pre- mature repatriation of the services of Dr.
 Krishna Deo Prasad Sahu IFS (Kerala2005)
 ADG/Director, UIDAI Regional Office, Ranchi (iii) With respect to the RTI Query point no.7, the RTI Appellant himself sought
information regarding the "curtailment of deputation tenure and pre mature
repatriation"[Emphasis supplied/. The reply provided to the RTI appellant in
terms of copies of note sheet and letter to DOPT specifically cover both the
aspects, as asked for in the RTI application. (a) lt is necessary to place on record that the note sheet provided to the RTI
Application was given from note sheet no. 17 onwards since the notings
pertaining to the RT! Appellant's "curtailment of deputation tenure and pre
mature repatiation" were fully dealt with from that note Sheet number
onwards. (b) The file notings prior to notesheet no.17 had no direct and proximate
bearing with the curtailment of deputation tenure and pre-mature repatriation
of the RTI Appellant and were not provided to him since the same were never
sought for in his RTI Application in the first place. This is itself evidence of lhe
bona fides of undersigned as CPIO, UIDAI and of FAA, UIDAI who were
committed to provide all admissible information under the purview of the RTI
Act, 2005 . (iv) With regard to RTI Query point no.4, a perusal of the RTI reply qua point
no. 7 (copy of note sheet from noting no. 17 onwards and letter to DOPT
Dated14.07.2022) were already placed on record and provided to RTI
appellant which revealed that UIDAI on the basis of non performance of the
RTI Appellant as reported by his controlling officer i.e. DDG(RO),Ranchi, had
initiated the case lor "curtailment of deputation tenure and pre mature
repatriation" and placed it before DOPT for its approval! which is in the nature
of a punitive administrative action against the RT! Appellant by UIDAI. (a) Hence, in terms of the exemption under section 8(1Xh) , CPIO came to the
conclusion that the information would either impede or may cause reasonable
apprehension in taking of an impartial and an unbiased decision by DOpT with
regard to "curtailment of deputation tenure and pre mature repatriation" of
the RTI Appellant. b) The entire process of deputation tenure posting of Group A Civil Servants, to
be appointed by ACC, necessarily mandates that DoPT, Gol is the nodal agency
with regard to appointments through deputation as well as curtailment of
deputation tenure/pre mature repatriation of these officers. (c) Resultantly, till the time DOPT does not formally approve curtailment of
deputation tenure/pre mature repatriation of a Group A civil servant (like the
RTI Appellant herein), no prejudice whatsoever in terms of stigma/penal
consequences/service tenure can be said to be visited upon the said
deputationist. (d) Moreover, in the instant case it is an admitted position that the RTI
Appellant served his entire Five year Deputation period between 2018 and
ZO23 with UIDAI and did not face any "curtailment of deputation tenure and
pre mature repatriation" since UIDAI's proposal to DoPT, Gol remained
pending. ln light of the above, undersigned as CPIO, UIDAI has sought to deny disclosure
of information in terms of his interpretation of statutory recognized exemption
under section 8(1)(h) of the RTI act for which no personal/professional
malafide can be attributable to CPIO whatsoever. (v) It is the settled law that where more than one views/interpretations with
regard to applicability of a statute are possible, the mere fact that the
statutory body adopts one of these views to the exclusion of others, he/she can
not be held to have acted mala fide. Reliance is placed on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in (a) Onkar Lal Baiai v. ltOl (2003) 2 SCC 673 para 27 ( b) Union of India v. Harieet Singh Sandhu (2001) 5 SCC 593 para 42 (c) Siemens Public Communication Network (P) Ltd. v. UOI 2008 16 SCC 215
 para 38 and 40 Page 15 of 46 (d) s sethuraman v. R. Venkataraman (2007) 2 SCC 382 para 17 (vi) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Namit Sharma v. union of India (2013), SCC
l4i para gB-1OO categorically held that the functions specified under Section
8(1Xh) of the RTI Act, 2OO5 may be performed by a legally trained mind more
efficaciously. The undersigned as Directo(HR) and CPIO UIDA! was from the HR
Department and not from the Legal Department of UIDAI and hence cannot be
faulted for interpreting Section 8(1Xh) in a way so as to deny information qua
RTI query No. 4 made by the RTI Appellant. (vii) ln fact in his written submission the then CPIO, UIDAI has, in deference to
the earlier order dated 11.01 .2024 passed by this Hon'ble Commission
directing full disclosure of information w.r.t. RTI Application query No. 4 and 7
acknowledged that his earlier interpretation of non-disclosure under Section
8(1)(h) to be erroneous and given full disclosure which is proof of his bona
fides. (viii) lt is the settled law that for an act to be vitiated by mala fide, the action
must be arbitrary and capricious where, a person in authority does any action
based on individual discretion by ignoring prescribed rules, procedure or law
and the action or decision is founded on prejudice or preference rather than
reason or fact. Io be termed as arbitrary and capricious , the action must be
illogical and whimsical, something without reasonable explanation. Reliance is
placed on the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Sanchit Bansal v. Joint
Admission Board (2012) , SCC 157 para 28
B. MISREPRESENTATION OF FACTS/FRAUD UTILIZED BY RTI APPELLANT
MALAFIDES NOT ESTABLISHED (i) Misrepresentation of facts/fraud has been adopted by RTI Appellant before
this Hon'ble Commission, resulting in imposition of penalty on the undersigned
as CPIO, UIDAI which renders the order void-ab-inifo as per the settled
principle of fraus et jus nunquam cohabitant and under section M of lndian Evidence Act . (ii) The appellant has misrepresented many facts during the course of seeking
the information and also during the personal hearings, like: A. lt is respectfully submitted that the RTl Application has made a false and
erroneous submission before this Hon'ble Commission and his act is an
attempt to mislead and misguide this Hon'ble Commission. B. The UIDAI Regional Office, Ranchi is a full fledged office of UIDAI which is
having its own Head of Office (HOO), who takes the decision regarding the
state of affairs under his jurisdiction. C. The undersigned as Directo(HR) & the then CPIO and FAA, UIDA! were not
involved the internal matters of UIDAI Regional Office, Ranchi and no orders
were ever issued either by CPIO or by FAA for giving the additional charge of
Patna unit to the appellant. (b) The RTI Appellant has further submitted, falsely and willfully misled this
Hon'ble Commission by wrongly submitting that the Controlling Officer who
attributed non-performance to the RTI Appellant was not the Controlling
Officer for the UIDAI Regional Office at Ranchi but was the controlling officer
for Patna Regional Office of UIDAI to which RTI Application was given
additional charge. A. The factual position is that the controlling officer of the RTI appellant was
his Controlling Officer for both the Locations i.e. UIDAI Regional Office Ranchi
as well as UIDAI Regional Office Patna and was responsible for the state of
affairs for both the locations. B. The Head of Office (HOO) of Regional Office Ranchi, headed by Joint
Secretary or equivalent level officer (and the controlling officer of the RTI
appellant) has the jurisdiction of three states, namely, Bihar, Jharkhand and
West Bengal and hence, exercised full powers and competence to monitoring
the performance of all the Directors reporting to him, including the RTI
Appellant and to distribute the charge amongst them. (c)The RTI Appellant has further submitted, falsely and misled this Hon'ble
Commission deliberately that then CPIO & FAA UIDAI and Controlling Officer of
the RTI Appellant were working in tandem to harass him as he had begun
pointing out misdeeds by these three. A. The undersigned as Directo(HR) and the then CPIO and FAA, UIDA! are
discharging their duties with full devotion, sincerity and honesty.
B. Such allegations have never been mentioned in his RTI Application as well as
First Appeal or otherwise against CPIO/FAA. C. lt is very clear that this allegation is an afterthought of the RTI appellant to
somehow portray himself as a victim and gain the sympathy of this Hon'ble
Commission. D. !t is further falsely fabricated by the appellant that CPIO and FAA had the
intention to harm him and also acted on that intention. ln the present case, it
is actually undersigned as the then CPIO and FAA, UIDAI are being framed
falsely by appellant, just to prove his wrong acts right before the commission. E. Further, undersigned as CPIO have been deprived of opportunity for putting
the facts on these false allegations leveled by the appellant with the mala fide
intention on his end, reasons of which are best known to him. (iii) This Hon'ble Commission's kind attention is brought to the judgment of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of lndia in lndian Rly. Construction Co. Ltd. v. Ajay
Kumar , (2003) 4 SCC 579 para 23 wherein it has been decided that the burden
of establishing mala - fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it. The
allegations of mala - fides are often more easily made than proved, and the
very seriousness of such allegations demands proof of a high order of
credibility
 "23. Doubtless, he who seeks to invalidate or nullify any act or order must
establish the charge of bad faith, an abuse or a misuse by the authority of ifs
powers. While the indirect motive or purpose, or bad faith or personal ill will is
not to be held established except on clear proof thereof, it is obviously difficult
to establish the state of a man's mind, for that is what the employee has to
establish in this case, though this may sometimes be done. The difficulty is not
lessened when one has to establish that a person apparently acting on the
legitimate exercise of power has, in fact, been acting mala fide in the sense of
pursuing an illegitimate aim. lt is not the law that mala fides in the sense of
improper motive should be established only by direct evidence. But it must be
discernible from the order impugned or must be shown from the established
surrounding factors which preceded the order. lf bad faith would vitiate the
order, the same can, in our opinion, be deduced as a reasonable and
inescapable inference from proved facts. (See S. Partap Singh v. State of
Punjab .) lt cannot be overlooked that the burden of establishing mala fides is
very heavy on the person who alleges it. The allegations of mala fides are
often more easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of such
allegations demands proof of a high order of credibility. As noted by this Court
in R.P. Royappa y. State of T.N., courts would be slow to draw dubious
inferences from incomplete facts placed before it by a party, particularly when
the imputations are grave and they are made against the holder of an office
which has a high responsibility in the administration. (iv) The RTI Appellant has misrepresented before this Hon'ble Commission,
hence the Final Order dated 23.05.2024 to the extent it attributes mala fide on
the then CPIO & FAA, UIDAI stands vitiated as has been enshrined in the
principle behind Section 44 of the Evidence Act. lt is settled law that fraud
vitiates every solemn act and the same is rendered non esf and void ab initio in
the eyes of law. a. Ganpatbhai Mahijinhai Solanki v. State of Gujarat (2008) 12 SCC 353
b. Ranganayakamma v. K.S Prakash (2008) 15 SCC 673 Page 18 of 46 c. Rani Akola Dudhoria v. Gautam Dudhoria (2009) ,3 SCC 569
d. Tanna & Modi v. CIT (2007) 7 SCC 434 (v) Undersigned as CPIO, UIDAI was never provided with a opportunity to
present his case against allegations personal bias/mala fide made by the RTI
Appellant and recorded by this Hon'ble Commission in the Final order dated
23.05.2024. lt is settled law that Audi alteram Partum [right to be heard] is
part of Principles of Natural justice and quasi judicial order denying right to be
heard is null and void. a. R.B Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fatehchand Narsingh Das v. Settlement
Commission [1989] , SCR 335
C. RTI Appellant cannot be entitled to relief beyond pleadings made before
CPIO/FAA (i) It is respectfully submitted that the RTI Appellant could not be entitled to be
granted relief beyond what he specifically sought in his application with regard
to RTI Query point no. 7. (ii) He specifically and categorically asked for the copies of note sheet with
regard to his curtailment of deputation tenure and premature repatriation,
which were provided to him in the first instance itself by the then CPIO, UlDAl. (iii) lt is settled law that a party must be bound by his pleadings (a) Ranbir Singh c. Executive Engineer (2011) ,5 SCC 453 para 6-7
D. No actual mala-fide can be attributed to CPIO (i) No actual mala-fide can be attributed to authorities under the scheme of RTI Act when they seek to deny disclosing information in terms of exemptions
statutorily provided under section 8(1)(h) of RTI Act. (ii) As stated above where two interpretations of a provision ( Section 8(1Xh) of
the Act in the present case) can be construed with reasonableness by
CPIO/FAA, there cannot be any mala-fide sought to be attributed specially in a
case where there is no evidence to demonstrate personal/professional bias
exhibited against RTI Appellant at the instance of CPIO, given the fact that RTI
appellant was engaged with UIDAI related operations in Ranchi while
undersigned as CPIO is discharging functions at UIDAI Head Office in New
Delhi. (iii) Reliance is placed on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court that file
notings cannot be relied to prove and hold that the ultimate decision of the
Government is tainted by mala fide. (a) Jasbir Singh Chhabra y. State of Punjab (2010) 4 SCC 192 para 35 and 37 (iv) The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Namit Sharma v. Union of lndia (2013), SCC
745 para 98-106 categorically held that the functions specified under Section
8(1Xh) of the RT! Act, 2005 may be performed by a legally trained mind more
efficaciously. Undersigned as CPIO UIDAI was from the HR Department and not Page 19 of 46 from the Legal Department of UIDAI and hence cannot be faulted for
interpreting Section 8(1)(h) in a way so as to deny information qua RTI query
No. 4 made by the RTI Appellant. (v) ln fact in the written submission of undersigned as CPIO UIDAI has, in
deference to the earlier order dated 1 1.01 .2024 passed by this Hon'ble
Commission directing fu!! disclosure of information w.r.t. RTI Application query
No. 4 and 7 has acknowledged that his earlier interpretation of non-disclosure
under Section 8(1Xh) to be erroneous and given full disclosure which is proof of
his bona fides. E. RTI Appellant failed to demonstrate anv actual preiudice/loss/damaqe
arisinq out of bonafide non-disclosure
i. It is also being put on record that although the contents of the confidential
letter asked for in point no. 4 were covered in the reply given to RTI Appellant
against point no. 7, and also the reply as made available against information
sought under point no. 7 was adequate and enough, even to comply with the
orders issued by the commission on 1 1.01.2024, all the other information
whatsoever was available in the office was also made available to the
appellant. This demonstrated the bona fides on the part of undersigned as
CPIO UIDAI. ii. Even this Hon'ble Commission has recorded that the RTI/Appellant is
satisfied with the supplied information and the earlier order of this Hon'ble
Commission dated 11.01.2024 stood complied with. iii. As far as delay of supplying explicit information against point no. 4 and
partial expticit information against point no.7, and damage to the appellant
resultantly as claimed by him, it is put on record that the RTI Appellant had
already initiated the action, as deemed fit to him based on the information
supplied to him dated 21.09.2022 as the given information was adequate and
enough and no damages resulted to him, as has been claimed falsely by the
appellant. iv. The RTI Appellant has not been visited with any disciplinary/penal
consequences viz "curtailment of deputation tenure and pre mature
repatriation" in connection with which the RTI query was made by him.
F. Parity Claimed with Final order dated 17.05.2024 passed by this Hon'ble
Commission - Similar case pertaining to the same parties - No penalty given
i. ln a similar case, where same RTI appellant has also approached CIC with his
second appeal,( Second Appeal No. CIC/UIDAll2O23l6OO694), the Hon'ble
Chief Information Commissioner, New Delhi has disposed off this second
appeal with the directions to CPIO to forward a copy of his latest written
submission to the appellant and to submit a compliance report in this regard
before the commission subsequently(Copy of CIC order enclosed). ii. Hon'ble CIC has further declared that no further intervention of the
commission is required in the matter. iii. It is hereby submitted that both the case are identical in nature but in one
case ( before Hon'ble CIC), case has been disposed off with the directions to
forward a copy of latest written submission of CPIO to the appellant and to
submit a compliance report in this regard before the commission while in
another case ( viz. the present case) mala fide has been established on part of
CPIO and FAA and penalty has been imposed as per section 20(1) of RTI Act.
iv. Doctrine of parity along with principles of fairness, non-arbitrariness and
reasonableness enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution have, therefore,
been violated in the present case. v. It is also submitted that in other three appeals also filed by the same
appellant, in which CPIO/FAA were the officers of Regional Office, Ranchi,
Hon'ble CIC has taken the similar views and passed the similar orders in line
with the second appeal no. CIC/U1DA1120231600694, as mentioned above.
G. lt is also necessary to put on record that the entire RT! Application was filed
to destroy the smooth Administrative functions of personne! with UIDAI and to
put the pressure and to hinder the process initiated by UIDA! for the
curtailment of deputation tenure and pre mature repatriation of the RTI
Appellant when admittedly the nodal agency for curtailment of deputation
tenure and pre mature repatriation is DOPT before which UIDAI had put to
notice its notings and correspondences. lt is also a fact that no bias or
prejudice of CPIO/FAA has been established/ done against RTI appellant.
Further, the appellant has completed his normal deputation in UIDAI on 31
10.2023 and thus relieved from UIDAI in a normal course of proceedings. lt is,
in fact, undersigned as CPIO in the present case who will suffer by this instant
decision of the commission, both in terms of mental stigma and in monetary
terms.Further, this decision will cause grave harm to the services of
undersigned as CPIO and irreparable loss to my reputation.
ln view of the facts and submissions put forth as above before the Hon'ble ClC,
principles of Actus Curiae Neminem Gravabit are invoked as no
prejudice/harm/damage has been done against RTI appellant either by
undersigned as CPIO or by FAA and while on the other side, it is undersigned as
CPIO who is the real sufferer, mentally as well as monetarily by the present
decision. Principle of Parens Patriae is also invoked in the present case as two different
types of orders have been pronounced on the similar cases.
PRAYER
ln the light of the above facts and submissions, it is prayed to kindly revoke the
penalty of Rs. 10,000/- imposed in as such as no mala fide whatsoever is Page 21 of 46 forthcoming and in another similar case, Hon'ble CIC has not held the intent of
 undersigned as CPIO mala fide. It is further prayed to kindly put the orders dated 24.05.2024, stayed, till the
 final disposal of my prayer." XI. In compliance with the directions of the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, the
 Commission issued a hearing notice dated 02.06.2025 to the Applicant
 organization in the W.P. (C) No. 3019/2025 through its CEO and the
 Respondents concerned in the RTI Second Appeal in CIC, namely: Appellant was also given an opportunity of being heard. XII. The Registry of this Bench had sought comments from the Respondents
 concerned in the instant matter. It is noted that none of the above
 Respondents concerned has provided their comments to the Bench. The
 then CPIO and deemed CPIO who were penalized by the CIC chose not to
 file their comments. However, Shri Jyotiranjan Moharana, CPIO-cum-
 Director, in compliance with the notice of the Commission, provided the
 following reply dated 19.06.2025: mentioned impugned order. 6. Though the aforesaid representation was filed by the CPIO and FAA
however, in compliance with the directions laid down by the Hon'ble
Information Commissioner, under protest, the CPIO and FAA, deposited Rs.
10,000/- each. The compliance of the said order was duly informed to the
concerned authority by CPIO and FAA vide letter dated 12.07.2024. 7. Aggrieved by the order of Hon'ble information Commissioner dated
24.05.2024 und also for not considering the representations of the
respondents dated 25.06.2024, a Writ Petition (W.P. (C) No.3019/2025) was
filed before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi challenging the order bearing
CIC/NITIA/A/2022-669319 dated 24.05.2024 passed by Central Information
Commission 8. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi after hearing the submissions of the Counsel
for the respondent disposed off the said writ petition vide its order dated
17.04.2025 observing as under: In this regard reference is apposite to the view expressed by the coordinate
Bench of this Court in Registrar of Companies and Ors vs Dharmendra Kumar
Garg and Anr , 2012 SCC DeLine Del 3263. Same read as under: The CIC is requested to decide the same as expeditiously as possible 9. In the light of the above facts and submissions, it is respectfully prayed to
 kindly decide the representations filed by the CPIO & FAA dated 25.6.2024
 seeking modification of order dated 24.05.2024 and request to revoke the
 penalty of Rs.10,000/-each on CPIO and FAA as there was no malafide on the
 part of the CPIO & FAA as also observed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi.
 Further, the said penalty of Rs. 10,000/-each (Rs 20,000/) imposed on CPIO &
 FAA may please he directed to be released to the respondents." Relevant facts emerged during hearing on 26.06.2025: None appeared on behalf of Respondent No. 2 namely Shri Atul Kumar
 Chaudhary, the then FAA and Respondent No. 3 CEO/UIDAI namely Shri
 Bhuvnesh Kumar. Appellant: Present through VC. XIII. The Appellant stated that Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then CPIO and
 Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA, have deliberately suppressed
 the information under the garb of Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act. When
 the matter reached the CIC, and the Respondent could not produce any
 documentary evidence to substantiate the exemptions claimed by both of
 them under Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act, their mala fide intent not only
 came to light but also was established through the records because they
 could not produce a single document to sustain their claiming exemption
 at the relevant time. It is only after the directions passed by the CIC along
 with the SCN that they have provided the information but after a delay of
 more than one and half years from the date of RTI Application depriving
 him of seeking judicial remedy at the relevant time. XIV. Shri Vipin Jai, Advocate, appearing on behalf of UIDAI, stated that in
 compliance with the previous direction dated 24.05.2024 passed by the
 Commission, Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar
 Chaudhary, the then FAA, have paid the penalty amount but the same has
 been paid under protest and they have given their written submissions to
 the Commission in this regard on 12.07.2024. He asked the Bench to
 decide their representation dated 25.06.2024, seeking modification of the
 Final Order dated 24.05.2024, passed by the Commission and further
 requesting the Commission to revoke the penalty imposed on the erring
 the then CPIO and FAA. He further submitted that in the instant
 proceedings, the Commission has to only decide their representation and
 issuing hearing notice to the Appellant is totally uncalled for. XV. The Commission interjected and remarked that issuing a hearing notice to
 both the parties is a crucial aspect of ensuring fairness and transparency
 in quasi-judicial and judicial proceedings. If one party is not given a fair
 and equal opportunity to present their case before the Commission, it
 would cause prejudice and bias, which is against the due process of law.
 Appellant has not assailed the decision of the Bench as he was satisfied
 with the same and now considering any representation against the
 penalty in the absence of the Appellant would outrightly be a
 manipulation at his back which will amount to compromising Appellant's
 right to seek judicial intervention. XVI. Both the parties sought two weeks' time to file additional written
 submissions, and the Bench acceded to their request. XVII. After conclusion of the hearing, a written submission has been received
 from the Appellant vide letter dated 02.07.2025, with a copy sent to the
 Respondent. The relevant extract of the same is as under: 14.07.2022 requested DoP&T for issuance of necessary relieving orders for
premature repatriation of Shri KDP Sahu, Director, UIDAI, RO Ranchi. The RTI information (Annex.-E), UIDAI Note sheet and (Annex.-F), letter dated- 14. 07. 2022 is enclosed herewith and marked as Annexure-1A &1B. 4. That, it is submitted that the extant rules/guidelines of the Govt. of India,
DoPT, provisions Vigilance considerations are crucial in the premature
repatriation of All India Services (AIS) officers on deputation. Further,
repatriation may also occur due to inadequate performance, lack of integrity,
or other serious grounds. 5. That, the period preceding/intervening to initiation of action by the Human
Resource Division of UIDAI, HQ, New Delhi, headed by Shri Atul Kumar
Choudhary, DDG (HR) and FAA in the instant case, w.r.t. purported reported
non-performance of the Applicant, in the Performance appraisal part of APAR
for Assessment Year-2021-22, the then DDG, UIDAI, RO, Ranchi, who had
keenly observed Applicant's conduct since his joining at UIDAI w.e.f.
01.11.2018, through pen picture had reported that "The Officer is very sincere,
hardworking and bears an amicable personality. He performed his assigned
duties with dedication and discipline. He looked after the state of Jharkhand
for all Aadhaar related works and achieved his targets well on time. For his Page 27 of 46 cool and sober nature, he can be depended upon in times of emergency or
crisis. He has a very good administrative experience and has deep knowledge
about the Government rules and regulations. During the period, he did
exemplary job in opening many model Aadhaar Sewa Kendras (ASKs) in the
state of Jharkhand by physically visiting the sites and handholding in technical
terms. His dedication to work makes him an asset to the organization." And the Certification in the Vigilance Certificate, dated-14.09.2022 of the
UIDAI, RO, Ranchi (which was issued in immediate succeeding period to UIDAI
recommendation, dated-14.07.2022 to DoPT for issuance of order for
premature repatriation)- that... "no vigilance case or disciplinary proceedings
is either pending or being contemplated during his deputation tenure i.e. from
01.11.2018 to till date at UIDAI,RO, Ranchi...). The relevant part of pen picture performance appraisal of PAR (2021-22) and
Vigilance Certificate, dated-14.09.2022 is enclosed herewith and Marked as
Annexure-2A & 2B. 6. That, the CPIO's RTI information, dated-21.09.2022 that "No such document
available with UIDAI, HQ" w.r.t. applicant's query no. 5 (Annexue-3A) and the
Pen picture performance appraisal by the then reporting officer (DDG, Ranchi)
in PAR (2021-22) and vigilance certificate, dated-14.09.2022 (Annexure-
2A82B) clearly established the fact that there have had been "No breach" 7. That the submissions of the Respondents in the instant written submission
and before the Hon'ble High Court that the information sought by the
applicant was duly supplied to him in a time-bound manner and appeal before
the CIC confined only to denial of information sought vide sl. No. 4 and 7 of the
RTI application is misconceived, motivated and fictitious in light of applicant's
factual submission before the Hon'ble CIC under sub para of Para 5 of Second
Appeal Application dated-26.12.2022, which revealed that out of 8 (Eight)
queries, information pertaining to 7 (Seven) queries mentioned in Sl. No.
1,2,3,4,6,7 and 8 of the RTI application, dated-22.08.2022 had not been
satisfactorily attended and or furnished by Shri. Piyush Chand Gupta, Director Page 28 of 46 (HR) & CPIO, HQ, New Delhi vide his RTI Reply, dated-21.09.2022, as such
being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the applicant preferred 1st Appeal on-
17.10.2022. The said 1st Appeal had been disposed of by Shri Atul Kumar
Chaudhary, Deputy Director General & FAA, vide his1st Appeal Reply dated-
14.11.2022 and simply endorsed the reply given by the CPIO in cryptic and
non-speaking manner. The CPIO RTI Reply, dated-21.09.2022 and First Appeal
Reply. dated-14.11.2022 is enclosed herewith and marked as Annexure-3A &
3B. 8. That the sought information at Sl. No. 4 and 7 formed the "Heart /CORE" of
the applicant's RTI Application, dated-22.08.2022 and the information was
very much required by the applicant for exercising his proper administrative/
legal rights/ remedy, in light of the maliciously arbitrary and biased action of
the respondents authority (especially of CPIO/FAA) sans any basis whatsoever
(aforesaid para-5/6 and Annexure-2A & 2B), for recommending premature
repatriation of the Applicant. And, hence, the appeal before the Hon'ble CIC
limited only to partial supply of Notesheet pertaining to information sought at
sl.no. 7 and non-supply of information sought under sl.no. 4, taking unjustified
exemption under sec. 8(h) of the RTI Act. 9. That the submission of the respondents (CPIO/FAA) that error committed in
partial furnishing the information w.r.t. query no. 7 and not furnishing the
information w.r.t. query no. 4 by taking exemption under section 8(1)(h) was a
inadvertent, is misconceived and motivated with sole intention of misleading
the Appellate Authorities (CIC/High Court) and evade the penal provisions of
the RTI Act . 10. That, in order to know the veracity of such statement /submission in
partially furnished UIDAI note-sheet and letter dated-14.07.2022 to DoPT
w.r.t. query no. 7 of RTI Application, dated-22.08.2022 (Annexure-1A & 1B),
another RTI Application, dated-27.10.2022 was filed before the same public
information authority (CPIO-Sh. Piyush Chand Gupta) and being dissatisfied
with his RTI reply 23.11.2022, appealed before FAA (Sh. Atul Kumar
Chaudhary). In reply thereof, arbitrarily denied to furnish information citing
exception of Section 8(h) of RTI Act, 2005 in mechanical manner without
assigning any material reasons, which was also upheld by the Shri Atul Kumar
Chaudhary, DDG (HR Div) & FAA. UIDAI Head Quarter, New Delhi. The said
replies were challenged before the Hon'ble CIC-File No.-
CIC/UIDAI/A/2023/600694, dated-04.01.2023 and notice was issued on
01.05.2024 for scheduled hearing of second appeal held on 17.05.2024. The Page 29 of 46 CPIO RTI Reply, dated-23.11.2022 and First Appeal Reply. dated-22.12.2022 is
enclosed herewith and marked as Annexure-4A & 4B. 11. That, a comparative study /perusal of the Respondents' CPIO RTI Reply,
dated-23.11.2022, FAA Appeal Reply, dated-22.12.2022 (Annexure 4A&4B)
qua- CPIO RTI Reply dated-21.09.2022 and FAA Appeal Reply, dated-
14.11.2022 (Annexure-3A&3B) would made it evident that the respondents
CPIO, Shri Piyush Chand Gupta knowingly and wilfully concealed /suppressed
the information already in his possession and denied to furnish the
information, by merely citing exception of Section 8(h) of RTI Act, 2005
mechanically without assigning any material reasons, which was also upheld
by the Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, DDG (HR Div) & FAA, UIDAI Head Quarter,
New Delhi by concealing/ suppressing the information in the pretext of Section
8(1)(h) of RTI Act, by misquoting discussion portion of judgement beyond the
judicial findings and thereby assigning baseless and whimsical explanation.
Sans this consideration, Section 8(1)(h) application opted arbitrarily and
maliciously as the haven for dodging demands for information. 12. That it is relevant to mention herein, that the respondents furnished
desired information of sl. No. 4 & 7 of RTI Application, dated-22.08.2022 after
nearly 18 months on 30.01.2024, that too, in compliance of the direction of CIC
Order dated-11.01.2024 and w.r.t. RTI Application, dated-27.10.2022, the
sought information was furnished on 13.05.2024/14.05.2024 after a lapse of
19 months, when the appeal before CIC was scheduled for hearing on
17.05.2024. The CPIO RTI Reply, dated-30.01.2024 addressed to Applicant and Revised RTI
reply, dated-14.05.2024 addressed to CIC is enclosed herewith and marked as
Annexure-5A & 5B. 13. That the perusal of revised information, dated-14.05.2024 furnished i.r.o.
RTI Application, dated-27.10.2022, that "as per record, no such document is
available at UIDAI HO" i.r.o. of sought information at Query No.-VIII and XV
(Annexure-5B), revealed the baseless, biased and misleading file notings of
FAA / DDG (HR) (note#20, suitable advisory was issued, but no visible
improvement in performance) and in it's letter 14.07.2022, that Holistic review
of performance conducted and decided to prematurely repatriate the
applicant (Annexure-1A & 18), which also manifests the malicious intention of
the respondents to keep the applicant in dark with ulterior motive of willfully
concealing/ suppressing the information in the pretext of Section 8(1)(h) of RTI
Act and/ or partial disclosure of information. 14. That, this is settled position in law that the exemption under section 8(1) (h) is not absolute and requires a demonstration that disclosure would actually
 hamper an ongoing investigation, Public interest considerations can also
 weigh in favor of disclosure, even if an investigation is ongoing. 15. That, the respondents, while discharging the Administrative responsibilities
 were very well aware that there was No investigation whatsoever, initiated/
 pending against the applicant nor there was any purported non-performance
 in discharge of his duties. However, initiated and concluded the extreme steps
 of Applicant's premature repatriation. Subsequently, while discharging the
 entrusted responsibilities of the RTI Act , the respondents with malafide
 intention and ulterior motive of precluding the applicant from exercising his
 fundamental and natural rights to know the basis of initiation and conclusion
 of coercive measures of premature repatriation taken against him, knowingly
 denied/suppressed the sought information, which was admittedly not covered
 under exemption provisioned under Sec. 8(1)(h) of the RTI Act, which caused
 prejudice to the applicant's right to take proper administrative/legal remedy
 and also casted Stigma on his unblemished career of Public servant (Annexure-
 2A & 2B) in light of the baseless and biased action of the authority (Annexure-
 1B). Under the circumstances, it is, therefore, humbly prayed that for the end of
 justice, your honour may be pleased to accept the aforesaid facts and to
 submissions of the preceding paragraphs and be pleased "Dismiss the
 Respondents' Representation, dated-25.06.2024 and Written submission,
 dated- NIL, which have been heard on 26.06.2025 with costs." XVIII. After conclusion of the hearing, a written submission has been received
 from Shri Jyotiranjan Moharana, CPIO-cum-Director, vide letter dated
 09.07.2025, with a copy sent to the Appellant. The relevant extract of the
 same is as under: mentioned impugned order. 6. Though the aforesaid representation was filed by the CPIO and FAA;
however, in compliance with the directions laid down by the Hon'ble
Information Commissioner, under protest, the CPIO and FAA, deposited
Rs.10,000/- each. The compliance of the said order was duly informed to the
concerned authority by CPIO and FAA vide letter dated 12.07.2024. 7. Aggrieved by the order of Hon'ble Information Commissioner dated
24.05.2024 and also for not considering the representations of the
respondents dated 25.06.2024, a Writ Petition (W.P. (C) No.3019/2025) was
filed before the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi challenging the order bearing
CIC/NITIA/A/2022/669319 dated 24.05.2024 passed by Central Information
Commission. 8. The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi after hearing the submissions of the Counsel
for the respondent disposed of the said writ petition vide its order dated
17.04.2025 observing as under: 19. In the circumstances, it is incumbent on CIC to consider the attendant facts
 and circumstances to assess whether the conduct of the CPIO/FAA is egregious
 so as to entail levying of penalty under Section 20 of the RTI Act. 20. A representation/application in this regard has already been submitted by
 the petitioner on 25.06.2024. In the circumstances, it would be apposite if the
 said application is duly considered and decided by the CIC taking into account
 the facts and circumstances as highlighted therein. It is directed accordingly.
 The CIC is requested to decide the same as expeditiously as possible." 12. The written submission of the appellant Dt.02.07.2025 does not contain
 any new facts and all the issues raised therein have already been deliberated
 before present Hon'ble Information Commissioner earlier and hence, do not
 change any status of facts and submissions already available with the present
 Hon'ble Information Commissioner. 13. In the light of the above facts and submissions, it is respectfully prayed to
 kindly decide the representations filed by the CPIO & FAA dated 25.6.2024
 seeking modification of order dated 24.05.2024 and request to revoke the
 penalty of Rs.10,000/- each on CPIO and FAA as there was no malafide on the
 part of the CPIO & FAA as also observed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi.
 Further, the said penalty of Rs.10,000/- each (Rs.20,000/) imposed on CPIO &
 FAA may please be directed to be released to the respondents." Observations: XX. The Commission also observes that vide order dated 24.05.2024, a
 penalty amounting to Rs. 10,000/- each was imposed on the individuals,
 namely Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar
 Chaudhary, the then FAA and not on the Respondent Public Authority i.e.
 UIDAI. However, instead of the penalized individuals approaching the
 Hon'ble High Court in their individual capacities, the organization i.e. Page 36 of 46 UIDAI filed the Writ in the Hon'ble High Court challenging the order of
 CIC. Thus, the party in the Writ Petition WP (C) No. 3019/2025, is the
 Respondent Public Authority i.e. UIDAI and not the penalized individuals.
 Accordingly, the Commission in compliance with the direction of the
 Hon'ble High Court, issued hearing notice dated 02.06.2025, to the
 Respondents concerned, namely, (i) Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then
 CPIO -cum -Director (HR); (ii) Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, deemed PIO-
 cum-the then FAA; and (iii) Shri Bhuvnesh Kumar, CEO/UIDAI, asking for
 their comments. None of the Respondents concerned provided any
 written explanation to the Bench and has very smartly asked the
 incumbent CPIO Shri Jyotiranjan Moharana, CPIO-cum-Director to file
 written submission to the Bench. XXI. It is also pertinent to mention that Respondent No. 2 and 3 i.e. Shri Atul
 Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA and Shri Bhuvnesh Kumar, CEO/UIDAI,
 have abstained themselves from appearing in the hearing before the
 Commission. XXII. It is also noted that the averred penalty amount was ordered to be
 deducted from the salaries of each of the two i.e. Shri Piyush Chand
 Gupta, the then CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA, by
 the Respondent Public Authority. However, Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the
 then CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA, vide letter dated
 12.07.2024 have uploaded a copy of two Demand Drafts bearing No.
 '502609' and '502610', wherein it is noted that both the DDs' have been
 purchased in the individual capacity by Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then
 CPIO and not by Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary for his own part. Thus, the
 Respondent Public Authority failed to recover the penalty amount from
 the respective salaries of penalized officers. All these observations prima
 facie indicate that something is amiss. There clearly is an attempt to pay
 the penalty amount from sources other than salary which is a serious
 deviation from the established official procedure given in the CIC decision
 and subversion of recovering the penalty from salary. Unfortunately, the
 Respondent Public Authority has been made party to such devious
 machinations by apparent misuse of official position by one of them. The
 penalty was therefore deservedly imposed on them. XXIII. As far as the role of the Respondent Organization is concerned, it was
 limited to deducting the penalty amount from the 'SALARY/PENSION' of
 the penalized officers in TWO EQUAL INSTALMENTS. The Orders of CIC in
 matter of monetary penalty are always specific with the objective of
 bringing the factum of penalty on record. The Central Information
 Commission (CIC) follows a specific procedure when imposing penalties
 on Public Information Officers (PIOs) under the Right to Information
 (RTI) Act . The CIC in its various previous orders have established
 precedents regarding deposit of penalty amounts like in case file No.
 CIC/YA/A/2014/000594, decided on 08.01.2015, passed following order: XXIV. In the instant case also, it was clearly directed that this penalty amount
 should be deducted from the salaries/pension of each of the two i.e.
 Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary,
 deemed CPIO/the then FAA, by the Public Authority in two equal
 installments as specified in CIC's order (first installment in the month of
 July 2024 and second installment in the month of August 2024) and paid Page 38 of 46 by way of demand draft drawn in favour of "PAO, CAT", New Delhi,
 forward the demand drafts addressed to the Deputy Registrar (CR-II),
 email: [email protected] Room No. 106, First Floor, Central Information
 Commission, Baba Gangnath Marg, Munirka, New Delhi 110067". It is
 noted that instead of depositing first installment amounting to Rs. 5,000/-
 each from their salaries, Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then CPIO and Shri
 Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA, vide letter dated 12.07.2024 have
 uploaded a copy of two Demand Drafts bearing No. '502609' and '502610'
 of Rs. 10,000/- each, wherein it is recorded that both the DDs' have been
 purchased in the individual capacity by Shri Piyush Chand Gupta, the then
 CPIO and not by Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary for his own part. Date of
 issuance of Demand Draft i.e. 12.07.2024, clearly establishes that it has
 not been recovered from the salaries. Thus, the Respondent Public
 Authority failed to recover the penalty amount from the respective
 salaries of penalized officers. It is pertinent to mention that Penalty
 imposed on a government employee is typically reflected in their service
 record and can impact their career advancement. The details about an
 employee's pay, allowances, deductions, and other relevant financial
 information, Disciplinary actions, including penalties of stoppage of
 increments etc. is usually mentioned in the Last Pay Certificate (LPC). It is
 further noted that after passing of the Commission's order on dated
 24.05.2024, Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA has been relieved
 by the Respondent Public Authority and he has joined the Telecom
 Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) as Secretary in the month of June
 2024. There is nothing on records of the Commission which shows that
 penalty amount has been deducted from their individual salaries, and the
 Commission apprehends that Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, then FAA, has
 concealed this factum while joining a different organization and has made
 every possible effort that penalty imposed upon him by the Commission
 should not be mentioned in his LPC records. All these shenanigans and
 subversive tactics adopted by the penalized officers prima facie indicate
 continued mala fide. XXV. It is pertinent to mention that the penalty is imposed on officers in their
 individual capacity and not on the organization concerned. But UIDAI on
 one hand has filed to recover penalty amount from salary and on the
 other have approached the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in Writ Petition Page 39 of 46 No. 3019/2025 and hence, its locus in the case is not established. It is
 beyond comprehension as to 'in which capacity' the penalized officer has
 approached the Hon'ble High Court through their organization. Since
 there is nothing on record which proves that the Respondent
 Organization has deducted the penalty amount from the Salary of the
 penalized officers. There clearly is a continued attempt to evade the
 factum of PENALTY NOT COMING ON RECORD. Such a serious deviation
 can happen only when at least a director level officer hoodwinks the
 system. The CEO, UIDAI would be well advised to look into it personally
 and to facilitate the same, let a copy of this decision be served on him by
 name. From this aspect also the attempt to subvert the system, deceit
 and mischief with mala fide intent and evade responsibility continues
 even today. XXVI. From the documents available on record the orders of CIC dated
 24.5.20024 in this case ARE NOT YET COMPLIED WITH BY THE UIDAI due
 to pending "deduction from SALARY/PENSION" of the penalized officers.
 Therefore, the assertion that the CIC Orders are complied with UNDER
 PROTEST is neither based on facts of the case nor are bona fide in intent;
 hence, cannot be taken as true. The Orders of CIC dated 24.5.2024 are
 still unimplemented by the UIDAI. XXVII. If penalty amount is allowed/accepted to be paid by any other mode than
 deduction from salary there is an eminent possibility when officers will be
 protesting deducting and at the same time 'someone' on their behalf will
 deposit the penalty amount. There are several such organizations where
 the contractors or clients will be more than willing to oblige with or
 without the knowledge and consent of the penalized officer. Decision with regard to representation dated 25.06.2024: XXIX. The Commission would like to point out that in the averred
 representation dated 25.06.2024, the Respondent Public Authority is
 seeking modification of the Final Order dated 24.05.2024, passed by the
 Commission and further requesting the Commission to revoke the penalty
 imposed on the erring the then CPIO and FAA. In this regard, the
 Commission finds it pertinent to rely upon a judgement of Hon'ble High
 Court of Delhi in the matter of Delhi Development Authority vs Central
 Information Commission, W.P. (C) No. 12714/2009, dated 21.05.2010,
 wherein the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi has held as under: XXX. It is also pertinent to mention that the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature at
 Bombay, Nagpur Bench, in the matter of Dominic vs. State Information
 Commission , in W.P. No. 2522/2016, dated 26.06.2019, has held as under: XXXI. In view of the above decisions, the Hon'ble High Courts have time and
 again made it clear that the RTI Act does not empower the Information
 Commissions under the RTI Act to review and modify their own orders.
 Further, the Legislature while passing the statute has made it clear that Page 42 of 46 'The decision of the Central Information Commission or State Information
 Commission, as the case may be, shall be binding' under Section 19 (7) of
 the RTI Act and is not subject to further discussion or change or review or
 modify by the Information Commission, and it carries legal weight and
 enforceability. The RTI Act does not empower the Information
 Commissioners to either modify or review their own orders. XXXII. However, the Respondent Public Authority vide representation dated
 25.06.2024 is seeking modification of order passed by the Commission
 which is contravention of the statute as well as to the precedents of
 superior Courts. In the previous hearing held on 15.05.2024, it was clearly
 established that the denial under Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act in
 providing the information to the Appellant by Shri Piyush Chand Gupta,
 the then CPIO and Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary, the then FAA, was
 deliberate, not expressly covered under Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act
 and the information was not provided to the Appellant at the initial stage
 with a mala fide intent. The information sought by the appellant was
 related to his premature repatriation which was denied by the
 Respondents by claiming exemption under section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act.
 However, the Respondents while replying to the RTI application and the
 first appeal failed to explain as to how the disclosure of information
 would fall within the said exempted provisions. The Respondents during
 the previous hearing admitted their mistake for wrongly claiming
 exemption under section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act. The Commission finds
 merit in the Appellant's argument challenging denial of information citing Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act, without any justification. It is pertinent to
 note that numerous decisions have been passed by the Courts holding
 from time to time that simply citing Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act is
 perverse in law and untenable as such. In this regard the Commission
 would like to reply to the judgement of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in
 the case of Bhagat Singh vs Chief Information Commissioner [146(2008)DLT385], passed on 03.12.2007, with the following
 observation: The Hon'ble Delhi High Court vide its decision dated 03.06.2011 in the
 case of B S Mathur vs Public Information Officer [W. P. (C ) 295/2011] has
 held as follows: Thus, denial of information by the Respondent by merely claiming
 exemption under Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act is legally untenable
 under the scope of the RTI Act , particularly when no investigation was
 ever launched let alone its continuation while replying to the RTI
 Application. XXXIII. Therefore, the Commission concludes that the final order passed on
 24.05.2024 by the Commission, is justified, fair and needs no
 modification. Even the subsequent developments as noted in the
 observations in this decision indicate continued subversion of the lawful
 provisions. Accordingly, the Commission cannot review or modify its
 decision as requested in the representation dated 25.06.2024 filed by
 the Respondent Public Authority. XXXIV. Penalty was imposed due to an undeniable falsification, deceit, abuse of
 authority and disingenuity applied in the denial by blatant wrongful claim
 to exemption by the then PIO and deemed PIO that is the then FAA, which
 is again visible even in the falsified compliance with CIC Orders dated
 24.5.2024 in terms of (a) non-deduction of penalty amount from salary; (b) one of the penalized officers making payment through Demand Draft
 on behalf of both the penalized officers; (c) Payment of penalty amount
 through a single installment instead of recovery in two equal installments
 from salary; (d) NOT BRINGING THE FACTUM OF PENALTY ON RECORD;
 and (e) embroiling the Respondent Organization in the subversion of CIC
 decision by involving it as a party, which can happen only by misuse of
 power at least at the Director level. Accordingly, the matter is brought to
 the NOTICE of the CEO, UIDAI to look into it personally and to recover the
 penalty amount from SALARY by serving a copy of this decision on him by
 name. XXXV. As discussed above, the Central Information Commission (CIC) does not
 have power to review its own decisions. Even if for a moment it is
 assumed that the CIC had this power, in view of above narrated continued
 mala fide, abuse of one's official position and evasion to comply with RTI
 Act in letter and spirit and order there under, this case would have been a
 fit case not only for rejection of representation but also for enhancement
 of penalty. Thus, the order of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in W.P.(C) 3019/2025 in the
 case titled "Unique Identification Authority of India v/s Central Information
 Commission, New Delhi dated 17.04.2025, are complied with. Vinod Kumar Tiwari (िवनोद कुमार ितवारी)
 Information Commissioner (सूचना आयु )
 Authenticated true copy
 (अिभ मािणत स ािपत ित)

 (S. Anantharaman)
 Dy. Registrar
 011- 26181927 1. Shri Piyush Chand Gupta
 Director (HR) and CPIO,
 Unique Identification Authority
 of India, Bangla Sahib Road,
 Behind Kali Mandir, Gole Market,
 New Delhi - 110001 Page 45 of 46 2. Shri Atul Kumar Chaudhary
FAA & Deemed PIO,
Unique Identification Authority
of India, Bangla Sahib Road,
Behind Kali Mandir, Gole Market,
New Delhi - 110001 3. Shri Bhuvnesh Kumar
Chief Executive Officer,
Unique Identification Authority
of India, Bangla Sahib Road,
Behind Kali Mandir, Gole Market,
New Delhi - 110001 Page 46 of 46 Recomendation(s) to PA under section 25(5) of the RTI Act, 2005:-