The present application is filed under Section 482 of

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 seeking anticipatory

bail. 2. Brief facts of the case are as under: 3. The petitioner is A.10 in Crime No.522 of 2024 on the file of

East Tirupati Police Station, Tirupati District filed for the offences

under Sections 2, 353(1)(c), 353(2), 111(2)(b), 196, 336(4),

356(2) read with 49 and 61(2) of BNS, 2023. 4. As per the complaint, posts making derogatory comments

against the present Deputy Chief Minister were spread in social

media and the said posts also contain a female voice and some

of the comments for the said post were likely to create negative

sentiments among different religions. The above crime was

registered on 31.10.2024. 5. In the course of investigation, the Accused A.1 had

confessed that he along with A.2 to A.11 conspired with a

common intention to systematically target rival political groups 3 through creation and dissemination of morphed and fabricated

photos on social media. These manipulated media contained

defamatory, derogatory and abusive comments against political

adversaries. It is further stated that such actions go beyond

defaming the individuals and poses significant threat to public

peace and law and order with a potential to disturb communal

harmony in the State. 6. The offence alleged, in short, was that derogatory/abusive

posts were spread in social media platforms against the rival

political leaders holding Constitutional posts. 7. The offences under which the Petitioner was charged,

barring Section 111 of the BNS, carry maximum sentence of

seven (7) years imprisonment and by default would be entitled to

notice under Section 35(3) of the BNSS, which is in pari materia

with Section 41A of Cr.P.C. as specified by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and another1. 8. As noted above, the only bar for issuing notice under Section 35 of the BNSS is Section 111 of the BNS and the entire 1 (2014) 8 SCC 273 4 arguments revolved around applicability of the said Section to the

facts of the case. 9. Heard Sri Y.Nagi Reddy representing Sri T.M.K.Chaitanya,

learned counsel for the Petitioner and Sri M.Lakshmi Narayana,

Public Prosecutor for the Respondents. 10. Contentions: It is the contention of the learned

counsel for the Petitioner that Section 111 of the BNS is not

attracted to the facts of this case since it requires two

chargesheets to be pending in the past 10 years with reference to

the offences specified in Section 111 of the BNS and in the

absence of any such chargesheets, Section 111 of the BNS is not

attracted. It is their contention that Section 111 of the BNS was

made applicable only with an intent to ensure that there is no

requirement to follow Section 35 of the BNSS and to settle

political scores by arresting the Petitioner. Learned counsel

further contended that the confession of co-accused has

extremely poor evidentiary value and such confessions obtained

in custody can never be relied upon. The learned counsel further

argued that many of the alleged abusive posts were made prior to 5 the onset of the BNS and therefore Section 111 of the BNS

cannot be made applicable to the case. 11. Learned Public Prosecutor in response had produced the

details of the social media posts made by the account holders

and contended that such derogatory posts having been made

solely at the instance of the Petitioner have the effect of

disturbing the harmony in the society. It was further contended

that the confessions made by the account holders/co-accused

were voluntary and they had admitted in detail the role played by

the Petitioner. He also contended that the abusive social media

posts at the instance of rival political party were made by the co-

accused/account holders for remuneration and the same being a

well-oiled network attracts the offence under Section 111 of the

BNS. The learned Public Prosecutor contended that the

organized derogatory posts at the instance of the Petitioner

amounted to 'organized crime'. The learned Public Prosecutor

submitted that the abusive social media posts were made prior to

the onset of the BNS and also thereafter and therefore Section

111 of the BNS is applicable to the facts of the case. 6 12. Learned Public Prosecutor had pointed out that there is no

requirement of two chargesheets against the accused in the

previous 10 years and submitted that filing of complaints would

suffice. He further contended that the evidentiary value of the

confession of co-accused is an aspect for appreciation by the trial

Court. 13. Issue: Having heard the respective counsel, the issue that

falls for consideration in this case is 'whether the Petitioner is

entitled for anticipatory bail at this stage'? 14. Reasoning: Before going into the applicability of Section

111 of the BNS, it would be appropriate to refer to Section 111 of

the BNS so that there is ease in explaining the scope and

applicability of the provision. Section 111 of the BNS reads as

under: Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section,-- (i)
 "organised crime syndicate" means a group of two or more
 persons who, acting either singly or jointly, as a syndicate
 or gang indulge in any continuing unlawful activity; (ii) "continuing unlawful activity" means an activity
 prohibited by law which is a cognizable offence punishable
 with imprisonment of three years or more, undertaken by
 any person, either singly or jointly, as a member of an
 organised crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate in
 respect of which more than one charge-sheets have been
 filed before a competent Court within the preceding period
 of ten years and that Court has taken cognizance of such
 offence, and includes economic offence;; 15. The reason for inclusion of the Petitioner in the crime is the

confession of a co-accused. It is too well known that the

confession of co-accused in custody cannot be said to be

substantive evidence to implicate the Petitioner. Further, the

prosecution could not specify any specific derogatory posts made

by the Petitioner which could be termed to be abusive from the

view point of a matured citizen. 16. The second aspect of the issue is that explanation (ii) to Section 111 of the BNS defining "Continuing unlawful activity" 8 17. The Learned Public Prosecutor had filed a memo in

Crl.P.No.8059 of 2024 vide USR No.12840 of 2025 and as per

the memo, all the crimes registered against the Petitioner in

different Districts across the State in the year 2024 are under

investigation. In the absence of any chargesheet in the preceding

10 years, which is a requirement of Section 111 of the BNS, the

registration of crime under that Section prima facie appears to be

unwarranted. 18. The reliance by the learned Public Prosecutor on the

Division Bench judgment of High Court of Allahabad in the case

of Jitesh Jha v. State of U.P5 appears to be misplaced. In the

said judgement, the application seeking quash of the crime was

rejected after taking note of the fact that four chargesheets and

cognisance in two cases by the concerned Court are sufficient

compliance to invoke Section 111 of the BNS. The principal

argument in that case that the chargesheets registered prior to

the advent of the BNS cannot be taken into consideration for

invocation of Section 111 of the BNS was rejected. 5 2024 SCC Online All 8095 10 19. Result: In that view and in order to maintain consistency,

the Criminal Petition is disposed of directing the Station House

Officer concerned to follow the procedure as contemplated under

Section 35(3) of BNSS (Section 41-A of the erstwhile Cr.P.C .)

scrupulously, as per the guidelines enunciated in Arnesh Kumar

v. State of Bihar and another6. As a sequel, the miscellaneous

petitions if any shall stand dismissed. ___________________
 NYAPATHY VIJAY, J
Date:07.05.2025
KLP 6 (2014) 8 SCC 273