SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: What is the partying life like?
DATE: 2024-06-12
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/1ddy53u/what_is_the_partying_life_like/

--- POST TEXT ---

What is the partying life like?

When I was in college, this was not even an option. I was in a very conservative society and we did not have dance floors or even pubs or any common places where men and women could drink alcohol together. Though there were a few bars, they were dingy, shady and sometimes scary. People from all economic classes would be present there and by people I mean men. Businessmen and politicians would be around to discuss their next venture or scam. Salaried class people working in govt jobs or private jobs would be around, drinking to cope with the daily stress of work and family. More so with daily wage workers, sometimes drinking all their money earned for the day. Some are unemployed and steal money from their wives or parents or whoever at home. Things like selling/mortgaging the gold of the women in their family and using that money to drink - these are things that actually happen in life and not just in movies. There'd be gundas/rowdies too. Sometimes cops. And of course, college students. 
 
Fights were common. Most of the time things would be just verbal or just some pushes and pulls. There were bouncers placed inside. Anyone who was big and muscular could become one. No real skills required. Just be big and intimidating. Fat is also fine. When a fight starts to happen, intervene, pull people apart and being big the people would also get scared and tend to stop the fight. At times, the pushes and pulls would get a bit more intense and someone's shirt or pocket would get torn and depending on the person or group, that'd escalate into a proper fight. It was nothing like the fight scenes in movies where one guy is hitting others one by one and they all fly away, sometimes in slow motion. Random people blowing punches to whoever they see or come across and sometimes accidentally hitting people from their own group. A guy would be trying to hit one person, but would be getting hit by another and someone else would be hitting him etc. No coordination or anything. Totally random. Tables and chairs would get pushed away. 
 
Plates were never used to smash someone on the head. Bottles were used though, but that was mostly extreme. People would throw the bottles hard on the floor and it'd make a lot of noise and stop everyone, at least momentarily. There'd be shards everywhere and so people wouldn't move as much. They still have some sense. But then someone else will throw the bottle in the same way. Eventually it becomes screaming and throwing the bottle down on the floor to ascertain supremacy. This goes on till all bottles on the nearby tables are broken. I guess whoever broke the last one is the winner. 
 
You witness all this because, you couldn't get out in time and now there's way too many broken glass bottles on the ~~dance~~ floor and it is too risky to walk and get out. You're also crouched in the seat or in the corner, making your body as small as possible to reduce the chances of a shard hitting you. Sometimes you use the next person as a shield. Eventually, the bouncers or housekeeping staff come and clean things and then things go back to normal, like nothing every happened. The ones who fight are of course thrown out of the bar. Don't know how the damages are settled, but it's not from inside the bar. Anyway, the fight has ruined your high by then and the only thing you talk with your group is to how to get out of there quickly before the next fight happens. 
 
Though I moved to a tier 1 city later, I never explored the pubs and dance floors. I outgrew loud and crowded places and avoided them. Socializing was always within the already formed friend groups and for that we'd hang out together at someone's place or at a restaurant or restobar. At least half the people would be teetottallers. If we wanted to get drinks, we'd buy the bottles from a shop and drink at someone's place or drink whatever is available at the restobar. There were brewery visits to try something new too. 
 
The other day, we had a small get together at a friend's place for dinner. On the way back, maps routed us through koramangala along one of the 'happening' places. Could hear bass thumps on the road and there was a lot of people waiting outside. Mostly college kids or young adults, all dressed and dolled up looking pretty hot. Most seem excited to get in, some look frustrated with the wait. Generally happy faces, people talking non stop with everyone around. Don't know if they are all one large group or people interacting with strangers. There'd also be some people who gone in earlier and come out looking very very drunk and tired. Walking all weird and wobbly, some struggling to even stand on two feet and having to be supported by others. Some look happy, some exhausted and have the the never-doing-this-again face. Don't know if they all get home safely, or at all. 
 
Looked up the place on maps and social media and it looks great. The place looks quite fancy inside. Great ambience. Lots of lights and people dancing. Colourful dresses, flexible bodies, great moves and more importantly, happy faces. Whatever, they were doing or experiencing, it was making them happy and it showed on their faces. Another thing I noticed that everyone was young. Most looked like they were in the late teens or early twenties. Maybe a handful of them looked like mid twenties. Is this something people find as fun at a particular age and then outgrow it? 
 
I never understood the appeal and never got to experience it either. Looking at all the happy faces and being a curious person in general, I want to try and experience it, but then I also feel I'm way too old for it and will feel out of place. But I want to know what it is like. Do you do this or have you done this? What makes you do it or keep doing it? How does it make you feel? What made you stop? What's your experience been?