BEFORE

 THE HON‟BLE MR. JUSTICE IA ANSARI

For the petitioner :: Mr. N. Dutta, Senior Advocate

 Mr. S. Shyam, Mr. D. Padu, Advocates

For the respondent :: Mr. D.K. Mishra, Senior Advocate

 Mr. M. Nath, Mr. S. Dey, Advocates

Dates of hearing :: 22.11.10, 16.08.11, 17.08.11, 18.08.11, 19.08.11,
 20.08.11, 05.09.11, 06.09.11, 29.09.11, 30.09.11, 05.01.12,
 07.02.12, 08.02.12, 27.02.12, 29.02.12 & 16.03.2012

Date of judgment :: 01.06.2012

 JUDGMENT & ORDER

 The case of the election petitioner may, in brief, be set out as

under: The result of the election was declared, on 22.10.2009, wherein the

respondent was declared as the elected candidate having 5113 votes

polled in his favour as against the 5082 votes polled in favour of the

election petitioner, the difference, in votes, obtained by the petitioner

and the respondent, being 31 (thirty one) votes only. In terms of the

votes, counted from the Electronic Voting Machines (in short, „EVMs‟), it is

the election petitioner, who would have won the election, but because

of the fact that as many as 45 postal ballots, which were, otherwise,

spurious and forged, had been counted, though there was specific

order passed earlier by the Returning Officer not to count these postal

ballots inasmuch as they had been received by the authorities

concerned through illegal and unauthorised channels. The respondent,

thus, came out as the returned candidate. The difference in the votes

was, according to the election petitioner, due to improper reception of

the postal ballots and illegal counting of the same. This apart, the

respondent obtained active help and support of Gazetted Officers of

the State Government, including the Returning Officer, in getting the said

forged postal ballots counted in his favour. Thus, the respondent

indulged in corrupt practice for the purpose of winning the election. (ii) As per the notification, issued under the authority of the

Election Commission of India, the program for holding the General

Elections to the 60 (sixty) assembly constituencies, in the State of

Arunachal Pradesh, was as follows:- (iii) The records reveal that in the said election, as many as 429

(four hundred and twenty nine) Postal ballots were issued by the

Returning Officer of No. 30 Aalo West Assembly (ST) Constituency. These

Postal ballots were meant for those voters of the constituency, who were

government servants and had been assigned election duties.

Accordingly, as per the notified program, the voters concerned were

allowed to receive the Postal ballots personally and cast their votes at

the Postal Ballot Facilitation Centre from 6-10-2009 till 11.10.2009. Records

also reveal that till the end of working hour on 11.10.2009, as many as 339

postal ballots were issued to the applicants by the In-Charge, Postal

Ballot Cell, as well as the Presiding Officer, Postal Ballot. The remaining 90

postal ballots (later on, clarified as 89 Postal ballots) of No. 30, Aalo West

Assembly (ST) Constituency, were booked by registered post, on

12.10.2009, at the Along Mukhya Dak Ghar (Aalo Post Office) by Sri

Gomo Sora, Presiding Officer, Postal Ballot. The official records,

maintained by the Returning Officer as well as the Postal Department,

confirm the fact that as many as 69 postal ballots , out of the 89 Postal

ballots mentioned hereinbefore, went missing from Along Post Office

after those had been booked by registered post, at Aalo Mukhya Dak

Ghar (MDG), on 12.10.2009. Postal records further establish the fact that

those 69 Postal ballots were never delivered by the Postal Department 4 to the respective applicants at any point of time and those remained, in

terms of the relevant postal records, traceless till today (though the said

69 postal ballots reached the Returning Officer, as would be described

below, through unauthorised channel). The fact, that the postal ballots

remained traceless, has been communicated to the Election Petitioner

by the Deputy Superintendent of Postal Services, Arunachal Pradesh, by

his letter, dated 20.11.2009, in response to an application made by the

election petitioner under the Right to Information Act, 2005 , seeking

information in this regard. (iv) On having learnt about the missing postal ballots only on

17.10.2009, the election petitioner and her agents had made several

representations before various authorities drawing their attention to the

said incident with a further request to, immediately, conduct an

investigation and trace out the missing postal ballots. The said

representations and/or complaints include the complaint, dated

17.10.2009 (Exhibit- PX-21), two First Information Reports, both dated

20.10.2009 (Exhibits PX- 22 and PX- 23 respectively), lodged by Shri Kirdo

Ete ( PW-21), i.e., the Election Agent of the petitioner, as well as the

complaints made by Shri Jumrik Ete (PW- 24), agent of the petitioner, on

19.10.2009 (Exhibit- PX- 28), before the Officer-in-Charge, Itanagar Police

Station, with copies marked to the Chief Electoral Officer, Arunachal

Pradesh, and the District Election Officer, West Siang District, Aalo. Even

Shri D.K.Deka (PW- 47), Post Master, Along Post Office, had written letters,

dated 17.10.2009 (Exhibit- PX- 47) and 21.10.2009 (Exhibit- PX- 50),

informing the Returning Officer about the said missing postal ballots . (v) On the basis of the complaints made by, and on behalf of,

the petitioner, a Departmental Investigation was conducted by the 5 Postal Department, which disclosed that 69 Postal ballots had, in fact,

gone missing from Along Post Office. The investigation, so conducted,

revealed that, on 20-10-2009, at about 7.00 am, one unknown person

had handed over a bundle of 65 Postal ballots to Smti. Sukuni Sharma, a

Gramin Dak Mail Service Carrier (GDSMC), outside Along Post Office,

under threat with an instruction to hand over those Postal ballots to the

Assistant Returning Officer (ARO) of the Constituency. Smti. Sukuni

Sharma had, accordingly, received all those 65 Postal ballots from the

unknown person, outside the Post Office, and, thereafter, handed over

those 65 postal ballots to the ARO, Shri Kangki Darang, in the evening of

20.10.2009, who, in turn, received the same and, thereafter, handed over

the said 65 Postal ballots to the Returning Officer on the same day. Later

on, it transpired that the unknown person was Sri Darka Kamsi, an INC

worker and counting agent of the Respondent. Sri Jayanta

Bhattacharya, Inspector of Post Office, who had conducted the inquiry,

also recorded the statement of Sukuni Sharma and other witnesses in his

own hand writing, which were part of the record pertaining to the inquiry

report, dated 21-10-2009 (PX-44). The statement of Sukuni Sharma had

also been submitted before the Returning Officer on 21-10-2009. (vi) The records confirm the fact that those 65 Postal ballots,

received by Smti Sukuni Sharma from the said INC worker outside the

Post Office, were all part of the 69 Postal ballots that had gone missing

from Along MDG after being booked by registered post on 12.10.2009. It

has also surfaced from investigation that all of those 65 Postal ballots

were fraudulently cast in favour of the Respondent (INC). (vii) On 20.10.2009, as many as 13 applicants of Postal ballots

submitted 13 Affidavits [PX- 51 (1) to (13)] before the Returning Officer 6 testifying to the effect that the Postal ballots , issued in their names, by

post, had not been received by them. On 21.10.2009, the election agent

of the petitioner had made a formal complaint before the Returning

Officer (Exhibit- PX- 27) requesting him to cancel all those 65 Postal

ballots , which had illegally received by Smti. Sukuni Sharma from

unauthorised channel. (viii) Upon going through the said complaint and, on

examination of the materials available before the Returning Officer, the

Returning Officer had, initially, taken a decision to cancel all those 65

Postal ballots recovered/received through Smti. Sukuni Sharma from

unauthorized source holding them to be tempered and illegal. However,

having made such a declaration in presence of both the contesting

candidates and their supporters, the Returning Officer, later on, shifted

his stand and issued an order, dated 22.10.2009 ( Exhibit- PX- 52),

cancelling only 48 Postal ballots , out of those 65 ( sixty-five) Postal ballots

, which were received through Sukuni Sharma. (ix) Thus, by the order, dated 22.10.2009, the Returning Officer

received 17 Postal ballots , from the bundle of 65, even after identifying

all those Postal ballots as spurious Postal ballots . Having, thus, rejected

the 48 Postal ballots by order, dated 22-10-2009, with a further direction

to keep those in a sealed packet, at the time of counting, the Returning

Officer, eventually, counted, surprisingly enough, another 23 (twenty

three) cancelled postal ballots from the said bunch of 48 postal ballots

already cancelled by him by order, dated 22.10.2009. (x) Thus, in the manner aforementioned, the Returning Officer,

in fact, counted, in favour of the respondent, as many as 40 (17 + 23)

tampered Postal ballots even after identifying those Postal ballots as 7 spurious. In doing so, the sole purpose of the Returning Officer, who had

been influenced by the respondent and his election agent, who were

personally present at the counting venue at the time of counting of the

votes, was to assist the respondent to win the election by hook or by

crook. Thus, under the influence of the respondent, the Returning Officer

had improperly received all the said 40 (forty) Postal ballots knowing

them to be spurious and, thereafter, illegally counted those Postal ballots

in favour of the respondent (i.e., the returned candidate). (xi) That besides the said 40 Postal ballots , the Returning Officer

had also illegally and improperly received and counted, in favour of the

Returned Candidate, one Postal Ballot issued in the name of Shri Jai

Prakash Tiwari (counterfoil No.00053) despite the fact that his name had

been deleted from the Electoral Roll of the said assembly constituency.

The Returning Officer had also improperly received and counted, in

favour of the returned candidate, 2 (two) Postal ballots under

Counterfoil Nos. 000234 and 000316, both issued in the name of one Shri

Karto Ete, whose name was included twice, in the Electoral Roll, in Part-

13, Serial No. 430 and, again, in Part-14, Serial No. 320. The Returning

Officer had further improperly received and counted, in favour of the

returned candidate, one postal ballot bearing Counterfoil No. 000407,

issued in the name of Miss Jompi Padu, a school student, against Form-12

application of Shri Nyojum Ete. It is worth mentioning that as per the list,

submitted by the Postal Department, the Postal Ballot, issued to Shri

Nyojum Ete, also forms part of the 69 ( sixty-nine) Postal ballots , which

went missing after those had been booked, at Aalo Post Office, on

12.10.2009. Thus, including the 40 spurious Postal ballots belonging to the

bundle of 65 as mentioned hereinbefore, the Returning officer had

improperly received and counted, in total, in favour of the returned 8 candidate, as many as 44 void votes, which materially altered the result

of the election. (xii) It is also the specifically pleaded case of the Election

Petitioner that as many as 69 ( sixty-nine) Postal ballots were stolen by

the supporters of the respondent under his instruction and with the help

of Postal Officials, namely, Shri D.K.Deka, Shri Jatin Dihingia and also

Postal Ballot Presiding Officer, namely, Shri Gomo Sora. All those stolen

Postal ballots were forged and tampered with by the respondent and his

election agent with the help of their supporters and, thereafter, fake

vote was cast in each of those postal ballots in favour of the returned

candidate. Thereafter, those stolen and tampered Postal ballots,

numbering 65 in total, were bundled up and secretly handed over to

Smti. Sukuni Sharma, under intimidation, outside the post office by Darka

Kamsi, a supporter of the returned candidate, with the instruction to

hand over the entire bundle to the Assistant Returning Officer, Shri Kangki

Darang. The ARO had actually received the bundle of 65 Postal ballots

from Sukuni Sharma and delivered those to the Returning Officer with full

knowledge and understanding that those postal ballots were spurious.

Thereafter, acting under pressure and influence of the respondent and

his election agent, Shri Deba Loya, the Returning Officer, Amjad Tak, had

received and counted 40 of those tempered Postal ballots in favour of

the returned candidate despite already having arrived at a categorical

conclusion that those were all spurious ballots containing void votes. The

Returning Officer had accepted the 17 tampered Postal ballots on

being influenced by the respondent. It is also the pleaded case of the

petitioner that, on 22-10-2009, the respondent was present in the

counting hall and, when the respondent was seen to have been losing

the election on the EVM count, the respondent further influenced the 9 Returning Officer to count as many as 23 forged Postal ballots in his

favour from the batch of the 48 rejected Postal ballots and the

Returning Officer did so, without offering any explanation therefor, but

with the obvious motive to brighten the respondent‟s wining prospect. (xiii) The election petitioner has, therefore, sought for a direction,

under Section 100 (1) (d) (iii) of the Representation of the People Act,

1951, (in short, „the ROP Act‟), declaring the election of the Returned

Candidate to be void on account of improper reception of as many as

44 void Postal ballots . The Election Petitioner has also sought for a further

direction, under Section 101 of the ROP Act, declaring her as the elected

candidate on the ground that she had, in fact, received a majority of

the valid votes at the election to the said constituency. (xiv) The election petitioner has further sought for a declaration

that the election of the respondent to the 30 Aalo West (ST) Assembly

Constituency is illegal, null and void on the ground of commission of

corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123 (7) of the ROP Act,

1951. 2. The respondent has resisted the election petition by filing his

written statement, wherein the respondent has not specifically denied

the averments, which have been made by the election petitioner as

regards the fact that 65 numbers of postal ballots , booked at Along Post

Office, had gone missing. The respondent has contended that the

election petition is absolutely vague, non-specific and does not disclose

material facts and material particulars and, thus, it does not conform to

the requirement of Section 83 of the ROP Act, 1951. That the election

petition does not disclose any „cause of action‟ and the election petition

suffers from non-joinder of necessary parties. The respondent further 10 contends that the statements, made in the election petition, are not

verified in terms of the legal requirement apart from the fact that the

allegations made therein are vague and bereft of any necessary

particulars. 3. It is, at this stage, worth pointing out that the respondent had

challenged the maintainability of the election petition on several

grounds, namely, that the true copy of the election petition had not

been attested by the election petitioner, the election petition is bereft of

material facts and material particulars and/or that the election petition

does not disclose any cause of action, etc. By order, dated 19.08.2010,

passed, in M.C.(EP) No.04(AP)/2010, the election petition was held by this

Court (Hon‟ble P.K. Musahary,J.) as maintainable and this decision has

been upheld by the Supreme Court by order, dated 20.04.2011, passed

in SLP (Civil) No.26152/2010. 4. The respondent had reserved the right to file additional or

supplementary written statement, within appropriate time, as may be

needed by him subject to grant of proper leave. However, neither any

further written statement has been filed by the respondent nor has any

reason for not filing such further written statement been assigned by the

respondent. The pleadings, contained in the written statement, as filed

by the respondent, therefore, have remained what they were. 5. Though the respondent denied that there was any improper

reception of postal ballots in favour of the returned candidate, or that

the respondent, by himself or through his election agent, or any other

person, acting with his consent, is guilty of committing any corrupt

practice within the ambit of Section 123(7) of the ROP Act, 1951, as 11 alleged by the election petitioner, the respondent has, as already

indicated above, neither disputed nor denied the fact that 65 numbers

of postal ballots went missing. The respondent has not he denied that

the Returning Officer had specifically announced, in presence of both

the parties, that 65 numbers of postal ballots , which had been received

by Sukuni Sharma, would not be counted; but, later on, 17 postal ballots ,

out of the said bundle of 65, were counted and, thereafter, 23 more

postal ballots were allowed to be counted without assigning any reason

therefor and, thus, altogether 40 (23+17) postal ballots , out of the said

earlier rejected 65 postal ballots , were counted and, on being so

counted, these postal ballots were found to have been received by the

returned candidate. In fact, without denying, in specific terms, the role of

Sukuni Sharma as recipient of a bundle of 65 postal ballots , the

respondent has alleged to the effect that Sukuni Sharma is involved with

the election petitioner in falsely implicating the respondent. 6. Thus, the averments, made by the election petitioner to the effect

that as many as 40 tampered/forged/spurious postal ballots were

counted in favour of the respondent, remained without being

specifically or pointedly denied. In fact, at para 14 of his written

statement, the respondent has taken the plea that "it is impossible for

the answering respondent to either affirm or deny the statements

specifically in exercise of his right of defence in the instant proceeding".

This apart, the respondent has not pleaded his version of the incident.

Despite the fact that the incident of postal ballots having gone missing,

the act of receiving a bundle of 65 postal ballots out of the 69 missing

postal ballots , by the postal employee, namely, Sukuni Sharma, had

been, in the light of the election petition, within the knowledge of the

respondent well before the counting process had commenced, but the 12 correctness of the averments, made, in this regard, by the election

petitioner, having not been denied, the same have to be treated as

admitted facts. 7. Bearing in mind what is indicated above, let me, now, come to
the issues. Based on the pleadings, the following issues were framed: c. Whether there was delivery of as many as 65 forged,
 spurious, fake and tampered postal ballots by some
 unknown persons to Smti. Sukuni Sharma, a postal employee
 of Along Mukhya Dak Ghar, outside the post office beyond
 the office hours , who in turn delivered the same to Assistant
 Returning Officer on 20.10.2009? d. Whether any of those forged postal ballots have been
 received and counted by the Returning Officer in favor of
 the returned candidate materially affecting the result of the
 election in question? e. Whether the respondent is guilty of commission of corrupt
 practice as defined under Section 123(7) of the R.P. Act,
 1951? f. Whether the election petitioner has, in fact, received the
 majority of the valid votes polled in the election and hence,
 entitled to a declaration under Section 100(d) of the R.P.Act,
 1951? g. Whether the election petitioner is entitled to a declaration
 under Section 101 of the R.P.Act, 1951, that she has been
 duly elected to 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency in the
 election held on 13.10.2009? h. To what other relief(s), the election petitioner is entitled to
 under the law?" 8. I have heard Mr. N Dutta, learned Senior counsel, and Mr. S.

Shyam, learned counsel, for the election petitioner. I have also heard Mr.

DK Mishra, learned Senior counsel, and Mr. M. Nath, learned counsel, for

the respondent. 9. In support of her case, the election petitioner has adduced

evidence, both oral as well as documentary, by examining 53 witnesses

including herself. The respondent, too, has adduced oral evidence by

examining witnesses including himself and his witnesses. 10. Let me, now, consider the issues and take decisions thereon. Issue No. a :- Whether the election petition discloses any 'cause of

action'? 11. Before entering into the question whether the election petition

discloses any „cause of action‟, it may be pointed out that „cause of

action‟ implies a right to sue. „Cause of action‟ is not defined in any

statute. It has, however, been judicially interpreted, inter alia, to mean

every fact, which would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove, if

traversed, in order to support his right to the judgment of the Court. Thus,

the material facts, which are imperative for the suitor to allege and

prove, constitute the „cause of action‟. Negatively put, it would mean

that everything, which, if not proved, gives the defendant an immediate

right to judgment, would form part of „cause of action‟, [ Kusum Ingots

and Alloys Ltd. Vs. Union of India , reported in (2004) 6 SCC 254]. 12. What is, now, of immense importance to note is that the question

as to whether the pleadings, in the Election Petition, are or are not true

and correct, would be a question of fact, but these pleadings, for the 14 purpose of determining the „cause of action‟, have to be assumed to be

true and correct and, on this assumption and basis, the Court is required

to determine whether the facts, so pleaded, if remain without being

traversed, would entitle the election petitioner to the reliefs, which she

has sought for and, if the pleadings, in question, entitle her to the reliefs,

which she seeks, then, the Court is bound to hold that the election

petition discloses „cause of action‟. 13. What may, now, be noted is that the election petitioner has

pleaded, in Paragraphs 10 (I) to Paragraphs 10 (XX) of the Election

petition, the facts and particulars regarding the void postal ballots ,

which were improperly received and counted in favour of the

respondent. In paragraph 10 (I) to paragraph10 (VI) of the election

petition, the election petitioner has given the detailed facts and

particulars of the Postal ballots of 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency,

which had been booked, by registered post, on 12.10.2009, but,

ultimately, went missing from the post office. At paragraph10 (XII), the

election petitioner has given, in tabular form, the particulars including

the registered letter numbers, names of the applicants, who applied for

postal ballots in respect of 30 Aalo West (ST) Assembly Constituency,

which had been booked, on 12.10.2009, for despatch to the respective

applicants. In Table AA of the election petition, the particulars of those

postal ballots , which were delivered to the addressees, numbering 22,

have been furnished and in Table AB, particulars of those 69 postal

ballots (actually 68, since the name of Tonya Padu has been erroneously

mentioned twice), which were allegedly never delivered to the

applicants, have been furnished. From Paragraph10 (XIII) to 10 ( XXII) of

the election petition, it has been specifically pleaded as to the manner 15 in which the respondent succeeded, with the help and complicity of the

postal ballot presiding officer, Gomo Sora, and the other postal officials,

in getting the said illegal and void postal ballots counted in his favour. In

paragraphs 10 (XIV) of the Election petition, it has been specifically

pleaded that the 65 missing postal ballots were forged and tempered

by the respondent, whereby fake votes were cast by his agents in favour

of the respondent. In paragraph 10 ( XV) and 10 (XVI), the election

petitioner has categorically pleaded that as many as 40 postal ballots ,

out of the bundle of 65 forged postal ballots , were counted in favour of

the respondent. In paragraph 10 ( XVII) to (XIX), the election petitioner

has pleaded the facts and particulars in support of the allegation that as

many as 4 ( four) postal ballots , issued in the names of Jaipraksh Tiwari,

Karto Ete, Jompi Padu and Penya Ete, were improperly received and

counted in favour of the respondent. In paragraph 10 (XII) of the

election petition, the petitioner has categorically pleaded as to how the

improper reception of postal ballots , numbering 44 (forty four), has

materially affected the result of the election. 14. In paragraph 11 of the election petition and 40 sub-paragraphs,

numbered as (I) to (XL), the election petitioner has pleaded full material

facts and particulars in support of her allegation of corrupt practice

committed by the respondent himself and his election agent. In

paragraph 11 (II), the election petitioner has specifically pleaded that

reception of the Postal Officials were unduly influenced by the

respondent himself and his election agent, Deba Loya. In the various

sub-paragraphs of paragraphs 11 (III) to 11 (XXI), the election petitioner

has pleaded the material facts and particulars showing the manner in

which the corrupt practice, alleged against the respondent, had been 16 planned and perpetrated by him as well as the various attempts made

by the election petitioner and her agents to prevent such corrupt

practice. In paragraph 11 (XXII) to (XXVI), the election petitioner has

specifically pleaded as to the time, mode and manner in which the

respondent himself and his Election Agent had influenced the Returning

Officer and obtained his assistance in furthering the respondent‟s poll

prospects thereby committing corrupt practice within the meaning of

Section 123 (7) of the ROP Act, 1951. For the sake of ready reference, the

pleadings, contained in paragraph 11 (XXII) to (XXVI), are reproduced

below:- 10-2009 passed by the Returning Officer, it would be apparent on the
 face of the record that he has acted in most biased and unfair
 manner in picking and choosing only 48 Postal ballots from the
 bunch of 65 forged Postal ballots for the purpose of rejection. Save
 and except the influence exerted by the Respondent, there was
 absolutely no reason or basis for the Returning Officer to accept any
 of those 65 forged Postal ballots , let alone the 17 accepted by him
 by the order dated 22-10-2009. (XXV) That the extremely bias and partisan attitude of the
 Returning Officer would further appear from the fact that even after
 having categorically rejected those 48 Postal ballots by the order
 dated 22-10-2009 , as aforesaid, the Returning Officer had eventually
 counted as many as 23 Postal ballots from the lot of those 48
 rejected Postal ballots which were admittedly tampered and hence
 kept in a separate bunch. (XXVI) That it is stated and submitted that in the manner
 indicated here-in-before, notwithstanding the order dated 22-10-2009
 as well as all the official correspondences regarding the 69 missing
 Postal ballots , ultimately the Returning Officer had actually accepted
 as many as 40 Postal ballots from the bunch of 65 tampered and
 forged Postal ballots which were all void votes. Only 25 Postal ballots
 from the bunch of 65 forged Postal ballots had ultimately been
 rejected by the Returning Officer on having found those as invalid." (Emphasis is added). 15. Bearing in mind what has been held above, it may be further

pointed out, as already indicated above, that this election petition

challenges the election of the respondent on two grounds, namely, (i)

„improper acceptance‟ of postal ballots and (ii) corrupt practice

allegedly indulged in by the respondent. 16. With regard to the above, the pleaded case of the election

petitioner is that as many as 69 numbers of postal ballots, which were

addressed to the voters of 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency, were

booked, at Along Post Office, by registered post. Out of the postal 18 ballots so booked by registered post at the said post office, as many as

69 postal ballots went missing. Out of the said 69 missing postal ballots ,

65 postal ballots were handed over to Sukuni Sharma, an employee of

the said post office, by an unauthorized person, whose identity, later on,

came to light as Darka Kamsi, a counting agent of the election

petitioner. As regards reception of postal ballots by Sukuni Sharma, a

First Information Report was lodged with the police and a case was

registered in this regard. 17. It is also the pleaded case of the election petitioner that on the

basis of the investigations, which were carried on by the Police as well as

the Postal Department into the causes of missing postal ballots and, on

the representation made by the election petitioner that the postal

ballots , received through unauthorized channel by Sukuni Sharma,

ought not to be counted, the Returning Officer, initially, kept, out of the

said 65 postal ballots, 48 postal ballots excluded from counting, but

decided to nevertheless count, without assigning any specific reason, 17

ballots from the said bundle of 65 postal ballots . 18. The further pleaded case of the election petitioner is that when

the respondent was found losing the election, as many as 23 postal

ballots , out of the said 48 postal ballots , which had been, initially, kept

excluded from the counting by the Returning Officer, according to the

election petitioner, were counted in favour of the respondent by the

order of the Returning Officer. Thus, altogether, 40 postal ballots (i.e.,

17+23) were counted at the time of counting on 22.10.2009. If these

postal ballots, which were counted in favour of the respondent, had 19 been kept excluded from counting, the election petitioner would have

won the election. 19. It is the specifically pleaded case of the election petitioner that for

the reception of 40 forged, tampered and fabricated postal ballots , no

explanation has been offered by the Returning Officer. This apart, one

postal ballot was issued in favour of Jay Prakash Tiwari, whose name had

already been removed from electoral rolls and the postal ballot, so

issued in favour of Jay Prakash Tiwari, could not have been and ought

not to have been counted at the counting. Similarly, two postal ballots

were issued to one elector, namely, Kirdo Ete. In the face of these facts,

none of the said two postal ballots, in terms of Section 62 of the ROP Act,

1951, could have been counted. Furthermore, one postal ballot was,

admittedly, issued in favour of Jompi Padu, who is, concededly, a

student and, being a minor, no postal ballot could have been issued to

her. This postal ballot was issued against an application, which had been

made, in Form-12, by one Nyojum Ete and the postal ballot, issued in the

name of Nyojum Ete is shown missing from the post office. This postal

ballot too was, for no explained reason, counted in favour of the

respondent. 20. What may, now, be pointed out is that the facts, so pleaded in the

election petition, may or may not be true. However, for the purpose of

determining as to whether the election petition discloses any „cause of

action‟ or not, the facts, pleaded in the election petition, have to be

assumed as true and correct and if one proceeds on this assumption, it

becomes clear that the election petition contains sufficient pleadings as

regards acceptance of, or improper reception of, postal ballots , which 20 is a ground, under Section 100 (1)(iii) of the ROP Act, 1951, to declare the

election of the returned candidate illegal. The facts, so pleaded, thus,

constitute a sufficiently clear „cause of action‟ for filing this election

petition. 21. Yet another ground on which the election of the respondent is

challenged is the ground of corrupt practice allegedly indulged in by

the respondent. In this regard, the election petitioner‟s specific

allegation is based on Section 123(7) of the ROP Act, 1951, which lays

down to the effect that at attempt of a candidate or his election agent,

even without the consent of the candidate, to obtain or to procure any

assistance from any person for furtherance of the prospects of the

candidate‟s election amounts to corrupt practice and, more so, when

the persons concerned are not only Government servants, but Gazetted

Officers, such as, the Returning Officer. 22. Corrupt practice, according to the election petitioner, stands

established inside the counting hall itself, when the respondent and his

agents insisted upon the Returning Officer to count the rejected postal

ballots and, on such insistence, 23 postal ballots , as mentioned above,

were counted as per the order of the Returning Officer and the said 23

postal ballots , when counted, were found to have been cast in favour

of the respondent. For counting the said 23 postal ballots, no explanation

could be offered by the Returning Officer. Thus, the election petition also

makes out a „cause of action‟ for challenging the election on the

ground of „corrupt practice‟. 23. In the present case, if the pleadings, in the written statement, are

assumed to be true and correct, it becomes abundantly clear that the 21 pleadings, contained therein, disclose „cause of action‟. In fact, nothing

material or significant could be submitted, on behalf of the respondent,

to show that the pleadings, if remain unchallenged and assumed to be

true, would not disclose „cause of action‟ and entitle the election

petitioner to the reliefs, which she has sought for. 24. Situated thus, this Court has no hesitation in holding that the

Election Petition does disclose „cause of action‟. The issue No.a is,

therefore, answered in the affirmative and in favour of the election

petitioner. 25. Let me, now, come to issue Nos. b, c and d, because all these

three issues are inextricably inter-linked with each other and the decision,

on any of these issues, would have a material bearing on the outcome

of the remaining issues. 26. The issue Nos. b, c and d read as under: 27. These issues pertain to the improper acceptance of postal ballots

and since the difference of votes between the petitioner and the

respondent is thin, the improper acceptance of postal ballots, alleged to

be tampered, has been projected as one of the grounds for declaring

the election void. 28. Section 100 of the ROP Act, 1951, provides as follows: 29. The grounds, mentioned in Section 100 (d)(iii) , are relevant in the

present context. 30. In her evidence, the petitioner deposed that the respondent, Shri

Gadam Ete, had contested the election as a candidate from Indian

National Congress ( in short, the INC‟), and was the only contesting

candidate against the election petitioner from No. 30 Aalo West 23 Assembly (ST) Constituency. The result of the election was declared, on

22.10.2009, wherein the respondent was declared as the elected

candidate having 5113 votes polled in his favour as against the 5082

votes polled in favour of the election petitioner, the difference, in votes,

obtained by the petitioner and the respondent, being 31 (thirty one)

votes only. In terms of the votes, counted from the Electronic Voting

Machines (in short, „EVMs‟), it is the election petitioner, who would have

won the election, but because of the fact that as many as 45 postal

ballots, which were, otherwise, spurious and forged, had been counted,

though there was specific order passed earlier by the Returning Officer

not to count these postal ballots inasmuch as they had been received

by the authorities concerned through illegal and unauthorised channels.

The respondent, thus, came out as the returned candidate. The

difference in the votes was, according to the election petitioner, due to

improper reception of the forged, tampered and spurious postal ballots

and illegal counting thereof. POSTING OF POSTAL BALLOTS AND RECEIPT BY THE POST OFFICE 31. While considering the above issues, it is imperative to point out that

Ext. PX 56 is a register, which would go to show that 89 registered letters,

each containing one postal ballot, pertaining to the voters of 30 Aalo

West Assembly Constituency, were booked, by registered post, on

12.10.2009, by Gomo Sora (PW43), Presiding Officer, Postal Ballot, who

has confirmed this fact in his deposition and whose evidence has gone

unchallenged. There is also no dispute that as many as 89 postal ballots

were received by Postal Assistant, Jatin Dihingia (PW46), from Gomo

Sora, on 12.10.2009, by putting his signature, which stands proved as Ext. 24 PX 56(1).This fact has been confirmed by Jatin Dihingia (PW46) too. Jatin

Dihingia (PW46) has deposed, in his evidence, as follows: 32. PW46 (Jatin Dihingia) has also deposed that he was earlier scared,

but he, ultimately, decided to speak the truth and with the decision, so

taken, he feels less frightened, but he is still scared. PW46 has reiterated,

in his cross-examination, that at his residence, in presence of Gomo Sora,

Mr. D.K. Deka (PW47) told him (PW46) that the political parties were

strong and he (PW46) should do what he has been asked to do. Though

PW46 has acceded that the facts, which he has deposed in the election

trial, had not been stated by him earlier neither at the time, when his

statement was recorded by police, nor in his departmental proceeding,

because he was scared. 33. What is important to note, in the evidence of PW46, is that he has

deposed that nobody has threatened him on the day, when he gave

evidence in the Court, but he clarified that he had been, during the last

two years, under tremendous mental pressure, because he had not

spoken the truth mainly because of the fact that their Post Master (i.e.,

D.K. Deka), did not correctly inform their Head Office about the postal

ballots . PW46 has further clarified that it was on 12.10.2009 that he was 25 put in fear, when D.K. Deka told him about the strength of the parties

involved. 34. Responding to the suggestion of the respondent that his

statement, given on both days, were false, PW46 has reacted by saying

that whatever he stated „yesterday‟ was true except that he could not

complete his statement „yesterday‟ and could not tell the whole truth. 35. Though it has been contended by Mr. Mishra that PW46 cannot be

relied upon, because of the fact that he had a somersault on the next

day, i.e., on 30.09.2011, the evidence of PW46, given on 30.09.2011, was

not a somersault, but the complete truth, which he has clarified in his

cross-examination. It was not even suggested to PW46 that he was giving

his statement under threat or at behest of, or being influenced by the

election petitioner, her election agent or supporters. 36. It is of utmost significance to note that it was not even suggested

to PW46 by the respondent that the evidence, given by him (PW46), was

under threat, coercion, persuasion or influence of the election petitioner.

There was, in fact, no damaging cross-examination of PW46 and nothing

has been elicited from his cross-examination to show that what he

deposed were false or untrue or that the evidence, given by him, were

under the influence of the election petitioner. 37. The suggestion, therefore, offered to PW46 by the respondent to

the effect that his evidence is false has remained as a mere suggestion

and cannot either weaken the case of the election petitioner nor

strengthen the case of the respondent. Far from this, the evidence of

PW46 supports the election petitioner‟s case that from the very

inception, manipulation of postal ballots was designed and 26 implemented with the help of the Government servants. The evidence of

PW46 inspires great confidence and this Court sees no reason to

disbelieve or discard his evidence as unworthy of trust. In fact, if I may

reiterate, nothing has been elicited from the cross-examination of PW46

by the respondent to show that this witness‟s evidence cannot be trusted

or relied upon. MISSING OF POSTAL BALLOTS AT THE RECEIVING POST OFFICE 38. PW2 (C.L. Lalfakzuala), who is Director of Postal Services,

Arunachal Pradesh, produced the record (PX33) showing delivery status

of the postal ballots, in question, as per official record maintained by the

Postal Department. The said document (PX33) bears the registered letter

numbers, names of the postal ballot applicants as well as the destination

Post Offices confirming the fact that as many as 69 postal ballots, out of

the said 89 postal ballots, had never been delivered to their respective

applicants and remained traceless. 39. On the basis of the complaints made by, and on behalf of, the

petitioner, a Departmental Investigation was conducted by the Postal

Department. PW3 (Jayanta Bhattacharjee), an Inspector of Post Offices,

has proved Ext. PX44 as his enquiry report, dated 21.10.2009. 40. PW2 has also proved Ext. PX 8 as well as the signature thereon

were given by the then Postal Deputy Superintendent, A.K. Shyam, who

has since retired from service. PW2 has also confirmed that Ext. PX8 was

issued to the election petitioner by A.K. Shyam, the then overall in-

charge of the Postal Department, in response to an application, made

under the Right to Information Act, 2005 , and the same was provided on

the basis of an enquiry conducted by the Postal Department. PW2 has

also produced Ext.PX38, in original, which is the enquiry report, dated 27 21.10.2009, submitted by Shri Jayanta Bhattacharjee, Inspector of Post

Office, Central Sub-Division, Pasighat. PW2 has further produced, in

original, the statement of Sukuni Sharma recorded by said Jayanta

Bhattacharjee. PW2 has also produced Ext. PX 43, which is the office

copy of Ext. PX8, which had been earlier furnished to the election

petitioner under the Right to Information Act, 2005 . PW2 has produced

from his custody the copy of the letter, dated 20.11.2009, in original,

issued by A.K. Shyam to the Returning Officer marked as Ext. PX 36

recording the communication of the Postal Department to the Returning

Officer regarding missing postal ballots. 41. This witness (PW2) has also confirmed that a proceeding has been

drawn against Sukuni Sharma in connection with the missing postal

ballots and that charge-sheet has been issued not only to D.K. Deka, but

also Jatin Dihingia (PW46). 42. Coupled with the above, the Returning Officer (PW30) and the

Assistant Returning Officer (PW49) have also confirmed the fact that 89

postal ballots were issued to the voters of 30 Aalo West Assembly

Constituency and had been booked, by registered post, at Along Post

Office on 12.10.2009. Ext. PX 58, produced by PW30, is the computerised

receipt of 168 registered letters containing postal ballots booked at

Along Post Office on 12.10.2009, which bears the booking record of

those 89 postal ballots . It may be noted that Ext. PX26(2) is the copy of

Ext.PX58, which was earlier provided to the election petitioner by the

Assistant Returning Officer in response to her application made under

the Right to Information Act, 2005 . 43. It is also worth noticing that Ext. PX5 is the letter, dated 03.11.2009,

issued by Itanagar Head Post Office under the signature of the Post 28 Master, Deputy Post Master and the Postal Assistant furnishing particulars

of 57 postal ballots of 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency, which were

never received by Itanagar Post Office. The respective Sub-Post Masters,

i.e., PWs 34 to 39, have also confirmed that they had never received the

postal ballots addressed to the respective post offices. 44. The evidence, as discussed above, leaves no room for doubt that

the postal ballots went missing at the receiving post office.

ROLE OF SUKUNI SARMA & RECEIPT OF POSTAL BALLOTS BY THE ASSISTANT

RETURNING OFFICER 45. Coming to the evidence of Sukuni Sharma (PW4), it may be noted

that in her evidence, she has confirmed the fact that 65 letters,

addressed to the Assistant Returning Officer, were received by her, on

20.10.2009, at about 7 am, from one person, whom she has identified as

Darka Kamsi. It may be noted, in this regard, that Darka Kamsi was also a

counting agent of the respondent at the place of counting. In her cross-

examination by the election petitioner, on being declared hostile, PW4

(Sukuni Sharma) has admitted that she stated before the enquiry officer

(PW3) that there were postal ballots inside the 65 envelopes, which had

been handed over to her. PW4 has also confirmed the fact that the

Assistant Returning Officer took, on 20.10.2009, the said 65 letters from

her. 46. PW4 has proved her statement and her signature recorded by the

Enquiry Officer (PW3). In fact, in her evidence, PW4 has, in no uncertain

words, deposed, "I knew Darka Kamsi for a long time before he handed

over 65 numbers of letters to me." This witness has further confirmed that

she had taken the 65 postal ballots. 47. Surprisingly enough, however, the respondent did not even

suggest to PW4 challenging the truthfulness or correctness of her

assertion that she had received the postal ballots from Darka Kamsi. It is

to be noted that it has not been the case of the respondent that 69

postal ballots of 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency did not go missing

after the same were booked, by registered post, on 12.10.2009, at Along

Post Office nor is it the case of the respondent that 65 postal ballots

were received illegally through Sukuni Sharma. 48. What is most surprising is the fact that there is no denial by the

respondent that the said 65 postal ballots, received through

unauthorised channel by Sukuni Sharma, form part of the 69 postal

ballots, which went missing from Along Post Office. This apart, the

Returning Officer (PW30) has confirmed the fact that 65 postal ballot

papers, which were in his custody on 20.10.2009, were illegally received

by Sukuni Sharma on 20.10.2009 and the said fact has also been

reflected in his (Returning Officer‟s) order, dated 22.10.2009, which is

marked as Ext. PX52. 49. It has, therefore, surfaced unscathed by clear, cogent, reliable

and trustworthy evidence on record that out of 89 postal ballots of 30

Aalo West Legislative Assembly Constituency, booked by registered post,

at Along Post Office, on 12.10.2009, as many as 69 Postal ballots went

missing and were never delivered to those, who had applied for the said

postal ballots . However, 65 postal ballots, out of the said 69, were

received back by the Returning Officer through unauthorised source of

Sukuni Sharma (PW4) in the manner as indicated above. 50. Thus, the petitioner has considerable force, when it is submitted, on

her behalf, that 69 postal ballots went out of the legitimate channel after 30 12.10.2009 and became spurious postal ballots and these postal ballots

could not have been, and ought not to have been, counted in view of

the mandate of law as contained in Rule 54 (11) read with Sub-Rule 8(c)

of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. 51. None of the said 65 spurious ballots could have been received or

counted by the Returning Officer. At the same time, it is also the

undisputed position of fact, emerging from the evidence on record, that

as many as 40 spurious postal ballots, belonging to the said bunch of 65

spurious ballots, received through unauthorised channel of Sukuni

Sharma, had, indeed, been counted by the Returning Officer in favour

of the respondent. 52. While considering the issue Nos. b, c and d, what cannot be

ignored and must not be ignored is the fact that the Returning Officer

has confirmed the fact that altogether 425 postal ballots of 30 Aalo West

Legislative Assembly Constituency had been received and counted in

the counting process. The Returning Officer has also confirmed, in his

evidence, on the basis of the contents of Ext. PX52, the fact that he had,

by order, dated 22.10.2009 (as reflected from Ext. PX52) had rejected 48

postal ballots from the bunch of 65 postal ballots received from

unauthorised channel of Sukuni Sharma. 53. It is, thus, an admitted position that as many as 17 postal ballots

from the said bunch of 65 spurious postal ballots, received by Sukuni

Sharma (Pw4), came to be counted by the Returning Officer despite

being aware of the fact that these spurious ballots had gone missing

and, having been received through unauthorised channel, ought not to

be counted. The Returning Officer (PW30) has miserably failed to explain

as to why he happened to count the 17 spurious postal ballots 31 belonging to the bunch of 65 postal ballots received through Sukuni

Sharma nor is there any explanation discernible, in this regard, from the

materials on record. 54. One can also not ignore the fact that the Returning Officer (PW30)

has, in fact, conceded, in his evidence, that he had received the letters,

namely, Ext. PX47, 48 and 50, issued by D.K. Deka as also the 13

affidavits, submitted by the Government employees, namely, Exts. PX51

(1) to 51(13). Under the weight of cross-examination by the election

petitioner, PW30 (Returning Officer) has confirmed the entries made in

Ext. PX53 and accepted the fact that in the final analysis, it is only 25

postal ballots , out of the said 65 spurious postal ballots , which come to

be, eventually, rejected by him. 55. In effect, thus, PW30 (Returning Officer) has confirmed that besides

17 postal ballots from the said bunch of 65 postal ballots (which were all

rejected by him at the initial stage), 23 postal ballots , out of the

remaining 48 rejected postal ballots , came to be, finally, counted by

him. Why he (Returning Officer) decided to count any of the Postal

ballots, out of the said 65 Postal ballots, the Returning Officer has no

answer, far less a convincing and reasoned answer, to offer.

IMPACT OF COUNTING OF POSTAL BALLOTS ON THE ELECTION RESULTS-

WHETHER MATERIALLY AFFECTED THE ELECTION RESULT 56. The Returning Officer‟s evidence, given in this regard, works as an

eye-opener inasmuch as he states, "65 (sixty-five) numbers of ballot

papers, which were received by Smti. Sukuni Sharma, ought to have

been excluded and not counted. I did not however, reject the said 65

postal ballots". He further stated that "the said 48 postal ballots, which I

had rejected, formed part of the said 65 postal ballots, which were 32 delivered to Smt. Sukuni Sharma. Thus, 17 more postal ballots ought to

have been rejected. However, 17 postal ballots were not rejected,

because out of the 65 postal ballots, received by Smt. Sukuni Sharma

only 48 ballot papers were directed by me to be kept separately and

not to be counted". 57. In the face of the above evidence of the Returning Officer himself,

there can be no escape from the conclusion that even the Returning

Officer concedes that he ought not to have counted, and yet counted,

as many as 40 postal ballots out of the said bundle of 65 postal ballots,

which had reached his hands through unauthorized channel of Smt.

Sukuni Sarma. In no way, therefore, the receipt of the 40 postal ballots

could be justified by the Returning Officer or by the respondent. 58. What is surprising to note, while considering the above evidence of

the Returning Officer (PW30), is that while cross-examining him (PW30),

the respondent did not question the veracity of the above evidence of

PW30. Thus, even the respondent has acceded to the fact that the

Returning Officer initially counted, for no assigned reason, 17 postal

ballots, which had come to him through the unauthorised source of

Sukuni Sharma (PW4). Why PW30 allowed the counting of these 17 postal

ballots, there is absolutely no answer. This silence is propounded by yet

another fact that out of the remaining 48 postal ballots, which had been

directed by PW30 himself by his order, dated 22.10.2009, to be kept in a

sealed cover and not to be counted, as many as 23 postal ballots were,

eventually, counted. Here again and, as usual, for counting the said 23

postal ballots, there is really no answer and no explanation. This apart, 17

applicants of the said postal ballots have confirmed, in their evidence,

that they had not received their postal ballots. These 17 witnesses are 33 PW5 to PW8, PW10, PW11, PW13 to PW15, PW19, PW20, PW22, PW23,

PW25, PW26, PW31 and PW 52. 59. What is also interesting to note is that the Returning Officer (PW30)

has admitted that it was possible to identify the 65 spurious postal ballots,

which had been received through Sukuni Sharma and could have kept

excluded from counting. There is no explanation given either by the

respondent or by the Returning Officer or from any officials connected

with the process of election, in the present case, as to why no attempt

was made to identify those 65 postal ballots, which had been received

by Sukuni Sarma, and to keep the same excluded from being counted. 60. It may, now, be noted that on an application, made by the

petitioner, an order was passed, on 11.03.2011, by this Court (Hon‟ble P.

K. Musahary, J) in the present election petition, allowing inspection of

records. A Special Leave Petition was moved against the said order, but

the said SLP was dismissed by the Supreme Court. During the course of

this inspection, as the evidence on record discloses, the petitioner‟s

representative examined Form No.13A of the said 40 spurious ballots,

which were counted, and, by correlating the counterfoil number of the

said 40 postal ballots, he could identify the said 40 postal ballot papers.

From the evidence of PW53, who had inspected and examined the

records, it has surfaced that all the 40 spurious Postal Ballots were cast in

favour of the respondent and these spurious 40 Postal Ballots were,

eventually, counted, on the orders of the Returning Officer, in favour of

the respondent. The particulars of the said 40 forged postal ballots have

been indicated in a tabular form in the examination-in-chief of PW53. 61. During the inspection, held on 17.03.2011, as indicated above, it

was further seen, as reflected from the evidence on record, that four 34 spurious postal ballots, issued in the name of Jaiprakash Tiwari, Karto Ete,

Jompi Padu and Penya Ete were also counted, on the orders of the

Returning Officer, in favour of the returned candidate, though

Jaiprakash Tiwari was a person, whose name stood, admittedly, deleted

from the voters list and whose vote could not have been counted; Karto

Ete is a person, whose name was included twice, i.e., in the electoral roll

in part 13 Serial No.430 and, again, in part 14 Serial No.320 and, hence,

none of these postal ballots could have been counted and, yet, his

postal ballot has been counted; similarly, Jompi Padu, a school student,

was issued postal ballot against an application, made in Form No.12, by

Nyojum Ete. Admittedly and amazingly enough, all these five postal

ballots were counted. The particulars of the postal ballots, issued in

favour of Jaiprakash Gupta, Jompi Padu, Karto Ete and Penya Ete, are

reproduced hereinbelow: 62. One can also not ignore the fact that respondent has neither

pleaded nor led any evidence to give his version as to what had

happened to the 89 postal ballots of 30 Aalo West Assembly

Constituency, which were booked, by registered post, on 12.10.2009, or 35 that 69 postal ballots, out of the 89 postal ballots, had gone missing from

the said post office. In fact, the respondent had taken a stand of

complete ignorance about the whole incident, but under the pressure of

cross-examination, the respondent conceded that he knew about the

missing postal ballots. This further fortifies the case of the election

petitioner that the respondent has been suppressing the truth from the

Court and he was well-aware of the fact that postal ballots, booked by

registered post, on 12.10.2009, at the said post office, had gone missing

and that out of those missing ballots, some were shown, by manipulation,

to have been cast in his favour and were, in fact, taken into account in

the counting of votes. 63. From what have been discussed and pointed out above, it stands

proved beyond all reasonable doubt that the Returning Officer had, in

fact, counted 44 void votes in favour of the respondent, which has

materially affected the result of the poll. These 44 votes are all void votes

and ought not to have been counted in favour of any candidate. If

these 44 votes were kept excluded from the poll process, as ought to

have been done by the Returning Officer (PW30), then, the petitioner

would have, obviously, received, unless shown otherwise, the majority of

valid votes and emerge, as contended by her, the winning candidate. 64. Because of what have been discussed and pointed out above,

issue Nos. b, c and d are answered in the affirmative and in favour of the

election petitioner. 65. Let me, now, deal with issue Nos. f, g and h. f. Whether the election petitioner has, in fact,
 received the majority of the valid votes polled in the
 election and hence, entitled to a declaration under
 Section 100(d) of the R.P.Act, 1951? g. Whether the election petitioner is entitled to a
 declaration under Section 101 of the R.P.Act, 1951,
 that she has been duly elected to 30 A alo West
 Assembly Constituency in the election held on
 13.10.2009? h. To what other relief(s), the election petitioner is
 entitled to under the law?" (Emphasis is added) 72. Section 94 of the ROP Ac t, 1951, provides that in a case

of voting by open ballot, no witness or other person shall be

required to state for whom he ha s voted , the object

underlined being to ensure a voter that he would not be

compelled, directl y or indirectly , to disclose as to whom he

has voted for so that he may vote withou t fear or favour. Thus,

Section 94 confers a privilege to the voter to protect himself

both in and outside the Court. This precisely is the principle

known as secrecy of ballot, which Section 94 incorporates . 39 However, if the very secrecy of ballot, instead of ensuring free

and fair election, strikes at the root of the principles of f ree

and fair election, secrecy of ballot would be utilized for

undoing free and fair election and when secrecy of ballot,

instead of ensuring free and fair election, is used for

suppressing a wrong coming into light or fraud on the election

process or even to defend a crime, namely, forgery of ballot

papers, the principle of secrecy of ballot ha s to yield to the

larger principle of free and fair election. 73. The above position of law clearly emerge from the

following observations, made in Rekha Rana Vs. Jaipal

Sharma, reported in (2009) 17 SCC 115: 19. Expressing the view that "secrecy of ballot" as
 provided in Section 94 of the Act was mooted "to ensure
 free and fair elections", the Court opined thus: (Emphasis is added) 74. I n the case of Bhabhi Vs. Sheo Govind , reported in

(1976) 1 SCC 686 , the Supreme Court has, at para 15,

crystallized the grounds on which inspection of ballot papers

can be allowed. The observations, made at para 15, are,

therefore, reproduced below: If all these circumstances enter into the mind of the Judge
 and he is satisfied that these conditions are fulfilled in a
 given case, the exercise of the discretion would
 undoubtedly be proper." (Emphasis is added) 75. From the observations, made in Bhabhi (supra), it

becomes clear that the Court shall not allow inspection so as

to enable an applicant to indulge in a roving enquiry with a

view to fish materials for obtaining a declaration in his favour

that the resul t of the election was void. This apart, the Court

must be prima facie satisfied on the materials produced

before the Court as regards the truth of the allegations made

for an inspection or recount. Furthermore, before inspection is

allowed, the allegations must be proved clearly and

specifically and the Court shall bear i n mind that the secrecy

of ballot is sacrosanct and should not be violated on frivolous,

vague and indefinite allegations. 76. Thus, what becomes clear, from the decision of Bhabhi (supra), is that there is no bar to allow inspection of ballot if

the Court is prima facie satisfied with regard to the tru th of

the allegations made for inspection. 77. A charge of corrupt practice is in the nature of a quasi-

criminal charge and since the consequence of corrupt

practice may not only render the returned candida te‟s

election void, but it may make him disqualified from

contesting election, the charge of corrupt practice must be

established definitely and to the satisfaction of the Court. The

standard of proof, generally speaking, is that of a criminal

trial, which requires strict proof of the charge beyond

reasonable doubt, the burden of proof being on the

candidate, who alleges corrupt practice and that burden

does not shift. However, the Courts have also cautioned that

even though the burden is on the election pe titioner to prove

the charge of corrupt practice, it should not be understood to

mean or imply that the returned candidate is completely

absolved from his liability to bring forth the evidence on

record to revert the case of the election petitioner,

particularly, to prove such facts, which are within the special

knowledge of the elected candidate. This position of law

succinctl y emerges from the observations, made in Govind

Singh Vs. Harchand Kaur , reported in (2011) 2 SCC 621, which

read as under: (Emphasis is added) 78. From the pleadings of the parties and the evidence on

record, it becomes clear that as many a s 44 postal ballots

were, admittedly, counted and these postal ballots have

been received by the respondents. Ou t of the 44 pos tal

ballots, as many as 40 ballots had been received by the

Returning Officer through the unauthorized channel of Sukuni

Sharma (PW4) and the remaining ones being all those voters,

who were not entitled to issuance of postal ballots and whose

postal ballots ought not to have been counted. This apart, it

has also emerged cogently and without any shadow of doubt 44 that as many as 65 pos tal ballots were received by Sukuni

Sharma from Darka Kamsi and these postal ballots did reach

the hands of the Returning Officer. 79. The question, therefore, which confronts this Court is as

to whether it is possible to identify the said 65 postal ballot s by

inspection. 80. While considering the above aspect of the matter, it

needs to be noted that it has clearly surfaced from the

evidence of Gomo Sora (PW43) that Ext. PX 56 is the regis ter,

which was maintained by the Returning Officer and which

contains the record/list of 89 postal ballots issued on the

applications made for postal ballots . The said register has

been acknowledged by PW46 (Jatin Dihingia ), who had

received the said 89 postal ballots for booking , at Aalo Pos t

Office, on 12.10.2009. I n fact, Ext. PX 56(1) is the signature of

Jatin Dihingia. The fact that 89 postal ballots were booked, as

indicated hereinbefore, can be verified from Annexure -1 of

Ext.PX 57 as well as PX 58, which are computerized receipts

maintained by the Postal Departm ent u pon booking of

registered letters. 81. Ext. PX58 has also been exhibited as Ext.PX 26(2),

because Ext.PX 26(2) was provided to the election petitioner

by the Returning Officer in response to the application made

by the election petitioner under the Right t o I nformation Act,

2005, under the Assis tant Returning Officer‟s letter, dated

27.10.2009, the letter having been proved as Ext.26. This apart, 45 Ext.PX58 has been produced and proved by the Returning

Officer (PW30). Apart from the said register and the

computerized receipts, the Pos tal Department also maintains

a consolidated report of booking of registered letters , at

Along Post Office , on 12.10.2009. The said consolidated report

has been produced by the Postal Department on the direction

given by order, da ted 03.03.2011 , passed in Misc. Case

09(AP)/2010 and the same is kept in sealed cover in the

custody of the Registry. 82. The said record is reproduced in Table I hereinbelow: 83. What can be clearly seen from the Table No.1 is that

Table No.1 contains names of 90 persons, because the name

of Shri Tonya Padu has been erroneously mentioned twice,

once at Serial No. 47 and, then, onc e again, at Serial No. 86. 84. What may, now, be pointed is that on an application,

made by the election petitioner under the Right to

Information Act, 2005 , seeking details of the said postal 48 ballots, the Postal Department has given its reply, which is

Exts. PX7 and 8. Annexure- I of the Exhibit 8 is a list of 22

registered letters containing pos tal ballots papers, which were

properly delivered to the addressees in terms of the Postal

Department Report. Annexure I of Exhibit 8 is reproduced

hereinbelow as Table No.2: The names of those 69 persons are, now, reproduced below in
Table 3: (1 ) An elector who has recei ved a postal ballot paper and
 desi res to vote shall record hi s vote on the ballot paper i n
 accordance wi th the di recti ons contai ned i n Part I of Form
 13D and then encl ose i t i n the cover i n Form 13B. (2 ) The elector shall si gn the declarati on i n Form 13A i n the
 presence of, and have the si gnature attested by, a
 sti pendi ary magi strate or such other offi cer speci fi ed below,
 as may be appropr i ate, to whom he i s personally known or to
 whose sati sfacti on h e has been i denti fi ed - (a ) .......... (b ) ............... (c ) ............ (d ) ........ (e ) ......... 54. Mai ntenance of secrecy of voti ng. -The returni ng officer
shall, before he commences the counti ng, read out the
provi si ons of section 128 to such persons as ma y be present.

54A. Counti ng of votes recei ved by post. - (1 ) The returni ng
offi cer shall fi rst deal wi th the postal ballot papers i n
the manner herei nafter provi ded. (2 ) No cover i n Form 13C recei ved by the returni ng offi cer
after the expi ry of the ti me fi xed i n that behalf shall be
opened and no vote contai ned i n any such cover shall be
counted. (3 ) The other covers shall be opened one after another and
as each cover i s opened, the returni ng offi cer shall fi rst
scruti nise the declarati on i n Form 13A contai ned therei n.

(4 ) If the sai d declarati on i s not found, or has not been duly
si gned and attested, or is otherwi se substanti ally
defecti ve, or i f the seri al number of the ballot paper as
entered i n i t di ffers fro m the seri al number endorsed on the
cover i n Form 13B, that cover shall not be opened, and
after maki ng an appropri ate endorsement thereon, the
returni ng officer shall reject the ballot paper therei n
contai ned. (5 ) Each cover so endorsed and the d eclarati on recei ved
wi th i t shall be replaced i n the cover i n Form 13C and all
such covers i n Form 13C shall be kept i n a separate packet
whi ch shall be sealed and on whi ch shall be recorded the
name of the consti tuenc y, the date of counti ng and a bri ef
descri pti on of i ts content. (6 ) The retur ni ng offi cer shall then place all the
declarati ons i n Form 13A whi ch he has found to be i n order
i n a separate packet whi ch shall be sealed before any
cover i n Form 13B is opened and on whi ch shall be recorded
the parti culars referred to i n sub -rule (5). (7 ) The covers i n Form 13B not already dealt wi th under the
foregoi ng provi si ons of thi s rule shall then be opened one
after another and the returni ng offi cer shall scruti nise each
ballot paper a nd deci de the validi ty of the vote record
thereon. (8) A postal ballot paper shall be rejected - 1[(a ) i f i t bears any mark (other than mark to record the
vote ) or wri ti ng by whi ch the elector can be i denti fi ed; or]

2[(aa ) i f no vote i s reco rded thereon; or 57 (b ) i f noted are gi ven on i t i n favour of more candidates
 than one; or (c) if it is a spurious ballot paper; or

 (d ) i f i t i s so damaged or muti lated that i ts i denti ty as a
 genui ne ballot paper cannot be establi shed; or

 (e ) i f i t i s not returned i n the cover sent along wi th i t to
 the elector b y the r eturni ng offi cer. (9 ) A vote recorded on a postal ballot paper shall be
 rej ected i f the mark i ndi cati ng the vote i s placed on the
 ballot paper i n such manner as to make i t doubtful to whi ch
 candi date the vote has been gi ven. (10 ) A vote recorded on a postal ballot paper shall not be
 rej ected merely on the ground that the mark i ndi cati ng the
 vote i s i ndi sti nct or made more than once, i f the i ntenti on
 that the vote shall be for a parti cular candi date clearly
 appears from the way the paper i s marked. (11 ) The returni ng offi cer shall count all the vali d votes
 gi ven by postal b allot i n favour of each candi dates, record
 the total thereof i n the result she et in Form 20 and announce
 the same. (12 ) Thereafter, all the vali d ballot papers and all the
 rej ected ballot p apers shall be separately bundled and
 kept together i n a packet whi ch shall be sealed wi th the
 seals of the returni ng offi cer and of such of the candi dates,
 thei r electi on agents or counti ng agents as may desi re to
 affi x thei r seals thereon and on the packet so sealed shall be
 recorded the name of the consti tuency, the date of
 counti ng and a bri ef descri pti on of i ts contents.] 91. I t will be seen from the Rules , reproduced above, that

there are certain statu tory requirements with respect to postal

ballots. One of the most important requirements being that

the postal voter shall sign the declaration in Form 13A in the

presence of, and have the signature atteste d by, a

stipendiary magistrate or such other officer specified in sub

rule (2). The attestation by the Magistrate or the authorized 58 officials attaches authenticity to the postal ballots. Sub-Rule

(4) of Rule 54A provides that I f the said declaration is not

found, or has not been duly signed and attested, or is,

otherwise, substantially defective, or if the serial number of

the ballot paper , as entered in it, differs from the serial

number endorsed on the cover , in Form 13B, that cover shall

not be opened, and after making an appropriate

endorsement thereon, the returning officer shall rejec t the

ballot paper therein contained. 92. The dictionary meaning of the word spurious is „not being

what it purports to be; false or fake‟. Thus when we speak of

spurious postal ballot it conveys a meaning that the vote ,

shown agains t the ballot, has not been cast by the regis tered

voter to whom it was issued even though it might give the

impression that it had been cast by the registered voter. 93. According to Rule 56 (5), all rejected ballot paper s shall

be arranged in a bundle and the ballots , which are not

rejected , shall be counted as one valid vote. Thus, the

number of valid votes depends upon the ballots , which have

been rejected. Hence, a wrong result may surface if those

ballots, which should actually have been rejected, are

counted as valid vote s. COURSES OPEN TO THE COURT ON PROOF OF CORRUPT
PRACTICES COMMITTED BY THE RESPONDENT AS A CANDIDATE ,
THE NUMBER OF CANDIDA TES, IN THE ELECTION BEING TWO
ONLY - WHETHER INSPECTION AND/OR RECOUNTING WOULD BE
NECESSARY 59 94. In the case of Prakash Khandre vs Dr. Vijaya Kumar

Khandre , reported in (2002) 5 SCC 568 , one of the questions

before the Supreme Court was ; 1. In an Election Petition under the Representation of the
 People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act'),
 when contest for election to the post of MLA is by more
 than two candidates for one seat and a candidate, who
 was disqualified to contest the election, is elected
 whether the Court can declare a candidate who has
 secured next higher votes as elected? 95. The Court answered the ques tion , in the affirmative, in

the following manner; 96. Again, in Lata Devi (Mali) v. Haru Rajwar , reported in

(1989) 4 SCC 773, the Supreme Court deal t with the same

question and observed as under: - 97. From the above two decisions , what emerge is that in an

election, if there are more than two candidates and one of

them is disqualified, the second highest scorer of votes cannot

be declared elected by defaul t , because, firstl y, there exists

no such provision in the code and secondly , such a

declaration would be speculative . 98. In the case of Prakash Khandre (supra), the Court

referred to a Constitutional Bench judgment , delivered in the

case of Konappa Rudrappa Nadgouda vs Vishwanath Reddy (AIR 1969 SC 604). I n this case , the decision of Keshav Laxman

Borkar v. Dr. Devrao Laxman Anande, (MANU/SC/0106/1959 was called in question. Keshav Laxmnan (supra) had decided

that a candidate , whose nomination paper is accepted after

scrutiny, is a validly nominated candidate "at least for the

purpose of receiving votes at the election", and that the

candidate must be treated as a person for whom votes could

be given. The Court on that view held that where there are

only two candidates for a seat and the election of the

candidate declared elected is set aside on the ground that he

was disqualified, the defeated candidate cannot be declared

elected, and there must be a fresh election . I n the opinion of

the Court, the votes cas t, in favour of the disqualified

candidate, cannot be said to be thrown away unless there is

a "special pleading" that certain voters had cast their votes

with the knowledge or notice that the candidate for whom

they had voted was not eligible for election and they had 61 deliberately thrown away their votes in fa vour of the

disqualified person. I n the absence of such a plea , it cannot

be said that the votes , cas t in favour of a person , who was , by

law, disqualified from being nominated, bu t who was , in fac t,

nominated, were thrown away. In the Court's view , a

defeated candidate , out of the two, who had contested the

election, may be declared elected under Section 84 read with Section 101 of the Act if he proves that the voters had notice

of the disqualification of the succes sful candidate. 99. The above view , taken in Keshav Borkar case, was

overruled in the case of Konappa Rudrappa Nadgouda (supra)

and the observation of the Court was as follows; 11. But in our judgment the rule which has prevailed in
 the British Courts for a long tune has no application in
 our country. Section 53 of the Representation of the
 People Act renders a poll necessary only if there are
 more candidates contesting the election than the
 number of seats contested. If the number of candidates
 validly nominated is equal to the number of seats to be
 filled, no poll is necessary. Where by an erroneous order
 of the Returning Officer poll is held which, but for that
 order, was not necessary, the Court would be justified in
 declaring those contesting candidates elected, who, but
 for the order, would have been declared elected. The
 rule enunciated by the Courts in the United Kingdom has
 only the merit of antiquity. But the rule cannot be
 extended to the trial of disputes under our election law,
 for it is not cons istent with our statute law, and in any
 case the conditions prevailing in our country do not
 justify the application of that rule. If the rule is applied in
 our country, the provisions of Section 84 read with
 Section 101(a) would practically be nugatory. A part from
 the immense cost of intimating each voter in the vast
 electorate in the constituencies the rule that a defeated
 candidate may be declared elected only if he pleads
 and proves that the voters had notice of the
 disqualification would render the exc eption in the
 context of prevailing illiteracy and ignorance of large
 sections of the electorate in our country, a dead letter.
 A very large percentage of the electorate in our country
 is, unfortunately illiterate and sections thereof not 62 infrequently speak a language different from the
language of the majority. It would be well nigh
impossible to give information of the disqualification of a
candidate in a medium which the illiterate electors
understand. We are again unable to see any logic in the
assumption that votes cast in favour of a person who is
regarded by the Returning Officer as validly nominated,
but who is in truth disqualified, could still be treated as
valid votes, for the purpose of determining whether a
fresh election should be held. When th ere are only two
contesting candidates, and one of them is under a
statutory disqualification, votes cast in favour of the
disqualified candidate may be regarded as thrown
away, irrespective of whether the voters who voted for
him were aware of the disqual ification. This is not to say
that where there are more than two candidates in the
field for a single seat, and one alone is disqualified, on
proof of disqualification all the votes cast in his favour
will be discarded and the candidate securing the next
highest number of votes will be declared elected. In
such a case, question of notice to the voters may
assume significance, for the voters may not, if aware of
the disqualification have voted for the disqualified
candidate. 12. The view that we are taking i s consistent with the
implication of Clause (b) of Section 101. When in an
election petition which complies with Section 84 of the
Act it is found at the hearing that some votes were
obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt
practices, the Court is bou nd to declare the petitioner or
another candidate elected if, but for the votes obtained
by the returned candidate by corrupt practice, such
candidate would have obtained a majority of votes . In
cases falling under Clause (b) of Section 101 the Act
requires merely proof of corrupt practice, and obtaining
votes by corrupt practice: it does not require proof that
the voters whose votes are secured by corrupt practice
had notice of the corrupt practice. If for the application
of the rule contained in Clause (b ) notice to the voters is
not a condition precedent, we see no reason why it
should be insisted upon in all cases under Clause (a). The
votes obtained by corrupt practice by the returned
candidate, proved to be guilty of corrupt practice, are
expressly excluded in the computation of total votes for
ascertaining whether a majority of votes had been
obtained by the defeated candidate, and no fresh poll
is necessary. The same rule should, in our judgment,
apply when at an election there are only two
candidates and the returned candidate is found to be
under a statutory disqualification existing at the date of
the filling of the nomination paper . (Emphasis is added) 63 100. Thus, on the discussions of the ratio , laid down in the

case of Kondappa Laxman (supra), the law surfaces as under: 101. Now, this case is peculiar in one sense that unlike many

other election s, constituencies , where, ordinarily, several

candidates contest the election, this particular election, for

the 30 Aalo cons ti tuency, was such that the petitioner and the

respondent were the only competing candidates. Thus, all the

valid votes would be shared only by these two candidates.

The 44 votes, which ought to have been rejec ted, but which

have counted in favour of the res pondent, could not have

been considered as valid vote and should have been

excluded from computation. 102. The very ground on which the election of the respondent has

been challenged is that it is the election petitioner, who would have won

the election, but because of the fact that as many as 45 postal ballots, 64 which were, otherwise, spurious and forged, had been counted, though

there was specific order passed earlier by the Returning Officer not to

count these postal ballots inasmuch as they had been received by the

authorities concerned through illegal and unauthorised channels. The

respondent, thus, came out as the returned candidate. The difference in

the votes was, according to the election petitioner, due to improper

reception of the postal ballots and illegal counting of the same. This

apart, the respondent obtained active help and support of Gazetted

Officers of the State Government, including the Returning Officer, in

getting the said forged postal ballots counted in his favour. Thus, the

respondent indulged in corrupt practice for the purpose of winning the

election. 103. The fact which is not in dispute is that the result of the election was

declared, on 22.10.2009, wherein the respondent was declared as the

elected candidate having 5113 votes polled in his favour as against the

5082 votes polled in favour of the election petitioner, the difference, in

votes, obtained by the petitioner and the respondent, being 31 (thirty

one) votes only. 104. I t has, now, become necessary to revisit the chain of

events proved in the foregoing discussions; 1. Ext. PX 56 register goes to show that 89 registered letters, each
containing one postal ballot, pertaining to the voters of 30 Aalo
West Assembly Constituency, were booked, by registered post, on
12.10.2009, by Gomo Sora (PW43), Presiding Officer, Postal Ballot. 2. 89 postal ballots were received by Postal Assistant, Jatin Dihingia (PW46),
from Gomo Sora, on 12.10.2009, by putting his signature, which stands proved
as Ext. PX 56(1). This fact has been confirmed by Jatin Dihingia (PW46) too. 65 3. PW2 (C.L. Lalfakzuala), who is Director of Postal Services, Arunachal
Pradesh, produced the record (PX33) showing delivery status of the postal
ballots, in question, as per official record maintained by the Postal Department.
The said document (PX33) bears the registered letter numbers, names of the
postal ballot applicants as well as the destination Post Offices confirming the
fact that as many as 69 postal ballots, out of the said 89 postal ballots, had
never been delivered to their respective applicants and remained traceless. 4. Ext. PX5 is the letter, dated 03.11.2009, issued by Itanagar Head
Post Office, under the signature of the Post Master, Deputy Post Master
and the Postal Assistant, furnishing particulars of 57 postal ballots of 30
Aalo West Assembly Constituency, which were never received by
Itanagar Post Office. The respective Sub-Post Masters, i.e., PWs 34 to 39,
have also confirmed that they had never received the postal ballots
addressed to the respective post offices. 5. The evidence of Sukuni Sharma (PW4) has confirmed the fact
that 65 letters , addressed to the Assi stant Returning Officer, were
received by her, on 20.10.2009, at about 7 am, from one person,
whom she has identified as Darka Kamsi. I t may be noted, in this
regard, that Darka Kamsi was also a counting agent of the
respondent at the place of counting. I n her cross -examination by
the election petiti oner, on being declared hostile, PW4 (Sukuni
Sharma) has admitted that she stated before the enquiry officer
(PW3) that there were postal ballots inside the 65 envelopes, which
had been handed over to her. PW4 has also confirmed the fact
that the Assistant Returning Officer took, on 20.10.2009, the said 65
letters from her. 6. The Returning Offic er (PW30) has confirmed the fact that 65
postal ballot papers, which were in his custody on 20.10.2009,
were illegally received by Sukuni Sharma on 20.10.2009 and the
said fact has also been reflected in his (Returning Officer‟s) order ,
dated 22.10.2009, which is marked as Ext. PX52. 7. That as many as 40 spurious postal ballots, belonging to the
said bunch of 65 spurious ballots, received through unauthorised 66 channel of Sukuni Sharma, had, indeed, been counted by the
Returning Officer in favour of the res pondent. 8. The Returning Officer has also confirmed, in his evidence, on
the basis of the contents of Ext. PX52, the fact that he had, by
order, dated 22.10.2009 (as reflected from Ext. PX52) rejected 48
postal ballots from the bunch of 65 postal ballots received from
unauthorised channel of Sukuni Sharma. 9. That as many as 17 postal ballots from the said bunch of 65
spurious postal ballots, received by Sukuni Sharma (Pw4), came to
be counted by the Returning Officer despite being aware of the
fact that these spurious ballots had gone missing and, having been
received through unauthorised channel, ought not to have been
counted. 10. PW30 (Returning Officer) has also confirmed that besides 17
postal ballots from the said bunch of 65 postal ballots (which
were all rejected by him at the initial stage), 23 postal ballots , out
of the remai ning 48 rejected postal ballots , came to be also
counted b y him. 11. I t has been further confirmed during the i nspecti on, held on
17.03.2011, that four spurious pos tal ballots, issued in the name of
Jaiprakash Tiwari, Karto Ete, Jompi Padu and Penya Ete were also
counted, on the orders of the Returning Officer, in favour of the
returned candidate, though Jaiprakash Tiwari was a person, whose
name stood, admittedly, d eleted from the voters list and whose
vote could not have been counted; Karto Ete is a person, whose
name was included twice, i.e., in the electoral roll in part 13 Serial
No.430 and, again, in part 14 Serial No.320 and, henc e, none of
these postal ballots could have been counted and, yet, his postal
ballot has been counted; similarly, Jompi Padu, a school student,
was issued postal ballot against an application, made in Form
No.12, b y Nyojum Ete. The postal ballot, issued to Jompi Padu, too,
ought not have, thus, been counted. 12. The Returning Offi cer had, in fact, counted 44 void votes in
favour of the resp ondent, which has materially affected the result
of the poll. These 44 votes are all void votes and ought not to have
been counted in favour of any cand idate. I f these 44 votes were
kept excluded from the p oll process, as ought to have been done
by the Returning Officer (PW30), then, the petitioner would have,
obviously, received, unless shown otherwise, the majority of valid
votes and emerge d, as contended by her, the winning candidate. 105. The above proven facts leave no room for doubt that at

least, there were 44 votes, which ought to have been

rejected, and this is a fact, which even the Returning Officer

has confirmed. Thus, applying the ratio laid down in the case

of Konappa Rudrappa (supra), these 44 pos tal ballots, being

spuriated ones, are required to be excluded from the process

of counting. These 44 votes would be subtracted from 5113

votes, the total votes polled by the respondent, and the net result would

be that the respondent can be said to have received, and I hold, in the

facts and circumstances of the case and the law relevant thereto, that

he had received, in all, 5069 votes; whereas the petitioner had,

admittedly, received 5082 votes. 106. It may be noted at this juncture that in this case, the petitioner has

sought the relief of declaring her as elected after making a declaration

that the election of the respondent is void. The respondent had the

liberty of filing a recrimination petition raising those pleas, which he could

have taken as per law. Respondent has filed recrimination petition, but it

has not been pursued or pressed. There is no challenge to the votes

polled in favour of the petitioner and no dispute has been raised as

regards the fact that the petitioner had received 5082 valid votes in the

election. 107. In the proved circumstances and on the status of the pleadings,

the petitioner is found to have received 5082 votes; whereas the

respondent is found to have received 5069 votes. 108. No inspection and/or recounting of the votes is found to be

necessary in the present facts inasmuch as such an exercise is, ordinarily,

taken to ascertain the actual poll pattern among the contesting

candidates and also to ascertain whether a vote, which has been

accepted as valid, ought to have been rejected. The petitioner has led

credible and convincing evidence and it is proved beyond all

reasonable doubt that the respondent resorted to corrupt practices in

garnering, at least, 44 postal votes, in his favour, in order to see himself as

a successful candidate by hoodwinking the electoral process and in

gross violation of the statutory instructions. 109. Thus, for the reasons cited above, there remains no escape from

the conclusion that the election of the respondent from No.30 Aalo West

Assembly (ST) Constituency, Arunchal Pradesh, is liable to be declared as

void. 110. Since it is not in dispute that the petitioner was the only other

contesting candidate in the said election and she had polled 5082 votes

as against 5069 votes found to have been polled by the respondent,

after deducting those postal ballots, which ought to have been

rejected, there remains no prohibition, having reminded , again,

of the ratio laid down in Konappa Rudrappa (supra), in declaring

the petitioner as elected to the No. 30 Aalo West Assembly (ST)

Constituency, Arunachal Pradesh as she has secured the highest

number of votes. 111. In the resul t, the petitioner, having proved her case, is

entitled to the relief that t he election of the respondent for

the 30 Aalo Wes t Assembly Constituency is void. 112. Having secured highest number of votes the petitioner is

entitled to a further declaration that she has been duly

elected to 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency in the election

held on 13.10.2009. 113. The issue Nos. f, g & h are, therefore, decided in

affirmative and in favour of the petitioner. 114. The election petition is allowed on contest with cost. 115. I t is hereby declared that the election of the respondent

to the No. 30 Aalo West Assembly (ST) Constituency, Arunachal

Pradesh, is void. 116. It is further declared that the petitioner has been duly elected

to 30 Aalo West Assembly Constituency in the election held on

13.10.2009. 117. An authenticated copy of this judgment be sent to the

Election Commission and the Speaker of the Arunachal

Pradesh Legislative Assembly in accordance with the

provisions of Section 103 of the ROP Act, 1951. 118. With the above observations and directions, this election

petition shall stand disposed of. JUDGE

rknjdutt 70