1. Vide this judgment, this court shall dispose of the present complaint filed by
 Surender Singh Through SPA Holder Satpal Singh Mann, (hereinafter referred
 to as 'the complainant') against Shanker Mudgal (hereinafter referred as 'the
 accused') under section 138 of The Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
 (hereinafter referred to as ' NI Act '). Brief Facts :- 2. It is the case of the complainant that, the complainant had booked a shop unit
 number FF-024 for Rs. 16,47,912/- in Parsvnath City, Center, Bhiwadi,
 Rajasthan under construction link payment plan signed by Commercial Space
 Builder Buyer Agreement dated 05.12.2007 and paid total Rs. 11,42,876/-.
 However, there was a dispute between the complainant and the builder due to
 incomplete structure and delivery delayed as per the commitment. In August
 2019, accused approached brother of the complainant Sh. Satyender Rana
 (previous POA Holder) to settle dispute between the complainant and Parsvnath
 Builder by getting the complete amount refund due to his close connection with
 Parsvnath Builder. The accused won trust and good faith of the complainant and
 took most of the original property related documents and some signed plain
 papers from the complainant for quick process of refund. Thereafter, despite
 passage of several months when the accused kept making excuses, complainant
 inquired and found that the accused has got the shop transferred to another
 person (Accused's father) without complainant's knowledge. Upon which, the
 accused accepted his fault and promised to make the full payment. In lieu of the
 same, the accused issued two cheques - cheque bearing no. 006197 amounting
 Rs. 4,00,000/- and cheque bearing no. 006144 amounting to Rs. 1,00,000/- and
 assured that he will make online transfer against the remaining amount of

CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 Digitally
 signed by
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 2 of 23 Deepika
 Deepika
 Yadav
 Yadav Date: 3. Vide order dated 09.10.2021, accused Shankar Mudgal was summoned by the
 Court, who then appeared on 07.12.2021. 4. Thereafter, notice as per mandate of Section 251 of the Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as "the Cr.P.C .") was put to the accused
 on 02.03.2022. The contents of notice were read over and explained to the
 accused in vernacular to which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 5. In his plea of defence, the accused stated: Digitally
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 signed by
 Deepika
 Deepika Yadav
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 3 of 23 Yadav Date: 6. The accused his signature, filling of particulars on the cheque in question, the
 cheque having been drawn from an account maintained by him and receipt of
 legal demand notice. 7. Thereafter, vide order dated 31.07.2023, application of the accused u/s 145(2) of NI Act was allowed and the matter was listed for CE. Complainant's Evidence :- 8. During the trial, complainant has led both oral and documentary evidence to
 prove its case. Power of attorney holder of the complainant, Mr. Satpal Singh
 Mann, stepped in witness box as CW-1 and adopted his affidavit of pre-
 summoning as his evidence, reiterating all averments of the complaint and
 stating all exhibits :- 9. Power of attorney holder of the complainant was then duly cross-examined by
 Ld. Counsel for the accused and discharged on 03.02.2025. 10.Thereafter, upon statement of the Power of attorney holder of the complainant
 that he does not wish to examine any other witness, CE was closed. Digitally

CC NI ACT : 13585/2021
 signed by
 Deepika
 Deepika Yadav
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 4 of 23 Yadav Date: 11.As per the mandate of Section 313, read with Section 281 of Cr.P.C., all
 incriminating pieces of evidence were put to accused and his statement was
 recorded on 03.03.2025, wherein the accused stated : 12.The accused stated that he wishes to lead defence evidence and hence the matter
 was listed for defence evidence. Defence Evidence :- 13.Accused examined himself as DW-1 and produced the following documents :- 14.He was duly cross examined by Ld. Counsel for the complainant and discharged
 on 28.07.2025. 15.Thereafter, upon statement of the accused that he does not wish to examine any
 other witness, DE was closed vide order dated 28.07.2025. Final Arguments :- 16.Final arguments of the parties heard. Written submissions filed by the accused
 perused and considered. Legal Analysis :- 17. Before dwelling into the facts of the present case, it would be apposite to
 discuss the legal essential ingredients to be fulfilled in order to establish the
 offence under Section 138 of NI Act. In Gimpex Private Limited vs. Manoj
 Goel (2022) 11 SCC 705, the Hon'ble Apex court has unpacked the ingredients
 forming the basis of the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act in the
 following structure :- 18. Therefore, the complainant must prove the afore-mentioned ingredients co-
 extensively in order to establish liability of the accused under Section 138 of the
 NI Act. Analysis on merits

 With Respect To First, Third and Fourth Ingredient :- 19.It is pertinent form the pleadings and the record that the cheque-in-question (Ex.
 CW - 1/1) were presented within three months from the date of issuance i.e.,
 25.12.2020 and was dishonoured with remarks "Drawers signature illegible" 20.The accused has not disputed the cheques having been drawn on his bank

CC NI ACT : 13585/2021
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 7 of 23 Digitally
 signed by
 Deepika Deepika
 Date: 21.In order to the establish the fifth ingredient i.e, failure of the accused to make
 payment of the cheque amount within 15 days from the receipt of the notice, the
 complainant has produced postal receipt dated 26.03.2025, to show that the
 notice was issued and served upon the accused, despite which he failed to make
 payment within 15 days. a. At the time of framing of notice against the accused on 02.03.2022,
 accused had admitted receipt of legal demand notice. He had further
 stated that he even replied to the legal demand notice, however, at the
 time of recording of statement of the accused u/s 313 of Cr.P.C., accused
 stated that he had refused to receive the legal demand notice as it was not
 in his name. It is a settled principle of law that refusal to receive the
 notice is deemed as service of notice upon the accused.
 b. Moreover, the accused admitted his address mentioned in the legal
 demand notice. It raises the presumption under Section 27 of General
 Clauses Act and Section 114 of the Indian evidence act, 1872 that the
 legal demand notice was served upon the accused.
 c. In this regard, it is relevant to refer the decision of Hon'ble Apex Court in
 the case of M/s. Indo Automobiles vs. M/s. Jai Durga Enterprises and

CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 Digitally
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 8 of 23 signed by
 Deepika
 Deepika Yadav
 Yadav Date: 22.Further, it is an admitted position that the payment of the cheque amount was
 not made by the accused within the statutory period upon service of notice and
 consequently, requirement of fifth ingredient for the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act (as laid out in Para 17 of this judgement) also stands fulfilled in
 the present matter. With Respect To Second Ingredient :- 23.In order to establish the second ingredient i.e, cheque was drawn by the drawer
 in discharge of any legally enforceable debt or other liability, the POA holder of
 the complainant has filed evidence by way of an affidavit wherein, he has
 reiterated the averments in the complaint and stated all exhibits on oath. He has
 deposed that the cheques in question were issued by the accused in discharge of
 his liability of Rs. 4,00,000/- and other averments of the complaint. Defence of the Accused 24.The accused has raised following pleas in his defence: 25. Firstly, the central defence of the accused that his name is that the identity of
 the drawer is not established and hence the complaint is liable to be dismissed. a. Throughout the trial, the accused has stated that his name is "Uma Shankar
 Sharma" and not "Shankar Mudgal" as mentioned in the memo of parties.
 Ld. Counsel for the accused has therefore argued that the person named in
 the memo of parties "Shankar Mudgal" is not the account holder of the bank
 account on which the cheque has been drawn and hence the complaint is
 defective as the identity of the drawer is not established and hence the
 complaint is liable to be dismissed. b. Per contra, Ld. Counsel for the complainant has argued that accused
 deliberately stated his name as "Shankar Mudgal", throughout his dealings
 with the complainant with intention to deceive the complainant.
 c. Therefore, the question to be analyzed by the court is, whether the accused is
 the person who had drawn the cheque and owes the liability under the
 present complaint or is he an absolute stranger to the present case who has
 been falsely and malafidely implicated in the present proceedings.
 d. Upon perusal of the record, it is pertinent that at the time of framing of
 notice, accused admitted having known the complainant. In his plea of
 defence he stated that he had an agreement with the complainant under
 which he owed certain liability which he has already partially discharged.
 The accused admitted his signatures on the cheque in question and the
 cheque having been drawn from his bank account, he however alleged that
 his name is not Shankar Mudgal. e. At the time of recording of his statement under section 313 Cr.P.C. also, he
 stated that his name is "Uma Shankar Sharma" and not "Shankar Mudgal".
 He further stated that he knew the previous power of attorney holder of the
 complainant Satinder Rana and gave the cheque as a goodwill gesture to
 him. f. At the time of defence evidence, as DW -1, accused majorly reiterated his
 previous statement and stated that his name is "Uma Shankar Sharma" and

 Digitally
 signed by
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 Deepika
 Deepika
 Yadav
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 10 of 23 Yadav Date: 26.Secondly, it is the defence of the accused that he did not sign the cheque, his
 signatures on the cheque in question have been forged and the cheque has been
 misused. a. At the outset it is imperative to mention the law on presumptions on the
 issue. Section 118(e) of the Negotiable Instruments Act provides as follows : b. At this juncture, it is pertinent to discuss the recent judgement of the Hon'ble
 supreme Court, in the case of Ajitsinh Chehuji Rathod vs The State Of
 Gujarat (SLP(Crl.) No. 16641of 2023, wherein, seized with the same issue,
 Hon'ble Apex Court made the following observation : c. In view of the above discussion, the settled position of law that emerges is
 that presumptions u/s 118(e) operates in favour of the complainant that the
 indorsements made on the cheque i.e., signatures affixed on the cheque in
 the drawer column were actually affixed by the drawer of the cheque i.e., the
 accused. Therefore, the burden to rebut the presumption shifts upon the
 accused to establish his defence. d. It is pertinent from the record that at time of framing of notice, the accused
 admitted his signature of the cheque in question. No suggestion regarding
 forgery of signatures on the cheque has been put to the SPA Holder of the
 complainant during his cross-examination. However, later at the stage of
 recording of his statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C. and during defence
 evidence, accused denied his signatures on the cheque. Moreover, during the
 cross-examination he stood contradicted in light of the statement made by
 him at the time of framing of notice against him. e. Also, the accused has not led any evidence or applied for the summoning of
 certified copy of his specimen signatures from his bank to disprove his
 signatures on the cheque in question. Furthermore, upon perusal of the return
 memos of the cheque in question, it can be observed that the cheque has
 been returned with the endorsement of "drawers signature illegible" and not
 due to difference in signatures of the drawer or due to stoppage of payment
 by the accused. f. Even if contention of the accused is accepted that he did not sign the cheque,
 then also, the fact that the accused failed to take any action upon receipt of
 intimation, of the dishonour of the cheque, from the bank or upon receipt of
 legal demand notice sent by the complainant doesn't inspire the confidence
 of the court that the accused neither issued the cheque in question and nor
 does the cheque bears his signature. Also, it has been admitted by the
 accused that the cheque-in-question was drawn on the account maintained by
 him. g. Therefore, denial of the signatures on the cheque by the accused appears to
 be an after-though. The accused has miserably failed to rebut presumptions
 of the indorsement of his signature on the cheque in question. Presumptions and Burden of Proof :- 27.It is a settled principle of law that once the signature of the accused on the
 cheque in question is established, presumptions under Section 139 of the NI Act
 arise against the accused with respect to the existence of legally enforceable
 debt/liability and in favour of the complainant. 28. Section 139 of NI Act being a reverse onus clause, the onus is now upon the
 accused to rebut the mandatory presumptions under the NI Act by raising a
 probable defence on the standard of preponderance of probabilities to show that

 Digitally
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 signed by
 Deepika
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 14 of 23 Deepika Yadav
 Yadav Date: 29.To rebut the presumption, it is open for the accused to rely on evidence led by
 him or the accused can also rely on the materials submitted by the complainant
 in order to raise a probable defence. Inference of preponderance of probabilities
 can be drawn not only from the materials brought on record by the parties but
 also by reference to the circumstances upon which they rely. (Reliance has been
 placed on Basalingappa vs. Mudibasappa (2019) 5 SCC 418) 30.Accordingly, in the present case, presumption under Section 139 of NI Act
 arises in favour of the complainant that the cheque was issued by the accused in
 discharge of a legally enforceable debt or liability. The complainant has
 discharged its initial burden of proof. Hence, now it must be seen whether the
 accused has been able to rebut the presumption of law on a scale of
 preponderance of probabilities by raising a plausible defence. 31.Thirdly, accused denied existence of any legally enforceable debt in favour of
 the complainant. a. The accused has stated that the there was no legally enforceable debt in
 favour of the complainant, he had issued the cheque in question to Mr.
 Satender Rana as a gesture of goodwill in unrelated dealing.
 b. However, in order to rebut the presumption of law and to prove non-
 existence of any legally enforceable debt or liability, the accused has neither
 led any oral nor any documentary evidence to support his defence. It is
 pertinent from the record that the accused has not disputed that the cheques
 in question have been drawn on a bank account maintained by him. It is
 clear from the cheque that it was issued in favour of the complainant i.e.,
 Surender Singh, and the accused had even admitted filling up of particulars
 Digitally
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 signed by
 Deepika
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 15 of 23 Deepika Yadav
 Yadav Date: 32.Fourthly, the accused stated that he had made full payment to the complainant
 even before issuance of the legal demand notice.
 a. In support of his defence, accused produced the statement of account of his
 bank. (Ex. DW -1/2) As per the same, payment of Rs. 4,00,000/- (Rs.
 1,00,000/- by way of cheque and Rs. 3,00,000/- by way of online transfer)
 has been shown to made to the complainant on 24.03.2021. In light of the
 above, the accused has established the payment of Rs. 4,00,000/-, however,
 it does not contradict or raise any doubt on the version of the complainant,
 since the complainant in his complaint, as well as, the POA holder of the
 complainant at the time of his evidence has specifically stated that payment
 of Rs. 4,00,000/- (Rs. 1,00,000/0 by way of cheque and Rs. 3,00,000/- by
 way of online transfer) was received by the complainant against the total
 liability of Rs. 11,42,876/-. b. Therefore, Ex. DW -1/2 only aligns with and affirms the story of the
 complainant. Furthermore, at the cost of repetition it is observed that, the
 failure of the accused to take legal action against the complainant on misuse
 of the cheque despite repayment further raises doubt on the story of the
 accused. c. To add insult to injury, at one instance the accused admits being acquainted
 with the complainant and dealing with him. He also produced his bank
 account statement as proof of repayment of Rs. 4,00,000. However at
 another instance, he says that he does not know the complainant and never
 met him. The accused cannot blow hot and cold in the same breath. 33.Fifthly, Ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that the power of attorney has
 not been proved and hence the deposition of purported POA Holder is hearsay

 Digitally
 signed by
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 Deepika
 Deepika Yadav
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 17 of 23 Yadav Date: g. In the present case, despite extensive cross-examination of the POA holder
 of the complainant, the witness has stood by and re-affirmed all facts
 pertaining to the transaction in question. His evidence and testimony appears
 very natural and has remained untainted and unassailed throughout . CW-1
 has proved to a be a credible witness and the accused has failed to poke
 holes in the case of the complainant or raise any doubt on the knowledge of
 the POA holder. Therefore, it cannot be said that the POA holder of the
 complainant does not have knowledge of the transaction in question.
 h. As far as the contention of absence of specific and explicit averment in the
 Digitally
 signed by
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 Deepika
 Deepika Yadav
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 20 of 23 Yadav Date: 34.Lastly, Ld. Counsel for the accused stated that the transaction was illegal. It is
 the established case of the complainant that upon failure of the builder to hand
 over the property as promised, the accused convinced the complainant that he
 will get him the refund of the amount from the builder. However, the accused
 transferred the property in question in the name of his father of which. Against
 the partial discharge of his liability, the cheque-in question was issued by the
 accused. Therefore, the transaction is not unlawful or against public policy in

 Digitally
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 signed by
 Deepika
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 21 of 23 Deepika Yadav
 Yadav Date: 35.At this juncture, this Court deems it necessary to encapsulate the object and
 purposes of the provisions the Negotiable Instruments Act which provide a
 guiding lamp to the Courts while deciding on the matter related to negotiable
 instruments. It would be trite to refer to the Apex Court in Dalmia Cement
 (Bharat) Ltd vs M/S Galaxy Trades & Agencies Ltd , 2001(6) SCC 463 which
 observed thus: 36.Thus, in such cases, the Court must examine & analyse whether the effort of the
 accused in such a case is to defeat the objectives of law by resorting to
 innovative and strange measures. Such attempt on the part of the parties must be
 discouraged and put to an end to by the Court. It is the bounden duty of the
 Court to curb such attempts of the parties who deviate the objectives of law
 contemplated Under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. 37.Therefore, on an overall consideration of the record and in light of the above
 discussion, the Court finds that the complainant has been able to establish all
 ingredients of the offence under section 138 of the NI Act. However, the
 accused has taken unsubstantiated and contradictory defences to build a
 concocted story and by deceiving the complainant by introducing himself with a
 different name. The accused has also not left any stone unturned to then take
 advantage of his deceit by disputing his identity while at the same time,
 admitting the cheque. The accused cannot be allowed to resort to such deceptive
 Digitally
 signed by
CC NI ACT : 13585/2021 Deepika
 Deepika Yadav
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 22 of 23 Yadav Date: 38.In the teeth of the aforesaid analysis, the accused has failed to establish a
 plausible defence, whereas the complainant has established his case against the
 accused. All ingredients of the offence u/s 138 of NI Act, (as mentioned in Para
 17 of the judgement) stands established by the complainant for sustaining
 conviction of the accused under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act,
 1881. Final Order :- This judgment contains 23 pages and each page has been signed by the
 presiding officer. Announced in Open Court On 20.09.2025. Digitally
 signed by
 Deepika Deepika Yadav
 Date: Judicial Magistrate of First Class (NI Act )
 Digital Court-06,
 South West, Dwarka Court,
 New Delhi/20.09.2025

CC NI ACT : 13585/2021
SURENDER SINGH Vs. SHANKAR MUDGAL Page No. 23 of 23