( Pronounced on the 11th day of March, 2025)

Brief case of the prosecution: 2. The PCR call was attended by the PCR officials and the PCR van
reached the spot at 19:59:10 and the caller Suresh S/o Sh. Ram Murli
had informed the PCR officials that his daughter-in-law (bahu) Aarti,
who was married to his son Sandeep Sharma had hanged herself from
the fan on the ceiling of the room, with the help of a saree. He further
informed the police officials that the deceased was brought down prior to
him reaching there. There was no suicide note found and the PCR
officials found that there were no signs of any injury present on the body
of the deceased. 3. After registration of the DD No. 51B, Ex. PW1/D, the said call
was marked to ASI Yashpal, who reached the spot with Ct. Ankit. The
Inquiry Officer ASI Yashpal found that the dead body of the deceased
was found hanging from a ceiling fan of a room situated on the 1 st floor
of H. No. 325, Gali No. 4C, Phase-V, Shiv Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Delhi.
The body was brought down and was made to lie on the floor. The IO
had called the Crime Team on the spot, which had later inspected the
spot and the Crime Team Report, Mark-ZA was prepared by the Crime
Team Incharge SI Manish Kumar, wherein, the modus operadi was
recorded as "Alleged suicide by hanging" . The weapon/tool suspected to
be used was recorded as a "Saree" and the IO was advised to get the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 4. The IO ASI Yashpal then prepared the site plan, Ex. PW11/A and
he seized the ligature material i.e. the saree, Ex. PW8/A. The date of
marriage was found to be 18.02.2017 and since, the death had occurred
within 7 years of the marriage of the deceased, under suspicious
circumstances, the IO informed the senior police officials and the then
Executive Magistrate Sh. R. L. Meena. 5. On the next day i.e. 17.10.2018, IO ASI Yashpal and the other
police staff produced the parents of the deceased before the office of the
concerned SDM, for conducting the proceedings u/s 176 Cr.PC, 1973.
The concerned Executive Magistrate then recorded the statements of the
parents of the deceased, Ex. PW2/A and Ex. PW5/A, respectively. The
inquest papers including the request for postmortem, Ex. PW5/B were
prepared and the postmortem of deceased Bharti was conducted at GTB
hospital, vide PM Report, Ex. PW12/A. Upon the endorsement made by
the concerned Executive Magistrate on the statement of Sh. Bhole
Shankar (father of the deceased), Ex. PW2/A, the present case FIR was
registered u/s 304-B / 498-A / 34 IPC, 1860. 6. In the statement recorded before the Executive Magistrate, PW2
Bhole Shankar @ Bharan Lal Sharma had stated that the deceased Bharti
was his daughter and she was having four elder siblings and two siblings
were younger to her. He had married the deceased Bharti with accused
Sandeep Sharma on 18.02.2017. He had further stated that his daughter
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 7. It was further stated by the father of the deceased, PW2 Bhole
Shankar @ Bharan Lal Sharma that on 16.10.2018, at about 07:00 PM he
received a phone call from his son Arjun, who had informed him that his
daughter Bharti had hanged herself. Thereafter, he alongwith his wife
Kiran went to the matrimonial house of his daughter situated at H. No.
325, Gali No.4C, Shiv Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Delhi. He had further
deposed that around 6-7 months, after the marriage of his daughter
Bharti, the accused persons started harassing her on account of dowry
demands. The accused persons used to demand Rs. 50,000/- cash and
money for purchasing a vehicle. He had further deposed that on
09.10.2018, he had given Rs. 30,000/- cash to accused Sandeep Sharma.
He had further stated that he suspected the accused persons had killed his
daughter and wanted strict action against them, as per the law. 8. The Executive Magistrate went on to further record the statement
of the mother of the deceased, namely Kiran, Ex. PW5/A. Thereafter, the
said statements, Ex. PW2/A and Ex. PW5/A were handed over to IO ASI
Yashpal for taking further necessary action as per the law. Upon the
endorsement of the SHO PS Karawal Nagar, made upon the statement,
Ex. PW2/A, present case FIR, Ex. PW1/A was registered by the Duty
Officer HC Dev Raj Singh u/s 304-B / 498-A / 34 IPC, 1860. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 6/98 9. After the registration of the FIR on 17.10.2018, the investigation
was conducted by the IO SHO Inspector Ravi Kant and after completion
of the same the chargesheet was filed before the court of Ld. MM. After
compliance of section 207 / 208 Cr.PC, the case was committed by the
Court of Ld. MM before this court on 15.03.2019. Thereafter, the
charges were framed by my Ld. Predecessor on 08.05.2019, u/s
498-A/304-B/34 of Indian Penal Code , 1860 against the accused persons.
The accused persons pleaded not guilty and they had claimed trial. Prosecution Evidence: 10. To prove its case, the prosecution has examined Thirteen (13)
witnesses, including four Public Witnesses; two Forensic/Medical
Witnesses; and seven Formal Witnesses including the two Investigating
Officers and the Executive Magistrate. 11. Public Witnesses: (11.4.1) PW-10 is Arjun and he is the brother of the deceased. He
had deposed that he had four sisters including the deceased and two
brothers. His sister Bharti was married to accused Sandeep Sharma on
18.02.2017. He categorically deposed that he did not knew as to what
happened with his sister Bharti after her marriage, at the matrimonial
home. (11.4.2) PW-10 Arjun was declared hostile by the State and he was Digitally
 signed by

subjected to rigorous cross examination conducted by Ld. Addl. PP for ATUL
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Further, the mark is absent for a distance of 8 cm over back of
 neck. On right side of neck, the mark is 2.2 cm wide and
 touching mastoid process (bone behind the ear) Further going
 forward, the mark is 4 cm wide and 1.5 cm below angle of
 mandible and merges with the front midline mark. Internal examination:- (13.3.2) PW-8 Ct. Ankit Malik had further deposed that the Incharge
Crime Team SI Manish handed over the ligature material i.e. saree of red
colour having five knots, Ex. PW8/Article-1 to the IO ASI Yashpal, who
had then seized the same after putting it in a polythene, vide seizure Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: The IO interrogated them and prepared their interrogation reports. The
previous involvement of accused Suresh Sharma and Siya Devi were
checked from the record room, however, they were having no previous
involvement in any other case. After their interrogation, accused Suresh
Sharma and Siya Devi were allowed to leave by the IO. (13.3.4) PW-8 Ct. Ankit Malik had further deposed that on
25.10.2018, he joined the investigation with IO Inspector Ravi Kant and
he reached the house of the accused persons alongwith a notice prepared
by the IO, where accused Pradeep Sharma and Rajeev were found
present and he produced both of them before IO Inspector Ravi Kant.
The IO interrogated them and prepared their interrogation reports. After
their interrogation, accused Pradeep Sharma and Rajeev were allowed to
leave by the IO. He had correctly identified the accused persons and the
case property i.e. the saree, Ex. PW8/Article-1. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 26/98
 17.10.2018, he was posted as Duty Officer from 12:00 AM till 08:00 AM
and at about 07:00 AM, ASI Yashpal and Ct. Ankit returned back to the
PS after attending to PCR call which was registered vide DD No. 51B,
Ex. PW1/D and he recorded their arrival entry in the General Diary vide
GD No. 002A dated 17.10.2018, Ex. PW9/A.

(13.5.1) PW-5 is Sh. R. L. Meena and he is the then Executive
Magistrate, North East District. He had deposed that on 16.10.2018, at
about 05:00 PM, he was telephonically informed by ASI Yashpal that
one lady namely Bharti had committed suicide by hanging herself at H.
No. 325, Gali No. 4C, Phase-V, Karawal Nagar, Delhi and that the she
was taken to GTB Hospital, wherein, she was declared as brought dead.
He instructed the IO to bring the parents of the deceased to his office, as
and when they reach Delhi. (13.5.2) PW-5 Sh. R. L. Meena had further deposed that on
17.10.2018, at about 11:00 AM IO ASI Yashpal produced the parents of
the deceased at his office and he made inquiries from the father of the
deceased, namely Bhole Shankar and recorded his statement, Ex.
PW2/A. Thereafter, he recorded the statement of the mother of the
deceased, namely Kiran and same was exhibited as Ex. PW5/A. Since,
the parents of the deceased was suspecting the involvement of the
accused persons in the death of their daughter, he directed the IO to take
necessary action as per the law and made endorsements to the said effect
on their respective statements. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 27/98
 (13.5.3) PW-5 Sh. R. L. Meena had further deposed that on
17.10.2018, at about 02:00 PM he visited the Mortuary, GTB Hospital,
where IO ASI Yashpal and the family members of the deceased were
already present. The uncle and father of the deceased identified the dead
body vide identification statement, Ex. PW3/A and Ex. PW2/B,
respectively. He prepared the request for conducting the postmortem, Ex.
PW5/B and the inquest papers i.e. Form 25.35 (I) (B), Ex. PW5/C was
also prepared. (13.5.5) PW-5 Sh. R. L. Meena during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had deposed that the
statements of the parents of the deceased, Ex. PW2/A and Ex. PW5/A,
respectively, were both recorded by his assistant namely Mohit, under
his dictation and supervision. He also categorically deposed that the said
statements does not contain any note that the said statements were not
recorded by him in his own hand or that the same was recorded by his
assistant Mohit. He also admitted that the said statements do not bear the
signature or even initials of his assistant Mohit and the IO ASI Yashpal
had not recorded the statement of his assistant Mohit at that time or at
any later stage. (13.5.6) PW-5 Sh. R. L. Meena during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had deposed that
while the statements of the parents of the deceased were being recorded,
IO ASI Yashpal was present there. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 28/98
 (13.6.1) PW-11 is ASI Yashpal and he is the 1st IO of the present
case. He had deposed that on 16.10.2018, he was on emergency duty as
ASI and at about 07:02 PM DD No. 51-B, Ex. PW1/D was registered
regarding the death of one lady by hanging and the same was marked to
him. Thereafter, he alongwith Ct. Ankit reached the spot and found the
dead body of a female was lying on the floor of a room situated on the 1 st
floor. He then called the Crime Team to the spot and the Incharge Crime
Team SI Manish inspected the spot and the photographer Ct. Mohit took
the photographs from different angles. The SHO PS Karawal Nagar and
the Executive Magistrate Sh. R. N. Meena were informed telephonically
by him, since, the death of the deceased took place within 7 years of her
marriage. (13.6.2) PW-11 ASI Yashpal had further deposed that the Incharge
Crime Team SI Manish handed over the ligature material i.e. saree of red
colour having five knots, Ex. PW8/Article-1 to the IO ASI Yashpal, who
had then seized the same after putting it in a polythene, vide seizure
memo, Ex. PW11/B (earlier also exhibited as Ex. PW8/A). In the
meanwhile, SHO Inspector Ravi Kant reached the spot and at the
instructions of the SHO, he alongwith Ct. Ankit, removed the dead body
to GTB Hospital Mortuary and the dead body was got preserved. (13.6.3) PW-11 ASI Yashpal had further deposed that on 17.10.2018,
at the directions of the concerned Executive Magistrate, he produced the
parents of the deceased before him and their statements, Ex. PW2/A and
Ex. PW5/A, respectively, were recorded. Thereafter, he alongwith the
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: PW12/A and recorded the statements of the witnesses. He also collected
the Scene Of Crime Report prepared by the Crime Team, Mark-ZA and
the photographs of the deceased and the Scene of Crime, Mark-ZB
(colly) (18 photographs). CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 31/98
 interrogated accused Suresh Sharma, Siya Devi, Rajeev Sharma and
Pradeep in the PS, however, they were not arrested in the present case.
He prepared the chargesheet and filed the same before the concerned
Court. He correctly identified all the accused persons at the time of his
examination-in-chief conducted on 19.04.2024. (13.7.6) PW-13 Inspector Ravi Kant during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had deposed that on
16.10.2018, he had reached the spot at around 07:00 PM and had met the
accused persons there. He categorically deposed that he could not say
whether accused Sandeep Sharma was present at the spot, when
deceased Bharti had hanged herself. He further categorically deposed
that he had not recorded the statement of the parents of the deceased on
16.10.2018 and went on to voluntarily deposed that they were not in
position to give their statements on the said dates. (13.7.7) PW-13 Inspector Ravi Kant during his cross examination
conducted by Ld. Counsel for the accused persons had deposed that he
had not gone to the SDM office for getting the statement of the parents
of the deceased recorded and voluntarily deposed that he had deputed
ASI Yashpal for the said task. He further categorically deposed that he
made inquiries from the neighbours of the house of the deceased,
however, he did not record the statement of any such neighbour(s). Plea of the Accused Persons and Defense Evidence: 1973, in which they had pleaded their innocence. 15. The accused persons chose to lead Defense Evidence and in the
support of their case they have examined one (1) witness: 16. I have heard the arguments advanced by Sh. Kamal Akhter, Ld.
Additional PP for the State and Sh. Devender Singh and Sh. Gaurav
Kumar, Ld. Counsels for the accused persons. I have also minutely gone
through the evidence brought on record and the material aspects of the
case. Submissions made on behalf of the State: 17. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that in the
present case the prosecution has been able to discharge its burden that
the death of deceased Bharti was caused otherwise than under normal
circumstances and such death had occurred within 7 years of her
marriage with accused Sandeep Sharma. Furthermore, it has been proved
beyond reasonable doubt from the testimony of the prosecution
witnesses that soon before her death, deceased Bharti was subjected to
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 18. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
presumption enshrined u/s 113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, is a
presumption of law and once the prosecution was able to establish from
the facts of the present case, the essential ingredients of the offence
punishable u/s 304-B that the death took place within 7 years of marriage
and soon before her death the deceased was subjected to cruelty relating
to dowry demands was duly proved by the prosecution, therefore, a duty
was cast upon this court to raise a presumption that the accused persons
had caused the dowry death of Bharti. The testimony of the star
prosecution witnesses PW2 Bhole Shankar @ Bharan Lal Sharma (father
of the deceased) was fully corroborated by the testimony of PW6 Kiran
(mother of the deceased). 19. It has been argued by the Ld. Addl. PP for the State that the
prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that prior the deceased
Bharti hanging herself by tying a saree around her neck and by tying
other end of the saree from the ceiling fan of her room and she was
subjected to harassment and cruelty on the basis of dowry demands. The Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 20. It is further submitted by the Ld. Addl. PP for the state that the
identity of the accused persons was fully established in the present case
as they were duly identified by all the prosecution witnesses before the
Court. 21. In support of his contentions, the Ld. Addl. PP for the State had
relied upon the decisions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
" Appasaheb & Anr. Vs. State of Maharashtra " 2007 ( 1) JCC 147,
"Charan Singh @ Charanjit Singh Vs. The State of Uttarakhand " 2023 LiveLaw SC 341 and "Sunil Kundu & Anr. Vs. State of Jharkhand " Submissions made on behalf of the Accused Persons: 22. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
 ATUL
persons that the accused persons have been falsely implicated in the AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 37/98 11:10:06 +0530
 present case, after the parents of the deceased had leveled false and
concocted allegations against them, after the deceased who was suffering
from depression had committed suicide. 23. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that the brother of the deceased, PW10 Arjun had not supported
the case of the prosecution and he had turned hostile at the time of his
testimony. The said deposition of PW10 Arjun has brought forward the
falsity of the allegations leveled against the accused persons. It has
created reasonable doubts upon the veracity of the prosecution version
and the benefit of the said doubt must go to the accused persons. 24. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that there are inherent inconsistencies and incoherencies in the
inter-se testimonies of the star public witnesses examined by the
prosecution. As per the statement of the father of the deceased, recorded u/s 161 Cr.PC, he had stated that the husband, father-in-law and mother-
in-law of his daughter Bharti started harassing her after 6-7 months of
her marriage and they demanded Rs. 50,000/- from them. However,
when her father Bhole Shankar stepped into the witness box as PW2, he
had categorically deposed that it was only accused Sandeep who had
demanded the said amount for purchasing a motorcycle and the said
demand was raised after about 1 year of the marriage of his daughter
Bharti with accused Sandeep. 25. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 26. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that the father of the deceased, namely Bhole Shankar had stated
in his statement u/s 161 Cr.PC that he alongwith his wife Kiran had
given Rs. 30,000/- to accused Sandeep Sharma on 09.10.2018, however,
when he entered into the witness box, he had changed the version and
deposed that his wife had given Rs. 30,000/- to accused Sandeep
Sharma, one month prior to the death of his daughter. 27. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that PW2 Bhole Shankar was cross examined in detail by the
accused persons and during his cross examination conducted on
27.07.2019, he had categorically deposed that he could not tell from
where did his wife arranged the said money. 28. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 29. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that PW2 Bhole Shankar had leveled allegations that accused
Sandeep Sharma had demanded Rs. 50,000/- for purchasing a
motorcycle on 2-3 occasions, however, he could not get any specific
date, month or year of the said demands, after he was specifically asked
about the same during his cross examination conducted on 27.07.2019. 30. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that it is highly improbable that the family members of the
deceased, who were fighting for their survival and could barely make
enough to feed themselves, managed to arrange a hefty sum of Rs.
30,000/- and gave the same to the accused Sandeep Sharma. 31. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that PW2 Bhole Shankar had categorically deposed during his
cross examination that he had no knowledge, if his daughter Bharti was
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 32. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that the testimony of PW2 Bhole Shankar becomes highly
untrustworthy, in the background of the testimony of the mother of the
deceased, PW6 Kiran. It was categorically deposed by PW6 Kiran that
15 days prior to the death of her daughter, accused Sandeep had come to
her house and demanded Rs. 50,000/- from her for purchasing a
motorcycle. One week thereafter, i.e. around one week prior to the death
of her daughter, she gave the amount of Rs. 30,000/- in cash to accused
Sandeep at her home, in the presence of her daughter Bharti. When she
was cross examined on 21.01.2020, she had categorically deposed that
the amount of Rs. 30,000/- was given to the accused, about 15 days prior
to the death of her daughter and the said money was given by her to
accused Sandeep, without informing her husband and her sons. This
testimony of hers is running counter to the testimony given by her
husband, PW2 Bhole Shankar. 33. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that it had come in the testimony of PW6 Kiran that prior to her
death, her daughter used to regularly talk to her over a telephone and that
around 2-3 days prior to her death, PW6 Kiran spoke with Bharti. The
said testimony further weakens the case of the prosecution, since, it is
highly unbelievable that a person who is on a verge of suicide, would not
complain about the harassment meted out to her, to her mother. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 34. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that it had come in the cross examination of PW6 Kiran,
conducted on 21.01.2020 that she had borrowed Rs. 20,000/- from her
relative Chander Pal and the remaining Rs. 10,000/- was from their
savings. However, the IO never made inquiries from the said Chander
Pal and he was not made a prosecution witness. Even her deposition that
Rs. 10,000/- were sourced from their savings, does not add up in the
light of categorical admissions made by her husband PW2 Bhole
Shankar that their family could not save anything at all at that time. 35. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that the father-in-law, mother-in-law and brother-in-laws of the
deceased were falsely implicated in the present case and neither PW2
Bhole Shankar nor PW6 Kiran could give any specific role played by the
remaining accused persons, regarding the dowry demands and
harassment meted out by them to the deceased prior to her death. The
categorical admissions made by both PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6
Kiran during their respective depositions that the accused persons did not
raise any dowry demands before the marriage. Furthermore, they had
also deposed that they had not given any cash to the accused persons in
the said marriage. Their testimonies are made further less trustworthy in
light of the testimony of their son, PW10 Arjun that the expenses of the
tent and food served in the marriage were borne by accused Suresh
Sharma and not by the family members of the deceased. 36. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused ATUL
 AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 11:10:38 +0530 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 42/98
 persons that the mother of the deceased, namely PW6 Kiran had
categorically admitted in her cross examination that the relations of her
daughter Bharti with her two daughter-in-laws were sour and they never
used to allow Bharti to stay at her parental home. The said testimony is
in line with the defense of the accused persons that the deceased was
suffering mentally by the ill treatment received by her from her own
sister-in-laws (bhabhis). 37. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that PW6 Kiran had also admitted during her cross examination
that she had never given the list of dowry articles and their bank
statements to the IO during the investigation. Neither could she give any
corroboration regarding the source of the money, which she allegedly
paid to accused Sandeep Sharma. Therefore, her entire testimony is
nothing but bald allegations, which is not supported by the testimony of
any other witness of sterling quality or by any documentary evidence. 38. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that it had categorically come in the testimony of the brother of
the deceased, PW10 Arjun that between the period of the marriage and
death of his sister, she did not stay at her parental home for 20 days in
total, substantiates the defense of the accused persons that prior to her
death, deceased Bharti was receiving hostile treatment at her parental
home. He had further deposed that he used to regularly visit his sister at
her matrimonial home and yet he never saw any quarrel or any incident
of his sister being beaten up by the accused persons. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 39. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that both PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran had deposed that
on 16.10.2018, accused Sandeep had telephonically informed their son
Arjun about their daughter committing suicide. PW6 Kiran had
categorically deposed that at about 07:00 PM, when the said call was
made, her son Arjun was in his office and he directly reached the house
of accused persons and from there he came to his home and inform them
about the incident. Thereafter, they went to the house of the accused
persons. However, when PW10 Arjun stepped into the witness box, he
had categorically deposed that when he received the said call at 07:00
PM, he was present at his house only and that he informed his parents
about the same. Therefore, further doubt is created upon the character of
the PW6 Kiran as a witness and her testimony must be disregarded in
toto. 40. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that the testimony of the defense witness, DW-1 Guddi is highly
trustworthy and she had categorically deposed that the bhabhis of the
deceased used to quarrel with the deceased, prior to her death and they
never used to allow Bharti to stay at her parental home. Furthermore,
Bharti had suffered a miscarriage and she had herself informed DW1
about the same and she was under the depression due to the loss of her
child in the womb. The said defense of the accused persons was not
denied by her parents and brother during their cross examination, in spite
of specific suggestions being put to them. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 41. It is submitted by the Ld. Defense Counsels for the accused
persons that in the present case, the prosecution could not prove any
demand of dowry nor there being any cruelty or torture meted out to the
deceased soon before her death, relating to the said dowry demands.
There is not even a single direct evidence of the said cruelty or
harassment and there is no circumstantial evidence either. There were no
marks of injury, except for the ligature mark, found on the body of the
deceased, therefore, even the physical cruelty being meted out to the
deceased is ruled out. 42. The Ld. Defense Counsels had relied upon the decisions of the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in "Shoor Singh & Anr. Vs. State of
Uttarakhand", Neutral Citation: 2024 INSC 713, "Chabi Karmarkar &
Ors. Vs. State of West Bengal" Neutral Citation: 2024 INSC 665 and the
decision of Hon'ble High Court of Allahabad in " Santoo @ Santosh
Kumar Vs. State of UP ", 2016 III AD (CRI.) (ALL) 525. Relevant Law & Case Laws: 43. Before coming to the discussion of the evidence adduced by the
prosecution on merits, this court deems it necessary to discuss the law
and the judgments passed by the superior courts in this regard. 44. In order to succeed in charge under Section 498A of the Indian
 ATUL
Penal Code, 1860 the prosecution is required to prove that the accused AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 45/98 11:11:04 +0530
 had subjected the deceased to cruelty, as defined in the explanation to the
section. For this purpose, the provision of Sec. 498A IPC, 1860 is
reproduce as under:- 45. It is clear from a bare reading of the said provision in conjunction
with the 'Explanation' appended to the said section, that it is not every
cruelty which is punishable under Section 498A of the Indian Penal
Code, 1860. The cruelty, so as to attract penal provisions, contained in
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 46. It is easily believed that everyone is presumed to intend the natural
consequences of his act and such a presumption must necessarily be
drawn even if there is no intention to cause any injury or harm to the
woman. Whether the conduct in question is likely to drive the woman to
cause injury to her life, limb or health, will depend upon a number of
factors such as social and economic status of the parties, the level of
awareness of the aggrieved woman, her temperament, state of her health,
physical as well as mental and how she is likely to perceive such a
behavior. If a woman is harassed with a view to coerce her or any of her
relatives to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable
security, it will also constitute cruelty, as defined in the explanation to Section 498A of Indian Penal Code. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 47. The expression "Cruelty" takes in its ambit mental cruelty as well
as physical torture of the woman. If the conduct of the accused with a
woman is likely to cause a reasonable apprehension in her mind that her
living with the husband will be harmful and injurious to her life and
safety, such a conduct would attract criminal liability, envisaged in Section 498A of IPC, 1860. 48. If the woman has been harassed on account of her failure or the
failure of her relatives to meet an unlawful demand for property or
valuable security, that also constitutes cruelty, within the meaning of Section 498A of IPC. The expression "harassment" has not been defined
in Section 498A of IPC, but its dictionary meaning is 'to subject
someone to continuous vexatious attacks, questions, demands or other
unpleasantness, etc'. However, it is not harassment of every nature
which is punishable under Section 498A of IPC. In order to attract
criminal liability, there should be torture physical or mental, by positive
acts. Such acts should be aimed at persuading or compelling the woman
or her relatives to meet an unlawful demand of any property or valuable
security or it should be actuated by the failure of the woman or her
relative to meet such a demand 49. It is also pertinent to reproduce the provision u/s 304B IPC, as
under:- 50. It is clear from the said provision that in order to establish a charge
under Section 304B of Indian Penal Code, which deals with what is
described as "dowry death", the prosecution must necessarily prove the
following ingredients: 51. The term "Dowry" has not been defined in Section 304B of IPC,
but, since this expression has been defined in Section 2 of Dowry
Prohibition Act, 1961 it is required to be given the same meaning for the
purpose of under Section 304B IPC as held by Hon'ble Supreme Court
in " Satvir Singh & Ors. v. State of Punjab and Anr. " 2001 (4) Crimes 45
(SC). Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act defines dowry as under: means any property or valuable security given or
 agreed to be given either directly or indirectly (a) by
 one party to a marriage to the other party to the
 marriage, or (b) by the parent of either party to a
 marriage or by any other person, to either party to
 the marriage or to any other person, at or before 3 or
 any time after the marriage 4in connection with the
 marriage of the said parties, but does not include
 dower or mahr in the case or persons to whom the
 Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) applies...." 52. Dowry would include property or valuable security which is
actually given or which is agreed to be given, in relation to the marriage
of a person in question. The property or valuable security may be given
or may be agreed to be given before marriage or at the time of marriage
or at any time after the marriage, so long as it is connected with the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 53. Even demands of articles such as T.V., fridge, jewelry, clothes,
furniture, etc. which usually are given or expected in marriages in our
country, would, considering the objective sought to be achieved by
incorporating Section 304B in IPC , 1860 and enacting Dowry
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 54. In the case of " Pawan Kumar & Ors. v. State of Haryana ", AIR
1998 SCC 958, the Apex Court has specifically held that demand of T.V.,
Fridge, etc. though not agreed to be given or promised or even demanded
prior to or at the time of marriage, to be a demand for dowry for the
purpose of Section 304B of Indian Penal Code. If cash or some property,
etc. is demanded by the boy or his family members, after marriage,
saying that they were expecting such cash, property, etc. to be given in
marriage, and the girl, or her parents or any other person related or
connected to her promise to fulfill such a demand, that also may fall
within the purview of dowry, as the promise though made after marriage,
would nevertheless be referable to the marriage, having been made with
a view to preserve the marriage. In case, if the demand is made after
marriage and it is in respect of a property or valuable security, which was
not demanded, was not expected to be given and also was not in
contemplation at any time up to solemnization of marriage, demand of
such cash, property or valuable security, etc. cannot be said to be in
connection with the marriage and, therefore, would not constitute
demand of dowry. 55. In the case of " Satbir Singh Vs. State of Punjab ", 200 14 Crimes 45
(SC) while dealing with this issue, the Hon'ble Supreme Court, inter
alia, observed as under: This means that giving or agreeing to give any
 property or valuable security on any of the above
 three stages should have been in connection with
 the marriage of the parties. There can be many other
 instances for payment of money or giving property
 as between the spouses. For example, some
 customary payments in connection with birth of a
 child or other ceremonies are prevalent in different
 societies. Such payments are not enveloped within
 the ambit of "dowry". Hence the dowry mentioned
 in Section 304B should be any property or valuable
 security given or agreed to be given in connection
 with the marriage......" 56. In the case of " Appasaheb and Anr. v. State of Maharashtra " , AIR
2007 SC 763, the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under: 57. The Indian Penal Code , 1860, and the Dowry Prohibition Act,
1961 , are both remedial and penal statutes. As such, Courts are expected
to construe the provisions in a way that the purpose is fulfilled through
and within the limits of language employed in the statute. If a case is
established then the Courts are to be stringent in dealing with the
culprits. The Courts while taking a stringent view and despite the
obligation of the legislative enactment a success, have also to keep in
mind that the charge should be made out. 58. The main ingredients to be proved for establishing a case under Section 304B of Indian Penal Code, 1860, are (i) unnatural death of a
woman within seven years of her marriage and (ii) she being subjected to
cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband, in
connection with any demand of dowry. 59. The words "it is shown" occurring in Section 304B IPC, 1860, are
of significance for the reason that the initial burden of proving the
circumstances envisaged by Section 304B IPC, 1860, do exist on the
prosecution. This being shown or established, the question of
presumption under Section 113B of the Evidence Act would arise. In
other words, to draw a presumption under section 113B of the Evidence
Act, the necessary ingredient that need to be shown is that soon before
the death of the girl, she was subjected to cruelty or harassment in
connection with the demands of dowry, has to be proved. Only when
these facts are proved then by virtue of the deeming provision of section
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 55/98 AHLAWAT Date: 60. The Courts are required to scrutinize the evidence carefully
because cases are not rare in which occasionally there is a demand and
then the atmosphere becomes calm and quiet and then again there is
demand. Where a wife dies in the house of her husband within a short
span of seven years of her marriage, it is of considerable difficulty to
assess the precise circumstances in which the incident occurred because
ordinarily independent witnesses are not available as the torture and
harassment is confined to the four walls of the house. The Courts are,
however, required to be vigilant to scrutinize the evidence regarding the
harassment and torture carefully if the witnesses are the relatives of the
deceased and relations between them and her in laws are strained for any
reason whatever it might be. 61. Urge for living is a natural phenomenon in mankind. A person
would not embrace death unless there is some psychological problem or
mental agony or such circumstances that the person committing suicide
may think that life he or she is living is more miserable than the pangs
and agony of death. The power of tolerance would vary from person to
person. Some persons try to make the life easy by tolerance while others
even on petty points bring an end to their life. Reliance is placed upon
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 62. The importance of Proximity Test is both for the proof of an
offence of 'dowry death' as well as for raising a presumption under Section 113B of the Evidence Act. The expression "soon before her
death" used in the substantive section 304B IPC and Section 113B Evidence Act is impregnated with the idea of proximity test. No definite
period has been indicated with respect to the expression " soon before" 63. Further more, in another case reported as " Mousam Singha Roy &
Ors. v. State of West Bengal " , 2003 (3) JCC 1358 , it was observed by
Hon'ble Supreme Court as under: 64. Further more, in another case reported as " Sher Singh @ Partapa
v. State Of Haryana ," 2015 (3) SCC 724, it was observed by Hon'ble
Supreme Court as under: 10. It is already empirically evident that the
 prosecution, ubiquitously and in dereliction of duty,
 in the case of an abnormal death if a young bride
 confines its charges to Section 304B because the
 obligation to provide proof becomes least
 burdensome for it; this is the significance that
 attaches to a deeming provision. But, in any death
 other than in normal circumstances, we see no
 ATUL
 justification for not citing either Section 302 or AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 11:13:06 +0530 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 60/98
 Section 306, as the circumstances of the case call
 for. Otherwise, the death would logically fall in the
 category of an accidental one. It is not sufficient to
 include only Section 498A as the punishment is
 relatively light. Homicidal death is chargeable and
 punishable under Sections 302 and 304B if
 circumstances prevail triggering these provisions. This Court has repeatedly reiterated this position,
 including in State of Punjab v. Iqbal Singh , 1991 (3)
 SCC 1 and quite recently in Jasvinder Saini v. State
 (Govt. of NCT of Delhi ) 2013 (7) SCC 256." 65. The Court analyzed the provision of Sec. 304B IPC considering it
as a deeming provision and observed that the word ' shown' in Sec. 304B IPC would connote 'prove'. It further observed as under:- 66. In the background of the above, I shall now discuss the evidence
brought on record in the present case. It is trite law that the accused
persons can be convicted on the basis of credible evidence brought on
record and the appreciation of the said evidence must be done in correct
and true perspective manner and in the natural course of events, what
would have been occurred. Appreciation of evidence beyond reasonable
doubt does not mean that it should be assessed beyond any iota of doubt.
Beyond Reasonable Doubt means that the prosecution is required to
place evidence at a higher degree of preponderance of probabilities
compared to what is degree of preponderance of probability in civil
cases. The theory of Beyond Reasonable Doubt means expecting higher
degree of preponderance of probabilities and the natural conduct of
human beings, as held by the Hon'ble High Court of Karnataka in " State
of Karnataka Vs Venkatesh @ Venkappa & Anr " , Criminal Appeal No.
100492 of 2021, decided on 18.12.2023. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 62/98 67. Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act defines "evidence". The
evidence can be broadly divided into oral and documentary. "Evidence"
under the Act can be said to include the means, factor or material,
lending a degree of probability through a logical inference to the
existence of a fact. It is an adjective law highlighting and aiding the
substantive law. Thus, it is neither wholly procedural nor substantive,
though trappings of both could be felt. 68. The definition of the word "proved" though gives an impression of
a mere interpretation, in effect, is the heart and soul of the entire Act.
This clause, consciously speaks of proving a fact by considering the
"matters before it". The importance is attached to the degree of
probability in proving a fact through the consideration of the matters
before the court. What is required for a court to decipher is the existence
of a fact and its proof by a degree of probability, through a logical
inference. 69. Matters are necessary, concomitant material factors to prove a fact.
All "evidence" would be "matters" but not vice versa. In other words,
matters could be termed as a genus of which evidence would be a
species. Matters also adds strength to the evidence giving adequate
ammunition in the Court's sojourn in deciphering the truth. Thus, the
definition of "matters" is exhaustive, and therefore, much wider than that
of "evidence". However, there is a caveat, as the court is not supposed to
consider a matter which acquires the form of an evidence when it is
barred in law. Matters are required for a court to believe in the existence ATUL
 AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 63/98 11:13:29 +0530
 of a fact. 70. Matters, do give more discretion and flexibility to the court in
deciding the existence of a fact. They also include all the classification of
evidence such as circumstantial evidence, corroborative evidence,
derivative evidence, direct evidence, documentary evidence, hearsay
evidence, indirect evidence, oral evidence, original evidence,
presumptive evidence, primary evidence, real evidence, secondary
evidence, substantive evidence, testimonial evidence, etc. 71. In addition, they supplement the evidence in proving the existence
of a fact by enhancing the degree of probability. As an exhaustive
interpretation has to be given to the word "matter", and for that purpose,
the definition of the expression of the words "means and includes",
meant to be applied for evidence, has to be imported to that of a "matter"
as well. Thus, a matter might include such of those which do not fall
within the definition of Section 3 , in the absence of any express bar. 72. What is important for the court is the conclusion on the basis of
existence of a fact by analyzing the matters before it on the degree of
probability. The entire enactment is meant to facilitate the court to come
to an appropriate conclusion in proving a fact. There are two methods by
which the court is expected to come to such a decision. The court can
come to a conclusion on the existence of a fact by merely considering the
matters before it, in forming an opinion that it does exist. This belief of
the court is based upon the assessment of the matters before it. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 73. The word "prudent" has not been defined under the Act. When the
court wants to consider the second part of the definition clause instead of
believing the existence of a fact by itself, it is expected to take the role of
a prudent man. Such a prudent man has to be understood from the point
of view of a common man. Therefore, a judge has to transform into a
prudent man and assess the existence of a fact after considering the
matters through that lens instead of a judge. It is only after undertaking
the said exercise can he resume his role as a judge to proceed further in
the case. 74. The aforesaid provision also indicates that the court is concerned
with the existence of a fact both in issue and relevant, as against a whole
testimony. Thus, the concentration is on the proof of a fact for which a
witness is required. Therefore, a court can appreciate and accept the
testimony of a witness on a particular issue while rejecting it on others
since it focuses on an issue of fact to be proved. However, the evidence
of a witness as whole is a matter for the court to decide on the
probability of proving a fact which is inclusive of the credibility of the
witness. Whether an issue is concluded or not is also a court's domain. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 65/98 75. While appreciating the evidence as aforesaid along with the matters
attached to it, evidence can be divided into three categories broadly
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) wholly unreliable and (iii) neither wholly
reliable nor wholly unreliable. If evidence, along with matters
surrounding it, makes the court believe it is wholly reliable qua an issue,
it can decide its existence on a degree of probability. Similar is the case
where evidence is not believable. When evidence produced is neither
wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable, it might require corroboration, and
in such a case, court can also take note of the contradictions available in
other matters. The aforesaid principle of law has been enunciated in the
authority of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " Vadivelu Thevar v.
State of Madras ", 1957 SCR 981 wherein it is held as under: In the first category of proof, the court should have
 no difficulty in coming to its conclusion either way -- it may convict or may acquit on the testimony of
 a single witness, if it is found to be above reproach
 or suspicion of interestedness, incompetence or
 subornation. In the second category, the court,
 equally has no difficulty in coming to its
 conclusion. It is in the third category of cases, that
 the court has to be circumspect and has to look for ATUL
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 76. In the present case, the accused persons are facing the charges of
the offences punishable u/s 498A / 304-B / 34 IPC, 1860, for having
committed the dowry death of the deceased Bharti and for committing
cruelty upon her soon before her death, on the account of dowry
demands. 77. In the present case, the date of marriage between the deceased and
her husband accused Sandeep Sharma is not disputed by the accused
persons or that deceased Bharti was not married to accused Sandeep
Sharma as per Hindu Rites and Ceremonies on 18.02.2017. Furthermore,
it is also not disputed that the deceased Bharti expired on 16.10.2018, as
proved by the prosecution through the MLC, Ex. PW4/A and
postmortem report Ex. PW12/A. Therefore, it is established beyond
reasonable doubt that the death of the deceased Bharti took place within
7 years of her marriage. 78. So as to attract the presumption of law enshrined under section
113-B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, from the statements of the
parents of the deceased namely PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran,
recorded before the concerned Executive Magistrate were not enough ATUL
 AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 70/98 11:14:12 +0530
 and the prosecution had to discharge the initial burden of proof after
establishing the essential ingredients mentioned in Section 113-B of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which the prosecution had sought to
discharge through the testimonies of PW2, Bhole Shankar and PW6
Kiran. 79. The death of the deceased Bharti was duly proved by the
prosecution through the MLC Ex. PW4/A, wherein, she was declared
brought dead at 09:38 PM on 16.10.2018, after she was brought to the
main casualty, GTB Hospital in unconscious and unresponsive state with
alleged history of hanging. Upon local examination, the B.P. and pulse
were not recordable, heart sound was not present, no respiratory sounds
were present and both the bilateral pupils were fixed and dilated. 80. The postmortem report no. 1901/18, Ex. PW12/A is also
categorical in nature and as per the said report, upon the neck of the dead
body, the concerned doctor found bruising of bilateral carotid sheath
with extravasation of blood present in neck muscles and adjacent soft
tissues of neck, the epiglottis was found to be congested and other bony
structures of the neck were found to be intact. As per the opinion of the
concerned doctor, the cause of death was "Asphyxia as as result of ante-
mortem hanging". 81. It is also not disputed in the present case that the deceased had
hanged herself by tying an end of the saree, Ex. PW8/Article-1 around
her neck and the other end of the saree around the ceiling fan of the room ATUL
 AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 71/98 11:14:20 +0530
 situated on the 1st floor of the matrimonial house of the deceased. It is
not the case of the prosecution that the deceased was killed by the
accused persons or that she was hanged after she had been already killed.
There are no allegations of the offence punishable u/s 302 IPC, 1860
against the accused persons. The fact that the deceased committed
suicide by hanging, has not been disputed by the accused persons.
Therefore, the prosecution has been able to fully establish that the
deceased Bharti had died otherwise then in normal circumstances, since
committing suicide is not the end of the human life under normal
circumstances. Furthermore, since the date of marriage is also not
disputed by the accused persons, therefore, the death of the deceased
Bharti, which has been established through the PM report Ex. PW12/A
and MLC, Ex. PW4/A took place on 16.10.2018 at 09:38 PM and it is
established beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased died within 7
years of her marriage and her death had occurred otherwise than under
normal circumstances. Therefore, the only thing that needs to be now
appreciated from the evidence brought on record, is that whether the
prosecution is able to establish that soon before her death, deceased
Bharti was subjected to cruelty and harassment by her husband or any
relative of her husband, for or in connection with any demands of
dowry? 82. The prosecution was relying heavily on the testimony of star
witnesses i.e. PW2 Bhole Shankar (father of the deceased), PW6 Kiran
(mother of the deceased) and PW10 Arjun (brother of the deceased), to
establish that soon before her death, the deceased Bharti was subjected to ATUL Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: AHLAWAT 2025.03.11 11:14:28 +0530 CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 72/98
 cruelty and harassment in connection with dowry demands. However,
out of the said witnesses belonging to the family of the deceased, her
brother PW10 Arjun had completely turned hostile, at the time of his
deposition before this Court and he had not supported the case of the
prosecution. 83. The present case FIR was registered upon the statement of the
father of the deceased Bhole Shankar recorded before the Executive
Magistrate on 17.10.2018. The said statement, Ex. PW2/A became the
basis of the prosecution's case and in the said statement the father of the
deceased had leveled general and cryptic allegations against the accused
Sandeep Sharma (husband of the deceased), Suresh Sharma (father-in-
law of the deceased) and Siya Devi (mother-in-law of the deceased), that
they used to quarrel with his daughter before her death. He had further
alleged that her husband accused Sandeep Sharma used to give beatings
to his daughter, after consuming alcohol. 84. In the statement, Ex. PW2/A, the father of the deceased had
further leveled the allegations of dowry demands being raised after
around 6-7 months of the marriage of his daughter Bharti. He had also
alleged that there was a demand of Rs. 50,000/- for buying a vehicle and
he alongwith his wife Kiran had given Rs. 30,000/- to accused Sandeep
Sharma on 09.10.2018. Moreover, he had further leveled general
allegations that all the accused persons had killed his daughter. 85. Similarly, the mother of the deceased, namely Kiran also gave her Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 86. As per the case of the prosecution, the said statements, Ex. PW2/A
and Ex. PW5/A were recorded by Sh. R. L. Meena, the then Executive
Magistrate, North East District on 17.10.2018, after the parents of the
deceased were produced before the SDM office by the IO ASI Yashpal.
The veracity of the said statements took a hit after the Executive
Magistrate Sh. R. L. Meena entered into the witness box as PW5. During
his cross examination, conducted on 27.07.2019, he had categorically
deposed that "The statements Ex. PW2/A and Ex. PW5/A were recorded
by my Assistant namely Mohit under my dictation and supervision. Said
statements were not recorded in the sequence of facts as were told by the
parents of the deceased and while recording the same, same were made
to appear sequencewise for the sake of better understanding." He had
further stated that the said statements were silent on the fact that they
were recorded by the assistant of the Executive Magistrate and that the
said statement did not bear the signatures or initials of the said assistant.
He also went on to depose that even the IO ASI Yashpal did not record
statement of said assistant of his, on that day or at any other subsequent
date. 87. He had further categorically deposed that "ASI Yashpal (1st IO of
the case) (emphasis supplied is mine) was present when said two
statements were recorded." Therefore, as per the categorical testimony of Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 88. There have been material improvements and contradictions in the
testimony of both PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran from their earlier
statements made before the Executive Magistrate and the IO. While it
was the case of the prosecution that the parents of the deceased had
given Rs. 30,000/- to the accused Sandeep Sharma on 09.10.2018, after a
demand of Rs. 50,000/- was being raised for purchase a vehicle.
However, when PW2 Bhole Sharma entered into the witness box, he had
changed his stand and had deposed that about one month prior to the
death of his daughter (who died on 16.10.2018), his wife had given Rs.
30,000/- to accused Sandeep Sharma. During his cross examination,
PW2 Bhole Shankar had categorically deposed that his wife gave Rs.
30,000/- to accused Sandeep Sharma, however, he could not tell from
where did she arrange the said amount. He had further deposed that
accused Sandeep had demanded Rs. 50,000/- for purchasing a
motorcycle, from them on 2-3 occasions, however, he could not tell the
exact date, month or year of the said demands. Thereafter, he had yet
again changed his stand by deposing that the said demands were raised
from his wife Kiran and it was about 2-3 months prior to the death of his Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 89. PW2 Bhole Shankar went on to further categorically depose that
he could not tell the exact date, month or year, when the sum of Rs.
30,000/- was given by his wife to accused Sandeep Sharma. He further
went on to categorically depose that the said amount was not paid in his
presence and that his daughter Bharti and wife later informed him about
the same. 90. The testimony of PW2 Bhole Shankar was contradicted in
essential particulars regarding the dowry demand of Rs. 50,000/- and the
amount of Rs. 30,000/- being paid by them, in the testimony of PW6
Kiran. PW6 Kiran went on to depose that 15 days prior to the death of
her daughter, accused Sandeep came to their house and demanded Rs.
50,000/- from her, for purchasing a motorcycle. She further deposed that
one week thereafter, she gave Rs. 30,000/- in cash to accused Sandeep at
her home, in the presence of her daughter Bharti. However, during her
cross examination, she had deposed that she had borrowed Rs. 20,000/-
from one Chander Pal, who was their relative and remaining Rs. 10,000/-
were paid from their savings. She further categorically deposed that the
said money was given by her to accused Sandeep, without informing her
husband and sons. Therefore, the contradiction in the testimonies of
PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran in this regard and the inherent
improvements and contradictions from their previously recorded
statements, has further cast serious doubts about their credibility as
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 91. The testimonies of PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran were
further left in dire straits by the deposition of their son, PW10 Arjun,
who had categorically deposed before this Court that he had never told
the IO that after 6-7 months of the marriage of his sister, accused started
demanding dowry from his sister or that they demanded Rs. 50,000/- for
purchasing a vehicle (gadi) or that thereafter, in consultation with his
parents, they arranged Rs. 30,000/- and on 09.10.2018 gave the same to
accused Sandeep. He voluntarily went on to depose that he had no
knowledge of the said facts. 92. The testimonies of PW2 Bhole Shankar, PW6 Kiran and PW10
Arjun with respect to the financial conditions of their family, also did not
support the case of the prosecution. They had all deposed of their family
members were having meager earnings and were not having any savings
of a worthwhile sum. Furthermore, the testimony of PW2 Bhole Shankar
that he had no knowledge of the source of the funds arranged by his wife
Kiran and the testimony of PW6 Kiran, that she had borrowed Rs.
20,000/- from their relative Chander Pal, furthermore, the said Chander
Pal not being examined before this Court to substantiate the testimony of
PW6 Kiran, did not help the prosecution's case. 93. The material contradictions in the inter-se testimonies of material
prosecution witnesses, wherein, PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran had
deposed that they had arranged for Halwai and Tent etc., and the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 94. It has also categorically come in the testimony of all the star
prosecution witnesses, namely PW2 Bhole Shankar, PW6 Kiran and
PW10 Arjun that there was no demand of dowry raised prior to or at the
time of marriage and that no cash was paid by them to the accused
persons at the time of the said marriage, does not help the prosecution
case as well. 95. In yet another material improvement from her previous statements,
PW6 Kiran had deposed that about one year after the marriage of her
daughter Bharti, her daughter had called her and informed that accused
Sandeep Sharma had given beatings to her after consuming liquor. On
the same day, she had sent her son Shiv Om to the matrimonial house of
the deceased and she was brought back to her parental home. Thereafter,
the deceased had shown the red and blue marks on her body, received Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 96. The prosecution's case was dealt a further knock-out blow by the
testimony of PW10 Arjun, wherein, he had had categorically deposed
that he had no knowledge, whether there were any demands of dowry
raised by the accused persons. He had further categorically deposed that
he had knowledge that his sister was given beatings between the period
of her marriage and her death, however, the source of said knowledge
was what was being told to him by his parents. Therefore, even this part
of his testimony became hearsay in nature. 97. PW10 Arjun had further deposed that he was visiting the
matrimonial house of his sister on regular occasions and he had never
seen any quarrel or any incident of his sister being given beatings by the
accused persons and the deceased also never disclosed about any such
incident to him, prior to her death. He further categorically admitted the
suggestion that his sister was kept properly by the accused persons and
she was living there happily. Thus, his testimony is more in line with the
defense of the accused persons and completely opposite to the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 98. It has also come in the testimony of PW10 Arjun that he had sent a
Whatsapp message, Ex. PW10/DX, to one Kuldeep, who is the jija of
accused Sandeep Sharma. The printout of the said whatsapp chat was
shown to him at the time of his cross examination and after he had
admitted the same, the same was brought on record. In the said message,
PW10 Arjun had categorically stated that he was aware that the accused
persons could not do any such thing to his sister and that his family
members were pumped by his chacha and that even he was helpless in
this regard. 99. The testimony of PW10 Arjun, when appreciated in the light of the
cross examination of PW2 Bhole Shankar conducted on 27.07.2019,
where PW2 Bhole Shankar had categorically deposed that "I have no
knowledge if my son Arjun visits Mandoli Jail to meet accused Sandeep.
It is correct that Arjun still on talking terms with family members of
accused Sandeep" , had further raised doubts upon the entire prosecution
version, since, the act and conduct of the brother of the deceased is
making the allegations leveled against the accused persons highly
unbelievable. 100. All the three family members of the deceased, namely PW2 Bhole
Shankar, PW6 Kiran and PW10 Arjun were given specific suggestions at
the time of their respective cross examination conducted by the accused
persons that the deceased Bharti committed suicide due to being in

CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 80/98
 ATUL
 AHLAWAT Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT Date: 2025.03.11 11:15:31 +0530 trauma, after she had suffered a miscarriage or that the accused persons
had no say in the said suicide. None of them denied the said suggestion,
which is the main defense raised by the accused persons. The said
defense was further substantiated by the testimony of DW1 Guddi Devi,
who was the mediator of the said marriage that she was informed by the
deceased herself that the deceased Bharti had suffered a miscarriage. 101. The second line of defense taken by the accused persons was that
the deceased was not having cordial relations with her bhabhis (sister-in-
laws), who used to not like her coming to her parental house and this had
also contributed to the stress and trauma leading up to her suicide. The
said question was put to the mother of the deceased, PW6 Kiran at the
time of her cross examination conducted on 21.01.2010, wherein, she
had categorically deposed that she had two daughter-in-laws, were not in
good terms with his daughter Bharti and whenever her daughter Bharti
intended to stay with them, her daughter-in-laws used to ask her to return
back to her matrimonial house and for that reason the deceased could not
stay with them. This line of defense was further substantiated by DW1
Guddi Devi, wherein, she had categorically deposed that the bhabhi of
the deceased used to quarrel with the deceased, whenever, the deceased
used to go to her parental house. The deceased had a miscarriage and she
was being troubled by her bhabhi and other family members and the
same was the reason for her committing suicide. She had further denied
the suggestion being put to her by Ld. Substitute Addl. PP for the State
that she had never seen the bhabhi of deceased Bharti fighting with the
deceased in her presence. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 102. The inherent inconsistencies and contradictions in the testimonies
of the public witnesses, is further accentuated with the lapses in the
investigation conducted in the present case and further lapses on the part
of the prosecution. 103. The IO, in his own wisdom, chose not to make the concerned
official who had recorded the 100 number call as a prosecution witness.
Furthermore, the PCR call Form-I, could not be proved, since the
relevant witness from the PCR HQ was never made a prosecution
witness, to prove the said PCR call Form-I. The said PCR call Form was
marked after it was merely deposed by the IO PW13 Inspector Ravi
Kant, that during the investigation he had collected the said form. 104. For the reasons best known to the IO, the Incharge of Crime Team
namely SI Manish, the finger print expert HC Pramod Kumar and the
Crime Team Photographer, Ct. Mohit Kumar were never made
prosecution witnesses and the IO never recorded their statements u/s 161 Cr.PC. The Crime Scene Report was never proved and it was merely
marked as Mark-ZA during the testimony of IO PW-13 Inspector Ravi
Kant. 105. The photographs taken by the Crime Team expert photographer
were merely filed alongwith the chargesheet, without the same being
proved as per the law, since the Crime Team photographer Ct. Mohit
Kumar was never examined by the prosecution and the negatives of the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 106. As far as the allegations against accused persons are concerned,
they are cryptic and vague in nature and the prosecution story as brought
forth by the testimony of prosecution witnesses, does not inspire any
confidence. The initial burden of proof lied on the prosecution and the
burden would not shift on the accused persons, merely on the fact that
unnatural death had occurred within 7 years of marriage, without even
proving the dowry demand prior to the incident in question. All the
allegations against them are cryptic in nature and no specific allegations
with the specific role played by the accused persons or any specific date,
time etc., of the alleged incidents, could be brought on record by the
prosecution. 107. Since, the star prosecution witnesses namely PW10 Arjun had
turned hostile and he has not supported the case of the prosecution, this
court deems it appropriate to discuss the law laid down in dealing with
the testimony of a witness over an issue, the matter is decided by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in " C. Muniappan v. State of T.N. ",
(2010) 9 SCC 567 wherein it is held as under: (Vide Bhagwan Singh v. State of Haryana, ( 1976) 1
 SCC 389, Rabindra Kumar Dey v. State of Orissa ,
 ( 1976) 4 SCC 233, Syad Akbar v. State of
 Karnataka , (1980) 1 SCC 30 and Khujji v. State of
 M.P., (1991) 3 SCC 627, SCC p. 635, para 6.) 82. In State of U.P. v. Ramesh Prasad Misra [(1996)
 10 SCC 360: 1996 SCC (Cri) 1278] this Court held
 that (at SCC p. 363, para 7) evidence of a hostile
 witness would not be totally rejected if spoken in
 favour of the prosecution or the accused but
 required to be subjected to close scrutiny and that
 portion of the evidence which is consistent with the
 case of the prosecution or defence can be relied
 upon. A similar view has been reiterated by this
 Court in Balu Sonba Shinde v. State of Maharashtra [(2002) 7 SCC 543: 2003 SCC (Cri) 112], Gagan
 Kanojia v. State of Punjab [(2006) 13 SCC 516: 83. Thus, the law can be summarised to the effect
 that the evidence of a hostile witness cannot be
 discarded as a whole, and relevant parts thereof
 which are admissible in law, can be used by the
 prosecution or the defence. 84. In the instant case, some of the material
 witnesses i.e. B. Kamal (PW 86) and R. Maruthu
 (PW 51) turned hostile. Their evidence has been
 taken into consideration by the courts below strictly
 in accordance with law. Some omissions,
 improvements in the evidence of the PWs have been
 pointed out by the learned counsel for the
 appellants, but we find them to be very trivial in
 nature. 85. It is settled proposition of law that even if there
 are some omissions, contradictions and
 discrepancies, the entire evidence cannot be
 disregarded. After exercising care and caution and Digitally signed by ATUL ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: Sate of Gujrat, [(1983) 3 SCC 217 : 1983 SCC (Cri)
 728 : AIR 1983 SC 753], State of Rajasthan v. Om
 Prakash , [(2007) 12 SCC 381 : (2008) 1 SCC (Cri)
 411], Prithu v. State of H.P., [(2009) 11 SCC 585 : The prosecution must establish existence of "proximate and live link" 111. Conjoint reading of section 304-B IPC and section 113-B Indian
Evidence Act, thus predicate the burden of the prosecution to
unassailably substantiate the ingredients of the two sections, by direct
and convincing evidence, so as to avail the presumption engrafted under
the law against the accused persons. Proof of cruelty or harassment by
the husband or his relatives charged is thus the sine qua non to invoke
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 112. The presumption of law as laid down in section 113-B of Indian
Evidence Act, 1872 was upon the wisdom of the legislature of relieving
the prosecution of the rigor of proof, of often practically inaccessible
evidence, which was guarded within the closed confines of the
matrimonial home. However, in absence of cogent evidence spelling out
the ingredients of the offence, especially the most essential ingredient of
harassment/cruelty soon before the death, against any of the accused
persons, does not shift the burden to meet the reverse onus upon them. 113. In the facts of the present case, it seems that accused Pradeep
Sharma and Rajeev Sharma have been roped in only because of their
close relationship with accused Sandeep Sharma (husband of the
deceased). Accused Pradeep Sharma and Rajeev Sharma were the devars
of the deceased and younger brothers of accused Sandeep Sharma. There
are no specific allegations against accused Pradeep Sharma and Rajeev
Sharma in the statements of the parents of the deceased, Ex. PW2/A and
Ex. PW5/A. Thereafter, when PW2 entered into the witness box, he had
leveled general and cryptic allegations against them of quarreling with
the deceased after consuming liquor or that his daughter Bharti told him
that her husband, sasur and devars used to quarrel with her and also used Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 114. Similarly, there are no specific allegations leveled against the
accused Siya Devi (saas of the deceased) by PW2 Bhole Shankar. During
his testimony, PW2 had not deposed even a single word against the
accused Siya Devi. Similarly, nothing against her was deposed by PW10
Arjun. Furthermore, the only allegation leveled against accused Siya
Devi by the mother of the deceased, PW6 Kiran was that after accused
Sandeep used to give beatings to her daughter, she had complained about
the same to accused Siya Devi, however, even she did not take any
action against the deeds of her son. Even these allegations were material
improvements, since, the same were not stated by PW6, in her statement,
Ex. PW5/A, recorded by the Executive Magistrate. Therefore, the Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 115. When the court is convinced with the quality of the evidence
produced, it becomes the best evidence. Such testimony being natural,
adding to the degree of probability, the court has to make reliance upon
it in proving a fact. There is no doubt that the trial court is the best court
to decide on material aspect of a case as no mathematical calculation or
straitjacket formula can be made on the assessment of a witness, as the
journey towards the truth can be seen better through the eyes of the trial
judge. In fact, this is the real objective behind the enactment itself, which
extends the maximum discretion to the court. Each case must be judged
on its own facts. There is no doubt that when a criminal court has to
appreciate evidence given by witnesses, who are partisan or interested or
hostile, it has to be very careful in weighing such evidence. Whether or
not there are discrepancies in the evidence; whether or not the evidence
strikes the court as genuine; whether or not the story disclosed by the
evidence is probable, are all matters which must be taken into account. It
is settled law that the evidence of the hostile witness would not be totally
rejected if spoken in favour of the prosecution or the accused but
required to be subjected to close scrutiny and if on such scrutiny, his
evidence is found to be intrinsically reliable, inherently probable &
wholly trustworthy and that portion of the evidence that is consistent Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 116. From the evidence brought on record, the prosecution has
miserably failed to satisfy the ingredients of the offence punishable u/s
304-B IPC, 1860. From the record, it is clear that the prosecution could
not bring home the guilt of the accused persons for having subjected the
deceased to cruelty. There is nothing on the record, as brought in through
the testimony of the prosecution witnesses that there was any willful
conduct of such nature as is likely to drive the deceased to commit to
suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health whether
mental or physical. The testimony of the prosecution witnesses could not
establish that the deceased was harassed with a view to coerce her or any
person related to her, to made any unlawful demand for any property or
valuable security or on account of failure by her or any person related to
her to meet such a demand. In the present case, it is not the case of the
prosecution that the deceased had committed suicide or that the accused
persons had abetted the said suicide. There is no evidence brought on
record to establish that the deceased was subjected to cruelty and
therefore, the accused persons cannot be convicted for committing the
offence punishable u/s 498-A IPC, 1860. 117. Therefore, the inherent contradictions and inconsistencies in the
deposition of the star witnesses PW2 Bhole Shankar and PW6 Kiran has
cast serious doubts upon the veracity of the statements of the said
witnesses before the SDM/Executive Magistrate, especially when it is Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 118. In the present case, the conduct of the accused persons is also
relevant. The call on 100 number, which led to registration of DD No.
51B, Ex. PW1/D, was made by the accused Suresh himself, wherein, he
had told the responder police official of PCR van that his bahu had
committed suicide by hanging. Furthermore, it had also categorically
come in the testimony of the IO PW13 Inspector Ravi Kant that when he
reached the spot at 07:00 PM, the accused persons i.e. the in-laws of the
deceased were found present there and he had met them. Therefore, one
of the accused persons informing the police and the remaining accused
persons being found present at the spot, when the police officials arrived
there and they had not tried to escape away from the place of occurrence,
also becomes relevant. CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 92/98 119. Although, the phrase "otherwise than under normal
circumstances" is wide enough to encompass a suicidal death. However,
for the presumption u/s 113-B of Indian Evidence Act, 1872, to kick in,
what is extremely important that the said presumption is not with respect
to commission of an act of cruelty or harassment, in connection with any
demand of dowry, which is one of the essential ingredients of 'dowry
death'. The presumption, however, is in respect of commission of
offence of dowry death, only when all the essential ingredients are
proved beyond reasonable doubt by ordinary rule of evidence which
mean that to prove the essential ingredients of an offence of 'dowry
death', the burden was on the prosecution. In the present case, it was not
disputed that the deceased died otherwise then under normal
circumstances, within 7 years of her marriage. However, the moot
question was whether the accused persons had subjected the deceased to
cruelty or harassment, soon before her death, in connection with any
demands of dowry, which the prosecution has miserably failed to prove
beyond reasonable doubt. Since, the demand of dowry was not
established, there cannot be any presumption u/s 113-B of Indian
Evidence Act, 1872. 120. From the evidence of the prosecution witnesses, it could not be
said that the accused persons had abetted the commission of suicide by
the deceased, therefore, even though there were no charges framed u/s
306 IPC, 1860, however, the same being a minor offence, compared to section 304-B IPC, 1860, upon careful appreciation of the evidence
brought on record by the prosecution, even the essential ingredient of
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 93/98 AHLAWAT Date: Conclusion & Findings: Moreover, all the circumstances should be complete and there should be
no gap left in the chain of evidence. Further, the proved circumstances
must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused
and totally inconsistent with his innocence, as held by the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in "Hanuman Govind Nargundkar Vs. State of
MP" AIR 1952 SC 343, "Bodh Raj Vs. State of J&K" AIR 2002 SC
3164 and "Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of Maharashtra " AIR
1984 SC 1622 and "C. Chenga Reddy and Ors. Vs. State of A.P." (1996)
10 SCC 193. 124. It is also settled law that accused has to only proboblize the defense
and he is presumed to be innocent till he is proved to be guilty.
Suspicion, however, strong can never take place of proof. There is
indeed a long distance between accused "May have committed the
offence" and "Must have committed the offence", which must be
traversed by the prosecution by adducing reliable evidence. Emphasis is
supplied on the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
" Kailash Gaur Vs. State of Assam " ( 2012) 2 SCC 34 and "Padala Veera
Reddy Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh " AIR 1990 SC 79. 125. There is another golden thread which runs through the web of
administration of justice in criminal cases, is that if two views are
possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt of Digitally signed by ATUL AHLAWAT ATUL Date: 126. The improvements and the inherent contradictions in the testimony
of the prosecution witnesses had certainly raised doubts in the mind of
the Court and the effort of the Criminal Court is not to be prowl for
imaginative doubts, unless is doubt is of a reasonable dimension and is
what judicially conscientious mind entertains with some objectivity,
otherwise no benefit can be claimed by the accused. In the present case
the doubts raised from the testimony of the prosecution witnesses cannot
be set to be merely imaginative and the same has been borne from the
record of the present case. The said doubts are not merely imaginary or
trivial in nature and it has dented the entire case of the prosecution. The
burden of proof cast upon the accused person is governed by the
principle of "preponderance of probabilities" and in light of the
discussion above, the accused person in the present case has been able to
raise reasonable doubts against the prosecution version of events and the
hypothesis as propounded by the accused person that the deceased was
suffering from trauma and depression and that she had committed
suicide. Thereafter, her family members have falsely implicated the
accused persons in the present case. With the evidence brought on
record, it cannot be said that the chain of prosecution witnesses and the
evidence brought on record was so complete, so as to not leave any
reasonable ground consistent with the innocence of the accused persons. Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
 AHLAWAT Date: 127. When the entire evidence of the present case is cumulatively read
and appreciated in the background of the settled principle of law and in
the light of the evidence adduced by the prosecution is not worthy of
acceptance and there is a serious shadow of doubt cast upon the case of
the prosecution, that the accused persons had committed dowry death of
deceased Bharti. The brother of the deceased, PW10 Arjun had not
supported the case of the prosecution and he was declared hostile. Even
after detailed cross examination conducted on behalf of the State,
nothing material came out from his testimony to substantiate the
prosecution's case. Furthermore, from the testimony of the PW2 Bhole
Shankar, PW6 Kiran, PW10 Arjun and DW1 Guddi Devi, it has raised a
reasonable doubt that the deceased Bharti was suffering from depression
and trauma, after she had suffered a miscarriage and that she was not
having good relations with her bhabhis, who did not use to allow her to
stay with her parents, had further struck a final nail in the coffin of the
prosecution's case. Therefore, in the opinion of this Court, there is no
doubt that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case beyond
reasonable doubt that the accused persons had caused dowry death of the
deceased Bharti and it is a case of suicidal death. Furthermore, from the
evidence brought on record, the prosecution could not satisfy its burden
that the deceased was subjected to cruelty by her husband or the relatives
of her husband in connection with any demand of dowry or otherwise.
Hence, accused Sandeep Sharma, Suresh Sharma, Siya Devi, Pradeep
Sharma and Rajesh Sharma are acquitted of the charges for committing
the offences punishable u/s 498A / 304-B / 34 IPC, 1860 and they shall be
 Digitally
 signed by
 ATUL
 ATUL AHLAWAT
CNR No. DLNE01-001155-2019 State Vs. Sandeep Sharma & Ors. FIR No. 457/2018 Page no. 97/98 AHLAWAT Date: 128. The accused persons have already filed their bail bonds u/s 437A Cr.PC and the same shall remain in force for a period of six months from
today. All the other bail bonds/surety bonds stands canceled and the
earlier sureties except for sureties given u/s 437A Cr.PC stands
discharged. The original documents, if any, be released to the rightful
owner. 129. The case property, if any, be released to the rightful owner as per
the law and the applicable rules. 130. File be consigned to the record room after due compliance. Announced in the open court on 11.03.2025. This judgment consists of 98 pages and all
of them have been digitally signed by me.