Hon'ble Mrs. Sangeeta Chandra,J. ( As per Anil Kumar, J.)
 
	Heard Sri Ram Raj, learned counsel for the appellant. Present first appeal under section 19(1) of the Family Court Act has been filed by the appellant against the order dated 11.02.2020 passed by learned Additional Principal Judge, Family Court, Court no.1 Lucknow in Regular Suit No.1274 of 2017 (Lt. Col. Rajesh Kumar Singh Vs. Mrs. Nalini Singh ) whereby application filed by the appellant under Order 7 Rule 11 of C.P.C . has been rejected. Facts, in brief, as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant are that marriage of appellant and respondent was solemnized according to Hindu Rites and Customs on 13..02.2005 at Nakodha Garden, Swaroop Sagar Choraya, Udaipur( Rajasthan). Thereafter their matrimonial relation became estranged, so respondent/ Lt. Col. Rajesh Kumar Singh filed a Petition under Section 11 read with Section 12 read with section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, registered as Regular Suit No.1274 of 2017 (Lt. Col. Rajesh Kumar Singh Vs. Smt. Nalini Singh ) in the Court of Principal Judge, Family Court, Lucknow with the following relief:- On 25.10.2019 appellant/defendent had filed her written statement. Learned counsel for the appellant further submits that on 15.03.2019 an application under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . read with Section 151 C.P.C. had been filed by the appellant/ defendant, registered as Application no. C-14 to which respondent/plaintiff had filed objection on 23.03.2019. By order dated 11.02.2020, Additional Principal Judge, Family Court no.1, Lucknow rejected the appellant's application under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C. read with Section 151 C.P.C. Learned counsel for the appellant while challenging the impugned order submits that Additional Principal Judge, Family Court, Court no.1 Lucknow while passing the impugned order dated 11.02.2020 in Regular Suit No.1274 of 2017; Lt. Col. Rajesh Kumar Singh Vs. Smt. Nalini Singh has committed serious error of both law and fact in rejecting the application preferred by the appellant under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . and has passed the impugned order on conjectures and surmises. On behalf of the appellant, it has also been argued that the court below has arbitrarily and illegally rejected the appellant's application under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . without considering the documentary evidence submitted by the appellant proving that the plaintiff/respondent had full and definite knowledge of appellant's earlier marriage on 13.02.2005 itself and the plaintiff/respondent had filed online documents uploaded in his own handwriting on 20.05.2015 to the passport department. So the impugned order dated 11.02.2020 passed by court below is liable to be set aside primarily on the ground that the said order is in violation of a settled principle of law that a person who does not come to the court / judicial forum with clean hands is not entitled to be heard on merits of his grievance and in any case, such person is not entitled to any relief from the Court. In this regard it is further submitted that court is not only entitled but is duty bound to protect itself from unscrupulous litigants who do not have any respect for truth and who try to pollute stream of justice by resorting to falsehood or by making misstatements or by suppressing facts which have a bearing on adjudication of the case; the plaintiff/respondent since did not come with clean hands before the court below, he is not entitled to be heard and indeed, such a person is not entitled to any relief from any judicial forum, thus the application under order 7 Rule 11 ought to have been allowed by the court below as the same was filed without disclosing a true cause of action. In this regard , he has placed reliance in paragraph 49 of the plaint reads thus: Learned counsel for the appellant also submits that in view of the averments made in para 49 of the plaint it transpires that the facts which are stated by the plaintiff/respondent therein are wholly incorrect and wrong. In the said paragraph plaintiff/respondent incorrectly stated that alternative cause of action again accrued in his favour against the defendant in March, 2017. It amounts to concealment of material fact as on the said date no cause of action accrued in favour of plaintiff in regard to filing of suit which accrued prior to that date so the suit filed by the plaintiff deserved to be dismissed. However, the court below has manifestly erred on both law by facts and not considering the said fact and passing the impugned order which is contrary to provisions as provided under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . In support of his arguments, learned counsel for the petitioner has placed reliance on the following judgments. 1. Canara Bank Vs. P. Selathal and others (2020) SCC Online Supreme Court 245. 2. T. Arivandandam Vs. TV Satyapal and another (1977) 4 SCC 467 3. ITC Limited Vs. Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal and others (1998)2 SCC 70 4. F.B. Smt. Kiran Bala Srivastava Vs. Jai Prakash Srivastava 2005 LCD 1 F.B.
 
	Accordingly, Sri Ram Raj, learned counsel for the appellant submits that the impugned order may be set aside and the present First Appeal may be allowed. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant and perused the record. In order to decide the controversy involved in the preset case, we feel appropriate to go through the relevant provisions under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . which reads as under:- Provided that the time fixed by the Court for the correction of the valuation or supplying of the requisite stamp- papers shall not be extended unless the Court, for reasons to be recorded, is satisfied that the plaintiff was prevented by any cause of an exceptional nature from correcting the valuation or supplying the requisite stamp- papers, as the case may be, within the time fixed by the Court and that refusal to extend such time would cause grave injustice to the plaintiff." From the bare perusal of aforesaid provisions the position which emerges out is that the plaint can be rejected only if it appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law. Even if the expression of the statement in the plaint is given a liberal meaning, documents filed with the plaint may be looked into but nothing more. The court must give a meaningful reading to the plaint and if it is manifestly vexatious or meritless in the sense of not disclosing a clear right to sue, the court may exercise its power under Order 7 Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908.(see Bhagwati Prasad Misra Vs. Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki, AIR 1945 Oudh 177 and Manohar Lal Chatrath Vs. Municipal Corporation of Delhi , AIR 2000 Del 40)
 
	Further, for the purpose of deciding an application under this Rule, it is only the facts pleaded in the plaint which are to be taken into account and if on the basis of those facts the plaint falls within any of the infirmities enumerated in Rule 11 of Order 7, then alone the plaint is liable to be rejected. (See Rakesh Kumar Vs. Umesh Kumar , AIR 2009 Del 129)
 
	Hon'ble the Apex Court in the case of T. Arivandandam (Supra) has held as under :- In A.B.C. Laminart Pvt. Ltd. v. A.P. Agencies, Salem (1989) 2 SCC 163, Hon'ble the Apex Court explained the meaning of "cause of action" as follows: The Apex Court in I.T.C. Limited Vs. Debt Recovery Appellate Tribunal and others (1998)2 SCC 70 in para 16 and 27 held as under:- In the case of Sopan Sukhdeo Sable Vs. Assistant Charity Commissioner (2004) 3 SCC 137, Hon'ble the Apex Court in para 11 and 12 has observed as under:- In the case of Church of Christ Charitable Trust and Educational Charitable Society Vs. Ponniamman Educational Trust (2012) 8 SCC 706, Hon'ble the Apex Court in para-13 has held as under:- Hon'ble the Apex Court in the case of Madanuri Sri Rama Chandra Murthy Vs. Syed Jalal (2017) 13 SCC 174 has observed in para 7 as under :- In the case of Canara Bank ( supra) Hon'ble the Supreme Court after taking into consideration the relevant law on the issue in T. Arivandandam ( supra) case has held as under:- In a nut shell, it can be said that for deciding whether the plaint discloses cause of action or not, the court has to see only the averments in the plaint and the accompanying documents relied upon in the plaint and the facts elicited from the plaintiff by examining him under Order 10 of the Code of Civil Procedure . For the purpose of deciding the application under Order 7 Rule 11 for rejecting the plaint, the court has also to presume the facts stated in the plaint as correct. In the instant matter,the court below rejected the application moved by the appellant under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . read with section 151 C.P.C. with the following observations:- Keeping in view the observations made by the court below while rejecting the application of the appellant under Order 7 Rule 11 C.P.C . read with section 151 C.P.C. as well as the settled legal proposition of law on the point in issue that the plaint filed by the plaintiff can only be rejected when the same is barred by any law or no cause of action has accrued to the plaintiff for filing the same. However, from the bare perusal of the plaint in the instant matter , the said position does not exist, so we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned order passed by the court below. Further, appellant/ respondent cannot derive any benefit from the judugment given by a Full Bench of this Court in the case of Smt. Kiran Bala Srivastava Vs. Jai Prakash Srivastava, 2005(23) LCD 1 as the same does not relate to the controversy relating to Order 7 Rule 11 read with section 151 C.P.C. For the foregoing reasons, the first appeal lacks merit and is dismissed. (Sangeeta Chandra,J.) (Anil Kumar,J.)
 
Order Date :- 28.07.2020
 
dk/