( 2025:HHC:25004 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. Revision No. 81 of 2013

 . Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting? 1 Yes

 For the petitioner : Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Suri,

 Advocate. For the respondent : Mr. Prashant Sen, Deputy

 Advocate General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The present petition is directed against the

 judgment dated 10.01.2013 passed by learned Sessions

 Judge, Sirmaur District at Nahan (learned appellate Court)

 vide which the judgment of conviction dated 30.11.2010 and

 order of sentence dated 03.12.2010 passed by learned

 Judicial Magistrate First Class, Nahan (learned trial Court) 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 were upheld. (Parties shall hereinafter be referred to in the

 same manner as they were arrayed before the learned Trial

 . Court for convenience.) 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the

 present petition are that the police presented a challan

 before the learned Trial Court for the commission of an

 offence punishable under Section 379 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code (in short ' IPC '). It was asserted

 that the informant Bhagat Ram Kataria (PW-4) is the

 owner of the vehicle bearing registration No. HP-18-6400. He had parked his car on Mall Road on 11.05.2009 at about

 8:00 PM. When he was going on a morning walk on

 12.05.2009 at about 7:00 am, he found that his car was

 missing. He searched for the car in the whole town, but

 could not find it. He reported the matter to the police, and

 the police registered an FIR (Ext. PW8/A). HC Ranjeet Singh

 (PW-7) conducted the investigation. He visited the spot

 and prepared the site plan (Ext. PW7/A). The informant

 produced the registration certificate and the key to the

 vehicle. These were seized vide seizure memo (Ext. PW1/A). Asif Rahman (PW-2) was running a shop of hair dresser at ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 3 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 Saharanpur. Accused Javed and Raman Kapoor came to his

 shop in a vehicle having a broken registration plate bearing

 . registration No. HP-18-6. They told Asif Rahman that the

 vehicle had a defect, that they had parked the vehicle at

 Gandhi Park and would take the vehicle after a few days. However, they did not return for 3-4 days. Hence, Asif

 Rahman called his brother-in-law, Firoz Khan (PW-5) and

 told him about the visit of the accused and the parking of

 the car. Firoz Khan informed Bhagat Ram (PW-4), and

 Bhagat Ram told the police about this fact. HC Ranjeet

 Singh (PW-7), ASI Subhash Chand, HHC Jagdish (PW-1)

 went to Saharanpur with Firoz Khan. A Maruti Car bearing

 Registration No. HR-18-6 was found parked at Gandhi

 Park. The word 'HP' were changed to 'HR' with the help of

 a black tape. The police checked the chassis number and

 engine number of the car, and these matched the numbers

 mentioned on the Registration Certificate. The police

 checked the vehicle and found one purse having two

 photographs of accused Raman Kapoor and one PAN Card

 of Raman Kapoor's father inside the car. These were put in

 a parcel, and the parcel was sealed with the seal impression ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 4 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 'T'. Seal impression (Ext. PW7/B) was taken on a separate

 piece of cloth, and the seal was handed over to Bhagat Ram

 . after the use. The parcel was seized vide seizure memo (Ext

 PW4/A). The site plan (Ext. PW7/C) showing the place of

 recovery was prepared. The accused Raman Kapoor and

 Javed Ahmad were associated with the investigation. Raman Kapoor produced a key to a motorcycle, which was

 seized vide memo (Ext PW1/B). It was put in a cloth parcel,

 and the parcel was sealed with seal impression 'A'. Seal

 impression (Ext. PW7/D) was taken on a separate piece of

 cloth. The police arrested the accused Raman Kapoor. Accused Raman Kapoor made a statement (Ext PW1/C) that

 he had concealed a stepney of the vehicle in a jungle. The

 accused led the police and the witnesses to this place from

 where he got recovered a stepney. The police seized the

 stepney vide seizure memo (Ext PW1/D). The site plan of

 the place of recovery (Ext.PW7/E) was prepared. Accused

 Raman Kapoor made a disclosure statement (Ext PW1/E)

 that he could show the place from where the theft was

 committed. The accused led the police to the place from

 where the theft was committed. The accused also showed ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 5 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 the place where the car was parked. A site plan (Ext. PW7/F)

 was prepared. Statements of witnesses were recorded as

 . per their version, and after the completion of the

 investigation, the challan was prepared and presented

 before the Court. 3. The accused were charged with the commission

 of an offence punishable under Section 379 read with Section 34 of the IPC, to which they pleaded not guilty and

 claimed to be tried. 4. The prosecution examines 8 witnesses to prove

 its case. Jagdish Chand (PW-1) is the witness to the

 recovery and the disclosure statement. Asif Rehman

 (PW-2) saw the accused with the vehicle and informed his

 brother-in-law about the same. HC Kawar Singh (PW-3)

 was working as MHC with whom the case property was

 deposited. Bhagat Ram (PW-4) is the informant. Firoj Khan

 (PW-5) intimated about the parking of the car at

 Saharanpur to the informant. Inspector Sant Singh (PW-6)

 prepared the challan. HC Ranjeet Singh (PW-7) conducted

 the investigation. HC Kunwar Singh (PW-8) signed the FIR. ( 2025:HHC:25004 ) 5. The accused, in their statements recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C., denied the prosecution's case in its

 . entirety. Accused Raman Kapoor stated that the witnesses,

 Firoj Khan and Asif Rehman, made false statements against

 him because of the dispute with Firoj Khan. Firoj Khan and

 Asif Rehman are relatives of each other. He claimed that he

 was innocent. He stated that he wanted to produce defence

 evidence, but subsequently, no evidence was produced. 6. Learned Trial Court held that the prosecution

 had succeeded in proving that the car was stolen from the

 Mall Road and was found at Saharanpur. It was also proved

 that photographs of the accused Raman Kapoor and a

 photocopy of the PAN card of Raman Kapoor's father were

 found in the car. The accused, Raman Kapoor, failed to

 provide any explanation for the recovery of these articles. The stepney of the stolen car was recovered at the instance

 of accused Raman Kapoor. He pointed out the places from

 which the car was stolen and the place where the car was

 parked. All these circumstances unerringly pointed towards

 the guilt of the accused. The explanation provided by him

 that a false case was made against him was not established ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 7 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 on the balance of probability. However, the prosecution's

 case was not proved against the accused Javed Khan

 . because there was nothing to connect him to the

 commission of crime except the fact that he was present in

 the vehicle when it was brought to Gandhi Park. This was

 not sufficient to convict him. Hence, the learned Trial Court

 acquitted the accused, Javed Khan, but convicted the

 accused, Raman Kapoor, for the commission of an offence

 punishable under Section 379 of IPC and sentenced him to

 undergo simple imprisonment for 6 months. 7. Being aggrieved by the judgment and order

 passed by learned Trial Court, the accused filed an appeal

 which was decided by learned Sessions Judge, Sirmaur

 District at Nahan (learned Appellate Court). Learned

 Appellate Court concurred with the findings recorded by

 learned Trial Court that the prosecution had proved that

 the car was stolen from the Mall Road, Nahan and it was

 recovered at Gandhi Park, Saharanpur. It was also proved

 that the police found the photographs of accused Raman

 Kapoor and a photocopy of the PAN Card of Raman

 Kapoor's father in the car. The stepney of the car was ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 8 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 recovered at the instance of accused Raman Kapoor. He had

 also identified the places from where the theft was

 . committed and where the car was parked. These

 circumstances pointed to the guilt of the accused. Hence,

 the learned Trial Court had rightly convicted and sentenced

 him. Consequently, the appeal filed by accused Raman

 Kapoor was dismissed. 8. Being aggrieved by the judgments and order

 passed by the learned Courts below, the accused filed the

 present revision, asserting that the learned Courts below

 erred in appreciating the material placed before them. It

 was duly established on record that the accused was falsely

 implicated and he had no concern with the theft of the car. The prosecution relied upon the statements of interested

 witnesses. They were inimical to the family of the accused. No independent witness to the recovery was associated,

 despite the opportunity and availability; therefore, it was

 prayed that the present revision be allowed and the

 judgments and order passed by learned Courts below be set

 aside. ( 2025:HHC:25004 ) 9. I have heard Mr. Sanjiv Kumar Suri, learned

 counsel for the petitioner/accused and Mr. Parshant Sen,

 . learned Deputy Advocate General for the respondent/State. 10. Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Suri, learned counsel for the

 petitioner/accused, submitted that the learned Courts

 below erred in appreciating the material on record. It was

 duly proved on record that the accused Javed had enmity

 with Asif Rehman (PW-2). Bhagat Ram (PW-4) is also

 inimical to accused Raman Kapoor. The prosecution

 witnesses admitted that the place of the incident is located

 in a heavily populated area; however, no independent

 witness was associated during the investigation. The

 statements of the prosecution witnesses did not inspire

 confidence, and learned Courts below erred in relying upon

 these statements. Therefore, he prayed that the present

 revision be allowed and the judgments and order passed by

 learned Courts below be set aside. 11. Mr. Parshant Sen, learned Deputy Advocate

 General, for the State, submitted that the prosecution had

 proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt and learned

 Courts below had rightly appreciated the material placed on ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 10 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 record. Mere enmity is not sufficient to discard the

 testimony of the witness. The photographs of the accused

 . Raman Kapoor and the PAN Card of his father were found

 in the car, for which no explanation was provided by him. He had pointed out the place from where the stepney was

 recovered. He was seen with the car by Asif Rehman

 (PW-2), who had no enmity with accused Raman Kapoor. This Court should not disturb the concurrent findings of

 fact recorded by the learned Courts below. He prayed that

 the present petition be dismissed. 12. I have given considerable thought to the

 submission made at the bar and have gone through the

 record carefully. 13. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court

 in Malkeet Singh Gill v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2022) 8 SCC

 204: (2022) 3 SCC (Cri) 348: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 786 that the

 revisional Court is not an appellate Court and it can only

 rectify the patent defect, errors of jurisdiction or the law. It

 was observed at page 207: - 14. This position was reiterated in State of Gujarat v. Dilipsinh Kishorsinh Rao, (2023) 17 SCC 688: 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 1294, wherein it was observed at page 695: which, upon the face of it, bear a token of careful

 consideration and appear to be in accordance
 with law. If one looks into the various judgments
 of this Court, it emerges that the revisional

 jurisdiction can be invoked where the decisions
 under challenge are grossly erroneous, there is
 no compliance with the provisions of law, the
 finding recorded is based on no evidence,
 material evidence is ignored, or judicial

 discretion is exercised arbitrarily or perversely.
 These are not exhaustive classes, but are merely
 indicative. Each case would have to be
 determined on its own merits. 13. Another well-accepted norm is that the

 revisional jurisdiction of the higher court is a
 very limited one and cannot be exercised in a
 routine manner. One of the inbuilt restrictions is
 that it should not be against an interim or
 interlocutory order. The Court has to keep in

 mind that the exercise of revisional jurisdiction
 itself should not lead to injustice ex facie. Where
 the Court is dealing with the question as to

 whether the charge has been framed properly
 and in accordance with law in a given case, it

 may be reluctant to interfere in the exercise of its
 revisional jurisdiction unless the case
 substantially falls within the categories

 aforestated. Even framing of charge is a much-
 advanced stage in the proceedings under CrPC ." 16. This Court in the aforesaid judgment in Amit
 Kapoor case [ Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh Chander , (2012)
 9 SCC 460 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 687 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri)
 986] has also laid down principles to be considered
 for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 397 particularly in the context of prayer for quashing of
 charge framed under Section 228CrPC is sought for
 as under : ( Amit Kapoor case [ Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh
 Chander , (2012) 9 SCC 460 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 687 : such jurisdiction. However, it is not only difficult

 but inherently impossible to state such principles
 with precision. At best and upon objective
 analysis of various judgments of this Court, we

 are able to cull out some of the principles to be
 considered for proper exercise of jurisdiction,
 particularly, with regard to quashing of charge
 either in exercise of jurisdiction under Section
 397 or Section 482 of the Code or together, as the

 case may be: No meticulous examination of the evidence is
 needed for considering whether the case would
 end in conviction or not at the stage of framing
 of charge or quashing of charge. ***
 27.9. Another very significant caution that the
 courts have to observe is that it cannot examine
 the facts, evidence and materials on record to
 determine whether there is sufficient material on
 the basis of which the case would end in a ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 14 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 conviction; the court is concerned primarily with
 the allegations taken as a whole whether they
 will constitute an offence and, if so, is it an abuse
 of the process of court leading to injustice. . ***

 27.13. Quashing of a charge is an exception to the
 rule of continuous prosecution. Where the

 offence is even broadly satisfied, the Court
 should be more inclined to permit continuation
 of prosecution rather than its quashing at that
 initial stage. The Court is not expected to
 marshal the records with a view to decide

 admissibility and reliability of the documents or
 records, but is an opinion formed prima facie." 17. The revisional court cannot sit as an appellate
 court and start appreciating the evidence by finding

 out inconsistencies in the statement of witnesses,

 and it is not legally permissible. The High Courts
 ought to be cognizant of the fact that the trial court
 was dealing with an application for discharge. 15. This position was reiterated in State of Gujarat v. Dilipsinh Kishorsinh Rao, (2023) 17 SCC 688: 2023 SCC

 OnLine SC 1294, wherein it was observed at page 695: an error of jurisdiction or law. There has to be a

 well-founded error, and it may not be
 appropriate for the court to scrutinise the orders,
 which, upon the face of it, bear a token of careful

 consideration and appear to be in accordance
 with law. If one looks into the various judgments
 of this Court, it emerges that the revisional
 jurisdiction can be invoked where the decisions
 under challenge are grossly erroneous, there is

 no compliance with the provisions of law, the
 finding recorded is based on no evidence,
 material evidence is ignored, or judicial
 discretion is exercised arbitrarily or perversely. These are not exhaustive classes, but are merely
 indicative. Each case would have to be

 determined on its own merits. 13. Another well-accepted norm is that the
 revisional jurisdiction of the higher court is a
 very limited one and cannot be exercised in a

 routine manner. One of the inbuilt restrictions is
 that it should not be against an interim or
 interlocutory order. The Court has to keep in

 mind that the exercise of revisional jurisdiction
 itself should not lead to injustice ex facie. Where

 the Court is dealing with the question as to
 whether the charge has been framed properly
 and in accordance with law in a given case, it

 may be reluctant to interfere in the exercise of its
 revisional jurisdiction unless the case
 substantially falls within the categories
 aforestated. Even framing of charge is a much-
 advanced stage in the proceedings under CrPC ." 16. This Court in the aforesaid judgment in Amit
 Kapoor case [ Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh Chander , (2012)
 9 SCC 460 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 687 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri)
 986] has also laid down principles to be considered
 for exercise of jurisdiction under Section 397 particularly in the context of prayer for quashing of
 charge framed under Section 228CrPC is sought for
 as under : ( Amit Kapoor case [ Amit Kapoor v. Ramesh ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 16 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 Chander, (2012) 9 SCC 460 : (2012) 4 SCC (Civ) 687 : Section 482 of the Code, and the fine line of

 jurisdictional distinction, it will now be
 appropriate for us to enlist the principles with
 reference to which the courts should exercise

 such jurisdiction. However, it is not only difficult
 but inherently impossible to state such principles
 with precision. At best and upon objective
 analysis of various judgments of this Court, we
 are able to cull out some of the principles to be

 considered for proper exercise of jurisdiction,
 particularly, with regard to quashing of charge
 either in exercise of jurisdiction under Section
 397 or Section 482 of the Code or together, as the

 case may be: No meticulous examination of the evidence is
 needed for considering whether the case would
 end in conviction or not at the stage of framing
 of charge or quashing of charge. *** ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 17 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 27.9. Another very significant caution that the
 courts have to observe is that it cannot examine
 the facts, evidence and materials on record to
 determine whether there is sufficient material on

 . the basis of which the case would end in a

 conviction; the court is concerned primarily with
 the allegations taken as a whole whether they
 will constitute an offence and, if so, is it an abuse

 of the process of court leading to injustice. ***
 27.13. Quashing of a charge is an exception to the
 rule of continuous prosecution. Where the

 offence is even broadly satisfied, the Court
 should be more inclined to permit continuation
 of prosecution rather than its quashing at that
 initial stage. The Court is not expected to
 rmarshal the records with a view to decide
 admissibility and reliability of the documents or

 records, but is an opinion formed prima facie." 17. The revisional court cannot sit as an appellate
 court and start appreciating the evidence by finding
 out inconsistencies in the statement of witnesses,

 and it is not legally permissible. The High Courts
 ought to be cognizant of the fact that the trial court
 was dealing with an application for discharge. 16. It was held in Kishan Rao v. Shankargouda ,

 (2018) 8 SCC 165: (2018) 3 SCC (Cri) 544: (2018) 4 SCC (Civ)

 37: 2018 SCC OnLine SC 651 that it is impermissible for the

 High Court to reappreciate the evidence and come to its

 conclusions in the absence of any perversity. It was

 observed at page 169: 13. Another judgment which has also been referred
 to and relied on by the High Court is the judgment of
 this Court in Sanjaysinh Ramrao Chavan v. Dattatray

 Gulabrao Phalke [Sanjaysinh Ramrao
 Chavan v. Dattatray Gulabrao Phalke, (2015) 3 SCC
 123: (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 19]. This Court held that the
 High Court, in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction,
 shall not interfere with the order of the Magistrate
 unless it is perverse or wholly unreasonable or there
 is non-consideration of any relevant material, the
 order cannot be set aside merely on the ground that
 another view is possible. The following has been laid
 down in para 14: (SCC p. 135)
 "14. ... Unless the order passed by the Magistrate
 is perverse or the view taken by the court is
 wholly unreasonable or there is non- consideration of any relevant material or there is ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 19 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 palpable misreading of records, the Revisional
 Court is not justified in setting aside the order,
 merely because another view is possible. The
 Revisional Court is not meant to act as an

 . appellate court. The whole purpose of the

 revisional jurisdiction is to preserve the power in
 the court to do justice in accordance with the
 principles of criminal jurisprudence. The

 revisional power of the court under Sections 397 to 401 CrPC is not to be equated with that of an
 appeal. Unless the finding of the court, whose
 decision is sought to be revised, is shown to be
 perverse or untenable in law or is grossly

 erroneous or glaringly unreasonable or where
 the decision is based on no material or where the
 material facts are wholly ignored or where the
 judicial discretion is exercised arbitrarily or
 rcapriciously, the courts may not interfere with
 the decision in exercise of their revisional

 jurisdiction." 14. In the above case , also conviction of the accused
 was recorded, and the High Court set aside
 [Dattatray Gulabrao Phalke v. Sanjaysinh Ramrao

 Chavan, 2013 SCC OnLine Bom 1753] the order of
 conviction by substituting its view. This Court set
 aside the High Court's order holding that the High

 Court exceeded its jurisdiction in substituting its
 views, and that too without any legal basis. 17. This position was reiterated in Bir Singh v. Mukesh Kumar, (2019) 4 SCC 197: (2019) 2 SCC (Cri) 40: 18. The present revision has to be decided as per the

 parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 19. Bhagat Ram (PW-4) stated that he had parked

 his Maruti Car bearing Registration No.HP-18-6400 on the

 Mall Road inside the parking line on 11.05.2009; however, it

 was found missing on 12.05.2009. He reported the matter

 to the police. Firoj Khan, his neighbour, was told by Asif

 Rahman that the car was parked in Gandhi Park,

 Saharanpur. Asif Rahman became suspicious because the

 accused had parked the car and had not returned; thereafter, the informant visited Saharanpur with the

 police. The Maruti Car was found parked at Gandhi Park. The front registration plate was broken. Registration No.

 HR-18-6 could be read. The letter "P" was changed to "R" with the help of black tape. The police checked the engine

 and the chassis number of the vehicle. These tallied with

 the stolen vehicle. The spare stepney was missing from the

 vehicle. One purse having the photographs of accused ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 21 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 Raman Kapoor was recovered from the car. The police put

 the photographs in the parcel and sealed the parcel. He

 . identified the purse, photographs and the identity card. Accused Raman Kapoor produced a key which was seized by

 the police. He stated in his cross-examination that his

 house was located near Hathi ki Kabar, where the people

 park their vehicles. He used to park his car inside the

 parking lot of the Mall Road. He admitted that the police

 post in Gunnu Ghat is located on Mall Road. He was not

 aware that the people used to walk frequently on the Mall

 Road till 1:00-1:30 AM. He admitted that people used to

 walk during the summers, but volunteered to say that the

 people do not walk at night. Seema was his tenant. He was

 not aware that Mohit Maria used to visit her, and accused

 Raman had quarrelled with him. He denied that he had

 evicted Seema after the incident. He came to know about

 the theft at about 7:00 AM. He went to the police post at

 8:00 AM. The police prepared various documents at

 different places. He denied that no recovery was effected in

 his presence. He denied that the photographs and identity ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 22 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 cards were provided by the police. He denied that he was

 making a false statement. . 20. There is nothing in his cross-examination to

 show that he is making a false statement. It was suggested

 to him that accused Raman quarrelled with Mohit. However, he denied this fact. A denied suggestion does not

 amount to any proof, and this suggestion is not sufficient

 to discard his testimony. 21. His testimony is duly corroborated by HHC

 Jagdish Chand (PW-1). He stated that accused Raman

 Kapoor produced one key on 16.05.2009, which was seized

 vide memo (Ex. PW1/B). It was put in a cloth parcel, and the

 parcel was sealed with seal 'A'. Accused Raman Kapoor

 made a disclosure statement in his presence and in

 presence of Chaman Lal that he had concealed the stepney

 of the vehicle at Judda Ka Johar, which could be got

 recovered by him. Statement (Ex.PW1/C) was reduced to

 writing. The police party went to Judda Ka Johar, where one

 stepney concealed in the bushes was got recovered. The

 police seized the stepney vide memo (Ext. PW1/D). Accused

 Raman Kapoor made a statement that he could show the ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 23 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 place from where the theft was committed and the place

 where the vehicle was parked. The accused led the police to

 . Mall Road from where the theft was committed and to

 Gandhi Park where the vehicle was parked. The memo

 (Ex.PW1/A) was prepared at about 1:00-1:15 PM. There are

 many shops and houses near the police post. Memo (Ex. PW1/B) was prepared in the police station. He did not

 remember whether any person was called while preparing

 this memo. Memo (Ext.PW1/D) was prepared at Judda Ka

 Johar. No independent witness was associated from the

 Nahan. Many heavily populated mohallas fall on the way to

 Judda Ka Johar. Many people have their houses around

 Gandhi Park. He denied that the false case was made

 against the accused. 22. The cross-examination of this witness was

 directed towards establishing that the houses of many

 people are located near the police post, the place of

 incident, and the place of recovery, and no independent

 witness was associated. This kind of cross-examination

 will not help the accused. Learned Courts below had rightly

 pointed out that the prosecution's case cannot be doubted ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 24 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 because no independent witness was associated with the

 disclosure statements and the consequent recoveries. In

 . State Versus Sunil 2001 (1) SCC 652, the recovery was

 discarded by the High Court on the ground that no

 independent witness had signed the memo, and it was

 signed only by the highly interested person. It was held by

 the Hon'ble Supreme Court that there is no requirement

 under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act or Section 161 of Cr.P.C. to obtain the signatures of independent

 witnesses. The requirement of independent witnesses is

 when the recovery is effected under Section 100(4) of the

 Cr.PC and not when the recovery is effected pursuant to the

 disclosure statement. It was further observed that

 statements of police officials cannot be doubted because

 they are official witnesses. It was observed: - 18. In this context, we may point out that there is
 no requirement either under Section 27 of the
 Evidence Act or under Section 161 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure to obtain the signature of

 independent witnesses on the record in which the

 statement of an accused is written. The legal
 obligation to call Independent and respectable
 inhabitants of the locality to attend and witness
 the exercise made by the police is cast on the

 police officer when searches are made under
 Chapter VII of the Code. Section 100(5) of the Code
 requires that such a search shall be made in their

 presence and a list of all things seized in the
 course of such search and of the places in which

 they are respectively found shall be prepared by
 such officer or another person, and signed by

 such witnesses. It must be remembered that a
 search is made to find out a thing or document
 which the searching officer has no prior idea
 where the thing or document is kept. He prowls
 for it either on reasonable suspicion or some
 guesswork that it could possibly be ferreted out in
 such prowling. It is a stark reality that during
 searches, the team which conducts the search
 would have to meddle with lots of other articles
 and documents also, and in such a process, many
 such articles or documents are likely to be
 displaced or even strewn helter-skelter. The
 legislative idea in insisting on such searches to be ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 26 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 made in the presence of two independent
 inhabitants of the locality is to ensure the safety
 of all such articles meddled with and to protect
 the rights of the persons entitled thereto. But the

 . recovery of an object pursuant to the information
 supplied by an accused in custody is different
 from the searching endeavour envisaged in

 Chapter VII of the Code. This Court has indicated
 the difference between the two processes in the Transport Commissioner, Andhra Pradesh,
 Hyderabad & Anr. v. S. Sardar Ali & Ors 1. Following

 observations of Chinnappa Reddy, J. can be used
 to support the said legal proposition: 19. Hence, it is a fallacious impression that when
 recovery is effected pursuant to any statement
 made by the accused, the document prepared by
 the Investigating Officer contemporaneous with
 such recovery must necessarily be attested by
 independent witnesses. Of course, if any such
 statement leads to the recovery of any article, it is
 open to the Investigating Officer to take the
 signature of any person present at that time on
 the document prepared for such recovery. But if
 no witness was present or if no person had agreed
 to affix his signature on the document, it is ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 27 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 difficult to lay down, as a proposition of law, that
 the document so prepared by the police officer
 must be treated as tainted and the recovery
 evidence unreliable. The court has to consider the

 . evidence of the Investigating Officer who deposed
 to the fact of recovery based on the statement
 elicited from the accused on its own worth. 20. We feel that it is an archaic notion that the
 actions of the police officer should be approached
 with initial distrust. We are aware that such a
 notion was lavishly entertained during the British

 period, and policemen also knew about it. Its
 hangover persisted during post-independent
 years, but it is time now to start placing at least
 initial trust in the actions and the documents

 made by the police. At any rate, the court cannot

 start with the presumption that the police records
 are untrustworthy. As a proposition of law, the
 presumption should be the other way around.
 That official acts of the police have been regularly

 performed is a wise principle of presumption and
 recognised even by the legislature. Hence, when a
 police officer gives evidence in court that a certain

 article was recovered by him on the strength of
 the statement made by the accused, it is open to

 the court to believe the version to be correct if it is
 not otherwise shown to be unreliable. It is for the

 accused, through cross-examination of witnesses
 or through any other materials, to show that the
 evidence of the police officer is either unreliable
 or at least unsafe to be acted upon in a particular
 case. If the court has any good reason to suspect
 the truthfulness of such records of the police, the
 court could certainly take into account the fact
 that no other independent person was present at
 the time of recovery. But it is not a legally
 approvable procedure to presume the police
 action as unreliable to start with, nor to jettison
 such action merely for the reason that police did
 not collect signatures of independent persons in ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 28 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 the documents made contemporaneous with such
 actions." 23. This question was also considered by the

 . Hon'ble Supreme Court in Praveen Kumar Versus State of

 Karnataka (2003) 12 SCC 199, in which a contention was

 raised that the statement recorded by the police under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act was not witnessed by

 any independent witness and the same should be rejected. It was held that there is no requirement to associate

 independent witnesses at the time of the disclosure

 statement. It was observed: - 24. The Full Bench of the Rajasthan High Court has

 also considered this question in State of Rajasthan vs.

 Mangal Singh , AIR 2017 Raj. 68 and gave the following

 reasons for not insisting upon the presence of independent

 witnesses during the disclosure statements: Officer would be required to keep the
 witnesses in attendance right from the
 moment the accused is arrested till the

 information is elicited. This would lead to an
 absolutely absurd situation and is likely to
 frustrate the investigation. The very sanctity
 of investigation and the privilege available to

 the Investigating Officer to keep the
 investigation secluded from prying eyes would
 be compromised. (b) Another possible situation may be that the

 accused might divulge the information under Section 27 of the Evidence Act to the
 Investigating Officer at a particular point in
 time when independent witnesses are not
 available. For adhering to the procedure of

 seeking attestation by independent witnesses,
 the Investigating Officer would then be
 required to summon independent witnesses

 and request the accused to repeat the
 information in their presence. At this point in

 time, the accused may either refuse to divulge
 the information given earlier or may oblige

 the Investigating Officer with the
 information, which would then be taken down
 in writing in the presence of the independent
 attesting witnesses. However, there is a
 fundamental glitch in adopting this
 procedure, which would certainly make the
 information, if any, received the second time
 around in the presence of the witnesses,
 inadmissible in evidence. Law is well settled
 by a catena of decisions of the Hon'ble
 Supreme Court, including the judgment in the
 case of Aher Raja Khima v. The State of
 Saurashtra , reported in AIR 1956 SC 217, that ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 31 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 information of a fact already known to the
 Investigating Officer is inadmissible in
 evidence. Thus, in case the Investigating
 Officer, while making an investigation of the

 . accused in his custody, is provided
 information under Section 27 of the Evidence
 Act and soon thereafter, calls the Panchas and

 records the same in their presence, then he
 would be recording the memorandum of
 information already known to him. Such
 information would be inadmissible at the

 outset, and thus, the entire endeavour would
 become nothing short of an exercise in
 futility. (c) There is yet another risk involved, which

 could severely prejudice the accused if the

 information provided by the accused under Section 27 is recorded in the presence of
 independent witnesses. The information
 under Section 27 of the Evidence Act often

 comprises two parts: one being confessional,
 which has to be excluded, and the other,
 which leads to the discovery of an

 incriminating fact and is admissible in
 evidence to the extent of the discovery made

 in pursuance thereof. In case independent
 witnesses are kept present when the

 information is given by the accused, the
 prosecution may make an endeavour to prove
 even the confessional part of the information
 as being an extra-judicial confession made in
 the presence of independent witnesses. There
 may even arise a situation where the
 independent witness present to attest to the
 memorandum prepared under Section 27 of
 the Evidence Act is a Magistrate. In such a
 case, the confessional part of the information
 under Section 27 of the Evidence Act would
 almost assume the character of a confession
 under Section 26 of the Evidence Act, thereby ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 32 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 condemning the accused to face severe
 consequences. There is a high probability of
 this situation arising in cases involving the
 recovery of narcotics where the Investigating

 . Officer gives an option to the accused that be
 searched in the presence of a Magistrate or a
 Gazetted Officer. Contemplating that option to

 be searched in the presence of a Magistrate is
 given, and a search of the accused is
 conducted, and during the process, he is also
 questioned in the presence of the Magistrate. At this time, the accused may provide
 information under Section 27 of the Evidence
 Act to the Investigating Officer, which is
 partly confessional in nature and is taken
 r down in writing and witnessed by the

 Magistrate by adhering to the requirement of
 attestation. In such a situation, the accused
 would be faced with severe consequences
 because the prosecution would then, by lifting

 the prohibition contained in Section 26 of the
 Evidence Act, insist to prove the whole of the
 information as amounting to a confession

 made in the presence of a Magistrate. Thus,
 the requirement seeking attestation of the

 memorandum prepared under Section 27 of
 the Evidence Act does not have any logic or
 rationale behind it." 25. Therefore, the disclosure statement cannot be

 discarded on the ground that independent witnesses were

 not associated. 26. Asif Rehman (PW-2) stated that accused Javed

 and Raman Kapoor came to his shop during the summers of

 2009 in a Maruti Car bearing Registration No. HP-18-6, ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 33 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 which had a damaged registration plate. They told him

 (Asif Rehman) that the vehicle was defective and they did

 . not have the money to repair it. They parked the vehicle at

 Gandhi Park and assured to return the next day. However,

 no one came for 3-4 days. He informed his brother-in-law,

 who told him that the car of his neighbour Bhagat Ram was

 stolen and the accused did not have any vehicle with them. The police came with Bhagat Ram and Firoze Khan. The

 police checked the vehicle and found a purse containing the

 photographs. The police seized the vehicle and took it with

 them. He stated in his cross-examination that people bring

 the vehicle to Saharanpur for repairs. He admitted that the

 defective vehicles are abandoned on the road. He denied

 that he was making a false statement regarding the accused

 Raman Kapoor driving the vehicle. He admitted the

 litigation between him and the family of accused Javed

 during the cross-examination by learned counsel for Javed. 27. It was submitted that he had enmity with the

 family of Javed, and his testimony is not reliable. This

 submission cannot be accepted. He had enmity with the

 accused Javed but none with accused Raman Kapoor. ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 Therefore, his testimony cannot be discarded because of

 enmity with accused Javed Khan. . 28. Firoze Khan (PW-5) stated that he received a

 call from his brother-in-law, Asif Khan, on 15.05.2009,

 informing him that a car registered at Nahan was

 abandoned at Gandhi Park, Saharanpur. He also informed

 that the front registration plate of the car was damaged. He

 informed Bhagat Ram about this fact. He and Bhagat Ram

 went to Saharanpur with the police, where the vehicle was

 recovered at Gandhi Park. The police checked the engine

 and chassis number of the vehicle with the registration

 certificate and seized it vide memo (Ext PW4/A). He stated

 in his cross-examination that he and accused Raman

 Kapoor are residents of the same mohalla. He admitted that

 the younger brother of accused Raman Kapoor used to park

 his motorcycle in the house of accused Raman Kapoor. He

 admitted that accused Raman Kapoor quarrelled with his

 elder brother. He admitted that his sister-in-law was a

 witness in that case . He voluntarily said that she had

 sustained injury to her head. He admitted that Hathi Ki

 Kabar is located near the house of Bhagat Ram, where ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 35 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 people park their vehicles. He admitted that the people

 continue to move on Mall Road till 12:00-1:00 AM. He

 . admitted that the police carry out patrolling duty during

 the night. He stated that the police had obtained his

 signatures on two documents, one at Nahan and one at

 Saharanpur. They returned to Nahan at 1:30-2:00 pm.

 People were moving at Saharanpur when the vehicle was

 seized. They went to the house of Asif, who led them to the

 place of recovery. He was not literate and could not state

 where the memo (Ext.PW4/A) was prepared. He denied that

 he was making a false statement. 29. It was submitted that he had enmity with the

 accused Raman Kapoor and had a reason to depose falsely

 against him (the accused). The mere enmity will not result

 in the rejection of his statement. The Court has to see his

 testimony with utmost care and caution. Even if his

 testimony is seen with due care and caution, there is

 nothing to doubt his testimony. His testimony is duly

 corroborated by the informant, his brother-in-law and

 HHC Jagdish; therefore, the learned Trial Court had rightly

 relied upon the testimony of this witness. ( 2025:HHC:25004 ) 30. HC Ranjeet Singh (PW7) stated that he

 accompanied the informant and Firoze Khan to

 . Saharanpur, where a Maruti car with a damaged front

 registration plate was found parked at Gandhi Park. Registration number HR-18-6 was readable. It was

 identified by the informant. The police checked the chassis

 number and engine number, and they matched with those

 recorded in the registration certificate. One purse having

 two photographs of accused Raman Kapoor and one

 identity Card of Raman Kapoor's father was found in the

 car. These were put in a cloth parcel, and the parcel was

 sealed. Asif Rehman revealed that accused Raman Kapoor

 and Javed Ahmad had visited his shop in a car, and the

 police found accused Raman Kapoor and Javed Ahmad at

 Nahan. Accused Raman produced a key which was used for

 opening the car. He seized the key. Accused Raman Kapoor

 made a disclosure statement that he had concealed a car

 stepney in the jungle, which could be got recovered by him. The accused led the police and the witnesses to the place

 from where the stepney was recovered. Accused Raman

 made a statement that he could show the place from where ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS 37 ( 2025:HHC:25004 )
 the theft was committed and the place where the vehicle

 was parked. He led the police to Mall Road and Gandhi Park. . He prepared the memos of these places. He admitted in his

 cross-examination that memos (Ext. PW1/C and Ext. PW1/E) were prepared at the Police Station, Nahan. He did

 not make any effort to call an independent witness. The

 memo (Ext PW1/D) was prepared at Judda Ka Johar. No

 witness was associated while going towards Judda ka Johar. No witness was also associated at Saharanpur. He admitted

 that the houses and shops are located on the Mall Road, and

 many people move on the Mall Road. He denied that the car

 had not been stolen and that the false case was made

 against the accused. 31. This witness was also cross-examined

 regarding the non-association of independent witnesses. It

 has also been found that the prosecution's case cannot be

 doubted because of the non-association of independent

 witnesses. The accused did not suggest anything in the

 cross-examination that he had any motive to depose

 against the accused, and his testimony cannot be doubted

 simply because he is a police official. ( 2025:HHC:25004 ) 32. Thus, it was duly placed on record that the theft

 of the informant's car had taken place from the Mall Road,

 . Nahan. The accused Raman Kapoor was seen driving a car

 by the witness Asif Khan (PW3) immediately after the theft. The police recovered the car and found a purse containing

 the photographs of the accused, Raman, and the identity

 card of Raman's father. Accused Raman Kapoor made a

 disclosure statement, and the stepney of the car was

 recovered. The accused failed to provide any explanation in

 his statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. or

 during the cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses

 regarding these circumstances. He simply denied the

 prosecution's case and claimed false implication. Section

 114 Illustrations (a) provides that a person found in

 possession of the stolen goods soon after the theft is

 presumed to be a thief or the receiver of the stolen

 property. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Dakkata Balaram Reddy v. State of A.P. , (2023) 19 SCC 461: . (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 29th July 2025

 (Ritu) ::: Downloaded on - 30/07/2025 21:20:28 :::CIS