P. Sathasivam, J. 1) Civil Appeal No. 2924 of 2008 has been filed by Smt. 

Rasila S. Mehta, mother of late Harshad S. Mehta and Civil 

Appeal No. 2915 of 2008 has been filed by Smt. Rina S. Mehta, 1 sister-in-law of late Harshad S. Mehta against the final 

judgment and order dated 26.02.2008 passed by the Special 

Court under the provisions of the Special Court (Trial of 

Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") at Bombay in Misc. Petition Nos. 2 and 1 of 2007 respectively whereby the Special 

Court dismissed their petitions challenging the notification 

dated 04.01.2007 issued by the Custodian exercising powers 

under Section 3(2) of the Act notifying the appellants. 2) Civil Appeal No. 3377 of 2009 has been filed by Smt. 

Jyothi H. Mehta, widow of late Shri Harshad S. Mehta and six 

others against the judgment and order dated 13.03.2009 

passed by the Special Court in approving Report No. 19 of 

2008 filed by the Custodian in respect of outstanding dues 

towards Flat Nos. 32A, 32B, 33, 34A, and 34B on the Third 

Floor and 44A, 44B and 45 on the Fourth Floor together with 

terrace area on the Third Floor and eight car parking space in 

Madhuli Cooperative Housing Society Limited, Worli belonging 

to late Harshad S. Mehta as well as other related notified 

entities of the Harshad Mehta Group. 3) Civil Appeal No. 4764 of 2010 has been filed by Smt. 

Rasila S. Mehta challenging the order dated 07.05.2010 

passed by the Special Court in approving Report No. 23 of 

2009 of the Custodian on outstanding dues of Madhuli 

Cooperative Housing Society Limited, Worli as on 31.03.2009 

towards Flat No. 31 on the Third Floor belonging to her being 

a notified party. 4) Since all the parties in the above appeals are family 

members of late Harshad S. Mehta and the orders challenged 

were of the Special Court, the same are being disposed of by 

the following common judgment. irregularities involving colossal amounts of money were 

committed by certain stock brokers and other persons as also 

by certain banks and financial institutions. The amounts 

involved in the said frauds and/or irregularities were 

estimated to run into several thousand crores. The Central 

Government, therefore, formed an opinion that it was 

necessary to take immediate steps to try offences relating to 3 such transactions in securities and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto. The President of India 

thereupon promulgated an Ordinance on 6th June 1992 known 

as the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions 

in Securities) Ordinance 1992 and the said Ordinance came 

into force on the same day. The said Ordinance with certain 

modifications became the Act when the assent of the President 

was given thereto on 18th August 1992 and the said Act was 

deemed to have come into force on 6th June 1992, namely, the 

date on which the said Ordinance had been promulgated. b) On 6th June, 1992 the Central Government had also 

framed certain rules under the provisions of Section 14 of the 

said Ordinance known as the Special Court (Trial of 

Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Rules, 1992 

(hereinafter referred to as `the Rules'). The said rules came into 

force on the 6th June 1992 and continue in force after the 

enactment of the Act under section 15(2) of the Act and/or Section 24 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. c) The object of the Act, as apparent from the provisions 

thereof, is to ensure that offences relating to securities were 4 expeditiously tried and it, therefore, provides for the 

establishment of a Special Court. The Act also provides that 

an appeal lies from the judgment, sentence or order, not being 

interlocutory order, of the said Special Court to the Supreme 

Court of India both on facts and on law. An important object of 

the said Act is to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amounts 

involved, to punish the guilty in such irregularities or fraud, to 

restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and 

credibility of the banks and financial institutions. d) On 13.05.1992, the Central Bureau of Investigation (in 

short "the CBI") issued freeze orders under Section 102 of the 

Code of Criminal Procedure (in short `the Code) on all the bank 

accounts of Smt. Rasila S. Mehta and Smt. Rina S. Mehta on 

the ground that the appellants are recipients of monies 

diverted by M/s Harshad S. Mehta from banks and financial 

institutions. This was a preventive measure taken by the CBI 

which powers are normally invoked pending investigation to 

bring within their fold, any property which is the subject- matter of an offence. Since then, all the charge-sheets came to 

be filed by the CBI after thorough investigation and trial has 5 been completed in several cases. Based on the provisions of 

the Act, on 08.06.1992, the Custodian notified 29 entities 

except the appellants (Smt. Rasila S. Mehta and Smt. Rina 

S. Mehta) in the Mehta family comprising four brothers, the 

wives of three brothers, their three HUFs, a partnership firm, 

three brokerage firms in the family and 15 corporate entities 

promoted by them. These persons were notified on the basis 

of information/complaint received from the Ministry of 

Finance in which the Janakiraman Committee report was 

cited and relied upon. e) On 25.01.1994, an amendment was carried out in the 

Act, wherein, Section 9-A was inserted to confer civil 

jurisdiction to the Special Court. Smt. Rasila S. Mehta and 

Smt. Rina S. Mehta were active investors and had built up a 

portfolio of investments which has appreciated in value over 

the years, more particularly, during the last three years. They 

own one each of the nine flats at Madhuli Cooperative Housing 

Society Limited which are merged/amalgamated with other 

flats under the occupation of the joint family. The bank 

accounts and shareholdings of these appellants are held 6 jointly where the appellants are the first holders and their 

family members are joint/second holders. Due to the fact that 

joint/second holders are notified entities, the assets of the 

appellants have been treated as attached on and from 

08.06.1992 and the same are being managed by the Custodian 

for the last 15 years. On 21.07.2006, the Custodian preferred 

a common Misc. petition No. 20 of 2006 against Smt. Rasila S. 

Mehta and Smt. Rina S. Mehta seeking relief of a declaration 

that the said appellants are benamis and fronts of late 

Harshad S. Mehta and other notified entities and, therefore, 

their assets should be utilized in discharge of their liabilities. The appellants also filed M.A. No. 291/2006 on 11.09.2007 

seeking relief of a declaration that all the assets belonged to 

them and they were the first holders, namely, bank accounts 

and fixed deposits and the shareholdings may be declared as 

free from attachment. f) On 04.01.2007, the Custodian issued a notification 

notifying both the appellants under Section 3(2) of the Act for 

which a public notice was published in the newspapers on 

06.01.2007. g) On 19.01.2007, Smt. Rina S. Mehta filed Misc. Petition 

No. 1 of 2007 and on 18.06.2007, Smt. Rasila S. Mehta filed 

Misc. Petition No. 2 of 2007 for the relief of de-notification 

under Section 4(2) of the Act. It transpired that the appellants 

were notified on the basis of the alleged complaint by Canbank 

Financial Services Ltd. (in short "Canfina"). On considering 

the materials, the Special Court, by impugned order dated 

26.02.2008, dismissed the petitions filed by the appellants - Smt. Rasila S. Mehta and Smt. Rina S. Mehta. h) Inasmuch as the other two appeals relate to the orders 

passed on the report submitted by the Custodian, there is no 

need to traverse all the details as stated therein. 6) Heard Mr. I.H. Syed, learned counsel for the appellants, 

Mr. Subramonium Prasad, learned counsel for the Custodian, 

Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for 

intervenor/Standard Chartered Bank and Mr. Tushad Cooper, 

learned counsel for intervenor/State Bank of India. 7) Mr. Syed, learned counsel for the appellants after taking us 

through the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules and the 

materials available with the Custodian as well as the 

reasonings of the Special Court raised the following 

contentions: speaking. The validity of a statutory order must be judged by 

a court of law by the reasons mentioned in the order itself and 

a statutory order cannot be explained and supplemented by 

fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise whereas in 

the present case the Special Court accepted the same which is 

contrary to settled law. (ii) Delay of 15 years in passing the order of notification is 

unreasonable. The explanation offered for delay is also 

unacceptable. (iii) Material relied upon in passing the order of notification 

i.e. Canfina's letter dated 28.12.2006 is not supported by an 

affidavit which could not have been relied upon as it is 

contrary to proviso to Rule 2 of the Rules. (iv) Reliance on the reports of Joint Parliamentary Committee, 

Jankiraman Committee, IDG and Chartered Accountants' by 

the Custodian is unacceptable. (v) Pre-decisional hearing by the Custodian was required to be 

given and in the case on hand such opportunity was not 

afforded. (vi) No effective post-decisional hearing as the materials relied 

upon was not supplied in time. (vii) The Special Court erroneously held the transaction to be 

benami in general on the basis of Chartered Accountants' 

reports without examining individual transactions. (viii) The onus to establish the validity, correctness, legality, 

propriety of the notification order is on the Custodian but 

wrongly shifted on the appellants. (ix) Satisfaction of Custodian while passing an order of 

notification should be objective and based on materials as 

provided in the Rules. (x) The Special Court erroneously held that the meaning of the 

phrase "involved an offence" has attained finality by this 10 Court, though the said question was left open. In any event, 

the case of the Custodian was that a sum of Rs. 50 crores was 

diverted by M/s Harshad S. Mehta to the appellants during 

the period 01.04.1990 to 06.06.1992. In such event, monies 

transferred/diverted from the banks/financial institutions can 

only be recovered from the appellants and nothing more. (xi) The jurisdiction of the Special Court is limited to the 

statutory period only, i.e. 01.04.1991 to 06.06.1992. (xii) No interest can be levied on the notified parties as per the 

judgment of this Court in Harshad Shantilal Mehta vs. 

Custodian and Ors. (1998) 5 SCC 1. 8) On the other hand, Mr. Subramonium Prasad, learned 

counsel for the Custodian heavily relying on the circumstances 

for passing the Act, the statement of Objects and Reasons and 

the relevant provisions submitted that: and as per Section 2(d) `Special Court' means "the Special 

Court established under sub-section (1) of Section 5 ." Among 

all the provisions Sections 3 and 4 are relevant which read as 

follows: section (2) of section 3 or any cancellation made under sub- section (1) of section 4 or any other order made by the 

 Custodian in exercise of the powers conferred on him under section 3 or 4 may file a petition objecting to the same within 

 thirty days of the assent to the Special Court (Trial of 

 Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Bill, 1992 by 

 the President before the Special Court where such 

 notification, cancellation or order has been issued before the 

 date of assent to the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating 

 to Transactions in Securities) Bill, 1992 by the President and 

 where such notification, cancellation or order has been 

 issued on or after that date, within thirty days of the 

 issuance of such notification, cancellation or order, as the 

 case may be; and the Special Court after hearing the parties, 

 may make such order as it deems fit." Section 9 speaks about procedure and powers of Special Court 

and by way of an amendment with effect from 25th January, 17 1994, Section 9-A was inserted to confer jurisdiction, powers, 

authority and procedure of Special Court in respect of civil 

matters. As per Section 10 , against any judgment, sentence or 

order, not being interlocutory in nature of the Special Court, 

an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court both on facts and on 

law. Like Sections 3 and 4 , another important section is Section 11 which reads as under: section(2) of Sec. 3 to the Central Government or 

 any State Government or any local authority. (b) all amounts due from the person so notified by the 

 Custodian to any bank or financial institution or 

 mutual fund ; and (c) any other liability as may be specified by the 

 Special Court from time to time." Section 13 makes it clear that the provisions of the Act shall 

have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith 

contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any 

instrument having effect by virtue of any law, other than this 

Act, or in any decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other 18 authority. Section 14 empowers the Central Government to 

make rules for carrying out the provisions of the Act. 14) Based on the above statutory provisions, let us consider 

the claim of the appellants, stand taken by the Custodian and 

the reasonings of the Special Court in passing the impugned 

orders. 15) Discussion: The objects of the Act are two fold: (a) to punish the guilty, and (b) to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved. Sub-section (2) of Section 4 , however, provides for a hearing as 

regards correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a 

person in this behalf, in the event an appropriate application 

therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such 

notification. Section 5 provides for establishment of the 

Special Court. Section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction of 

Special Court. A perusal of the Act makes it clear that any 

prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub-section 

(2) of Section 3 pending in any court is required to be 

transferred to the Special Court. Section 9 provides for the 

procedure and powers of the Special Court. Section 9-A , 

which was inserted by Act 24 of 1994 with effect from 

25.01.1994, confers all such jurisdiction, powers and 

authority as were exercisable, immediately before such 

commencement by any civil court in relation to the matter 21 specified therein. The Act provides for stringent measures. It 

was enacted for dealing with an extraordinary situation in the 

sense that any person who was involved in any offence relating 

to transaction of any security could be notified, whereupon all 

his properties stood attached. The provision contained in the 

Act being stringent in nature, the purport and intent thereof 

must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it 

seeks to achieve. Provisions with regard to Attachment 19) The vires of Sections 3(2) , 3(3) and 3(4) of the Ordinance 

was challenged before the High Court of Bombay in Writ 

Petition No. 1547 of 1992 Hitesh S. Mehta vs. Union of India 

& Anr., 1992 (3) Bomb. C.R. 716. It was argued before the 

Bombay High Court that there is no provision for hearing at 

the stage of notification i.e. Section 3(2) and also at the stage 

of attachment of all properties i.e., Section 3(3) . Therefore, the 

provisions are contrary to the principles of natural justice and 

be struck down. The Division Bench of the High Court in 

paragraph 8 of the said judgment observed as follows: nor is there any provision for any reasoned order being 

passed by the Custodian at the time when he notifies such a 

person. There is, however, a further sub-Section, namely, 

sub-Section (4) of Section 3 which provides as follows: 21) In paragraphs 45, 46 and 47 of Jyoti Harshad Mehta 

& Ors. vs. Custodian & Ors. (2009) 10 SCC 564 this Court 

held as under: 22) In Ashwin S. Mehta vs. Custodian & Ors. (2006) 2 SCC 

385 in paragraph 15, this Court observed as under: 23) Section 9-A was inserted by an amendment dated 

25.01.1994 conferring jurisdiction, powers, authority and 

procedure of Special Court in civil matters. In view of this 

amendment, this Court in paragraph 41 of Harshad Mehta 's 

case (supra) observed as under: 24) This Court in Ashwin S. Mehta 's case (supra), in 

paragraphs 51 and 52 observed as under: 25) As regards Section 11 , the properties which stand 

attached by the Custodian are used to discharge the liabilities 

in full as far as may be in the order prescribed under Section 

11(2) of the Special Court Act. There is nothing in the Act 

which suggests that only such properties which belong to the 

notified party and which have been acquired by the use of 

tainted funds alone can be attached for the purposes of 

distribution under Section 11 of the Act. Section 3(3) postulates that on and from the date of notification all 

properties movable, immovable or both, belonging to the 27 notified party on and from the date of the notification stand 

attached. Attachment of all the properties in terms of Section 

3(3) of the Act is automatic. The said section does not provide 

any qualification that the properties which are liable to be 

attached should relate to the illegal transactions in securities 

in respect of which the Act was brought in force. Had the 

Parliament intended otherwise it would have specifically 

provided for the same as was done under the Smugglers and 

Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 

1976 . A reading of Section 11 of the Act further provides that 

all the properties which stand attached to the Special Court 

under Section 3(3) are available for distribution under Section 

11 of the Act. There is again nothing which suggests that the 

distribution must be restricted only to sale of such properties 

which have been acquired by use of tainted funds. The 

statutory period is irrelevant for the attachment of properties 

and sale of the same. All properties which are attached would 

be liable to be sold for redemption of liabilities till the date of 

notification under Section 11 of the Act. 26) The Custodian filed Misc. Petition No. 20 of 2006 on 

21.07.2006 against the appellants for the recovery of the 

money alleged to have been advanced by the three brokerage 

firms i.e., M/s Harshad S. Mehta, M/s Ashwin Mehta and M/s 

J.H. Mehta to the appellants and prayed that the appellants be 

declared benami/front of late Harshad S. Mehta and/or his 

group, and the assets be utilized for discharging the liabilities 

of late Harsahd S. Mehta and/or his group. On 04.01.2007, 

the Custodian notified the appellants and subsequently on 

23.01.2007 withdrew the said M.P. No. 20 of 2006 after the 

notification. 27) The appellants filed Misc. Petition Nos. 1 & 2 of 2007 

challenging the validity of the Notification dated 04.01.2007 

before the Special Court. The Special Court dismissed the 

said petitions and granted the prayer in Misc. Petition No.20 of 

2006 filed by the Custodian. 28) This Court in L.S. Synthetics (supra) in paragraphs 35, 

36 and 42 held as under: 29) The same position is reiterated in para 56 of the 

judgment in Jyoti Harshad Mehta 's case (supra) wherein this 

Court held that,

 "......It is true that to such an extent all properties would be 

 liable to be sold which are needed for redemption and not 

 beyond the same. What should be kept uppermost in the 

 mind of the Court is to see that the liabilities are discharged 

 and not beyond the same. It is with that end in view that 

 the powers of the Special Court contained in Sections 9A and 11 must be construed." 30) Whether there are sufficient provisions for pre and 

post decisional hearing thereby ensuring Rules of Natural 

Justice? Section 3(2) of the Special Courts Act confer power to 

Custodian to notify a person in the Official Gazette on being 

satisfied on information received that such person was 

involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities 

during the statutory period 01.04.1991 to 06.06.1992. Though Mr. Syed contended that the appellants are entitled to 

hearing even at the stage of Section 3(2) , we are unable to 

accept his claim. Section 3(2) does not give any right of 31 personal hearing to the person being notified. In the absence 

of any such right there is no pre-decisional hearing The 

provisions of the Act do not provide for a pre-decisional 

hearing before notification but contains an impeccable milieu 

for a fair and just post decisional hearing. The fact that it does 

not provide for a pre-decisional hearing is not contrary to the 

rules of Natural Justice because the decision of the Custodian 

to notify does not ipso facto takes away any right of the person 

thus notified or imposes any duty on him. This also has to be 

read in the light of the judgment of Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India, (1981) 1 SCC 664 which reads as under: (Emphasis supplied) 31) Attachment of property is a natural consequence of 

notification and not sale of the property. The power to order a 

sale of the property lies only with the Special Court under Section 11 and at this instance where the notified person can 

be adversely affected, Section 4(2) provides that any person 

aggrieved by the notification can file a petition objecting the 

same within 30 days of the date of the issuance of the 

notification. The Special Court is presided over by a sitting 

Judge of the High Court. All material before the Custodian is 

placed before the Special Court which independently analyses 

all the material while deciding the application filed by the 

notified party challenging the notification. This amounts to 33 post decisional hearing satisfying the principles of natural 

justice. Also a pre-decisional hearing would frustrate the 

entire purpose of the Act. If there is time given to Show Cause 

why a person should not be notified, that time could 

practically be utilized to further divert the funds, if any, so 

that it becomes even more difficult to trace it. 32) Notification of the appellants: Similarly, the Joint Parliamentary Committee established to 

enquire into the irregularities in securities and bank 

transactions also found out the involvement of the family 

members of Harshad Mehta. Para 17.21 of the Report reads 

as under: In accordance with the recommendations of the Joint 

Parliamentary Committee a group known as Inter Disciplinary 

Group (IDG) for tracing the end use of funds was set up by the 

Reserve Bank of India. The findings of the IDG read as under: Rejecting the said objection, this Court held that though based 38 on the statements of PWs 2 & 3, members of NGOs the 

accused persons cannot be convicted but taking into account 

their initiation, work done, interview with the children, 

interaction with the children at the shelter homes which laid 

the foundation for the investigation and to that extent their 

statements and actions are reliable and acceptable. By 

applying the same analogy, inasmuch as the scam relates to 

accounts and money transactions by way of transfer of shares 

through nationalized banks and financial institutions, various 

committees were appointed by the Union of India which 

collected relevant materials and unearthed the persons 

involved, hence the Custodian and the Special Court are 

justified in relying on those reports in order to ascertain the 

correctness or otherwise of the transactions. Accordingly, we 

reject the objection of the counsel for the appellants relating to 

the report of various Committees mentioned above. 35) The Special Court, vide its order dated 03.08.1993 

allowed the application of the Custodian for appointing 

Auditor. The Minutes of the Order read as under: 36) The Special Court vide its order dated 03.02.1994 

appointed M/s Kalyaniwalla & Mistry, M/s Kapadia Damania 

& Co. and M/s Natwarlal Vepari & Co., Chartered Accountants 

firms for the purposes of preparing Statements of Accounts 40 and liabilities of the notified parties i.e. the Harshad Mehta 

Group for the period 01.04.1990 to 08.06.1992. 37) It was the grievance of the Custodian that the notified 

parties were not at all cooperating in the process of auditing. The accounts of the notified parties where significant diversion 

of funds had taken place were not completed due to non- cooperation of members of M/s Harshad Mehta Group. When 

their non-cooperation was brought to the notice of the Special 

Court, the members of the Harshad Mehta Group had given an 

undertaking to fully cooperate with the Auditors. Rasila S. 

Mehta, the appellant herein had filed an application being 

M.A. No. 467/1999 for lifting the attachment over assets 

which she was owning jointly with the other members of the 

family. In the said application, the Custodian filed a reply 

highlighting the complete non-cooperation of the group in 

completing the accounts. 38) The important aspect is that the appellants have not 

explained the source of their income. The outstanding Income 

tax from the appellants for the Assessment Years 1988-89 to 

1993-94 is as under: The appellants are house-wives having no independent source 

of income. It is impossible for such persons to have such huge 

amounts of money unless they were the beneficiaries of 

monies diverted by late Harshad Mehta and his other family 

members who were notified and firms belonging to the 

Harshad Mehta Group. The appellants have not been able to 

reveal their source of income either to the Custodian or to the 

Income Tax authorities. 39) It is relevant to point out that in a letter dated 

22.03.1996 addressed to the Assistant Commissioner of 

Income Tax the appellant - Rasila P. Mehta has stated as 

under: Under this arrangement for transactions undertaken by me 

at these respective brokerage firms my account is debited 

and credited for each and every transaction, i.e. for every 

purchase made by me my account gets debited and for every 

sale effected by me my account with these brokerage firms 

gets credited. I state that barring a few exceptions payments 

for these transactions have not been exchanged on a 

transaction to transaction basis and the account is in the 

nature of a running account. I state that for the borrowings 

effected under both the methods. I have agreed to pay 

interest to the lender. I state that the same is computed on 

the basis of deliveries performed for purchase and sale of 

shares. I state that in cases where I have purchased the 

shares for delivery and the delivery has not been tendered to 

me, for the purposes of computation of interest the debit will 

not be reckoned. I say that thus on the net outstanding 

balance after giving credit to each party on account of non- delivery of share the amount payable at the end of month is 

arrived at which is mentioned for the computation of interest 

(not on compounded basis). I state that as such interest is 

payable on the amounts borrowed by me and the same 

constitutes my expense. I humbly submit that this expense 

is allowable as a deduction from my taxable income. In 

support of my above and other related contentions I am also 

pleased to enclose confirmation letters of the three brokerage 

firms of M/s Harshad S. Mehta, M/s Ashwin S. Mehta and 

M/s J.H. Mehta. I further submit that due to course of 

events and multiple raids and our groups accounting system 

having gone haywire and the delivery status of all the 

transactions remaining unascertained we have not been able 

to precisely compute my interest liability for the earlier as 

well as the present year. 5) I state that I follow an accrual method of accounting 

 for all my income as well as expenses which system of 

 accounting is being followed by me for a number of years. I 

 state that pending finalization of my payable figure for which 

 effort is being made to arrive at the figure and on the basis of 

 the minimum amount due by me I have made the provision 

 of interest payable by me in my books of accounts and the 

 extract of my account in this regard is being forwarded 

 separately to your kindself. I submit that since my books of 

 accounts are in the process of being drawn I am not in a 

 position to make a provision of the precise figures of interest 

 amount much as I would like to do. I submit that in this 

 regard the respective brokerage firms have to assist and 

 furnish substantial particulars. I further state that the 

 provision made by me is in fact on a conservative basis 

 though the interest payable by me would be higher that the 

 provision. I humbly request your kindself to take note of 

 above and grant me a deduction of the same from the 

 income that your kindself is arriving for the present year. In 

 case your kindself is not inclined to accept my submissions 

 or allow me the deduction of above expenses then kindly give 

 me an opportunity to make further representation in this 

 regard more so as it vitally affects determination of my 

 taxable income". 40) A perusal of the above letter shows that there was no 

proper maintenance of accounts and there was no cooperation 

at all. Even, late Harshad Mehta in his letter and declarations 

to the Income Tax Authorities in which the appellant Rasila 

Mehta is a signatory had admitted that the family is a joint 

Hindu family where all are living together and that the 

business is such that it requires very close control at the 

operational level. 41) It is relevant to note that in a letter dated 21.01.1991 late 

Harshad S. Mehta informed the following particulars about 

source of payments for acquisition of flats in Madhuli, Worli by 

the entities of his family to the Deputy Director of Income Tax 

(Investigation), Mumbai. 42) Another important aspect relates to final declaration 

made by Harshad S. Mehta and all his family members 

including Rasila S. Mehta under Section 132(4) of the Income 45 Tax Act, 1961 . The following material from his statement 

dated 24.01.1991 is relevant: 43) It is also useful to refer the letter of Smt. Rasila S. Mehta 

dated 25.06.2007 addressed to Mukund M. Chitale & Co., 46 Chartered Accountants, Mumbai wherein she admitted that 

during the relevant period i.e. in 1990s she and all her family 

members actively associating in the brokerage firms and 

companies promoted by them jointly. She also admitted that 

she had a running account with brokerage firms of M/s 

Harshad S. Mehta, M/s Ashwin Mehta and M/s J.H. Mehta. 44) All the above details clearly show their association with 

brokerage firms being handled by Harshad S. Mehta and also 

their interest and entitlement in the transactions of their joint 

family business. 45) The firms of M/s Kalyaniwalla & Mistry, M/s Kapadia 

Damania & Co. and M/s Natwarlal Vepari & Co. did not 

complete the audit and as permitted by the Special Court, vide 

Order dated 16.10.2003, the Custodian was permitted to 

appoint another Auditor. The Custodian, vide its Order dated 

05.11.2003, appointed M/s Vyas & Vyas Chartered 

Accountants to audit the accounts and also to investigate 

fraudulent and illegal transactions entered into by M/s 

Harshad S. Mehta Group and his notified entities as referred 

to in Janakiraman Committee Report, IDG Report and reports 47 based on the audit of the banks conducted by the RBI and the 

charge-sheet filed in the Special Court. M/s Vyas & Vyas 

submitted their report in respect of Harshad S. Mehta Group. Even in the said report, Vyas & Vyas pointed out the complete 

non-cooperation on the part of the appellants and the group 

while auditing the accounts. In the report, on review of un-

audited accounts of M/s Harshad S. Mehta regarding the 

diversion of funds it was observed as under: 46) On a complaint, filed by Canbank Financial Services Ltd. (wholly owned subsidiary of Canara Bank), the Custodian 

notified the Appellants on 04.01.2007. The appellants filed 

petitions challenging the order of notification under Section 

4(2) of the Act. The Special Court looked into all the materials 

including the Audit Report submitted by M/s Vyas & Vyas. A 

summary of the accounts produced by M/s Vyas & Vyas is as 

under: SUMMARY

M/s Harshad S. Mehta

Opening Balance as on 01.04.1990

ADD: 3227047.30 i) Shares purchased 275393709.50 ii) Funds transferred 110184616.44

 Total debits 388805373.24

LESS CREDITS: Ledger Account of Mrs. Rina S. Mehta for the period from 1st April, 

1990 to 8th June, 1992 in the books of accounts of various entities 

of Harshad Mehta Group: The contention of the appellants that since they have not 

been charged for any offence, they cannot be notified under 

the Act. According to the appellants, the phrase "involved in 

the offence" could only mean "accused of the offence" and 

since they are not charged with any offence they can not be 

notified. In construing the above mentioned words which are 

used in association with each other, the rule of construction 

noscitur a sociis may be applied. It is a legitimate rule of 

construction to construe words in an Act of Parliament with 

reference to words found in immediate connection with them. The actual order of these three words in juxtaposition 

indicates that meaning of one takes colour from the other. The 56 rule is explained differently: 'that meaning of doubtful words 

may be ascertained by reference to the meaning of words 

associated with it. (vide Ahmedabad Teachers' Association 

vs. Administrative Officer , AIR 2004 SC 1426). 48) Therefore, in the present case the nature of "offence", in 

which the appellants are allegedly involved, is to be taken into 

consideration. The Act does not create an offence for which a 

particular person has to be charged or held guilty. Thus the 

phrase "involved in the offence" would not mean "accused of 

the offence". Also, the appellants could have been reasonably 

suspected to have been involved in the offence after 

consideration of the various reports of the Janakiraman 

Committee, Joint Parliamentary Committee and the Inter 

Disciplinary Group (IDG); and also the fact that 28 members of 

the M/s Harshad S. Mehta group including his family 

members/entities were notified under the Special Act Ordinance itself. The above factual matrix was sufficient for 

the satisfaction of the Custodian to notify the Appellants. The 

object of the Act is not merely to bring the offender to book but 

also to recover what are ultimately public funds. Even if there 57 is a nexus between a third party, an offender and/or property 

the third party can also be notified. The word "involved" in Section 3(2) of the Special Court Act has to be interpreted in 

such a manner so as to achieve the purpose of the Act. This 

Court in Ashwin S. Mehta vs. Custodian & Ors. , (2006) 2 

SCC 386 has observed as under: 49) In Jyoti H Mehta & Ors. vs. Custodian & Ors. , (2009) 

10 SCC 564, this Court from para 33 to 38 has held that the Special Court Act is a special statute and is a complete code in 

itself. The purpose and object for which it was created was to 

punish the persons who were involved in the act for criminal 

misconduct in respect of defrauding banks and financial 

institutions and its object was to see that the properties of 

those who were involved shall be appropriated for the 

discharge of liabilities of not only banks and financial 

institutions but also other governmental agencies. In 58 construing the statute of this nature the court should not 

always adhere to a literal meaning but should construe the 

same, keeping in view in the larger public interest. For the 

said purpose, the court may also take recourse to the basic 

rules of interpretation, namely, ut res magis valeat quam 

pereat to see that a machinery must be so construed as to 

effectuate the liability imposed by the charging section and to 

make the machinery workable. The statutes must be 

construed in a manner which will suppress the mischief and 

advance the object the legislature had in view. A narrow 

construction which tends to stultify the law must not be 

taken. Contextual reading is a well-known proposition of 

interpretation of statute. The clauses of a statute should be 

construed with reference to the context vis-`-vis the other 

provisions so as to make a consistent enactment of the whole 

statute relating to the subject-matter. Furthermore, even in 

relation to a penal statute any narrow and pedantic, literal 

and lexical construction may not always be given effect to. The law would have to be interpreted having regard to the 

subject-matter of the offence and the object of the law it seeks 59 to achieve. The purpose of the law is not to allow the offender 

to sneak out the meshes of law. The courts will reject the 

construction which will defeat the plain intention of the 

legislature even though there may be some inexactitude in the 

language used. Reducing the legislation futility shall be 

avoided and in a case where the intention of the legislature 

cannot be given effect to, the courts would accept the bolder 

construction for the purpose of bringing about an effective 

result. The courts, when rule of purposive construction is 

gaining momentum, should be very reluctant to hold that 

Parliament has achieved nothing by the language it used when 

it is tolerably plain what it seeks to achieve. 50) Whether Canfina is a Financial Institution and 

whether the complaint filed by Canfina is invalid? The complaint has been received from Canfina which is a 

100% subsidiary of Canara Bank, a nationalized bank. The 

term financial institution has not been defined under the Act. It became necessary to enact the Special Court Act because of 

the large scale irregularities which came to light as a result of 

the investigations by the Reserve Bank of India into the affairs 60 of various banks and financial institutions whose monies were 

siphoned out. Thus the Statement of Objects and Reasons 

makes it clear that the purpose and the object of the Act was 

to recover and return monies to those banks and financial 

institutions from whom the monies were siphoned out. It is 

thus clear that the bodies which were sought to be covered 

were the banks and financial institutions whose affairs were 

investigated into by the Reserve Bank of India. The 

investigation was conducted by the Reserve Bank of India 

through Janakiraman Committee; the Joint Parliamentary 

Committee, and the Inter Disciplinary Group. The affairs of 

Canfina were also investigated by the various committees as a 

financial institution. It has come to light that there were large 

scale siphoning out of monies from Canfina also as held by the 

Special Court in its order dated 25.06.1997 in the matter of 

Fairgrowth Financial Services Vs. Andhra Bank in Misc. Petition No. 222 of 1996. 51) It is the argument of learned counsel for the appellants 

that Canfina should not be treated as a Financial Institution 

after the rejection of the Reserve Bank of India to consider 61 Canfina as a Financial Institution. But this straight jacket 

definition should be applied to the provisions of other Acts like 

the Debt Recovery Act, the Companies Act, the Securitisation 

and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of 

Security Interest Act, 2002 etc. The term "Financial 

Institution" for the purposes of this Act should be interpreted 

in accordance with the Statement of Objects and Reasons of 

the Act. 52) Thus, at the very inception of this Act are the 

investigations by the Reserve Bank of India and these 

investigations were carried on by the Janakiraman Committee. The Act was intended to be applied to the workings of the 

banks and financial institutions (though not covered by the 

strict definition of the term but involved in the securities scam 

of 1992) into whose affairs the Janakiraman Committee had 

investigated. Canfina, was one such non-banking financial 

institution that Janakiraman Committee had investigated and 

thus it was meant to be covered under the Act. 53) These sources of information have been illustrated in 

Rule 2 of the Rules, which reads as under: Provided that the information or complaint sent by any 

 person referred to in clauses (e) and (f) shall not be 

 entertained by the Custodian if it is not accompanied by an 

 affidavit signed by that person and duly verified by a 

 Magistrate or a Notary Public." Thus the claim of Canfina falls under Section 11(2)(b) of the 

Act and their complaint falls under Rule (2)(b). Thus the fact 

that it was not accompanied by an affidavit signed by that 

person and duly verified by a Magistrate or a Notary Public, 

does not make it an inappropriate complaint for consideration 

by the Custodian. 54) Further, Rule 3 illustrates situations whereby the 

Custodian may reject a certain complaint which is not 

accompanied by copies of documents referred to in the 63 information or complaint, or is vague or does not contain the 

name and address of the sender. This rule also does not make 

it mandatory on the Custodian to reject a complaint if it does 

not accompany the above details. If the material information 

or the documents received by the Custodian are sufficient in 

his opinion, to reveal that a person is involved in an offence 

referred to in sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act, he may 

proceed to notify the name of the person under that sub- section. Thus the satisfaction of the Custodian is of a 

subjective nature and is not violative of Natural Justice. The 

power to deal with the property ultimately lies with the Special 

Court. 55) In view of the same, we are in entire agreement with the 

conclusion arrived at by the Special Court and unable to 

accept any of the contentions raised by counsel for the 

appellants. 56) Claims for maintenance, repair charges, interest and 

penalty for belated payment (Civil Appeal Nos. 3377 of 2009 

and 4764 of 2010) 64 With regard to the above appeals filed against the orders 

of the Special Court approving their report of the Custodian for 

realization of certain amounts payable to the Society towards 

repairs and maintenance charges, interest and penalty for 

belated payment, learned counsel for the appellants again 

raised various objections, inasmuch as the claim of the 

Custodian depends upon the outcome of the other appeals i.e. 

Civil Appeal Nos. 2924 of 2008 and 2915 of 2008 and in view 

of our conclusion on these appeals, we are not inclined to go 

into all those details once again. Since we agree with the 

claim of the Custodian and various steps taken by him and 

the ultimate order of the Special Court in the normal 

circumstance, present appeals are also to be dismissed. We 

have already noted that Smt. Jyoti H. Mehta and six other 

family members of late Harshad S. Mehta were notified under 

the Act. Upon enforcement of the aforesaid Act, all the 

properties of late Harshad S. Mehta and his family members, 

including the six appellants in Civil Appeal No. 3377 of 2009 

apart from other corporate entities stood attached by the 

Custodian. As a consequence thereof, all eight residential 65 properties/flats of the appellants, namely, residential flat Nos. of 32A, 32B, 33, 34A, 34B, 44A, 44B and 45 in the Madhuli 

Cooperative Housing Society Limited at Dr. Anne Besant Road, 

Worli, Mumbai continue to remain attached under the Act by 

the Custodian. Since the aforesaid eight residential properties 

remain attached with the Custodian their upkeep/repair is 

essential so that the market value of the said attached 

properties does not get depreciated and that they may fetch 

best market value as and when the same are permitted to be 

sold by the Special Court so as to pay the liabilities of the 

Government, Banks, Financial Institutions as well as other 

decree holders under the provisions of Section 11(2) of the Act. 57) It was highlighted by the Custodian that as per the rules 

and bye-laws of the Cooperative Housing Societies in Mumbai, 

which are incorporated under the provisions of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act , all the owners of the 

residential properties/flats, as the members of the Housing 

Society are liable to pay such amount as may be determined 

by the Society towards the upkeep, maintenance and repairs 

of the flats as well as common areas and amenities in the 66 housing complex. In view of the same, the Cooperative 

Housing Societies are entitled to recover all the arrears and 

charges from the members who have not paid the society in 

time. 58) The appellants herein are notified parties who are the 

owners of the attached properties and have failed to pay to the 

Madhuli Cooperative Housing Society Limited their 

contribution towards the maintenance charges, interest 

thereon and the charges incurred towards the repair of the 

attached property by the Society. The total dues demanded by 

Madhuli Cooperative Housing Society Limited vide its letter 

dated 12.03.2009 relating to the eight attached properties in 

question is Rs.1,87,97,011/-. The Custodian has furnished 

break-up of the same as follows: Considering the fact that the appellants are agitating the 

matter at the hands of the Custodian, the Special Court and 

before this Court, we feel that the appellants need not be 

burdened with interest and penal charges for non-payment of 

maintenance and repair charges to the society. Accordingly, 

while sustaining the claim of the Custodian as approved by 

the Special Court in view of the reasons mentioned above, we 

clarify that the Custodian is not permitted to collect interest 

and penalty charges from the arrears of maintenance and 

repair charges. This position is also clear from the decision of 

this Court in Harshad Shantilal Mehta vs. Custodian & 

Ors , (1998) 5 SCC 1. The Custodian is free to adjust the 69 amounts deposited by the appellants on the orders of this 

Court or the Special Court. With the above direction, the 

impugned order in both the appeals is modified to the limited 

extent. 63) In the light of the above discussion, we do not find any 

merit in Civil Appeal Nos. 2924 of 2008 and 2915 of 2008 and 

accordingly they are dismissed. Civil Appeal Nos. 3377 of 

2009 and 4764 of 2010 are disposed of granting the relief to 

the extent mentioned in para 62. No order as to costs in all 

the appeals. ...........................................J. 

 (P. SATHASIVAM) 

 

 ..........................................J. 

 (DR. B.S. CHAUHAN) 

NEW DELHI; MAY 6, 2011.