Compelled by Twitter India’s arbitrary enforcement of its content policies, numerous Indian users are now moving to to Mastodon, a free, open-source platform ad-free decentralised platform that many are hailing as a nicer, more civilised alternative to Twitter.

But there are significant drawbacks to the system that need to be considered.

“Though, the Mastodon.social instance is growing in numbers and might be one of the largest, the real advantages of Mastodon will be tested when users from India start hosting their own instances and shift to a proper decentralized model. The Mastodon.social instance in the past has stopped accepting new users,” an SFLC.in spokesperson told MediaNama.

Mastodon also offers several anti-harassment tools that are different from Twitter, Facebook:

Read More: Indians move to Mastodon: A primer to the platform

“Though decentralized social media platforms like Mastodon offer great advantages due to their free and open source nature and non-commercial interests, they might not be able to completely solve the problem of hate speech/ abusive content online,” the SFLC.in spokesperson explained. Here are some of the constraints of Mastodon that need to be kept in mind:

This is to clarify that the accounts of Shri @RahulGandhi , Smt. @priyankagandhi or that of INC India on Social Media platform, Mastodon are not authentic.

— Congress (@INCIndia) November 8, 2019

MediaNama’s editor, Nikhil Pahwa, asked this question on the instance mstdn.social and got a few responses, including one from Rochko. Here are the abbreviated responses:

Q: After the platform scales up and someone toots a revenge porn video that’s boosted across instances: – How will Mastodon deal with it? – How will an aggrieved party get justice? – How will an instance deal with it? – What can a govt do? What can’t it do? – Will shutting down an instance be an option if it refuses to take down video? What will users on that instance, who haven’t committed a crime do? — Nikhil Pahwa, MediaNama

A: “If origin instance deletes the video, everyone else automatically deletes it too. If not, the instances can delete their copies manually via mod tools. Instances are technically websites like any other, so the same tools are available for taking them down (domain registrar, hosting provider). Those depend on jurisdiction, of course. If an instance announces shutdown ahead of time users can export their data and move followers to a different account on another instance.” — Eugen Rochko , founder of Mastodon

Other users gave these answers, the following options also emerged:

(Answers included above are from Shashank Mohan and @ [email protected] .)

***Correction (November 11 10:51 am): SMTP, an email protocol, had been erroneously written as SMPT. Article was originally published on November 8 at 8:19 pm.

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event