SHAJI P. CHALY, J

 This Public Interest Litigation is filed by an Advocate, seeking

to protect, the interest of the community of lawyers, and violation

of the fundamental rights of the public at large regarding their rights

to be kept informed about the current social, political, economic,

cultural and other topics and important issues, to enable them to

understand and form an opinion, how they are managed by

Government and administration including but not limited to the

important judicial pronouncements. Basically, petitioner wants a

guideline to be formed by this court to regulate the activities of the

print and electronic media. 2. According to the petitioner, honest and truthful

representation of the events from time to time is envisaged in the

scheme of the Constitution of India. In a democratic set up, citizens

must be able to form their own opinion, comments and view points

on such matters and events that affect their future. The right to

freedom of speech and expression contained in Article 19 of the

Constitution of India is not absolute as it is bound by sub-clause (2).

According to the petitioner, deliberate planting of lies, repeated

broadcast of news to malign the image of judiciary, government W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :3: functionaries, police force, political leaders including but not limited

to Prime Minister, Chief Minister and other Ministers at the will,

whims and fancies without personally verifying the correctness or

source in violation of broadcasting ethics exceed the scheme of Article 19 of the Constitution of India, thus creating hindrances in

discharging duties of functionaries at the critical positions. It is also

stated that the present acts of the media violates the principle of

consideration of innocence until proved guilty and the media

according to their political or other socio-economic affiliation

proclaim people as guilty to generate negative opinion on people of

their target in violation of fundamental rights of the targeted

victims. It is submitted that such conduct on the part of the media

not only creates unrest in the community, but also affects the

credibility of the news broadcasted to put the public at large in a

great dilemma as to what to believe and what not. Thus, according

to the petitioner, the news and opinions published by the media

houses infringe the fundamental rights of the citizens to know the

truth and allow some unscrupulous people to indulge in cyber

bullying on social media platform with the support of the

unauthenticated opinions published by the media houses and cause

irreparable damage to the dignity and credibility of certain

personnel. Moreover, most of the media houses are engaged in

spreading news of their interest to disintegrate community by W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :4: creating political and communal polarisation in the society. It is

submitted that due to such conduct on the part of the media

houses, the right to privacy which is a fundamental right protecting

the inner sphere of the individual from interference of both the

State and non-State actors and the freedom of the individuals to

make autonomous choices in life are materially affected. That

apart, it is submitted that the media houses are proclaiming the

names of the persons not even named in the FIR, and stories are

being planted to create suspicion in the minds of the public at large.

Therefore, such an act would amount to contempt of court, since

the news might prejudice the judiciary. The sum and substance of

the contention advanced by the petitioner is that the legitimacy of

such publication is questionable as criminals are not punished

according to their political affiliation or religion or caste and making

false and baseless allegations against the elected functionaries,

Chief Minister, Ministers or Prime Minister would amount to

contempt and legitimacy of such unfounded allegations are doubtful.

It is also stated that there is no rational connection between

allegations and the report published. Reputation, being a

fundamental right, the State must protect the same from

unscrupulous media houses. The victim cannot be expected to

chase down and clear his name after a long battle once his

reputation is maligned as most of the individuals would not have W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :5: resources to fights it out, contents the petitioner. However, it is

submitted that the law cannot permit infringement of fundamental

rights at will, only because a victim is not coming forward to file a

complaint and therefore, it is necessary that appropriate guidelines

are formed and ensure the media houses to follow such guidelines

in the interest of the pubic at large. Various examples are cited by

the petitioner which created repercussions and adverse

consequences in the trial of various political, social, sensitive, and

controversial cases, and based on such aspects, it is submitted that

unless the media plays focussed role in the interest of the nation as

a whole, it will damage the justice delivery system of the country

destroying trust reposed in the judiciary by the common man in a

systematic manner. Therefore, unless necessary interventions are

made, one of the important pillars of the democracy can crumble at

the hands of some unscrupulous media personnel engaged in the

guise of journalism. Therefore, prima facie, there is failure of the

sovereign to ensure the protection of fundamental rights of general

public and the rights guaranteed under Articles 19 and 21 of the

Constitution of India r/w the Indian Penal Code and the Contempt of

Courts Act, and so also various guidelines and judgements

enunciated by the Apex Court. 3. With the above background facts, certain specific instances

are pointed out by the petitioner to substantiate the contention put W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :6: forth in the writ petition, that, it was reported on 5 th July, 2020, the

customs officials at Thiruvananthapuram Airport seized gold

weighing 30 kg. from diplomatic cargo addressed to the United Arab

Emirates (UAE) Consulate in Kerala and the officials caught one Mr.

Sarith Nair, a former Public Relations Officer at the Consulate using

a fake ID to collect the baggage with the smuggled gold trying to

pass himself of as someone who could enjoy diplomatic immunity

with respect to the cargo. It is assertively stated that diplomatic

cargo normally cannot be checked by customs officials. But, the

customs officials had received sanction from the Government to

examine the baggage, which was a news revealed by the Customs

Commissioner to the Press. It is the case of the petitioner that the

Customs officials were tipped off, that gold might be hidden in the

cargo and suspect that there is a well organised syndicate behind

the smuggling racket. At the time of interrogation by the customs

officials, according to the petitioner, the aforesaid Sarith Nair is

reported to have said that he was friendly with one Ms. Swapna

Suresh, that she was involved in the gold smuggling operations,

and according to the petitioner, the Customs officials say that it is

Swapna Suresh who forged the documents and would allow them to

claim diplomatic immunity over the cargo. It is also pointed out

that the said lady is involved in a forgery case against an Air India

employee. However, the Press sensationalised these news items and W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :7: stories that came to be published through print, electronic and

social media suggesting various suspicions like, the accused lady is

in fact, daughter in law of another prominent Congress leader,

Kerala Chief Minister directly or indirectly involved, a Central

Minister might have helped the accused to reach Bangalore, various

video and photographs were published to connect several

Government officials and prominent politicians and MPs including

but not limited. It was also reported that although the National

Investigation Agency reportedly stated that they have strong

suspicion that gold smuggling is linked with international terror

funding. There is the possibility of an attempt to endanger the life

of the accused. The reporters also went on to put live telecast of

the journey of the accused giving details of the path, many

passengers and escort vehicles. Therefore, according to the

petitioner, such type of reporting even if to help anyone, it would be

the potential criminals and urges one to think as to what should be

the extreme limit of reporting by the media. It is also stated that

the media reported that Mr. M. Sivasankar, the former IT Secretary

of the State Government who has been removed, from his post as

Chief Minister's Principal Secretary, is the connection between

Swapna Suresh and the Kerala Government and the said Mr

Sivasankar appointed Swpna Suresh as Operations Manager at the

Space Park after she left the UAE Consulate. Various other aspects W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :8: are also pointed out in the writ petition in respect of the news

published by the media houses connecting the Ministers of the State

Government and others. Therefore, the paramount contention

advanced by the petitioner is that it is crystal clear that the

publishers are misusing the right to freedom of speech and

expression guaranteed under the Constitution of India for political

mileage, and trying to use images and words to create

apprehension in the minds of the viewers about their political

leaders or government servants. Such maligned publications are

rampant even in other cases where the accused is remotely

affiliated with any political parties or celebrity. Other instances are

also pointed out by the petitioner in respect of an investigation

conducted in respect of a child abuse and it is contended that the

media houses fabricate news to ensure that the accused are

maligned brutally, and get them punished on the basis of the news

published irresponsibly. 4. The petitioner also submits that without understanding the

true implications of the news items published, even the children and

students are made use of to respond to such fake news against the

Government through social media. Petitioner also points out that

false news are reported in respect of Covid-19 patients, steps taken

by the Government, death occurring thereunder etc. Various

instances in respect of rape cases and other criminal offences are W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 :9: also pointed out by the petitioner. 5. In the backdrop, the grounds raised by the petitioner is

that because of the trial by Media, as the term refers to the role of

media, acting as a Judge overriding the official 'justice delivery

system', thereby distorting, prejudicing, sensationalising,

investigating the public and ultimately derailing the 'justice delivery

processes', and steam-rolling the right to fair trial of the accused.

That apart, it is stated that the Apex Court had even held that the

trial by press, electronic media or by way of a public agitation is the

very antithesis of the rule of law and can lead to a miscarriage of

justice. The Law Commission of India, according to the petitioner,

categorizes 10 types of publications in the media as prejudicial to a

suspect or accused i.e., (1) publications concerning the character of

accused or previous conclusions; (2) publication of confessions; (3)

publications which comment or reflect upon the merits of the case;

(4) photographs; (5) police activities (6) imputation of innocence

(7) creating an atmosphere of prejudice (8) criticism of witnesses;

(9) premature publication of evidence; (10) publication of interviews

with witnesses. However, media in the cases cited as examples

above has published almost the 10 prohibited items, and so far

evaded from any stringent action against them. It is further

submitted that in the guise of freedom of speech and expression,

media is publishing their prejudiced opinion to convey their political W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 10 : agenda and therefore, licence to politically affiliated media house

must be cancelled to bring sanity in the industry. It is also

submitted that in the guise of right to impart the truth through the

media, which in turn is a fundamental right of the citizens of the

country to know, false stories are propagated with the intention to

prejudice to the minds of the people at large, in absolute violation of Article 19 of the Constitution of India. It is also submitted that

because of the careless attitude of reporting, unimaginable

damages are caused to the reputation of the affected person, so as

to suggest that those people are connected with an ongoing crime,

even though their names are not appearing in the FIR, or no official

press briefing done by the police or Government, is against the

scheme of fundamental rights and the criminal jurisprudence of the

country. The submission of the petitioner is that these are

happening, since there is no proper guidelines formed by the State

of Kerala, Union of India and the Press Council of India, and unless

and until directions are issued to form the guidelines, the freedom

of speech will get abused time and again enabling the media, to

conduct a trial even before filing of the FIR. Therefore, according

to the petitioner, steps are to be taken to strike a balance between

the freedom of the press and the right of a victim to have a fair

trial, failing which it will seriously prejudice the matters pending

before court and the victims thereunder, as is discussed above. The W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 11 : petitioner also contends that many of the media houses while

making such false reports has the intention of creating political and

religious polarisation. 6. With the above factual back ground, and materials

produced by the petitioner, including an article written by a former

Judge of the Apex Court, Hon'ble Mr. Justice G. S. Singhvi with the

title 'Trial by Media: a Need to Regulate Freedom of Press', and

other news appeared in various journals and newspapers, attempts

to substantiate the contentions raised with respect to the alleged

false reports by the media, and seeks the following reliefs : They must also be made liable to submit credible evidence to

 the competent court of law for the allegations made by them W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 13 : or allegations made using their platform. 6) Issue a writ of mandamus or any appropriate writ or direction

 or order under Article 227 of the Constitution of India to the

 respondents and/or other appropriate authorities to invoke

 and/or prevent further violation of fundamental rights by the

 media houses. 7) Issue a writ of mandamus or any appropriate writ or direction

 or an order under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of

 India to the respondents and/or other sect or class that being

 used to spread political or communal disharmony in the

 society. 8) Issue a writ of mandamus or any appropriate writ or direction

 or an order under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of

 India to the respondents and/or other appropriate authorities

 to formulate laws to issue licence to private channels using

 social media platform to restrain them from publishing

 objectionable contents through their private channels with

 malafide intentions. 9) Issue a writ of mandamus or any appropriate writ or direction

 or an order under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution of

 India to the respondents and/or other appropriate authorities

 to ensure not to issue a licence to any media house unless

 they ensured that they would report true and correct facts to W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 14 : the public. 7. We have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, Sri.

Premlal Krishnan and learned Senior Government Pleader Sri. P.

Narayanan, and perused the pleadings and documents on record. 8. The sum and substance of the contentions put forth by the

petitioner is that scathing attacks are made by the media by acting

themselves as Judges, overriding the official justice delivery system,

and thereby interfering with the right to a fair trial of an accused in

criminal cases. Contentions are put forth also to demonstrate that

aspersions are made in the print, as well as the visual media

against the Chief Minister, Ministers, Opposition Leader and others

without any basis and factual foundations. According to the

petitioner, a trial by press, electronic media or public agitation is

the very antithesis of the rule of law and can lead to a miscarriage

of justice. Therefore, according to the petitioner, in the guise of the

freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution of India, media is publishing their prejudiced

opinion with the intention of conveying their political agendas and

matters being so, the licence of the politically affiliated media

houses must be cancelled to bring sanctity in the industry. It is also

submitted that by propagating false and scandalising news, the

media is causing prejudice to the mind of the people at large which

is absolutely in violation of the freedom of speech and expression W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 15 : guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution, and the right of the

citizens to know the truth. The case of the petitioner, therefore, is

that the law prevailing in the country to deal with such situations is

not sufficient enough to tackle the irresponsible acts of the press

and the print and visual media, and in that eventuality, this court

should step in, and form guidelines incorporating the restrictions, as

envisaged under Article 19 of the Constitution of India by its

framers. 9. In fact, we are venturing to dispose of the writ petition,

when it came up for admission itself, since we had the advantage of

hearing the learned Special Government Pleader, who was ready

with the judgements rendered by the Apex Court also on the point,

setting a precedent. In so far as the issue raised by the petitioner is

concerned, the seminal question that emerges for consideration is

whether as is sought for by the petitioner, any guidelines can be

framed by this Court in order to regulate and control the activities of

the press or rather the print and electronic media. It is unequivocal,

and trite that under the Indian Constitution, media is not having any

specific fundamental right for their freedom of speech and

expression unlike the first amendment to the American Constitution

where the press has absolute freedom of speech and expression.

The press in India is enjoying the freedom of speech and expression

in terms of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 16 : of the Constitution of India to the citizens of the country. Article

19(1)(a) specifies that all citizens shall have the right to freedom of

speech and expression, along with other valuable rights conferred

thereunder. But, fact remains, clause (2) of Article 19 delineates

clear restrictions while exercising the freedom guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India, which stipulates that

'nothing in sub clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of

any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so

far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of

the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the

sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly

relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in

relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an

offence.' 10. On a reading of the above specified clause, it is clear that

the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed is almost

absolute but for the power enjoyed by the State from making any

law so as to have reasonable restrictions in respect of the matters

specified thereunder. Apparently, by virtue of the powers conferred

under Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India, the laws are made

by the State in order to protect the sovereignty and integrity of

India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign

States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 17 : of court, defamation or incitement to an offence. It is true, the

freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the

Constitution of India is entitled to be enjoyed by all the citizens

which includes, the journalists and the personnel attached to the

media houses. The issue with the freedom of the press vis-a-vis the

right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India

was a subject matter for consideration of the constitutional courts

under different context right from the year 1950 and a plethora of

judgements of the Apex Court as well as High Courts are available in

the law journals and reports. 11. In order to dispose of the case at hand, we are of the

view that it would be worthwhile to track down the judicial history of

the judgements rendered by the Apex Court, and some High Courts

in the matter of freedom of speech and expression in the Indian

context to arrive at a logical and worthy conclusion. First among

the cases that we have come across in that regard is the judgement

of the Six Member Constitution Bench of the Apex Court in Romesh

Thappar v. State of Madras [AIR 1950 SC 124]. That was a case

where a restriction contained under Section 9(1- A) of the Madras

Maintenance of Public Order Act, 1949 which authorises imposition

of restrictions for the wider purpose of securing public safety or the

maintenance of public order was under consideration of the Apex

Court. The distinction between public order and public safety was W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 18 : considered and ultimately held that unless a law restricting the

freedom of speech and expression is directed solely against the

undermining of the security of the State or the over-throw of it,

such law cannot fall within the reservation under clause (2) of Article 19 of the Constitution, although the restrictions which

seeks to impose may have been conceived generally in the

interests of public order. It was further held thereunder that clause

(2) of Article 19 of the Constitution having allowed the imposition of

restrictions on the freedom of speech and expression only in cases

where danger to the State is involved,and an enactment, which is

capable of being applied to cases where no such danger could arise,

cannot be held to be constitutional and valid to any extent. 12. In Brij Bhusan and another v. State of Delhi [AIR

1950 SC 129], the question considered was with respect to the

imposition of pre-censorship of a journal namely Organiser as per

the provisions of the Punjab Public Safety Act vis-a-vis the liberty

enjoyed by the press. After considering the facts and circumstances

and the law involved, the Six Member Constitution Bench of the

Apex Court has held that "in construing the Act, we must try to get

at its aim and purpose, and before the Act is declared to be invalid,

we must see whether it is capable of being so construed as to bear

a reasonable meaning consistent with its validity. We, therefore,

cannot ignore the fact that preservation of public safety is the W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 19 : dominant purpose of the Act and that it is a special Act providing for

special measures and therefore, it should not be confused with an

Act which is applicable to ordinary situations and to any and every

trivial case of breach of public order. 13. In M.S.M. Sharma v. SriKrishna Sinha and others

[AIR 1959 SC 395], the Five Member Constitution Bench of the

Apex Court was considering the freedom of speech and expression

of the press vis-a-vis Article 194(3) of the Constitution of India and

it was held that Article 19 guarantees to all citizens freedom of

speech and expression, but does not specifically or separately

provide for liberty of the Press and that the liberty of the Press is

implicit in the freedom of speech and expression which is conferred

on a citizen. The freedom of speech and expression includes the

freedom of propagation of ideas and that freedom is ensured by the

freedom of circulation. It was also held that the imposition of pre-

censorship on a journal is a restriction on the liberty of the Press as

is held in Brijbhushan (supra) which is an essential part of the

right to freedom of speech and expression declared by Article 19(1) (a) of the Constitution. 14. In Sakal Papers (P) Ltd. and others v. Union of

India [AIR 1962 SC 305], the question of imposition contained

under the Newspaper (Price and Page) Act, 1956 and the Daily

Newspaper (Price and Page) Order, 1960 vis-a-vis the provisions of W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 20 : Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India was the theme, and it

was held that it must-be borne in mind that the the provisions of the

Constitution must be interpreted in a broad way and not in a narrow

and pedantic sense,that certain rights have been enshrined in our

Constitution as fundamental and therefore, while considering the

nature and content of those rights, the Court must not be too astute

to interpret the language-of the Constitution in so literal so as to

whittle them down but on the other hand, the Court must interpret

the Constitution in a manner which would enable the citizen to enjoy

the rights guaranteed by it in the fullest measure subject, of course,

to permissible restrictions. Bearing the principle in mind, it would

be clear that the right to freedom of speech and expression carries

with it the right to publish and circulate one's ideas, opinions and

views with complete freedom and by resorting to any available

means of publication, subject again to such restrictions as could be

legitimately imposed under clause (2) of Article 19 of the

Constitution of India. 15. In Virendra v. State of Punjab [AIR 1957 SC 8896, it

was observed that it is certainly a serious encroachment on the

valuable and cherished right to freedom of speech and expression if

a newspaper is prevented from publishing its own views or the

views of its correspondent and relating to or concerning what may

be the burning topic of the day. and It was held that right to W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 21 : freedom of speech and expression is an individual right guaranteed

to every citizen by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India and

there is nothing in clause (2) of Article 19 , which permits the State

to abridge this right on the ground of conferring benefits upon the

public in general or upon a section of public and it is not open to the

State to curtail or infringe the freedom of speech of one for

promoting the general welfare of a section or a group of people,

unless its action could be justified under a law, competent under

clause (2) of Article 19 of the Constitution. 16. In Express Newspapers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [AIR 1958 SC 578], the Apex Court has laid down that while there

is no immunity to the press from the operation of the general laws,

it would not be legitimate to subject the press to laws which take

away or abridge the freedom of speech and expression or adopt

measures calculated and intended to curtail circulation and thereby

narrow the scope of dissemination of information, or fetter its

freedom to choose its means of exercising the right or would

undermine its independence by driving it to seek Government aid

and further that a law which lays upon the Press excessive and

prohibitive burdens which would restrict the circulation of a

newspaper would not be saved by Artcile 19(2) of the Constitution. 17. In Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Private

Ltd. and others v. Union of India and others [AIR 1986 SC W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 22 : 515], where a number of writ petitions filed by the other

newspapers were also considered vis-a-vis the provisions of the Customs Act imposing customs duty to the News Print Import, it

was held that the freedom of expression, as learned writers have

observed, has four broad social purposes to serve: (i) it helps an

individual to attain self-fulfilment, (ii) it assists in the discovery of

truth, (iii) it strengthens the capacity of an individual in

participating in decision making, and (iv) it provides a mechanism

by which it would be possible to establish a reasonable balance

between stability and social change. All members of society should

be able to form their own beliefs and communicate them freely

to others and in sum, the fundamental principle involved is the

right to know and therefore, the freedom of speech and

expression should, receive a generous support from all those

who believe in the participation of people in the administration.

It was also held thereunder that the purpose of the press is to

advance the public interest by publishing facts and opinions

without which a democratic electorate cannot make responsible

judgements and further that the freedom of press is the heart of

social and political intercourse and it is the primary duty of the

courts to uphold the said freedom and invalidate all laws or

administrative actions which interfere with it, contrary to the

constitutional mandate. 18. In Printers (Mysore) Ltd. And another v. Asst .

Commercial Tax Officer and others [(1994) 2 SCC 434], the

court considered the question of the extent of immunity enjoyed by

the press in the context of the sales tax imposed in inter-State sale

and held that special treatment given to newspapers has a

philosophy and historical background and the freedom of press has

been placed on a higher footing than other enterprises. It was also

observed that though freedom of press is not explicitly guaranteed

as a fundamental right, it is implicit in the freedom of speech and

expression and that freedom of press has always been a cherished

right in all democratic countries and it was accordingly that it has

rightly been described as the Fourth Estate, though it is not immune

from the general law of land including civil and criminal liability for

libel and defamation. 19. In Harijai Singh & Anr vs Vijay Kumar [(1996) 6

SCC 466], the Apex Court considered the question of freedom

enjoyed by the press and the restraints to be shown vis-a-vis a

contumacious article published,certain observations therein would

be worth-extraction. Paragraphs 9 to 11 read thus: It may be pointed out here that Mahatma Gandhi in his
 autobiography has stated that one of the objectives of the
 newspaper is to understand the proper feelings of the people and
 give expression to it; another is to arouse among the people certain
 desirable sentiments; and the third is to fearlessly express popular
 defects. It, therefore, turns out that the press should have the right
 to present anything which it thinks fit for publication. 10.But it has to be remembered that this freedom of press
 is not absolute, unlimited and unfettered at all times and in all
 circumstances as giving an unrestricted freedom of speech and
 expression would amount to an uncontrolled licence. If it were
 wholly free even from reasonable restraints it would lead to disorder
 and anarchy. The freedom is not to be misunderstood as to be a
 press free to disregard its duty to be responsible. In fact, the
 element of responsibility must be present in the conscience of the
 journalists. In an organised society, the rights of the press have to
 be recognised with its duties and responsibilities towards the society.
 Public order, decency, morality and such other things must be
 safeguarded. The protective cover of press freedom must not be
 thrown open for wrong doings. If a newspaper publishes what is
 improper, mischievously false or illegal and abuses its liberty it must
 be punished by court of law. The editor of a newspaper or a journal
 has a greater responsibility to guard against untruthful news and
 publications for the simple reason that his utterances have a far
 greater circulation and impact than the utterances of an individual
 and by reason of their appearing in print, they are likely to be
 believed by the ignorant. That being so, certain restrictions are
 essential even for preservation of the freedom of the press itself. To
 quote from the report of Mons Lopez to the Economic and Social
 Council of the United Nations "If it is true that human progress is
 impossible without freedom, then it is no less true that ordinary
 human progress is impossible without a measure of regulation and
 discipline". It is the duty of a true and responsible journalist to strive W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 25 : to inform the people with accurate and impartial presentation of
 news and their views after dispassionate evaluation of the facts and
 information received by them and to be published as a news item.
 The presentation of the news should be truthful, objective and
 comprehensive without any false and distorted expression. 11. In the present case, as we have noticed above, neither
 the printer, publisher nor the editor and reporter took the necessary
 care in evaluating the correctness and credibility of the information
 published by them as the news items in the newspapers referred to
 above in respect of an allegation of a very serious nature having
 great repercussions causing an embarrassment to this Court. An
 editor is a person who controls the selection of the matter which is
 to be published in a particular issue of the newspaper. The editor
 and publisher are liable for illegal and false matter which is published
 in their newspaper. Such an irresponsible conduct and attitude on
 the part of the editor, publisher and the reporter cannot be said to
 be done in good faith, but distinctly opposed to the high professional
 standards as even a slightest enquiry or a simple verification of the
 alleged statement about grant of petrol outlets to the two sons of a
 Senior Judge of the Supreme Court, out of discretionary quota,
 which is found to be patently false would have revealed the truth.
 But it appears that even the ordinary care was not resorted to by the
 contemners in publishing such a false news items. This cannot be
 regarded as a public service, but a disservice to the public by
 misguiding them with a false news. Obviously, this cannot be
 regarded as something done in good faith. 20. In Asharam Bapu v. Union of India and others

[(2013) 10 SCC 37), the Apex Court was considering the question

whether any guidelines to be formed for the functioning of the

media and after taking into account various judgements rendered by

the Apex Court, it was held that there is no need to entertain the

writ petition, in view of various directions in the judgements

referred there to, and expressed hope and trust that the media,

both print and electronic, would follow those guidelines. Even W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 26 : though there are various other judgements with regard to the

nature of freedom enjoyed by the press, we found the above

referred ones relevant to the context. On analysing the

observations and the findings rendered by the Apex Court in the

judgements discussed above, it is clear that the press enjoys only

the freedom like any other citizens, in terms of the guarantee

extended under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. No

doubt, the press has got the liberty and the freedom for fair and

honest news reporting. However, it is discernible from the words of

wisdom rendered by the Apex Court that freedom guaranteed to the

press under Article 19(1)(a) cannot be misused and the press has

the duty to ensure that reports are made truly and fairly so as not

to interfere with the freedom enjoyed by the citizens in any manner.

We are also conscious of the fact that the freedom guaranteed

under Article 19(1)(a) to anyone cannot overlook the guarantee of

life and liberty enjoyed by the citizens under Article 21 of the

Constitution of India which specifies that no person shall be

deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to the

procedure established by law. Definitely, the restrictions contained

thereunder would make it clear that even the press is not at liberty

to scuttle the freedom of life and personal liberty of any citizen.

However, the principles of law propounded by the Apex Court also

would show that the freedom enjoyed by the press as the fourth W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 27 : estate in the governance of the country is vital and also

distinguished so as to protect the interests of public, and in the

matter of disseminating the news for the public good. 21. Taking into account the intention of the constituent

assembly by incorporating Articles 19(1)(a) and 21 to the

Constitution of India, it is clear that both will have to be enjoyed by

the citizens among themselves without interfering inter se with the

rights guaranteed in the said provisions. 22.That said , now the further question crops up for

consideration is whether any guidelines can be framed by this Court

as is sought for by the petitioner. As we have discussed above, the

laws made under clause (2) of Article 19 makes reasonable

restrictions in respect of the freedom enjoyed by the press also

under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and according to us, the

restrictions contained under clause (2) of Article 19 itself is a

guideline, and it is imperative that even the press while making the

publication should be concerned with the public order, decency or

morality because the restriction is imposed under clause (2) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India on the basis of the freedom of

speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the

Constitution of India. Which thus means equivalent to freedom, a

corresponding duty and obligation is cast upon the press to ensure

restraints so as not to violate the valuable and cherished rights and W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 28 : freedom , and privacy both public and private of the citizens. 23. Looking at the contentions advanced by the petitioner, it

is explicit that the petitioner was not personally affected by the

publication of any news and there by not personally aggrieved,

however the argument put forth by the petitioner is that since the

media is making irresponsible and scathing remarks against public

men and leaders ruling the state and the nation, an intrinsic

element of grievance, in public interest is involved. Analysing the

principles of Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, and the significant

multifarious roles played by it, we are of the view that a

constitutional court would not be able to comprehend various

situations and form a guideline so as to restrict the media from

enjoying its freedom conferred under Article 19(1)(a) of the

Constitution of India. Moreover, making a law is the absolute

domain of the parliament and the State legislatures in terms of the

provisions of the Constitution of India, and the framers of the

constitution intended and envisioned a clear demarcation of exercise

power by the Legislature, executive and the judiciary, which is also

largely dependant on the successive policies formulated by the

Government for its functioning. 24. The question with respect to the framing of guidelines

and similar other issues were considered by a Five Member

Constitution Bench of the Apex Court in Sahara India Real W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 29 : Estate Corporation Limited and others v. Securities and

Exchange Board of India and another [(2012) 10 SCC 603], and

after conducting a threadbare and exhaustive survey of the prior

judgements of the Apex Court, as well as taking into account the

freedom guaranteed to the press in various countries of the world,

the Apex Court held that laying down a guideline to regulate the

activities of the media is not a wise proposition. However, the

proposition of law laid down by the Apex Court earlier and the law in

vogue to take action against the press was taken into consideration

and held that a prior restraint pre-empting the right to freedom of

speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution of India

cannot be done, except under exceptional circumstances and that

too after considering the issues on a case to case basis. Paragraphs

32 to 34 would be relevant to the context, which read thus: 33. While the principle laid down cannot be faulted, whether W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 31 : it ought to have been applied in the facts of that case is

 questionable. The matter arose out of a sensational libel suit in

 the Bombay High Court. One of the witnesses for the defence

 who had made an affidavit of facts in different proceedings,

 considered relevant for the libel suit, but did not adhere to them

 in these proceedings, made a request that his evidence be

 withheld from publication on the ground that publication of

 reports of his earlier deposition had caused loss to his business.

 The presiding Judge orally ordered that the witness's deposition

 should not be reported in newspapers. The petitioners

 challenged the order on the ground, inter alia, that their rights

 under Article 19(1)(a) had been infringed and that the gag order

 could not be justified on any ground under Article 19(2). The

 petitioners contended that truthful reports of proceedings could

 not be banned. The Supreme Court, by a majority of 8:1

 dismissed the petition, applying the reasoning set out above.

 Hidayatullah, J. the lone dissenting voice, thought it an

 astounding proposition that a witness could seek protection

 because his truthful statement would harm his own business.

 The Judge held that Section 151 of the Civil Procedure Code on W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 32 : which reliance was placed, in spite of its very generous and

 wide language could not be used to confer a discretion on the

 court to turn its proceedings which should be open and public

 into a private affair. 34. The majority went on to hold that such a judicial

 decision in the interests of the administration of justice cannot

 be held to be contrary to the fundamental right under Article

 19(1)(a). Applying the direct effect test, the court came to the

 conclusion that if, as an incidental consequence of the order,

 the proceedings could not be reported, there could not be said

 to be any constitutional infirmity in the order. It was further

 held that the law empowering the court to prohibit publication

 of proceedings was within the reasonable restrictions

 contemplated by Article 19(2) which includes restrictions in

 relation to contempt of court. An obstruction to the

 administration of justice is tantamount to contempt of court

 and therefore, prohibition of the publication intended to

 prevent an obstruction to justice was within the scope of Article 19(2)." After holding so, it was held by the Apex Court that in the light of W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 33 : the law discussed and enunciated in Sahara (supra), it was held

that, anyone, be he an accused or an aggrieved person who

genuinely apprehends on the basis of the the content of the

publication and its effect an infringement of his/her rights under Article 21 to a a fair trial and all that it comprehends, would be

entitled to approach an appropriate writ court and seek an order of

postponement of the offending publication/broadcast or

postponement of reporting of certain phases of the trial, including

identity of the victim or the witness or the complainant, and that the

court may grant such preventive relief, on a balancing of the right to

a fair trial and Article 19(1)(a) rights, bearing in mind the

abovementioned principles of necessity and proportionality and

keeping in mind that such orders of postponement should be for

short duration and should be applied only in cases of real and

substantial risk of prejudice to the proper administration of justice

or to the fairness of trial. It was further observed that such utilising

device would not be an unreasonable restriction and on the

contrary, would fall within the proper constitutional framework. It

was also held thereunder that excessive prejudicial publicity leading

to usurpation of functions of the court not only interferes with

administration of justice which is sought to be protected under Article 19(2) , it also prejudices or interferes with a particular legal W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 34 : proceedings and under any such eventuality courts are duty bound

under inherent jurisdiction, subject to above parameters, to protect

the presumption of innocence which is now recognised as a human

right under Article 21 of the Constitution subject to the applicant

proving displacement of such a presumption in appropriate

proceedings. 25. In the context of the above discussion, paragraph 52 of

the judgment in Sahara (supra) is relevant which reads thus: textured expressions such as "law in relation to contempt of
 court" in Article 19(2) , "equal protection of law", "freedom of
 speech and expression" and "administration of justice" is a
 legitimate judicial function. According to Ronald Dworkin,
 "Arguments of principle are arguments intended to establish an
 individual right. Principles are propositions that describe rights."
 [See "Taking Rights Seriously" by Ronald Dworkin, 5th Reprint
 2010, p. 90]. In this case, this Court is only declaring
 under Article 141 , the constitutional limitations on free speech
 under Article 19(1)(a) , in the context of Article 21. The exercise
 undertaken by this Court is an exercise of exposition of
 constitutional limitations under Article 141 read with Article
 129/Article 215 in the light of the contentions and large number W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 35 : of authorities referred to by the counsel on Article 19(1) (a), Article 19(2) , Article 21 , Article 129 and Article 215 as also
 the "law of contempt" insofar as interference with administration
 of justice under the common law as well as under Section 2(c) of
 1971 Act is concerned. What constitutes an offending
 publication would depend on the decision of the court on case to
 case basis. Hence, guidelines on reporting cannot be framed
 across the Board. The shadow of "law of contempt" hangs over
 our jurisprudence. This Court is duty bound to clear that shadow
 under Article 141. The phrase "in relation to contempt of court" 26. In this scenario, we feel that the observation made by the

Supreme of Court of United States in the New York Times

Company v. L. B. Sullivan [376 US 254 (1964)] in the light of the

provisions of the American Constitution is relevant: 27. It was also held in Sahara (supra) that any person

aggrieved would be at liberty to approach the court of law wherein any

proceedings is pending and seek for appropriate orders so as to have a

fair trial guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. In

that context, the Apex Court had also occasion to consider the

reporting by the press vis-a-vis the power of prosecution contained

under Section 499 of the IPC and held that the courts would be at

liberty to take appropriate steps while the trial is taking place, to

restrict the press. 28. In E. M. Sankaran Namboodiripad vs T. Narayanan Nambiar [(1970) 2 SCC 325], it has been held that the existence of law

containing its own guiding principles, reduces the discretion of the

court's to the minimum. But, where the law (that is, the 1971 Act) is

silent, the courts have discretion and this is more so, when the said

enactment is required to be interpreted in the light of Article 21 and

thereafter, held at paragraph 6 as follows: 29. That apart, the said question was considered by the Apex

Court in Anukul Chandra pradhan v. Union of India and others

[(1996) 6 SCC 354 and held that a court dealing with any matter

has to bear in mind that utmost expedition in the trial and its early

conclusion is necessarily for the ends of justice and credibility of the

judicial process and that no occasion should arise for an impression

that the publicity attached to these matters has tended to dilute the W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 38 : emphasis on the essentials of a fair trial and the basic principles of

jurisprudence including the presumption of innocence of the accused

unless found guilty at the end of the trial. 30. In State of Maharashtra v. Rajendra Jawanmal

Gandhi [(1997) 8 SCC 386], the Apex Court had deprecated the

trial by media and held that there is a procedure established by law

governing the conduct of trial of a person accused of an offence and

trial by press, electronic media or public agitation is the very

antithesis of rule of law which can lead to miscarriage of justice. 31. In M.P. Lohia v. State of West Bengal and another [(2005) 2 SCC 86], the Apex Court strongly condemned the

materials published in the newspapers, since it was found that the

articles would certainly interfere with the administration of justice

and the Apex Court had deprecated such practice and cautioned the

publisher, editor and the journalist, who were responsible for the

said article and indulging in such trial by media when the issue was

sub judice. 32. In Sanjoy Narayan, Editor-in-Chief, Hindustan

Times and others v. High Court of Allahabad [(2011) 13 SCC

155], the Apex Court considered the general functioning of the

electronic and print media in a democracy and held that dignity of

courts and people's faith in the administration must not be tarnished

because of factually wrong, biased or unverified reporting and that W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 39 : in order to avoid such biased reporting, one must be careful to

verify the facts and do some research on the subject being reported

before a publication is brought out. It has also emphasised the

need to provide proper checks and balances so that media does not

stray from its real course and also unequivocally said that the media

has a duty to respect individuals' fundamental right to privacy, and

in order to ensure that people's faith in administration of justice is

not diminished. Paragraph 3 of the said judgment is relevant to the

context, which reads thus: That said, the role played by the media to disseminate news to

bring it to the notice of the public is a relevant aspect for the true

and effective functioning of democracy . That is why the press is

always addressed as the Fourth Estate. If the media is not

permitted to undertake such an exercise, the citizens would find it W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 40 : difficult to know and understand the activities undertaken by the

public men by virtue of the mandate given by the citizens which

would lead to total anarchy and prompt the administrators to

indulge themselves in unethical and irresponsible activities,

prejudicial to the interest of the public and thus causing adverse and

negative situations so as to interfere with the fair administration of

the justice envisioned by the framers of the Constitution. In this

regard, we are of the opinion that the finding rendered by the

Supreme Court of United States in New York Time Company v.

United States would be relevant. Paragraph 36 reads thus: 33. Therefore, analysing the facts and figures, the pros and

cons, and the principles of law laid down by the Apex Court in the

judgements above, it is unequivocal that framing of a general

guideline may not be possible, thus, restricting the freedom of press W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 41 : as is held in Sahara India (supra). On a compendious analysis of

the precedents, it has attained a shape of sufficient protective

measures to insulate the rights of the citizens under the

Constitution of India. That apart, we are of the view that taking into

account the requisite provisions of law available under the Indian

Penal Code and the Contempt of Courts Act, any person aggrieved is

entitled to take necessary action so as to redress his grievances. So

also, the courts are vested with ample powers while conducting trial

of any sensational cases or when privacy is required to be

maintained, to conduct in-camera proceedings and restrict the

media from reporting any sensational news or any news so as to

materially interfere with the privacy of a citizen. Moreover, we are

satisfied that the Press Council Act, 1978 clearly prescribes a

methodology to redress the grievances of any aggrieved person. Initially, the Press Council Act, 1965 was passed to establish a Press

Council and Press Council of India was established in July, 1966.

However, during emergency, the Press Council of India was

dissolved with effect from 1st January, 1976 and thereupon the Press

Council Act, 1965 was repealed by the Press Council (Repeal) Act,

1976 with effect from 1 st January, 1976. Any how, during 1977, the

Central Government felt it necessary to give effect to the proposal

of bringing out a new legislation and it was accordingly that the Press Council Act, 1978 was passed with the object of preserving W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 42 : the freedom of press and of maintaining and improving the

standards of newspapers by constituting an authority vested with

statutory powers. The Act, 1978 envisages the establishment of

Press Council with a Chairman and 28 other members and the

Chairman and Council shall be a person nominated by a committee

consisting of the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, the Speaker of the

House of People and a person elected by the members of the

Council under sub-section (6) and the nomination so made shall

take effect from the date on which it is notified by the Central

Government in the Official Gazette. 34. Section 13 of the Act, deals with the objects and

functions of Council and sub-Section (1) specifies that the objects

of the Council shall be to preserve the freedom of the Press and to

maintain and improve the standards of newspapers and news

agencies in India. Sub-Section (2) specifies that the Council may, in

furtherance of its objects, perform the functions inter alia among

others as follows: 35. Section 14 of the Act, 1978 deals with the power to

censure and it specifies that on receipt of a complaint made to it or

otherwise, the Council has reason to believe that a newspaper or

news agency has offended against the standards or journalistic

ethics or public taste or that an editor or a working journalist has

committed any professional misconduct, the Council may, after

giving the newspaper, or news agency, the editor or journalist

concerned an opportunity of being heard, hold an inquiry in such

manner as may be provided by regulations made under the Act

and, if it is satisfied that it is necessary so to do, it may, for reasons

to be recorded in writing, warn, admonish or censure the

newspaper, the news agency, the editor or the journalist or

disapprove the conduct of the editor or the journalist, as the case

may be. The Council is also vested with further powers to direct

the newspaper to publish in such manner as the Council thinks fit,

any particulars relating to any inquiry under the said provision

against a newspaper or news agency, an editor or a journalist

working therein, including the name of such newspaper, news W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 44 : agency, editor or journalist. In order to conduct an enquiry, the

Council is vested with powers in accordance with the Code of Civil

Procedure , 1908 in respect of summoning and enforcing the

attendance of persons and examining them on oath and such other

matters that are delineated thereunder. On an appreciation of the

provisions of the Act, 1978, it is clear that there is an efficacious

remedy available to any aggrieved person to approach the Press

Council constituted under the Act, 1978. Apart from the same, in

order to regulate and control the cable television networks, the

Government of India has made the Cable Television Networks

(Regulation) Act, 1995 and the Cable Television Network Rules,

1994, wherein sufficient provisions are made to control the

functioning of the electronic media and any aggrieved person is

entitled to approach the authorities constituted thereunder and

seek to redress the grievances. 36. A Division Bench of the Madras High Court to which one

of us (Hon'ble the Chief Justice Shri. S. Manikumar) was a party,

had occasion to consider the issue with respect to the framing of

guidelines in M.R. Saravnan @ Cine Saravanan v. the Joint

Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,

Government of India, New Delhi and others [W.P.(C) No. 21497

of 2017] and taking into account the entire gamut of the laws and

the judgements, it is held that the provisions of law makes it clear W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 45 : that a mechanism is provided to redress the grievances of any

citizen and therefore, there is no reason for entertaining a writ

petition in respect of formation of guidelines etc. It was held therein

that "the freedom of expression is a pivotal component of our

individual development - as human beings and as political animals -

and to improve and radicalise democracies. The invention of the

press was a turning point in the debate about freedom of

expression. The printing press magnified the reach of opinions,

information and ideas. Indeed, the pen became mightier than the

sword. Guaranteeing each individual the right to freely give and

receive information was perceived as a threat to the sovereign and

sometimes even the State; when ideologies clashed. It was the era

of mass media. Except for the United States of America due to the

first amendment, democracies all over the world regulated mass

media. 37. Considering the facts and circumstances and the law

discussed above, we have no hesitation to hold that a public interest

litigation to frame guidelines to restrict the media on the basis of

the allegations made in the writ petition cannot be entertained and

no guidelines can be framed taking into account the contentions put

forth by the petitioner. We also feel that the judgements rendered

by the Apex Court would make it clear that the media can be

restricted by the courts on a case to case basis. Moreover, a Judge W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 46 : adjudicating any lis before it would be depending solely on the

materials available on record, and definitely would not be guided by

a press report unless the report itself is a material for consideration

in the lis. We are also of the view that the petitioner is never an

aggrieved person and no relief can be granted especially in view of

the fact that the petitioner has not produced any materials to

substantiate the pleadings. Thinking so, it is quite vivid and clear

that the issue raised by the petitioner is set at naught by the Apex

Court in Sahara (supra) by holding that general framing of

guidelines for regulating the press is not possible. Therefore, it is a

law declared under Article 141 of the Constitution of India having

binding force thoughout India and therefore, binding on this Court

also. Before we part with the judgement, it is relevant to mention

the observations made by the High Court of Judicature, Madras in

M.R. Saravanan (supra) that under self regulation the media

voluntarily commits to uphold a code of ethics that it, itself drafts,

thus providing a mechanism to which the public can complaint about

perceived breaches of the court and an independent council

adjudicating on the complaints and decides upon appropriate

remedies in order to secure the credibility of its profession and the

trust of the public. The upshot of the above discussion is, petitioner is not

entitled to get any reliefs as is sought for in this writ petition. Writ W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 47 : petition fails and accordingly, it is dismissed. S. MANIKUMAR,
 CHIEF JUSTICE. SHAJI P. CHALY,
 JUDGE. Rv W.P.(C) No. 16349/2020 : 48 : APPENDIX

PETITIONER'S/S EXHIBITS: EXHIBIT P3 TRUE COPY OF THE REPORTS OF THE VARIOUS MEDIA
 HOUSES. RESPONDENTS' EXHIBITS: NIL

 /True Copy/

 PS to Judge. rv