This order shall dispose of regular bail application of

petitioner Rahul Nagpal in case FIR No. 210 dated 16.11.2018 under Sections 354-D , 383 , 384 , 499 , 503 , 507 , 509 , 511 , 120-B of IPC and Section 67(A) of Information Technology Act, 2000 registered at

Police Station Sector 49, Chandigarh. The brief facts that have been brought to the notice of this

Court are that the present case was got registered by complainant

Gurmeet Singh father of a then unmarried girl student of M.B.A. It is

alleged that when the victim was studying in B.tech in the year 2017

petitioner who happened to be one of the classmates of the girl became

friendly and through this relationship clicked her objectionable photos

(which have not been placed on record for the sake of privacy as per

the stand of the prosecution) and, thereafter, enticed her on false

assurances and promises and during the course of events when the girl

 1 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 10-02-2019 00:30:59 ::: CRM M-792 of 2019 -2- joined MBA course, the accused often used to stalk her. In the

meanwhile, the parents of the girl engaged her, on occasion of coming

to know of it the petitioner would pass on mis information and get the

engagement called off. The petitioner as is alleged by the prosecution

used to send objectionable photos of the girl regarding which a

complaint was lodged with the police on 10.10.2017 and, thereafter,

the petitioner and his family got the matter settled by apologizing but

it is alleged that the accused did not desist from his act of blackmailing

and torturing the girl who got married on 01.01.2018. It is alleged that

the petitioner thereafter in order to blackmail the girl started sending

her objectionable photos to her in-laws, local fraternity of the father of

the girl, the complainant of this case, who happens to be a practising

lawyer. In spite of the best efforts of the family of the girl, the accused

did not desist from his acts and on 16.11.2018 circulated such

objectionable photos to the various acquaintances of the complainant

leading to arrest of the petitioner on 18.11.2018. Statement of the girl

was recorded where she made all these allegations. Mr. P.S. Ahluwalia, learned counsel for the petitioner has

vehemently argued that it was a consensual relationship of the boy and

the girl and sought to place reliance on the photostat copies of the

photographs taken from the net as well as other such sources arguing

that a false case has been registered by the father of the girl for a

motivated cause. Further arguing that petitioner is behind the bars

since a long time and being both grown up and in the absence of any

evidence of blackmailing and threats and there being no evidence of

stalking by the accused together with the fact that the trial is not likely

 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 10-02-2019 00:30:59 ::: CRM M-792 of 2019 -3- to be concluded in near future prayed for grant of bail. Mr. Rajiv Vij, APP for U.T. Chandigarh assisted by SI

Suneel Kumar, Cyber Crime, Chandigarh has vehemently opposed the

grant of bail on the grounds that the petitioner had repeatedly by

sending the morphed pictures of the girl, which were objectionable in

nature and in spite of compromise did not desist from doing so and

rather circulated the same to the acquaintances of the complainant and

therefore has defiled a married woman and such an act is in itself

suggestive of element of blackmailing. It is argued that if the petitioner

is allowed bail would certainly threaten the witnesses of the

prosecution and might stifle the trial. Going through the submissions of the two sides without

feeling the necessity to comment on the very documentary evidence of

the prosecution over the alleged morphed photographs of the girl,

which were never placed on the records to protect the privacy of the

victim as it might prejudice either of the parties at the trial. The

innumerable documents placed on the police file shown to the Court

show that the petitioner has not refrained from carrying on these

nefarious activities in spite of complaints to the police where the

petitioner and his family have promised not to commit such an act and

he is repeatedly doing so. The conduct of the petitioner in ensuring

that the engagements on earlier occasions of the victim are called off

every time and sending of such objectionable photographs on the net

and to the in-laws of the girl, friends and acquaintances of the

complainant side are matters which reflect upon the revengeful attitude

of the petitioner. While doing so by his acts, he has defiled the

 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 10-02-2019 00:30:59 ::: CRM M-792 of 2019 -4- womanhood and has tried to bring disrepute to a newly married bride

for a motivated cause. What has been done by the petitioner has

immense harm caused to the complainant side and that such like

nefarious activities on the net of blackmailing, seducing by such

mischievous and clever persons need to be curbed. The Courts being

tools of social justice must ensure that the society needs to be

protected from such elements and the apprehension of the State that if

the petitioner is allowed bail would stifle the trial certainly to the mind

of this Court is not unfounded. As there has been innumerable

instances of threats being meted out by the petitioner to the

complainant side, finding no merit in the present petition, the same

stands dismissed.