The present appeal is directed against the judgment

 of conviction dated 26.03.2013 and order of sentence dated

 30.03.2013, passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge, Una,

 H.P., (learned Trial Court), vide which the appellant (accused

 before learned Trial Court) was convicted of the commission of

 an offence punishable under Section 498A of Indian Penal Code

 ( IPC ) and was sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for

 two years, pay a fine of ₹5,000/- and in default of payment of 1 Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. 2026:HHC:7-DB

 fine, to undergo further simple imprisonment for 30 days. (Parties shall hereinafter be referred to in the same manner as they

 were arrayed before the learned Trial Court for convenience.)

 . 2. Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to the present

 appeal are that the police presented a challan against the accused

 before the learned Trial Court for the commission of offences

 of
 punishable under Sections 498-A and 306 of the Indian Penal

 Code ( IPC ). It was asserted that Sunita Kumari (since deceased) is
 rt
 the daughter of the informant Suresh Kumar (PW1). She was

 married to Vipin Kumar (accused) in the year 2007. One son was

 born to her. Vipin Kumar was working as a Halwai in Hoshiarpur. However, he had started raising the construction of the house

 and was residing in his home at Una. The informant and Raj

 Kumari (PW2) went to the house of the accused on 06.05.2012. Sunita Devi did not talk to them and told them angrily that she

 had no relations with them. The informant repeatedly enquired

 as to why she was saying so. Sunita cried and said that the

 informant had pushed her away. The informant made inquiries

 from Vipin, but he did not reveal anything. He counselled Vipin. The informant and his wife returned to their home. Vipin

 informed the informant on 08.05.2012 that Sunita Devi had died ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 3 2026:HHC:7-DB

 after consuming some medicine. The matter was reported to the

 police. An entry No. 39 (Ext.PW8/D) was recorded in the Police

 Station. ASI Charanjit Kumar (PW9) and Constable Hardeep

 . Kumar (PW7) were deputed to verify the correctness of

 information. ASI Charanjit (PW9) conducted the inquest on the

 dead body and prepared the reports (Ext.PW5/B and Ext. PW5/C). of
 He clicked the photographs of the dead body (Ext.P1 to Ext.P3). Dr Ravinder Mohan (PW5) conducted the postmortem
 rt
 examination of Sunita and found that she had not sustained any

 injuries. He preserved her viscera and handed them over to ASI

 Charanjit Kumar (PW9) for chemical analysis. He issued the

 report (Ext.PW5/D). Suresh Kumar (PW1) made a statement

 (Ext.PW1/A), which was sent to the Police Station, where FIR

 (Ext.PW8/A) was registered. SI Mohinder Singh (PW10)

 investigated the matter. He went to the spot and prepared the

 site plan (Ext.PW10/A). ASI Charanjit Kumar (PW9) took the

 photographs (Ext.P4 and Ext.P5) of the spot. SI Mohinder Singh

 (PW10) scraped the vomit of the deceased from the courtyard of

 the house and put it in a container. He put the container in a

 parcel and sealed the parcel with three seals of seal 'A'. He seized

 the parcel vide memo (Ext.PW4/A). He found one tube of Celphos ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 4 2026:HHC:7-DB

 without a lid. He put the tube in a parcel and sealed the parcel

 with three seals of seal 'A'. He seized the parcel vide memo (Ext. PW4/B). SI Mohinder Singh (PW10) filed an application (Ext. . PW6/A) for obtaining the marriage certificate. Rakesh Kumar

 (PW6) issued the marriage certificate (Ext.PW6/B). The case

 property was sent to SFSL for chemical analysis. The result (Ext. of
 PW5/E) was issued, mentioning that Phosphine gas was detected

 in the viscera, vomit and tube labelled as Celphos. No other
 rt
 poison could be detected in the case property. Dr Ravinder

 Mohan (PW5) issued the final opinion that the cause of death was

 Aluminum Phosphide poisoning, and the probable time between

 the death and the postmortem was 16 hours. The statements of

 witnesses were recorded as per their version, and after the

 completion of the investigation, the challan was prepared and

 presented before the learned Judicial Magistrate First Class,

 Court No. 1, Una, District Una, who committed it to the Court of

 Sessions for trial. 3. Learned Sessions Judge assigned the matter to

 learned Additional Sessions Judge, Una, District Una (learned

 Trial Court). 2026:HHC:7-DB 4. The learned Trial Court found sufficient reasons to

 frame the charges for the commission of offences punishable

 under Sections 498A and 306 of IPC, which were read over and

 . explained to the accused, who pleaded not guilty and claimed to

 be tried. 5. The prosecution examined 10 witnesses to prove its

 of
 case. Informant Suresh Kumar (PW1) and Raj Kumari (PW2) are

 the parents, and Mohinder Kumar (PW3) is the cousin of the
 rt
 deceased. Pinki Devi (PW4) is the sister-in-law/neighbour of the

 accused. Dr Ravinder Mohan (PW5) conducted the postmortem

 examination of the deceased. Rakesh Kumar (PW6) proved the

 marriage certificate. Constable Hardeep Kumar (PW7) carried the

 case property to SFSL Junga. HC Pawan Kumar (PW8) was

 working as MHC with whom the case property was deposited. ASI

 Charanjit Singh (PW9) conducted the inquest on the dead body. SI Mohinder Singh (PW10) investigated the matter. 6. The accused, in his statement recorded under Section

 313 of the CrPC, admitted that he was married to Sunita. He

 denied the rest of the prosecution's case. He stated that Sunita

 was never subjected to any cruelty. The deceased had cordial ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 6 2026:HHC:7-DB

 relation with him. The witness deposed falsely against him. He

 did not produce any evidence in defence. 7. Learned Trial Court held that the evidence on record

 . established that the accused started harassing, maltreating and

 beating the deceased. He used to leave her in her parental home

 on the pretext that he had no means to maintain her. She

 of
 delivered the child in her parental home. The accused did not

 visit her after the delivery of the child. It was duly proved on
 rt
 record that the accused had subjected the victim to cruelty of

 such a nature as was sufficient to drive the deceased to commit

 suicide or cause grave injury to her life. However, the evidence

 did not show that the accused had harassed the victim to such an

 extent that she was left with no option but to commit suicide. Hence, the learned Trial Court acquitted the accused of the

 commission of an offence under Section 306 of IPC but convicted

 him of the commission of an offence punishable under Section

 498A of IPC and sentenced him as aforesaid. 8. Being aggrieved by the judgment and order passed by

 the learned Trial Court, the accused has filed the present appeal

 asserting that the learned Trial Court misread and

 misappreciated the evidence on record. The statement of the ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 7 2026:HHC:7-DB

 informant was not corroborated by any independent witness. Pinki (PW4) specifically stated that she had not heard the noise

 of any quarrel from the house of the accused. She is an

 . immediate neighbour of the accused and the best witness to

 depose about the cruelty. The prosecution relied upon the

 testimonies of the related witnesses to prove its case. The

 of
 ingredients of commission of an offence punishable under Section 498A of IPC were not satisfied, and the learned Trial
 rt
 Court erred in convicting and sentencing the accused. Hence, it

 was prayed that the present appeal be allowed and the judgment

 and order passed by the learned Trial Court be set aside. 9. I have heard Mr Raju Ram Rahi, learned counsel for

 the appellant/accused, and Mr Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy

 Advocate General, for the respondent/State. 10. Mr Raju Ram Rahi, learned counsel for the

 appellant/accused, submitted that the testimonies of the

 prosecution's witnesses are highly vague and general in nature. No particulars of date, time and place were given. Pinki (PW4)

 did not support the prosecution's case. She is the immediate

 neighbour of the accused and the best witness to depose about

 harassment. Learned Trial Court erred in convicting and ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 8 2026:HHC:7-DB

 sentencing the accused. Therefore, he prayed that the present

 appeal be allowed and the judgment and order passed by the

 learned Trial Court be set aside. . 11. Mr Ajit Sharma, learned Deputy Advocate General, for

 the respondent/State, submitted that the prosecution's

 witnesses categorically stated that the accused had harassed and

 of
 beaten the victim. The victim had even confided in her parents

 about the harassment before her death. The plea of the accused
 rt
 that the relationship between him and the victim was cordial

 does not explain the commission of suicide by the deceased. Therefore, he prayed that the present appeal be dismissed. 12. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

 made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 13. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti , (2009) 10 SCC 184: (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 286: 14. Similarly, it was held in Abhishek v. State of M.P. , 2023

 SCC OnLine SC 1083: 2023 INSC 779 that the tendency of false

 implication by way of general omnibus allegations, if left

 unchecked, would result in the misuse of the process of law. It

 was observed: 15. It was held in Achin Gupta v. State of Haryana , 2024 SCC

 OnLine SC 759:2024 INSC 369 that asking a person to face criminal ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 11 2026:HHC:7-DB

 allegations without any specific instance of criminal misconduct

 amounts to an abuse of the process of the Court. It was observed: 16. It was further held that in matrimonial disputes, the

 parents, including the close relatives, make a mountain out of a

 molehill, and every matrimonial conduct amounting to nuisance

 does not constitute cruelty. It was observed: - . 17. Similarly, it was held in Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P., 2024 SCC OnLine SC 127: 2024 (2) SCR 252 that the

 phenomenon of false implication by a general omnibus

 allegation in the case of a matrimonial dispute is not unknown to

 of
 the Court. It was observed: - xxxx ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 14 2026:HHC:7-DB 17. Considering the dicta in Mahmood Ali (supra), we find
 that the High Court, in this case, has failed to exercise due
 care and has mechanically permitted the criminal
 proceedings to continue despite specifically finding that
 the allegations are general and omnibus in nature. The

 . Appellants herein approached the High Court on inter

 alia grounds that the proceedings were re-initiated on
 vexatious grounds and even highlighted the
 commencement of divorce proceedings by Respondent No. 2. In these peculiar circumstances, the High Court had a
 duty to consider the allegations with great care and
 circumspection so as to protect against the danger of

 of
 unjust prosecution." 18. It was laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in
 rt Kailashben Mahendrabhai Patel v. State of Maharashtra , 2024 SCC

 OnLine SC 2621, that general and vague allegations of cruelty

 made against the husband and his relatives are not sufficient to

 constitute cruelty. It was observed: - 10.2 Similarly, dealing with allegations lacking in
 particulars and details, in Neelu Chopra v. Bharti (2009) 10
 SCC 184, this court observed that: In Mamidi Anil Kumar Reddy v. State of A.P. 2024 SCC
 OnLine SC 127, this Court observed that: out a case against the Appellants. The material on

 record neither discloses any particulars of the
 offences alleged nor discloses the specific
 role/allegations assigned to any of the Appellants in

 the commission of the offences. 15. The phenomenon of false implication by way of

 of
 general omnibus allegations in the course of
 matrimonial disputes is not unknown to this Court. In Kahkashan Kausar alias Sonam v. State of
 Bihar , this Court dealt with a similar case wherein
 rt
 the allegations made by the complainant-wife
 against her in-laws u/s. 498A and others were vague

 and general, lacking any specific role and
 particulars. The court proceeded to quash the FIR
 against the accused persons and noted that such a
 situation, if left unchecked, would result in the

 abuse of the process of law." xxxx

 13.1 In Kahkashan Kausar v. State of Bihar (2022) 6 SCC 599,
 this Court noticed the injustice that may be caused when

 parties are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial
 based on general and omnibus allegations. The relevant
 portion of the observation is as under: 19. This position was reiterated in Dara Lakshmi

 Narayana v. State of Telangana , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3682, wherein

 it was observed: 20. This position was reiterated in Geddam Jhansi v. State

 of Telangana , 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263, wherein it was observed: 21. The prosecution evidence has to be appreciated as per

 the parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 2026:HHC:7-DB 22. The informant's initial statement (Ext.PW1/A) does

 not mention any act of cruelty. It only mentions that the victim

 angrily told the informant that she had no relation with him, and

 . when he made inquiries, she told him that the informant had

 pushed her away. He counselled the accused. The accused had

 earlier beaten and harassed the victim. This statement does not

 of
 specify the date of the beatings or the nature of the harassment. The informant made a general statement that the accused had
 rt
 beaten and harassed the deceased, which is not sufficient as per

 the judgments of the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 23. Informant Suresh Kumar (PW1) stated that the

 deceased was annoyed and did not talk to him or his wife. She

 said after repeated asking that her life was ruined by marrying

 her to the accused. Vipin Kumar (accused) used to beat and

 maltreat her. She also told the informant that the accused had

 demanded money from her for the construction of his house. The

 informant advised Sunita and the accused to maintain a

 respectful and harmonious relationship. The accused assured the

 informant not to beat Sunita. The accused had neglected Sunita

 from the very beginning. He used to leave her in her matrimonial

 home. He started beating her 5-6 months before the birth of her ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 22 2026:HHC:7-DB

 daughter. He had left her in her matrimonial home during her

 pregnancy and took her after 11 months of the birth of the child. The accused did not pay any maintenance to her. . 24. The statement made by him regarding the beatings

 given by the accused to the deceased, pressurising her to bring

 money for the construction of the house, leaving her in her

 of
 matrimonial home during the pregnancy and beating her 5-6

 months before her death is clearly an improvement because such
 rt
 facts were not mentioned by him in his initial statement. He was

 duly confronted with his previous statement recorded by the

 police, which was proved by SI Mohinder Singh (PW10), who

 specifically stated in his cross-examination that no demand for

 money, or no complaint of improper maintenance of the

 deceased, was revealed to him during the investigation. Therefore, no reliance can be placed upon the informant's

 statement. 25. The informant admitted in his cross-examination

 that he had not made any complaint to the police or the

 Panchayat regarding the maltreatment or beatings given to the

 deceased. He volunteered to say that he wanted to protect the

 honour of the family. This is no explanation at all. His daughter ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 23 2026:HHC:7-DB

 was beaten and subjected to cruelty, and it is difficult to believe

 that he would have remained silent or allowed the victim to

 remain in her matrimonial home to endanger her life after the

 . disclosure of any cruelty. He did not state that he had made any

 payment to the accused pursuant to the demand made by her. Hence, his contemporaneous conduct does not support his

 of
 statement regarding the cruelty, and it is difficult to rely upon his

 testimony to conclude that the deceased was subjected to cruelty. 26.
 rt
 Raj Kumari (PW2) stated that the accused did not

 treat the deceased properly. He used to leave her in her

 matrimonial home. He left the deceased in her matrimonial home

 when she was two months pregnant. The accused took her with

 him when the child was 11 months old. The accused kept the

 deceased nicely for one month and thereafter left her in her

 matrimonial home by saying that he was unable to meet her

 expenses. The accused did not pay anything at the time of

 delivery of the child. The deceased informed her that the accused

 had beaten her (the deceased). She (Raj Kumari) and the

 informant went to the house of the accused. The deceased did not

 talk to them. Deceased revealed on their asking that she

 (deceased) was beaten by the accused, and she (deceased) had ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 24 2026:HHC:7-DB

 sustained injuries. Raj Kumari questioned the accused, and the

 accused apologised. She stated in her cross-examination that she

 did not remember having disclosed to the police about leaving

 . the deceased in her matrimonial home, non-payment of the

 maintenance or raising the demand. She volunteered to say that

 she was perplexed due to the death of her daughter. The fact that

 of
 this witness has not told anything about the police regarding the

 harassment and leaving the deceased in her matrimonial home
 rt
 shows that she was improving upon her earlier version, and such

 a statement could not have been relied upon. 27. Mohinder Kumar (PW3) is the cousin of the deceased. He stated that the informant used to tell him about the demand

 for dowry and the beatings given to her (deceased) by the

 accused. He told his uncle Suresh to visit the house of the accused

 and advise him not to harass and beat the deceased. He stated in

 his cross-examination that he did not remember telling the

 police about the deceased remaining in her matrimonial home for

 11 months. He had told the police about the demand for dowry,

 but it was not mentioned. He admitted that he never went to the

 house of the accused to talk to him. 2026:HHC:7-DB 28. The testimony of this witness is not satisfactory. He

 has not given the particulars and nature of the demand for dowry. He has not mentioned the date when the deceased had told him

 . about the beatings given to her. He did not visit the matrimonial

 home of the deceased even after coming to know that she was

 being beaten. He is a cousin of the deceased and is interested in

 of
 her welfare. The fact that he never visited the deceased after

 coming to know of the maltreatment would make it suspicious
 rt
 that the deceased had narrated any incident to him. 29. Pinki Devi (PW4) is the neighbour of the accused. She

 specifically denied that she had not heard the noise of the quarrel

 on 07.05.2012 or before that. She was permitted to be cross- examined, and she denied the previous statement recorded by the

 police. She admitted in her cross-examination by learned defence

 counsel that the accused had accompanied her and the deceased

 to the hospital and remained with them throughout the night. Sunita Devi (deceased) used to meet her regularly, and she had

 cordial relation with the accused. The deceased never mentioned

 any harassment by the accused. 30. The testimony of this witness does not support the

 prosecution's case. She is an immediate neighbour of the ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS 26 2026:HHC:7-DB

 deceased and known to her. Her statement that no complaint was

 made to her by the deceased would falsify the prosecution's case

 that the accused was harassing her. . 31. There is no other evidence to support the

 prosecution's case. No injuries were detected by the Medical

 Officer during the postmortem, which falsifies the prosecution's

 of
 version that the accused had beaten the deceased on the night of

 the incident or before that. 32.
 rt
 Learned Trial Court was impressed by the consistency

 in the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses, but failed to

 notice that the informant had not mentioned to the police in his

 initial statement about the cruelty or the harassment. The

 mother and cousin of the deceased had also improved upon their

 version and introduced the fact about the harassment in the

 statement on oath. The medical evidence also did not support the

 prosecution's version regarding the beating because no such

 injury was found on the person of the deceased. Therefore, the

 prosecution's version was not proved beyond a reasonable doubt,

 and the learned Trial Court erred in convicting and sentencing

 the accused. 33. No other point was urged. 2026:HHC:7-DB 34. In view of the above, the present appeal is allowed and

 the judgment and order passed by the learned Trial Court are

 ordered to be set aside, and the appellant/accused is acquitted of

 . the charged offence. The fine, if deposited, be refunded to the

 appellant/accused after the expiry of the period of limitation, in

 case no appeal is preferred, and in case of appeal, the same will

 of
 be dealt with as per the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of

 India. 35.
 rt
 In view of the provisions of Section 437-A of the Code

 of Criminal Procedure [Section 481 of Bharatiya Nagarik

 Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (BNSS)], the appellant/accused is

 directed to furnish personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- with

 one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned

 Registrar (Judicial) of this Court/learned Trial Court, within four

 weeks, which shall be effective for six months with stipulation

 that in the event of Special Leave Petition being filed against this

 judgment, or on grant of the leave, the appellant/accused, on

 receipt of notice thereof, shall appear before the Hon'ble

 Supreme Court. 2026:HHC:7-DB 36. A copy of this judgment, along with the records of the

 learned Trial Court, be sent back forthwith. Pending

 miscellaneous application(s), if any, also stand(s) disposed of. . (Rakesh Kainthla)

 Judge
 1st January, 2026
 (Nikita)

 of
 rt ::: Downloaded on - 01/01/2026 20:39:22 :::CIS