This petition is filed by the petitioners/accused 1

and 2 under Section 438 of Cr.P.C., seeking anticipatory

bail in Crime No. 7/2017 of Jewargi Police Station,

registered for the offences punishable under Sections

409 , 465 , 468 , 474 , 477A r/w Sec. 149 of IPC. 2. Brief facts leading to filing of the complaint are

that, Jewargi Tahsildar filed a complaint alleging that

the Government has provided facility to ration card

holders to link their Aadhaar number to the Ration card

and give their finger print in the service centers to get

coupons. Petitioners are running Internet Café at Kellur

and Ijeri in the name and style 'Vijaylaxmi Internet

Center and Bhagamma Net Café', respectively. The

petitioners have been entrusted with the work of

consumer service center for the said work. While 3 working the said work, petitioners by misusing the

facility has created bogus coupons by linking some

Aadhaar number with some other ration cards and

created bogus coupons to get food grains and kerosene

thereby, they have committed the breach of trust and

cheated the government. On the basis of the complaint,

a case has been registered against the petitioners. 3. Heard the arguments of the learned counsel for

the petitioners and learned High Court Government

Pleader appearing for respondent-State. 4. The main grounds urged by the learned

counsel for the petitioners are that petitioners are

innocent and they have not committed any offence

alleged against them. The offences leveled against the

petitioners are triable by the Court of Magistrate and

are not punishable with death or imprisonment for life.

He would further contend that the alleged offences have

taken place in Fair Price Shops, but not at the instance 4 of the petitioners. He would further contend that he

apprehends his arrest by the police, in the event of

arrest of petitioners, then they will be harassed by the

police authorities. He would further contend that fraud

played can be detected at any time, which is a question

of document. He would further contend that petitioners

are having both movable and immovable properties.

Therefore, there is no chance of he being absconded. It

is further contended that if the petitioners are released

on bail, they are ready to abide by the conditions to be

imposed by this Court and he is ready to offer sureties.

On these grounds, he prays for allowing the petition. 5. On the contrary, learned High Court

Government Pleader appearing for the respondent-State

has vehemently contended that petitioners by misusing

the trust has created the bogus coupons and thereby

they have cheated the Government as well as the public.

The accused-petitioners have committed a social 5 offence, which is considered to be very serious. He

would further contend that still the investigation is

under progress. At this juncture, if the petitioners are

released on bail, there is likelihood of they being

absconded and they may not be available for trial. On

these grounds, he prays for dismissal of the petition. 6. I have perused the FIR, complaint and other

material produced along with the petition and also the

grounds urged in the bail petition. On perusal of the

complaint, the petitioners who were running the

Internet Café at Kellur and Ijeri and to whom the work

of issuing coupons for getting kerosene and food grains

has been entrusted and they have been misused by

linking the Aadhaar number to some other persons'

ration card and thereby they have committed the alleged

offences. Whether the alleged offences have been

committed by the petitioners is a matter which has to be

considered and appreciated only after full investigation 6 has been completed and the trial is held. But, so far as

the evidence is concerned the offences leveled against

the petitioners are not punishable with death or life and

there is no question of tampering any prosecution

documents as they are available at any time. When the

petitioners are having both movable and immovable

properties and they are ready to abide by the conditions

that may be imposed by this Court, then under such

circumstances if petitioners are released on bail by

imposing conditions, it would safeguard the interest of

the prosecution and it would also meet the ends of

justice. 7. For the aforementioned reasons, the petition is
allowed. The respondent-Police are hereby directed to

release the petitioners/accused on bail, in the event of

their arrest, for the above said offences, subject to the

following conditions:-