1. This order shall dispose of the above mentioned two petitions

 wherein petitioners Gagandeep Goyal and Pradeep Kumar, seek grant PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -2- of anticipatory bail in a case registered vide FIR No.09, dated

 28.7.2022, Police Station Economic Offences Wing Vigilance

 Bureau, Ludhiana, under Sections 7 , 7-A , 8 , 12 , 13(2) of Prevention

 of Corruption Act, 1988 (as amended in the year 2018), Sections 409 , 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 120-B IPC ( Sections 65 , 66 , 66-C , 66-D of the

 Information and Technology Act, 2000 added later on). 2. Since, the present case i.e. FIR No.9, dated 28.7.2022, came to be

 registered during the course of investigation of another FIR i.e. FIR

 No.8, dated 14.7.2022, Police Station Vigilance Bureau, Economic

 Offences Wing Punjab, Ludhiana, under Sections 7 , 7-A of the

 Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as amended by the Amendment

 Act, 2018, Section 120-B IPC, it is apposite to briefly refer to the

 facts of the said FIR i.e. FIR No.8. The aforesaid FIR No.8, was

 registered with the specific allegation that Harmeet Singh posted as

 Junior Assistant in Ludhiana Improvement Trust, was demanding

 bribe for himself as well as on behalf of Parveen Kumar, Sales Clerk

 and Kuljeet Kaur, Executive Officer, Ludhiana Improvement Trust,

 for extending undue benefit to private persons in the matter of

 allotment of plots etc. A trap was laid and Harmeet Singh was caught

 red-handed while accepting an amount of Rs.10,000/- as illegal

 gratification which also led to arrest of Parveen Kumar, Sales Clerk

 and Kuljeet Kaur, Executive Officer. 3. During the course of investigation of aforesaid FIR No.8, Kuljeet

 Kaur, Executive Officer, disclosed that she as well as other officials

 of Ludhiana Improvement Trust, had committed various PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -3- embezzlements, manipulations, frauds etc. for the purpose of

 allotment of plots to various individuals, in return for illegal

 gratification. She also disclosed the modus operandi adopted by the

 officials of Ludhiana Improvement Trust. Consequently, the instant

 FIR No. 9, dated 28.7.2022, came to be lodged against 15 accused

 namely Raman Bala Subramanium, Ex-Chairman, Kuljit Kaur,

 Executive Officer, Parveen Kumar, Sale Clerk, Ankit Narang, SDO,

 Gagandeep Goel, Clerk, Sandeep Sharma, PA to Chairman, Manjit

 Singh Sethi (purchaser of plot after manipulation), Sanjeev Jain @

 Sanjay Jain (private property dealer), Manjit Singh (private purchaser

 of one plot after manipulation), Pardeep Kumar (private IT expert),

 Buta Ram, XEN, Engineering Branch, Jagdev Singh, XEN,

 Engineering Branch, Inderjeet Singh, JE Engineering Branch,

 Mandeep Singh, J.E. (O&M Cell), Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana,

 Kamaldeep Singh (owner of plot No.1544-D). 4. It is the case of prosecution that Pradeep Kumar was a computer

 expert and was running a Cyber Cafe at Ludhiana, and that he in

 connivance with the officials of the Improvement Trust, particularly

 Ankit Narang, SDO, used his technical expertise in computers in

 manipulating the bids in e-acution of plots to get the plots allotted to

 their favourites. The case of the prosecution against Gagandeep

 Goyal, Clerk is that he by manipulating the official record had got

 restored, the allotment of plots which had previously been cancelled

 and had transferred ownership of such restored plots in favour of his

 favourites, including Lovely Rani, with whom he had been residing

 as her husband, since long. PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -4- 5. Learned counsel for petitioner-Pradeep Kumar has submitted that he

 has falsely been implicated in the present case and that although, the

 allegations are to the effect that he, with his technical expertise, had

 hacked e-auction portal, but the said e-auction portal is a highly

 reliable software, which is used by several agencies, across the entire

 nation, and there has been no such instance of hacking, till date. 6. Learned counsel representing Gagandeep Goyal has submitted that

 there is no evidence worth credence to establish the allegations

 against the petitioner of having committed any forgery or fraud for

 the purpose of transfer of ownership of any plot and that Lovely

 Rani, to whom one such plot is stated to have been transferred is not

 the wife of the petitioner, as is being alleged by the prosecution. 7. Opposing the petitions, the learned State counsel has submitted that

 the evidence which has been collected during the course of

 investigation clearly shows the involvement of the petitioners. It has

 been submitted that petitioner-Pardeep Kumar, who was proficient in

 operating computers and was running a Cyber Cafe, had connived

 with officials of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust, and that since

 Ludhiana Improvement Trust, had been conducting online auctions of

 plots through e-auction portal, therefore, whenever any prospective

 bidder used to contact Ankit Narang, SDO, Ludhiana Improvement

 Trust, he used to refer such prospective bidder to the petitioner who

 was running a Cyber Cafe for the purpose of preparing his digital ID

 to enable him to participate in the online auction proceedings and that

 the petitioner while preparing such digital ID used to specifically PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -5- instruct such prospective bidder not to change the password and that

 when the e-auctions were conducted, the present present petitioner in

 connivance with the officials of Ludhiana Improvement Trust, used

 to get plots allotted in favour of their favourites by making a nominal

 increase in their bids. 8. Learned State counsel has further submitted that in some cases, the

 petitioner with his expertise in computers and having passwords used

 to inflate the bids multiple times, made by innocent bidders inasmuch

 as bids in terms of lakhs used to be inflated to bids worth crores and

 consequently, such innocent bidders, upon being declared the highest

 bidder had to get the earnest amount forfeited. The learned State

 counsel submitted that as a matter of fact, several complaints had

 been made in this regard including complaints by Parkash Chopra,

 Advocate, Sarbjinder Singh Bhullar, Sanjay Kumar, Seema Rani etc.

 to ex-Chairman Shri Raman Bala Subramanium, who himself was

 also involved in the scam but no action was taken on the basis of said

 complaints. It has also been informed that on one occasion the

 petitioner in connivance with the officials managed to get a property

 measuring 3.79 acres in Model Town Extension, sold through e-

 auction at a throw away price. 9. Learned State counsel while opposing the petition on behalf of

 Gagandeep Goyal has referred to several instances where the

 allotment of plots which had originally been cancelled, on account of

 non-payment, were got restored and allotted by presenting impostors

 in place of the original allottees. The necessary formalities were got PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -6- completed through impostors and thereafter re-sold the plots to their

 favourites. The learned State counsel has drawn the attention of this

 Court to the Aadhaar Card of Veedhi Goel wherein she is referred to

 as daughter of Gagandeep Goyal and also to the Aadhaar card of

 Lovely Rani wherein she is referred to as wife of Gagandeep Goyal

 and the address of both said persons is the same i.e. H.No.528/64,

 Block J, BRS Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Ludhiana. The learned State

 counsel has also referred to the information collected from the

 service provider Airtel with respect to mobile number of Lovely Rani

 i.e. phone number 76578-88689 wherein also Lovely Rani has

 disclosed herself to be wife of Gagandeep Goyal. 10. This Court has considered the rival submissions. 11. As far as petitioner-Pradeep Kumar is concerned, the evidence

 collected by the police during investigation clearly shows that the

 petitioner with his expertise in computers and in connivance with the

 officials of Ludhiana Improvement Trust, particularly SDO Ankit

 Narang, used to prepare IDs for prospective bidders who were

 referred to him by Ankit Narang and cleverly told them not to change

 their passwords and later on with the help of the said passwords used

 to facilitate his favourites to be successful in the bids by making a

 marginal increase in their bids and sometimes in order to defeat the

 auction proceedings, he along with officials used to highly inflate the

 bids so that such bidder does not pay the amount. The custodial

 interrogation of the petitioner-Pradeep Kumar would certainly be

 required to unearth the finer details of the modus operandi, PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -7- particularly when it is a case where the computer software and

 computer expertise has been used for the commission of offence.

 Petitioner-Pardeep Kumar, as such does not deserve the concession of

 anticipatory bail. 12. As regards petitioner-Gagandeep Goyal, the documentary evidence

 against him clearly shows that he had adopted a novel modus

 operandi for allotment of some plots to his favourites. It has been

 shown that there were some cases where the plots allotted to some

 allottees had been cancelled on account of non-payment or for other

 reasons. However, later when One Time Measure Policy came into

 existence so as to enable such allottees to get their plots restored/re-

 allotted, the petitioner-Gagandeep Goyal, who was posted as Sales

 Clerk in Ludhiana Improvement Trust, got such plots restored by

 putting-forth some impostors, who represented themselves to be such

 original allottees whose plots had been previously cancelled and after

 getting the requisite formalities completed, the cancelled plots were

 allotted in the names of such original allottees and later such

 impostor allottees transferred such restored plots in name of their

 favourites. Some of the instances, as discovered during the course of

 investigation are mentioned as under: iii. Plot No.181 measuring 662 Sq. Yds, Transport Nagar
 Scheme, Ludhiana

 The said plot was initially allotted in the name of M/s
 Carvaan Goods Carrier, but was cancelled vide order dated
 14.1.1988. Although M/s Carvaan Goods Carrier, had filed a
 writ petition in the High Court, but was dismissed.
 Subsequently, false notings were prepared and a resolution
 number No.174 dated 19.10.2021 was passed and the plot
 was shown to be restored in the name of one Waryam Singh
 who had no concern with the said plot, which had been
 cancelled 40 years back. 13. The aforesaid instances apart from other instances clearly show the

 active involvement of the petitioner. Plot number 10-G/40 has been

 allotted in favour of none else but petitioner's wife. As such, the

 custodial interrogation of the petitioner would be necessary to

 unravel the other instances of frauds committed by the petitioner. PANKAJ KAKKAR 2023.01.24 17:41 I attest to the accuracy and authenticity of this document CRM-M Nos.53126 & 58835 of 2022 (O&M) -9- 14. Both the petitions, as such, merit dismissal and are hereby dismissed. 15. A photocopy of this order be placed on the file of each connected

 case.