1. Vide this judgment, I shall decide the present suit under
 S. 134 & 135 read with S. 27 (2) of Trademarks Act, 1999
 for the relief of permanent injunction to restrain
 infringement of trademark, copy right, passing off,
 damages, rendition of accounts, delivery up etc., filed by
 plaintiff against the defendant. 2. At the outset, it must be mentioned that initially, the
 present suit was filed as non-commercial suit before the
 concerned Court of Ld. Additional District Judge, Patiala
 House Courts, New Delhi. During the course of trial, the
 case was received by this Court by way of transfer, on
 16-07-2022 in view of Order No.17016-17031/Judl./
 NDD/ PHC/2022 dated 05-7-2022 of the then
 Ld. Principal District & Sessions Judge, New Delhi
 District, PHC and consequent upon the directions of
 Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the case titled as 'Vishal
 Pipes Limited v. Bhavya Pipe Industry' FAO-IPD
 No.1/2022 & CM APPLs. No. 12-14/2022
 dated 03-6-2022. BRIEF FACTS OF THE CASE: 3. The case of the plaintiff, as set out in the plaint, is as
 under:- Details thereof have been given in Para no.8 of
 the plaint. 3.6 It is further averred that art works involved in the
 plaintiff's said Trademarks/Labels are original
 artistic works and the plaintiff is the owner and
 proprietor of the Copyright therein within the
 meaning of Indian Copyright, 1957. The plaintiff
 company has the exclusive right to deal with the
 said Trademarks/Labels/Trade Names and has been
 so dealing with them in the course of trade in
 relation to its said goods and business, inter alia,
 within the meaning of Section 14 of the Copyright
 Act 1957. 3.7 Further, it is averred that the plaintiff has regularly
 and continuously been promoting it's said
 distinctive Trademarks /Labels and the goods and
 business thereunder through extensive
 advertisements, publicities, promotions and
 marketing & marketing research and the plaintiff
 has been spending enormous amounts of money,
 efforts, and time thereon. The plaintiff has been
 doing so through various means and modes
 including through the visual, print, electronic media,
 in leading Newspapers, trade literature, magazines,
 over the internet etc. and all of which have
 tremendous reach, availability and circulation world
 over including in India. 3.8 It is claimed that with the advent of e-commerce and
 consumers becoming increasingly mobile and CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 5 of 36 -6- global, the plaintiff continued to invest in digital
 commerce. It is stated that the plaintiff adopted the
 said BURBERRY trademark/ label as an essential
 and material part of its email id and domain name.
 It is stated that www.burberry.com is the brand's
 largest store in terms of traffic and sales, servicing
 44 countries in 11 languages. To complement
 Burberry.com, the plaintiff partnered with
 third-party digital retailers including existing
 wholesale partners as well as Amazon and Tmall, to
 provide an authentic, consistent brand experience
 and to enable Burberry products to reach a wider
 customer audience. 3.9 Thus, it is claimed that the plaintiff's products are
 sold globally through its stores and website i.e.
 www.burberry.com, as well as through third-party
 wholesale customers, both offline and online. 3.10 It is further claimed that the plaintiff maintains the
 highest standard of quality in relation to its goods
 and business under the said Trademarks/ Labels/
 Trade Name. The plaintiff invests heavily in R & D
 and its products are known for their highest
 standards of quality, safety, innovation and
 reliability and there is an ever- increasing demand
 thereof. The products of the plaintiff have been
 widely recognized throughout the world for CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 6 of 36 -7- excellence in the creation of contemporary
 clothing designs. 3.11 It is further the case of the plaintiff that the
 plaintiff's said BURBERRY trademarks/labels have
 all become distinctive, associated and have acquired
 secondary significance with the plaintiff and
 plaintiff's said goods and business. The purchasing
 public, the trade and industry at large worldwide and
 in India, identify and distinguish the plaintiff's said
 goods under the said BURBERRY trademark/label
 with the plaintiff and from the plaintiff's source and
 origin alone and regard them as high quality
 products exclusively as that of the plaintiff. Hence,
 it is claimed that plaintiff's said goods and business
 are known, recognized, demanded, sold and traded
 world over with reference to its said BURBERRY
 trademark/label. The members of the trade, industry,
 the consumers and general public at large world
 over and in India are well aware of the plaintiff, the
 plaintiff's said BURBERRY trademark/label and the
 plaintiff's said goods and business thereunder.
 The plaintiff's said BURBERRY trademark/label is
 a well-known Trade Mark within the meaning of Section 2 (1) (zg) of the Act. 3.12 It is further averred that due to extensive media
 coverage through newspaper advertisements,
 articles, television programs, fashion events and CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 7 of 36 -8- their telecast which have circulation in India or
 footfalls in India as well as on account of
 millions of Indians traveling abroad and, getting
 exposure to said goods of the plaintiff under the
 said BURBERRY trademark/ label and
 advertisements in magazines and hoardings as
 well as through members of fashion industry, the
 said BURBERRY trademark/label of the plaintiff
 enjoys spillover and trans-border reputation in
 India since several decades. It is stated that the
 plaintiff has its exclusive store at DLF Emporio
 Mall, Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj II,
 Vasant Kunj, New Delhi, Delhi 110070 and
 screenshot thereof has been depicted in Para
 no.17 of the amended plaint. 3.13 It is further averred that on account of its good
 quality and standards of manufacturing and untiring
 efforts in advertising and marketing, the goods of
 the plaintiff under the said trademarks/ labels /
 copyrights, have acquired enviable reputation and
 goodwill in business community and public in
 general and in view of the plaintiff's proprietary
 rights, both under statutory and common law, in its
 said trademarks/ labels and their goodwill &
 reputation, the plaintiff has the exclusive right to the
 use thereof and nobody can be permitted to use the
 same or any other deceptively similar CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 8 of 36 -9- trademark/label in any manner whatsoever in
 relation to any specification of goods without the
 leave and license of the plaintiff. 3.14 It is alleged that the defendant is engaged in
 manufacturing, marketing, selling, trading, use,
 soliciting, and networking of perfumes, fragrances,
 essential oils, attars, scents, aromatics and other
 allied/related products (hereinafter referred to as the
 'impugned goods and business'). It is alleged that
 the defendant has recently adopted and started using
 the impugned trademarks / labels 'RF

 BROWNBERRY / and
 [hereinafter referred to as the 'said impugned trade
 marks/ labels RF BROWNBERRY']. 3.15 The plaintiff has alleged that in the first week of
 July 2021, the plaintiff was astonished to come
 across the impugned goods of the defendant bearing
 the impugned trademark/label RF BROWNBERRY

 and being surfaced at
 online platforms like defendant's own website under
 the name of www.ramcoproducts.com, and upon
 other marketplace websites like
 https://zopboard.com. 3.16 It is further alleged that the plaintiff was further
 taken aback when it conducted a public search and
 came to know about the defendant's impugned
 trademark/ label, which was published in Trademark
 Journal under number 1995-0 in Year 2021.
 Thereafter, the plaintiff filed a Notice of opposition
 against the impugned trademark/label "R F

 BROWNBERRY, " of the
 defendant under opposition number 1115908 on
 July 22, 2021. 3.17 It is further alleged that the defendant is not only
 making retail sales, but is also supplying the
 impugned goods bearing the impugned trademark/
 label to various dealers/ shopkeepers/ retailers
 including in New Delhi Area, who are making
 clandestine and surreptitious sales thereof in the
 market of New Delhi Area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market, Vasant Vihar, Lodhi
 Colony, Sarojini Nagar, Bengali Market, Naraina,
 Mandir Marg etc. within the jurisdiction
 of this Court. Thus, it is stated that the
 defendant is allegedly carrying out the
 impugned activity in clandestine and surreptitious
 manner, as no formal invoice is issued by the
 defendant. 3.18 Thus, it is alleged that the defendant has dishonestly
 and malafidely adopted the said impugned
 trademark/label RF BROWNBERRY, which is
 visually, and structurally identical and/or
 deceptively and confusingly similar to the registered
 trademark/label i.e. BURBERRY belonging to the
 plaintiff, thereby causing confusion and deception
 amongst the unwary purchasing public and traders
 by making them believe that the origin of those
 goods is the plaintiff company. It has been averred
 that by doing so, the defendant is not only damaging
 the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff company
 by passing off his substandard products as that of
 the plaintiff company, but is also causing financial
 loss to the plaintiff company by reaping unfair
 advantage of the repute and distinctive character of
 the trademarks of the plaintiff company. 4. On these grounds, the plaintiff has filed the present suit
 against the defendant praying therein, inter alia, that
 decree of permanent injunction may be passed restraining
 the defendant and all others acting for and on his behalf
 from using the said impugned trademark / label RF
 BROWNBERRY or any other word mark/ trademark/
 label, which may be identical with and/ or deceptively
 similar to the plaintiff's said trademark / label
 BURBERRY in relation to similar goods, thereby CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 11 of 36 -12- infringing plaintiff's registered trademarks, copyright and
 passing off their products as that of the plaintiff. 5. The suit was accompanied with various applications,
 inter alia, one under Order XXXIX Rule 1 & 2 CPC seeking ex parte ad interim injunction. After hearing the
 counsel of plaintiff, the said application was allowed,
 thereby granting an ex parte ad interim injunction in
 favour of the plaintiff, vide common order dated
 07-01-2022 passed by Ld. ADJ-04, Patiala House Courts,
 New Delhi. 6. On being served with the summons of the suit, the
 defendant put his appearance through counsel. 7. At this juncture, it may be noted that the present case was
 received by this Court on 16-04-2022, as already noted
 above in Para no.2, and an application under Order VI Rule 17 CPC was moved on behalf of the
 plaintiff seeking amendment of the suit, thereby enhancing
 specified value to be above ₹3,00,000/-, so as to bring the
 present suit within the ambit of the Commercial Courts
 Act, 2015 , in view of the directions of Hon'ble Delhi High
 Court in case of Vishal Pipes Limited (supra).The said
 application was allowed and the defendant was directed to
 file written statement to the amended plaint within 30 days
 from the date of the said order,vide order dated
 02-12-2022, passed by Ld. Predecessor of this Court. In CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 12 of 36 -13- pursuant thereto, written statement was filed on behalf of
 defendant. 8. In his written statement, the defendant has taken various
 preliminary objections, inter alia that:- 14. It may be noted that after framing the issues,
 while exercising the power conferred under Order XVA
 Rule 6(o) and (p) CPC , the Court had directed that the
 evidence shall be recorded by Ld. Local Commissioner,
 appointed by this Court on commission basis, vide order
 dated 19-09-2024 (supra). Accordingly, the plaintiff and
 the defendant were directed to lead their respective
 evidence before Ld. Local Commissioner, in terms of the
 timeline/ scheduled framed therein. In pursuant thereto, the
 plaintiff led its evidence by way of affidavit of PW1
 Sh. Anand Kumar Arya, before Ld. Local Commissioner, CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 16 of 36 -17- however, despite availing two opportunities to cross-
 examine PW1, the defendant failed to cross-examine the
 said witness and consequently, the opportunity of
 defendant to cross-examine said PW1, was closed vide
 order dated 16-12-2024, passed by this Court. 15. PW1 Sh. Anand Kumar Arya led his examination-in-chief
 by way of affidavit [Ex.PW1/A] and deposed in terms of
 the facts of the plaint and has relied on the following
 documents:- 16.02.2021 of the plaintiff's
 constituted attorney 11. Affidavit under Order XI Rule 6 (3) Ex. PW1/B CPC in support of Electronic Record
 Documents. 16. On statement of counsel of plaintiff, PE was closed vide
 order dated 16-12-2024, passed by this Court. 17. Despite grant of sufficient time and number of
 opportunities, the defendant failed to lead his evidence CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 18 of 36 -19- either before Ld. Local Commissioner or before this Court,
 and thus, DE was closed vide order dated 25-3-2025,
 passed by this Court. 18. It may be noted here that during the course of final
 arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff made statement to give
 up prayers/ reliefs as prayed in Prayer Clause Nos. 35(b),
 35(c) and 35(d) of the amended plaint regarding restraining
 the defendant from disposing off or dealing with his assets,
 rendition of accounts on loss of business and delivery up,
 respectively. Accordingly, the plaintiff was permitted to
 give up the said reliefs, vide order dated 25-03-2025,
 passed by this Court. 19. It may be noted that after hearing final arguments on
 behalf of plaintiff, the case was posted for today i.e.
 28.3.2025 for clarification/ judgment, with liberty to
 defendant to advance oral arguments or file written
 synopsis on or before the date of judgment, with advance
 copy thereof to the opposite side, failing which, it was
 made clear that the matter shall be decided on the basis of
 material available on record. Despite such direction, none
 has appeared on behalf of defendant to advance oral
 arguments, nor written submission has been filed till date. 20. I have already heard Ld. counsel of the plaintiff. I have
 also gone through the material available on record
 including the plaint and the evidence, oral as well as
 documentary, led from the side of the plaintiff. ISSUE WISE FINDINGS 21. My issue wise findings are as under:- 22. Firstly I shall take up the issue no. (i), which is reproduced
 hereunder:- 23. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has argued that
 the entire testimony of PW-1 has remained unchallenged
 and un-rebutted from the side of defendant and therefore,
 the plaintiff company is entitled to the decree, as prayed
 for. In support of his submissions, Counsel also relied
 upon the documents [Ex.PW1/1 to Ex.PW-1/10 and
 Ex.PW1/B.]. 24. Further, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel of plaintiff that the
 trademarks/labels BURBERRY are well known
 trademarks of the plaintiff and are registered in India under
 various classes of the Trademark Rules 2002, which are
 valid and subsisting in favour of the plaintiff company till
 date. Further, the art works involved in the trademarks/
 labels is original artistic work and the plaintiff holds
 copyright therein. Further, it is submitted that the plaintiff
 spends huge amount of money in advertising and CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 20 of 36 -21- promotion of its products and said marks enjoy a huge
 goodwill and reputation in business community and public
 in general in India and across the world. 25. Further, he submitted that the use of impugned
 trademarks /labels in similar goods as adopted by the
 defendant, is identical and/ or confusingly or deceptively
 similar to the registered trademark of the plaintiff i.e.
 BURBERRY and thus, same amounts to not only
 committing fraud upon the plaintiff company, but also
 upon the unwary general public, due to which the plaintiff
 company suffers huge monetary loss and its goodwill and
 reputation is also at stake and therefore, he urged that the
 suit may be decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against
 the defendant, thereby restraining the defendant and all
 others acting for and on his behalf from using the said
 impugned trade-mark/ label. 26. As regards jurisdiction of this Court, it is submitted by Ld.
 Counsel of plaintiff that the defendant is selling,
 marketing, supplying, soliciting the impugned goods and
 business under the impugned trademark/label through
 online marketplaces from its own website
 www.ramcoproducts.com and other marketplace websites
 like https://zopboard.com/, which are stated to be
 interactive in nature and goods can be sold, purchased and
 delivered through them to any place including the place
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. It is also
 argued that the defendant is making clandestine and CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 21 of 36 -22- surreptitious sales, offering for sale, and are also
 supplying, purveying, displaying, and soliciting, has
 intention to use/sell/solicit his impugned goods and
 business under the impugned trade mark/label in New
 Delhi Area viz. Connaught Place, Gole Market, Vasant
 Vihar, Lodhi Colony, Sarojini Nagar, Bengali Market,
 Naraina, Mandir Marg etc. adjoining areas i.e within the
 jurisdiction of this Court and thus, the defendant is
 committing the impugned acts of infringement and
 passing-off in the said markets of New Delhi Area by
 using, selling, soliciting, trade, distribution, and marketing
 networks in relation to the impugned goods under the
 impugned trademark/label. The plaintiff's above-said
 proprietary rights are being prejudicially affected or likely
 to be so affected in New Delhi due to the defendant's
 impugned activities. Thus, it is vehemently argued that the
 cause of action for filing the present suit either in whole or
 in part arose within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court
 within the meaning of Section 20 CPC. 27. Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has also argued that plaintiff's said
 goods and business under the said trademark are otherwise
 commercially available in the course of the trade within
 the jurisdiction of this Court. The plaintiff is working for
 gain as also carrying on its said goods and business under
 the said trademark in New Delhi through its exclusive
 store in New Delhi at Emporio Mall, Nelson Mandela
 Marg, Vasant Kunj II, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110070, CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 22 of 36 -23- and also through online marketplaces like AMAZON,
 FLIPKART, MYNTRA, NYKAA, SHOPPERS STOP etc.
 Thus, it is vehemently argued that the plaintiff is carrying
 out its said business under the said Trademark/Label
 within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court through its
 various authorized dealers and distributors, as also through
 various online marketplaces which are interactive in nature
 and goods can be sold, purchased, delivered within the
 jurisdiction of this Court. The plaintiff is also soliciting
 through its official website https://in.burberry.com/ and its
 official pages on Instagram, YouTube, X (Twitter), etc.
 Thus, it is contended that this Court further has also
 territorial jurisdiction to entertain and try the present suit
 within the meaning of S. 134 (2) of the Trademarks Act,
 1999 and also under S. 62(2) of the Copyright Act, 1957. 28. Further, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff has also relied upon
 judgment of Hon'ble Division Bench of our own High
 Court in the case titled as " RSPL Limited v. Mukesh
 Sharma & Anr " reported as 2016 (68) PTC 178 [Del] [DB]
 and judgment in the case of " V Guard Industries Ltd. v.
 Sukan Raj Jain & Anr. " reported as 2021 (87) PTC 333
 [Del]. ANALYSIS & CONCLUSION: 29. As regards jurisdiction, the PW1 has categorically deposed
 in his affidavit in evidence on identical lines of the
 averments made in the plaint. PW1 has proved screenshots CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 23 of 36 -24- showing online presence/ sales of the plaintiff's goods on
 different websites and its stores within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court as Ex.PW-1/4 and Ex.PW1/6
 respectively. As per these documents, it is duly shown that
 the goods of the plaintiff under the said trade mark/ label
 BURBERRY are available on e-commerce websites such
 as Shopperstop and Nykka, apart from the website of
 plaintiff i.e. in.burberry.com, which are stated to be
 interactive in nature through which the said goods can be
 displayed, sold, purchased and deliverable to any place,
 including the place within the territorial jurisdiction of this
 Court. As per Ex.PW1/6, it reflects that 'New Delhi
 Emporio Mall' which is stated to be dealer of the plaintiff,
 and is shown to be operating within the territorial
 jurisdiction of this Court. 30. The PW1 has also proved screenshot showing availability
 of online presence/ sales of the defendant's
 impugned goods and business as Ex.PW1/9, according to
 which, it is also shown that the impugned
 goods bearing impugned trademark BROWNBERRY
 can be purchased through third party e-commerce website
 such as https://zopboard.com/, which is also
 stated to be interactive in nature, through which goods can
 be sold and delivered to any place, including within the
 area of New Delhi, which falls within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court. 31. The whole testimony of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted from the side of the defendant as despite
 grant of sufficient time and number of opportunities, the
 defendant failed to cross-examine PW1 and consequently,
 opportunity of the defendant was closed, as already noted
 above. 32. Therefore, in view of the law as laid down by Hon'ble
 Delhi High Court in cases titled as " Banyan Holding (P)
 Ltd. v. A Murali Krishna Reddy & Anr. " reported as 2009
 SCC OnLine Del 3780; " World Wrestling Entertainment,
 Inc. v. Reshma Collection & Ors. " reported as 2014 (60)
 PTC 452 (Del.) (DB); and "Burger King v. Tekchand",
 reported as 2018 (76) PTC 90 (Del.), the Court is of the
 considered opinion that the plaintiff has been able to
 satisfy the test of purposeful availment of the impugned
 goods under the impugned trade marks/ labels as well as
 its goods under the registered trademarks/ labels being
 available within the territorial jurisdiction of this Court,
 as stipulated in the said judgments delivered by
 Hon'ble Delhi High Court. 33. In view of the foregoing reasons and in the totality of
 the facts and circumstances of the case and in view of
 the above cited judgments and keeping in view the fact
 that evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and
 uncontroverted, the Court is of the considered opinion
 that at least part cause of action has arisen within the
 territorial jurisdiction of this Court and therefore, CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 25 of 36 -26- this Court has territorial jurisdiction to try and entertain
 the suit. Now coming to permanent injunction. 34. Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case titled as " Renaissance
 Hotel Holdings Inc. v. B. Vijaya Sai & Ors ", reported as
 MANU/SC/0066/2022, has laid down law with respect to
 infringement of trademarks, to quote:- 35. It is now well settled law, as also laid down by our own
 Hon'ble High Court in the case titled as 'Shaw Wallace &
 Co. Ltd. & Anr. v. Superior Industries Ltd '. 2003 (27) PTC
 63 (Del) that an infringement of trademarks is to be seen
 from the perspective of a layman, to quote:- Specific averment ought to be made that there are no
 disclaimers imposed on the mark and the mark stands
 renewed. Any licenses and assignments ought to be
 pleaded. (iii) xxxx (iv) In the case of (ii), the party ought to file the LPC
 prior to the commencement of the trial, if any aspect
 of the trademarks registration is being disputed by the
 opposite side" ISSUE NO.3 46. Now I shall decide issue no. (iii) regarding rendition of
 accounts, which is reproduced hereunder:- 47. No finding is required to be given in respect of
 aforesaid issue, in view of statement of counsel of
 plaintiff made on 25-03-2025 regarding giving up the
 relief as prayed in Prayer Clause No.35 (d) of the
 amended plaint regarding rendition of accounts and
 consequent order thereupon. 48. Now I shall decide issue no. (iv) regarding rendition of
 accounts, which is reproduced hereunder:- 49. The initial burden to prove the aforesaid issue was placed
 upon the plaintiff. Apart from PW1, the plaintiff had not
 examined any other witness to prove the aforesaid issue.
 The PW1, in his affidavit in evidence, has not explained
 and stated as to how the plaintiff has quantified the
 damages to be Rs.3,10,000/-, as claimed. 50. During the course of arguments, Ld. Counsel of plaintiff
 was also called upon to make submission on the aforesaid
 aspect, in view of the fact that the plaintiff has not led any
 cogent evidence regarding the quantum of damages, as
 also about the extent of loss of goodwill and reputation of
 the plaintiff. He, in all fairness, submitted that reasonable CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 33 of 36 -34- damages may be awarded in favour of the plaintiff and
 against the said defendant, as the defendant has chosen not
 to lead any evidence or to produce his books of accounts
 during trial. 51. As already noted above, the defendant had put his
 appearance through counsel and filed written statement
 contesting the suit. On the basis of pleadings of the parties,
 issues were framed, however, at the stage of evidence, the
 defendant stopped appearing and neither chose to cross-
 examine PW1, nor led any evidence towards DE to disprove
 the claim of the plaintiff. Thus, no material has been brought
 on record by either of the sides so as to enable the Court to
 quantify the damages. At the same time, it cannot be
 overlooked that the defendant would have definitely earned
 profits by using the impugned trade mark/ labels RF

 BROWNBERRY and on similar
 goods, which is identical and/ or deceptively similar to the
 the registered trade mark / label BURBERRY belonging to
 the plaintiff and same would have resulted in causing loss of
 reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff. Hence, the claim
 made by the plaintiff for award of damages is found to be
 justified under the law. Keeping in view the overall facts and
 circumstances of the case and the relevant averments
 appearing in Para No.32 of the amended plaint to the effect
 that the plaintiff came across impugned products of the CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 34 of 36 -35- defendant under the impugned Trade Marks/ labels in the
 first week of July, 2021, whereas, the present suit has been
 filed in the last week of July, 2021 itself, the Court is of the
 opinion that the plaintiff company is entitled to damages
 quantified as ₹2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lacs only) to be
 recovered from the defendant. It is so ordered accordingly. RELIEF: 52. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, the Court is of the
 view that the plaintiff has been able to prove its case on the
 basis of preponderance of probability. Thus, the suit is
 decreed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendant
 and thus, the following reliefs are granted:- VIDYA
Announced in the open court PRAKASH
 PRAKASH
 Date: DISTRICT JUDGE (COMMERCIAL COURT)-02
 PATIALA HOUSE COURTS, NEW DELHI CS (COMM.)/949/2022 Page 36 of 36