SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Toxic conservative family, how to move out.
DATE: 2022-08-09
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/wk8ino/toxic_conservative_family_how_to_move_out/

--- POST TEXT ---

My parents and brother are extremely conservative and toxic and since covid i came home from bangalore (where i worked before) to delhi, now they don't allow me to move out of their house to gurgaon where i work currently, needless to say life is horrible im not allowed to go anywhere other than neighborhood at 32. I don't want hurriedly change to bangalore as it is not very easy and i want to move to top company now like maang equivalent. The other day i told father and he was like do up down and frowned upon moving out, I had lots of fight with brother (with mother by his side) it drained me out beyond imaginable and since then I have started living on roof room and they serve me food. I am assuming I have may to move out as I want to see North mountains, explore my music channel options, perhaps date (havent quite done it because of my toxic mother) but fear they will stop me physically or fight.

I get depressed thinking about, I had gyno problem all my life got removed at 28 in bangalore surgery was disaster and i have never known what to do about it it's worse than before chest swells like crazy and all hard stuff that pains at 4 years, I wanted to go meet a doc and had to give an excuse that i wanted to return pendrive to office my brother said it's an excuse and got physical and i dropped that appointment with doctor. They have damaged me from childhoods I was in constant heightened anxiety and panic attacks till 19-20 kudos to them and this screwed my hormones at that time I got gyno, I had issues with ejaculation for decades snd I thought I had extreme pois I'm 32 and since I'm living alone I feel it's almost gone, my brother kept calling me names till date derogatory ones racial ones and used to broadcast to cousins and they and few of them called me too I was so insecure although I look like a bit of model lol, they think since they are pro modi they understand everything yes but only politics nothing else. Btw my mother father fought like dogs all our lives every or every other day, father was scientist and mother teacher, they are toxic beyond imagination (father in old age, mother always) , they are very narrow minded humans

I will not come back once I leave now, they ask me to get married but i am not gonna go meet jeevansathi girl pre planned my idea is to date and they think it's all pleasure and sex and it's evil, that's how immature they are at 65, and why I had POIS for decades even when I went to bangalore because it was embedded in our head loving is bad, I was going to be a high achiever but couldn't because of constant every second struggles of pois plus hundreds of their issues, then I dropped few friends I had from college as I thought their english speaking will cause issues with them or something. 
My mother and brother think I'm foolish to be looking for anything outside the family and it's all superficial they expect everything to be family and I defy that not indecently I have needs and wants what about my mental and physical health? then my mother tells me I don't blame you your grandmother was mad you got it from her, everyone takes money from them and go away people false praise them and they do love those glorious praises and then give away money. 
They made me lose my job in covid because they started long home renovation big one balcony around house and then everyday someone will take money and you will fight how much fuck I will physically fight brother he will call me names belittle me tell how great his our childhood friend is who is a unmarried shrewd low IQ pedophile, and disaster of surgery with hopelessness of a solution as no one knows what happened not to mention I'm botched (nipple crater) as well, I have had to put up with so much I'm actually beyond everything now I just want to live alone and I don't want to marry either perhaps move to mountains with my guitar. 

The thing is they will never understand one iota of anything. Btw I earn 40+ lpa only to only suffer in life even in bangalore just to save money they got me yo live with tauji so they didn't have to shell out, I wasted life there too. 

Please suggest the options, as they care nothing about my mental physical well being but at same time are busy finding elder one a match every weekend for 4+ years, and he rejects saying she had relationship, he wants virgin and looks of madhuri and they get their outing as well this way while I am in a jail, my mother thinks I'm mad yes I'm I love to learn music compose sing learn coding exercise she thinks I borrowed it from my grandmother, but I think she's the one who's mad, I also gained lots of weight when I came back and lost 14 lac in crypto scam all because they screwed my brain along with insane startup job and then they used to blackmail me saying I wanted to run away to us with a lady I was in severe depression for 5-6 months and every interview of 100+ interviews I gave I was tortured about the reasons for gap and i being truthful couldn't easily lie but I did and I was taken to last rounds and rejected or gave a different language job or same salary. mother brother they badly blackmailed and fought when they found out I had met someone on first solo vacation. 

Can't top this torture!! If it's hindu culture then screw Hinduism I will adopt no religion going forward I don't want these dumb people to be around me.

Does human life have a value or do hindus think to please their God the parents are allowed to screw children lives and keep them for their old age? Is there any law taking effect to honor a child decision? what stupid country do we live in? Before you say there are laws how to proactively get them to work? like I lost money in scam I got them arrested in their own country with no help from police 100 visits to them but they didn't open up the case the incompetent sarkari babus of honorable Mr. Amit shah!!

Why I decided to come here is because if I had to have a life when will it be if I allow a bit more I will be slave to my parents as none of this will ever end, what purpose does my life has, in all honesty I should have been the front man of rock band like queen cause I can sing both soft ballads to hard core rock songs which is a lost cause in India anyway
I'm a hetro guy