1. The petitioner seeks grant of regular bail in respect of a case

 registered against him vide FIR No.15 dated 29.08.2022 at Police

 Station Vigilance Bureau Range, District Jalandhar, under Sections

 406 , 409 , 420 , 465 , 468 , 471 , 477-A , 120-B IPC and Sections 13(1) A

 read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. 2. The allegations, in nutshell, are that during the course of

 checking/audit of Karnana Multipurpose Cooperative Agriculture

 Society Ltd., Village Karnana, District SBS Nagar, embezzlement to

 the tune of Rs.7,14,07,596.23/- came to notice and it was found that MOHAN SINGH 2023.02.03 15:33 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-4790-2023 (O&M) -2-

 the said embezzlement had been committed by Randhir Singh,

 Committee Member (Ex. President), Sukhwinder Singh, Vice

 President, Ravinder Singh, Committee Member, Mohinder Lal,

 Committee Member, Kanwaljit Singh, Committee Member, Inderjit

 Dhir (Ex. Secretary) and Harpreet, Cashier. It was found that the

 accused were maintaining 2 computers, wherein in one of the said

 computers, the actual entries were being made, but in the other one,

 false entries were being made and the amount which had been

 deposited by the loanees/investors was not being recorded and it is

 the said computer which used to be shown at the time of audit. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he was merely a

 Member of the Society and as such, would not have any role in the

 alleged embezzlement and that it is the then Secretary and the then

 Cashier, namely, Inderjit Singh and Harpreet Singh respectively, who

 are the main accused, who had embezzled the amount in question. 4. Opposing the petition, learned State counsel has submitted that the

 petitioner was very much part and parcel of the entire scam and that

 he was signatory to several resolutions which had been passed

 authorizing Inderjit Singh to withdraw the payments, which would

 clearly show the complicity of the petitioner. Learned State counsel

 has, however, informed that the petitioner as on date has been behind

 bars since the last more than 5 months and that he is not involved in

 any other case. It has also been informed that charges have been

 framed, but none out of cited 40 PWs has been examined so far. 5. This Court has considered rival submissions. MOHAN SINGH 2023.02.03 15:33 I attest to the accuracy and integrity of this document CRM-M-4790-2023 (O&M) -3- 6. The petitioner is specifically named in the FIR and during

 investigation, he is also prima-facie found to be involved in the scam.

 However, this Court finds that the petitioner has been behind bars for

 a substantial period of more than 5 months. Though charges have

 been framed, but none out of cited 40 PWs has been examined till

 date. Conclusion of trial is likely to consume time. In these

 circumstances, further detention of the petitioner, who otherwise has

 a clean record, will not serve any useful purpose. The petition, as

 such, is accepted and the petitioner is ordered to be released on

 regular bail on his furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds to the

 satisfaction of learned trial Court/Chief Judicial Magistrate/Duty

 Magistrate concerned.