SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Paytm scam - "request to pay" edition
DATE: 2024-01-24
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/19dxl2v/paytm_scam_request_to_pay_edition/

--- POST TEXT ---

Faced a new scam today, and almost lost ₹7,000 (but ended up gaining ₹5, read to know more)

&amp;#x200B;

Long story short, I put up a mattress on OLX to be sold for ₹7k. Got a message from a buyer, shared my number. She called and said She'll collect tomorrow from a nearby place, and asked me to share location. I shared the location of a shop in my building. She said she'd like to pay in advance, and I found that weird, but till now I thought it's all legit.

Then she sent me a payment request for ₹5, but made the name of the request "Pay to receive ₹4" and being someone who doesn't use PayTM, I fell for it and sent her the ₹5. Then she sent me ₹5 twice and told me to check, and I got it. I thought this is some new security layer Paytm has added.

Then she handed the phone to an uncle, and he sent me a request to pay of ₹7,000 titled "pay to receive 7000". I found it weird that he's paying ₹7,000 rather than ₹6,995 and alarm bells started ringing in my head, because no Indian would ever pay in advance and that too ₹5 extra.

I checked the message, it was showing payment for a split, where their contri was ₹0 and mine was ₹7,000. Paytm even flashed a pop-up saying "you never have to enter PIN to receive money". I asked him why isn't he simply paying me the amount, the uncle said he's attached his merchant card to a machine that's why it's saying it and was continuously pushing me to pay. I told him that I'll call back and cut the call for some mental space. I checked the ₹5 transactions that the lady had made earlier. They were simply separate transactions that she had made and were not related to my payment at all. Realization hit, and I blocked the number.

A minute later, I got a Whatsapp message from another number, on which the uncle sent me my Whatsapp profile pic, my name, and my maps location link, and he started threatening me in Hindi on text. I blocked all numbers that we was texting and calling from.

Basically, he has my phone number, a dp in which I'm not even visible clearly, and the location of a shop in my building. He also has last 4 digits of my bank account number as that's visible on any UPI transaction. I hope he can't do much with that?

And yeah, I left this ₹5 richer. :D