(ICD-TKD), Exports
Tughlakabad, New Delhi. AND

 Customs Appeal No. 52105 of 2019-SM
(Arising out of order-in-appeal No. CC(A) CUS/D-II/ICD-TKD-Exp/137/2019-20
dated 08.05.2019 passed by the Commissioner of Customs (Appeals), New Custom
House, Near IGI Airport, New Delhi). Shri Y. Singh and Shri Rakesh Kumar, Authorised Representatives
for the respondent

CORAM: Thus, the actual value as per the statement of account is the

transaction value of the goods imported by M/s SRI and others

detailed in Annexure „A‟ to „C‟ to the show cause notice.

5.1 Further, it appeared that appropriate custom duty in

respect of goods imported and cleared was short levied by reason of

collusion, wilful mis-statement and suppression of facts and hence the 5 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

same was recoverable by invoking the extended period of limitation

under Section 28 of the Customs Act, alongwith interest. It appeared

that M/s SRI has suppressed the value resulting into short payment of

custom duty of Rs. 42,69,464/-. 5.2. Further, it appeared that the importer - M/s SRI was

required to declare and affix the correct RSP on the confectionary

goods imported by them, in terms of Legal Metrology (Packaged

Commodities) Rules, 2011 read with Export Import policy and ITC

(HS) read with para 2.2 of the Foreign Trade Policy. However,

admittedly, the RSP was not affixed on any of the packages of the

goods imported, which have also been admitted by M/s SRI - Kewal

Takkar. Such violation of the provision also rendered the goods liable

to confiscation under Section 111(d) of the Customs Act.

5.3. Further, it appeared that M/s SRI entered into conspiracy

with their overseas suppliers through the Representative of the

suppliers in India namely - Shri Kaivan Balsara in case of import from

M/s Repensa A/S, Denmark and M/s Kelsen Group A/S, Denmark and

through Shri Prakash Menon in case of import from M/s Seville

Products Ltd., Dubai. It has further come out in the investigation that

invoice for suppressed value was received by the importers through

normal channel and the second invoice for true value / transaction

value was received by hand by M/s SRI through Shri Kaivan Balsara/

Shri Prakash Menon. On the conclusion of the transaction the second

invoice / parallel invoice was destroyed by the parties to prevent

detection. It was further admitted by Shri Kewal Takkar, Partner of 6 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

M/s SRI that the imported goods were undervalued by 65% to 75%

of the actual value, and also admitted that the differential value was

paid in cash to the Indian Representative. It further appeared that

the parties in collusion with each other have forged and falsified

documents to evade custom duty. 6. Shri Prakash Menon, Indian Representative of M/s Seville

Products Limited, Dubai in his statement recorded on 14.05.2017

inter alia stated that he was looking after sales and marketing of M/s

IFFCO, UAE, parent company of Tiffany Brand and for M/s Seville

Products Limited, Dubai which was a group company of IFFCO. M/s

Seville Products Limited have actually participated in the conspiracy

for evading the custom duty payable to the Government of India by

forging and fabricating two invoices for each consignment, one of

lower value amount for custom clearances and the second with actual

value for account settlement. Further, M/s Seville Products Limited

and others have collected the differential duty through their Indian

representative in cash from the importers. Further, in the course of

investigation M/s Seville Products Limited submitted two sets of

invoices and also submitted the statement of account of M/s SRI as

existing in their books through their representative in India Shri

Prakash Menon. Similarly, M/s Kelsen Group A/S, Denmark which

also includes Repensa A/S, Denmark (Group company) have also

made similar admission of colluding in suppressing the transaction

value for exporting goods to India imported by M/s SRI and others.

Further, they have admitted the similar role in collecting the 7 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

differential value in cash from the importer(s) and have similarly

submitted the copies of the invoices and statement of account

through their Indian representative - Shri Kaivan Balsara and Srikant

Panda. Accordingly, show cause notice dated 16.06.2014 was issued

proposing to reject the transaction value and for re-determination of

value as per the actual transaction value and further demand of

differential customs duty alongwith interest and proposal to impose

penalty on M/s S.R. International. Further, penalty was also

proposed under Section 112(a) of the Act on M/s Seville Products

Limited (appellant), M/s Kelsen Group A/S, Denmark and Shri Kaivan

Balsara, and others. 7. Under similar facts and circumstances in the other appeal,

show cause notice dated 11.08.2014 was issued by the DRI, Mumbai

Zonal Unit, Mumbai proposing to reject transaction value and re-

valuing the same as per the actual value. Further, demand of

differential duty alongwith interest and also proposal for confiscation.

Further, penalty was also proposed under Section 112(a) and (b), Section 114A , 114AA of the Act, on this appellant and others. 8. The exporter - shipper M/s Seville Products Limited,

Dubai was also required to show cause why penalty be not imposed

under Section 112(a) of the Act. 9. The show cause notice dated 16.06.2014 was adjudicated

vide order-in-original dated 06.05.2016 on contest. The appellant

M/s Seville Products Limited, Dubai inter alia, among other grounds 8 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

urged that no penalty was imposable on them as the Customs Act,

1962 does not have extra territorial jurisdiction/application. They

also placed reliance on the following rulings- i) British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. vs. Shanmughavilas
 Cashew Indus.-1990 (3) SCC 481 ii) Hi Lingos Co. Ltd. vs. Collector of Customs -1994 (72) ELT 392,
 which have been affirmed by Hon‟ble Supreme Court at 1997 (95)
 ELT A147, iii) C. K. Kunhammed vs. Collector of Central Excise & Customs -
 1992 (62) ELT 147. iv) Bussa overseas & Properties Pvt. Ltd. Vs. C. L. Mahar -2004
 (163) ELT 304, which is confirmed by the Apex Court, reported at
 2004 (163) ELT A160 (SC). It was further urged that no penalty is imposable on M/s Seville

Products Ltd., as they have not done any act which rendered goods

liable to confiscation under Section 111 of the Customs Act, 1962. 10. The Adjudicating Authority took notice that M/s SRI

(importer) have admitted the allegation and have settled their dispute

before the Settlement Commission, which include M/s SRI and its

Partners, as well as Shri Kaivan Balsara, being Settlement

Commission Final Order No. F-2568-2577/Cus./2015-SC (DB) dated

30.10.2015. 11. As regards this appellant, the finding has been recorded

that the appellant have violated the provisions of the Customs Act,

1962 , through their representative in India - Shri Prakash Menon.

The said representative has produced documentary evidences,

produced or forged by the appellant exporter. Further, the exporting

company have colluded with the importers in India through their 9 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

Indian representative and have further collected the differential

amount of suppressed transaction value in cash, through their

representative. Further, the representative has transmitted such

amount collected in cash from the importer through non-banking

channel (hawala). Thus, the appellant company have played an

active role by colluding with the importers in India in evasion of

customs duty, payable in India. Further, the appellant company have

knowingly colluded and thus abetted with the importers in India in

suppressing the transaction value for evasion of custom duty. The

appellant have knowingly provided two sets of invoices and thus have

abetted in violation of the provisions of Section 111 and other

provisions of the Customs Act , rendering the goods liable for

confiscation and thus penalty under Section 112(a) of the Customs

Act was attracted. 12. So far the issue of jurisdiction raised by the appellant, it is

held in the impugned order that the appellant was having their

representative in India - Sh. Prakash Menon, and the appellant was

actively present in India through the said agent, and have colluded

with the importers in evading the customs duty. The appellant

company booked orders from the Indian importers and further co-

ordinated with the exporting company in Dubai right from the stage of

booking orders and thereafter collecting the differential amount of

transaction value. It has been further found that the appellant

company was active in India through its representative Sh. Prakash

Menon, in the whole modus-operandi for evading the customs duty. 10 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

Further, in terms of Section 147(3) of the Customs Act, which

stipulates that "when any person is expressly or impliedly authorised

by the owner, importer or exporter of any goods to be his agent in

respect of such goods for all or any of the purposes of this Act, such

person shall, without prejudice to the liability of the owner, importer

or exporter, be deemed to be the owner, importer or exporter of such

goods for such purposes including liability therefor under this Act".

Thus, penalty can be imposed on the foreign company through their

Indian representative, Sh. Prakash Menon. Accordingly, the Joint

Commissioner imposed penalty of Rs. 23 lakhs on the appellant

company through their Indian representative Sh. Prakash Menon

under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act, 1962. 13. Being aggrieved, the appellant filed the appeals before

the ld. Commissioner (Appeals) who vide the impugned orders-in-

appeal dated 08.05.2019 & 02.05.2019 have been pleased to dismiss

the appeal upholding the orders-in-original. 14. Being aggrieved, the appellant is before this Tribunal inter

alia on the ground that imposition of penalty is bad as the Customs

Act, 1962 , during the relevant period did not have extra territorial

application. It is further urged that as the importer - M/s SRI have

settled the dispute of differential duty etc. before the Settlement

Commission, this appellant being a co-noticee is also entitled to the

benefit, and their case is deemed to have been settled. For this

proposition, reliance is placed on the ruling of this Tribunal in the case

of S.K. Colombowala vs. CC -2007 (220) ELT 492 (Tri. Mum.) 11 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

wherein this Tribunal held, once the case is settled before the

Settlement Commission in its entirety, then such a case cannot be

adjudicated qua other co-noticee. This Tribunal observed that for the

reason that once the case/ dispute is settled by the Settlement

Commission it is settled in its entirely the case against all the co-

noticees once the order of settlement is passed in respect of the

person entitled to file an application before the Settlement

Commission and accordingly penalty imposed on the co-noticees

cannot be sustained and set aside. This ruling was further followed

by the Tribunal in Windoors (India) vs. CC -2009 (246) ELT 345

(Tri. Mumbai). It is also urged that the Commissioner (Appeals)

have erred in not following the Larger Bench ruling in the case of

S.K. Colombowala (supra) but have erroneously relied on the ruling in K.I. International vs. CC - 2012 (282) ELT 67 relying on the

ruling of Hon‟ble Supreme Court in S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu vs.

Jagannath (1994) 1 SCC 1. Further reliance is placed on

subsequent ruling in the case of CC vs. Mahendra Kumar

Dharewala -2016 (340) ELT 727. Further, urges that penalty

cannot be imposed on the appellant in terms of Section 147(3) of the

Customs Act. Reliance is placed on the ruling of this Tribunal in Collector vs. Jain Exports -1990 (46) ELT 147 (Tri.), wherein it

has been held that the scope of Section 147 cannot be extended

beyond the Customs Act . Further, urged that penalty is not

imposable on the appellant under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act

as the goods have already been cleared for home consumption.

Further, urges that imposition of penalty under Section 112(a) is 12 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

incorrect since the appellant did not do any act or omission in respect

of the goods rendering them liable to confiscation under Section 111 of the Customs Act. Further, reliance is placed on the ruling of

Mumbai Bench of this Tribunal in the case of Prerna Singh and Ors.

vs. Commissioner of Customs and the other appellant Seville

Products Ltd., vs. CCE reported in 2020 (1) TMI 905, wherein

the issue was initially referred to Larger Bench, the Larger Bench held

that when Division Bench decision of the Tribunal was placed before

the ld. Single Member Bench, the Single Member was bound by the

Division Bench decision and the decision of Prerna Singh (supra)

could not have been ignored. Further, the binding ruling of the

Division Bench in the case of Shafeek P.K. could not have been

ignored. Reliance is also placed on the Single member ruling in the

appellant‟s own case reported in 2021-TIOL-2015-CESTAT-CHD.

14.1 It is further urged that the Customs Act, 1962 did not

have extra territorial jurisdiction prior to 2018 amendment. It is

urged that the appellant is a foreign company incorporated in Dubai,

UAE. They do not have any business operation in India and is not

undertaking any commercial activity within India at any point of time.

None of the alleged acts have been committed by the appellant

company in the Indian Territory. The entire amount received by the

appellant company from the Indian importers have been shown in

their books of accounts. It is further urged that the CEO of the

appellant company (Prerna Singh) who appeared before the Customs

Department -DRI during investigation and tendered her statement, is 13 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

also a non-resident Indian. It is urged that Indian statutes / laws are

ineffective against the foreign property and foreigners.

14.2 It is further urged that the show cause notices are bad as

the same are issued by the DRI who do not have any jurisdiction to

issue show cause notice as they are not the proper Officer under the

provisions of the Customs Act . Reliance is placed on the ruling of the

Hon‟ble Supreme Court in the case of Canon India Pvt. Ltd., vs.

Commissioner of Customs- 2021 (3) TMI 384, wherein it has

been held that the power to issue a show cause notice under Section

28 (4) of the Customs Act is on the „Proper Officer‟, which means the

jurisdictional officer who has earlier assessed the goods. It was

further observed that the DRI Officers are not the proper officer as

the original assessment was not done by them. Further relies on the

ruling of Madras High Court in the case of Quantum Coal Energy

(P) Ltd., vs. CC-2021 (3) TMI-1034 (Mad.) and also some other

judgements. It is further urged that in any view of the matter the

case of conspiracy and collusion is not made out and hence penalty

for abetment is not imposable under Section 112(a) of the Customs

Act. 15. Opposing the appeal, learned Authorised Representative

for the Revenue urges as follows:- Prakash Menon by attracting customers through various
schemes including larger profits in the form of short levy of
customs duty by submitting forged invoices and remitting of the
balance payment through hawala transactions. ii) Another submission that none of the alleged acts have
been committed by the appellant within the Indian territory is a
misleading statement, as the offence has been done in the
territorial jurisdiction of India, one in the form of abetment by
act of collusion by submitting forged invoices before the
Customs Authority and secondly by arranging hawala agent to
the importer under the supervision of its Marketing agent Sh.
Prakash Menon, an employee of the appellant company getting
regular salary from the appellant company, officially located in
Mumbai to ensure that the balance payment is made to them. iii) One of the submissions of the appellant that the entire
amount received by them from Indian exporters has been
shown in its books of account to substantiate that they are not
involved in the conspiracy is absurd, as the appellant company
had knowingly and intentially lured such importers with making
larger profits if involved with import from the appellant
company, by submitting two types of invoices and by arranging
hawala agent for the Indian importers to send the balance
payment, thereby abetting in evasion of customs duty in India.
Non imposition of any corporate tax in Dubai and strict penal
provisions as per laws and regulations may be the reason for
them to show the full amount in its books of account. Had
there been any corporate tax they might have shown the
payment only through banking channels and would have
omitted the payment through hawala channels in their books of
account. C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM iv) On the submissions by the appellant as per para 4 that Customs Act did have extra - territorial jurisdiction, the
headlines itself speaks volume. 1A) During the relevant period Section 1(2) of the Customs
Act, 1962 was applicable which reads as below: C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

 C) To clarify the above the Finance Act, 2018 has amended Section 1(2) w.e.f. 29.03.2018, which is reproduced as below: - In this case the offence has been committed in India through the
 employee of the Company registered in Dubai. Preparing two types
 at invoices of Dubai was not offence, till it was submitted before the
 Customs Authority in India, through the Computer of its employee
 Sh. Prakash Menon (stationed in India). Thus the offence was
 committed in India itself and the jurisdictional applicability of the Customs Act is there as it extends to whole of India, as per Sec. of
 the Customs Act, 1962. 16. It is further urged that admittedly the appellant was

present in India through its representative/ agent and thus for their

various acts of omission and commission which include fraud and

forgery for evading the Customs duty to the Government of India, is

liable for penalty under Section 112(a) as they have aided and

abetted the Indian importers in violating the various provisions of the Customs Act , rendering the goods liable for confiscation. It is further

urged that the rulings cited are not applicable in the instant case. 17 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

Further, reliance was placed in the case of Prerna Singh, CEO (supra) of the appellant company, wherein imposition of penalty was

held to be correct and under proper jurisdiction being guilty of aiding

and abetting as prescribed under Section 112(a) of the Act. Further,

reliance is placed on the ruling of the Apex Court in SEBI vs. Pan

Asia Advisors Ltd. and Ors. : MANU/SC/0761/2015. 17. Having considered the rival contentions, I find that the

charge of aiding and abetting have been established against the

appellant company. I further find that the appellant company, though

it was registered having Head Office in Dubai, but it was very much

present in India through its Indian Representative - Sh. Prakash

Menon. I further find that through its Indian Representative, the

appellant company have actively colluded and abetted with the Indian

importers by various acts of commission and accordingly penalty has

been rightly imposed under Section 112(a) of the Act.

17.1 I further find that the facts before the Hon‟ble Supreme

Court in the ruling of Canon India Pvt. Ltd. , (supra) are very

different, inasmuch as there was no case of fraud and the original Bill

of Entry was assessed on first check basis. Wherein in the present

case there is admitted case of collusion and forgery plus concoction of

documents, including presenting and filing of false and incorrect

documents (invoice), to evade Customs duty by the importer and the

appellant company. Further, the present proceedings are for

imposition of penalty and not for demand of duty under Section

28(4) . The show cause notice on this appellant is not under Section 18 C. A. Nos. 51953 & 52105 2019-SM

28(4) of the Customs Act . Fraud vitiates everything. Accordingly, I

uphold the impugned orders and dismiss the appeals. 18. Both the appeals are dismissed. (Pronounced on 07.12.2021). (Anil Choudhary)
 Member (Judicial)
Pant