1. The above case has been Suo Motu registered by this Tribunal on the basis

 of the newspaper report published in The Time of India, Chennai Edition

 dated 27.04.2021 under the caption "Dumping of garbage in Thalambur

 Lake: Locals write to District Collector". Page 2 of 6 2. It is alleged in the newspaper report that indiscriminate dumping of garbage

 is being done in an eponymous lake for the past three years. Apart from

 dumping of garbage into the water body, miscreants are often setting fire to

 it causing air pollution as well. According to the newspaper report, the lake

 attracts many migratory birds and on account of this unlawful activity, it is

 likely to affect the fragile ecological balance in that area. 3. It is also alleged in the newspaper report that the garbage that is being

 collected from the residential and commercial areas and also from the

 hospitals are being dumped in this water body and water from this water

 body is being pumped out for the purpose of providing drinking water in that

 area. Though complaints have been made to the District Collector, no

 proper action has been taken. 4. Dumping of garbage in water bodies is not a permissible activity. The local

 bodies are expected to take steps to collect the solid waste generated in their

 respective areas and dispose of the same in a scientific manner and they are

 not expected to use any part of the water body for this purpose. 5. On going through the allegations made in the newspaper report, we are

 satisfied that there arises a substantial question of environment, which

 requires the interference of this Tribunal. So, the matter is admitted. Page 3 of 6 6. Issue notice to the respondents by Registered post with Acknowledgment

 Due and also by e-mail along with copy of the newspaper report and gist of

 the Suo Motu proceeding with full cause title so as to enable them to comply

 with the direction. 7. Mr. C. Kasirajan through Ms. D. Ashwini represented 4th respondent. 8. Considering the circumstances, we feel it appropriate to substitute the

 Additional Chief Secretary, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj

 Department of State of Tamil Nadu in the place of Additional Chief

 Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu, Municipal Administration and

 Water Supply Department / 3rd Respondent and the Director of Rural

 Development & Panchayat Raj Department and the Engineer-in-Chief of

 Water Resource Organization and Chief Engineer (General) Public Works

 Department are Suo Motu impleaded as additional respondents No.7 & 8

 respectively. 9. The Registry is directed to carry out the amendment in the cause title. 10.In order to ascertain the genuineness of the allegations made in the

 newspaper report, we feel it appropriate to appoint a Joint Committee

 comprising of (1) the District Collector, Chengalpet District or a Senior

 Officer not below the rank of Revenue Divisional Officer/Sub Divisional

 Magistrate as deputed by the District Collector, (2) the Superintending Page 4 of 6 Engineer of Public Works Department & Water Resource Organization who

 is in charge of that area and (3) a Senior Officer from the Tamil Nadu

 Pollution Control Board deputed by its Chairman to inspect the area in

 question and submit a factual as well as action taken report, if there is any

 violation found. 11.If it is found that there is any garbage dumped there, they are directed to

 ascertain the quantum of legacy waste, who is responsible for the same and

 assess environmental compensation, if any damage has been caused to the

 water body. 12.The committee is also directed to ascertain the quality of water by taking

 samples from the water body and analyze to find out as to whether any

 contamination has been caused to the water in the water body. If any

 contamination found, then they are directed to suggest the remedial

 measures to be taken to restore the water quality to its original position. 13.The committee is also directed to ascertain as to whether the direction of the

 Principal Bench of National Green Tribunal in O.A. No.606 of 2018

 regarding the implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016

 is being strictly implemented in the 6th respondent panchayat and if not, what

 is the nature of action taken by the regulators to implement the same. Page 5 of 6 14.The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board will be the nodal agency for co-

 ordination and for providing necessary logistics for this purpose. 15.The committee is directed to submit a report to this Tribunal on or before

 30.06.2021 by e-filing in the form of Searchable PDF/OCR Supportable

 PDF and not in the form of Image PDF along with necessary hardcopies to

 be produced as per Rules. 16.The Registry is directed to communicate this order along with the copy of

 the newspaper report, gist of the Suo Motu proceedings with amended cause

 title to the members of the committee and also to the official respondents by

 e-mail immediately so as to enable them to comply with the direction

 without delay. 17.For appearance of parties, filing independent response and also for

 consideration of report, post on 30.06.2021. Sd/- ....................................J.M.
 (Justice K. Ramakrishnan)

 Sd/- ...............................E.M.
 (Dr. K. Satyagopal)

O.A. No.113/2021,
21st May, 2021. Mn. Page 6 of 6