SUBREDDIT: r/india
TITLE: Scammed by Aakash byjus live classes, need help
DATE: 2024-01-22
SCORE: 1
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/india/comments/19cwg82/scammed_by_aakash_byjus_live_classes_need_help/

--- POST TEXT ---

Long story, please bear with me. I'd really appreciate any help with this. Even if it's a lost cause, I still want more people to be aware of this, so they don't go through what I had to

TLDR at the end

(I meant to post this by December 10,2023 but I got into contact with Aakash, and they kept telling me they'll look into it. Fast forward now, they told me I'd only get 10k back as a partial refund if I decide to cancel the course, more on it in the post, but I also haven't received the books, and no matter how hard I try to contact Aakash, they keep sending me in roundabouts telling me I should talk to the "concerned team")

So I was contacted on October 9 by aakash byjus live classes for enrolling online classes with them, and on October 10, one of the aakash associates, whom I'll call S in this post. He assured me that I could attend the classes for 60 days,and if I don't like it or want to drop out for any other reason, I'll be able to get a complete refund on my amount (I have video proof of it, but more of it later)

So I enrolled and paid him 55k, 52k as tuition fees. But he got 3k from me separately as something he called registration fee.

But it wasn't actually for registration. He used part of that money to pay a teacher to attend my scholarship exam with her name, and they then transferred that scholarship account to my name. I didn't know it until the aakash byjus representatives told me the fees was only 52k

After I asked him about the 3k, he confessed it and told me to keep it a secret. I have payment proof as well.

When I called him about it, he informed me on a mobile call that he'd guarantee my 55k refund if I'm not satisfied with my classes
(Which I unfortunately have no proof of, since the recording voice notification shows up, I didn't record it)

Fast forward to December 10, I raised a cancellation request. During this process, I've tried contacting S, and he started blanking me. I'd call from other numbers and he'd have people pick it up for him, and ask them to call back later. For some reason, he was always "busy with classes", even during off hours. But he'd not pick up if it was me or my father calling. We realised something was off

When we called aakash byjus about this, they informed us it was actually only a partial refund within 60 days, and only a full refund within 15 days

I then tried to reach out to S, and he's absconded. Wouldn't respond to my texts or calls. I couldn't show up to inquire irl since apparently the office is in Bangalore and I'm in Tamilnadu

About the video proof, I have proof of the entire payment and when I asked him during that, that I was informed it was a 15 day trial, he told me he'd make it 60 days instead. That he was providing me the "benefit of 60 days so I can decide more thoughtfully" and when I asked him if I'd get a complete refund by then, he said "yes, you would, from our side"

Now fast forward to this week, when I get a call from the cancellation team and I tell them about this, they refuse to take responsibility, and tell me I should contact S instead about this. When I informed them about the video proof, they asked me for it

The senior cancellation executive was very rude outright. When I sent him the proof, he dismissed it as "me cutting him off in the middle and asking it" and him saying "yes" was responding to me cutting him off, when it was clearly not a case of a mistake. He also mentioned how he never mentioned the word "full refund" from his mouth, and I was the one that asked him instead. Now they tell me I'd only get a partial refund because I should've gotten a bill and I should've read the terms and conditions. (I'll DM the video if anyone wants to see it)

As far as I could recall, I wasn't sent the terms and conditions (while the aakash executive tells me he has proof of him sending it), and the only proof of payment I had was the video of me making the transaction with his facecam and screenshare enabled, I wasn't sent a bill really, but I did have proof of payment to aakash byjus via the credit card statement and screen recording 

(Later, I was sent a bill but it was in the name of the person that attended the scholarship exam in my place, arranged by S)

(Apparently, S has accepted the terms and conditions in my name and asked me for the OTP, I was unaware something of this sort was happening)

They keep mentioning it's their policy and I wouldn't be able to get a full refund, nor are they willing to acknowledge this scam that seems to be happening behind the scenes (the people paying the teachers to attend student scholarship exams, that's how they could make the fees price that low, because of the scholarship discount). They tell me I should ask S for the refund instead, because he was the one that assured me. They also mention that they don't care about the scam that happens behind the scenes, as "it doesn't concern aakash and it's not affiliated with it"

I'm genuinely not interested in their classes because of how poor the teaching quality on their live classes is and how they deny to explain my doubts because there's "no time for it" and I should watch the "recorded videos of the class and byjus concepts videos later instead". Now I'm being denied a full refund on top of all of this. They tell me I'd only get 10k back

(Later, I was contacted by a senior executive and he told me he'd manage to get the 3k back, as it was done off record, and S would be removed from the system. We told them we decided not to cancel the course because of that and they also promised the deliver the books soon. They haven't updated us on any of it, and they haven't delivered the books yet and it's genuinely troublesome trying to contact them since they wont attend the call if called from the registered mobile number)

I feel thoroughly scammed by S, and by the aakash byjus live representatives. I'm also feeling very helpless in this situation. Where do I go from here? Is there anything that can be done?

(The bill has the name of the person that wrote the exam instead, the bill that has the terms and conditions written on it)

Is there a way I could do a chargeback via the bank instead, if so, what would be the procedure? (Kotak Mahindra Bank, Credit card)

Also, if anyone wants the video, I'll be willing to DM them (the language is in Tamil)

TLDR : Aakash representative told me if I cancel my course within 60 days, I'd get a full refund, made someone else write the scholarship exam for me and accepted the terms and conditions in my name (with the OTP he got from me, which I had no idea of). Now when I contact Aakash, they're refusing to take responsibility and point at the terms and conditions which have been hidden from me by S. Meant to post this on Dec 10, but due to the stuff that happened meanwhile, I'm deciding to post it now