Date: 26.11.2021: 2. The petitioner no.1 and 2 are husband and wife and they are directors
and promoters of the company registered under the companies act in the
name of M/s. Patwa Automobiles Private Limited (hereinafter referred as
the company). At present the company is undergoing Corporate Insolvency
Resolution Process (CIRP) before the National Company Law Tribunal
(NCLT), Bench at Indore. The company took a financial assistance from
respondent no.2 for starting the business of polymer trading thereafter
shifted into the business of automobiles dealership by becoming the
authorized dealer of Mahindra and Mahindra Vehicles at Indore. With a view
to expand its business company availed the credit facility from the creditors
and financial institutions. In the year 2014 the respondent no.2 extended - : 2 :- 3. According to the petitioners in 6th Company of Creditors (COC)
meeting dated 19.03.2021 the company has been classified as fraud under
the Master directions on Frauds-Classification and Reporting by
commercial banks and select FIs dated 01.07.2016 issued by RBI. After
declaring the fraud, the matter was reported to the investigation agency i.e.
CBI which has resulted into registration of FIR against the petitioners at
crime no.RC0082021A0013 dated 21.10.2021 by police station ACB,
Bhopal under section 120-B and 420 of the IPC and sections 13(2) read with section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,1988. Hence the present
petition before this Court. 4. Initially the petitioners have filed this petition seeking quashment of
Master Circular on fraud dated 01.07.2015 as it violates Article 14 , 19 (1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of India consequently and quashment of
declaration as a fraud and further consequential action. By way of
amendment the petitioners are now seeking quashment of FIR registered at
crime no.RC0082021A0013 dated 21.10.2021 registered at police station
ACB, Bhopal. By way of interim relief, the petitioners are seeking that the - : 3 :- 5. Shri Abhinav Malhotra, learned counsel for the petitioners submit that
the Master directions on Frauds- Classification and Reporting by commercial
banks and select FIs dated 01.07.2016 nowhere provides the opportunity of
hearing before declaring a company as fraud hence it violates Article 14 , 19
(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of India. It is further submitted that the
company has already been declared as willful defaulter and vide interim
order dated 13.02.2019 this court has directed not to take coercive action.
Since then, no fresh material has been collected by the bank for declaring the
company as fraud. Hence the impugned action suffered from malafide and
the petitioners are entitled for the interim relief in the nature that no coercive
action be taken in pursuant to declaration of Fraud i.e. protection from arrest
by the CBI. 6. In support of above contentions, Shri A. Malhotra has placed reliance
on the judgment passed by the High Court of Telangana, Hyderabad
reported in the year 2021 SCC TS 50 in which similar type of action has
been quashed by holding that the principle of audi alteram part of the
principles of natural justice is to be read in clause 8.9.4 and clause 8.9.5 of
the master circular dated 01.07.2016. He has also placed reliance on the
judgment passed by the Apex Court in case of Arnab Manoranjan
Goswami Vs. State of Maharashtra and Others reported in 2021 (2) SCC
427 in which the Apex Court has held that the power of High Court under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. and Article 226 of the Constitution of India are
identical in order to prevail the abuse of process of law. The High Court
under Article 226 of Constitution of India quashed the criminal proceedings
and has also granted bail. He has further placed reliance over the recent
judgment passed by the Apex Court in case of A.P. Mahesh V/s Ramesh
and others reported in the year 2021 online SCC 475. 7. Shri Milind Phadke, learned A.S.G. appearing for the respondent
no.3/CBI submits that the petitioners have already been declared as willful
defaulters thereafter, the bank has rightly found the fraud committed by the
petitioners and reported to the CBI. The circular dated 01.07.2016 is having
a statutory force as it is issued under the power conferred under section 35-A of the Banking Regulation Act,1949 by the RBI. The directions in the - : 4 :- 8. Shri Mehta learned counsel for the respondent no.2/bank submits that
bank has taken action strictly in accordance with provisions of circular dated
01.07.2016 and no malafide can be alleged. 9. In the case of M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Versus State of
Maharashtra and others ( criminal appeal no 330/2021) the Supreme Court
of India has held as under :- and/or Article 226 of the Constitution of India with assigning any reasons.
 We have also come across number of orders passed by the High Courts,
 while dismissing the quashing petitions, of not to arrest the accused during
 the investigation or till the chargesheet/final report under Section
 173 Cr.P.C is filed. As observed hereinabove, it is the statutory right and
 even the duty of the police to investigate into the cognizable offence and
 collect the evidence during the course of investigation. There may be
 requirement of a custodial investigation for which the accused is required to
 be in police custody (popularly known as remand). Therefore, passing such
 type of blanket interim orders without assigning reasons, of not to arrest
 and/or "no coercive steps" would hamper the investigation and may affect
 the statutory right/duty of the police to investigate the cognizable offence
 conferred under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . Therefore, such a blanket
 order is not justified at all. The order of the High Court must disclose
 reasons why it has passed an ad-interim direction during the pendency of
 the proceedings under Section 482 Cr.P.C. Such reasons, however brief
 must disclose an application of mind. The aforesaid is required to be considered from another angle also.
 Granting of such blanket order would not only adversely affect the
 investigation but would have far reaching implications for maintaining the
 Rule of Law. Where the investigation is stayed for a long time, even if the
 stay is ultimately vacated, the subsequent investigation may not be very
 fruitful for the simple reason that the evidence may no longer be available. - : 5 :- It cannot be disputed that the anticipatory bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C.
 can be granted on the conditions prescribed under Section 438 Cr.P.C. are
 satisfied. At the same time, it is to be noted that arrest is not a must
 whenever an FIR of a cognizable offence is lodged. Still in case a person is
 apprehending his arrest in connection with an FIR disclosing cognizable
 offence, as observed hereinabove, he has a remedy to apply for anticipatory
 bail under Section 438 Cr.P.C. As observed by this Court in the case
 of Hema Mishra v. State of Uttar Pradesh , (2014) 4 SCC 453, though the
 High Courts have very wide powers under Article 226 , the powers
 under Article 226 of the Constitution of India are to be exercised to
 prevent miscarriage of justice and to prevent abuse of process of law by the
 authorities indiscriminately making pre-arrest of the accused persons. It is
 further observed that in entertaining such a petition under Article 226 , the
 High Court is supposed to balance the two interests. On the one hand, the
 Court is to ensure that such a power under Article 226 is not to be exercised
 liberally so as to convert it into Section 438 Cr.P.C. proceedings. It is
 further observed that on the other hand whenever the High Court finds that
 in a given case if the protection against pre-arrest is not given, it would
 amount to gross miscarriage of justice and no case, at all, is made for arrest
 pending trial, the High Court would be free to grant the relief in the nature
 of anticipatory bail in exercise of its powers under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India, keeping in mind that this power has to be exercised
 sparingly in those cases where it is absolutely warranted and justified.
 However, such a blanket interim order of not to arrest or "no coercive steps"