Our coverage in 2023 saw developments en masse and across the board. From privacy to telecom, platform regulations, AI, and other sectors, there were a number of topics explored extensively by Medianama journalists to extract stories that matter.

As always, keeping the reader in mind, the following is the first of a two-part series where we bring to you a compilation of some of our significant longer reads.

Here we go.

Fraudsters Impersonate Founders of WebEngage, CleverTap and MediaNama on WhatsApp, Emails ‘Hey, are you busy? I am in a meeting with a vendor and I have exceeded my daily limit. Will need you to transfer Rs. 5000. Will initiate the reimbursement process asap. Thanks.” What would you do if you got such a message from your employer? Correction: from someone who is ‘impersonating’ your employer. Well, one of our writers, Sarasvati, did. While she didn’t fall into the trap, she decided to write a story about it! In this piece, Sarasvati traces the rising trend of impersonation scams, the crafty techniques scammers have been employing, and the factors that are keeping people from taking legal recourse in the present scenario. [ Read ]

Looking Beyond the Govt’s Rosy Picture of Healthcare Digitisation: Telangana’s Aarogyasri Scheme

Picture this: You go to a hospital, punch your digital healthcare ID card and voila! The hospital has access to your medical history—no ruffling through files, no lost reports, nothing. The Telangana state government is looking at making this a reality pretty soon. Sounds good, you say? I would have agreed. Fortunately, Vallari closely read the tender put out by the government for this project and found a few aspects that call for further scrutiny, namely: data privacy and workplace surveillance. How long do we have to wait for using AI-friendly government schemes without any caveats? [ Read ]

Five Key Points by Copyright Lawyers on Google’s AI-based Music Generator What if you could whip up a combination of piano and guitar, just as you like it, by writing a text prompt? Google’s MusicLM, an AI model for generating high-quality music from text descriptions, is doing just that. So far, so good? But wait. Where there is AI, there are issues (at least at this point in time). Pertinent, ethical questions like—Who is the author and owner of an AI-generated work? What about the biases embedded in the training data picked up by the AI?—are being raised. Sarasvati spoke to musicians and copyright lawyers to understand the issues at hand and what they mean for artists. [ Read ]

Interview: US Scientist Stephen Thaler Talks About AI Sentience, Copyright Infringement And Regulation

While legal frameworks to ensure rights and freedom of human beings exist throughout the world, and are guaranteed almost everywhere, some take the idea a step further. Meet Dr. Stephen Thaler, founder of Imagination Engines Inc, who proposes that the same rights should apply to AI systems, especially those which he considers ‘sentient’. In an interview with Medianama, Dr. Thaler stated that this quality comes from the AI being similar to a synthetic brain, consisting of parts equivalent to parts of the human brain. He also reflected upon issues like AI-induced copyright infringement, responsible use of models, and most importantly, ways to regulate artificial intelligence. [Read]

How Has Social Media Addiction Grown Among Children And Why Is It So Hard To Address This Issue?

Imagine a world where a child’s best friend is a screen. In this story, Vallari delves into the evolving challenges parents and educators face. Highlighting the subtle yet pervasive influence of online platforms, it questions the effectiveness of current regulations and the urgent need for more robust, child-centric digital policies. With insights from teachers and mental health professionals alike, we attempt to reach the root of the problem, moving across decisive factors like parental guidance, platform-level interventions, and the effect of unforeseen peripheral circumstances, in the process. [Read]

What’s the Current Status of ONDC and What are Some Roadblocks It Is Facing? Have you heard of ONDC before? Back in September-October 2022, the Open Network for Digital Commerce was all anyone could talk about, with the news outlets labelling it as the ‘e-commerce disruptor’ to look out for. While the rage has died down, the project is very much alive and running. In this piece, Sarvesh touched base with the project (and the people involved in it) to find out the current status of activities, major roadblocks, and the next steps that lay in store. Spoiler: the numbers aren’t very encouraging but the people involved are hopeful. [ Read ]

Fraud Alert: Social Media Outreach for Customer Support Can Get you Scammed “…he was unsure what was worse – that he lost his money to a scammer or that he still doesn’t know how to contact Paytm customer care,” Vallari writes about Danish, a digital marketing executive who was scammed by a fake Twitter account posing as the Paytm customer care handle. In this piece, Vallari talked to aggrieved customers, experts, and companies to shed some light on the current status of customer care services in India and the potential impact of mandating user verification on social media platforms. Also, the next time a company’s handle responds to your tweet, check it out before acting! [ Read ] The Impact of India’s Proposed Online Gaming Rules January was a hectic month for us. The IT Ministry came out with the proposed online gaming regulations and there was just so much to cover . Once the dust settled, Aarathi sat down with the bigger questions: How do the new rules overcome the roadblocks laid by the past laws regulating the sector? In part one of the two part series, she explored the potential impacts of the regulations, as per the experts and people in the industry. In part two, she examined the self-regulatory framework that the regulations propose and how it addresses consumer harm. [ Part 1 , Part 2 ] Concerns on India’s Proposed ‘Fact-checking’ Policy A few days after coming out with the proposed gaming rules, the IT Ministry proposed another amendment to the IT Rules that effectively outlaws social media platforms from hosting information the Indian government’s agencies have fact-checked to be ‘false’. Saying that this raised many eyebrows, will be a thorough understatement. We obviously had questions: Can we trust the government to not censor inconvenient news by calling it ‘fake’? Will the government exercise these powers in a limited way? Has it ever exercised its censorship powers judiciously? Aarathi spoke to experts to find out how the amendment challenges “our ability to freely express ourselves, exchange information, have a healthy debate about disagreements and preserve democracy.” [ Read ] What Does G20 Have To Do with Tech Policy? India is the president of the G20 this year. This presidency will entail 200-plus meetings across 50 cities on different G20 policy issues, as well as the final summit in New Delhi in September. But what is G20 in the first place and how is tech policy related to it? “There aren’t that many economic issues left that don’t involve technology,” Aarathi writes, in the first part of a series of two, as she delved into the world of Group of Twenty—what it does, the issues it raises and why India’s role in it might be worth keeping an eye on. In part two, she looked at the three larger policy planks that are likely to take centre stage at the G20 and how they align with domestic interests back home. [ Part 1 , Part 2 ]

How State Family Database Projects Pose Dangers of In-depth Citizen Profiling and Exclusion “They are saying that if the state has to give anything to a people, the people have to be willing to give it a lot,” Usha Ramanathan commented on the State Family Database (SFDB) projects which has been taken up by several states like Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Maharashtra, etc. The project’s objective: to merge all the information of an individual across all government departments. The project’s aim: to be the “single source of truth” of all state residents. In this piece, Sarasvati decoded the harms of the project on people’s fundamental rights in the world’s largest democracy. [ Read ]

Will You Be Protected Under Law If an FTX-like Situation Were to Happen in India? As the dust settled following the collapse of FTX, one of the biggest exchanges in the world, we found ourselves wondering: is there a way to prevent an FTX-like situation in India? What are the guardrails in place to protect the Indian crypto investors? What is the status of such regulations in India? Mitaksh sat down for a chat with Mridul Gupta, COO at CoinDCX, asking these questions, and more, in this interview. [ Read ]

Is It Legally Permissible To Create An OnlyFans-like Platform In India?

Back in June this year, Chingari, a short video platform, made a ‘name’ for itself when it switched to NSFW content. The incident garnered considerable media attention. When approached by Medianama, the platform maintained that its content was going to remain safe for work despite having changed its user rating on app stores to ‘18+’. This got us thinking. Would it at all be possible for an OnlyFans-like platform to sustain itself in the Indian backdrop? Check out in this story what Kamya discovered when she ventured to find answers to several such questions : Whether such platforms were legal, till what point could one push before obscenity laws caught up, the content takedown procedure, and much more. [Read]

Summary: India’s Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Bill, 2023 Five years in the offing, the Parliament’s monsoon session this year finally witnessed the enactment of the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2023. Currently operating in India’s data protection space, the bill included legislation that originated through the Supreme Court’s landmark Puttaswamy judgement (2017), which ensured privacy as a fundamental right for citizens. While the Modi administration expectedly hailed this as a privacy win, there has been a parallel undercurrent of worry regarding the scope of the law, how it works, who now can access citizens’ data, and to what extent. In his story, Sarvesh tries to understand the same, and sketches an outline of the law. [Read]

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event