I have receive an email which is a fraud email............... Ref: “MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA COMPANY Ltd” Direct Recruitments offer. It is our good pleasure to inform you that your Resume has been selected for our plant. The Company selected 24 candidates list for IT, Administration and Production Departments, as well as Company offered you to join as an Executive/Manager post in respective department. You are selected according to your resume in which Project you have worked on according to that you have been selected in Company. The Company is dealing in manufacturing business in India . Your interview will held at Company Corporate office on –22th Aug 2010 at 11.30 in MUMBAI. You will be pleased to know that Company has advise you in the selection panel that your Application can be progress to final stage. You will come to Company corporate office in MUMBAI. Your offer latter with Air Ticket will be send to you by courier before date of interview. The Company can be offer you as salary with benefits for this post 30,000/- to 3,50,000/- P.M. + (HRA + D.A + Conveyance and other Company benefits. The designation and Job Location will be fix by Company HRD. At time of final process. You have to come with photo-copies of all required documents. REQUIRED DOCUMENTS BY THE COMPANY HRD. (1) Photo-copies of Qualification Documents. (2) Photo-copies of Experience Certificates (If any) (3) Photo-copies of Address Proof (4) Two Passport Size Photograph You have to deposit the (Cash) as an initial amount in favor of Company HRD. Department. for Rs. 9,480/- through any  (Chase Manhattan Bank) Branch from your Home City to Company Senior HRD. Account NO [protected] - Name of Mahindra Group of India ltd. This is refundable interview security. Your offer letter with Air tickets will be send to your Home Address by courier after receiving the confirmation of interview security deposited in (Chase Manhattan Bank). Company will pay all the expenses to you at the time of face-to-face meeting with you in Company. The Job profile, salary offer, and date -time of interview will be mention in your offer letter. Your offer letter will dispatch very shortly after receiving your confirmation of cash deposited in (Chase Manhattan Bank). We wish you the best of luck for the subsequent and remaining stage. You have to give the information after deposited the security money in bank of Company HRD – direct recruitment email id confirmation.mail.[protected]@gmail.com,Your Letter with supporting documents will be dispatch same time by courier to your postal address. Your security deposited confirmation in bank. The interview process and arrangement expenses will be pay by Company. Traveling and local conveyance actual will be paid by Company as per bills. The candidate has to deposit the initial refundable security as mentioned by HRD. If the candidate wants to come with his parent or friend, the Company will arrange all facilities only for female candidate. For the last date for the confirmation in bank is tomorrow Thanks Mr.RAJESH SHARMA Mahindra & Mahindra [protected]@mahindra.co.in Our website address is:- www.mahindra.com We are located at Automotive Exchange Pvt Ltd, 12th floor, Vishwaroop IT Park, Sector 16A, Vashi, Navi Mumbai - 400705 Contact No. – [protected] NOTE: -After confirmation in bank you have to send the scan copy of deposited slip to this email id: -confirmation.mail.[protected]@gmail.com