(BY SRI B.N.JAGADEESHA, ADDL.SPP FOR R-1;
 SRI ANGAD KAMATH, ADVOCATE FOR R-2)

 THIS CRIMINAL PETITION IS FILED UNDER SECTION 528 OF
BNSS, 2023 PRAYING TO QUASH THE IMPUGNED FIR DATED
29.03.2025 BEARING CRIME NO.176/2025 VIDE ANNEXURE B
REGISTERED BY THE 1ST RESPONDENT (WHITEFIELD CEN CRIME
POLICE STATION) FOR THE ALLEGED OFFENCE P/U/S 65 AND 66
OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACT, 2000 AND SEC.316 AND
318(4) OF BNS 2023, AGAINST THE PETITIONER, WHO HAS BEEN
ARRAYED AS THE SOLE ACCUSED THEREIN, CURRENTLY PENDING
ON THE FILE OF THE HON'BLE 47TH ADDL. CJM BENGALURU
(TRANSFERED FROM THE HON'BLE 45TH ACJM BENGALURU). THIS CRIMINAL PETITION HAVING BEEN HEARD AND
RESERVED FOR ORDERS ON 10.03.2026, COMING ON FOR
PRONOUNCEMENT THIS DAY, THE COURT MADE THE FOLLOWING:- There were no formal working hours for these Directors is what is

averred in the petition. In and around the month of June, 2024 5 disputes arose between the founder directors of the Company

owning to various conflicts and disagreements among them. The

other two Directors, one of whom is the complainant, are said to

have tried to remove the petitioner from the control and

management of the Company. Therefore, the petitioner projects

himself to be a whistle blower giving out misdoings of the Company

to the respective Authorities where he began to complain to the

Registrar of Companies, SEBI and other regulatory organizations. When things stood thus, a complaint come to be registered by the

2nd respondent, one of the founder Directors, alleging several acts

of the petitioner to have become ingredients of cheating and

criminal breach of trust. Investigation ensued pursuant to the

registration of complaint on 29-03-2025 in Crime No.176 of 2025. The moment the crime is registered and investigation ensued, the

petitioner knocks at the doors of this Court in the subject petition. 4. A coordinate Bench of this Court grants an interim order of

stay. The interim order granted by the coordinate Bench on

10-09-2025 reads as follows: The said interim order is in subsistence even today and the

2ndrespondent/complainant has preferred an application seeking

vacation of the interim order. Therefore, the matter is heard on the

application seeking vacation of the interim order finally, with the

consent of parties. SUBMISSIONS: 5. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner Sri Suraj

Sampath would vehemently contend that the petitioner is one of

the founder Directors of the Company. He is now alleged of stealing

data or bringing disrepute to the Company through the said acts of

stealing data. He would submit that a father cannot be alleged of

kidnapping his own children. When he is an equal shareholder and

founder Director of the Company, it cannot be said that he has

stolen the data. The data belongs to him, like it belongs to other

two partners. Therefore, the very allegation against the petitioner is

unfounded. If on such an allegation investigation is permitted to

continue, it would become an abuse of the process of law. Plethora

of documents are filed by way of memo of documents and

objections to the application seeking vacation of interim order. All

of them should be taken note of and the crime should be

obliterated, is the submission of the learned counsel for the

petitioner. He would also contend that registration of crime for

offences punishable under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC as 8 obtaining under Sections 316 and 318(4) of the BNS cannot go

hand in hand in the light of the judgment of the Apex Court in the

case of DELHI RACE CLUB(1940) LIMITED v. STATE OF UTTAR

PRADESH1 . RESPONDENT NO.2/COMPLAINANT: 6. Per contra, the learned counsel Sri Angad Kamath

appearing for the 2nd respondent/complainant would vehemently

refute the submissions to contend that interference by this Court

under Section 482 of the CrPC/528 of the BNSS at the crime stage

is extremely limited, unless the petitioner is able to demonstrate

prima facie, that what is alleged would not meet the ingredients of

the crime at all. The learned counsel submits that the petitioner is

speaking of ownership of the data. No shareholder can claim

himself to be the owner of the data. Owner of the data is the

Company. If tomorrow the other two Directors would indulge in

stealing data, they would be equally responsible or make

themselves open to penal consequences, as data is not the property 1 (2024) 10 SCC 690 9 of the shareholder of any Company, but it is the Company's

property. The learned counsel would contend that the act of the

petitioner amounts to insider theft and grave breach of fiduciary

duty. It is not a civil project, as is projected by the petitioner. The

petitioner claims to be a whistle blower only to protect his skin of

further investigation into the matter. These are cyber crimes and

the Court would not lend its hand to quash the proceedings at this

nascent stage. PETITIONER - REJOINDER: 7. The learned counsel for the petitioner would join issue to

contend that the allegation of loss, economic stoppage or business

damage are all bald allegations. The Company has not suffered any

loss. He would again reiterate that a dispute which is either

financial or purely civil in nature is dressed with a colour of crime

and is said to be investigated into. He also reiterates that Sections

316 and 318(4) of the BNS cannot exist together in the light of the

judgment in DELHI RACE CLUB 's case. STATE: ISSUE NO.1: 10. The factual narrative as unfolded, traces the genesis of

the Company, the respective roles of the petitioner and the other

Directors, one of whom is the complainant and the sequence of

events culminating in the registration of the complaint. These

foundational facts are not in serious dispute and form part of the

record. The controversy, however, springs from the allegations

contained in the complaint, which in the considered view of this

Court, merits a closer scrutiny. It is therefore, apposite, to extract

and examine the complaint in some detail. The complaint reads as

follows: Mr. Harlalka became a shareholder and director of the
 Company on 26.03.2018. Separately Mr. Harlalka was
 also appointed to the position of Director by way of an
 Employment Agreement dated 01.10.2018. His
 employment was terminated on 24.03.2025. a copy of
 the Employment Agreement and termination email are
 enclosed for your ready reference at Document 2. 2. In the course of his employment with the Company, Mr.
 Harlalka worked under the Employee Code: 3. The Company is engaged in the business of quant trading
 in which the company makes proprietary algorithms to
 trade in Indian stock markets. The trading activities of the
 Company are split across three verticals i.e. High-
 Frequency Trading ("HFT"), Medium-Frequency Trading
 ("MFT"), and Infra. HFT vertical constitutes developing
 algorithms to predict stock price movements in a short
 duration of time. MFT vertical constitutes developing
 algorithms to trade in derivatives by holding positions for
 longer duration which includes overnight positions as well.
 Infra vertical constitutes development, maintenance and
 research on trading connectivity to the exchange. Mr.
 Harlalka was responsible for the operations of MFT. He
 operated from the corporate office of the Company. 4. The trading activities within the Company (across all
 verticals) are governed by specific parameters embedded
 in the company's codes, with any modifications to these
 parameters being automatically logged in the system
 (bash_history, tradelogs, etc). These logs record the
 nature of the changes made and the identity of the
 individual effecting such changes. We write sophisticated algorithms which are based on the
 concepts of financial engineering and mathematics,
 machine learning and market analysis. These algorithms
 have a variety of parameters which can be tuned to 14 optimize the performance and profitability of the
 strategies. Such algorithms are back-tested over
 historical data (days, weeks, months and years) based on
 the nature of strategies. These algorithms, then if
 profitable, are used to trade in Indian Stock Markets on
 servers located in the Exchange premises. An algorithm
 that was quite profitable would make a huge loss if the
 parameters that it was tuned to in our
 simulations/backtesting to the optimized level is changed
 to a subdued value causing it to behave in an undesired
 manner - impacting profits and reducing the volumes
 considerably thereby. We log every trade that we do in
 every segment of the stock market to keep a track on the
 performance (profitability and volumes). 5. The codes are software programs, the right, title and
 ownership of which is vested in the Company. The codes
 and their log records are maintained by the Company on
 Atlassian Bitbucket (Application hosting CodeBase
 Repositories), Company's servers, which are guarded and
 monitored by the Firewalls through the Company's
 secured VPN connections. 6. Mr. Harlalka had access to the codes of the Company on
 Atlassian Bitbucket application with loginid: "aashay" and
 email id: " [email protected] " Mr.
 Harlalka was responsible for the codes of the Company
 for MFT trading. The codes pertaining to HFT and Infra
 are distinct and unrelated to the codes of MFT. As per the
 Company's protocol, Mr. Harlalka was not entitled to
 access the codes pertaining to the HFT and Infra verticals,
 without the approval of Mr. Saurabh Bhola and Mr.
 Shivakumar Reddy Chinthala, who were for the
 supervisors for the HFT and Infra verticals respectively. 7. On 05.08.2024, it was discovered that Mr. Harlalka
 had been intentionally and unauthorizedly altering
 the parameters of trading models, causing
 significant financial loss to the Company.. To
 conceal his actions, Mr. Harlalka also intentionally
 and deliberately deleted all the system logs from
 multiple servers for the period prior to 26.07.2024
 (several months of data) on 02.08.2024. The 15 trading parameters and system logs are proprietary
 and confidential to the Company. These
 unauthorized and fraudulent activities continued
 until they were uncovered on 05.08.2024. Upon
 being confronted, he apologized and assured that
 he would rectify his actions. Consequently, in late
 August 2024, he reversed some of the unauthorized
 changes; however, by then, the Company had
 already suffered substantial damage. Evidence of these activities by Mr. Harlalka is borne
 out from the documents and information at
 Document 3. 8. Despite Mr. Harlalka being permitted to access the
 codes of the MFT vertical as part of his
 responsibilities, and only from the Company's
 permitted computer servers, he has been logging
 into the same and copying the codes for the Infra
 and HFT trading systems, which are managed by
 the undersigned and the other director of the
 Company, Mr. Shivakumar Reddy Chinthala during
 01.08.2024 to 04.03.2025. Trading strategies in
 HFT built over the Infra have contributed to a
 significant part of the revenues in the course of the
 present financial year itself. We discovered on 28.02.2025 that in the past
 month he had been logging into the Company's
 private network on several days post-midnight,
 which are not the traditional trading hours of the
 Company and those are typically the times when
 the Company's other employees and traders are not
 logged into the Company's private network. As
 there is no trading activity during such hours, there
 was no legitimate reason for him to access the
 network at those times. His work pattern was
 suspicious, as he consistently avoided working
 during actual trading hours (between 9 am to 3:30
 pm) during which employees are in office. We sent
 multiple emails (enclosed herewith as Document 4)
 instructing him to adhere to working hours, but he
 willfully ignored them. This behavior coincided with unauthorized copying
 and downloading of the Company codebase not
 under his purview. The records suggest that Mr.
 Harlalke not only accessed and copied these codes,
 but the same were saved onto computer systems,
 an action which was not approved by the Company.
 The codes of Infra, HFT and MFT trading strategies
 maintained by the Company on its code repository,
 as well as its internal network, are the property of
 the Company. Mr. Harlalka accessed the Company's
 codebase repositories, copied and downloaded the
 same to his laptop, without the permission of the
 Company and with a dishonest intention, as is
 borne out from the stealth and timing of access.
 Retention of the codes on a device, other than the
 one approved by the Company which is outside of
 the Company's highly secured VPN network, shows
 that Mr. Harlalka has sought to steal and
 misappropriate the codes of the Company. This
 intention is further evidenced by a fact that we
 discovered on 26.03.2025, Mr. Harlalka had also
 downloaded the codes on 04.03.2024, a day before
 proposing the dissolution of the Company, in
 response to an email sent by the undersigned,
 which sought to address his actions and inactions
 regarding his work and conduct to which he had
 remained unresponsive. We discovered this on
 26.03.2025. VPN Logs indicating his log in timings are enclosed
 at Document 5. Evidence of copying of the codes for
 the Infra and HFT trading strategies, and
 downloading of the same into devices outside of the
 Company's servers are enclosed at Document 6.
 Evidence of downloading the codes on 04.03.2024
 are enclosed at Document 7. 9. On 21.03.2024, the Company discovered that Mr.
 Harlalka had deliberately deleted critical and confidential
 codes, an important IP of the Company, for the MFT
 trading strategies (SGSVStrat), both from Bitbucket (i.e.
 the platform hosting the Company's code repository), as 17 well as from the servers in the Company's internal
 network. This proprietary code, which had existed since
 13.03.2022, was exclusively handled by Mr. Aashay for
 revenue generation. Evidence proving Mr. Harlalka's
 deletion of the codes are enclosed at Document 8. Subsequently, on 21.03.2024, the same day we
 discovered that Mr. Harlalka had deleted our code, we
 contacted Bitbucket via email, requesting a copy of the
 deletion history. A copy of our email dated 21.03.2024 to
 Bitbucket is attached as Document 9. In further
 investigation with the Bitbucket support on 27.03.2024, it
 came to the notice that he has deleted the audit logs of
 the Bitbucket application as well for multiple dates
 starting from 27.07.2024 to 19.03.2024 to hide his
 unauthorised activity on the Bitbucket application to
 access the unauthorised repositories. It coincides with the
 same date on which he has done log deletions on the
 trade server of the dates before that. It also has been
 observed that he deleted multiple repositories on
 15.07.2024. As an employee and Director of the Company, Mr.
 Harlalka had been entrusted with the password to access
 the code repository and internal network of the Company.
 In such capacity, Mr. Harlalka acted as an agent of the
 Company. However, Mr. Harlalka has misused the trust
 reposed in him by the Company, by copying the codes for
 his personal use, while deleting the same from the server
 of the Company, causing the Company to lose business
 and revenue that led to the termination of his
 employment on 24.03.2025. The details of Mr. Harlalka as available with the Company are as
under. Copies of his PAN, Aadhar and Employee ID are enclosed
as Document 10. Mr. Aashay Harlalka,
 4114, Sobha Habitech Apartments,
 Channasandra Main Road,
 Near Hope Farm Junction,
 Whitefield, Bangalore,
 Karnataka-560 066. Email: [email protected] Phone No.:8861874720, 9784011683

 Also at: 4-G-50, New Housing Board,
 Shastri Nagar, Bhilwara,
 Rajasthan-311001
 Email ID: [email protected] Phone No: 8861874250, 9784011683

 In the above circumstances, the Company is constrained to
 bring the aforesaid facts to the notice of the jurisdictional police. It is humbly prayed that this complaint be taken on record and a
 FIR be lodged against Mr. Aashay Harlalka, and the matter be
 thoroughly investigated and he be restrained from intimidating
 or influencing the Company's employees and also be directed to
 return the codes and logs illegally copied and taken by him from
 the Company's servers and repositories. The Company
 undertakes to extend any cooperation that the investigating
 team of the police may deem fit. Sincerely

 Sd/- Saurabh Bhola
 (DIRECTOR)" The Apex Court holds that a shareholder acquires a right to

participate in the profits of the Company, but does not acquire any 25 interest in the assets of the Company. The clarity of the elucidation

brooks no ambiguity. In the contemporary digital age, the

assets of a Company are not confined to physical or movable

property. They extend, in significant measure to data, code

and intellectual propriety. Such digital assets, no less than

physical ones, are owned exclusively by the Company. The

petitioner therefore cannot seek refuge in his status as a

shareholder to negate the allegations of misappropriation. This is sans countenance and is therefore repelled. ISSUE NO.2: 14. The second limb of submission pertains to applicability of

offences to Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC / 316 and 318(4) of

the BNS. It is urged that these provisions cannot co-exist. Reliance is placed on the decision of the Apex Court in DELHI RACE

CLUB. There can be no qualm with the principle enunciated therein. However, the factual context in that decision is materially

distinguishable. It arose from a private complaint before the

Magistrate, not from an FIR under investigation by the police. In

the case at hand, the complaint has set the criminal law in motion

through registration of FIR and matter is at the stage of

investigation. The offences invoked are based on allegations

disclosed in the complaint. Whether both offences will ultimately

sustain or whether one may give way to the other, upon

culmination of investigation, is a matter to be determined at a later

stage. At this juncture, it would be premature and indeed

inappropriate, for this Court to interdict investigation on the ground

of alleged overlap in offences. 15. As observed hereinabove, the complaint is registered

before the jurisdictional Police. The jurisdictional Police has chosen

the offences based upon the facts in the complaint. The matter is

still at the stage of investigation. It would be a circumstance where

the Police while filing the final report and if they file a charge sheet,

both the offences under Sections 316/406 and 318(4)/420 may not

be present. Therefore, it is too early for this Court to step in and 27 quash the proceedings, on the score that the police have registered

the crime for both Sections 316/406 and 318(4)/420. For the folly

of the Police in registering both the crimes i.e., for offences

punishable under Sections 316/406 and 318(4)/420, if this Court

would quash the proceedings, the victim will be left remediless. Therefore, in such cases, the investigation in the least, is a must. 16. The final submission of the petitioner is that this Court

should undertake an exhaustive examination of voluminous

documents running close to hundreds of pages which only

underscores the complexity of the factual disputes involved. Such an exercise falls squarely within the domain of the

investigating agency. To embark upon an enquiry, at this

stage, would amount to converting these proceedings into a

trial, which is impermissible. Where the case is enmeshed

with serious disputed question of fact, the Court in exercise

of its jurisdiction ought not to assume the role of

Investigating Authority, except in exceptional cases, as held

by the Apex Court in plethora of cases. The invitation to sift 28 through extensive material and to render findings thereon is

therefore found unacceptable. 17. It is apposite to refer to the judgment of the Apex Court

in the case of KAPTAN SINGH v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH2 ,

wherein it has been held as follows: ".... .... .... 9.1. At the outset, it is required to be noted that in
 the present case the High Court in exercise of powers
 under Section 482 CrPC has quashed the criminal
 proceedings for the offences under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 406 , 329 and 386 IPC. It is required to be noted that
 when the High Court in exercise of powers under Section
 482 CrPC quashed the criminal proceedings, by the time
 the investigating officer after recording the statement of
 the witnesses, statement of the complainant and
 collecting the evidence from the incident place and after
 taking statement of the independent witnesses and even
 statement of the accused persons, has filed the charge-
 sheet before the learned Magistrate for the offences
 under Sections 147 , 148 , 149 , 406 , 329 and 386 IPC and
 even the learned Magistrate also took the cognizance.
 From the impugned judgment and order [ Radhey Shyam
 Gupta v. State of U.P. , 2020 SCC OnLine All 914] passed by the
 High Court, it does not appear that the High Court took into
 consideration the material collected during the
 investigation/inquiry and even the statements recorded. If the
 petition under Section 482 CrPC was at the stage of FIR in that case the allegations in the FIR/complaint only are
 required to be considered and whether a cognizable
 offence is disclosed or not is required to be considered.
 However, thereafter when the statements are recorded, 2 (2021) 9 SCC 35 29 evidence is collected and the charge-sheet is filed after
conclusion of the investigation/inquiry the matter stands
on different footing and the Court is required to consider
the material/evidence collected during the investigation.
Even at this stage also, as observed and held by this Court in a
catena of decisions, the High Court is not required to go into the
merits of the allegations and/or enter into the merits of the case
as if the High Court is exercising the appellate jurisdiction
and/or conducting the trial. As held by this Court in Dineshbhai
Chandubhai Patel [Dineshbhai Chandubhai Patel v. State of
Gujarat , (2018) 3 SCC 104 : (2018) 1 SCC (Cri) 683] in order to
examine as to whether factual contents of FIR disclose any
cognizable offence or not, the High Court cannot act like the
investigating agency nor can exercise the powers like an
appellate court. It is further observed and held that that
question is required to be examined keeping in view, the
contents of FIR and prima facie material, if any, requiring no
proof. At such stage, the High Court cannot appreciate
evidence nor can it draw its own inferences from contents
of FIR and material relied on. It is further observed it is
more so, when the material relied on is disputed. It is
further observed that in such a situation, it becomes the
job of the investigating authority at such stage to probe
and then of the court to examine questions once the
charge-sheet is filed along with such material as to how
far and to what extent reliance can be placed on such
material. 9.2. In Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar [Dhruvaram Murlidhar
Sonar v. State of Maharashtra , (2019) 18 SCC 191 : (2020) 3
SCC (Cri) 672] after considering the decisions of this Court
in Bhajan Lal [State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal , 1992 Supp (1)
SCC 335 : 1992 SCC (Cri) 426] , it is held by this Court that
exercise of powers under Section 482 CrPC to quash the
proceedings is an exception and not a rule. It is further
observed that inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC though wide is to be exercised sparingly, carefully
and with caution, only when such exercise is justified by
tests specifically laid down in the section itself. It is
further observed that appreciation of evidence is not
permissible at the stage of quashing of proceedings in
exercise of powers under Section 482 CrPC. Similar view 30 has been expressed by this Court in Arvind
Khanna [CBI v. Arvind Khanna , (2019) 10 SCC 686 : (2020) 1
SCC (Cri) 94] , Managipet [State of Telangana v. Managipet,
(2019) 19 SCC 87 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 702] and
in XYZ [XYZ v. State of Gujarat , (2019) 10 SCC 337 : (2020) 1
SCC (Cri) 173] , referred to hereinabove. 9.3. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the
aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand, we are of
the opinion that the High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction in
quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise of powers under Section 482 CrPC. 10. The High Court has failed to appreciate and consider
the fact that there are very serious triable issues/allegations
which are required to be gone into and considered at the time of
trial. The High Court has lost sight of crucial aspects which have
emerged during the course of the investigation. The High Court
has failed to appreciate and consider the fact that the document
i.e. a joint notarised affidavit of Mamta Gupta Accused 2 and
Munni Devi under which according to Accused 2 Ms Mamta
Gupta, Rs 25 lakhs was paid and the possession was transferred
to her itself is seriously disputed. It is required to be noted that
in the registered agreement to sell dated 27-10-2010, the sale
consideration is stated to be Rs 25 lakhs and with no reference
to payment of Rs 25 lakhs to Ms Munni Devi and no reference to
handing over the possession. However, in the joint notarised
affidavit of the same date i.e. 27-10-2010 sale consideration is
stated to be Rs 35 lakhs out of which Rs 25 lakhs is alleged to
have been paid and there is a reference to transfer of
possession to Accused 2. Whether Rs 25 lakhs has been paid or
not the accused have to establish during the trial, because the
accused are relying upon the said document and payment of Rs
25 lakhs as mentioned in the joint notarised affidavit dated 27-
10-2010. It is also required to be considered that the first
agreement to sell in which Rs 25 lakhs is stated to be sale
consideration and there is reference to the payment of Rs 10
lakhs by cheques. It is a registered document. The aforesaid are
all triable issues/allegations which are required to be considered
at the time of trial. The High Court has failed to notice and/or
consider the material collected during the investigation. 11. Now so far as the finding recorded by the High Court
that no case is made out for the offence under Section 406 IPC
is concerned, it is to be noted that the High Court itself has
noted that the joint notarised affidavit dated 27-10-2010 is
seriously disputed, however as per the High Court the same is
required to be considered in the civil proceedings. There the
High Court has committed an error. Even the High Court has
failed to notice that another FIR has been lodged against the
accused for the offences under Sections 467 , 468 , 471 IPC with
respect to the said alleged joint notarised affidavit. Even
according to the accused the possession was handed over to
them. However, when the payment of Rs 25 lakhs as mentioned
in the joint notarised affidavit is seriously disputed and even one
of the cheques out of 5 cheques each of Rs 2 lakhs was
dishonoured and according to the accused they were handed
over the possession (which is seriously disputed) it can be said
to be entrustment of property. Therefore, at this stage to opine
that no case is made out for the offence under Section 406 IPC
is premature and the aforesaid aspect is to be considered during
trial. It is also required to be noted that the first suit was filed
by Munni Devi and thereafter subsequent suit came to be filed
by the accused and that too for permanent injunction only.
Nothing is on record that any suit for specific performance has
been filed. Be that as it may, all the aforesaid aspects are
required to be considered at the time of trial only. 12. Therefore, the High Court has grossly erred in
quashing the criminal proceedings by entering into the
merits of the allegations as if the High Court was
exercising the appellate jurisdiction and/or conducting
the trial. The High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction in
quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise of powers
under Section 482 CrPC. 13. Even the High Court has erred in observing that
original complaint has no locus. The aforesaid observation is
made on the premise that the complainant has not placed on
record the power of attorney along with the counter filed before
the High Court. However, when it is specifically stated in the FIR
that Munni Devi has executed the power of attorney and
thereafter the investigating officer has conducted the
investigation and has recorded the statement of the 32 complainant, accused and the independent witnesses, thereafter
 whether the complainant is having the power of attorney or not
 is to be considered during trial. 14. In view of the above and for the reasons stated
 above, the impugned judgment and order [ Radhey Shyam
 Gupta v. State of U.P. , 2020 SCC OnLine All 914] passed by the
 High Court quashing the criminal proceedings in exercise of
 powers under Section 482 CrPC is unsustainable and the same
 deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly
 quashed and set aside. Now, the trial is to be conducted and
 proceeded further in accordance with law and on its own merits.
 It is made clear that the observations made by this Court in the
 present proceedings are to be treated to be confined to the
 proceedings under Section 482 CrPC only and the trial court to
 decide the case in accordance with law and on its own merits
 and on the basis of the evidence to be laid and without being
 influenced by any of the observations made by us hereinabove.
 The present appeal is accordingly allowed." 18. The Apex Court in the case of STATE OF MADHYA

PRADESH v. KUNWAR SINGH3 , has held as follows: ".... .... .... 8. Having heard the submissions of the learned counsel
 appearing on behalf of the appellant and the respondent, we
 are of the view that the High Court has transgressed the
 limits of its jurisdiction under Section 482 of CrPC by
 enquiring into the merits of the allegations at the present
 stage. The fact that the respondent was a signatory to the
 cheques is not in dispute. This, in fact, has been adverted to
 in the judgment of the High Court. The High Court has also
 noted that a person who is required to approve a financial
 proposal is duty bound to observe due care and responsibility.
 There are specific allegations in regard to the irregularities
 which have been committed in the course of the work of the 3 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3668 33 'Janani Mobility Express' under the National Rural Health
 Mission. At this stage, the High Court ought not to be
 scrutinizing the material in the manner in which the
 trial court would do in the course of the criminal trial
 after evidence is adduced. In doing so, the High Court
 has exceeded the well-settled limits on the exercise of
 the jurisdiction under Section 482 of CrPC. A detailed
 enquiry into the merits of the allegations was not
 warranted. The FIR is not expected to be an
 encyclopedia, particularly, in a matter involving
 financial irregularities in the course of the
 administration of a public scheme. A final report has
 been submitted under Section 173 of CrPC, after
 investigation. 19. The Apex Court in the case of SOMJEET MALLICK v. STATE OF JHARKHAND4, has held as follows: ".... .... .... 15. Before we proceed to test the correctness of the
 impugned order, we must bear in mind that at the stage of
 deciding whether a criminal proceeding or FIR, as the
 case may be, is to be quashed at the threshold or not,
 the allegations in the FIR or the police report or the
 complaint, including the materials collected during
 investigation or inquiry, as the case may be, are to be
 taken at their face value so as to determine whether a
 prima facie case for investigation or proceeding against
 the accused, as the case may be, is made out. The
 correctness of the allegations is not to be tested at this
 stage. 16. To commit an offence, unless the penal statute
 provides otherwise, mens rea is one of the essential
 ingredients. Existence of mens rea is a question of fact
 which may be inferred from the act in question as well 4 (2024) 10 SCC 527 34 as the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the
accused. As a sequitur, when a party alleges that the
accused, despite taking possession of the truck on hire,
has failed to pay hire charges for months together,
while making false promises for its payment, a prima
facie case, reflective of dishonest intention on the part
of the accused, is made out which may require
investigation. In such circumstances, if the FIR is
quashed at the very inception, it would be nothing
short of an act which thwarts a legitimate
investigation. 17. It is trite law that FIR is not an encyclopaedia
of all imputations. Therefore, to test whether an FIR
discloses commission of a cognizable offence what is to
be looked at is not any omission in the accusations but
the gravamen of the accusations contained therein to
find out whether, prima facie, some cognizable offence
has been committed or not. At this stage, the court is
not required to ascertain as to which specific offence
has been committed. 18. It is only after investigation, at the time of
framing charge, when materials collected during
investigation are before the court, the court has to
draw an opinion as to for commission of which offence
the accused should be tried. Prior to that, if satisfied, the
court may even discharge the accused. Thus, when the FIR
alleges a dishonest conduct on the part of the accused
which, if supported by materials, would disclose
commission of a cognizable offence, investigation
should not be thwarted by quashing the FIR. 19. No doubt, a petition to quash the FIR does not
become infructuous on submission of a police report
under Section 173(2) CrPC, but when a police report
has been submitted, particularly when there is no stay
on the investigation, the court must apply its mind to
the materials submitted in support of the police report
before taking a call whether the FIR and consequential
proceedings should be quashed or not. More so, when 35 the FIR alleges an act which is reflective of a dishonest
 conduct of the accused." (Emphasis supplied at each instance) 20. In the light of the judgments of the Apex Court, the

investigation cannot be stifled on the score that the matter is

purely civil in nature and the complainant ought to have

approached the civil Court. The issue is not purely civil in nature, it

has all the hues and forms of cyber crime and not a run on the mill

allegation. It is the allegation of downloading, copying, deletion of

source code, proprietary data and confidential digital assets. All

these are hues and forms of cyber crime and cyber crime

investigations are highly technical and complex involving forensic

reconstitution of data. Therefore, the projection of triviality of the

offence by the petitioner, contending that it is purely civil in nature,

cannot be acceded to, at this juncture. Investigation must ensue

and to enable it, the petition must necessarily meet its dismissal. 21. The petition stands dismissed accordingly. In the light of dismissal of the petition, pending applications if

any, stand disposed, as a consequence. SD/- (M.NAGAPRASANNA)
 JUDGE

Bkp
CT:MJ