Update (Sept 15, 20200): Sources told news agency IANS that ED is conducting fresh raids in Mumbai, Delhi, Gurugram, Lucknow and Kolkata at the premises of payment gateaways Paytm and PayU, in connection with the Chinese loan apps case.

This story was first published on September 5, 20200.

The premises of Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm and entities controlled/operated by Chinese persons were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on September 2, 2022 in Bengaluru. In the search operations carried out by the investigation agency, Rs 17 Cr were seized in Merchant IDs and bank accounts of certain “Chinese persons-controlled entities.”

Why it matters: Several FIRs about being harassed by Chinese loan-taking apps have been lodged in different parts of the country. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh had earlier said that according to an investigation, over 52 individuals have died by suicide “due to blackmailing by these apps” and “Chinese loan app companies have siphoned off Rs 500 crore from India through the hawala route.”

What is the Chinese loan app case?

In a series of incidents reported all over the country, several loan-apps have been accused of harassing their customers. These apps disburse loans of small amounts very easily, but often at “ exorbitant interests .” This Medianama report states how one such app charged Rs 2,300 for a loan of Rs Rs 3,700. The common thing between several such apps is its connection with China. The money collected via the app is siphoned off to China via payment gateways or crypto .

People took loans from these apps because it was easy to avail. But when a person was not able to repay, the loan company would harass the borrower in several ways. While using these apps, users are asked to give access to contacts, gallery , and other personal information. Once the loan-app had access to this personal data, the ways to harass were limitless.

After recovering (or extorting) the money, it was transferred to entities based in China.

Why did the ED raid Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm’s office?

ED carried out the searches under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002 after 18 FIRs were registered in Bengaluru against numerous entities/people related to these loan apps.

ED suspected these agencies of doing “illegal business through various Merchant IDs” and accounts held with payment gateways and banks, it said in a press release .

What is a Merchant ID ? A merchant ID is allotted to a merchant account, which is created by a merchant for the purpose of accepting debit and credit payments from customers.

What next?

Razorpay, Cashfree and Paytm have released statements saying they cooperated with ED and shared the relevant information that ED requested. The problem is not limited to a couple of FIRs in Bangalore in Karnataka but extends to Maharashtra , Madhya Pradesh , Telangana and more. ED says that the search is still ongoing, so more development developments on the case are expected.

Read more:

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event