Telegram CEO Pavel Durov has said that the company will improve its content moderation efforts, explaining that it has started the process internally and that he will share updates about the same soon. He acknowledged that Telegram’s “abrupt increase in user count to 950M caused growing pains” which made it easier for criminals to abuse the platform and added that he hopes that the events of August will result in making the platform and the social media industry safer and stronger.

Notably, Telegram has already begun making changes. It has updated its FAQ page in such a way that private chats on the platforms could now be within the scope of content moderation. One of the sections of the FAQ page titled, “There’s illegal content on Telegram. How do I take it down?” earlier used to state that all Telegram chats and group chats are private amongst participants. However, it now reads that “All Telegram apps have ‘Report’ buttons that let you flag illegal content” with the company’s moderators.

This comes after French authorities arrested Durov and initiated a formal investigation against him as a part of a probe into organized crime on Telegram. The authorities have charged him with a range of crimes including creating a platform to enable illegal transactions and refusing to communicate documents/information necessary for intercepting illegal activities at the request of competent authorities.

Durov said that French authorities had questioned him and told him that he was personally responsible for other people’s illegal use of Telegram. He also stated that this was surprising to him because Telegram already has an official representative in the EU that accepts and replies to EU requests, in a post on September 5.

He further said that French authorities had numerous ways to reach him to request assistance. “If a country is unhappy with an internet service, the established practice is to start a legal action against the service itself,” Durov explained. Instead, French authorities used “pre-smartphone era laws” to charge him with crimes that third parties had committed which the CEO emphasised was a “misguided approach” to tackling the situation.

Durov mentioned that the claims that Telegram is an “anarchist playground” are untrue. ” We take down millions of harmful posts and channels every day,” he said, adding that the company runs direct hotlines with non-government organizations (NGOs) to process urgent moderation requests faster. The company puts out daily transparency updates in the ISIS Watch channel. As per the updates from September 5 , Telegram banned 179 terrorist bots and channels banned on September 4, which takes the total number of blocked channels to 1115.

Durov mentioned that for social media companies, the balance between privacy and security is not always easy. “As a platform, you want your processes to be consistent globally, while also ensuring they are not abused in countries with weak rule of law,” he said, adding that companies have to balance compliance across regions while accounting for technological limitations.

“Sometimes we can’t agree with a country’s regulator on the right balance between privacy and security. In those cases, we are ready to leave that country,” Durov argued. He gave the example of Russia where the company chose to leave instead of handing the government its encryption keys. Similarly, the Iranian government blocked Telegram after it refused to comply with instructions to block the channels of peaceful protesters. “We are driven by the intention to bring good and defend the basic rights of people, particularly in places where these rights are violated,” Durov mentioned.

Besides the French probe, Telegram is also facing investigations in India and South Korea . Reports suggest that Indian authorities are investigating the company for extortion and gambling. Based on the findings of this probe, the Government could even decide to block the platform in India. South Korean authorities are looking into the spread of deepfake porn on the platform. They have initiated an investigation over allegations that the platform was “abetting” the distribution of sexually explicit deepfakes.

Also read:

STAY ON TOP OF TECH NEWS: Our daily newsletter with the top story of the day from MediaNama, delivered to your inbox before 9 AM. Click here to sign up today!

For You Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event

Read Reasoned by Nikhil Pahwa: How AI is changing our world Sign up for MediaNama's Daily Newsletter to receive regular updates Sponsor a MediaNama Event