1. The petitioner apprehending arrest in the FIR captioned above has come up
before this Court under Section 438 CrPC, 1973, seeking anticipatory bail. 2. As per paragraph 12 of the bail application and the reply, the accused has the
following criminal antecedents, however she has been acquitted in this case: 3. The facts and allegations are being taken from the FIR annexed by the petitioner,
and it's relevant portion reads as follows: 4. The petitioner's counsel prays for bail by imposing any stringent conditions and
contends that further pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the
petitioner and their family. 5. The State's counsel opposes bail and refers to the reply. 6. It would be appropriate to refer to the following portions of the reply, which read
as follows: 7. That Originally the FIR was registered under Section 347 IPC against Present
 petitioner only and later on offence under Section 306 , 34 IPC was added against 2 2 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 03-09-2024 23:01:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:114001 CRM-M-28957-2024 -3- present petitioner and her daughter Nitasha has also been implicated in the
 present case along with Ikara." 7. The allegations are general; at this stage, there is no specific allegation or
evidence of sextortion against the petitioner. 8. Given the above, the penal provisions invoked coupled with the primafacie
analysis of the nature of allegations and the other factors peculiar to this case, there
would be no justifiability for custodial interrogation or the pre-trial incarceration at this
stage. Without commenting on the case's merits, in the facts and circumstances peculiar
to this case, and for the reasons mentioned above, the petitioner makes a case for bail.
This order shall come into force from the time it is uploaded on this Court's official
webpage. 9. Given above, provided the petitioner is not required in any other case, the
petitioner shall be released on anticipatory bail in the FIR captioned above subject to
furnishing bonds to the satisfaction of the Arresting Officer, and if the matter is before a
Court, then the concerned Court and due to unavailability before any nearest Ilaqa
Magistrate/duty Magistrate. Before accepting the surety, the concerned Officer/Court
must be satisfied that if the accused fails to appear, such surety can produce the
accused. 10. While furnishing a personal bond, the petitioner shall mention the following
personal identification details: 11. The petitioner shall abide by all statutory bond conditions and appear before the
concerned Court(s) on all dates. The petitioner shall not tamper with the evidence,
influence, browbeat, pressurize, induce, threaten, or promise, directly or indirectly, any
witnesses, Police officials, or any other person acquainted with the facts and
circumstances of the case or dissuade them from disclosing such facts to the Police or
the Court. 12. Any observation made hereinabove is neither an expression of opinion on the
case's merits nor shall the trial Court advert to these comments. 13. A certified copy of this order would not be needed for furnishing bonds, and any 3 3 of 4 ::: Downloaded on - 03-09-2024 23:01:26 ::: Neutral Citation No:=2024:PHHC:114001 CRM-M-28957-2024 -4- Advocate for the Petitioner can download this order along with case status from the
official web page of this Court and attest it to be a true copy. If the attesting officer
wants to verify its authenticity, such an officer can also verify its authenticity and may
download and use the downloaded copy for attesting bonds. 14. Petition allowed in terms mentioned above. All pending applications, if any,
stand disposed of.