1. A person is identified by his name. His name may have no value to society but would be precious to the person concerned. A good name is better than great riches. Shakespeares Othello, Act III, Scene 3, 167: 2. Laws of defamation aims at protecting the name and goodwill of a person in society. 3. Backdrop facts giving rise to the present petitions are that in the year 2000 the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case against some employees of DDA who were allegedly involved in a housing allotment scam. Smt. Usha Ravichandran, Senior Personal Secretary to Commissioner (Personnel) was also accused of being involved in the scam. Thereafter, all the employees booked as accused by CBI including Smt. Usha Ravinchandran were suspended. (Usha Ravichandran was suspended on 16.11.2000) 4. Subsequently, on 15.6.2001 suspension of Smt. Usha Ravichandran was revoked and she was reinstated. It is pertinent to note that Smt. Usha Ravichandran was the only suspended employee to be reinstated. 5. On 4.5.2001, a news item appeared in the New Delhi edition of the newspaper Navbharat Times. English translation of said news item reads as under: 6. On 21.6.2001, a news item appeared in the daily edition of the newspaper Hindustan Times. Said news item reads as under: 7. On 24.6.2001, a news item appeared in the New Delhi edition of the newspaper Dainik Jagran. English translation of said news item reads as under: 8. Alleging that the afore-noted news items are defamatory and had directly or indirectly harmed and injured her reputation, Smt. Usha Ravichandran, chief protagonist of said news items filed three complaints under Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. 9. Pertaining to news item published in the Hindustan Times, complaint was filed against following three persons: 10. Pertaining to news item published in the Navbharat Times, complaint was filed against following two persons: 11. Pertaining to news item published in the Dainik Jagran, complaint was filed against following three persons: 12. Vide order dated 1.2.2002, accused in all the three complaints were summoned by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate to face trial for an offence under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code. 13. By way of above captioned petitions, the petitioners invoke the inherent jurisdiction of this Court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to quash the summoning order dated 1.2.2002. Details of the said petitions are as follows: 14. Principal contention advanced by the petitioners is that the said news items are neither defamatory nor have been made with reckless disregard for the truth. Counsel for the petitioners contended that true facts have been reported in the news items in question. It was further contended that it is the duty of a newspaper to expose corruption and bring to the notice of the general public the manner in which a public body is conducting its affairs. 15. Per contra, leraned Counsel for the complainant contended that the said news items are per se defamatory. Whether or not they contain true facts or were published in public interest is a matter of defense. That it is settled law that courts cannot consider defense of a party at the stage of quashing. Counsel relied upon following judgments in support of his argument: 16. Every individual has a right to protect his reputation. Disparaging and defamatory statements made about a person to a third person or persons without lawful justification or excuse are actionable in law. As observed by the Supreme Court in the decision reported as State of Bihar v. Lal Krishna Advani reputation is an integral and important aspect of dignity of every individual. The right to preservation of one's reputation is acknowledged as a right in rem, a right good against all the world. 17. But freedom of speech and expression are the foundation of all democratic organisations. Freedom of expression stems from the requirement that members of a democratic should be sufficiently informed. In the decision reported as Attorney General v. Times Newspaper Ltd. (1973) 3 All ER 54, it was observed that freedom of expression has following four broad social purposes to serve: 18. The right of the print media to publish news pertaining to matters of public concern is recognized as an integral part of freedom of expression. (See decisions of the Supreme Court in Virender v. State of Punjab AIR 1958 SC 986 and Sakal Papers v. Union of India ). 19. The fundamental objective of journalism is to serve the people with news, views, comments and information on matter of public interest in a fair, accurate, unbiased, sober and decent manner. It is the legitimate function of a newspaper in a democratic set up to act as the champion of a clean administration and sentinel of public interest, and as such a newspaper is within its right to expose and bring to the notice of the general public any lapse or malpractice in the working of a public authority including acts of nepotism and favoritism. 20. The law of defamation is a culmination of a conflict between society and the individual. On one hand lies the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India, on the other is the right of individual to have his reputation intact. How far does the liberty of free speech and expression extend And when does it become necessary for the law to step in to safeguard the right of the individual to preserve his honour. The law of defamation seeks to attain a balance between these two competing freedoms. 21. The classical definition of 'defamation' has been given by Justice Cave in the case of Scott v. Sampson (1882) Q.B.D. 491, as a false statement about a man to his discredit. 22. In the book The Law of Defamation, by Richard O'Sullivan, QC and Ronald Brown, 'defamation' is defined as a false statement of which the tendency is to disparage the good name or reputation of another person. 23. As per Section 499 , Indian Penal Code, offence of defamation consists of three essential ingredients namely: 24. In the light of above discussion, it has to been seen whether news items in question are defamatory or a fair report pertaining to the affairs of DDA, a statutory body charged with the planned development of Delhi. 25. Before proceeding to analyze the news items in question, I quote the well-known passage of Lord Shaw in the decision reported as Arnold v. King Emperor LR (1913-14) 41 Ind. App. 149. The freedom of the journalist is an ordinary part of the freedom of subject, and to whatever lengths the subject in general may go, so also may the journalist, but, apart from statute law, his privilege is no other and no higher. The responsibilities which attach to this power in the dissemination of printed matter may, and in the case of a conscientious journalist do, make him more careful; but the range of his assertions, his criticisms, or his comments, is as wide as, and no wider than, that of any other subject. No privilege attaches to his position. 26. Pertaining to news item published in 'Navbharat Times', relevant allegations in the complaint are as follows: 27. News item published in Navbharat Times centers around the facts that complainant was an accused in a housing scam being investigated by CBI. That a search was conducted at her office and her residential premises. That she along with 7 others employees were suspended. That she was the only suspended employee who was reinstated and that CBI had not given her a clean chit at the time of her reinstatement. 28. All these facts are a matter of record. What is reported in the said news item is statement of true facts. It is a fair and objective report of correct facts. There are no insuinations and innuendo. 29. In the complaint, complainant has stated that news item has falsely alleged that she was involved in the illegal allotments of DDA flats and misappropriated several crores of rupees, that she was working in Housing Department of DDA and that in the raid conducted by CBI officials huge amount of cash, documents etc were found in her house. 30. The said news item does not report that complainant was involved in the housing scam. It merely reports that complainant is accused of being involved in the scam, which is a true fact. The news item also does not report that cash, incriminating documents were found from complainant's house. The said news item reports that a raid was conducted by CBI at official as well as residential premises of various DDA employees including complainant and that huge amount of cash and documents were recovered in the raids. It is a fact that a raid was conducted at the complainant's house and certain articles were seized by the CBI. The news item does not single out complainant. Complainant is trying to twist the said news item. 31. Thus, news item published in Navbharat Times does not contain any defamatory imputations. It merely contains statement of true facts and is published in public interest. 32. The Supreme Court in the decision reported as State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal and Ors. considered in detail the ambit and scope of Section 482 of the High Court to quash the investigation/FIR/complaints. The decision lays down following 7 circumstances in which such a power could be exercised: 33. Petition pertaining to news item in Navbharat Times clearly falls in the category 1 and 3 enumerated in Bhajan Lals case (supra). 34. Insofar as news item published in Hindustan Times is concerned, allegations in the complaint reads as follows: 44. The said news item does not report that the complainant is involved in the housing scam. It merely reports that the complainant is accused of being involved in the housing scam which is a true fact. Further, the mere statement that the Commissioner (Personnel) played a key role in the reinstatement of the complainant is not a defamatory statement. 45. It is relevant to note that defamation can be caused by following two ways: 46. Innuendo are those expressions which are not actionable on their face, but which become so by the reason of the peculiar situation or occasion upon which the words are written or spoken. In simple words, innuendo means an indirect accusation. 47. News item published in 'Dainik Jagran' reports that the complainant checked certain examination papers; that checking of said papers by the complainant was outside her powers; that investigations revealed that there were lot of irregularities in the checking of said papers; that the matter is under investigation. 48. This part of the said news item is an innuendo as it is suggestive of the fact that complainant is a corrupt and dishonest lady. 49. Pertaining to news item published in ' The Dainik Jagran' petitioners have not disclosed the source/basis of alleged defamatory imputations. In their petition, it is merely stated that said news item is based upon true facts. 50. Matter pertaining to news item published in 'Dainik Jagran' thus require a trial in as much as persons responsible for publication of said news items will have to establish that news item in question was based upon true facts. 51. The next question which needs to be answered is whether any criminal liability can be fastened on the petitioners or in other words whether the petitioners are the persons responsible for publication of said news items. 52. In Crl. M.C No. 35/05, petitioner No. 1, Ms. Shobhna Bhartiya is the Managing Director, HT Media Ltd. petitioner No. 2, Mr. Vir Sanghvi is the Chief Editor, HT Media Ltd. and petitioner No. 3, Ms. P. Aruna Sharma is the reporter who wrote the news item published in 'Hindustan Times'. In Crl. M.C. No. 350/05, petitioner, Mr. Vineet Jain is the Managing Director, Benett Coleman and Co. In Crl. M.C. No. 2188/05, petitioner, Mr. Ram Kirpal Singh is the editor of Navbharat Times. In Crl. M.C. No. 3898-99/05, petitioner No. 1, Mr Sanjay Gupta is the Chief Editor of Dainik Jagran and petitioner No. 2, Mr. Naveen Gautam is the reporter who wrote the news item published in 'Dainik Jagran'. This is precisely how petitioners have been described by the complainant in the complaints. 53. Primarily, a reporter is responsible for his act of defamation. Then, vicarious liability is fastened on the printer, publisher and editor of the newspaper under the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1967 . 54. Section 1(1) of the Press and Registration Act, 1867 defines Editor as a person who controls the selection of the matter that is published in a newspaper. Section 3 stipulates that every book or paper shall legibly print on it the place of printing; the name of the printer and the name of the publisher. Section 5 stipulates that every printer and publisher of a newspaper shall make a statutory declaration before a competent Magistrate in the prescribed form. Section 6 stipulates regarding authentication of a declaration made under Section 5 . Lastly, Section 7 stipulates as under: 55. In view of provisions of Press and Registration Act, 1867 , particularly Section 7 unless the contrary is proved, the persons declared as printer, publisher and editor of the newspaper are presumed to be responsible for the contents of the newspaper. 56. Whether any person other than the Printer, Publisher and Editor can be prosecuted for a defamatory article 57. In context of afore-noted question, it is relevant to note the following judicial pronouncements. (iii) K.M. Mathew v. State of Kerela and Anr. 1992 CriLJ 3779:- In relation to prosecution of Chief Editor of a newspaper for publication of a defamatory news article, Supreme Court observed as under: (iv) Sardar Nihal Singh v. Arjan Das 1983 CrLJ 777:- A learned Single Judge of this Court was considering whether the Chairman and Executive Editor of a newspaper could be prosecuted for publication of a defamatory article. With reference to Chairman, it was observed as under: 58. From the afore-noted judicial pronouncements, legal position which emerges is as follows: 59. Vis., vis. petitioner Nos. 1 and 2 in Crl.M.C. No. 35/2005, petitioner in Crl.M.C. No. 350/2005 and petitioner No. 1 in Crl.M.C. No. 3898-99/2005, the complaints filed against them does not contain any such averments. General and vague has been made against these petitioners. 60. It is relevant to note following observations of the Supreme Court in the decision reported as S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla and Anr. : 61. Even otherwise, under the Indian Penal Code , no person can be prosecuted and punished for an offence committed by other person except in following 4 situations: 62. In the instant case, there is no averment that said news item was written and published at the instance of and in furtherance of common intention of all the petitioners. The averments in the complaints also do not make a case of abetment or conspiracy. 63. In the absence of necessary averments in the complaint against these petitioners, learned Magistrate was not justified in issuing summoning order against them. 64. Petitioner No. 3 in Crl.M.C. No. 35/2005 and petitioner No. 2 in Crl.M.C. No. 3898-99/2005 are the reporters of the alleged defamatory news items and therefore will have to face the trial. 65. The net result of the above discussion is summarized herein below: