ANIL KSHETARPAL, J. 1. These Appeals assail the correctness of the Judgement and
 Order dated 19.07.2022 [hereinafter referred to as „IJ‟] passed by the
 learned Single Judge [hereinafter referred to as „LSJ‟] in Writ
 Petitions which raised substantially similar challenges. Since, both the
 Appeals arise from the same lis and turn upon overlapping issues; they
 are with the consent of learned counsel for the respective parties,
 being disposed of by this consolidated judgment. However, for the
 sake of convenience and with the consent of the parties, the LPA
 590/2022 is being treated as the lead case to extrapolate our decision
 in both the Appeals. BRIEF BACKGROUND: 2. The dispute between the parties arises out of an allocation of the
 Chotia Coal Block in favour of M/s Prakash Industries Limited
 [hereinafter referred to as „PIL‟]. The primary allegation against PIL
 was that they have attained the allocation, though fraudulent activities
 resulting in financial gains leading to proceeds of crime. The
 allocation of the Coal Block was made in favour of PIL on
 04.09.2003. However, such allocation as on date stands cancelled by
 the Supreme Court via its judgment in W.P.(Crl) 120/2012 captioned Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 2 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Manohar Lal Sharma v Union of India [hereinafter referred to as
 „ML Sharma‟ ] , the said judgment declared the coal block allotments
 to be illegal and arbitrary. The Supreme Court further directed the
 Central Bureau of Investigation [hereinafter referred to as „CBI‟] to
 continue with its investigation into all such allotments. The dispute in
 the present round of litigation finds its genesis in two different
 chargesheets filed by CBI, on account of alleged misrepresentations
 by PIL in attaining such allocation, leading to multiple consequential
 proceedings which is being set out distinctly hereinbelow for easy
 reference. First Chargesheet and its consequential proceedings 3. The first chargesheet was registered by CBI on 17.11.2012 vide
 CC No. 3/2012 and charges were framed against PIL and other
 accused persons on the basis of First Information Report („FIR‟)
 bearing no. RC/AC2/2010/A0001 dated 07.04.2010 under Section
 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,
 1988 [hereinafter referred to as „PCA‟], and Sections 120-B , 420 , 467 , 468 , and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 [hereinafter referred to as
 „ IPC ‟]. The allegations in the said FIR broadly pertained to the alleged
 illegal and fraudulent allotment of coal blocks during the relevant
 allocation period and its subsequent financial gain. 4. Aggrieved by the filing of the first chargesheet, PIL approached
 this Court challenging its validity. This Court by way of an Order
 dated 05.09.2014, allowed the Petition and quashed the FIR and the
 consequential chargesheet. Thereafter, CBI preferred a SLP(Crl) No. Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 3 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 2756/2015, before the Supreme Court, assailing the order of this Court
 which is pending adjudication. Second Chargesheet and its consequential proceedings 5. Following the Supreme Court‟s direction vide judgment dated
 24.09.2014 and further investigations conducted, CBI registered a
 second FIR bearing no. RC 221/2016/E0035 on 02.12.2016 for
 offences under Section 120-B read with Section 420 of the IPC.
 Subsequently, CBI also filed a chargesheet bearing no. 01/2020 on
 23.01.2020 before the Special Judge. Thereafter, on 16.10.2021, a
 supplementary chargesheet under Section 173(8) of Code of Criminal
 Procedure, 1806 [hereinafter referred to as " CrPC "] was filed to place
 additional material on record. On the basis of the material placed on
 record, the Special Judge, on 22.10.2021, proceeded to frame charges
 against the listed accused, including PIL, in relation to the second FIR.
 Resultantly, PIL instituted a SLP (Crl) 656-657/2022, wherein the
 Supreme Court vide Order dated 06.05.2022 has stayed further
 proceedings before the Trial Court. 6. Consequent to the registration of the second FIR by CBI, the
 Directorate of Enforcement (Appellant herein) [hereinafter referred to
 as „Directorate‟] initiated simultaneous proceeding under Prevention
 of Money Laundering Act, 2002 [hereinafter referred to as „PMLA‟]
 on 03.03.2017 and registered ECIR No. ECIR/01/CDZO/2017,
 alleging generation of proceeds of crime by way of illegal coal block
 allotment and related fraudulent misrepresentation made to attain the
 allocation. Resultantly, on 01.12.2021, the Directorate issued a Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 4 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Provisional Attachment Order [hereinafter referred to as "PAO"]
 under Section 5(1) of the PMLA, attaching assets valued at
 approximately Rs. 227 Crores, as being proceeds of crime arising out
 of illegal acts connected to the allocation. 7. Aggrieved, by the said attachment, PIL filed a petition on
 22.12.2021 assailing the correctness of the PAO. Meanwhile, on
 28.12.2021, the Directorate filed an Original Complaint [hereinafter
 referred to as "OC"] before the Adjudicating Authority under Section
 5(5) of the PMLA seeking confirmation of the PAO. Subsequently, a
 Show Cause Notice [hereinafter referred to as "SCN"] was also issued
 under Section 8(1) of the PMLA. As a result, an amendment
 application was preferred by PIL to include the said proceedings
 initiated by the Adjudicating Authority as a matter for adjudication,
 which was allowed on 03.03.2022. However, the said order was then
 challenged in a Letter Patent Appeal („LPA‟) and was dismissed
 accordingly. 8. The LSJ vide the IJ allowed the Writ Petition, thereby setting
 aside and quashing the PAO and the consequential proceedings,
 holding that the allocation of a coal block cannot be construed either
 as a property or conferment of right in property and further holding
 the allocation, per se, cannot be recognised as representing proceeds
 of crime. 9. The Appellant, has now approached this Court in Appeal,
 seeking to challenge the correctness of the judgment. 10. This Court has heard learned senior counsel for the parties at
 length and with their able assistance perused the paper book. 11. Learned senior counsel for the parties have filed their respective
 written submission and have relied upon judgements thereof. The
 contentions of the parties are examined hereinafter. 12. The submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the parties
 pertain to both the procedural aspects including a preliminary
 objection regarding the maintainability of the Appeal as well as the
 substantive merits of the case. Therefore, this Court deems it
 appropriate to bifurcate the submissions under two distinct heads: 13. Learned senior counsel for PIL, while raising preliminary
 objection, has made the following submissions: 2024 SCC Online TS 18 2 (2019) 6 SCC 604 3 2017 (3) SCC 330 Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 7 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 If the reliance placed by the Directorate on ML Sharma is accepted, it
 would imply that once a PAO is issued under Section 5(1) of PMLA,
 the only available remedy against it would be to approach the
 Supreme Court under Article 136 of the COI. 13.6 The aforesaid interpretation is argued to effectively leave the
 Adjudicating Authority with no discretion to reject the confirmation of
 the attachment. It would render the confirmation process under Section 5(1) of the PMLA a mere formality, thereby mandating
 automatic confirmation of the PAO. This would result in the
 conferment of unchecked and unregulated power on an executive
 authority, which is impermissible in law and would also be in
 violation of Article 14 of the COI, which could never have been the
 intent and purpose of the Supreme Court while rendering its decision
 in ML Sharma judgment under Article 142 of the COI. Response on behalf of the learned counsel for the Directorate to
 the Preliminary objection on maintainability of Appeal 14. In support of his case, learned counsel has made the following
 submissions:- It is submitted that the reliefs sought included the issuance of writ, a
 relief that can only be granted in the exercise of jurisdiction under Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 8 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Article 226 of the COI. The prayer clauses are reproduced
 hereinbelow: Interim Prayers: 14.6 Further, it is the case of the Directorate that the PAO was
 pending confirmation before the Adjudicating Authority at the
 relevant time. Therefore, the LSJ ought not to have interfered
 especially when Section 8 of the PMLA provides a complete
 mechanism for adjudication and confirmation of such orders. II. SUBMISSIONS BY THE PARTIES ON THE MERITS OF
 THE CASE

 Submissions on behalf of the Directorate: 15. Before turning to the submissions advanced by the learned
 counsel for the Directorate, this Court deems it appropriate to
 reproduce certain paragraphs from the IJ which have been relied upon
 by the learned counsel for the parties during their submissions, which
 are as follows: 16. On the merits of the case, learned counsel for the Directorate
 has made submissions under four principal limbs, which are (i)
 alleged misrepresentations by PIL; (ii) Incorrect Application of
 Proceeds of Crime u/s 2(1)(u) and Section 3 of the PMLA; (iii)
 Incorrect Application of Property u/s 2(1)(v) under PMLA and (iv)
 Incorrect application of scheme of PMLA. i. Alleged misrepresentations by PIL

 16.1 In substance, the learned counsel for the Directorate submits
 that PIL consistently indulged in multiple misrepresentations and
 suppression of facts before various statutory authorities and
 government bodies in order to fraudulently attain the allocation letter.
 The details of alleged misrepresentations are as follows: and 22.01.2002 to Addl. certified; Monthly Actual annual
 Secy., MoC MS production production was
 25,000 tons (till 1,76,520 tons as on
 Sept 2001), 26.11.2001
 expanded to 35,000
 tons from Oct 2001
 → annual 4.25
 LTPA

 ii. Incorrect Application of Proceeds of Crime u/s 2(1)(u) and Section 3 of the PMLA
 16.2 At the outset, it has been submitted by the learned counsel for
 the Directorate that the LSJ has erred in ignoring the expression
 „process‟ under Section 3 of the PMLA. The term process is stated to
 mean ―a continuous and regular action or succession of actions
 taking place or carried on in a definite manner and leading to the
 accomplishment of some result." It has been submitted that as per the
 aforestated interpretation, Section 3 of the PMLA is sufficiently wide
 enough to include any process or activity connected with or leading to
 the generation of proceeds of crime. Therefore, on the basis of the
 above interpretation, it has been submitted that the extraction of
 84,42,725 MT of coal, valued at Rs. 9,51,77,34,115/-, the license for
 which was derived through fraudulent allocation of coal blocks from Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 17 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 2006-07 to 2014-15 and which is a scheduled offence would be
 covered under the ambit of Section 3 of the PMLA. 16.3 Controverting the position recorded at Paragraph No.83 by the
 LSJ, it has been submitted that the LSJ erroneously records that the
 ECIR No. ECIR/01/CDZO/2017 pertains to events that occurred upto
 04.09.2003, the date of allocation. However, the impugned PAO and
 SCN relate to properties acquired both prior to as well as post the date
 of allocation. 16.4 The attention of this Court has been drawn to Paragraph No.84
 of the IJ to submit that the LSJ has posed an incorrect question leading
 to an incorrect finding. The actual question as per the learned counsel
 for the Directorate is not whether the allocation in itself constitutes as
 proceeds of crime, rather the actual question is whether such
 allocation, having been obtained on the basis of the commission of a
 scheduled offence and which led to generation of proceeds of crime,
 makes such proceeds liable for attachment under PMLA. 16.5 Learned counsel for the Directorate also raised an objection on
 the finding at Paragraph No.86 of the IJ, wherein the LSJ recorded
 that "the allocation of a coal block cannot stricto sensu be construed
 either as property or conferment of a right in the property and as such
 cannot be recognized as representing the proceeds of crime".
 Additionally, objection has also been raised on the findings recorded
 by the LSJ in Paragraph No.99, wherein it is recorded that the
 Directorate has failed to base the impugned proceedings on any
 monetary gain that may have accrued as on 04.09.2003. Controverting Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 18 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 the aforesaid observations made by the LSJ, it has been submitted by
 the learned counsel for the Directorate that the LSJ failed to consider
 that the PAO categorically observes that the value of proceeds of
 crime is the coal that was extracted pursuant to the illegal allocation,
 which was attained on the basis of false and forged documents.
 Additionally, it has also been stated that the Directorate in the PAO
 has treated the extraction of coal amounting to 84,42,725 MT valued
 at Rs. 9,51,77,34,115/- carried out during 2006-07 to 2014-15 from
 the Chotia Coal Block, as the proceeds of crime and not the allocation
 letter alone. 16.6 Learned counsel for the Directorate, during his submissions, has
 pointed out the acknowledgment made by the LSJ in Paragraph No.86
 of the IJ, wherein it is stated, „that allocation per se cannot be
 recognized as proceeds of crime, but the subsequent and consequent
 utilization of that allocation, working lease granted and generation of
 revenue from such operations and investment of the wrongfully
 obtained monetary gain can be an allegation of money laundering‟.
 On the aforesaid premise, it has been submitted that the PAO reflects
 the intention of the Directorate to treat Rs. 9,51,77,34,115/- as
 generation of proceeds of crime, obtained from extraction of coal
 which was directly obtained as a result of criminal activity recognized
 as scheduled offence under sections 420 , 120B and 471 of the IPC. 16.7 On the basis of the above said submissions made, it is the case
 of the Directorate that as per the definition of proceeds of crime
 provided under PMLA, such proceeds can only be derived directly or
 indirectly as a result of criminal activity in relation to a scheduled Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 19 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 offence. Therefore, the proceeds of crime will only arise after the
 commission of scheduled offence and the scope of inquiry cannot be
 restricted upto the date of allocation alone. A similar position has also
 been given by the LSJ in Paragraph No.88 of the IJ. In this regard,
 reliance has been placed on Paragraph No.270 of Vijay Madanlal
 Chaudhary v Union of India10 , wherein the Supreme Court has held
 as under: allocation. iii. Incorrect Application of 'Property' u/s 2(1)(v) of the PMLA

 16.9 It is argued that the LSJ has incorrectly applied the definition of
 „property‟ under Section 2(1)(v) of the PMLA by holding that the
 allocation letter cannot be construed as property. It is the case of the
 Directorate that the allocation letter itself constitutes property
 involved in the offence of money laundering, as it not only confers
 rights, and thereby constitutes "proceeds of crime" and proceed
 further to grant the rights for extraction of coal, thereby also
 generating proceeds of crime capable of attachment. It has been
 submitted that the LSJ failed to recognize the settled law that if an
 order can sustain on any one ground provided under Section 2(1)(v) of
 the PMLA, then no interference is warranted by a Writ Court. 16.10 Reliance in this regard has been placed on the ML Sharma
 judgment to contend that the observations made by the LSJ in
 Paragraph No.88 are in teeth of the said judgment . On one hand, the IJ Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 21 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 states that the allocation cannot be construed as property; whereas on
 the other hand, the ML Sharma judgement makes it amply clear that
 allocation letter creates and confers a valuable right upon the allotee.
 Moreover, it is also argued that the fact of a pending investigation
 against PIL in respect of scheduled offences makes no difference to
 the legal position. Whether the Directorate treated the allocation letter
 itself as proceeds of crime or not, is immaterial, as the undisputed fact
 remains that the allocation was attained through fraud, leading to
 accrual of illegal financial gains obtained by utilization of said
 allocation. iv. Incorrect application of scheme of PMLA

 16.11 It is further submitted that the LSJ at Paragraph No.89 of the IJ,
 has erroneously observed that "money laundering involves only the
 washing of criminal proceedings and its conversion into property‖ as
 defined under Section 2(1)(v) of the PMLA. This narrow
 interpretation has been controverted by placing reliance on Paragraph
 Nos.268, 269 and 467 of ML Sharma (Supra), wherein the Supreme
 Court held that the word ―and‖ in Section 3 of the PMLA must be
 construed as ―or‖ to ensure that every individual act or process
 involving proceeds of crime, such as concealment, possession,
 acquisition, use, or projection as untainted, is sufficient on its own to
 constitute the offence of money laundering. This interpretation
 prevents evasion of liability where different persons undertake
 different parts of the laundering process, namely, one person
 possesses the proceeds and another projects it as untainted. The 2019 Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 22 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Explanation to Section 3 of the PMLA is merely clarificatory and
 reaffirms this understanding. 16.12 It is further submitted that the offence of money laundering is
 distinct and independent of the underlying scheduled offence and
 focuses solely on the handling of proceeds of crime. The investigative
 scope under the PMLA is not limited to the contours of the time
 period for commission of the scheduled offence as framed under the
 chargesheet by the predicate agency. 16.13 It is submitted that the LSJ, at Paragraph No.95, has further
 erred in recording that money laundering is a stand-alone offence
 which can survive even in the absence of an allegation that a person
 committed a scheduled offence. Such finding is stated to be contrary
 to law and facts of the case, to the extent that where the scheduled
 offence continues to exist in relation to the illegal allocation on the
 basis of forged documents, any proceeds of crime generated pursuant
 to such allocation would sustain the allegation of money laundering,
 since the scheduled offence continues to exist. Submissions on behalf of PIL 17. Per contra, the learned senior counsel for PIL, controverting the
 submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the Directorate, has
 made the following submissions: However, on the basis of the submissions made in the immediately
 preceding paragraph, PIL contends that, firstly, no proceeds of crime
 could arise in the cases related to the coal block allocation, since the
 said allocation stood terminated by the Supreme Court. Secondly, it is
 argued that even assuming a loss was caused to the exchequer, the
 same has already been compensated by PIL in accordance with the
 directions of the Supreme Court, through payment of an additional
 levy amounting to Rs. 249,06,03,875/-. It is also contended by the
 learned senior counsel for PIL that the calculation of Rs.
 951,77,34.115/- reached by the Directorate, representing the alleged
 proceeds of crime, is without any basis. 17.3 Additionally, the learned senior counsel for PIL has submitted
 that PIL has already paid a sum of Rs. 186,24,24,058/- to the
 Government by way of various cesses and duties from July 2006 to
 March 2015. Moreover, an amount of Rs. 680,93,44,083/- has been
 incurred by PIL towards development, operation and maintenance of
 the mine. All the three sums when aggregated, reflect a total
 expenditure of Rs. 1116,23,72,016/- incurred by PIL. It is the case of
 PIL that this aggregate amount is significantly higher than the alleged
 proceeds of crime, i.e., Rs. 951,77,34,115/-and as such there are no
 proceeds of crime liable to be attached as the alleged benefit is
 outweighed by the legitimate expenditure incurred by PIL. 17.4 The learned senior counsel for PIL, while controverting the
 submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the Directorate with
 respect to the proceeds of crime, has submitted that the definition
 under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA clearly describes the proceeds of
 crime as any property derived or obtained directly or indirectly, as a
 result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence. In the
 present case, the ECIR has been registered solely on the basis of
 description of scheduled offence as mentioned therein. In other words,
 the ECIR constitutes the first step in the initiation of proceedings
 under Section 3 of the PMLA, which in turn forms the basis for
 exercising powers under Section 5 of the PMLA. 17.5 Therefore, the argument advanced by the learned counsel for
 the Directorate, that powers under Section 5 of the PMLA can be
 exercised in relation to any property under Section 2(1)(v) of the
 PMLA, treating it as proceeds of crime under Section 2(1)(u) of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 25 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 PMLA, irrespective of whether the corresponding scheduled offence
 which may or may not be registered as an offence, is contrary to the
 scheme of the provision itself. In support of this contention, reliance
 has been placed on Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary (Supra), Indrani
 Ptanaik v Enforcement Directorate11 . 17.6 Controverting the submissions advanced by the learned counsel
 for the Directorate that the cut-off date of 04.09.2003 is of no
 relevance, learned senior counsel has relied upon Paragraph No.93 of
 the IJ, wherein the LSJ observed that "the utilisation of the allocation
 and consequential generation of alleged proceeds of crime are all
 issued which fall beyond the realm of the second chargesheet".
 Further, it is submitted that this finding was based on the submissions
 made by PIL, who contended that, in terms of the first FIR, the
 allegation against PIL was that 2,27,000 MT of coal had been diverted
 to the open market, resulting in the earning of illegal profits
 amounting to Rs. 22.7 crores. 17.7 Additionally, the attention of this Court has been drawn to a
 portion of the second chargesheet, which reads as follows: (2022) SCC OnLine SC 2167 Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 26 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Placing reliance on the aforestated, it has been submitted that the
 second chargesheet expressly limited the scope of investigation to
 events upto 04.09.2003, i.e., the date of allocation. Further, it also
 clarifies that all post-allotment and utilization aspects, including the
 extraction and diversion of coal, were already the subject matter of an
 earlier FIR and first chargesheet, which has since been quashed by the
 criminal bench of this Court, against which no stay is operational
 currently, as also recorded in the IJ. 17.8 Accordingly, the LSJ has rightly considered 04.09.2003 as the
 cut-off date, since the mining activity and coal excavation formed part
 of the earlier proceedings emanating from the first FIR. By attempting
 to include the post-allocation activities within the ambit of the second
 chargesheet, the Directorate is, in effect, attempting to import new
 offences and allegations from the first FIR into the second, despite the
 fact that the predicate agency itself has demarcated the scope of its
 investigation and such an approach is impermissible in law. 17.9 It is contended that on the basis of the aforestated facts and
 circumstances, PIL has sought quashing of the proceedings initiated
 under Sections 5 and 8 of the PMLA on the ground that proceedings
 under PMLA can only be initiated upon commission of an offence
 under Section 3 of the PMLA. Section 3 of the PMLA requires that
 the proceeds of crime, as defined in relation to a scheduled offence,
 must be projected or claimed as untainted properties. 17.10 It is submitted that since the record reflects that the second
 chargesheet, prima facie, did not reflect commission of offence under Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 27 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Section 3 of the PMLA, the proceeding under Section 5 of the PMLA
 could not have been initiated. It is further submitted that the allocation
 of the coal block was made on 04.09.2003, which was subsequently
 cancelled by the Supreme Court in the ML Sharma judgment. The
 subsequent possession, acquisition or use of the coal block allocation
 occurred after the date of allotment qua which no chargesheet has
 been filed. Therefore, the essential ingredient of proceeds of crime and
 the applicability of Section 3 of the PMLA are both absent in the case
 at hand. In light of these, it is contended that the Directorate couldn‟t
 have issued a PAO against PIL. ANALYSIS & FINDINGS: 18. Having heard the rival submissions advanced by the learned
 counsel for the parties and upon perusal of the record, this Bench has
 identified the following five issues: [Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that
 "proceeds of crime" include property not only derived or obtained
 from the scheduled offence but also any property which may directly
 or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity
 relatable to the scheduled offence;] (v) ―property‖ means any property or assets of every description,
 whether corporeal or incorporeal, movable or immovable, tangible or
 intangible and includes deeds and instruments evidencing title to, or
 interest in, such property or assets, wherever located;
 [Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that
 the term ―property‖ includes property of any kind used in the
 commission of an offence under this Act or any of the scheduled
 offences;] 3. Offence of money-laundering.--Whosoever directly or indirectly
 attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is
 actually involved in any process or activity connected with the
 1[proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition
 or use and projecting or claiming] it as untainted property shall be
 guilty of offence of money-laundering. [Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified
 that,-- (i) a person shall be guilty of offence of money-laundering if such
 person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or
 knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in
 one or more of the following processes or activities connected with
 proceeds of crime, namely:-- 4[(1)Where the Director or any other officer not below the rank of
 Deputy Director authorised by the Director for the purposes of this
 section, has reason to believe (the reason for such belief to be
 recorded in writing), on the basis of material in his possession, that-- (a) any person is in possession of any proceeds of crime; and (b) such proceeds of crime are likely to be concealed, transferred or
 dealt with in any manner which may result in frustrating any
 proceedings relating to confiscation of such proceeds of crime under
 this Chapter,
 he may, by order in writing, provisionally attach such property for a
 period not exceeding one hundred and eighty days from the date of the
 order, in such manner as may be prescribed: section or on the date of an order made under 3[sub-section (3)] of section 8 , whichever is earlier. (4) Nothing in this section shall prevent the person interested in the
 enjoyment of the immovable property attached under sub-section (1)
 from such enjoyment. Explanation.--For the purposes of this sub-section, ―person
 interested‖, in relation to any immovable property, includes all
 persons claiming or entitled to claim any interest in the property.
 (5) The Director or any other officer who provisionally attaches any
 property under sub-section (1) shall, within a period of thirty days
 from such attachment, file a complaint stating the facts of such
 attachment before the Adjudicating Authority.‖ 28. At the outset, it is deemed imperative by this Court to note that
 the LSJ, while dealing with the merits under Part (I) of the IJ, has
 framed the central question as, "whether allocation of coal is proceeds
 of crime". The same however in the opinion of this Bench is a wrong
 question framed by the LSJ. The findings rendered by the LSJ on the
 merits of the case, are based on a misconstrued core legal issue
 framed. 29. A perusal of the facts, in conjunction with the applicable
 statutory framework under the PMLA would show that actual question
 for consideration ought to have been, „whether the allocation letter
 constitutes ‗property' within the meaning of Section 2(1)(v) of the
 PMLA; and if so, whether the said property was subsequently used or
 dealt with in a manner that enabled PIL to derive any financial gain,
 thereby generating ‗proceeds of crime' as provided under Section
 2(1)(u) of PMLA‟. It is only in such circumstances that Section 3 of
 the PMLA could have been validly invoked. 30. However, the LSJ, having incorrectly identified the preliminary
 legal issue, then proceeded to conclude that the offence of money
 laundering under Section 3 of the PMLA was not attracted in the
 present case. This inference, in the opinion of this Court, strikes at the
 fundamental core of the issue raised before the LSJ, making the
 findings legally unsustainable. B. SECTION 2(1)(V) OF THE PMLA: WHETHER THE
 ALLOCATION LETTER CONSTRUES AS 'PROPERTY'? 31. The word „property‟ has been defined under Black's Law
 Dictionary13, as, "one which is peculiar or proper to any person;
 which belongs exclusively to one; in the strict legal sense, an
 aggregate of rights which are guaranteed and protected by the
 government.‖ It also goes on to define it as, "the word commonly used
 to denote everything which is the subject of ownership, corporeal or
 incorporeal, tangible or intangible, visible or invisible, real or
 personal; everything that has an exchangeable value or which goes to 13 Black‟s Law Dictionary by Henry Campbell Black, M.A.; Revised 4 th Edition by The Publishers
 Editorial Staff. make up wealth or estate. It extends to every species of valuable right
 and interest and includes real and personal property, easements,
 franchises and incorporeal hereditaments". 32. The definition of „property‟ as provided under Section 2(1)(v) of the PMLA, is inclusive and expansive, broadly including every
 description of asset provided thereunder, in form of a deed or
 instrument evidencing title or interest in such assets. To put it simply,
 the definition of „property‟ as provided under the PMLA is broad and
 inclusive in its approach towards what constitutes as property within
 the contours of the Act. This statutory definition is further supported
 by the constitutional jurisprudence of India, reiterating the
 understanding of what constitutes as property in India under Article
 300A of the COI, which recognizes property as inclusive of intangible
 interests and rights created through incorporeal assets. 33. Additionally, it is apposite to note that, in the contemporary
 world, dominated by a commercial landscape where economic
 transactions are shaped by intangible rights and digital assets, to
 construe the definition of „property‟ in a narrow or traditional sense,
 would not only amount to restricting the approach of the Court to the
 innovative nuances of the modern commercial world but also create an
 impediment for the judiciary to keep up its pace with the evolving
 jurisprudence. Therefore, it becomes essential to embrace a broader
 and more dynamic understanding of what constitutes „property‟. 34. In the modern era, as also evidenced by the usage of terms to
 define property under Section 2(1)(v) of the PMLA, intangible Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 36 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 property has assumed immense legal and commercial significance.
 The evolution of Intellectual Property laws now comprehends rights
 such as copyrights, trademarks, design rights, patents, licenses, digital
 assets and contractual entitlements, all of which are firmly recognised
 as valuable forms of property within the framework of common law. 35. In view of the aforestated, an allocation letter, especially when
 it confers upon the beneficiary an exclusive right to gain commercial
 advantage, enabling the beneficiary to derive economic gains, must be
 examined through this widened legal lens. 36. In the present case, the coal block allocation letter, although
 subsequently cancelled by the Supreme Court in ML Sharma (Supra),
 is an instrument evidencing a right or interest, namely, a right to
 obtain mining lease from the Government and extract coal through its
 utilisation. In accordance with, the definition of „property‟ provided
 under both Black‟s Law Dictionary and Section 2(1)(v) of the PMLA,
 such a right, once exercised and converted into economic gain
 becomes a form of property and the very foundation for what the
 Directorate has identified as proceeds of crime. Moreover, it is
 undisputed that the allocation letter was neither dormant nor kept in
 abeyance rather was utilised by PIL to derive substantial financial
 gains through coal excavation, leading to form the very foundation for
 the economic generation stated to be proceeds of crime by the
 Directorate. 37. Moreover, as explained in detail in the succeeding paragraphs,
 the allocation letter was one of the core essential elements to initiate Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 37 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 the offence of money laundering, whereby it acted as a conduit to
 derive the proceeds of crime. Further, the allocation letter was attained
 through misrepresentation and suppression of material facts, which if
 revealed truly would have led PIL to not be in the possession of the
 allocation letter, amounting to criminal activity relating to scheduled
 offences under the PMLA. Since, the allocation letter enabled the
 commission of money laundering, the letter is not only relevant but
 also constitutes property involved in money laundering under the
 scheme of the Act. 38. In view of the aforestated, the finding of the LSJ under
 Paragraph No.86, whereby the LSJ while relying upon the procedure
 for allotment of coal blocks as explained in the judgment of ML
 Sharma, has highlighted that the allocation of a coal block cannot be
 construed either as property or conferment of a right in property, falls
 short of nuanced understanding of the rights conferred upon the
 allotee through the allotment letter. The LSJ erred in coming to such a
 finding, specifically when in the present case the allotment letter
 leading to allocation of coal block is alleged to have been obtained
 through criminal means. The mere fact that subsequent statutory
 clearances are to be obtained by the allotee (PIL) does not negate the
 legal character of the initial allocation. These statutory clearances are
 expedited on a prima facie presumption that the allotment was
 attained legally. Against this backdrop, where the foundation of such
 allotment is vitiated by criminal activity, any and/or every benefit
 arising from it in favour of PIL, including the interest in the coal block
 arising therefrom, cannot be treated as legally inconsequential. 39. It is pertinent to note that, the act of allocation, in itself, may not
 constitute a complete offence; rather, it is the first step in a chain of
 subsequent events, carrying a cascading effect. These events begin
 with the procurement of the allocation, which is then followed by the
 actual extraction of coal, an act, if done on the basis of an
 unauthorised allocation, constitutes a separate illegal act. The
 allocation sets in motion the process through which the State
 Government is expected to act upon the recommendation made by the
 Central Government and facilitate the formalities flowing therefrom.
 This process leads to an initiation of series of administrative actions,
 which, if found to be tainted by criminality at the origin, ultimately
 results in usurpation of a public resource, which otherwise would
 rightfully vest in the State as a natural resource belonging to the
 general public at large. C. SECTION 2(1)(U) AND SECTION 3 OF THE PMLA: 40. Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA covers any property derived or
 obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of any
 criminal activity in relation to a scheduled offence and includes within
 its meaning, the „value of such property‟. As explained in the
 preceding paragraphs under Part B of this judgement, the definition of
 „property‟ is broad, which includes the tangible and intangible
 property and the property used in the commission of a scheduled
 offence. 41. Section 3 of the PMLA defines the offence of money laundering
 as an involvement in any process or activity connected with the
 proceeds of crime, including concealment, possession, acquisition, use
 and its projection as untainted or to claim it as untainted. Whereas,
 explanation (ii) of the said provision highlights that such process or
 activity connected with the proceeds of crime is a continued activity
 and continues till such time a person enjoys such proceeds by
 concealing or being in possession or acquiring or using or projecting
 or claiming it as an untainted property. 42. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the PMLA also
 highlights certain important recommendations made by the Financial
 Task Force held in Paris in 1989, which also forms the foundation of
 the present-day legislation of PMLA dealing with offence of money
 laundering in India, which are: product of crimes; rather it is a crime in itself and the illicit financial
 gains arising from the criminal activities forming a part of money
 laundering is subject to confiscation. To put it succinctly, the intent of
 the Act is not only to punish the accused found to be guilty under the
 offence of money laundering, but also to deprive them of the illegal Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 40 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 financial gains. The PMLA not only recognizes the illegal financial
 gains but also sustainably targets the conduct, in the form of serious
 economic offences, that results in the generation of such illegal
 financial gains. 44. The aforestated intent of the PMLA is also corroborated with
 the preamble of the Act, which defines PMLA as, "an Act to prevent
 money-laundering and to provide for confiscation of property derived
 from, or involved in, money-laundering and for matters connected
 therewith or incidental thereto". 45. Sections 2(1)(u) and 3 of the PMLA, when put together leads us
 to infer that Section 3 criminalises any process or activity connected
 with proceeds of crime, which in turn includes property derived or
 obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person, as a result of criminal
 activity, relating to a scheduled offence and the value of such
 property. 46. The aforesaid position has also been rendered by the Supreme
 Court in Vijay Madanlal Chaudhary Judgement and the relevant
 paragraph is reproduced hereunder: 47. The view taken by the Supreme Court was further reiterated in a
 recent judgment passed by the Supreme Court in Union of India
 through the Assistant Director v Kanhaiya Prasad14 , and the relevant
 paragraph is as follows: 406. It was urged that the scheduled offence in a given case may
 be a non-cognizable offence and yet rigours of Section 45 of the
 2002 Act would result in denial of bail even to such accused.
 This argument is founded on clear misunderstanding of the
 scheme of the 2002 Act. As we have repeatedly mentioned in the
 earlier part of this judgment that the offence of money
 laundering is one wherein a person, directly or indirectly,
 attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party
 or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with
 the proceeds of crime. The fact that the proceeds of crime have
 been generated as a result of criminal activity relating to a
 scheduled offence, which incidentally happens to be a non-
 cognizable offence, would make no difference. The person is not
 prosecuted for the scheduled offence by invoking
 provisions of the 2002 Act, but only when he has derived or
 obtained property as a result of criminal activity relating to or
 in relation to a scheduled offence and then indulges in process
 or activity connected with such proceeds of crime. Suffice it to
 observe that the argument under consideration is completely
 misplaced and needs to be rejected.‖ 48. In the present case, PIL misrepresented facts and figures in the
 process of obtaining coal block allocations, which typically attracts
 offences under Sections 420 and 467 of the IPC and Section 13(1)(d) of the PCA. Thereafter, the coal block allocation letter obtained
 through such criminal activity conferred valuable rights in favour of
 PIL which enabled the party to secure mining leases from the
 government and subsequently undertake coal excavation. As a result,
 it led PIL to obtain financial benefits in the form of profits earned
 from the extraction and sale of coal or through the usage of the Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 43 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 financial benefits to substitute or derive assets, which qualifies as
 proceeds of crime within the meaning of Section 2(1)(u) of the
 PMLA. 49. Subsequently, since any process or activity connected with such
 proceeds of crime including possession, use, concealment, layering,
 projection or claim as untainted, constitutes money-laundering, the
 aforesaid proceeds, having been possessed, used, concealed, projected
 such as untainted property by PIL, brings the case squarely within the
 scope of the offence of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the PMLA. Additionally, it is pertinent to note that explanation (ii)
 to Section 3 of the PMLA clearly states that the process of money
 laundering is a continuing offence linked to the existence of proceeds
 of crime. 50. The Supreme Court in Satyendar Kumar Jain v. Directorate of
 Enforcement15 , has clarified that the offence of money laundering is
 not limited to the final act of integration and remains ongoing as long
 as the proceeds are being dealt with. Accordingly, the continuing
 nature of money laundering, sustains the liability arising out of the
 PMLA for post-enactment activities involving such proceeds. 51. It is undisputed that the coal block was obtained fraudulently
 through misrepresentation, whereas the subsequent extraction of coal,
 generated revenue. As such, the initial illegality breaks the entire
 chain of financial transactions, including any expenditure incurred
 therefrom. PIL is attempting to apply a net benefit theory to 15 (2024) 6 SCC 715 Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 44 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 substantiate that the losses cancel out the gains, such an attempt is
 wholly misplaced in the context of established money laundering
 jurisprudence through statutes and various judgements of the Supreme
 Court. Such argument made by PIL, if accepted, would defeat the
 objective of the Act, which is to trace, identify and attach the property
 derived from a criminal activity, irrespective of subsequent financial
 performances. 52. Moreover, the source of funds stated to be spent by PIL remains
 unexplained, as such in the absence of a clear financial trail showing
 that the expenditure incurred by PIL was funded through untainted
 and legitimate means it cannot merely be presumed that the losses
 absolve the liability under the Act. In substance, the fallacious premise
 that "a negative plus a negative result in positive" cannot be invoked
 to defeat the legislative intent and mandate of the PMLA, since the
 statute focuses on the derivation of use of property obtained through a
 criminal activity and not on the eventual profit or loss incurred by a
 party. D. ATTACHMENT UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE PMLA: 53. Section 5(1) of the PMLA permits provisional attachment
 where the authorized officer has a „reason to believe‟ that a person is
 in possession of proceeds of crime and such proceeds are likely to be
 dealt in a manner, the result of which is likely to undermine the
 proceedings related to confiscation provided under the PMLA.
 However, the first proviso to Section 5 (1) of the PMLA, highlights
 that the order of attachment shall be issued following some formal Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 45 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 action taken, namely, registration of final report under Section 173 of
 the CrPC; complaint filed by an authorised officer before a court or
 magistrate; or in case of offence committed outside India, a similar
 report or complaint being filed under the municipal laws of the
 respective countries. 54. The statutory definition of proceeds of crime under Section
 2(1)(u) of the PMLA expressly includes, "the value of any such
 property", which enables the Directorate, subject to statutory
 prerequisites, to attach the equitable value where the specified
 property and its value obtained illegally by the person become
 untraceable or has been intermingled or dissipated. 55. In order to proceed with the order of attachment, the Directorate
 has to show a nexus with a scheduled offence, demonstrate the
 generation of proceeds of crime under Section 2(1)(u) and show that
 the accused participated in the process highlighted under Section 3 of
 the PMLA. The aforestated foundation must then be supported with a
 recorded "reasons to believe" with an identified equivalent value of
 proceeds before proceeding to adjudication under the PMLA, failing
 which attachment under Section 5 of the PMLA fails. 56. In the present case, the Directorate‟s evaluation of Rs. 951.77
 crores corresponding to the coal excavated during the financial years
 from 2006-07 to 2014-2015, reflects the financial gain derived by PIL
 pursuant to attaining the coal block allocation through
 misrepresentation. The quantification reached by the Directorate as
 also elaborated in the preceding paragraphs is not constrained to the Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 46 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 date of allocation, rather continues as long as the benefit from the
 tainted property subsists. In the aforesaid background, although it is
 the case of PIL that the quantification by the Directorate is baseless,
 no credible evidence to rebut the said quantification has been
 produced, thereby failing to discharge the onus of proof imposed upon
 it once the procedural presumption arises. 57. Therefore, once the Directorate has made a prima facie case,
 establishing the predicate offence, its nexus to the proceeds and reason
 to believe, the burden shifted to PIL to prove that the property is
 untainted. Accordingly, the Directorate, is justified in attaching the
 "value" of coal extracted under Section 5 of the PMLA, when the pre-
 requisites of attachment has been satisfied. E. RELEVANCE OF 04.09.2003: WHETHER THE LSJ
 ERRED IN RESTRICTING THE APPLICABILITY OF PMLA,
 PRE-ALLOCATION, IN VIEW OF THE QUASHING OF FIRST
 FIR AND CHARGESHEET? 58. The contention of PIL with respect to the relevance of the date
 of allocation, i.e. 04.09.2003 and the findings of the LSJ restricting the
 actions of the Directorate upto the given date falls short of merit.
 More specifically, when Section 5 of the PMLA enables the
 Directorate to proceed with an attachment of the properties of similar
 value, whereas first two provisos out of the three provisos to Section
 5(1) of the PMLA, highlights the statutory pre-requisite of initiating
 the attachment. While the first proviso provides for filing of a report
 under Section 173 of the CrPC or a complaint by an authorised officer
 for initiation of attachment, the second proviso provides for
 attachment on account of a „reason to believe‟ based on the material Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 47 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 available. These provisos form a jurisdictional precondition for
 issuance of the PAO; however, it does not restrict the scope of the
 Directorate‟s attachment to the time period covered in the said report
 or complaint. 59. To put it succinctly, the report under Section 173 of the CrPC,
 acts as a gateway triggering the requirement to initiate action under
 the proviso to Section 5(1) of the PMLA; but does not confine the
 extent of the inquiry of the Directorate and/or the duration of the
 proceeds of crime sought to be attached. Having said the aforestated,
 it is also important to highlight that there are two provisos attached to section 5(1) of the PMLA, each operating within its own independent
 domain. Therefore, it is important to bear in mind that the filing of a
 report under Section 173 of the CrPC is one of the triggering
 conditions for initiating attachment under first proviso to Section 5(1) of the PMLA, but not the only one, as under the statute, other
 conditions may independently warrant the initiation of attachment
 proceedings. 60. The finding of the LSJ limiting the jurisdiction of the
 Directorate strictly to pre-allocation events, i.e. 04.09.2003, falls short
 of the intention of the PMLA and overlooks the continuing nature of
 the offence of money laundering recognised under explanation (ii) to Section 3 of the PMLA, which highlights that the said offence persists
 as long as the proceeds of crime are possessed, used, concealed, or
 projected as untainted. It is to note that, while the second chargesheet
 filed by the CBI may have confined itself to events leading upto the
 allocation, the PMLA is a standalone statute empowering the Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 48 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 Directorate to investigate and act upon ancillary events as long as they
 are connected to the proceeds of crime. The Directorate is not
 confined to the timeframe or scope set out by the predicate agency. 61. Additionally, the LSJ has erroneously reached to a conclusion,
 since the first FIR and the consequential chargesheet were quashed by
 this Court, that there exists no criminal activity, consequently, there
 can be no proceeds of crime, thereby failing to attract the offence of
 money laundering under the PMLA. The LSJ further observed that
 Money Laundering is a stand-alone offence only in a sense that it has
 to be tried separately, and not that it can survive independently even if
 the charges in respect of the predicate offence has been quashed or if
 the accused has been discharged by a competent court with a finding
 that no offense is made out. Additionally, it has also been noted by the
 LSJ that the proceeds of crime, stated to be generated by PIL was
 already a part of the first chargesheet and therefore, the Directorate‟s
 power to initiate proceedings is only limited to 04.09.2003. 62. The aforesaid view taken by the LSJ is flawed on three
 premises, firstly, as elaborated in the preceding paragraphs, the
 Directorate‟s power to initiate proceedings is not constrained to the
 four corners of the CBI‟s report or limited to the findings of the
 chargesheet. Secondly, the judgement of the High Court, quashing the
 first FIR and chargesheet is currently under challenge before the
 Supreme Court and, therefore, remains subjudice. As such, the finality
 of findings on existence or non-existence of a predicate offence is yet
 to be determined. 63. Lastly, at this stage, it also becomes important for this Court to
 note that the ECIR was registered on 03.03.2017, subsequent to the
 second FIR dated 02.12.2016, wherein eventually a chargesheet was
 filed on 23.01.2020 following which a supplementary chargesheet was
 also filed u/s 173(8) of CrPC. Thereafter, the Special Judge framed
 charges with respect to the second FIR; however, the Supreme Court
 stayed the proceedings before the Trial Court. On the contrary, the
 first FIR and its consequent chargesheet were quashed by this Court.
 Against this backdrop, notwithstanding the stay of trial proceedings
 arising from the second FIR, neither the second FIR nor the
 chargesheet or supplementary chargesheet has been quashed by any
 competent court till date. Therefore, quashing of the first FIR does not
 affect the subsistence of the ECIR, particularly when the second FIR
 and its consequential proceedings remain pending. As such, when the
 registration of the second FIR and filing of supplementary/final report
 u/s 173 (8) of CrPC formed the basis of proceedings under PMLA, the
 quashing of the first FIR is not of much relevance because the second
 FIR and its chargesheet have not been quashed and continue to
 subsist. However, it appears that the LSJ did not advert to this fact and
 has overlooked this determinative consideration. 64. Therefore, at this stage, the LSJ ought not to have rendered
 conclusive findings premised on an outcome that lacks finality. More
 specifically, owing to the reason that, the quashing of the FIR and
 chargesheet was allowed at a preliminary stage, without delving into
 the examination of the facts, evidence and surrounding circumstances.
 Furthermore, when the LSJ invoked its extraordinary jurisdiction at Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 50 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 the stage of issuance of SCN, relying on the principles laid down in Whirlpool Corporation v. Registrar of Trademarks, it rather became
 necessary to exercise judicial restraint. Thus, the LSJ must not have
 drawn definitive conclusion on the existence or absence of predicate
 offence at such a nascent stage. 65. In view of the aforestated, the financial benefits derived by PIL
 post-allocation, such as coal extraction, commercial exploitation,
 profit generation, or any asset substitution, form part of the economic
 chain flowing from the alleged tainted allocation. These are squarely
 within the scope of the Directorate‟s jurisdiction under the PMLA.
 Therefore, the Directorate is legally justified in extending its actions
 beyond the pre-allocation phase, and the artificial cut-off date of
 04.09.2003 cannot be used to curtail its statutory mandate. CONCLUSION 66. For all the foregoing reasons, this Court has reached the
 conclusion that the issuance of the Provisional Attachment Order
 under Section 5 of the PMLA formulates a foundational executive
 action, the legality of which was challenged by PIL under Article 226 of the COI. Further, the coal block allocation letter dated 04.09.2003
 obtained through misrepresentation constitutes „property‟ under Section 2(1)(v) of the PMLA, whereas the illegal financial gains
 facilitated the generation of proceeds of crime under Section 2(1)(u) of the PMLA. Furthermore, PIL‟s continued possession and use of
 these proceeds established the offence under Section 3 of the PMLA.
 Moreover, the Directorate has satisfied the statutory pre-requisites Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 51 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59 envisaged under Section 5 of the PMLA justifying the issuance of
 PAO. 67. Keeping in view the above position of law, as well as the facts
 and circumstances of the present case, the present Appeals are
 allowed. the Impugned Judgment passed by the learned Single Judge,
 which is under challenge herein, is hereby set aside. 68. Resultantly, the cancellation of the PAO and its consequential
 proceedings by the learned Single judge are also set aside. 69. Accordingly, the present Appeals, stands closed. 70. The foregoing discussions were only for the purpose of
 adjudication of lis raised in the present Appeals and the same shall not
 be treated as a final expression on the submissions of respective
 parties and also shall not affect the future adjudication emanating
 before any other forum in accordance with law. ANIL KSHETARPAL, J. HARISH VAIDYANATHAN SHANKAR, J. OCTOBER 17, 2025
 s.godara/hr Signature Not Verified Signed By:JAI LPA 588/2022 and connected matters Page 52 of 52 NARAYAN Signing Date:17.10.2025 13:08:59